 
PEDRO PARAMO  
 
 
By Juan Rulfo  
 
 
    I came to Comala because I was told that my father, a man called Pedro Paramo, was living 
there.  It was what my mother had told me , and I promised I would go and  see him after  she died.   
I assure d her I would do that.  She was near death, and I would have  promise d her anything.  
“Don’t fail to go and see him ,” she told me.  “That’s what his name i s, although they sometimes 
called him something else.  I am sure he would want  to know you.”  The only thing I co uld do 
was t o tell her I would  do it and, after saying  it so often , it became such a habit that I continued 
repeating  it, even after I  managed to  remove my hands from  her lifeless hands.  
    Before she died she also told me:  
    “When you go , don’t  ask him for anything.  Demand that he gi ve you what is ours .  What he 
should have given me and never did …  Make him pay dearly, my son, for the way he has 
neglected us.”  
    “Yes, I’ll do  that, mother.”  
    I never  really  intended to fulfill my promise.  But now  I have started to dream about it  and be 
filled with illusions.  After that  a new world began to take shape , based  on the hope of a  man 
called Pedro Paramo, the husband of my mother.  And t hat’s why I came to Comala.  
    It wa s during the dog days o f summer , when the warm August air was filled with the rotten 
smell of the soapwort plants.  
    The road was rising and falling.   A man I saw told me,  “It rises or falls, depending on whether 
you’re coming or going.  For someone who is going, it rises; for  someone who is coming, it 
falls.”  
    “What did you say is  the name of that town you can see down there?”  
    “Comala, senor .” 
    “Are you sure it still is Comala?”  
    “Yes, I am sure, senor .” 
    “And why does it look so sad?”  
    “It’s the times , seno r.” 
    I had imagined how  it would look , based on my mo ther’s memories , and moments of nostalgia 
filled with longing .  She always long ed for Comala, to go back there.  B ut she never returned.  
Now I am coming in her plac e.  I am bringing the eyes which sh e used to look  at these things , 
because she gave me the  view seen  through her eyes: “ Just as you pass the  gate of Las Calimotes 
there is a beautiful view of the green plain, tinged with the yellow of  ripe corn.  From there you  
can see Comala  whitening the ground, and illuminating it during the night.”  And her voice was 
secret, almost silent , as if she were  talking to herself… My mother.  
    “And why are you g oing to Comala…, if I might ask ?” I heard the man say . 
    “I am goin g to see  my fat her,” I told him . 
   “Ah!” he said.  
    And we were silent again.  
    We were tra veling down hill, listening to  the bouncing trot of the burros, t heir eyes fill ed with 
the torpor of sleep iness , during the dog days of August.                       

    “They will be very happy to  see you,” said the man by my  side.  “The y will be happy because  
it has been  so many years since any one has come there.”   Then he added: “Whoever you are, 
they will be glad to see you.”  
    In the glow of sunlight the plain  seemed like a transparent pool , broken into vapors through 
which you could see a gray horizon.  And b ehind it  there was a line  of mountains , above which 
was an empty remoteness.  
    “And what can you tell me about your father , if I may ask?”  
    “I don’t know  him,” I said .  “I only know that his name is Pedro Paramo.”  
    “Ah!, you don’t say.”  
    “Yes, that’s what they told me his name was.”  
    Again I heard the mule -driver  say “Ah!”  I had met him in Los Encuentros , where there are 
sever al cross  roads .  I had been waiting there , until this man finally came.  
    When he got there I had asked him, “Where are you headed for?”  
    “I am going down that way, senor.”  
    “Do you know of a place called Comala?”  
    “That is where I am going.”  
    I followed him , trying to keep up with his rapid pace, until he must  have realized what I was 
doing  and he slowed down a bit.  After that  we were so close to each other  that our shoulders 
almost touched.  
    “I am also the so n of Pedro Paramo,” he  said to  me.  A flock o f crows flew through th e empty 
sky over us, screeching:  “Caw, caw, caw.”  
    After we rou nded the hills, we descended even further .  We had left the warm air up higher  
and we were sinking de eper and deeper into the  heat, without any wind to cool it.  Every thing 
seemed to be waiting for something.  
    “It’s hot here,” I said.  
    “Yes, and that isn’ t the worst of it,” the mule -driver  said.  “Take care .  You will feel it even 
more when we get to Comala.  That place sits on  the coals of the earth at  the very mouth of hell.  
I can tell you t hat many of those who die there come back to get a blanket after  going  to hell. ”   
    “Do you know Pedro Para mo?” I aske d him.  I dared to ask him that,  because I saw a look of 
confidence in his eyes . 
    “Who is he?” I asked again.  
    “A living malice ,” he answered me.  
    He pounded  his stick against burros for no re ason, since they were already  far enough ahead of 
us, guided by the descending road .      
    I felt the photograph of my mother in the pocket of my  shirt warming my heart , as if it were  
also sweating.  It was an old photograph, with rough edges , but it was the only one of her  I had .  
I had found it in the kitchen cupboard, hidden in a pot full of herbs: leaves of lemon balm, 
Castile flowers, and sprigs of rue.  I had kept it ever since then.  My mother never liked to have 
anyone take photographs of her; s he said that photos were a tool  of witchcraft , or black magic.  
And she seemed to be right, because hers was full of pinpricks , and the largest one w as at the 
center of her heart , where one might be able to touch her soul.  That was the photo that I had  
brought with me, thinking I could use it so  that my father would know I was his son.  
    Just then the mule -driver stopped and said to me: “Look there.   Do you see that  ridge that 
looks like a pig’s bladder?  Well, right behind it is Media Luna .  Now look over here.  Do you 
see the brow of that hill?  Look at it.  And now look in this direction.  Can you see that  other 
ridge that you almost can’ t see fr om this far away?  Okay, all that is part  of Media Luna,  from 

one side to the other .  As o ne says, all of the territory you can see with your  eyes.  And all that 
land belonged to him .  The truth is , our mothers gave birth to us in very poor circumstances , 
although we were sons of Pedro Paramo.  And the craziest thing is that he  even  had us baptized.  
The same thing must have happened to you, no?  
    “I don’t remember.”  
    “Well go fuck yourself !” 
    “What are you saying?”  
    “That we’re almost there, se nor.”  
    “Yes, I see it.  What happened here?”  
    “A roadrunner, senor. That’s what we call those birds.”  
   “No, I was asking why  that town  looks  so empty, like  it has been abandoned.  It loo ks like no 
one lives there. ” 
    “It’s not  just that it  seem s that way.  It is that way.  Nobody lives  here.”  
    “And Pedro Paramo?”  
    “Pedro Paramo died many  years ago.”  
 
 
    It was  the time when children  usually  played in the street s of the the town , filling the afternoon 
with their shouts , while the bl ack doors still reflect ed the yellow light of the sun.  
    At least , that’s what I had seen in Sayula yesterday  at this  same time.  And I had al so seen the 
flight of doves  rushing through the qu iet air , flapping their wings, as if they were chasing  away 
the da y.  They flew  over and perched on  the rooftops, while the shouts of the children spread 
around  and seemed to keep the sky blue. 
    Now I was  here in this town without any noise s.  I heard my footsteps on  the cobble  stones 
with which the streets were paved .  My hollow footstep s with  their sound echoing from the walls 
brightened  by the setting sun.  Then I was  walking d own the main street .  I looked at the empty 
houses; their battered doors covered with moss .  What did tha t fellow tell me this moss  was 
called?  “La Capita na, seno r.  A blight that  only waits for people to leave  to invade  the houses.  
And t hat’s what you will  see.” 
    Passing  by a side street , I saw a woman wrapped in a shawl who disappeared , as if she did not 
exist.  After that, I s tarted  walking again, and I kept looking at the empty doorways  until once 
again  the woman in the shawl crossed in front of me.   
    “Good evening,” she said to me.  
    I followed her with my eyes, and  I shouted at her:  
    “Where does Dona Eduviges live?”  
    She pointed with her finger:  “There, in the house  that is  next to the bridge.”  
    I realized then that her voice was made by human strands, that h er mouth had teeth, a mouth 
that opened and shut as she spoke, and that her eyes were like those of peo ple who live in this 
world.   By then i t had gotten dark.  
    She told me good evening once more.  And although the re were no children playing, no doves, 
no blue roofs, I felt like this place was alive.  And if I kept listening to the silence  it was be cause  
I was not used  to it; perhaps because my mind was  filled with voices.  
    Voices, yes.  A nd here where the air was thin, I  could hear  them  better.  They were  located 
inside one .  I remembered what my mother had told me: “There you will hear me better.  I will 
be closer  to yo u.  You will find that the sound  of my memories is  closer to you than that of  my 
death, if death has ever had a voice.”  My mother… when she was still alive.   

    I would have like d to tell her: “Y ou were mistaken about the place where  you lived .  You sent  
me in the wrong direction .  You sent me to  “where this is,” and “where that is .”   Now here I am,  
looking for someone who does  not exist.”  
    I found the house near  the bridge by following the sound of the river.  I went to knock on the 
door,  but m y hand only hit empty  air, as if the air had already opened it.  A woman was there.  
She said: “Come in.”  And I entered.  
 
 
    I had stayed there in Comala.  Before the mule -driver had left  me and gone  on ahead, he  said 
to me:  
    “I am go ing a bit farther, over there where you see the the top of those hills.  That’s where my 
house is.  If you  want to come, you will be welcome.  But if you wan t to stay here, that’s fine .”  
And that i s what I did, since tha t is why I came.  
    As he was leaving I asked him, almost shouting, “Wher e can I find a  place to st ay?”  
    “Look for Dona Eduviges, if she  is still alive .  Tell her I sent you .” 
    “And what is your name?”  
    I heard him say “Abundio,”  but by then  he was so far away I cou ldn’t  hear his last name.  
 
 
    “I am Eduviges Dyada.  Come in.”  
    It seemed like she had been waiting for me.  She told me she had everything ready , and I 
followed her through a long series of dark rooms that seemed to be empty.  But t hen I saw that 
was wrong since , when I got used to the darkness and th e narrow thread  of light that followed  us, 
I could see shadow s on both sides  of us, and I could tell  we were pa ssing through a narrow  
passageway , between different objects.   
    “What is that stuff there ?” I asked her.  
    “Just some odds and ends.  The house is full of  them; people used it to store their things before  
they left , and they never came back and go t them.  The room for you is in the back .  I always 
keep it ready , in case someone comes.  So you are her son?”  
    “Whose?” I answered.  
    “Of Dolore s.”  
    “Yes, but how did you know that?”  
    “She  told me you w ould come.  And in fact today,  that you would come  today.”  
    “Who, my mother?”  
    “Yes, her.”  
    I didn’t know what to think.  Nor did she tell me anything else to help me understand.  
    “This is your room,” she said.  
    It had no doors  except  the one we came through.  She lit a candle and I saw it was empty.  
    “There’s no place to sleep here, ” I said.  
    “Don’t worry about that.  You must be quite tired by now, and sleepiness is a good mattress.  
Tomorrow I’ll prepare your bed.  As you know, it is not easy to set things up in a hurry.   In order 
to do that you need to have  a warning, and your mother didn’ t tell me until  just now.”  
    “But my mother is already dead,” I said.  
    “Then that is the reason her voice was so weak, as if it  had to travel  a long way in order to 
reach me .  Yes, now I understand.  And how long has it been since she died ?” 
    “It’s now been seven days .” 

    “The poor thing.  She must have felt abandoned.  We made a promise that we would die 
together.  That each of us would go  to give th e other courage for the journey , if it was needed, in 
case there was some difficulty.  We were good friends.  Didn’t she ever talk about me?”  
    “No, never.”  
    “That is strange.  Of course , we were just young women  then, and she had just gotten married.  
But we were fond of each other.  Your mother w as so beautiful, so tender, and  everyo ne wanted 
to love her.   So she got a head start on me?   But you can be sure that I will catch up with her.  
Only, I know  how far away heaven is  from us ; but I know how to shorten the paths.  All you 
have to do is die, God willing, when one wants to, an d not when He has proposed.  Or  if you 
want, make it happen ahead of time.  But forgive me for speaking to you in this familiar way; I 
do it because I feel like you are my son.  Yes, many times I have  thought : ‘The son of Dolores 
should have been mine.’  Later , I will tell you why.  The only thing I want to tell you now is that 
I will catch up with your mother on one of the paths through eternity.”  
    I believed that woman was crazy.  And then I no longer believed a nything.  I felt like I was in 
some  distant world, and I let myself  be swept along  by the current .  My body felt weaker  and 
weaker , like  it had loosened its ties , and now anyone could have rung me out like a rag . 
   “I am very tired,” I said.  
    “Come and have a bite to eat.  A bit of something.  Anything you want.”  
    “I will.  I will later.”  
 
 
    The water was runnin g off  the tiles towa rd a hole in the sand on  the patio.  It made a drip, drip, 
and then another dri p, on top  of a laurel leaf that was bouncing  and spinning  in a crack between 
the bricks.  The sto rm had ended.  Now, once in a while  the wind shook the branches of the 
pomegranate tree , making drops of water cover the ground with bright splashes that then blurred 
together.  The chi ckens that had been  hunched down as if they were sleeping, suddenly shook 
their wings a nd rushed out into the patio where they quickly pecked the worms unearthed  by the 
rain.  Once the c louds were gone  the sun filled  the stones with light, and the air with  colors, 
swallowing  the water  on the ground .  “What are you doing in the toilet all this time, Boy?”  
    “Nothing, M ama.”  
    “If you keep staying in there  so long , a snake  is going to come and bite you.  
    “Yes, M ama.”  
    (I was thinking of  you, Susana, when we were up on the hill, flying kites in the wind .  Below  
us we heard the sounds of the town  while we were up above it on the top of the hill, and  the win d 
was pulling  on the kite string .  ‘Help me, S usana.’  And some soft hands pressed  against mine .  
‘Let out  more string .’ The w ind was making us laugh, connecting the view of  our eyes , while  the 
string was ru nning through our fingers until  it broke , making  a soft crack  as if it  had been broken 
by the wings of some bird.  And , up above our  own paper bird began falling in circles, dragging 
its tail of thread , until it disappeared  among  the green branches below it.  
    Your lips were moist,  as if they were  kissed by the dew.)  
    “I told y ou to get out of the toilet, S on.” 
    “Yes, M ama.  I’m leaving .”  
    (I was remembering you, when you were there, looking at me, with your aquamarine e yes.)  
    He raised his eyes and looked at his mother standing in the door.  
    “Why do you wait so long before you come out?  What are you doing there?”  
    “Just thinking.”  

    “Can’t you do that somewhere else?  It’s harmful to spend so much time in the toilet.  Besides, 
you ought to be doing something useful.  Why don’t you go and grind  some  corn for  your 
grandmother?    “Okay, M ama.  I’m going.”  
 
 
    “Gran dmothe r, I’ve come to help you grind  corn.”  
    “Sorry, we’ ve already  finished and  we’re going to make some cocoa .  But where have you 
been?  We have been looking for you ever since the storm began.”  
    “I was in the other patio.”  
    “What were you doing ?  Praying?”  
    “No,  Grandmother, just watching the rain.”      
    His grandmother looked at him with grey eyes th at were half yellow and seemed to be able to 
look at  what was in side you .” 
    “All right then;  now you can go and clean out the grinder.”  
    (‘There , hundreds of meters  above all the clouds, and farther away than everything  else, you 
are hidden, Susana.  Hidden in the immensity of God, behind His Divine Provid ence, where I 
cannot reach you , or see you, and where you cannot hear my words. ’) 
    “Grandmother, the grinder is n’t working, one of the blades is broken.”  
    “That Micaela;  she must have been grinding corncobs in it.   You just can’t get her to stop  
those bad habits.  But I suppose we’ll just have to put up with it.”  
    “Why don’t we  buy another on e?  This one is so old now  it doesn’t work most of the time .” 
    “Yes, you’re right.  But with the all expense s we had when we buried your grandfather, plus 
the amount we had to pay the Church, we haven’t got a penny left.  Nevertheless, we  will have to 
make a sacrific e and get another one.  It would be good if you would go and see  Dona Ines 
Villalpando  and ask her to give us until October.  We will pay her after we finish the harvests.”  
    “Okay, Grandmother, I’ll do that.”  
    “And while you’re there , tell her to loan us a sieve , and a pruning knife .  At  the rate that the 
plants are  growing, we can hardly get them into the barns.  If I had a big house with th e large 
barns I used  to have, I wouldn’t have to worry  about it .  But your grandfather left all that behind 
when we moved  here.  Well, that’s the way it is; things never turn out like you want them.  Tell 
Dona  Ines we will pay all we owe her when the harvest is finished.”     
    “Yes, Grandmother.”  
    There were humming birds this time of the year .  You could hear the sound of their wings 
whirring among the jasmines that were loosing their petals.  
    He walked over to  the shelf of th e Sacred Heart where he found twenty four cents.  He left 
four cents , and took twenty.   Before leaving , his mother stopped him:  
    “Where are you going?”  
    “To Dona Ines Villalpando to get a new grinder.  The one we have is broken.”  
    “Ask her  to give you a yard  of black taffeta, like this,” and she showed it to him.  “Tel l her to 
charge it our account.  
    “Okay, M ama.”  
    “On your w ay back buy me some aspirins; y ou’ll find the money in the jar in the hall.”  
    He found a peso.  He took the peso and left the twenty  cents. . 
    “Now I’ ll have enough to buy something else , if I want to,” he thought to himself.  
    “Pedro!” someone shouted at him.  “Pedro!”  
    But he was n’t able to hear it, since  he was already too far away.  

 
    That night it started to rain.  The sound  of rain  falling was heard for a long time. T hen he must 
have fallen a sleep,  because when he woke up there was only a light drizzle.   The windows were 
dark, and streams  of water were  flowing  down  like tears  on the other side of the glass .  “I was 
watching the drops illuminated  by lightning flashes, and with each breath  I sighe d, and each time 
I was thinking  I thought  of you, Susana.”  
    The rain had transformed  into a breeze.  He heard: “The forgiveness of our sins and the 
resurrection of the flesh.  Am en.”  I t was inside, where women were s aying the end of the rosa ry.  
They rose  up, they locked up  the birds, they closed the door, and they put out the light.  
    All that remained was the dim light , and the sound of rain , like the chirping of crickets…  
    “Why did n’t you go to say the rosary?  It’ s now nine days after t he death of your grandfather.”  
    There  was his mother in the doorway holding  a candle in her  hand.  Her shadow stretched up  
toward the roof,  very long, and spit in two.  The beams of the roof separated it into two different 
pieces.  
    “I am feeling sad,” she said.  
    She turned around,  and she blew out the candle.  Then s he closed the door and her sobs were 
heard, m ixed with the sound of the rain.  
    The clock in  the church s truck the hour, again and again, sounding as if  time had somehow 
contracted.  
 
 
    “Yes, I was almost your mother.  Di dn’t she ever tell you about that?”  Eduviges asked  
    “No, she only told me good  things.  I heard of you from  a mule -driver who brought me here.  
He said his name was Abundio.”  
    “Ah, Abundio.  So he still remembers me?  I used to gi ve him some thing for every traveler he 
would send  to my house.  We got along very well.  Now, unfort unately, everything  here has 
changed  because , since this place  has become so impoverished  no one thinks about us  any more.  
So then , he told  you to come to  see me? ” 
    “Yes, he told me to come and see if you were still here .” 
    “Well, I can only thank him  for that .  He wa s a good man, and very helpful .  He was the one 
who brought the mail, and he continued  doing  that, even after he beca me deaf.  I remember the 
terrible day when he had his misfortune .  We were very  sorry, because we all liked him.  He used 
to bri ng and take  our letters.  He told us how things were goin g there , in the other part  of the 
world, and h e surely must have also told them about us  too.  He wa s quite a talker.  But not  later; 
after his accident  he stopped talking.  He said he didn’ t feel like saying things he couldn’t hear, 
things that for him had no sound.  It all happened after he shot off  one of those rockets we use 
here to scare away water moccasins  very close  to his head .  After that he became mute, even 
though  he wasn’t  a mute, but  he never stopped being a good person.”  
    “ The man  I talked to could hear just fine .”  
    “Then i t mus t not have been him; besides, Abundio  has already die d.  He must have died, 
surely.  Do you see?  It couldn’ t have been him.”  
    “Yes, I agree .”  
    “Okay, getting back to your mother, I was telling you…”  
    Without stopping to listen to her, I  starte d to look at the woman who  was in front of me.   I 
thought she must have gone  through some d ifficult times.  Her face was  white,  as if she had no  
blood, and her hands were  withered and covered with wrinkles.  Her eyes were sunken so deep  

into her face they were almost  invisible.  She wa s wearing an old white dress, and  hanging fr om 
a cord  around her neck was an image  of Santa Maria del Refugio , with an inscription that said: 
“Refuge of Sinners.”  
    “…This person I  am talking  about  was a horse trainer at Ped ro Paramo’s ranch, Media Luna.   
He said his name was Inocencio Osorio.  However , we all knew him by the name  of Saltaperico , 
because he was so light and  agile in his movements .  My friend Pedro said he was not  even  fit to 
train colts, but he also had another occupation: that of ‘provo cateur.’  He was a  provoker of  
dreams.  That’ s really  what he  was.  And he tricked your mother , just like he tricked others.  
Among them, me.  Once I felt sick he came  and said to me : ‘I am going to massage you  to see  if 
that makes you feel better.’   And what  that amounted  to was squeezing you, first your fingertips, 
then your hands; after  that your  arms, and finally  fooling around with your legs  so provocatively  
that you soon  become angry.  And while he maneuvered , he woul d talk about your future.  He 
would go into a trance, rolling his eyes, invoking and cursing, covering you with globs of spit , 
like gypsies do.   Sometimes he was  stark naked, because he said it was what we wanted.  
Sometimes  he was right; he hit on  so many different things , that something had to give.”  
    “The thing is tha t this man Osorio went to see your mother  and he told her she should n’t sleep  
with any man , because  that night  the moon was full.”  
    “Dolores came to me in a big hurry, telling me that she couldn’t do it.  That it would be 
impossible for her to sleep with Pedro Paramo that night.  It was her wedding night, and there I 
was, trying to convince her not to believe Osorio, that he was only a duplicitous liar.   ‘I can’ t’ 
she told me.  ‘Please, you go in my p lace.  He won’t be able to tell,’”  
    “Of course  I was much younger tha n she wa s and didn’t have such dark hair.  But i t would not 
have been noticeable in the darkness.   But I still told her,   ‘Dolores, you have to go yourself. ’” 
    “At that time  your mo ther was a young woman , with humble  eyes.  If there was something 
really beautiful about your mother, it  was her eyes.  They were very persuasive .” 
    “Please go in my place,” she asked again.  
    “And I went.”  
    “I took  advantage  of the darkness;  and someth ing your mother wasn’t aware of  was that  I also 
liked Pedro Paramo .” 
    “I slept  with him, with pleasure and  desire.  I held him tight and pressed a gainst him,  but the  
revelry  the day before had left him so exhausted that  he went to sleep and snored all night  long.  
All he did was squeeze his legs  in between mine.”  
    “Before it got light  I got out of bed  and went to see Dolores.  I told her:  
    “Now it’s your turn.  This is now another day.”  
    “Wha t did he do to  you?”  she asked me.  
    “I don’t know  yet,” I said.  
    “The  year after that  you were born, but not to me,  even though that was something that almost 
happened.  Perhaps your mother never told you , because she felt  ashamed.”  
    “…Green prairies. Seeing the hor izon rise and fall as the wind moves the corn stalks, the 
afternoon rippling as the heavy rain falls, the color of the ground, the smell of alfalfa and bread.  
A town that smells like spilled honey…”  
    “She always hated Pedro Paramo.  ‘Dolores, didn’t I  tell you to fix my breakfast?’ And your 
mother always got up before dawn.  She lit the stove.  The cats woke up when they smelled the 
fire.  And she went everywhere , followed by the cats.  ‘Dona Dolores!’  
    “How often  your mother heard that call!  ‘Dona Dolores,  this is cold, this is no good. ’  How 
many times?  And although she got used  to this treatment , her humble eyes  grew  hardened .” 

    “…She  was not able to smell  any other odor except  that of the blossoms on the orange trees in 
that hot weather.”  
    “Then she began to sigh.   ‘Why are you sighing, Dolores? ’ 
    “She  had gone with him that afternoon.  He was in the middle of the field , watching a flock of 
thrushes fly over  them .  There was also a solitary vulture flying around. ” 
    ‘Why are you sig hing, Dolores?’  
    ‘I would like to be that  vulture so I could fly to  the place  where my sister lives.’  
    ‘Of course, Dona Dolores.  You  can go and  see your sister  right away .  Of course.   Let’s go 
back to the house so they can pack your bags .’ 
    “And your mother departed:  
    ‘I’ll see you later, Don Pedro.’  
    ‘Goodbye, Dolores.’  
    “But she didn’t see him later.  She left Media Luna for good.”  
    “I asked Pedro Paramo about her many times after that.  ‘She loved her sister more than me.  
She must be happy ther e.  Besides, she drove me crazy .  And I do not want to know  about her, i f 
that is what is worrying you. ’ 
    ‘But what will  they live on?’  
    ‘May God watch over  them.’  
    “…Make him pay dearly, my son, for the way he has neglected  us.” 
    “She told me you woul d come to see me, but since then  we haven’t heard anything from her .”  
    “Lots of things happened,”  I told her.  “We were in Colima  with aunt Gertru dis, who was 
taking care of us : ‘Why don’ t you go back to your husband?’ Getrudis  asked my mother.”  
    ‘Has he e ver asked me to return?  I’m not  going back  unless he  asks me to.   I came  here 
because I wanted to see you.  Because I cared about you, that’s why I came. ’ 
    ‘I understand how you fee l.  But now things have changed , and now it’s time for you to go. ’ 
    ‘As i f it were  up to  me!’” 
    I thought Dona Eduviges was listening to me, but I noticed th at her head was turned as though 
she was listening to something farther away .  Then I said:  
    “When are you going to take  a rest?”  
 
 
    “The day you left I knew I would never see you again.  You left  covered  by the red light of the 
afternoon sun, by the bloodstained twilight.  You were smiling.  You were leaving behind the 
town of which I had heard you say more than once : ‘I love it because of you, but I hate it for 
everything else, even for having been born there,’ Then  I thought, she will not ever co me back, 
she will never return. ” 
    “What are you doing here now?  Aren’t you  supposed to be  working?  
    “No, Grandmother.  Rogelio wants me to take care of his son.  I am taking him for a walk.  It’s 
hard to take care of two things  (the child and the telegraph)  while  he spends his time drinking 
beer in the pool hall.  Besides, he doesn’t pay me anything. ” 
    “You’re not there to earn money, but to find out when  you have learned something;  then you 
can be more demanding.  For now , you’re just an apprentice; perhaps tomorrow, or the day after, 
you will be the boss .  But for that you need to have  patience a nd, more than anything, humility.  
If they ask you to take care of  a child, do it for God’s sake .  You must resign yourself .” 
    “Let others resign themselves , Grandmother .  Resignation is not for me.”  

    “You and your ba d habits!  I’m afraid that they a re going to come back and haunt you , Pedro 
Paramo.”  
 
 
    “What are you listening to , Dona Eduviges?”  
    She shook her head, as if she had awakened  from a dream.  
    “It’s the horse of Migu el Paramo that is galloping out there on the road from  Media Luna.”  
    “Then someone is still living in Media Luna?”  
    “No, nobody lives  there now.”  
    “Then, what about the horse?”  
    “It’s on ly the horse that runs back and forth .  They were inseparab le.  It runs all over the place  
still looking for him, especially at this hour.  Perhaps  the poor thing is plagued by remorse.  
Since e ven animals realize when a wrong  has been done , isn’t that so?”  
    “I don’t understand.  I haven’t heard the sound of a horse.”  
    “You didn’t?”  
    “No.”  
    “Then it must  be my sixth sense.  A gift that God gave me; or perhaps a curse.  Only I know 
how much I have suffered because of  this.”  
    “It all began with Miguel Paramo.  I was  the only person  who knew what happened to him the 
night he died.  I was in bed when  I heard his horse coming by  on the way back to Media Luna.  I 
was surprised, because he never came bac k that early.  He usually arrived when it was beginning 
to get light.  He was going to see  his girlfriend in a town called Contla, some distance from her e.  
He left early , and was late coming back .  But that night he didn’t come back…  Do you hear it 
now?  I can definitely hear it once more .  The horse  is now coming  back  this way .” 
    “I don’t hear anything.”  
    “Then it must be me.  All right, as I was saying , the idea that he didn’t come back was just a 
rumor.  His horse had just  gone by when I heard someone tapping on my window .  God only 
knows if it was just  an illusion.  The truth is that something made me go to see who it was.  And 
it was him, Migue l Paramo.  I wasn’t surprised to see him , since he had sometimes spent the 
night in my house , sleeping with me, until he met that girl who swallowed  his brains.”  
 
 
    “What’s going on?” I  asked Miguel Paramo.  “Did she  leave you in the lurch?”  
    “No.  She still loves me,” he said.  “ The thing  is, I couldn’ t find  her.  The town had 
disappea red.  There may have been some fog,  or smo ke, or I don’t know what.  B ut I know now 
that Contla does  not exist.  I went even farth er than I planned, but I could never find it.  I came to 
tell you, because you understand me.  If I told a nyone else, they would say I was crazy, like they 
always say  I am.”  
    “You’re  not crazy, Miguel.  Y ou must be dead.  Remember , they told you the  horse was going 
to kill you someday.  Don’t forget that, Miguel Paramo.  Or maybe you did something  crazy, and 
that is  something else .” 
    “I only jumped over the stone wall that my  father  had ordered them to build .  I made my 
horse , Colorado , jump over it, in order to avoid going a long way  around  until I reached  the road.  
I know I jump ed over it and kept going but,  like I told you, after that there was nothing more 
than smoke, and more smoke.”  

    “Tomorrow your father is going to be very upset ,” I tol d him.  “ I feel sorry for him.  Now  go 
on, and rest in peace, Miguel.  I‘m grateful that you came to say goodbye to me.”  
    “And  then I closed the window.  Before it got light, a servant from Media Luna came to tell 
me: ‘ Don Pedro needs you; his son Migue l has died, and he wants you to come and  see him.”  
    “Yes, I know what happened,” I told him.  “ Did they say you should cry when you told me ?” 
    ‘Yes, Do n Fulgor told me I should do  that as I told you .’ 
    “Okay , tell Don Pedro I’ll come.  How long ha s it been since they brought him back?”  
    ‘Only  a half an hour ago.  If they had brought him sooner, they might have been able to save 
him.  Although, accordin g to the doctor who examined him , he had been dead for some time.  
We knew  something was wrong when  Colorado came back by himself and was so upset  that he 
woke everyone up.  You know how he and the horse cared for each ot her, and I think the horse 
suffered even more than Don Pedro.  It  hasn’t slept or eaten, and all it  does is r un around l ike 
someone who is broken and shattered inside .” 
    “Don’t forget to  shut the door when you leave.”  
    “And the servant from Media Luna went on his way.”  
    “Have you ever heard the way a dead person mourns?”  she asked me.  
    “No, Dona Eduviges.”  
    “It’s just as well you have n’t.” 
 
 
    The drops of rain  are falling in to the filter one af ter another.  After that  one hears  the drops 
falling into the pitcher.  One hears  noises:  one hears feet scraping the ground  as they walk , 
coming and going.  T he drops of rain keep on falling  without stopping .  The pitcher overflows, 
making the water run  over the wet ground.  
    “Wake up!” someone tells  him. 
    The sound of the  voice  is familiar .  He tries to think who it might  be, b ut his body slackens 
and he falls back  to sleep, sinking in to a deep slumber .  Two hands lift  the c overs, holding on to 
them, and  his body  still feels  their warmth, searching  for peace.  
    “Wake up!” someone says again.  
    The sound of the voice startles him, making  him rise up and open  his eyes.  He hears drops of 
water falling from the hydrant into the open pitcher.  F ootsteps are hea rd, and  weeping.  
    Then h e heard the weeping.  That woke  him even more : a soft, thin weeping that, perhaps 
because it was thin, was  able to slip through the thicket of sleep until it reached the point where 
the shock was able to startle him.  
    He rose  up slowly and saw the face of a woman  who was  leaning against the doorframe,  her 
body darkened by the night  as she was sobbing.  
    “Why are you crying, mama?” he as ked, beca use as soon as  he rose  up, he recognized his 
mother.  
    “Your father has died,” she told him.  
    And then, as if the source of her pain had opened  even more , she turned around , again and 
again, until he was  finall y able to grab her shoulders and stop the movement of her body.  
    Throu gh the door way one could see that it was getting light.  There were no stars, only a 
cloudy, gray sky still not illuminated by the sun.  A dark light, not like the start of day, but a s if it 
were the beginning of night.  
    Outside in the pati o he heard  the sound of  footsteps.  Quiet sounds.  And here  in the doorway 
was the woman, he r body blocking the light of day; between  her arms traces  of sky were visible,  

and under her feet were  trickles of light, as if the gr ound beneath her had been covered  with 
tears.   Then a sob, after that more weeping, and pain that made  her body writhe.  
    “They killed your father.”  
    “And who has killed you, mother?”  
 
 
    “The  air is clear, there is sunlight,  and there are clouds.  Up above the  sky is blue , and perhaps 
behind it there are  songs , and perhaps also voices…  In short, there is hope.  There is hope for us 
to heal our sorrow.”  
    “But not for you, Miguel Paramo.  You have died without forgi veness , and you will receive no 
mercy.”  
    Father Renteria turned around  and ended  the Mass.  He finished as quickly as possible and left 
without giving the final blessing  to the people who filled the church.  
    “Father, we w ant you to give us a blessing !” 
    “No!” he insisted, shaking his head.  “I will not do that.  He was a n evil  man, and he will not 
enter the Kingdom of Heaven.  God will punish me if I intercede for him.”  He said that trying to 
hide his hands, no t wanting to reveal how they  were sha king.  And he left.  
    The sight of the  body weighed heavily on the spirit of everyone there.  It was on top of a dais 
in the center  of the church, surrounded  by candles and flowers, and his  father who was standing 
behind it, waiting for the end of the service.  
    Father Renteria walked up next to Pedro Para no, trying not to touch his shoulder .  He raised 
the hyssop , sprinkling  the holy water higher and lower, murmuring something that might  have 
been a prayer.  After that he kneeled, and all the others kneeled with him.  
    “Have pity on your servant, Lord.”  
    “May he rest in peace, amen,” their voices responded.  
    And as  he began to feel his  anger again, he saw that everyone  was leaving the church, taking  
with them the body of Miguel Paramo.  
    Pedro Paramo came to  him and kneeled at his side:  
    “I know you hated him, Father.  And with good  reason.  The murder of your brother  which , 
according to rumors  was committed my son , and the case of your niece Ana who you said was 
violated by him; these offences , and the lack of respect he showed for you at times, are all 
motives that anyone could appreciate.  But let it go now, Father.  Forgive him  and pardon him, 
like God must  also have forgiven him.”  
    He put  a handful of gold coins on the prie -dieu and stood  up. 
    “Take this as a gift for your church.”  
    The church was now empty.  Two men waited in the doorway for Pedro Paramo, who joined 
them , and together they followed the  coffin that was being carried on the shoulders of four men 
from Media Luna.  Father Renteria picked up the coins and went to the altar.  
    “This is  yours  Lord ,” he said.  “He is able to  buy salvation.  You will know if this is sufficient .  
As for me, Lor d, I pl ace myself at your feet to ask for him whatever is jus t, or unjust, which is all 
we can ask for…  But I ask you, Lord,  to condemn  him.” 
    And he closed the sanctum.  
    He entered the sacristy and he went into a corner and began to cry, with shame and sadness, 
until his tears  were gone . 
    After that he said, “It’s all right,  Lord, you win.”  
 

    “Anita, do you know who they buried today?”  
    “No, uncle.”  
    “Do yo u remember Miguel Paramo?”  
    “Yes, uncle.”  
    “Well, that’s who it was.”  
    Ana bowed her head.  
    “You’ re sure i t was him, right?”  
    “I’m not sure, uncle.  I never saw hi s face.  He grabbed me at night  when it was dark.”  
    “Then how do you know i t was Miguel Paramo?”  
    “Because  he said so, ‘ I am Miguel  Paramo, Ana.  Don’t be afraid.’   That’s what he told me.  
    “But you knew he was the o ne who killed your father, righ t?” 
    “Yes, uncle.”  
    “Then, what did you do in order to get away from him ?” 
    “I didn’t do anything.”  
    They were both silent for a whi le.  One could hear the warm wind  blowing through the myrtle 
leaves.  
    “He told me that was why  he had come to see me: to apologize , and ask for my forgiveness.  
Without getting out of bed, I told him: ‘The window is open.’  And then he came in.  He st arted 
hugging me as if that was  his way of apologizing for what he had done.  And I smiled at him.  I 
remembered what you told me: that you must never hate anyone. I smiled to show him I didn’t, 
but afterward I realized he couldn’t see my smile , because I didn’t see him either, since it was so  
dark that night.  I only felt that he was  on top of me, and that he was beginning to do bad thing s 
to me.”  
    “I though he was going to kill me.  That’s what I thought, uncle.  And I even stopped thinking, 
so I would die before he had a chance to kill me.  But ev idently he did not dare to do that .” 
    “I knew that for sure when I finally op ened my e yes to see the light of day coming in through 
the window .  Before that I felt like I had ceased to exist. ” 
    “But you must have had some certainty.  His voice.  Didn’t you know him by his voice?”  
    “I didn’t know him by anything.  I only knew that he  had killed my father.  I had never seen 
him, and aft er that I never saw him  either .  I couldn’t have done that, uncle.”  
    “But you knew who he was.”  
    “Yes, and what he was like.  I kno w that now he must be in the depths of hell, because that is 
what I asked all the saints  with all my heart .” 
    “Don’t be sure of that, child.  Who knows how many are praying for him now.  You are all by 
yourself  here.  One voice  amid  thousands of others.  And among them, some that are much 
stronger than yours, like the v oice of your father.”  
    He was going to say to  her: “Besides, I have now forgiven him,” but he only thought  that.   He 
did not want to disappoint  the partly broken soul of  the poor girl.  Instead , he took her arm and 
told her:  
    “Let us give thanks to our Lord God because He has removed him from this earth , after he has 
caused so much harm.  A nd it doesn’t matter if He now has him in His heaven.”  
 
 
    A horse was galloped past  the intersection  where the main  road crossed the  road to Contla.  No 
one saw  it.  H owever, a woman who was waiting in the outski rts of the town said she had seen 
the horse running with its legs bent , as if it were  going to collapse .  She recognized the sorrel of 

Miguel Paramo and thought to herself: “That horse is going to break i ts neck.”  Then, she saw it 
had straightened its legs and , without slowing down, it was galloping with its neck turned 
around, as i f it were  frightened by something it had left behind.  
    Her story spread through Media Luna on the night of the burial , while some  men were resting 
after the long journey  they had made to reach the cemetery.  They were chatting like men often 
do before  they are going home to get some  sleep.  
    “Carrying that corpse  really hurt me,” said Terencio Lubianes.  “My shoulders are still sore.”  
    “Me too,” said his brother, Ubillado.  “My  bunions even got larger.  And then  his father  made 
us carry the coffin  on foot.  It’s not as though  it was a day to celebrate , right, Toribio?”  
    “They can say whatever they want.  I think it was time for him to die.”  
    After a while , there was even more gossip  from Contla.  It came  with the last wagon coming  
from there . 
    “Some  are saying that his soul is still  wanderin g around  out there .  They have seen it knocking 
on a woman’s window.  It looked just like him, with leather chaps and all.” 
    “And do you think Don Pedro, with the temper that he has, is going to  let his son keep chasing 
women?  If he knew that, I can  just imagine him saying: ‘ Okay, you’re dead now.  Stay there  in 
your gra ve, and leave that business to us.’   And if he ever saw him, I would bet t hat he would 
order him to go back  to the cemetery right away.”  
    “You’re right, Isaias.  That old man doesn’t pull any punches.”  
    “When I know  something, I tell it  like it is, ” and the wagon driver continued his journey.  
    Ther e were falling  stars.  They were falling as though  the sky was sprinkling  light.  
    “Look there,” said T erencio; “look at all the  sparkling  that’s up there”  
    “They’re just celebr ating the departure of  Miguel ,” Jesus chipped in.  
    “Don’t you think that’ s a bad sign?”  
    “For whom?”  
    “Maybe your sister is hoping for his return.”  
    “Who are you speaking to?”  
    “To you.”  
    “We’d better keep moving, boys .  We’ve been on the go for a long time , and tomorrow we 
have to start  early.”  
    And they vanished like shadows.  
 
 
    There were  still falling stars.  The n, finally  the lights in Comala were turned off, and  the sky 
took charge of  the night.  
    Father Renteria was twisting and turning in his b ed, without being able to sleep:  
   “It’s all my fault,” he said. “I’m afraid  to offend those who support me  because , the fact is , my 
job depends on them.  I don’t get anything from the poor, and prayers don’t fill your stomach.  
That’s the way it has been , and these are the consequences.  My fa ult.  I have betrayed those who 
care for  me, and have faith in me to intercede with God for them.  Bu t what have they gotten 
with their faith ?  Going to heaven?  Or the purification of their souls?  And why purify yo ur soul 
if, at the last  mome nt…  I can sti ll see  Maria Dyada , when she came to ask me to save her sister , 
Eduviges:  
    ‘She always helped her fellow creatures.  She gave them everything  she had.  She even offered  
a child, to everyone.  And she put him out  there , so that someone would recognize him as theirs; 
but no one was willing to do that.  Then she said: ‘If that’s the way i t is, I will be his father,  even 

though by accident I have  been his mother. ’  They took advantage of  her hospitality while  she 
tried not to offend people , or fall out with anyone.’  
    ‘But she committed suicide .  She went against the will of God.’  
    ‘She had no other choice.  She also did that out of kindness.’  
    ‘In the end she failed  at the final moment,’ that’s what I  told her.   She had done  so many good 
things toward  her salvation,  and then she lost them like that , so quickly!’  
    ‘But no, she didn’t lose  them.  She died with many sorrows.  And her  sorrow …  You  told us 
something about sorrow  I don’t remember .  She l eft us because of her sorrow .  She died , tortured 
by the blood that was choking her .  I can still see her grimaces,  and those  grimaces  were the 
saddest gestures a human being has ever made.’  
    ‘Perhaps  she was  praying a lot.’  
    ‘We all pray  a lot, Fath er.’ 
    ‘I mean maybe,  perhaps, with Gregorian Masses;  but f or that we need to have help, to ask for  
priests, and that costs money.’  
    “I can still see Maria Dyada, that poor woman, with so many children.”  
    ‘I don’t have money.  You know that, Father.’  
    ‘Let u s leave things as they are.  Let us believe in God.’  
    ‘Yes, Father.”  
    How could she look so courageous in that moment of resignation?  What would it have cost 
him to forgive  her, when it was  so easy to say a word or two, or a hundred, if that was necessary  
to save a soul?  What did he know about heaven or hell?  And nevertheless, lost in a town with 
no name, he knew many  who had deserved heaven.  There was a long list.  He started to go over 
the saints of the Catholic cemetery, beginning with those of the day: “Saint Nunilona, virgin and 
martyr; Anercio, bishop; Saints Salome, widow, Alodia or Elodia and Nulina, virgins; Cordula 
and Donato.”  And he went on.  And  then, when he began to feel sl eepy, he sat down on the bed: 
“I am going thro ugh a list of saints as if I were  seeing a herd  of goats .” 
    He went outside and looked up at the sky.  It was raining  stars.  He felt bad about that , because 
he would have preferred a quiet sky.  He heard th e sound of roosters crowing.  He felt the 
blanket  of night covering the earth.  The earth, “this valley of tears.”  
 
 
    “Go ahead, son.  Go ahead and do it,” Eduviges Dyada told me.  
   It was the middle of the night.  The lamp that was burning in the corn er began to waver, then it 
flickered and went out.  
    I heard the woman get up, and I thought  that she would go a nd get a new light.  I heard her 
footsteps get ting farther away, and I stayed there waiting.  
    When  the time passed and she didn’ t come back, I got up too.  I started walking, taking short 
steps, trying to feel my way through the darkness until I got to my room.  I sat down on the floor 
and tried to fall asleep.  
    I slept with fits and starts.  In one of the moments when I was awak e I heard someone shout.  
It was a pathetic shout, like that  of someone who was drunk: “ Ah  life, you don’t deserve me!”  
    I got up in a hurry  because it sounded like it was right next to me.  It could have been out in 
the street, but I heard it  here, a s though it was  stuck to the walls of my room.  After that 
everything was silent; only  a pin dro pping, and the sound  of silence.  
    No, it wasn’t possible to calculate the depth of the sile nce that produced that shout.  It  was as 
if the earth existed in a vacuum .  No sound; not  even of my breathing, or the beating of m y heart; 

as if the awareness  of sound had ended.  When the moment passed and I star ted to calm down , I 
heard the shout  again, and it continued , over and over , for a long time.  “Let me go;  it is the right 
of those who are  hanged  to protest .” 
    Then the door was opened wide.  
    “Is that you, Dona Eduviges?” I asked.  “ I have been hearing  shouts ; wha t’s going on.  I was 
really frightened.”  
    “No, my name is not Eduviges.  I am Damiana.  I knew you were here, so I came to see you.  I 
wanted to invite you to come and sleep in my house.  You would be able to rest better there.”  
    “Damiana Cisneros?  Aren’t you one of those who lived in Media Luna?”  
    “Yes, t hat’s where I live.  And that’s why it took me a while to get here.”  
    “My mother told me about someone called Damiana who took care of me when I was born.  
So then you…?”  
    “Yes, that was me.  I have known you since you opened your eyes.”  
    “I’ll go  with you.  T he shouts here have been frightening me .  Didn’t you hear what was 
happening?  It sounded lik e someone was being murdered.  Weren’t you able to  hear it? ”  
    “Perhaps it’s an ech o that is locked in there.  T hat room is where they hung Toribio  Aldrete a 
long time ago.  After that  they locked the door  until he rotted away, so that his body would never 
find rest.  I can’t imagine  how you w ere able to get in here, since there is no key to open the 
door.”  
    “It was Dona Eduviges  who opened it.  She told me it was the only room she had that was 
available.”  
    “Eduviges Dyada?”  
    “Yes, her.”  
    “Poor Eduviges.  She must still be grieving.”  
 
 
    “I Fulgor Sedano, a fifty four  year old man, a bachelo r who works  as an administrat or, who is  
certified to bring  and continue to press  charges, for  myself and for my own right s, do claim and 
allege  the following…”  
    That is what he  said when he brought  charges against  the actions of Toribio Alderete.  And he 
finished: “And let my accus ation be recorded  as justifiable .” 
    “Nobody can deny that you are quite capable, Don Fulgor.  I know that you can do things.  
And not because of those  who are  behind you, but because of you , yourself.”  
    He remembered .  That was the first thing Aldere te said after they had g otten drunk together, 
apparently to celebrate  what they had done:  
    “This matter is  going to  allow us to  cleanse ourselves, because that’s all it can do.  And you 
know that.  In fact, as far as yo u’re concerned you have done what they ordered you  and relieved 
me of having  to waste my tim e, because you had me worried about what ever it was.   Now that I 
know what it is , it makes me laugh.  You said  “justifiable. ”  Your master  ought to be ashamed  
for being so ignorant.”  
    He remembered.  They were in  the boarding house of Eduviges, a nd he had asked her:  
   “Say  Eduviges, d o you think you could let me have  the corner room?”  
    “Whatever you want, Don Fulgor.  If you want, you can have them all.  Are your men going to 
be sta ying here?”  
    “No, not more than one.  Don’t worry about us, and go have a good sleep.  Just give us the 
key.”  

    “I have to tell you, Don Fulgor,” Toribio Aldrete said.  “ No one would  deny how capable  you 
are.  But that son of a bitch  who is your boss  really gives me a pain.”  
    “He remembered .  That was the last thing he heard him say in his five senses.  After that he 
acted l ike a desperate scoundrel who was shouting .  “Apparently , that’s the type of power that’s 
behind  me.  Well I’ll be damned!”  
 
 
    He knocked on he door of the house of Pedro Paramo.  He thought about the first time he had 
done that  two weeks ago.  He waited  for a long time, just like he had done this  time.  And like he 
had done before  he looked at the black monkey that was hangin g from the lintel of the door.  He 
thought to himself: “What the heck !  They’ve added a new one; t he first  one was already faded ; 
this last one shines like silk, though it is no more than a stained rag.”  
    The first time he had waited so long that he though t the house was uninhabited.  This time he  
was about to leave, but then the figure of Pedro Paramo appeared.  
    “Come in, Fulgor.”  
    It was  the second time they saw each other.  The first time  he only  saw him, because little 
Pedro had just been b orn.  And now y ou could almost say it was still the first time.  And  here he 
was, talking to him  like an equal .  Look at him!  He was following him with long strides , 
waggling his legs.  “You w ill soon learn that I’ m the one who  know s.  You will realize  that, and 
and what I have in mind .” 
    “Sit down, Fulgor.  Here we can talk  more comfortably.”  
    They were in the corral.  Pedro Paramo leaned again the manger and waited.  
    “Why don’t you sit down?”  
    “I prefer to stand up, Pedro.”  
    “Okay, whateve r you like.  But don’t forget the ‘Don.’”  
    Who was this boy to talk to him like this?  Not even his father,  Don Lucas Paramo, had ever  
done that.  And suddenly this boy , who ha d just come to Media Luna  and didn’t know what was 
going on, was speaking to  him as though he were some  farmhand.  The heck with it, then!  
    “How are things  going?”  
    He felt like now wa s his chance.  “Now it’s my turn ,” he thought.  
    “Very bad.  There is nothing left .  We have sold every  last cow.”  
    He began to t ake out the papers to tell him how high the debt had risen .  He was about to tell 
him how  much  they owed,  when he heard  him say : 
   “To whom are we in debt ?  I don’t care about how much it is , only who  we owe .” 
    He gave him a list of names and then said:  
    “There is no way we can find  the money to pay them .  That is the problem .” 
    “And why is that?”  
    “Because your family used up everything.  They borrowed and borrowed, without paying back 
anything.  That is going to make it difficult for you .  I al ready said, ‘Eventually  they will use up 
everything .’  Well, now it’s gone.  However,  there is someone here who is interested in  buying 
the land.  And they would  pay well.  You would be able to cover the outstanding debts, and still 
have something left over;  although it won’t be very much.”  
    “Are you the one  who wants to buy ?” 
    “Why would you believe it was me?”  
    “I even believe fools.  Tomorrow we will start to settle our affairs.  We’ll begin wi th the 
Preciados.  You say it’s them we owe the most?”  

    “Yes.  And also th e ones we have paid less.  Your father always intended to pay them last.  I 
understand that one of them, Matilde, went to live in the city.  I don’t know if it was  Guadalajara, 
or to Colima.  And Lola, I mean, Dona Dolore s, is now the ow ner of all the land .  You know, t he 
ranch, in the middle of your land .  And it’s her who m we’re going to have to pay.”  
    “Tomorrow you are going to go and ask  for Lola’s hand .” 
    “But what makes you think she would want  to marry  me, since I am an old man?”  
    “You will ask her for me.  After all, she does have some charm.  Tell her I am deeply in love 
with her.  And ask her  if she is willing.  While you’re at it, tell Father Renteria to make the 
arrangements.  How much money wil l you need?”  
    “Not any, Don Pedro.”  
    “Well, promise her.  Tell her by doing that , she will be paid.  I am pretty sure  you won’t have 
any problems.  Do it right away , tomorrow.”  
    “And what about Aldrete?  
    “What does Aldrete have to do with it?  You mentioned the Preciados, the Fregosos, and the 
Guzmans.  Why are you bringing up Aldrete now?”  
    “It’s about the  boundari es.  He already tried to set them  up, and now he is asking us to  give 
him the fence pieces  he needs to divide the land. ” 
    “Leave that until later, and d on’t worry about fe nces.  There won’t be any .  The land is not 
going to be divided.  Think about it, Fulgor, even if you don’t understand it.  Go and arrange 
things with Dolores  right away.   Now , don’t you want to sit down?”  
    “Yes, I’ll sit down, Don Ped ro.  I say, I’m starting to enjoy dealing  with you.”  
    “You will tell Lola all these things , and that I lo ve her.  That is important.  I definitely love 
her, Sedano .  For her eyes, you know?  You will do this first thing tomor row.  An d I will red uce 
your duties as manager .  Forget about Media Luna.”  
 
 
    “How in the hell had that boy learned to contrive like that ?”, thought Fu lgor Sedano , as he was 
returning  to Media Luna.  “I never expected anyt hing from him.  He is useless ,’ my former boss , 
Don Lucas , told me.  A week good -for-nothing.  And I though t he was correct .  ‘When I die, 
Fulgor, go look for another job .’  ‘Yes, Don Lucas.’  ‘ I tried to send him to school , Fulgor,  to see 
if that would help  him earn enough to eat  and take care of his moth er when I’ m go ne.  But he has 
never decided to do  that.’  ‘You don’t deserve this , Don Lucas.’  ‘I’m not counting on anything 
from him, not even that he might take care of  me when I get old er.  He turned out wrong, believe 
me, Fulgor.’   ‘That’s really too bad , Don Lucas.’”  
    And now this.  If  he hadn’t been so attached  to Media Luna  he wouldn’t have come to see 
him.  He would have left without telling him.  But he  really cared about that place; all  of those 
bare fields , so overworked,  and still full of  furrows,  each time giving  us more of themselves…  
The beloved  Media Luna…  And its attachm ents.  “Come h ere, little land in Enmedio.”  He  saw 
it coming .  Sinc e it was already there.  What else can  a woman be used for, after all.  “Of co urse 
she can !” he said.  And he rocked his legs as he  walked out of  the gate of Media Luna .   
 
 
    It wa s very easy to be attracted to  Dolores.  Even if her eyes dazzl ed and broke up the rest of 
her face a bit .   
    “Forgive me for  blushing, Don Fulgor .  But I never thought Don Pedro would ever notice me.”  
    “He can’t sleep, thinking of you.”  

    “But  there are so many others he could  choose from.  There are lots of beautiful women there 
in Comala.  What will they say , when they find out?”  
    “He onl y thinks about you, Dolores.  A nd as for the others, there is no one  he cares about .” 
    “It gives me the shiv ers, Don Fulgor.  I would never have imagined it.”      
    “It’s just that he is very reserved.  Don Lucas, may he rest in peace, once told him  you were  
not worth y of him.  And he hid his feelings out of obedience  to his father .  Now that he is no 
longer here, there is nothing to stop him.  It was the first thing he thought about , although I have 
taken a long time to come and tell you,  because of m y duties.  Let’s say we schedule  the wedding 
for the day after tomorrow.  What do you think?”  
    “Isn’t that awfully soon?   I don’t have anything ready .  I need to order the trousseau.   I’ll write 
to my sister.  N o, it would be better to send someone to t ell her, but anyway I wouldn’ t be ready 
before the April  eighth.  It’s now the first,  so it’s too soon .  Tell him to wait just a few days.”  
    “He would like to have it right away .  As for the trousseau, we can take care of that.  Before 
she died, Pedro’s  mother wanted you to have her clothes.  That is a custom in the family.”  
    “But there’ s a reason I have to  wait.  It’s a woman’s thing, you know.  Oh, how embarrassed I 
am to have to say this, Don Fulgor.  You’re making me blush again.  It’s the time fo r my…  Oh, 
I am ashamed to say it.”  
    “What?  Marriage is not something to be ashamed of.  It’s a ma tter of love.  And  with that , 
everything else is taken care of.”  
    “But, Don Fulgor, you don’t understand.”  
    “I understand.  The wedding will be the day after tomorrow.”  
    And he  left her standing there with her arms extended, begging for eight days, nothing more 
than eight days.  
    “I must not  forget to tell Don Pedro —what a clever boy this Pedro is! —that he must  inform  
the judg e that the property is jointly  held.  ‘Don’t fo rget, Fulgor, tell him that tomorrow.’”  
    Meanwhile, Dolores hurried  to the kitchen  with a pitcher , to fill it with hot water.  “I am going 
to try and  make it  come sooner.  I hope it will be tonight.  But anyway, it will still last three days.  
There’s no other choice.  Oh, what happiness!  What happiness!  “Thank you, dear  God, for 
giving me Pedro Paramo.”  And she added: “Although afterward, he may hate me.”  
 
 
    “It is now requeste d, and agreed to.  The priest wants sixty pesos for leaving out the marriage 
banns.  I told him we would give it to him in due time.  He said he needs to set up the altar, an d 
that the paint is peeling off the dinning table.  I promised him we would order a new table.  He 
said you never go to Mass.  I promised you would go.  He said that since your grandmother died  
the tithes haven’t been given  either.  I told him not to worry about that.  So he  agreed.”  
    “Didn’t you ask Dolores for something in advance? ” 
    “No, Boss.  I didn’t dare.  That’s th e truth.  She was so happy that I didn’t want to risk taking 
away her enthusiasm.”  
    “Fulgor, you’re a baby.  
    (“Oh, come on!  Me  a baby?” he thought.  “After living for 55 years?  He has hardly  been 
born, and I am ju st a few steps away from death.”)  
    “I didn’t want to destroy her happiness.”  
    “In spite of that, you’ re still a baby.”  
    “Okay, Boss.”  

    “And next week  you will go see Aldrete and tell him he must  tear down the fence.  He h as 
encroached on the land of Media Luna.”  
    “But he measured the boundaries  carefully.  That is  my impression.”  
    “Well, tell him he was mistaken.  That he mad e the wrong calculations.  Tear  down the fences , 
if necessary.”  
    “But what about the law?”  
    “What laws, Fulgor?  From now on we are goin g to make the laws.  Is there  anyone working 
in Media Luna  that you don’t approve of ?” 
    “Yes, a few.”  
    “Well , send them to work with Aldrete.  Then raise a charge against him, accusing him of 
“usufruct ,” or whatever occurs to you.  And remind him that  now Lucas Paramo is dead , he has 
to make new arrangements with me.”  
    The sky was still blue.  There were a few clouds.  The wind was blowing up above, but down 
here it was hot. 
 
 
    He knocked on the d oor again with the wooden handle of his whip just  to be stu bborn, even 
though he knew that Pedro Paramo wouldn’t open the door until he felt like it.  Looking at the 
lintel of the door, he said to himself, “These black monkeys look nice , whatever it is the y are 
doing here.”  
    Just then the door opened , so he went inside . 
    “Come in, Fulgor.  Has the matter with  Toribio Aldrete been settled ?” 
    “Yes, boss, it has been taken care of. ” 
    “We still hav e the matter of the Fregosos, b ut we can  let that go for the moment.  Right now I 
am very engaged with my honeymoon.”  
 
 
    “This town is full of echoes.  It s eems like they are caught  in the cracks of the walls, or under 
the stones.  When you are walking, it seems like they follow  your steps.  You hear cracklin g,  
and l aughter.  Some laughs are quite  old, as though  they are tired of laughing.  And voices that 
are worn out from being used so long .  You hear  all this .  Some day the time will come when 
these sounds fade away.”  
    Damiana Cisneros was telling me  that, as we were crossing through the town.  
    “There was a time when,  during the night t here was a moment  when  I could hear the noise of a 
fiesta.  Those sounds came all the way to Media Luna.  I went th ere to see what was causing the  
racket, and all that I saw is  what we are seeing now.  Nothing.  Nobody.  The streets were as 
empty as they are now .” 
    “Then I didn’t hear it a ny more.  It’s because celebrating  is tiring.  That’s the reason why I 
wasn’t surprised when it stopped.”  
    “Yes ,” Damiana Cisneros said once more, “this  town is full of echoes.  They don’t  frighten me  
any more .  I hear the sound of dogs howling  and let them how l.  And , on days when the wind i s 
blowing, you can see it tearing  leaves from the trees, when here, like you see, there aren’t any 
trees.  There must have been sometime, or if not, where did those leaves come from?”  
    “And worst of all is when you hear people chatting, as if their voices were coming out of the 
cracks and, in spite of that , they are so clear you recognize them.  Once I happened to pass by  a 
funeral.  So I stopped to say the  Lords Prayer, and a woman came over to tell me:  

    ‘Damiana !  Pray to God for me, Damiana!’  
    “She loosened her shawl, and I rec ognized  the face of  my sister , Sixtina.”  
    ‘What are you doing here?’  I asked her.  Then she ran back and hid  herself among the other 
women.”  
    “In case you didn’t know it, my sister Sixtina  died when I was 12 years old.  She was the 
oldest.  And t here were sixteen of us  in our family , so you  can see how long  she has been dead.  
And there she is, still wandering around  in this world.  So don’t be frightened  if you hear echoes 
that are more recent, Juan Preciado.”  
    “Did you also tell my father I woul d be coming?” I asked her.  
    “No.  And by t he way, how is your mother ?” 
    “She died,” I said.  
    “She died , already?  What did she die of ?” 
    “I never knew .  Maybe from sadness.  She used to sigh a lot.”  
    “That’s not good.  Each sigh is like a pi ece of your  life that you are throwing away.   Anyway, 
so she’s dead?”  
    “Yes, maybe you should have known that.”  
    “And why would I know?  I haven’t know n anything for many years now.”  
    “Then, how is it  that you found me?”  
    “…”  
    “Are you alive, Damiana?  Tell me, Damiana!”  
    And I suddenly found myself alone in those empty streets.  The windows of the houses were 
all open  to the air , with weed stems  hangi ng out of them.  And  there were  more weeds  covering  
the worn adobe.   
    “Damiana!” I shouted.  “Damiana Cisneros!”  
    Only a n echo answered me: “…ana… neros…!  …ana… neros!”  
 
 
    I heard dogs barking  as if I had woken them up.  I saw  a man cross the street:  
    “Hey, you!” I shouted.  
    ‘Hey you,’ my own voice answered me.  
    And I was a ble to hear some women chatting , as if they were just around the corner . 
    ‘Look who’s coming there.  Isn’t that Filoteo Aréchiga?’  
    ‘Yes, it’s him.  Act like you don’t see him.’  
    ‘We ought to  get out of here.   If he is following us, it has to  be becaus e he is after one of us.’ 
    ‘That must be you.’  
    ‘I was thinkin g it was certainly you.’  
    ‘We can quit  running no w.  He stopped over there on that  corner.’  
    ‘Then it was n’t one of us he  was after, you see?’  
    ‘But what  if it turned out that it was you or me  he was after ?  How would that be?’  
    ‘Don’t have illusions.’  
    ‘After all, this is even better .  The folks around here say that he is the one who is in charge of 
trying to find girls for Pedro Paramo.  It’s good we got away from that.’  
    ‘Is that right ?  No, I certainly don’t want to have anything to do with that old man.’  
    ‘We’d better get out of here.’  
    ‘You’re right.  Let’s get out of here.’  
 

    It was night.  Some time after midnight.  And the re were  voices:  
    ‘…I’m telling you that if the corn does we ll this year, I wi ll have enough to pay you.  If things 
go ba d, you’ll just have to wait .’ 
    ‘I’m not trying to force you.  You already  know that I have been patie nt with you.   But you 
know this land is not yours.  You have been working someone else’s land.  How are you going to 
be able to get what you need to pay me?’  
    ‘And who says that this land is not mine?’  
    ‘They have declared that this land has been sol d to Pedro Paramo.’  
    ‘I have never had  anything to do with that man.  The la nd is mine.’  
    ‘That’s what y ou say.  But here they say it all belongs to him.’  
    ‘They better not come  and tell me that.’  
    ‘Look  Galileo, between you and me, I am fond of you.  I appreciate  the fact  that you are 
married to my sister.  And there is no doubt that you tr eat her good .  But you can’t tell me that 
you didn’t sell  this land.’  
    ‘I’m telling you that I never sold it to anyone.’  
    ‘Well, it belongs to Pedro P aramo.  He has made that very clear.  Hasn’t Don Fulgor come to 
see you?’  
    ‘No.’  
    ‘He’ll surely come to see you tomorrow.  And if not tomorrow, some day very soon.’  
    ‘Well , either  he kills me, or he dies.  But he won’t get what is not his.’  
    ‘Rest in peace, amen, brother -in-law.  Just in case there are  doubts.’  
    ‘You’ll see, I will still be here.  Don’t worry  about me.,  M y mother cut my hair for good 
reason, so I would look  tough.’  
    ‘Okay, till tomorrow, then.  Tell Felicitas that tonight  I won’t come to dinner.  I don ’t want 
them to say: ‘I was with  him the night before  it happened .’ 
    ‘We’ll save something  for you , in case you change your mind at the last minute.’  
    Then the thumping of hoofs was heard, along with the sound of spurs.  
 
 
    “…Tomorrow, when it gets light  you can come  with me, Chona.  I already have  the mules 
ready.”  
    “And what if my father dies with anger?  As old as he is…  I would never forgive myself if 
something happened to him because of me.  I am the only person he has to take care of him.  
There isn’t anyone else.  Why are you in such a hurry to steal me away?  W ait for a little while.  
It won’t be long before he dies.”  
    “You told me  the same thing  a year ago.  And you even criticized me because of my lack of 
enterprise  since , as you said,  you were  tired of it all.  I have prepared the mules, and they are 
ready .  Are you coming with me  or not ?” 
    “Let me think about it.”  
    “Chona, you don’t know how much you mean to me.  I can’ t stand to wait any longer, Chona.  
So either you’re coming with me…,  or you’re coming with me.”  
    “Let me think about it, all righ t.  We have to wait until he dies.  It shouldn’t be long.  Then I’ll 
go with you, and you won’t have to steal me away.”  
    “This is also what you said a  year ago.”  
    “So?”  

    “So I’ve had to hire the mules.  I already have them.  They are waiting for us.  Let him  deal 
with it.  You are beautiful.  You are young.  Surely there is some older woman who will be 
willing to come and take care of him.  Here there are lots of charitable people.”  
    “I can’t  do that .” 
    “Of course you can.”  
    “No, I can’t.   I’m sorry, don’t you know?  But he is my father , after all.”  
    “Then just forget about  it.  I’ll go and see Juliana , who is crazy about me.”  
    “That’s fine.  I won’t try to stop you.”  
    “So do you want to see me tomorrow?”  
    “No.  I don’t want to see you again.”  
 
 
    Noises.  Voices.  Murmuring.  Someone singing far away:  
 
My sweetheart gave me a kerchief  
with tears  from crying … 
 
    In falsetto.  As if it was women who were singing.   
    I saw the oxcart pass by.  The o xen were moving slowly.  The stones cracked under the 
wheels.  The men looked like they were asleep.  
 
    “…Every day at dawn  the town trembles  with the passing of oxcarts.  They came from 
everywhere, filled with saltpeter, ears of corn, and yerba mate.  The wheels squeal, ma king the 
windows shake, and wak ing people up.  It is the same time that the ovens are opened, and it 
smells like freshly baked bread.  And the sky can suddenly  be filled with thunder.  The rain falls.  
Spring arrives.  There you will b ecome accustomed to all the ‘sudden events,’ my son.”  
 
    The sound of e mpty oxcarts  was spreading through the silence of the streets, and becoming 
lost in the dark path of night.  And th e shadows.  As well as the  echo es of shadows.  
    I thought about go ing back.  Up there I could feel  the path where I had traveled, like an op en 
wound between the blackness  of the hills.    
    Then I felt someone touch my shoulders.  
    “What are you doing here?”   
    “I came to loo k for…” —I was going to say who it  was, b ut I hesitated —“I came to look for 
my father.”  
    “And why don’t you come in?”  
    I entered.  It was a house with part  of the roof caved in.  The tiles were lying on the ground.  
On one side  the roof had fallen the ground.  On the other side were  a man a nd a woman.  
    “Aren’t you ghosts ?” 
    And the woman smiled, but the man looked at me seriously.  
    “He’s drunk,” said the man.  
    “He’s only frightened,” said the woman.  
    There was a gas stove.  There was a bed  of bamboo , and there was a wicker cha ir where her 
clothes we re.  Because she was  as naked  as when she was born .  And the man too.  
    “We heard someone who was complaining and bang ing his head on our door.  And there you 
were.  What is it that has happened to you?”  

    “So many things have happened to me that I only feel like going to sleep.”  
    “We were already asleep.”  
    “Then, let’s  all sleep.”  
 
 
    Bu morning my memories had calmed  down .  From time to time I heard the sound of words, 
and I noticed the difference.  Because  I was sure the words I had heard before this  had no sound; 
I heard  them , but without sound, like those you hear in your dreams.  
    “Who can he be?” the woman asked.  
    “Who knows,” the man answered.  
    “Why did he want  to come here?”  
    “Who knows.”  
    “I think I heard him say something about his father.”  
    “I also heard that.”  
    “Maybe he’s lost.   Remember that time when those peo ple came here and said they had gotten  
lost.  They were looking for a place called Los Confines , and you told them you didn’t  know 
where it was.”  
     “Yes, I remember.  But let me get some sleep.”  
    “It’s almost  time.  The reason I am talking to you , is to wake you up.  You told me to remind 
you before dawn.  That why I did it.  Get up!”  
    “And why do you want me to get up? ” 
    “I don’t know wh y.  You told me last night I should wake you up.  You didn’t tell me  why.”  
    “In that case let me sleep.  Didn’t you hear what that man  said when he  got here?  That we 
should get some  sleep.  It was the only thing he said.”  
    Then  the voices stop talking  and their sound disappears , as if it was turned  off.  As if it was  
smothered.  Now no one says anything.  Like  a dream.  But then, after a while :  
    “He just moved.  If he hears us , he’s going to wake up.  And if he sees us here,  he is going to 
ask questions.”  
    “What questions can he ask us?”  
    “Well, he ’ll have to say something, won’t he?”  
    “Leave him alone.  He must be very tired.”  
    “That’s what you think?”  
    “Be quiet, woman.”  
    “Look, he’s moving.  Do you  see ho w he is writhing?  L ike something was shaking him 
inside.  I know, because it sometimes happens  to me.”  
    “What has happened to you?”  
    “That.”    
    “I don’t know what you’re talking about.”  
    “I wouldn’ t be talking, except that when I saw him beginning to move, I remembered the first 
time you did it .  How much it hurt me,  and how much I was sorry for it.”  
    “Sorry for what?”   “Of how I felt right after you did that  to me  and, although you didn’t want 
to believe it , I knew it was wrong.”  
    “And now you ’re telling me that ?  Why don’t you go back to sleep, and let me sleep?”  
    “You asked me to remind you.  That’s what I am doing.  For God’s sake, I’ m only doing what 
you asked me to do.  Come  on!  It’s n ow an hour since you should have go tten up.” 
    “Leave me alone, woman.”  

    The man seemed to go ba ck to s leep.  The woman kept on talking , but with a soft voice:  
    “It must already be dawn, because I can see light.  I can also see t hat man from here, and if I 
see him , it’s because there i s enough light to see him.  It won’t  be long before the sun comes out.  
Of course , that’s to be expected .  What if it turns out he is some sort of criminal , and now we 
have let him stay here ?  It doesn’t matter i f it was just for one night,  because  we still hid him.  
And that could be bad for us in the long run.  Just look at how he is squirming, as if he can’t get 
comfortable.  He is act ing like he has lost  his soul.”  
    Now it was daytime.  The light wa s replacing the shadows, sending them away .  The room 
where I was felt  warm ed by  the heat of slee ping bodies.  The light of dawn filtered through my 
eyelids.  I could almost feel the light.  Then I heard:  
    “He is thrashing around  like some  condemned person.  And he has  all of the signs of an evi l 
creature .  Get up, Donis, look at him!  He’s twisting and turn ing on the floor.  He’s drooling.  He 
has to be someone who has caused many deaths.  And you don’t even recognize it .” 
    “He must be some poor fellow .  Go to sleep, and let the rest of us sl eep.”  
    “And why should I go to sleep  if I’m not the least bit sleepy?”  
    “Then  get up, and go somewhere  where  you don’t upset everyone .” 
    “I’ll do that.  I’m going to turn on the light.  And when I do, I’ll tell that fellow to come here 
and get in bed with you, in the e mpty place I am leaving next to you .” 
    “Tell him to do that.”  
    “But I can’t.  I’m too afraid.”  
    “Then go and do what you were going to do, and leave us in peace.”  
    “I’ll do that.”  
    “Then  what are you waiting for?”  
    “I’m leaving .” 
    I heard the woman getting out of her bed.  Her bare feet tapped on the floor and then  stepped  
over me.  I opened my eyes and  closed them again.  
   When I finally woke up , the sun was shining.  Next to me was  a cup of cof fee.  I start ed to 
drink it and  found there were only a few swallows.  
    “That’s all the coffee we had.  I’m sor ry it’s so little.  We’re out of just about everything.”  
    It was the woman’s voice.  
    “Don’t worry about me,” I told her.  “You don’t have to worry ab out me.  I’m used to that.  
Where does one go  from here?”  
    “To where?”  
    “To wherever you can  go.” 
    “There are a lot of roads.  There’s one that goes to Contla; and  another that comes from there.  
Another that turns right toward the hills.  That  one you can see from here, I don’t know where it 
goes.”  And I saw her fingers pointing through the hole  in the roof  where it had caved in.  “That 
other one  over there goes to Media Luna.  Then  there is  one more  that goes through  all the land 
here, and goes the farthest away.”  
    “That’ s probably the one I came on.”  
    “Where does it come from ?” 
    “It comes from  Sayula.”  
    “How about that! I thought Sayula was on the other side  of us .  That’s what I  always thought.  
They say there are a lot of people there, isn’t  that so ?” 
    “Yes, like there is  everywhere.”  

    “And just think.  H ere we are  all by ourse lves, cut off  from the world  because we know so 
little about  the rest of life.”  
    “Where did your husband go?”  
    “He isn’t my husband.  He’s my brother, though he doesn’t want anyone to know that.  Where  
did he go?  Well, p robably looking for a runaway yearling calf that is wandering about out there.  
At least, that’s what he told me.”  
    “How long have you been  here?”  
    “Forever.  We were born here.”  
    “Then you must know Dolores Preciado.”  
    “Maybe he, Donis, knows her.  I know very few people.  I neve r go anywhere.  Here where I 
am is where I’ ve always been.  Well, not always; only since I h ave become a woman.  Since then  
I have locked myself away  because I’m afraid they will see me.  He doesn’t want to believe it , 
but don’t you think I am fright ening?”  And she walked over where were was some sunlight.  
“Look at my face!”  
    It was a perfectly ordinary face.   “What is it that you want me to see?”    
    “Don’t you see my sin?  Don’t you see t hese purple stains , like impetigo , that are  all over  me?  
And that’ s only on the outside. On  the inside I have become a sea  of filth .” 
    “And who could  see that, i f there is no one here?  I have gone through the whole town, and I 
haven’t seen anyone.”  
    “That may be  what you think, but there are  still a few .  Tell me , if Filomena doesn’t live here, 
and if Dorotea, and Melquiades, and old man Prudencio, and Sostene s, don ’t also  live here.  The 
thing is,  they spend all the ir time inside .  I don’t know what they  do during the day , but at night 
they lock themselves inside .  At that time  this place  is full of ghosts.  If you could just see the 
number  of souls that wander around through the street  at night.  As soon as it gets dark they start 
to come out.  And nobody likes  to see them.  They are so many,  and we are so few, that not even  
all the effort we make to pray  for them  helps cure  their sorrows.  Our prayers couldn’ t help so 
many of them .  Maybe part of the Lord’s Prayer w ould reach them, but that wouldn’ t do much  
good.  Then , our sins are in the way.  None of us who live are in the grace of God.  None of us 
can raise our eye s to heaven without fe eling they are tainted with shame.  And shame doesn’t 
heal anything .  At least that is what the bishop told me when he came here some time ago to give 
confirmations.  I went to  him and confessed everything:  
    ‘That cannot be forgiven,’ he told me.  
    ‘I feel shame .’ 
    ‘That’s not a cure.’  
    ‘Marry us then!’  
    ‘Leave each other!’  
    ‘I wanted  to say that life had put us together, locking  us in, one next to the other.  We were so 
alone here , and there was no one else .  And the earth  has to be popula ted somehow .  Perhaps you 
might  confirm  him, when he returns.’  
    ‘Leave each other.  That is all I can say to you.’  
    ‘But how will we live?’  
    ‘Like  others  live.’  
“And frowning, he mounted his mule  and left  without look ing back, as if he had left behind him  
a scene of damnation .  Then  he never came back .  And that’ s why this place is filled with  souls, a 
complete wasteland of peop le who d ied without pardon  and would never be able to receive it,  
certainly not from us.  Donis i s coming.  back   Do you hear him?”  

    “Yes, I hear him.”  
    “It’s him.”  
    The door opened.  
    “Were you able to find  the yearling?”  
    “I never  was able to find him , but I followed his trail  and I am pretty sure where he is.  Today 
during the night , I wi ll go and find him.”  
    “You’re going to leave me alone at night?”  
    “Yes, that could be.”  
    “I couldn’t stand that.  I  need to have you with me.  It’s the only way  that I can  feel ca lm at  
night.”  
    “Tonight I will go for the yearling.”  
    “I just found out,” I interv ened, “that your two are brother and sister .” 
    “You just fo und out?  I have known that much  longer than you have.  It would be best not to 
stick your nose into our affairs.  We don’t like it when people talk about us.”  
    “I said that just to show  that I understand .  Not for any other reason .” 
    “What do you understand?”  
    She went to his side, and lea ning on his shoulders, she said:  
    “Yes, w hat do you understand?”  
    “Nothing,” I said.  “Each time I understand less.”  And I added, “I would like to go back to the 
place  where  I came from.  There I would be able to take advantage of the little bit of da ylight 
that i s left.”  
    “It would be better if you stayed here,”  he told me.  “Wait until tomorrow.  Pretty soon it will 
be dark, and all the roads are rough.  You could get lost.  Tomorrow I will show you the way.”  
    “Okay, good.”  
 
 
    Through the part of th e roof that was open to the sky  I saw a flock of thrushes,  those birds tha t 
fly during the late afternoon  before t he night hides their flight .  Then  a few clouds  already broken 
apart by the wind  came to take away the daylight.  
    After that the evening s tar came out, and later , the moon.  
    The man and the woma n were no longer  with me.  They had gone out through the door that 
opens onto the patio, and by the time  they returned , it was already dark .  So the y didn’t know 
what had happened  while they were gone.  And this is what happened:  
    A woman  came in from t he street and  entered the house.  She was an old woman who was  
quite  short, as if her body had shrunk.  As she came in,  she looked around the room.  She may 
have seen me.  She probably thought I was sleeping.  She went right over to where the bed was 
and took a wicker basket out from under it.  She searched through it.  She put some sheets under 
her arm, and she walked away on tiptoes, so as not to wake me up.  
    I kept  still, holding my breath , looking in the other direction .  Finally, I turned  my head a nd 
looked back , where the evening star had joined with the moon.   
    “Drink  this!” I heard.  
    I didn’t dare to look and see who it was . 
    “Drink  it.  It will be good for you; i t’s orange blossom water.  I know you’re frightened , 
because you are trembling, and this will calm your fears.”  
    I recognized those h ands, and when I raised my eyes  I recognized the face.  The man who was 
behind her, asked me:  

    “Are  you feel ing sick?”  
    “I don’t know.  I am seeing things and people where maybe  you don’t see anything.  A woman 
was just in here.  You must have seen her leave.”  
    “Come here,” the man  said to the woman.  “Leave him alone.   He is probably  some kind of 
mystic .” 
    “We ought t let him sleep in the bed.  Look at how he is  trembling, he probably has a fever.”  
    “Don’t pay any attention to that.  These types act like that in order to call attention.  I knew 
one l ike that in Media Luna who said he was psychic.  But what he never foresaw was that he 
was going to die when his  boss foresaw  he was useless.  He must be one of that kind of mystic s.  
They spend their life traveling aro und ‘to see what Providence gives them’; but here they’re not  
going to find anyone who satisfies their hunger.  Do you see  now how he ’s stopped tremb ling?  
It’s because he is listening to us.”  
 
 
    It was as  if time had jump ed backwards.  Once a gain I saw the evening star next to the moon.  
The clouds  were  breaking apart.  The re were  flocks of thrushes.  And  suddenly  the afternoon was  
filled with ligh t. 
    The w alls were reflecting the afternoo n sunlight.  M y footsteps were walking over the 
cobble stones.  The mule driver was telling me: “Look for Dona Eduviges, if she is still living.”  
    Then I was back in the dark room  with a woman snoring by my side.  I noticed that her 
breathing  was uneven, as i f she were  caught in a dream, or rather, as if she wasn’t as leep and was 
only imitating  the sounds that a dream produces.  It was a bamboo  bed covered with sacks  that 
smelled of urine , as if the su n had never dried them out; the pillow was a rag that was w rapped 
around a pile of sticks , or a woole n cloth that was so stiff , or so s weaty, that it had become as 
hard as  a log of wood.  
    Next to my knee  I felt the naked legs of  the woman, and next to my face  I could feel her 
breath.  I sat up in the bed, leaning on that pillow that felt like adobe.   
    “Aren’t you going to sleep?” she asked me.  
    “I don’t fee l sleepy any more.  I have been sleeping  all day long.  Where is your brother?”  
    “He’s out there  on the road .  You  already heard where he had to g o.  He may not come back 
tonight. ” 
    “So then he still left?  In spite of  what you want ed? 
    “Yes.  And this time , he probably won’t come back.  That’s the way they all start.  I’m going 
to go this way,  but then they go another  way.  Until  they get so far away they don’t want to come 
back .  He ha s always wanted  to leave,  and I think now that you’re here his time  has come.  
Perhaps, without me  knowing  it, he left me with you so that you would take care of me.  He saw 
his chance.  That yearling calf was jus t a pretext.  Yo u’ll see, he’ s not going to return.”  
    I wanted to tell her: “I’m going to g o outside to get some fresh air  because I feel a bit 
nauseous,”; but instead I said:  
    “Don’t worry, he’s going to come back.”  
    When I got out of bed she told me:  
    “I left something on the stove in the kitch en.  It’s not much,  but it is something that can calm 
your hunger.”  
    I found a piece of smoke d meat and, over the flames , a few tortillas.  
    “They are all that  I was able to get  from her ,” I heard her say fro m over there.  “I exchanged 
them with my sister  for two clean sheet s that I had kept since the time  of my mother.  She must 

have come to g et them .  I didn’t want to say that  when Donis was here, but she must have been 
the woman you saw  who frightened you so.”  
    There was a dark sky full of stars.  And , next to the moon , was the brightest star of all.  
 
 
    ‘Don’t you hear me?’ I asked with  a low voice.   
    Her voice responded: ‘Where are you?’  
    ‘I’m here in your town, with your people.  Don’t you see me?’  
    ‘No, son, I don’t see you.’  
    Her v oice seemed to reach everywhere .  Then i t was  lost.  Far away from the earth . 
    ‘No, I can’t see you.’  
 
 
        I went back to the  middle of the  room where that woman was lying , and I said to her:  
    “I will stay here in the  same corner.  After  all, the  bed is just as hard as  sleeping on  the floor .  
If something happens, let me know.”  
    “Donis won’ t return,” she told me.  “I could see it in his eyes.  He was waiting for someone to 
come , so he could leave.  Now you will have to look out for me.  Or is it that you don’t want to 
take care of me?   Come here and sleep with me ” 
    “No, I’m  fine here.”  
    “It would be better for you to g et in bed.  Over there the bugs will bite  you.”  
    So then I went and  got in bed with her.  
 
 
    The heat made me wake up around midnight.  And I was  sweat ing.  The body of that woman 
made of earth, or wrap ped in a crust of earth, was leaking  as though it was melting in a puddle of 
mud.   I felt myself floating  in the sweat that was pouring out of her, and I felt like I didn’t have 
enough air to breath.  Then I got up.  The woman was still sleeping, and in  her mouth  there was  a 
sound of gurgling  that seemed like a death rattle.  
    I went o ut in the s treet to get some air; but the heat followed me and did no t go away.  
    Because there wasn’t any  air, only the night that was congested and silent, warmed by the  
midsummer heat  of august.  
    There  was still no air.   I had to suc k in the air that came out of my mouth, holding it in my 
hands before it could flow away.  I felt it come and go, each time  it was  less, until became so t hin 
that it slipped away forever  through my fingers.   
    I really mean forever.  
    I remember having seen something  like foamy clouds floating  around  over my head,  then 
drenching me wit h that foam , and blocking everything  out with its darkness.  That was the last 
thing I saw.  
 
 
    “Are you trying to tell me you died because there was no air , Juan Preciado?  I found you in 
the pla za, quite far f rom the house of Donis  when  he was right  next to me , telling me you were 
pretending to be dead .  Between th e two of us we dragged you to the front door, very tense and 
stiff, like those  who have died out of fear .  If there was no air  that night , like you said, we  would 
not have been able  to take  you with us in order to bury you.  Now as you see, we did bury you.”  

    “You’ re right, Doroteo .  Did you say your name is Doroteo?”  
    “It doesn’t matter .  Although my name was Dorotea.  But it doesn’t matter.”  
    “Tha t’s right, Dorotea.  It must have  been  the murmurs that killed me.”  
 
    “There you will find my favorite place.  The place that  I wanted, where dreams protected  me.  
My town, nestled  on the plain,  shaded with  trees and leaves,  like a piggy bank where we kept our 
memories.  You ’ll see why a person  would want  to live t here for an eternity.  The dawn, the 
morning, the afternoon,  and th e night,  were  always the same;  except for changes  in the air.  The 
air changes  the color of things  there ; where  life whirs  by as if it were a murmur; as if it were  a 
pure murmur of life…”  
 
    “Yes, Dorotea.  It must have been t he murmurs killed me.  Alt hough I was alr eady weakened  
by my fear.  It had been getting closer and closer, until I could no longer withstand it.  And when 
I heard those  murmurs  they shattered my lifeline.”  
    “You were  right, I had gone  to the plaza.  The clamor  of people drew  me there, and I thought I 
had made it.  I was no longer in my right mind; I remember leaning on the walls as if I were  
walking with my hands.  And murmurs seemed to ooze out of  the walls, as if they were filte ring 
through the  cracks.  I heard them; t hey were voices of people, not clear voices  but secret, as if 
they were whispering  something, or as if they we re buzzing close to my ears.  I moved  away 
from the walls and went  on through the middle of the street,  but I still could hear them,  like they 
were bot h in front and in back  of me.  I didn’t feel the heat  like I had before; on the contrary, I 
felt cold.  Since I left the house of that woman who let me use  her bed who , like I said, I saw 
dissolving  in the water of her sweat, I felt cold.  And while I was walking  it got stronger and 
stronger, until I had goose bumps all over my skin.  I tried to go back, thinking that if I returned I 
could find the heat I  had just left, but then I realized  that the cold was coming from  me, from my 
own blood.  And then I was scared.  I still heard that  noise  from  the plaza.  So Donis came back 
then?  The wo man was sure she would never see him again.”  
    “It wa s already in the morning when Donis and I  ran into each other.  I didn’t know where he 
was coming from, and I didn’t ask him.”  
    “Wel l, so I got to the plaza, and I stopped by the side of the gate.  I saw there weren’t any 
people, though I kept  on hearing  the murmurs, like when there are lots o f people on market day.  
The same  sound , for no particular reason, like the wind blowing through the branches of the trees 
at nigh t, when you ca n’t see the tre es or the branches, but you hear  the murmuring.  After that I 
didn’t go any further.  I began to feel as though  that murmu ring was getting closer and was  
circling  around me  until I was finally  able to make out a few  words that had hardly any sound: 
“Pray to God for us.”   That was what I heard them tell me . Then my s oul froze.  That’s why the 
two of yo u found me dead.”   
    “It probably would hav e been better if you hadn’t come here .  What did you come here for 
anyway?  
    “I told you  that before .  I came to loo k for Pedro Paramo who,  according to what  I was told, 
was my father.  I came because of an il lusion.”  
    “An illusion?  That’s not good.  One of those  made me live longer than I should have .  With 
that I paid  for the debt of having a  son who was , to put it that way, nothing more than an  illusion; 
because I didn’t have a son.  Now that I am dea d it has given me time to think , and figure out 
everything.  God didn ’t even give me a nest to put him  in.  Only this miserable life I lived, with  
my sad ey es that were always looking behind people, suspecting that someone was hiding my 

child.  And it was  all because of  an accursed dream I had.  I have had two: I call one of them 
“blessed,” and the other, “accursed.”  The first one was when I drea mt I had a son.  And , as long 
as I lived , I never stopped believing that it was true; because I felt him in my arms, tender, with 
open eyes, mouth, an d hands.  For a long time in my fingers  I felt  the impression of his sleepy 
eyes, and the beating of his heart.  Ho w was I not going to think that was real?  I carried him  
with me wherever I went, wrapped in my shaw l, and then, suddenly, I lost him .  In heaven they 
told me they had made a mistake with me.  That they had given me the heart of a mother, but the 
womb of a tramp .  That was the other dream I had.  I got to heaven and I looked around to see i f 
I recognized the face of my child  on one of the angels .  And nothing.   All faces were the same, 
made from the same mold.  Then I asked  them about it .  One of t he saints came to  me and, 
without  saying anyth ing, stuck one of his hands in to my stomach as if h e had pushed  it into a jar  
of wax.  When he pulled it out , he showed me somethi ng that looked like an empty shell .  ‘This 
shows  us what happened to you. ’” 
     “You know the strange things they say  up there; but you can  still understand  them.  I tried to 
tell them  it was only because my stomach was suffering from hunger and the lack of food ; but 
then another  one of those saints grabbed me by the shoulders and  then pushed  me out the door.  
“Go and rest a little longer on earth ; and while you ’re there , try to be good so that your purgatory 
will last only  a short time .” 
    “That was the accursed dream I had, from which I learned the reason I never had a son.  I 
found out very late, when my body had given out, when my backbone had come  out of the top of 
my head and  I could no longer walk.  Then on top of that, the town was starting to become 
abandoned; everyone was leaving to go somewh ere else, and with them went  the charity  that was 
keeping  me alive .  I sat down and waited to die.  After we found  you, my bones decided t o stop 
working .  ‘Nobody would notice it,’ I thought.  I am someone that doesn’t matt er to anyone.  
You can see that I no longer take up any space on the earth.  They buried me in th is grave where 
I fit nicely  into the hollow of you arms, here in this patc h of ground where you have me now.  
Only , I ought to be the one w ho has you in my arms.  Oh, you hear  that?  It’s raining out there.  
Don’t you hear the rain falling?”  
    “I feel like someone is walking  over us.  But  stop being afraid; no one can do anything to 
frighten you  now.  Try to think  about nice things, because we’ re going to be buried here for a 
long time .” 
 
 
    At daybreak, large drops of rain were falling on the ground.  They sounded holl ow as they fell 
into the soft, loose  dirt in side the furrows.  A mocking  bird flew over the flat ground  and imitated 
the cry of a child; farther away one could hear it utter a gr oan of fatigue, and farther still, where 
the horizon opened into a white expanse, it made a hiccup, and then a chortle, followed b y 
another gr oan. 
    Fulgor Sendano noticed  the smell of the soil, and he looked around  to see how the rain was 
filling  the furrows.  His eyes opened wide.  He took several  sniffs of that aroma , and he smiled 
until his teeth showed.  
    “Great!” he s aid.  “It looks like we’re going  to have another good yea r.”  And then he added: 
“Come here, little drops of water, come here.  Keep on falling until you get  tired.  After that  you 
can go  away , and remember , that we have  only opened this ground so it will please  you.” 
    And he burst out laughing .  The mocking bird returned from its flight through the field s and 
flew by,  almost in front of him, groaning with a sickly groan.  

    The rain poured out of the clouds until , out there  where it had begun to get light, the clouds  
closed up  again , and it seemed like the  darkness that had been leaving  was now returning. The 
gate of Media Luna , drenched by the rain,  creaked when  it opened .  Passing through were two, 
two more, and still two more, until at least two h undred men on horseback came through  and 
started galloping  through the wet fields.  
    “We need to drive  the cattle of Enmedio  farther  past what used to be Estagua, and then run the 
cattle of Estagua over to the hills of Vilmayo,”  Fulgor Sedano told the men as they were leaving.  
“And hurry up, because a downpour is coming!”  
    He repeated that so many times that the last men only heard, “From here to there, and  from 
there even farther.”  Each and every one raised their hand to th eir sombrero , to show that they 
understood  him. 
    And the last man had just left when Miguel Paramo galloped in and, without stopping his 
horse, jumped off r ight in front of Fulgor, letting the horse  go and  look for its stable  by itself . 
    “Where have you been at this hour , boy?”  “I’m coming from having a good time.”  “With 
whom?”  “Can’t you guess?”  “It must have been Dorotea, the ‘Cuarraca.’   She’s the only one 
who like s babies.”  “You are an imbecile, Fulgor; but it’s not your fault.”  
    And without removing his spurs, Miguel  left to go  in and have his lunch.   
    Damiana Cisneros was in the kitchen, and she asked him the same question.   
    “But where have you been, Miguel?”  
    “Oh, out there, visiting mothers .” 
    “I don’t want to bother  you.  So excuse me.  But how do you make the eggs?”  
    “Just the way you like them.”  
    “I am trying to talk  to you in a decent  way, Miguel.”  
    “Yes, I know, Damiana.  Don’t worry.  Li sten, do you know a woman named  Dorotea, the one 
they call the C uarraca?”  
    “Yes.  And if you want to see her, she ’s right outside there now .”  Every morning she comes 
here for breakfast.”  
    “She is the one who has a ball of wool  in her shawl and rocks it, saying  that it is her baby.  It 
seems something bad  must have  happened to her some ti me ago; but  since she never talk s about 
it, no one knows what it was .  Now she lives on charity .” 
    “That n asty old man!  I’ m going to pl ay him a dirty trick that makes him  rolls his eyes.”  
    Then Miguel  started wonder ing if that woman wouldn’t be able to help him with something.  
And, without hesitating, he opened the back door of the kitchen and called to Dorotea.  
    “Come here; I’m going to make you a deal,” he told her.  
    No one  knows what kind of a proposition he made, but the fact is that he came back through  
the door rubbing his hands.  
    “The eggs will be  coming!” he shouted to Damiana.  And he added, “From now on, you will 
give that woman the same breakfast as mine, and  make sure you don’t leave out  anything.”  
    Meanwhile, Fulgor went to s ee how tall the corn had grown .  He was worried about the size, 
becau se the harvest was going to be late .  However, it was just  a short time since  it had been 
planted.  “I wan t to see if it will catch up with us .”  Then he added: “That boy is just like his 
father, but he’s starting t oo soon.  The way he’s acting , I don’t think he’s going to make it.  And 
I forgot to tell him that someone came here yesterday with the report that he had ki lled someone.  
If that goes on …” 
    He sighed and tr ied to imagine  where the cow s could have gone now.  But he was distracted 
when he saw  that Miguel’s horse was rubb ing his nose against the wall.  “He didn’t even take the 

saddle off ,” he thought.  “He does n’t care .  At le ast Don Pedro is a bit more consistent, and he 
has his moments of calm.  But he’s too easy on Miguel.  Yeste rday I reported what his son had 
done, and he answered : ‘Pretend it was me, Fulgor.  He is incapable of doing something like that; 
he’s not strong enough to kill anyone.  In order to do something like that, you have to have balls  
as big as this .’  And he p ut his hands up as though he were  holding a pumpkin.  ‘ Whenever he 
does something  wrong , you can blame  it on me.’”  
    “Miguel is  going to give you a lot of headaches, Don Pedro.  He likes to stir up trouble.”  
    “Let him take care of himself.  He is not much more than a child.  How old is he?  He must be 
about seventeen by now.  Isn’t that right, Fulgor?”  
    “It could b e.  I remembe r when they brought him here  like it w as just yesterday.  But he tends 
to be violent, and he’s living  so fast  that I sometimes think he must be racing against time.  He 
will end up loosing, you’ll see.”  
    “He’s still just a child, Fulgor.”  
    “Whatever you say, Don Pedro.  B ut the woman who came here weeping yesterday , saying  
your son killed her husband , was completely heartbroken.  I know how to recognize a broken 
heart, Don Pedro.  And that woman surely had one.  I offered her five hundred  hectoliters of corn 
to help her get over  it, but she didn’t want  it.  Then, I promised her we would find some way to 
correct that har m that was done .  She didn’t want that either ” 
    “Who was it?”  
    “They are people  I don’t know.”  
    “Then you don’t h ave to worry about them , Fulgor.  Those  people don’t exist.”  
    He went out into the fields and checked on the corn.  He took some of the corn in his hands to 
make sure the  weevil s hadn’t bored  into it.  Then he measured the height of the corn: “It will 
yield,” he said.  “ When the grazing land is ready , we won’t have to give the cattle any more corn.  
There is more than enough.”  
    On the way back he looked at the sky full of clouds and said: “We’ll have water for a long 
time.”  And he forgot about everyt hing else.  
 
 
    “Outside there the weather must be changing.  My mother told me that when it started to rain, 
everything was filled with light, and the green odor of saplings. She told me how a mountain of 
clouds would arrive, how they spread  out over the  ground , and how they disrupted things by 
changing t he colors…  My mother spent her  childhood , and her best years , in this town, but  she 
wasn’ t able to come back here to die.  So I gues s she sent me in her place.  It seems  strange, 
Dorotea, that I was neve r even able to see heaven .  At least,  I think  it must have been the same 
place she knew .” 
    “I don’t know, Juan Preciado.  It’s been so many years since I ’ve raised m y head tha t I have 
forgotten about heaven .  Even if I had, what would it have mattered?  Heaven  is so high up, and 
my eyes so weak , that I was happy just to be able to see the earth .  Besides, I lost all my interest 
in it after Father Renteria told me I would never know bliss .  That I wouldn’t ev en see it from a 
distance…  It was because of my sins, but  he shouldn’t hav e told me that  because life is full of so 
many difficult things.  The only thing that makes one try is the hope that , when you die , they will 
take you to a different place.  B ut whe n they close the door  and the only one left open is the one 
to hell, it would be better not to have been born…  So f or me, Juan Preciado, heaven is where I 
am now.”  
    “And what about your soul?  Where do you think it has gone?”  

    “It must be wandering around  the earth like many others, searching for living people who will 
pray for it.  Maybe it hates me for the bad way I treated it; but I no longer worry about that.  I 
have gotten rid  of the bad habit of feeling remorse.  I was  embittered  by the little bit I had to eat, 
and I couldn’t stand the nights filled with  worried ideas about condemnation and things like that.  
When I sat down to die, my soul begged  me to get up again and keep struggling through life , as 
if I were  waiting for some miracle that wou ld remove my sins.  I never tried to do that: ‘This is 
were it ends,’ I told it.  ‘ I don’t have the strength to do  anymore.’  And I opened my mouth so it 
could go away.  And that ’s what it did.  Then I felt  it when  a trickle of blood from  the thread  that 
connect s it to my he art fel l into my hands.”  
 
 
    Someone  knocked on his  door, but he didn’t open it .  Then he heard them knock  on the other  
doors , waking up people.  Then h e heard the rapid  steps of Fulgor  walking toward his  front door  
(he recognized him by the way he walked ); he heard the footsteps  stop for a moment , as if he 
was going to knock  once more .  But then he went  away  again.  
    There was the sound of voices and footsteps th at were slowly  moving , as if  they were carrying 
something heavy.   
   Vague noises.  
    He thought about  the deat h of his father  that was also on a morning like this ; althou gh on that 
morning,  looking through the open door , you could  see the gray color of a sky turned t o ashes .  
And a woman who was holding back her tears was leaning on the door.  A mother he had already 
forgotten , who was  telling him: “They have kill ed your father!”  She was telling him that with a 
weak, broken voice that was  only held together by the thread of her sobbing.  
    He nev er wanted to recall that memory  becaus e it brought back others; like when a sack 
breaks open and all the grain spills out .  The death of his father that led to other deaths , and in 
each of the m there was  an image of a face that was torn apart, with one eye broken, and the oth er 
looking vengefully.  An d then another  face, and still another, until  those  memories stopped when 
there were  no longer any faces left to remind him of them . 
    “Put him down here!  No, not that way. You have to  put him with his head the other way .  
Come  on!  What are you waiting for?”  
    Speaking softly.  
    “What about him?”  
    “He’s sleeping.  Don’t wake him u p.  Don’t make any nois e.”   And there he was, watch ing 
them  setting down an object  wrapped i n old sacks  fastened  with the straps of a hal ter, as if they 
had covered it with  a shroud.  
    “Who is that ?” he asked.  
    Fulgor Sedano came over and told him : 
    “It’s Miguel, Don Pedro.”  
    “What did they do to him?” he shouted .  He expected  they would say “They killed him.”  And 
he was already gett ing ready to express  his fury  with loud shouts  of anger, but then he heard the 
quiet  voice of Fulgor Sedano telling him:  
    “Nobody did anything.  He met  death all by himself.”  
    There were gas lamps illuminating the darkness.  
    “…The horse killed hi m” one of them spoke out.  
    They laid  him on his bed , removing  the ma ttress, leaving the bare boards where they arranged  
the body, now without the straps that had been wrapped around it.   They placed his hands over  

his chest , and covered his face with a black cloth.  “Now h e seems more grand than he  was,” 
Fulgor Sedano thought  to himself.  
    Pedro Param o was expressionless, and h is thoughts were struggling with  each other,  without 
being able to connect.  Finally , he said:  
    “Now I’m beginning  to pay fo r it.  I suppose it’s b etter to do it early  and have  it end soon.”  
    He felt no sorrow . 
    He talked to the p eople in the patio to thank them  for coming, making  sure his voice carried  
through the sobs of the women,  not trying to hide his feelings .  Late r that night the only thing 
that was heard was  the sound of  Miguel Paramo ’s horse,  stomping  on the ground.   
    “Tomorrow  have that horse put down  so it won’t keep suffering,” he ordered Fulgor Sedano.  
    “Yes , Don Pedro.  I understand.  The poor thing m ust feel devastated.”  
    “That’s what I was think ing too, Fulgor.  And while you’re at it, tell those women not to make 
such a scene; it ’s too distur bing for my dead son.  If it were  anyo ne else, they wouldn’t be 
carrying on  like that.  
 
 
    Many years later  Father Renteria would remember  how the stiff ness of h is bed made him 
unable to sleep that night,  until he finally was forced  to get out of bed.  It was the night  that 
Miguel Paramo died.  
    He walked through  the empty streets of Comala , with his heavy  footsteps disturbing the dogs 
that w ere sn iffing clumps  of garbage.  He wen t to the river where he spent some time looking at 
the reflection of the stars in the water.  He spent more than an hour struggling with his th oughts, 
before letting them sink  into the dark water of the river.  
    “The whole thing began,” he thought, “when, from the miserable  person he was as a child, 
Pedro Paramo became an adult.  He grew up like a noxious weed.  The worst thing is that it was 
all because of me: ‘I co nfess, Father, that yesterday I slept with Pedro Paramo.’  ‘I confess,  
Father, that I h ad a child of Pedro Paramo.’   ‘I permitted  my daughter go to Pedro Paramo.’  I 
alway s expected he would come  to me  and confess  someth ing, b ut he never did.  And later , he 
extended the arms of h is evil with that son he had , who he actually recognized as his  own, 
though God knows why.  What I do know is that I put  that instrument in his hands.”  
    He reme mbered very clearly the day he  brought the child to him,  soon  after he was born.  
    He had told him:  
    “Don Pedro, the mother died when she gave birth to him.  She said he was yours.  Here he is.”  
    “And he didn’t deny it.  All he said was:  
    “Why don’ t you keep him, Father?   Make him a priest. ” 
    “With t he blood that he has inside  him, I don’t want  that responsibility.”  
    “Do you really believe I have bad blood?”  
    “Frankly yes, Don Pedro.”  
    “I will prove to you that that is not true.  Give him to me.  There are many  here who would be 
happy to help take care of him.”  
    “That was just  what I thought .  At least with you he will be sure to have support.”  
    The child  grew  up, but even when he was small  he was a viper.  
 
 
    “Damia na!  Take care of this boy .  He i s my child.”  
    After that he opened  a bottle  of wine :  

    “I will drink this f or the deceased mother , and for you . 
    “And for him?”  
    “For him too .  Why not?”  
    He filled another glass , and the two of t hem drank for the future of the  child.  
    “That’s how it was .” 
 
 
    The wagons s tarted to roll  by, headed for Media Luna.  He ducked down , hiding himself in a 
hollow nex t to the river.   He asked himself, “What are you  hiding from?”   
    “Hello, Father,” he heard someone say to him.  
    He raised up from the ground and replied:  
    “Hello.  May the lord bless you.”  
    Lights were still on  in the town.  The river was full of luminous colors .   
    “Father, have they already said the Eucharist?” one of the wagon drivers asked him.  
    “That must have been some time ago,” he said.  And he started walking in the opposite 
direction , with no intention of stopping.  
    “Where are you going so early, Father?”  
    “Where is the person  who is dying, Father?”  
    “Has someone died in Contla,  Father?”  
    He would have liked to tell them, “It’s me.  I am the one who has died.”  But he had to settle 
for just giving them a smile.  Once he was outside of the town, he accelerated hi s steps.  He 
returned later that  morning.  
    “Where have you been , uncle?” his niece Ana asked him.  “Lots of women have come looking 
for you.  They wanted to confess w ith you, since tomorrow is good  Friday.”  
    “They can come again  tonight.”  
    He was quiet for a while, sitting on a bench  in the hallway, feeling very  tired. 
    “What nice fresh air  today , right Ana?”  
    “It’s very hot, uncle.”  
    “I don’t feel it .” 
    The last thing he wanted was for the m to know he had been in Contla  where he made a full 
confession to the priest who, i n spite of his pleas, had refused to grant him absolution:  
    “This man whose name you refuse to mention has torn apart your Church, and you let him do 
that.  What can we expect from you now, Father?  What have you done to the power of God?  I 
want to believe that you are good, and that there you have received the respect of everyone; but 
it’s not enough to be good.  A sin  is not good.  And to put an end to it , you must be strict , and 
mercil ess.  I want to believe that they  are still believers; but you are not the one who maintains 
their faith; they have it  out of superstition, or fear.  I want to share with you the poverty in which 
you live, and in the effort  and care you give them each day as part of your duty.  I know how 
difficult  that is in these poor towns that  they have assign ed us; but that very thing gives me the 
right to tell you that we must not give our service to the  few who give you something  in return 
for you soul, and with your soul in their hands , what can you do to be better than those who are 
better than you?   No, Father, my hands are not clean enough to grant you absolution.   You wi ll 
have to look for that  somewhere else.”  
    “Do you mean to say that I have to go look for a confession somewhere else?  
    “Yes, y ou have to do that.  You can’t continue consecrating  others when you yourself are in 
sin.” 

    “And if they suspend my ministries?”  
    “I don’t think they will do that, although perhaps you deserve that.  It will be up to them to 
decide.”  
    “Couldn’t you…?  Let’ s say provisionally …  I need to give holy o ils for the  communion.  
There are so  many pe ople in my town  who are dying .” 
    “Father, let God judge those who die.”  
    And the priest in  Contla had said no.  
    After that the two of them walked through the corridors of the curacy shaded by azaleas.  T hey 
sat down under a n arbor full of grape vines.  
    “They are acidic, Father,” the priest said, anticipating the question he was going to ask.   
    “We live in a land where all  is given  to us , thanks to Providence; but it is given with acidity.  
We are c ondemned to that”  
    “Yes, you’re right, Senor Priest.  I tried to grow grapes in Comala, but with no  success.   All 
that grows there are oranges , and bayberries; sour oranges,  sour bayberries.  I no longer 
remember the taste of sweet things.  Do you remem ber the guavas from China we had in the 
seminary?  The peaches, and the mandarins that were so soft the skin would come off the minute 
you touched them?   I brought a few seeds; just a few, hardly a po cket full… afterward I 
realized it would have been bette r to leave them w here they would be able to grow; because here 
I only brought them to die.”  
    “And nevertheless, Father, they say  that the land of Comala is fertile .  It is too bad that it is all 
in the hands of one man.  It’s Pedro Paramo  who is still the owner, right?”  
    “That has been  God’s will .” 
    “I don’t think that in this case the will of God is involved.  Isn’t that what you think, Father?”  
    “At times I have doubted it, bu t there , they accept  it.” 
    “Are you one of them?”  
    “I am just a poor man who is willing to humiliate himself, when he feels the ne ed to do i t.” 
    Then they  had said goodbye.  He took his  hands and kissed them .  After what had happened 
with him , he didn’t  want to think any more about that morning in C ontla.  
    He got up and started  toward the door.  
    “Where are you going, uncle?”  
   His niece , Ana,  was always there next to him, as if she were trying to use his shadow in order 
to protect herself from life.  
    “I’m going to walk a  for bit, Ana.  To see if I drop dead .” 
    “Are  you feel ing bad?” 
   “No, not feeling bad , Ana.  Just b ad.  A bad man.  That’s what I feel like.”  
    He went to Media Luna and gave condolences to Pedro Paramo.  Once again he heard the 
excus es for the accusations made against  his son.  He let him go on.  None of that mattered.  
However, he turned down the invitation to have dinner with him:  
    “I’m sorry I  can’t do that, Don Pedro, because I have to get back to the church so on.  A lot of 
women are waiting for me by the confes sional.  Some other time.”  
    He walked as fast as he could  and, since  it was getti ng dark , he went into the church  just as  he 
was, covered with  dust and misery.  He sat down to hear confessions.  
    The first to come to him was old Dorotea  who always was there , waiting for the doors of the 
church to open.  
    He noticed that she smelled of alcohol.  
    “What’ s this , now you’re getting  drunk?  Since when?”  

    “I was  just at Miguel’s funeral, and they kept on giving me something to drink unt il I turned 
into a clown.”  
    “You’ve never been anything else, Dorotea.”  
    “But now I’m coming to you with my  sins, Father.  And lots of them.”  
    Several times he had told her: “Don’t come to confes sion, Dorotea; when you  do that you only 
take up my time.  You can’t  commit more  sins, even if you tried  to.  Give the others a chance  to 
come and visit me.” 
    “But now I do have sins , Father.  I really do.”  
    “Tell me.”  
    “Now that it can no longer do  any harm, I will t ell you that I was the one who went to get  girls 
for Miguel Paramo.”  
    Father Renteria seemed to wake up from his dreams , and asked her:  
    “Since when?”  
    “Since he was a young man.  Since he had the measles.”  
    “Dorotea, please repeat what you just told me.”  
    “Well, I  said t hat I was the one who got girls for Miguel Paramo.”  
    “Did you bring them yourself”  
    “Some times, yes.  Other times, I only  spoke  to them.  And with others, I told him how to find 
them.  You know,  the time when they would be alone  and he could catch them unprepared.”  
    “Were there a lot of them?”  
He didn’t really want to ask that  question, but it  came to him out of habit.  
    “I have lost count.  There were too many  of them.”  
    “Wh at do you want from me , Dorotea?  You must j udge  yourself.  Try and  see if you can  
forgive yourself.”  
    “I can’t  do that , Father.  But you can.  That’s why I have come to see you.”  
    “How many times have you come to me to ask me to help  you go to heaven when you die?  
You wanted to see if you could find your child the re, right Dorotea?  Well, you won’t be able to 
go to heaven any longer.  But may God forgive you.”  
    “Thank you, Father.”  
    “Yes.  I also forgive you , in His name.  You may  go now.”  
    “Aren’t you going to give me a penance?”  
    “You don’t need one, Dorotea.”  
    “Thank you , Father.”  
    “May God be with you.”  
    He knocked on the window of the confessionary to let another one of the wom en know he was 
ready to see someone.  And , as he hear d her say “I a sinner…” his head bent over, as if he could 
no longer hold it upright.  Then he had that dizziness , that sensation of dissolving in thick water, 
and of lights spinning around; a ll the daylight was breaking into fragments; and there was a taste 
of blood on his tongue.  Then, “I a sinner…” was repeated a gain more loudly, and finally he 
finished : “forever and ever, amen,” “forever and ever, amen,” “forever and ever…”  
    “That’s enough,” he said.  “How long has it been since you came to confession?”  
    “ Two days, Father.”  
    There he was again.  As if he were  surrounded by misfortu ne.  “What are you doing here?”  he 
thought to himself.  “You should get up  and g et some rest.  You’re exhausted .” 
    He rose up from the confessional and went to the sacristy, without looking at the people who 
were waiting fo r him:  

    “All of those who are feel they are  without sin can  come to  receive communion tomorrow.”  
    Behind him, all he heard was a murmur  
 
 
    I am sleeping in the same bed where my mother died many years ago; on the same mattress, 
under the same black wool blanket that used t o cover both of us when were sleeping .  Then , I 
slept by h er side, in a little place she made for me under her arms.  
     I think I still can hear the slow pulsation of her breathing, and the sighs with which she lul led 
my sle ep…  But none of that i s real.  I am in a black box like  those  they use to bury the dead.  
Because I am dead.  
    I can feel the place where I am, and I think…  
    I think of when the lemons ripen.  O f the wind  in February breaking  the stems of the bracken  
when  the lack of care  makes it dry up.  Of the ripe lemons filling the patio with their odor.  
     The wind came down from the mountains on those February mornings.  And the clouds were 
up there w aiting for  the weather  that lets them fall down  into the va lley, leaving the blue sky 
empty , so that the light shines down with  the wind, making circles on the groun d, blowing the 
dust, and rocking  the branches of the orange trees.  
     And the sparrows chirped;  they peck ed the leaves that the wind had  blown off t he trees, and 
they chirp ed while they d id that; they left  their feathers  on the branches, and they chase d 
butterflies and chirp ed some more .  It was that time  of the year . 
    I remember the  February  mornings full of win d, and  sparrows, and blue sky .  That  was w hen 
my mother died.  I probably shouted  and my hand s must have been torn to shreds  after wringing 
out my despair .  You would have liked the way things were .  But maybe you were not happy  that 
morning .  The wind blew  through the open door, rustling stems of the ivy.  The hair between the 
veins  on my legs  began to rise , and my warm ha nds trembled as they touched my breasts .  The 
sparrows were enjoying themselves.  In the fields the corn was waving i n the wind.  I felt sorry 
that she  would no longer be a ble to see the wind in  the jasmines, that her  eyes were closed  to the 
light of day.  But why was I  going to cry ? 
    Do you remember, Justina?  You had arranged the chairs along the side of the corridor for the 
people who would come and wait for their turn  to say goodbye to her.  But t he chairs were 
empty, and my mother was alone in the center  of the candles;  her face was pale , her white teeth  
were  barely visible between her red lips that were hardened by the chill of death.  Her  eyebrows 
were motionless , the same as  her heart.  You and I were praying endlessly , without her hearing 
it, nor did you or I hear anything , since  all was covered by  the sonority of the wind that  night.  
You ironed her black dress, starching t he collar and the cuffs so her hands  would look fresh 
when  they were crossed over her breast, he r loving breast where I once had slept, that  had also 
given  me something to  eat, and that  palpitated , sooth ing my dreams.  
    No one came to see her, but that was for the best.  Death is not so mething  that you offer as 
entertainment .  No one goes around looking for sadness.  
    Someone kno cked on the door.  You went out . 
    “You go,” I told you.  “ I have a hard time seeing things clearly.  And t ell them to go away.  
Are they  coming for the money from the Gregorian Mass?  She didn’t leave any money .  Tell 
them that Justina.  S he will not be able to leave  purgatory if they d on’t hold these  Mass es and 
pray for her?  Who are  they to enforce justice?  You think I’ m crazy?  That ’s okay with me. ” 
    “And the  chairs you set up  were still empty  until we went to bury her with those men we hired 
who w ere sweating under  someone else’s weight.  They  lowered the coffin slowly, they  covered 

the grave with damp  sand, while they  were refreshed by the cool wind.  Their eyes were cold and 
indifferent.  They told us how much it would cost.  And you pai d them, like one who is buying 
something , untying you r handkerchief that was damp with tears, and was now wrapped around  
the money fo r the funeral…”  
    And when they left, you kneeled in the place where her face was now , and kissed the ground; 
and it could have made  a hole in the ground , if I hadn’ t told you : “Let’s go, Justina ; she’ s 
somewhere else now; here there is only a dead body. ” 
 
 
    “Was it  you who said all that, Dorotea?”  
    “Who, me?  I was asleep for a while.  Are they still scaring you?”  
    “I heard someone who was talking.  It was the voice of a woman.  I thought it was you.”  
    “The voice of a woman?  You thought it w as me?   It must have been the one who  talks by 
hersel f.  The one in the large grave,  Susana  San Juan .  She is buried by our side.  The humidity 
must have reached her, and now she’ s dreaming about things that happened.”  
    “Who is she?”  
    “The last wife of Pedro Paramo.  Some  said she was mad.  Others, said  she wasn’t.  The truth 
is that sh e had  already talked  by herself when  she was alive.”  
    “She must have be en dead for a long time.”  
    “Uh, yes!  Some  time ago.  What did you hear her say?”  
    “Some thing about her mother.”  
    “But she didn’t have a mother…”  
    “Well, that’s what she was talking about.”  
    “…Well , at least, she never had one when she came here.  But wait.  Now I remember that she 
was born  here, and then when she was an old lady , they disappeared.  And yes, her mother died 
of tuberculosis.  She was a strange woman who was always sick and never visited anyone.”  
    “That’s what she said.  That no one came to see her mother when she died.”  
    “But what time was she talking about?  Of course no one came to her house because they were 
afraid of gettin g tuberculosis.  Didn’t this woman  remember that?”  
    “That’s what she was talking about .” 
    “If you hear her talking again, be sure to tell me.  I would like to know what she says.”  
    “You hear  that?  I think she’ s going say something  else.  I can hear a voice .” 
    “No, that’s not her.  That’s coming from farther away, from the other direction.  And it’s the 
voice of a man.  What hap pens is that when humidity reaches  these old dead  people , they begin 
to move around and  wake up.”  
    ‘Heaven  is huge.  God was with me t hat night.  If that was not the case , who knows what 
might have happened.  Beca use it was already night when I revived .’ 
    “Do you hear it better now?”  
    “Yes.”  
    ‘…I had blood all over me.   And when I rose up I looked at  the blood that fallen on the stones.   
And it was mine.  Puddles of blood.  But I realized I wasn’t dead.  I knew that Pedro Paramo did 
not intend to kill me.  Only to frighten me.  He wanted to fi nd out if I had b een in Vilmayo two 
months earlier, o n the day of Saint Christopher.  At the wedding.  I rolled  around  in my blood 
and asked him: ‘ At what wedding, Don Pedro?  No, no, Don Pedro, I wasn’t there.  If maybe I 
did pass by there, it was just a coincidence… ’  He didn’t intend to kill me.  He left me lame,  as 

you see , or maimed, if you prefer.  But he didn’t kill me.  They say that one of my eyes squinted 
after that , because of the shock.  Heaven is huge .  No one doubts that.’  
    ‘Who can that be?’  
    ‘I don’t know.  There were  so many.  Pedro Paramo caused such  a loss of li fe after they killed 
his father;  they say he killed all those who attended the wedding  where Don Lucas was going to 
act as godfather.  And the thing is, th at it only happened to  Don Lucas by accident, bec ause it 
seems that the shot  was actually  intended for the groom.  And since they never knew who fired 
the bullet that struck him, Pedro Paramo slaughtered everyone.  It w as there on the hill of 
Vilmayo  were there were several ranches, where there is no trace  of any  today…   Wait, now that 
does sound like  her.  You have good ears, pay attention to her , and te ll me what she says .’ 
    ‘I don’t understand anything.  It doesn’t sound like she is t alking;  she’s onl y complaining.’  
    ‘What i s she complaining about?’  
    ‘No idea.’  
    “It must be for something.  Nobody complains for no reason.  Listen very carefully.”  
    ‘She’s just complaining.  Mayb e Pedro Paramo made her suffer.’  
    ‘No way.  He loved her.  It’ s my opinion that he never loved any woman like  he loved her.  
When he found her, she was already long -suffering, and perhaps mad.  He loved her so much 
that after she died, he spent the rest of his life looking do wn the road where they took  her to the 
cemetery.   He lost interest in everything.  He abandoned his lands and had them destroy all his 
equipment.  Some say it was because he grew tired, others say he was suffering from disillusion.  
The truth is, he sent everyone away and then  did nothing more tha n sit there in hi s chair.  just 
staring down the road.’  
    ‘After that  the la nd beca me a wasteland, and  was in ruins.  It hurt to see it so uncared for , with 
the blight that covered it after it was abandoned.  From one end to the other , people lost interest 
in the land and went to find other more attractive places.  I remember days when Comala was 
filled with goodbyes, and it seemed like a  good thing to go a nd say far ewell to those who were 
leaving.  And the thing is that most  were leavi ng with the intention of coming back again.   Some 
asked  their family to join them. but not for the rest of their things.  Then, they forgot about the  
town, about us, and even their belonging s.  I stayed because I had nowhere else to go.  Others 
stayed , thinking that  Pedro Paramo would die, and  according to what th ey said, he had promised 
to bequeath  them his property, so  this gave them some hope.  But the years passed , and he was 
still alive, always there, like a scarecrow in front of the gate  of the empty land of  Media Luna. ’ 
    ‘And then , when it was getting closer to the  time for him to die, the wars of the Cristeros 
broke out  and their army took in  the few men who remained.  It was when I was dying of hunger, 
and since  then I never struggled  any more .’ 
    ‘And all  that happened  because of the sorrow  of Don Pedro, because of the  way he suffered .  
Because his wife died,  the one named Susana.  And that  shows how much he loved her. ’ 
 
 
    It was Fulgor Sedano who told him:  
    “Boss, do you know who’ s here now?”  
    “Who?”  
    “Bartolome San Juan.”  
    “So what about it?”  
    “That’s what I ’m asking myself.  I wonder why he ca me here?”  
    “Have n’t you looked into it?”  

    “No, not so far .  And he hasn’t  even  looked for a place to live.  He went  right to you r old 
house.  Then,  he dismounted and set down his bags, as if you had already rented him the house .  
At least that ’s the way it seemed.”  
    “And w hy is it, Fulgor, that you haven’ t found out what’s going on?  Isn’t that your job?”  
    “I was confused by what I just told you.  Bu t tomorrow I will look into  it, if you think that is 
necessary.”  
    “No, you can leave that matter to me.  I’ll take care of it .  Have the two of them come?”  
    “Yes, he and his wife.  But how do you know t hat?”  
    “Are you sure it wasn’t his daughter?”  
    “Well , based on the way he treated  her, I would say it was his wife.”  
    “Okay, go and get some rest, Fulgor.”  
    “Yes, if you will permit me .” 
 
 
    ‘I waited thirty years for you to come back, Susana .  I was hoping for everything.  Not just 
something, but everything ; so there would be no other desire s, only yours, the desire for  you.  
How many times did I ask your father to come and live here again, telling him that I need ed him?  
I even tried  it with  a few  deceptions.’  
    ‘I offered t o make him the manager, if he would return with  you again.  And what did he say?  
‘There is no response ,’ the messenger always told me.  ‘Senor Don Bartolme tears up the  letters 
whenever I give them to him. ’  But from the messenger, I learned  you had gotten married , and 
then I heard you had become a widow and were living with your father again.’  
    For a moment  there was silence.  
    ‘Then, the  messenger came and went , and when he returned he always told  me: 
    ‘I haven’t see n them, Don Pedro.  People  say they have left Mascota.’  
    ‘And I said:  
    ‘Don’t worry what it costs; go and  look for them.  It’s not as if  the earth has swallowed them.’  
    ‘Until one day he came to tell me:  
    ‘I searched  through  the entire mountain range , trying to find  where Bartolome San Jua n was 
hiding, until I found him  lost in a hole in the mountains, living in a small shack made of logs, in 
the place there the abandoned mines of La Andro meda  are.’ 
    “After I heard that wa s when strange things were happening.  They said that people had taken 
up arms.  We heard rumors.  That  was what drew your father here.  Not for himse lf, according to 
what he somewhat later  told me  in his letter, but to bring you to  someplace that was safe .” 
    “I felt like the sky was opening.  I felt like rush ing there to you, to shower you with happiness.  
I felt like crying .  And I di d cry, Susana, when I knew you were finally going to return.”  
 
 
    “There are places that know misfortune.  You can tell them b y the smell  of their old, timid air  
that is pathetic  and weak , like everything that is old.  This  is one of those places , Susana.”  
    “Back there where  we have just come from you were pleased  at least by the state  of things:  
clouds, birds, moss … remember?  Here , on the other hand, you only find this sour, yellow odor 
that seems to come from everywhere .  And it’s because this is a mis fortunate place  that is now 
totally consumed by  misfortune.”  

    “He has asked us to come back.  He has let us use  this house.  He has given us everything  we 
might  need.  But we should not  be grateful to him.  We are unlucky to have come here, because 
here there will be no salvation for us.  I can sense it.”  
    “Do you know wh at Pedro Paramo wants from  me?   I alread y knew  that what he has given us 
was not going to be without cost .  And I was ready to pay for it with my work, since we would 
have to pay for it somehow.  I told him everything about Andromeda, and I assured him that it 
still has  possibilities  if it is  worked the right way.   And you know what he told me?  ‘I’m not 
interested in the mine, Bartolome San Juan.  The only thing I want from you is your daughter.  
That has been  your most important job.’”  
    “So what he wants is you, Susana.  They said you played together when you were children.  
That he already knows you.  That you even went swimming in the river together when you were 
kids.  I didn’t know that; if I had , I would have given you a beating  with my belt.”  
    “I don’t doubt it.”  
    “Was it really you who said, I don’t doubt it?”  
    “Yes, I said that .” 
    “Does that mean you are ready to sleep with him?”  
    “Yes, Bartolome.”  
    “Don’t you know that he is married , and th at he has had an untold number  of women ?” 
    “Yes, Bartol ome.”  
    “Don’t call me Bartolome.  I am your father!”  
 
 
    Bartolome San Juan, a dead miner.  Susana San Juan, the daughter of a deceased  miner  who 
died in the mines of Andro meda.  After he thought about it that way , he saw things  clearly;  “I 
will have to go there to die,”  and then he said:  
    “I have told him  that that though you are a w idow  your husband  is still part of your life, or at 
least that’s the way  you act .  I have tried to dis suade him, but he starts  to look  angry when I talk 
about that, and  when yo ur name is mentioned  he closes his eyes.  Like I have told you, he is pure 
evil.  That’s definitely what Pedro Paramo is.”  
    “And who am I?”  
    “You are my daughter , the daughter of Bartolome San Juan.”  
    In the mind of Susana San Juan her tho ughts began  to occur , at first slowly, and then they 
stopped, only to begin rushing again  until the only thing she could say was:  
    “That’s not true,  It’s not true .” 
    “This  world is pressing  on us fro m all sides, collecting handfuls of our dust  here and there,  and 
breaking us  into little pieces  while  sprinkling the ground with our blood.  What have we done?  
Why has our soul rot ted away?  Your mother said  at least we hav e the love of God.  And you 
spurn  all that, Susana.  Why do you spurn  me as your  father?  Are you mad?”  
    “Didn’t you know that?”  
    “You’re mad?”  
    “Of course I am, Bartolome.  Didn’t you know?”  
 
 
    “For me, Fulgor, she is the most beautiful woman on the face of the eart h?  I had started to 
think  that I had lost her forever.  And now I definitely do  not want to lose her again.  Do you 
understand, Fulgor?  Tell her father to go a head and keep on working in  the mines.  Once  he is 

there,  I think it will  be easy enough for t he old man to disappear in that place  where no body ever 
goes…  Don’t you think  so?” 
    “It could be.”  
    “We need to h ave it be.  She has to be  an orphan.  We are obligated to protect som eone like 
that; don’t you believe that too ?” 
    “I don’t see any problem .” 
    “Then get going, Fulgor, get going. ” 
    “And  if she finds out?”  
    “And who’s going to tell her?”  T ell me, between the  two of us , who  do you think  would tell 
her?”  
    “I don’t think  anyone would.”  
    “Don’t say you don’t think that.    Stop thinking like that , and then you will see how everything 
turns out just fin e.  Remember the work he used to do  at Andromeda.  Send him there to continue 
that work.  Let him go back and forth .  But nothing that involves his daughter.  It will be our job 
to take care of her.  His job will be there  in the mine , and his hou se will be  here when he comes 
home  to rest.”  
    “Once again I  like the way you are handling things, boss, as though  your spirit s are  livening 
up again.”  
 
 
    In the fields of  the valley of Comala  the rain is falling.  A light rai n that  is unusua l in this l and 
where there are usually  downpours.  It is Sunday , and the Indians have come down from Apango 
with their bags of c hamomile, their rosemary, and their handfuls of thyme.  They haven’ t brought 
any pine wood , because it is wet, n or any oak  wood, since  it is also wet from the heav y rain.  
They set down  their herbs under  the arc h of the gate  on the edge of the town , and wait.  
    The rain continues falling on  the puddles  already there . 
    In the furrows where the corn is  just starting to grow, streams  of water are flowi ng.  Today the 
men have not gone  to the market , because they are busy trying to alter  the furrows so the water 
will flow through another place  and not wash  away the tender stalks of corn.  They  are traveling 
in groups  over the  waterlogged terrain , breaking up the soft clods with their poles, and holding 
the corn stalks  with their hands  as they try  to protect the corn  so it will keep  on growing.  
    The Indians are still  waiting.  The fee l like it is a bad day.  Maybe  it is for that reason they are 
trembling under their soaked straw jackets; not with cold, but with fear.  And they  keep watching 
the falling  rain, and the sky that won’t  give up its clouds.  
    One woman has  asked  them for a bit of mending th read, some sugar  and, if they have one , a 
sieve to strain the gruel.  But no one else comes.  The town seems to be empty  Their jackets 
become heavy with moist ure as noon  approaches.  They chat,  they tell jokes, a nd they break out 
in laughter.  The chamomiles shine after b eing splattered with  rain.  They think: “If we had at 
least brought some  whisky  it wouldn’t matter; but the batch  of agaves has become a sea of water.  
Unfortunately , there is nothing we can do about it.”  
    Holding an umbrella , and surrounded by st reams of water that are gushing  over the pavement, 
Justina Diaz wa s walk ing down the road  that comes from Media Luna.  She made the sign of the 
cross and crossed herself , as she passed by the door of cathedral.  When she arrived at the gate , 
the Indians turned to look at  her.  She saw all of them staring  at her , as if the y were scrutinizing 
her.  She stopped at the first stall, bought ten cents worth of rosemary,  and then  left, followed by 
stares from  the group of Indians.   

    “How expensive everything is thes e days,” she said as she took the road t o Media Luna again.  
“This poor  little sprig of rosemary cost  ten cents, and it doesn’t even have an  aroma.”  
    When  it was beginning to get  dark, the Indians removed thei r their stalls.  They walked off  in 
the rain with heavy packs on  their back s.  They went into t he church to pray to the virgin  and left 
a handful of thyme as an off ering.  Then they started back  to Apango where they had come  from .  
“There it will be another day,” they said.  While  they traveled the y laughed , as they joked with 
each other.  
    Justina Diaz entered the be droom of Susana San Juan, placing  the rosemary on the shelf.  The 
closed curtains mad e the room look dark , so that  only shadows were seen.  S he assumed that 
Susana was  sleeping  and sh e wished she was always asleep .  She thought she was , and she was 
pleased .  Then she heard a  sigh that seemed to come from somewhere  in that dark room.  
    “Justina!” someone said.  
    She turned her head and did  not see anyone, but she felt a hand on her shoulder and someone 
breathing in her ears.  She heard a voice speaking  quietly: “It’s time for you to leave , Justina.  
Pack your things , and get out of here .  We don’t need you any longer.”  
    “She does  to need me,” she insisted, straightening her body.  “She’s sick , and she needs me.”  
    “Not any more , Justina.  I will stay here and take care of her.”  
    “Is that  you, Don Bartolome?” she asked , not expect ing an answer.  She uttered  a cry  that 
sounded like  one that made people  say, “That seems to be a h uman howl, but  it doesn’t sound 
like it’ s coming fr om a  human being.”  
    The rain muffled the sounds.  After everything that had happened , it was still being heard , its 
drops pouring  as though they were stringing  together the thread of life.  
    “What’s wrong, Justina?  Why are you shouting?” asked Susana San Juan.  
    “I never shouted, Susana.  You must have been dreaming.”  
    “I ha ve already told you that I don’t ever  sleep.  You don’ t have  any consideration of  me.  I’m 
always awake .  Last night you let your cat get away, and it kept me awake .” 
    “It stayed  with me, between my legs.  It was drenched , and out of pity I let it stay in  my bed.  
But it didn’t make a lot of  noise.”  
    “No, it didn’ t make noise, but kept on twisting  around, jumping from my feet to my head, and 
quietly meowing as though it was hungry. ” 
    “But I gave it  plenty to  eat, and it never left  me during the entire  night.  You are dreaming 
things that are not true  again, Susana.”  
    “I’m telling you that it spent the night fright ening me with the way it was jumping .  And 
although your cat is very affectionate, I don’t want it with  me while I’m trying to sleep.”  
    “You’re seeing things, S usana.  That’s what it is .  When Pedro Par amo come s, I’ll tell him I 
can no longer put up wit h you.  I’ ll tell him I’m leaving.  There are plenty of other  people here 
that will give me work.   Not all of them are maniacs like you, nor do they keep on humiliating 
someone like y ou do.  Tomorrow I’ll take the cat and leave , and you will  be just fine. ” 
    “You will not leave here, poor mistreated  Justina.  You won’t go anywhere, because you will 
never find anyone who cares for you like I do.”  
    “No, you’re right, I won’t leav e, Susana.  I ca n’t leave.  You know very well that I am here to 
take care of you.  It doesn’t matter if  you sometimes make me complain;  and I’ll always  be here 
to take care of you.”  
    She had cared for her since she was born.  She had carried her in her arms.  She had helped her 
learn how to walk.  To take t hose steps that to her seemed  eternal.  She had seen her mouth and 
her eyes grow “like candy.”  “Peppermint is blue.  Yellow and blue; green and blue.  A cross 

between mint , and spearmint.”  She tickled her legs.  She entertained her by letting her suck her 
breasts  that had nothing in them , as though they were a toy.  “Play with it,” she said.  “Play with 
this little toy of yours.”  She c ould have crushed her to pieces.   
    Outside the  rain was falling on the leaves of the banana trees, and it seemed like the water was 
bubb ling on top of the water already on the ground.   
    The sheets were damp and cold.  Th e pipes were bubbling and emitting  foam, tired of working 
all day, and all night long .  The rain  kept on splashing  into a end less number of  bubbles.  
 
 
    It was midnig ht, and outsi de the noise of the downpour  was blocking out  all other sounds.   
    Susana San Juan slowly got out of bed.  She gradually straightened up and moved away from 
the bed.  Once again there was something pressing on her body, first on her feet an d then moving 
over her body, trying to find her face.  
    “Is that you , Bartolome?” she asked.  
    She seemed to hear the door creak, as if someone were either leaving , or ente ring.  And after 
that there was only the rain, intermittent, cold, pouring over the leaves of the banana trees,  and 
bubbling in its own bubble s. 
    She went back to sleep and did not wake up  until the light illuminated the red bricks , sprinkled 
with rain in the grey morning of a new day.  Sh e shouted:  
    “Justina!”  
    She appeared right away, as t hough she had already been in the room , with her body wrapped 
in a shawl . 
    “What do you want, Susana?”  
    “The cat.  I t was here  again .” 
    “Oh, that’s too bad, Susana.”  
    She leaned over an d put her arms around her, hugging her until she looked up and asked:  
    “Why are you crying?  I’ll tell Pedro Paramo that you’re always good to me.  I won’t te ll him 
anything about the problems  your cat has given me.  Don’t be like that, Justina.”  
    “Your father has di ed, Susana.  He died last night  and today they came here to tell us that there 
was nothing they could do.  T hey said they had already buried him,  that they couldn’t bring him 
here because it was too far away.  You have been left alone, Su sana.”  
    “Then it was him,” and she smiled.  “He came to say  goodbye to me,” she said , and then she 
smiled again.  
 
 
    Many years ago  when sh e was a child, he had said to  her: 
    “Drop down , Susana, and tell me what you see.”  
    She was hanging from r ope that was hurting her waist and bloodying her hands, but she didn’t 
want to let go; it was like the last thread that connected her to the outside world.  
    “I don’t see anything, Papa.”  
    “Look carefully, Susana.  Try to find something.  
    He moved the lamp so it would give her more light.  
    “I still don’t see anything, Papa.”  
    “Okay, I’ ll let you d own fa rther.  L et me know  when you reach the ground. ”   
    She had entered through a  small  hole betwe en the boards.  She had walked  over some old , 
rotting planks and  cracks that were filled with dirt. 

    “Go down farther, Susana, a nd you will find what I told you .” 
    And she dropped down  farther  and started  rocking , her feet swaying back and forth, crying 
out, “I can’t find a ny place to put my feet.”  
    “Go farther down, Susana.  Farther down.  Tell me if you see anything.”  
    And when she fin ally found a place for her feet  she stayed there and said nothing, because she 
was speechless with fear.  The lamp light spread out, and a s hout from above startled her.  
    “Give me what  is there, Susana.”  
    And she picked up  the skull, and when the light made her  see it clearly, she let go of it.  
    “It’s the skull of a dead person,” she said.  
    “You should find some thing else next to i t.  Give me  everything you find.”  
    The cadaver had dissolved  into bones; the jawbone had broken off  as if it was  made of  sugar.  
She gave him the bones one at a time , until she came to the toes, handing over  one joint after 
another.  And then the round ball of the skull broke up in her hands.   
    “Look for something else, Susana.  Money.  Round pieces of gold.  Look for them, Susana.”  
    And then she didn’t reme mber any more, except when many days later she was confronted by 
the icy glare  of her father.  
    Remembering that was why she was laughing now.  
    “I knew it was you, Bartolome.”  
    And poor Justina who was weeping her heart out, rose to see  that she was laughing, and that  
her laughter was becoming  even louder.  
    Outside it was  still raining.  The Indians had gone.   It was Monday , and the valley of Comala 
was still saturated with rain.  
 
 
    There were strong winds on  all th ose days.  They were  the same winds that brought the rain .  
The rain was  gone , but the wind was still the re.  Out in the fields the leaves of the corn  had 
turned golden , and the corn was lying in t he furrows, protect ing itself from the wind.  During  the 
daytime the wind  was tolerable;  it twisted the ivy  and crackled the tiles on the rooftops; but at 
night it  was constantly howling.  Banks of silent clouds passed by , as though they were scraping 
against the ground.  
    Susana San Juan hears  the wind rattling  the window pane.  She i s lying on the bed with her 
arms behind her he ad and thinking , as she listens  to the sounds of the night  that a re coming and 
going, dragged by the endless force of the wind.   But then it stops  for a moment.  
    Someone has  opene d the door.  A gust of wind blows out the lamp.  She looks  at the dar kness 
and wonders.  She can sense  small movements.  Right away she feels  her heart beating with 
irregular palpitations.  Through  her closed eyelids she can  see a gleam of light.  
    She doesn’t open her eyes.  Her hair has fallen down over her face.  The light reveals some 
drops of sweat on her lips.  She asks:  
    “Is that you, Father?”  
    “I am your F ather, my child.”  
    She opens her eyes a bit .  Through  the strands of  her hair she can see a shadow on th e ceiling, 
with a head leaning over  her face.  And in front of her a blurry figure i s visibl e through her damp 
eyelashes.  She saw a dim light  in the location of her heart,  in the shape of a heart, shaking  like a 
flickering flame.  “Your heart is dying with pain,” she thinks.  “ I know you are coming to tell me 
Florencio has died; but I al ready know that.  Don’t be upset about others;  don’t worry about me.  
I have hidden my pain in a safe place.  Don’t let your heart stop beating.”  

    She raised  her body up, and dragged it  over toward  where  Padre Renteria  was.   
    “Let me console you with my sorrow!” he said, protecting the flame of the candle with his  
hands.  
    Father Renteria motioned for her to approach him.  He watched her put her hands around the 
flame of the candle and then place her face against the burn ing wick until the odor of scorched 
flesh made him s hake her and blow out the candle . 
    Then the da rkness returned, and she quickly went to hide herself under  the sheets.  Father 
Renteria said:  
    “I have come to comfort you, child.”  
    “Then goodbye,  Father,” she replied.  “Don’t come back .  I don’t need you.”  
    And she heard the sound of his foot steps retreating, leaving her with  a sensation of coldness, 
of shivering, and fear.  
    “Wh y do you come to see me, if you  are dead?”  
    Father Renteria closed the door  and went out into the night .  The will was still blowing.  
 
 
    A man they called  the stutter er came to Media Luna and asked for Pedro Paramo.  
    “Why are you looking for him?”  
    “I want to ta talk to  him.”  
    “He’s n ot here.”  
    “Tell him, whwhen he returns, that I have come on pa part of Don Fulgor.”  
    “I will tell him, but you will have to wait several hours.”  
    “Tell him it’s a m amatter of urgency.”  
    “I’ll tell him.”  
    Still sitting on his horse , the man t hey called the s tutterer  started waiting .  Some time passed, 
and Pedro Paramo, who had not  seen him  before, finally came to talk to  him:  
    “What do you want?”  
    “I need to speak pe personally with the Patron .” 
    “That’s me.  What do you want?”  
    “Well, ju just this.  They  killed Don Fulgor Se Sedano.  I was with him.  We were going out to 
the hi hillside to see why th ere has been so little wa water.  And while we were wa walking, a gang 
of men ap peared  in front of us .  And from  that gagang  I heard a voice that shouted : “I kn know 
that one.  He’s the mamanager of Media Luna.”  
     “They didn’t pa pay any attention to me , but they to  told Don Fulgor to stop.  They told him 
they were re revolutionaries, and that they had come for your lands.  ‘Go  and tell him!’ they told 
Don Fulgor.  ‘T ell yo ur boboss that we’re coming to see him !’  A nd he started rurunning, filled 
wiwith fear  He was no t very fast, bebecause of how heavy he is; but he ran.  The n the y killed 
him while he  was running.  He died wi with one leg up, and the other down.”  
    “After that  I didn’t m omove.  I waited until it was night, and then I came here to tell you what 
hahappened.”  
    “So what are you waiting for?  Why don’t you get moving?  Go and tell those men  that I’m 
waiting  here to see what they want .  Let them come and deal with me.  But before you do that, go 
over to La Consagracion.  Do you know Tilcuate?  He’ll be there.  Tell him I need to see him.  
And tell those guys that I’ m waiting  to see them , whenever  they come.  What  group of 
revolutionaries are they?”  
    “I don’t know.  They never me mentioned a name.”  

    “Okay, I’ll do that, ssir .” 
    Pedro Paramo went into his office and closed the door.  He felt old and worn out.  He did n’t 
care that much about Fulgor who, af ter all, cared more about others than about him .  He had  only 
done what he was told  to, although he was quite useful .  “At any rate, ” he thought  to himself , 
“Tilcuate ’s men  will take care of those fools.”  
    He thought again  about Susana San Juan who always  was in her room  sleeping  and, when she 
wasn’t, looking as if she were  sleeping.  He had spent the previous  night leaning against the wall, 
looking through the dim light of the bed lam p at the movements of Susana ; her face sweating, 
her hands tugging  the shee ts, and squeezing the pillow, until she finally fell asleep.  
    Since he had brought her to live here, he had seen nothing but these stressful nights of constant 
uneasiness, a nd he wondered when it w as going to end.   
    He hoped  that it wouldn’ t be too long, because nothing  you are feeling  should last that long.   
There was no memory,  or anything else,  no matter h ow intense it was, that should not  eventually 
calm down.  
    If only  he knew what it was that had upset her so  badly that it made her twist and turn without 
being able to sleep , so that it seemed like she was breaking up inside.  
    He thought he knew her.  And even if that were not the case, s houldn’t it have been enough  for 
her to know that he loved her more than anyone else on earth?  And also , and this was even more 
impo rtant, sh e made it possible for  him to go through  life animated by a  person who would erase 
all other memories.  
    But what was the world of Susana San Juan?  That was one of the things that Pedro Paramo 
was never able to know . 
 
 
    “My b ody was enjoying  the heat from the sand.  I had my eyes clos ed, my arms open  and my 
knees bent, relishing the soft breeze from the sea.  The water stretched out in front of me and  the 
waves  splashed , leaving their foam on my feet  when  the tide  came in…”  
    “Now it is definitely Susana  who is talking, Juan Preciado.  Don’t forget to tell me what she is 
saying.”  
    “…It was early.  The t ide was coming in and bringing  its waves.   It dropped  its foam and then  
went back out again  cleansed , with it s green water  still in gentle  waves.”  
    “When I swim in the sea, I can only do it when I’m  naked” I told him.  “And he came wit h me 
that first day, also naked  and phosphorescent , when he came  out of the s ea.  There weren’t any 
seagulls,  only those birds they call  ‘picos feos’ that grunt like they are snoring , and disappear 
after the sun comes out.  He stayed with me th at first day  and he felt lonely , in spite of the fact 
that I was there with him.”  
    “It’s l ike I am just one more ‘pico  feo’ among all the others.” he told me.  “ I like you  more  at 
night , when the two of us are sleeping together under the sheets, in the darkness.”  
    “And  then he left .” 
    “And I came back.  I would al ways come back.  The sea moistens  my ankles,  it moist ens my 
knees , and my thighs; it wraps its soft arm around my waist, and flows  over my breasts; it hugs 
my neck  and presses  against my shoulders.  Then I dive into it; I  surrender myself  completely  to 
its powerful wave s, to its gentle caress, without holdin g back anything.”  
    “I told him that I love to swim in the sea.”  
    “But he doesn’t understand how I feel .” 

     “And  the next day I went back to the sea again .  Purify ing myself, and s ubmitting  myself to 
its waves.”  
 
 
    Late that afternoon the men ap peared.  They came armed with rifles, wearing bandoliers  
crossed over their chests.  There were about twenty of them.  Pedro Paramo invited them to eat 
supper at the table, and they waited silently.  When the food came one only heard them sip  the 
cocoa,  and chew tortilla after tortilla.  
    Pedro Paramo watched them.  There were  not any faces he recognized.  Tilcuate was i n the 
shadow s right behind him . 
    “Gentlemen,” he said when he saw they were done eating, “how can I help you?”  
    “Are you the o wner of this ranch ?” one of the men  asked, waving his hand.  
    “But another one interrupted him, saying:  
    “I’m the one to do the talking  here!” 
    “All right.  How can I help you?” Pedro Paramo asked again.  
    “As you can see, we have taken up arms.”  
    “And?”  
    “And that’s all you can say?   You think that’s nothing.?”  
    “But why have you done that?”  
    “Because that’s what others have also done.  Don’ t you know that?  Wait for a while  until our 
orders arrive , and they will explain our  cause.  Fo r the moment, we are here.”  
    “I know our  cause,” anot her said.  “And since you asked , I will explain.  We have rebelled 
against the government, and against the rest of you because we are tired of putting up with you.  
Against the government , because it is despicable, and against you , because you are nothing more 
than some crooked thieves  and greedy robbers.  And I won’t say anything about the Governor, 
because we are going to use bullets to tell him what we want to say.”  
    “How much do you need to cont inue your revolution?” Pedro Paramo asked.  “Perhaps I could  
help you.”  
    “What he is saying sounds like a good idea, Perseverancio.  You shouldn’t let you r words get 
in the way .  We need a rich man to give us something in advance, and who could do that  better 
than this man here?  What about you, Casildo; how much do you think we need?”  
    “He sh ould give us whatever he feels like giving .” 
    “This one wouldn’t  even  give water to a rooster at dawn .  We should take advantage of the 
fact that w e are here  in order to make  him give us all the bread he has in his s tinking craw.”  
    “Calm down, Perseverancio.  You can accomplish  more by being  nice to someone.  Lets  come 
to an agreement.  Go ahead and tell us what you think, Casildo.”  
    “Well I  think that about tw enty thousand pesos  wouldn’t be bad to start  with.  What do you 
think?  But who knows if this gentleman might not think that is too little, considering that he is 
willing to help us.  Let’s say fifty  thousand.  Are we agreed?”  
    “I am going to giv e you one hundred thousand pesos,”  Pedro Paramo told them.  “How many  
of you are there? ”    
    “Ther e are three hundred.”  
    “Okay, I am going to give you three hundred more men to enlarge your contingent.  In a week 
you will have both the men and the mo ney at your disposal.  I am giving you the money, but I 
am only loaning the men.  When they are done, send them back to me.   Is that satisfactory?”  
    “But of course.”  

    “Then  eight days from now, gentlemen.  It has been a pleasure to meet you.”  
    “Yes,” said one of them as they left.  “ Just remember that if you don’t live up t o your promise, 
you will hear P erservancio speak again, because  that’s what my name is .”  
    Pedro said goodbye to him, shaking  his hand.  
    “Who do you think is the leader of  that bun ch?” he asked Tilcuate when they were gone . 
    “Well, it looks to me like it’s that potbellied one in the middle who didn’t even raise his eyes.  
I thin k it’s him…  I’m usually right  about things like this, Don Pedro.”  
    “Yes, Damasio, you’re in charge  here.  Or do you not want to get involved in this uprising?”  
    “But I can hardly wait.  You know how much I like a good brawl.”  
    “You saw what we  are dealing with here, so you don’t need my advice.  Just get together three 
hundred men that y ou trust, and join up with these rebels.  Tell them you are bringing the men 
that I promised them.  As for the rest, you’ll know how to handle that.”  
    “And what should I tell them abou t the money?  Do I give them that too?”  
    “I’m going to give you ten pesos for each one of them.  Then just enough for their most urgent 
expenses.  Tell them I am keeping the rest here for when they need it.  It’s not a good idea to 
have too  much money wandering  around in groups  like these .  And by the way, would you like 
to have that little ranch at  Puerta de  Piedra?  If so,  from now on it’s yours.  You’ll take a 
message to Attorney Gerardo Truji llo, in Comala,  and have him put your name on  the property.  
What do you say, Damasio?”  
    “You do n’t have to ask that, sir.  With it, or without it, I would do all this gladly.  And  you 
already know that.  Anyway, I thank you very much.  My old woman will have something to do 
that she enjoys , while I have a good time.”  
    “And  while you’re there rust le up a few cows.  What that ranch needs is some new activity.”  
    “Is it okay if they are oxen?”  
    “Choose whatever you like, and your wife can take care of them.  Going back to our matter, 
try not to go too far away from my lands, so that if others co me, they will see that the land is 
already occupied.   And come and see  me whenever you can, or whenever you have news.”  
    “Okay, I’ll see you boss.”  
 
 
    “What is she saying, Juan Preciado?”  
    “She says she was hiding her feet between his legs.  That her feet were stone cold , and that 
there they were warmed like they were in the oven where you brown the bread.  She said he was 
biting her feet , telling her that they we re like bread browned in the oven.  She said she snuggled 
up next to him , feeling  lost in nothingness as she felt  like her flesh  was opened by a hot nail , then 
warm, t hen gentle, pressing  against  her soft flesh;  then sinking, and sinking  even  more, unt il she 
moaned.   But his death had hurt her even more .  That’s what she says.”  
    “Wh o was she referring to?”  
    “To someone who died before she did, certainly.”  
    “But who could it have been?”  
    “I don’t know.  She said on that night he had been late coming back,  she thought it must have 
been in the middle of the night, or maybe at d awn.  She hardly noticed it because her feet  that 
had been  so cold seemed like they were  wrapped in something .  Like someone had wrapped 
them in something that warmed them up.  When she woke up , she found that they were wrapped  
in a newspaper she had been reading whi le she waited for him and let fall on the floor when she 

no longer could keep from falling asleep.  And there she was , with her feet wrapped in a 
newspaper , when they came to tell her that he had died.  
    “Something must have  broken the casket they buried  her in, because  I can hear something like 
boards cracking .” 
    “Yes, I hear it too.”  
 
 
    “That night the dreams came back  again.  Why did she have all these vivid  memories of those  
things that happened?  Why not just of death, and not all this sad music of the past?”  
    “Florencio is dead , senora.”  
    “How big  that man was!  How  tall!  And his voice was hard.  As dry as the driest ground.  And 
his figure was blurred.  Or did it become blurred afterward, as if the rain had fallen between t he 
two of them?  What had he said ?  Florencio ?  Whose  Florencio  was she talking about?  M ine?  
Oh!, why didn’t I cry and drown myself in tears  in order  to wash away  my grief.  Lord, you do 
not exist!  I asked you to protect him.  To take care of him.  I as ked you that.  But you only care 
about soul s.  And what I want is his body that is  naked and war m with love, burning with  desire ; 
I want to feel him pressing against my trembling breasts, and my arms.  My transparent body 
hanging  from his.  My light body , open and free to his power .  Now , what am  I going to  do with 
my painful  lips?”  
    While Susana San Juan was tossing and turning restlessly, Pedro Paramo  was standing in  the 
doorway, watching her as  he counted the seconds of her  new dream that had already lasted for a 
long time.  The oil in the lamp w as cra ckling, and the flame flickered,  becoming weaker and 
weaker , until it went out.  
    If at least it were  pain that she was feeling, and not these interminable and exhausting dreams, 
he might be able to find some relief for her.  That was what Pedro Paramo was thinking, his eyes 
fixed on Susana San Juan, watching  each one of her movements.   And what  if she also fad ed out  
when the flame  of the lamp with which he saw her  also went o ut? 
    After that he left, closing the door as quietly as possible.  Outside , the fresh night air removed  
the image of Susana San Juan  from Pedro Paramo.  
    She woke up shortly before dawn.  Feeling h ot and s weating , she tossed the heavy blankets on 
the floor  and relieved herself from the warmth  of the sheets.  Then her naked body was refr eshed 
by the cool morning breeze.  She sighed , and then went back to sleep again.  
    That was how Father Ren teria found her hours later ; naked, and asleep.  
 
 
    “Don Pedro, did you know  they defeated Tilcuate?  
   “I know that last ni ght there was an exchange of shots  because I heard all the noise, but I didn’t 
know anything more.  Who told you that, Gerardo?”  
    “Some wounded  men who came back  to Comala .  My wife helped to bandage their wounds.   
They said they are some of Dama sio’s men, and that many others were killed.  It seems  that they 
encountered some who turned out to be  men of Pancho Villa.”  
    “That’s not good , Gerardo!  These are bad times we a re having.   And wh at about you; what do 
you plan  to do?”  
    “I am leaving, Don Pedro.  I am going to Sayula.  I will reestablish myself there.”  
    “You lawyers have a big advantage; you can set up your patrimony wherever you like , and no 
one is going to give you a ban time .” 

    “Don’t believe that, Don Pedro; everywhere we go we run into problems.  Besides, we hate to 
leave people like you, and changes  like this make us  grow apart.  We keep breaking up our world 
all the time, if I may say so.  Where do y ou want me to leave the se papers?”  
    “Don’t leave them.  Take them with you.  Or does this mean that you can’t keep on taking  care 
of my affairs once you are  there?”  
    “I am thankful fo r your confidence, Don Pedro.  I am s incerely  thankful.  However, I ’m very  
sure that I wouldn’ t be able to do that.  Certain irregularities …  Let’s say…  Things that no one 
but you should know  about .  They could lead to shady dealings if they were to fall into the wrong 
hands.  The safest thing would be for you to keep th em.”  
    “Yes, you’re  right Gerardo.  Leave them here.  I will burn them.  With or without papers, w ho 
would be able to question my ownership of the property  here?” 
    “Undoubtedly no one, Don Pedro.  No one.  So, with your permission.”  
    “Go with God, Gerardo.”  
    “What did you say?”  
    “I mean, God be with you.”  
    The lawyer Gerardo Trujillo slowly departed.  He was now quite old, but not so old that he 
had to t ake such short steps.  The truth is that he had expected some compensation.  He had been  
the lawyer of Don Lucas, the father of Don Pedro,  may he rest in peace, and then of  Don Pedro.  
That is why he expected some compensation.  A large and valuable retribution.  He had even told 
his wife:  
    “I am going to say goodbye to Don Pedro.  I know he will reward me.  I think I c an say that  
with the money he gives me , we will be able to set up things  well in Sayula and live comfortably 
for the rest of our lives.”  
    But why is it that women are always so doubtful?  Do they get advice  from heaven, or what?  
She was doubtful that  he would get anything:  
    “You will have to work very h ard to get him to open his wallet .  If he’s like he  usually is, you 
will get nothing .” 
    “Why do you say that?”  
    “Because I know him.”  
    He continued walking  slowl y toward the door, hoping he would hear a call: “Hey, Gerardo.  I 
was so preoccupied with my affairs that it kept me from thinking about you.  But I owe you 
things that can’t be paid back with money.  So I’ll  give you this  little gift.”  
    But that call n ever came.  He passed through the door and unfastened the halter with which his 
horse was hooked to the post.  He climbed into the saddle and  as he left, trying not to leave  too 
quickly  in case there was a call, he headed for Comala.  When he saw that Medi a Luna was out 
of sight behind him, he thought: “ It would  demean me greatly if I were to  ask him for a loan.”  
 
 
    “Don Pedro, I have returned because I realized I hadn’t done the right thing.  I would gladly 
continue to handle your affairs.”  
    He said that sitting in the office of Pedro Paramo again, where he had been not more than a 
half an hour ago.  
    “That’s good; I’m glad, Gerardo.  There are the papers.  Right where you left them.”  
    “I would also like to have… For the expenses… For the transfe r… A small amount of money 
in advance…  A little extra, if it would be all right with you.”  
    “Five hundred pesos?”  

    “Coul d it be a little more , just a bit more?”  
    “Would a thousand be okay?”  
    “What about five?”  
    “Five what?  Five thousand pesos?  I don’t hav e that much.  You know that  everything has 
been going downhill lately.  The land, the animals.  You know that.  Take the thousand.  I don’t 
think you’ll need more than that.”  
    He lowere d his head and tho ught it over for a moment.  He heard the tinkle of pesos on the 
desk where Pedro Paramo was counting the money.  He remembered how Don Lucas had always 
given him something in advance.  He remembered how Don Pedro had changed  all of  that.  He 
also remembe red all the shameful  problems his son Miguel had caused  him. 
    He got him out of jail at least fifteen times, perhaps even more.  And th e time he had murdered 
that man…  what was his name?  Renteria, that was it.  The dead man called R enteria, who had  
put the pistol in his hand.  He remembered ho w frightened Miguel had been, though afterward he 
started laug hing.  How much would that have  cost Don Pedro if things had gone t hrough the 
usual legal process ?  And what about all of his rapes?  Ho w many times did  he have to use 
money from  his own pocket to get them to let things  go: “Just be happy you are going to ha ve a 
blonde -haired son!” he would tell  them.  
    “Here they are , Gerardo.  Take good care of them, because they won’t come again.”  
    And, still caug ht up in his perambulations, he replied:  
    “Yes, the dead don’t com e back either,” and he added, “u nfortunately.”  
 
 
    It was long before  dawn , and the sky was full of bright stars that had grown even brighter 
during  the long night.  The moon had come o ut a while ago, but now it was gone.  It was one of 
those sad moons that no one looks at, that no one pays attention to.  It was there for a while, and 
then it had gone to hide behind the hills.  
    Far away, lost  in the da rkness, the bellowing of bulls wa s heard.  
    “Those animals never sleep,” Damiana Cisneros said.  “They never sleep.  They’re like the 
Devi l who is always wandering about  looking for souls in order to take them to hell.”  
    She turned over in bed, moving her face closer to the  wall.  Th en she heard the noise s. 
    She stopped breathing and opened her eyes.  Again s he heard three sharp sounds  as if someone 
was banging  on the wall with their  knuckles.  No t there where she was, but farther away , on the 
same wall.  
    “Oh, my God!  It must be the three taps of Saint Paschal Baylon who was coming to inform 
one of his devotees  that the hour of their death had arrived.”  
    She didn’t worry that , because of  her rheumatism,  some tim e ago she had missed the Novena ; 
but s he began to feel fear, and more than fear, curiosity.  
    She got out of bed and went to look out of the window.   The fields were dark, however, 
because  she knew him s o well she recognized the huge  body of Pedro Paramo who was pounding 
on the window of the  maid, Margarita.  
    “Oh, that Don Pedro!” Damiana said.  He never stop s chasing after  women.  What I do not 
understand  is why he likes to do  those th ings so secretl y.  If he had asked  me, I would have told 
Margarita that  he needed her for tonight , and he  wouldn’t have had to drag her out of bed.  
    She closed the window when she heard the bulls bellowing.  She laid down on the bed , putting 
her hands over her ears, thinking about what  must be happening now with maid Margarita.  
    Somewhat later she had t o take off her nightgow n, because the night had become  so warm…  

    “Damiana!” she heard.  
    Then she was a  young  woman  again . 
    “Open the door  for me , Damiana!”  
    Her heart trembled, as though there was a toad hopping over her ribs.  
    “But why, Don  Pedro ?” 
    “Open up, Damiana!”  
    “But I am sleep ing , Don Pedro .”  
    Afterward, she could hear  that Don Pedro was walking away through the long hallway, 
stomping his feet like he always did when he was angry.  
    The following night , so he would have  no difficulty  getting in, and in order to avoid another 
ruckus, she left the do or ajar and even  took her clothes  off.  But Ped ro Paramo never came back . 
     Because of that, n ow when she was in charge of all the servants of Media Luna and they 
respected her, now  when  she was  older, she remembered that night when  Pedro Paramo shouted 
at her: “Open the door  for me , Damiana!”  
    And she went to bed thinking about how happy maid Margarita must be at this moment.  
    Then once again she heard knocking , but t his time on the front do or, as though  someone was 
banging on it with their foot.  
    Once more she opened the window and looked out into the night.  She didn’t see anything, 
although it seemed like the ground was full  of tremors , like when it had rained an d the worms 
came out of  the ground.  She felt so mething coming, like the heat from  many men.  She heard 
frogs croaking and crickets chirping; a calm  night when  it was raining.  Then , once again she 
heard someone banging on the door.  
    A lamp spread  its light over the face s of some men.  Then it went out.  
    “Things like this  don’t interest me ,” said Damiana Cisneros  and closed the window.  
 
 
    “They told me that you were defeated , Damasio.  Why did you let that happen ?” 
    “They were mistaken , boss.  Nothing happened to me.   All my men are here, and  I now have 
as many as seven hundred after a few more have joined us.  What happened was that some of the 
older men , who were tired of not having any action , started firing at a group of men that turned 
out to be a whole  army.  Have you heard about Pancho  Villa?  
    “Where did tho se guys come from?”  
    “They cam e from the north, defeating  everyone they meet .  According to what we’ve seen , 
they are going everywhere , and gaining ground wherever they go.  They  are very powerful.  No 
one is going to be able to stop them. ” 
    “And why don’t you join up with them ?  I have already told you , we have to stick w ith those 
who are winning .” 
    “I already did that.”  
    “Then why did you come to see me?”  
    “We need m oney, Boss .  We are tired of eating meat.  That doesn’t satisfy  us any more.  A nd 
no one wants to trust us.  W e have come so you can provide for us,  and we  won’t have to feel the 
need  to rob  someone else.  If we w ere farther out there somewhere  it wouldn’t  bother us to see 
what we could get;  but here we’ re all rela ted, and and we feel guilty about robbing  someone .  So 
the end of the story is  we need money to buy something, even if it’s  from  a fat woman with chili.  
We have had our fill of meat.”  
    “Are you trying to demand something from me, Damasio?”  

    “Not at all, boss.  I am only making a plea for the men,  and as far as I’m concerned , there is no 
hurry.”  
    “It’s good that you are trying to  take care of your men; but get  what you need from some one 
else.  I have already given you plenty.  Be satisfied with what I gave you.  And understand that 
that’s not just  a recommendation.  W hy haven’t you thought about looting Contla?  Why do you 
think you have joined a revolution?  If you are going to ask f or charity, you’re behind time s.  It 
would be better  for you and your wife to go take care of the chickens.  Go ahead and loot  some 
town!  If you are  risking your neck, why in the devil don ’t you make others do their share ?  
Contla is full of rich people.  So take a bit from them .  Or maybe they think you’ re their 
nursemaid and you’re suppose d to take care of their interests?  No, Damasio.  Make  them see 
you’re not playing games.  Give it  a try, and you’ll see how you get  all the money you need .” 
    “Thank s, Boss.  I always get something helpful from you.”  
    “Then  may it help you.”  
    Pedro Paramo watched , as the men were leaving.  He felt  the horses  trotting through the 
darkness  in front of him.  The sweat, the dust, and the trembling ground.   When he saw fireflies 
with their lights sparkling again, he realized all of the men were  gone.  He was left  alone, like a 
strong  trunk that was beginning to break apart  inside.  
    He thought about Susana San Juan.  And then he thought about the girl he had slept with a 
short time ago.  That sm all body, aroused and trembling , that  seemed like it was going to  send its 
heart o ut through its mouth.  “A tiny  handful  of flesh,” he called  her.  And he had embraced  her, 
trying to imagine she was  Susana San Juan.   “A woman who was not of this world.”  
 
 
    At the start  of dawn, the day was slowly turning around.  You could almost hea r the earth’s 
rusty hinges squeaking; the vibra tion of this old earth that turns over  its darkness.  
    “Is it right  that the night is full of sins, Justina?”  
    “Yes, Susana.  
    “And i s that really true?”  
    “It must be, Susana.”  
    “Then what could this life be, Justina, except one big sin?  Don’t you hear?  Don’t you hear 
how the ground is creaking?”  
    “ No, S usana, I can’t  hear anything.  I’m not as lucky  as you .”  
    “You would be amazed then.  I’m telling you that you would be amazed to hear what I am 
hearing.”  
    Justina continued cleaning the room and put ting things in order.  She rubbed  the floor cloth on 
the moist floorboards.  She wiped the water off the broken flowerpot.  She picked up the flowers.  
She put the glasses  in a bucket full of water.  
    “How many birds have you killed during  your life, Justina?”  
    “Many, Susana.”  
    “And didn’t that make you feel sad?”  
    “Yes it did, Susana.”  
    “Then what are you expecting when you  die?”  
    “Death, Susana.”  
    “If it’s nothing more than that, it will come .  Don’t worry.”  
    Susana San Juan was lying on the pillows.  Her re stless eyes were shifting in different  
directions .  Her hands were over her abdomen, stuck to her abdomen  like a protective shield.  

There were deli cate buzzing noises that floated  over her head like wings.  Also  the noise  of the 
pulleys in the waterwheel.  And t he noises  people make when they wake up.  
    “Do you believe in hell, Justina?”  
    “Yes, Susana.  And also in heaven.”  
    “I only believe in hell,” she said  and then closed her eyes.  
    By the time Justina left the room  Susana San Juan had fallen asleep again , and outside the sun 
was shining .  Justina  met Pedro Paramo on the road.  
    “How is the lady?”  
    “Not good,” she told him, bowing her head.   
    “Is she complaining?”  
    “No, sir, she doesn’t complain about anything; but they say the dea d can no longer complain.  
The lady is lost to us.”  
    “Didn’t Father Renteria come to see her?”  
    “Last night he ca me and gave her confession.  Today she should have received communion, 
but she must not be in a state of grace because Father Renteria di dn’t come to give  communion.  
He said he would do that early this morning, but as you see the sun is ou t and he hasn’t come.  
That must be because she is not in a state of grace.”  
   “In grace with  whom?”  
   “With  God, sir.”  
    “Don’t be a fool, Justina.”  
    “As you say, sir.”  
    Pedro Paramo opened the door and went to stand  next t o her, letting the sunlight spread  over 
Susana San J uan.  He saw her eyes were tightened  like someone who feels pai n inside; her  moist  
lips were partly  open , and the sheets  were  pushed  down by her unconscious hands , revealing  the 
nakedness of her body that was  twist ing and turn ing with convulsions.  
    He walked over to  the bed and covered her naked body that continued writhing like a worm in 
spasms, becoming more and more agitated .  He bent over her and s aid, “Susana!” And he said  
again , “Susana!”  
    The door opened and Fathe r Renteria quietly  entered , then  saying: “I have come to give you 
communion, my child.”  
    He waited until Pedro Paramo lifted her up so that she was  leaning against the back of the bed.  
Still half asleep, Susana San Juan stuck out her tongue and then swallowed the host.  After that 
she said: “ We ha ve had some  very happy times  together, Florencio .”  And then she sank down 
and buried herself in the she ets again.  
 
 
    “Do you see that window, Dona Fausta, there in Media Luna  where the light is always on ?” 
    “No, Angeles, I don’t see any window.”  
    “That’s because it’s dark right now.   Could something bad have happened in Media Luna?  
For more than three years  that window has been lighted , night after night.  Those who have been 
there  say that it’ s the room inhabited by the wife of Pedro Paramo, a poor , crazy  woman who is 
frightened by darkness.  And just look;  now the light is turned  off.  Isn’t tha t a bad sign?”  
    “Maybe she died.  She was very sick .  They say that she no longer recog nizes  people , and she 
talks  to herself.  Pedro Paramo certainly got what he deserved when he married  that woman.”  
    “Too bad for Don Pedro.”  
    “No, Fausta.  He deserves that , and a lot more.”  

    “See, the window is still dark.”  
    “Stop worrying about that window, and let’ s go and get some sleep.  It is ver y late for a couple 
of old women like us to go wandering alone through the streets.”  
    And the two women , who had come out of the church very close to eleven o’clock that night, 
began to disappear under the arches, watching how the shadow of a man was passing through th e 
plaza  in the direction of Media Luna.   
    “Look, Dona Fausta, don’t you think that man  walking over there is doctor Valencia?”  
    “It could be, though I’ m so weak -sighted I probably w ouldn’t recognize him.”  
    “You must  remember that he always wears white  pants, and a  black  jacket.  I bet something 
bad has happened  in Media Luna.  Look ho w fast  he’s wa lking, as if something were  making 
him hurry.”  
    “I hope  it’s not true that something serious has happened.  I feel like going back and tellin g 
Father Renteria to go there and  see what’s happening.  I t would be a shame if that woman died 
without a confession.”  
    “Don’t think that, Angeles.  God wouldn’t want that.  After all she has suffered in this life, no 
one would want her  to pa ss away without the last rights  and then continue  suffering in the next 
life.  Although the spiritualists sa y that a confession doe sn’t benefit someone who is mad  and, 
even when their soul is impure  they are innocent.  God only knows…  Look,  now the light is on.  
I pray to God  that everything turns out  to be  all right.  Imagine what would happen to all the 
work we have done to restore the church and  make it ready for the Nativity  if someone were to 
die in that house.  With the p ower  Pedro Paramo has,  that would ruin all that we have done  in no 
time at all.”  
    “You ’re always expect ing the worst is going to happe n, Fausta.  It’s b etter to do what I  always 
do: e ntrust  it to the Divine Providence.  Recite an Ave Maria to  the Virgin  and I am sure nothing 
bad will come of it.  Then after that,  God’s will be done  because, when all’s said and done,  she 
must not have bee n very happy in this life.”  
    “Believe me, Angeles, you always restore my spirits.  I am going to s leep and let my dreams 
have  these thoughts.  They say the thoughts of your dreams go directly to heav en.  I hope that 
mine will be able to travel  that high .  I’ll see you tomorrow.”  
    “See you tomorrow, Fausta.”  
    Then the  two women both walked  to the front door of the ir houses , and went inside.  After that  
the silence of the night descended over the town.  
 
 
    “I have my mouth filled with dirt.” 
    “Yes, Father.”  
    “Don’t  say ‘Yes, Father.’  Repeat after  me what I am saying to you.”  
    “What are you going to say to me?  Are you going to have me confess  again?  Why do we 
have to do that  again?”  
    “This is not going to be a nother  confession, Susana.  I only came to talk with  you, and prepare 
you to die .” 
    “Now I’m going to die?”  
    “Yes, child.”  
    “Then why don’t you leave m e in peace?  I feel like sleeping .  They must have  told you to 
come keep me awake .  That you should st ay here with me until  I’m not  sleepy .  How would I be 
able to get  enough sleep  then?  No , Father.  Why don’t you go away and leave me alone?”  

    “I will leave you in peace, Susana.  As long as you keep on repeating the wo rds I say to you, 
you will soon st art feeling sleepy.  You wil l feel as if you are falling a sleep.  And once you are 
sleeping, no one will wake you up…  You will never wake  up again.”  
    “All right then, I’ll do what you say.”  Sitting on the side of the bed, his hands pressing on t he 
shoulders of Susana San Juan  with his mouth al most touching her ear, Father Renteria  said each 
of his words  softly : “I have my mouth filled with dirt.”  He stopped for a moment to see if her 
lips were moving.  He saw t hem stutter  without making any sound . 
    “I have my mouth filled with you, with your mouth.  Your lips pressed hard against mine, as if 
they were trying to bite me …” 
    She stopped too, and looked at Father Renteria  out of  the corner of her eye,  as if he she saw 
him from a distance , behind a misty glass.   But then she heard his voice in her ear  again : 
    “He swallowed foamy saliva; he  chewed clods of dirt swarming with worms that  crawled over 
my throat and scraped the roof o f my mouth…  My mouth twists and distorts  into a grimace, 
pierced  by teeth that  chew  and devour it.  My nose softens.  The gelatin of my eyes melts.  My 
hair burns with  a single flame…”  
    He was surprised at  how quiet Susana San Juan was.  He would have liked to know  what she 
was thinking  and se e her heart struggle  as it tried to reject the images he was placing  insid e her.  
He looke d at her eyes  and she looked back.  It seemed to him like her lips were trying to smile. ” 
    “Someth ing else i s missing.  The vision  of God.  The soft light of His  infinite heaven.  The joy 
of the cherubs , and the song of seraphs.  The happiness of the eyes of God, the last fleeting sight  
of those condemned to eternal sorrow.  The marrow of our bones set on fire, and the veins of our 
blood in little streams of fire, making us squirm with incred ible pain that never ends, always 
stoked by the ire of God .” 
    “He sheltered me in his arms.  He filled me with love.”  
    Father Renter ia looked at all the t hose who were  waiting for the final moment.   Pedro Paramo , 
with his arms crossed , waited by  the door; then do ctor Valencia, and next to them  some other 
men.  Behind them were some  women who should have started saying the prayer for the dead.  
    He wanted to get up and administer  the h oly oils to the dying woman,  saying: “I am finished .”  
But no , he couldn’t d o that , because she still hadn’t died .  He cou ldn’t give her the sacraments  
without knowing the measure of her repentance.  
    He began to have doubts.  Maybe  she didn’ t hav e anything to repent for.  Perhaps  there was 
nothing to forgive her  for.  He b ent over and, shaking her shoulders, he said in a low voice:  
    “Soon you will be in the presence of God, a nd the way He  punishes  sinners is  merciless .” 
    When he leaned down  to her ear again, she shook her head saying:  
    “Go away Father!  Don’t torment yourself  because of me.  I am fine, I just need some  sleep.”  
    There was  a sob  from one of the women hidden in the shadows.  Then , Susana San Juan 
seemed to recover her strength.  She raised up in bed and said:  “Justina, please do me the f avor 
of going somewhere else to cry!”  
    After that she felt her head fall over and bury itself in her stomach .  She tried to separa te her 
head from h er stomach; to  stop it  from  pressing against her eyes and cutting off her breath ing; 
but each time  she tried that she convulsed even more , as if she were  sinking into the darkness.  
 
 
    “I saw Dona Susana die.”  
    “What are  you say ing, Dorotea?”  
    “What I just finished telling you: ” 

    At dawn , the people were waiting  for the bells to ring .  It was a morning  in December, a grey 
morning; not cold,  but grey.  The ringing started with the largest bell, and then the others 
followed.  Some thou ght it was the call  for morning Mass and began to open their doors; a few 
others  who had been unable to sleep  were waiting  for the bell to tell them the night had ended.  
But the pealing lasted  much  longer than usual.   Not only the bells of the First  Church were 
ringing, but also those of Shrine.  Midday came and the bells still had  not stopped ringing.  Then 
night came.  A ll day and all night , the bells continued pealing, sounding even louder , until it 
became an endless lamentation of sounds.  Men shouted so others could hear what they said: 
“What on earth has happened?” they asked.  
    After three days , everyone  was deafened.  It was impossible to talk , with the uproar that still  
filled the  air.  But it  didn’t stop;  it continued until some of the bells were worn out and began to 
sound hollow, like an empty jug.   
    “Dona Susana has died.”  
    “Died?  Who?”  
    “The wife.”  
    “Yours?  
    “No, Pedro Paramo ’s.” 
     People began to come from other places, attracted by the constant pealing.  From Contla they 
came  as though  they were on a pilgrimage.  They came  from far  away, who knows from where.  
Even a circus  came, with kites and flying chairs.  And musicians.   At first people  were curious, 
but after a  while they took it for granted , and there even were serenades .  Then little by little , it 
transformed into a celebration.  Comala was swarming with people , with an exuberance  of 
sounds  like on a day when there was a crowded party , and it was difficult to pass through town.    
    The bells finally stopped ringing, but the celebration continued.  There didn’t seem to be any 
way to make them understand that it  was a mourning, or days of  mourning.  And there didn’t 
seem to be any way to make them depart ; on the contrary, even more kept coming.  
    Media Luna was left alone , in si lence.  People walked quietly , and they spoke softly.  Susana 
San Juan  was buried , and f ew people from Comala knew about  it.  In Comala they were still 
celebrating.  There  were cockfights, there was music, there were shouts of drunken people, and 
lotteries.  The lig ht from Comala spread out , forming an  aurora in the grey sky.  But these were 
grey days, and sad days , for Media Luna.  Pedro Paramo did n’t speak.  He didn’ t come out of his 
room.  He swore to take vengeance on Comala.  
    “I will cross my arms , and Comala will die of hunger.”  
    And that’s what he did.  
 
 
    Tilcuate c ontinued to come :  
    “Now we’re followers of Carranza.”  
    “That’s good.”  
    “We are working with general Obregon.”  
    “That’s good.”  
    “Things are peaceful right now, so we have nothing to do at the moment.”  
    “Keep waiting, and don’t disarm you r men.  That can’t last very long.”  
    “Father Renteria has taken up arms.  Should we go with him, or against him?”  
    “Don’ t do that.  Put  yourself on the side of the government.”  
    “But we are irregulars.  They consider us rebels.”  

    “Then go take a rest.”  
    “With  all the responsibility I have ?” 
    “Do as  you like  then.”  
    “I will go an d reinforce Father  Renteria .  I like the way they shout.  Besides, that way we will  
win salvation.”  
    “Do as you like.”  
 
 
    Pedro Paramo  was sitting in an old wicker chair  next to the front gate  of Media Luna, shortly 
before the last shadow s of night di sappeared.  He had been  there alone  for maybe  three hours.  
He had  not slept.  He had forgotten about sleep, and the time of day: “We old f olks don’t sleep 
much, hardly at all .  Sometimes we sleep  for a short while , but without ceasing  to think.  That’s 
all I can do now.”  Then  he added , speaking louder : “It won’t be long now; it won’t be long.”  
    And he continued: “It’s a long time since you left me , Susana.  The light was the same then as 
it is now; not so reddish, but the same weak light without redness, w rapped in a blanket of white 
mist like it is now.  It was the same moment.  Here, next to the gate I watched it dawn, then  I 
watched  as you went away , following the path to heaven , when  the sky was beginning to show 
its lights that were beco ming more and more faded here among the shadows on  earth.”  
    “It was the last time I saw y ou.  You passed  by with your body brushing against the br anches 
of the fruit trees  along the side of the road , making the leave s flutter.  Then you were gone , and I 
said to  you: ‘Come back, Susana!’”  
    Pedro Paramo’s lips kept moving , whispering words.  After a while his mouth closed , and he 
opened his eyes in  which  the weak light of dawn was reflected.   
    Dawn was breaking.  
 
     
    At that same time Dona Ines, the mother of Gamaliel Villalpando, was sweeping the st reet in 
front of her son’s shop , when Abundio Martinez walked through the open door.   He fo und that 
Gamaliel had fallen asleep on the counter , with his hat over  his face  in order  to keep off the flie s.  
He waited a long time for him to wake up.  He had to wait until Dona Ines finished the task of 
sweeping the street , and came to tickle her son’s ribs wi th the handle of her broom, saying to 
him: “You’ve got a customer .  Wake up!”  
    Gamaliel straight ened up, grumbling , in a bad mood .  His  eyes were red, after staying up  so 
late the night before,  after accompanyin g his  drunk en friends  and getting  drunk himself.  Still 
sitting on the counter, he cursed his mo ther, he cursed himself, and he made endless curses about  
life, “a stupid  waste of time.”   Then he settled down on the counter again and  went ba ck to sleep , 
mutterin g curses:  
    “It’s not my fault that there are so ma ny drunks out there  late at night .” 
    “My poor son.”  
    “Forgive him,  Abundio.   Last night the poor fellow was trying to set up a deal with  some 
travelling salesmen who had too much to drink.  What b rings you here so early in the morning?”  
    She said that,  practically shouting , since  Abundio was deaf . 
    “I just wanted a bottle of whisky , which I need very much.”  
    “Has your Refugio become ill again?”  
    “She has died,  Mother Villa.  Just last n ight, about eleven o’clock.  Because of that  I sold my 
burros;  I had to do  that in order to try and help her .” 

    “I can’t hear what you ’re saying , Abundio .  Or is it because you’ re not saying anything?  What 
are you saying?”  
    “That I spent last night  watching over  her, over Refugio.  She stopped breathing last night.”  
    “So that’s why I smelled death.  Mind you, I even told Gamaliel: ‘It smells to me like someone 
in town has died.’  But he didn ’t pay any attention to me;  then he went out with those  travelling 
salesmen , and the poor fellow got drunk.  And you know that when he is lik e that he just laughs 
at things  and does not  pay attention to anything.  So  what can you tell me ?  Have you invited 
people to the funeral?”  
    “Not yet, Mother Villa .  That’s why I need the whisky, to sooth  my pain.”  
    “Do  you want it strong?”  
    “Yes, Mother Villa, so I can get drunk sooner.  And please give me it right away, because I’m 
in a hurry.”  
    “I will give you two deciliters for the price of one, since it i s you.  And while you’re at it, tell 
her that I always appreciated her, and ask her to  think about me when she gets to  heaven.”  
    “Yes, Mother Villa.”  
    “Tell her before her body gets cold.”  
    “Yes, I’ll tell her.  And she is also counting on you to pray for her.  And she would want me to 
tell you that she died feeling very sad , because there was no one to help her.”  
    “Didn’t you  go to see Father Renteria?”  
    “Yes, I  went; but they tol d me  that he was out somewhere  in the hills.”  
    “What hills? ” 
    “Out there in some  godfors aken place.  You know , where  they started a revolution.”  
    “So he joined them ?  Oh , poor us, Abundio.”  
    “But what does it  matter to us, Mother Villa.  It doesn’t have anything to do with us.  You can 
give me the other bottle n ow.  Here no one will know about it and, as you can see, Gamaliel has 
fallen asleep  again .” 
    “But don’t forget to ask Refugio to pray to God for  me, because I really need it .” 
    “Don’t torment yourself.  I will tell her just as soo n as I get h ome.  And I will ask  her to give 
me her word to do that,  in case it is necessa ry, so that you won’t have any more worries.”  
    “Yes, you should defini tely do that, becau se you know how women are.  Y ou have to ask them 
to do it right away.”  
    Abundio Mar tinez put another twenty cents on the counter.  
    “Give me the other bottle please, Mother Villa.  And i f you want to give it to me for nothing , 
it’s up to you.  The only thing I promise you is that I will go and drink this next to my dead wife; 
next to m y Cuca.”  
    “Go ahead and leave then , before my son wakes up.  He’s always in a bad mood when he  
wakes up after getting drunk.  Hurry along, and don’t forget to give my message to your wife.”  
    He left  the shop  sneezing.  By now it was completely light  outside, but since they had told h im 
this way he would get over things  more quickly, he took swallow after swallow, brushing ai r into 
his mouth with the flap  of his shirt.  He started  to go directly to his house where Refug io was 
waiting for him; but then  he changed direction and began to walk up the str eet; then he left  town  
and started walking  down the road to Media Luna . 
    “Damiana!” Pedro Paramo shoute d.  “Go and see what that man who is coming down the road  
wants .” 
    Abundio kept  on walking, stumbling, bowing his hea d, and sometimes walking on all fours . 
He felt like the gro und was twisting , turning  him around  and then letting him go .  He ran to catch 

up with it and  when he caught up with things , he kept on walking  until he was  in front of a man 
who was sitting next to  a doorway.  Then he stopped:  
    “Give me a little money , so that I can bury my wife,” he said.  
    Damiana Cisneros was praying: “Free us fr om the wiles of those who are evil , Lord.”  And she 
pointed her hands  at her body , makin g the sign of the cross.  
    Abundio Martinez saw the woman praying and crossing herself, and trembled.  He wondered 
if the devil had followed  him there, and he turned around , expecting to see some evil creature .  
But when he didn’t see anything , he said a gain: 
    “I have come here for some  help so that I can bury my wife.”  
    The sun was shining behind his back, a weak sun that had just come out , and was distorted by 
clouds of dust.  
    Pedro Paramo’s face was hidden be neath his poncho , as if he were hiding from the sunlight, 
while  the shou ts of Damiana Cisneros echoed through  the fields: “T hey’re killing Don Pedro!”  
    Abundio Martinez heard the  woman shouting.  He didn’t know what to do  in order  to stop her.  
He thought that the shout s of that old  woman could  probably  be heard far away.  Maybe his  wife 
would even be able to hear those ear -splitting shouts , although he wasn’t able to  understand what 
they were saying.  He thought about his wife , stretched out on the cot all by herself, t here in the 
patio of his house where he put her so that her body wouldn’t cool so quickly .  His dear Cuca , 
who h ad been sleeping with him  yesterday , still quite alive , and was fris king about like a colt, 
biting him and rubbing his nose with her nose.  The woman who had given him that child who 
had died soon  after he was bo rn, according to what they said  because she was weakened  by all 
the illnesses she had suffered. E ven though he sold all of his burros in order t o bring a doctor 
there to treat her, it had all been for nothing…  His Cuca , who was now there under  the night 
dew with her eyes closed, without  being  able to see the arrival of dawn, or the sunlight.  
    “Help me!” he said.  “Give me something.”  
    But he couldn’t even hear himself.  The shouts of that woman were so loud that they blocked 
out everything.  
    On the road from Comala some little black dots were moving.  In a moment those dots were 
converted into men who soon were there in front of him.  Damiana Cisneros stopped shouting.  
Now she had fallen, with her mouth open, as if she was yawning.  
    The men who had come  picked her up from the ground , and carried her into the house.     
    “Are you all right, sir?” they asked.  
    The face of Pedro Paramo appeared, but all he did was move his head.  
    They disarmed Abundio , who still had a knife covered with blood in his hand:  
    “Come with us,” they told him.  “A fine mess y ou have gotte n yourself into .” 
    And he went with them.  
    Before they got to the town he asked them permission.  He moved to the side a nd he vomited 
something yellow that looked like bile.  One stream after another, as if he had swallowed te n 
liters of water.  Then his head started burning, and he felt his t ongue stammering:  
    “I am drunk,” he said.  
    He went back to where they were waiting for him.  He leaned on their shoulders, and they took   
hold of  him, dragging him along so that the tip of his toes made a furrow in the ground.  
 
 
    Back there, seate d in his wicker chair,  Pedro Paramo  watched the group of m en who were 
traveling back to  town.  When he tried to raise  his left hand, it felt as if  it had fallen dead  on top 

of his knees, but he paid no attenti on to it.  He was used to having parts of his b ody die.  He saw 
how the heavens were shaking, making the leaves fall: “Everyone chooses the same path.  
Everyone leaves us.”  After that he went back to  the the place where he had left his thoughts.  
    “Susana,” he said, and t hen he closed his eyes.  “I asked you to come back…”  
    “…There was a full moon in the middle of the sky.  My eyes longed for you when they saw 
you.  The rays of the moon were spreading over your face.  I never tired of looking at you.  
Beautiful, cleansed by the moon,  your puffed l ips moist and sprinkled with stars; your body 
translucent  in the water of the night.  Susana…  Susana San Juan.”  
    He tried  to raise his hand to clear the image, but his legs held on to it as if it we re stone.  He 
tried to lift his other hand  but slowly began to fall  sideways, until he was resting on the ground , 
like a crutch supporting his weak shoulder.  
    “This is my death,” he said.  
    The sunlight was falling over things, bringing  back their form.  In fr ont of him the empty land 
was in ruin s.  The heat warmed  his body.  His eyes scarce ly moved; they were jumping from one 
memory to another, blurring the present.  Then his heart stopped, and it seemed as if time  and the 
breath of life  had also stopped . 
    “Just as long as it’s not a new night ,” he thought.  
    Because he was afraid of nights that were full o f ghosts.  They  frightened him . 
    “I know that soon  Abundio will come with his bloody ha nds to ask me for the help I denied  
him.  And my hands will not b e able to cover my eyes so I don’t see him.  I will have to listen t o 
him until his voice ends  with the day, until his voice dies.”  
    He felt that some hands had grasped his shoulders and  were lifting him  up, helping  him. 
    “It’s me, Don Pedro,” said Damiana.  “Do you want me to bring you your lunch?”  
    Pedro Paramo answered:  
    “I’m going  there.  I’m ready .” 
        He leaned on the arms of Damiana Cisneros and made an effort to walk.  Aft er a few steps 
he collapsed , pleading  inside , but without saying a  single word.  He hit  the gro und and crumbled, 
as if he were  nothing more than a pile of stones.  
 
The End  