Title










Copyright © 2026 by Devan Barlow

Cover copyright © 2026 by Arden Powell 



OceanofPDF.com

Title









HONEY AND HARM


By Devan Barlow


Content Warnings


Please note, this story contains: death of a parent, death of a sibling, sororicide, violence, forced captivity, restriction of bodily autonomy, emotional manipulation



OceanofPDF.com

Prologue









 




Prologue



My sister killed my sister with a spell of honey and iced-over midnight.


Now here we are, on blood-won land.


The story of a beautiful girl, and the curse that she broke. Of true selves discovered, and evil vanquished.


So often, stories forget beautiful girls never exist all by themselves. 


But no shadow lasts forever.



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter One









 




Chapter One




Cora


Brokenstar was the most beautiful cage.


The air coming though my window was pleasantly warm, punctuated only by the vague sound of bees carrying out their work.


I was trapped in this Holding more surely than those bees were trapped to hive-life and honey-making.


Several of Brokenstar’s wights floated into my room. They mostly invisible, yet had a presence like frost on a spring morning, displacing the air they moved through. If I looked at them long enough, I got a vague impression of their shapes, an uncanny fusion of human and honey bee. Arms and legs connected to a round, striped body, held aloft by busy wings. Antennae twitched atop their heads, yet I never truly saw their faces. These shreds of Hester and Arnaud’s magic were bound to the Holders’ commands.


Hester, my older sister, had been brave and glorious enough to break the curse that once afflicted the wights, as it did Brokenstar’s other Holder, Arnaud. Did the wights think of Hester with gratitude now that she ruled alongside Arnaud, or did they know enough about her by now to think of her as I did? 


Once they realized I was already out of bed, the wights pulled away, disappearing through the walls as quickly as they'd appeared. But I took their meaning: Hester liked when I breakfasted with her and Arnaud. 


I knew I should change out of my nightgown and head downstairs, but instead I went onto my balcony. My room was on the fifth floor of the Brokenstar manor. If the view hadn’t been of a place I detested, it would have been enviable.


The air smelled of pansies from the overfull boxes of the flowers on my windowsill and those of all the other rooms on this level. Their bright two-toned petals sparkled with leftover dew as their scent cascaded over me.


I could see some of the greenhouses, their lush fruits and vegetables gleaming through the windows. The colors of the vegetables were so saturated it was like looking at a painting, an idealization of what produce could be. Not far from the greenhouses were fruiting vines, their colors equally intoxicating. All of it Holding produce, grown on Brokenstar’s enchanted soil.


“Julie?” I kept my voice soft. The wights were gone but I always feared speaking her name too loudly.


I rested my hands on the balcony railing, my shoulders curving forward. 


The air around me chilled as Julie’s ghost came into view. Her form was translucent, overlaid against the sight of the growing things which made this land so valuable, but I fixed my eyes on her face. She looked annoyed, which was typical for her. Becoming incorporeal had not helped my younger sister's temperament. 


“Where were you?”


Her eyes rolled. “Having adventures while you were asleep. Scaled a mountain, learned a new dance. Marvelous time.”


I sighed. “You know I didn’t mean—”


“Slaughtered gods,” she huffed, “let me make a joke?”


We didn’t laugh. Neither of us could go beyond Brokenstar’s borders.


“You shouldn't keep her waiting.” Julie looked like she couldn't believe she had to tell me this.


“I know.”


“So what are you doing? Go!” She raised her arms like she would push me if she could exert physical force.


I went back into my bedroom with the flowers’ scent lingering on my skin. Julie was right. Hester knew plenty of ways to hurt me.


My closet contained an absurdly lush wardrobe. Trailing gowns in a dozen colors, leggings and shirts in rich fabrics that were always soft on my skin. Shoes and scarves and shawls. They had all been here the first time I woke in this room.


I would have preferred not to wear Hester’s gifts, but I lacked other options and walking around naked didn't seem like it would help my situation. I chose a pair of slate gray leggings and a long, comfortable top in red, with a wrap of the same color.


The house was quiet in its usual peculiar way, as if the building itself feared to disturb Arnaud and Hester. Yet as the wights floated through the house and grounds, tending to their many tasks, they created a soft buzz at the edge of my hearing. They seemed to stay out of my room unless they'd been ordered there, but the rest of Brokenstar was fair game.


I took the house's largest staircase, winding through every level until I reached the ground floor. 


The dining room held a long table of dark wood. It was far too big for the three of us, especially considering the many other options within the house. The room had tall, narrow windows on three sides that reached from floor to ceiling and let in so much light the effect was almost like going outside. The fourth wall was taken up by a tapestry depicting a battleground of the first Holding War. It wasn’t a comforting image, but it left an impression, which Hester loved doing. She’d had the tapestry moved in here from an unused bedroom on the fourth floor. Hester thought of objects much as she did people. Why have something around that didn’t serve your purposes?


Hester and Arnaud sat at the far end of the room, Arnaud returned to his proper place through my sister's valor, though some still called him the Brokenstar Beast.


“Good morning, Cora,” Hester greeted me. She wore what I knew was one of her plainest dresses, though it was finer than anything we’d ever imagined having growing up. A splendor of primrose and pewter elegantly draped around her.


“Morning,” Arnaud echoed Hester with a soft smile from where he sat on her right. 


He and I didn't really know how to interact with each other, even after several months. This was a kind of blessing because, while our individual reasons for this discomfort were worlds apart, it meant I wasn't the only one making our interactions awkward. 


There was a place set for me on Hester's left. We'd make a picture she favored, the powerful Holder flanked by the two people she was closest to.


I sat, cold despite the warm sun pouring through the windows.


Hester laid a hand on my arm and I pulled away, looking down at my lap. She knew I didn't like being touched. She made a small, displeased noise, so quiet only I heard it. I tensed, waiting for her reaction, but instead she just chided me. “Eat something, Cora.”


The day was young, but already both my sisters had scolded me. 


Father warned me of this once, when I was ten years old and already well used to serving as the buffer between Hester and Julie. I was between them in temperament as I was in age, and realized early that I was best placed to keep the combination of my sisters from exploding. 


Father told me if walls are no more than walls, the things they’re holding back destroy them. I knew he meant well, but I saw no way out of things as they were. There was always another clash to mitigate. 


And in the end, what did it matter? Hester got her Holding, and she got me, the devoted sister, at her side. What did it matter that Julie had to die, and I was bound by the magic Hester stole from me?


Hester and Arnaud often had guests at Brokenstar, and I heard what they all said.


How kind Hester of Brokenstar is, caring for what's left of her family despite the responsibilities of her new position. How kind, and how beautiful. 


Always they mentioned her beauty, as if there were a penalty for forgetting it. 


Wherever Father was, I wished he would never know how right he was about us.


On the table in front of Hester was a pile of letters, an assortment of thick paper in pastel colors decorated with heavy wax seals. Sorceresses could send messages far faster if they needed to, but correspondence by letters was often observed as a form of etiquette. Hester moved the papers aside and reached for a plate of food set farther away. It was clear she and Arnaud had been waiting for me to have breakfast so they could then continue with their day's many obligations. But all the while, she smiled at me, like nothing mattered more to her than my happiness.


There were dishes in front of me. A plate was heaped with beautifully cut pieces of fruit. Next to it was a bowl filled with warm porridge. The grains were plump with milk and drizzled with Brokenstar honey.


My stomach growled, betraying me. I was hungry. No matter that this food would only bind me closer to this land. 


Honey was Brokenstar’s product of pride. Every drop was full of Brokenstar's magic, which sang to the power within me that I couldn’t use.


I saved the porridge for last, then ate around the tracery of honey until I couldn't avoid it any more. The honey was the worst part, and it was my favorite thing. No matter its history, it tasted so damn good. 


With every mouthful Brokenstar's power reached toward mine, running through my blood and dancing through my entire body. My magic loved it. How could it not? This was like being a fire, given more and more to devour. When the Brokenstar fire met my own, both grew stronger. 


But no matter how good it felt, it would never be for me. I was like an animal being fattened. The stronger my magic, the more of it there was for Hester to draw from. My plates were always full, and second helpings were always provided.


I ate my breakfast, every bite, and pretended not to notice Hester's satisfaction. 


#




Hester


IF MOTHER HAD LIVED to see me at Brokenstar, she would have finally been proud of me.


Mother’s health had been failing since my sisters and I were little. We knew what it meant when her voice thinned. The pain, come for another battle with her body. 


It was hard for Father to get a doctor to the house, as most of the town didn't care for us. They'd heard the rumors, about a fallen sorceress and her brood, about our family's disgrace and the power, both magical and political, that had been taken from us. 


“I cannot feed my girls as they should be fed!” 


She said it often enough it wasn't a surprise to hear, or more often to overhear. It became a morbid game among my sisters and I, guessing how Father would respond this time. Would he apologize, would he commiserate with her, or would this be one of the rare days he argued, begging her to move beyond past wrongs? He always told her how much he loved her. Sometimes she said she loved him too. But no response ever stopped the conversation from happening again. 


We didn't entirely know what this lost power meant. We knew our family had little money. Father worked for one of the town’s merchants, taking stock of the shipments that came in at the nearby port, but it didn’t pay well, and he often needed to stay home to help care for Mother. I had to grow up a bit to realize that while my sisters and I never went hungry, this was often because our parents went without enough.


The three of us had all gone for lessons in the village school, becoming used to the alternating bouts of isolation and scorn the other pupils visited on us. By the time I was seventeen and Cora fifteen, both of our parents were too distracted to chide us about attending any more. Cora and I both found work in the village, her cleaning houses and myself carrying deliveries for some of the shops. Flirting my way to free groceries as often as I could, to help keep everyone fed. Julie stayed in school until the three of us began working on our plan.


But it wasn't until Mother brought home Brokenstar honey that I really understood what had been lost.


A year or so after I left school, Mother left the house. This was rare, and rarer still as she didn’t tell Father or any of us beforehand. Once we realized, the strangeness of it froze us all within the house, like she had summoned ice to fix us in place.


Mother returned with basket clutched hard in her hands, veins standing out in a story of exhaustion. In it, swaddled tightly in cloth, were three small jars. She came inside without a word for us or Father and set the basket on the kitchen table, which rocked on its uneven legs. Cloth unwound, we saw the jars were glass, their bases five-sided, and with wavy designs at each intersection. On the front was the Brokenstar crest. They were not otherwise labeled, and Mother didn’t name them. All three jars were full of honey.


“Girls.” She used the voice we knew not to question. “Sit.”


I sat closest to Mother, as I always did, with Cora on the opposite side but a little farther away than I was, and Julie on my other side. Father stood nearby, his face apprehensive. But despite all three of us staring at him in confusion, he didn't give us any clue what was happening. He only shrugged and tilted his head toward Mother. I thought he was afraid, but I didn't understand why until later. 


Mother poured the first honey onto three spoons and passed them to us. 


It was pale yellow-gold, with a kind of gleam that only showed up when I tilted my head one particular way. It tasted of citrus, bright and sharp, with a warm, startling buzz on its way down my throat. 


“Girls,” she said quietly, recognizing what I'd felt, “this is Holding honey.” She swallowed, then averted her eyes from the jars for a moment. “I'm so sorry you had to wait this long to taste magic.” 


I gasped before I could stop myself. Cora looked at me as if to make sure I was all right, though she couldn’t hide her own surprise. Julie just stared at the jars, transfixed.


The air felt different, like rapid clouds had descended.


The second honey was murky, with a rusty red cast, and the viscous liquid was reluctant to leave the spoon. It was heavier in my mouth, with a darker level of flavor seeping out to overwhelm me, floral yet sweet and nothing like it had smelled, seeming to take its time to release all the layers it had to share with me. 


The third was a rich brown, nearly black. This one fooled me with its sweetness at first, only to plunge into deeper flavor, like wood and musk condensed into that thick cream, with another note that seemed to go straight into my nose.


It was the first time we’d tasted anything from a Holding.


I couldn’t stop staring at the jars, greedy for more. If only they were larger! A spoonful for each of us did them in. Our parents didn't take any, though I saw Mother desperately wanted some. I wanted them to be full again, so I could fill up on that honey. I'd eaten honey before, but not from a Holding. And if so little tasted so good...


I folded my hands together to keep from reaching for it, but then the second jar jerked and fell, rolling toward me on the uneven table. I stopped it in its path before it fell, wrapping my fingers around its smooth sides. 


My ears roared as I stared at it. Had I done that? I didn't voice the question, but Mother smiled at me, though her eyes were sharp. 


Another jar tipped, this one rolling towards Cora. It reached the edge of the table but then righted itself, as if performing for her. She caught my eyes with a gasp, and we smiled at each other in triumph. 


Yet then I noticed Mother smiling at Cora in a way she hadn’t smiled at me. 


Julie made another low sound and I looked to see her face tense, her eyes distant, and the final jar shuddered, then rose and flew toward her. She cried out as it hit her collarbone and fell into her lap. 


The air thickened again. Suddenly Mother forgot Cora and I, instead beaming at Julie. Julie looked startled.


Why wouldn't Mother look at me that way?


“Brokenstar,” Mother’s voice was low and rich, “is one of only a few Holdings that produce honey. The plants get their magic from the soil, and from them it passes to the bees as they pollinate.”


I know why she did it. Mother wanted to show us what we didn't have. She had so little of her own magic left, and no Holding products to nourish what remained. At this point, we didn't know all the details of what had happened to her family, but we knew our grandmother had made enemies and suffered for it.


I never saw Mother do magic. I don't think she could anymore, but I think the potential was just beyond her reach, stolen through no fault of her own. All the more fuel for her rage. 


But she could dip a spoon into Brokenstar honey and feed it to her daughters. She could give us a taste of what she longed for, and what she believed we deserved. 


I began to realize, that day, that I had less magic than either of my sisters. Julie, with her superior power, was the only one Mother had eyes for after that. 


That taste of Holding power was fleeting. But I decided, after my first taste of Brokenstar honey, that I would have that power back.



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Two









 




Chapter Two




Cora


Mother had fed my sisters and I Brokenstar honey once. It was her way of teaching us about what she thought we were owed. That was the first time I ever felt my magic. It was strange, and wonderful, and made me consider what our family had lost. But now everything I ate imprisoned me more thoroughly.


Yet for all that, the food was so good. I'd eaten my meal without pause and suddenly realized how thirsty I was. A glass was in front of me, filled with water from Brokenstar’s small, clear spring. I drank it anyway, because I was thirsty and because it grew harder every day to convince myself resisting would do me any good. 


As I drank, Hester leaned toward Arnaud. “Cora will join us in our appointment today. Lady Windshriek and her siblings should be arriving soon.”


I fumbled my glass and it hit the top of the table with a ringing sound. “I'm doing what, now?” Since she'd broken Arnaud’s curse and bound herself to the Holding, Hester had hosted a number of Rulers from other Holdings in the hopes of improving Brokenstar's ties with them, but she rarely required me to do anything other than be seen. Other than my magic, I was just fodder for the perception of herself she nurtured. 


Arnaud leaned back in his chair, looking fatigued. I felt bad for him. He wasn't Hester's only victim, but he didn't even realize he was one. At least I knew who to blame. 


I’d tried telling him the truth once, shortly after Hester brought me to Brokenstar. I don't know what good I thought it'd do, after everything she'd already accomplished, but I tried. Only to find Hester's binding of me made it impossible to speak of anything relating to Arnaud's curse, or how she'd broken it. 


“Why do you need me there?” I asked.


“This is a step toward setting things right.” Hester’s smile was radiant, but I recognized the steel in her voice. The arrival of several wights distracted her and she rose, drifting toward them gracefully. Bee-human forms flowed around her, their storm-center, as she commanded them in a low voice.


I looked at Arnaud. “You two have had other Rulers visit since I’ve been here, but you never get me involved. What’s different about Windshriek?”


Arnaud hesitated, toying with the edge of the tablecloth. “Hester’s done all the negotiating with Windshriek.”


I frowned. “So you don’t know.” 


He glanced to where she was still with the wights. “Windshriek isn’t fond of me.” Before I could question that, he said, “The Holder of Windshriek believed I should have been removed from Brokenstar when I was cursed. They were a bit more, ah, vocal about it than some.”


The curse that made Arnaud the Brokenstar Beast, a name he despised, had caused his very self to nullify magic. 


Nothing any sorceress could craft was enough to entirely undo the magic in an Estate's soil, but the curse had kept not only Arnaud himself from working magic, but also anyone who came within Brokenstar's borders. It even nullified the spells some sorceresses perpetually maintain, for health or vanity or protection. 


So while many other Holding Rulers had believed Arnaud should not be allowed to continue as Holder of Brokenstar, the very act of removing him from Brokenstar was impossible. He didn't want to leave, and they couldn't use magic to force him out. Eventually some holder would have found a way. But before they could, Hester “broke” the curse. Stunning, clever Hester. And with Arnaud's magic returned, any arguments for ousting him from Brokenstar quickly lost credence.


What none but my sisters and I knew, however, was that Hester was the one who set Arnaud’s curse in the first place. Hester who now ruled Brokenstar alongside Arnaud, who'd manipulated everything to get what she thought she deserved. 


“Cora.” Hester returned to the table as the wights streamed away toward whatever she needed of them. “We’re meeting with Windshriek this afternoon. I’ll have the wights fetch you.” She took a final sip from the mug of tea in front of her. “This is a good opportunity to strengthen our alliance with them.”


“It doesn’t sound like there is an alliance yet,” I said. “Why do you need me there?”


“Cora.” She moved behind me and rested her hands on my shoulders. Her touch was light but still I tensed, wishing I was brave enough to push her away. “Did you get enough sleep last night?”


I twisted in my chair to stare at her. Her eyes dared me to make a scene, right in front of Arnaud. Dared me to provoke her to pull even more power from me and ensnare myself more tightly in her plans. 


I swallowed, still tasting the honey from the porridge and hating its complex sweetness. “All right.” I stood, mostly to get her hands off me.


Arnaud watched me with concern, though not pity. He didn't seem to want to intrude between sisters, though the slaughtered only knew what else Hester had told him about me when I wasn't there to hear. 


“Make sure you wear something nice!” Hester added, as if she allowed me to own anything that wasn't up to her standards. 


I watched her for another moment. Watched her hoping I'd make a mistake she could use against me. Finally, I left, while I still could.


#




JULIE MATERIALIZED next to me as soon as I reached the hall outside the breakfast room.


“How much of that did you hear?”


“Enough” she replied, her voice like a soft breeze directed only into my ears as she floated beside me. “I don't like the sound of this meeting.” 


“Neither do I.”


We both knew it was never good when Hester had a part for us to play in her plans.


“You shouldn't blame yourself for eating,” Julie said as we neared the staircase.


“What?” I paused. I'd meant to go back to my room, but I didn't want to go back to my room. If only for the sheer fact of not doing what Hester wanted.


Instead I turned, heading for the large glass door that led out onto the Estate's grounds. 


Sunlight cascaded down as I left the house, warming every speck of me. The smells of growing things filled my nose. We weren't that far from the Unblooded Sea, but there was no trace of the brisk, briny smell my memories linked with our childhood.


“You have to eat,” Julie said as the door closed silently behind us. “But I know you're blaming yourself for it.” She sighed, the movement rippling through her like curtains on a windy day. “What do you want me to say? ‘Stop eating and die and yes, definitely, that will show Hester’?” She narrowed her eyes. “You promised me you’ll try to keep yourself healthy.”


I sighed. “I’ll try. Believe me or don’t.”


Hester had promised me and Julie that she would undo what she'd done to both of us. But I was still her tool, and Julie was still dead, and none of that was ever going to change. After Julie died, Hester went to Brokenstar with the magic she had stolen from us. She left me behind. I didn't have my magic but I still had control over myself. I could say whatever I wanted, but I was too scared to talk much. Not that there had been anyone to listen, much less believe me.


Before Hester took our magic, I'd rarely thought it my place to talk, except to act as peacekeeper for my sisters. And no matter Father's warnings, I hadn't thought or cared much to carve out another kind of place for myself. I knew we couldn't stay in that house forever, especially after Mother died. It was already suffocating us. But I didn't know how to think about that. So I didn't; I focused on my sisters. 


And then Julie was dead. Gone forever, as far as anyone else knew. We didn't know if she would stay a ghost, or fade away. I didn't die, that night when Hester worked her spell, but some part of me did. I was grieving—for Julie, and because I didn't think we'd ever come back from what Hester did. But before I could figure out how to make sense of the world again, Hester summoned us to Brokenstar. 


No one would believe she killed Julie anyway. Hester was the curse breaker, Brokenstar's savior. Mother was dead, Father was both a mockery and missing, and no one would listen to anything unspooling from my supposed hysteria and all too real grief.


“If you die,” Julie’s voice dragged me out of my memories, “we really won’t have any chance left.”


I couldn't look at her. “I know.”


There was a large tree nearby, covered in pale violet blossoms, and I slumped against it, resting in its shade. Julie hovered close, saying nothing more.


Being outside always reminded me how massive Brokenstar was. So much land, and all of it bent to Hester's purpose. When she agreed to rule Brokenstar alongside Arnaud, she completed the same ritual he had, binding herself to the land. This meant the soil could feed on her magic, helping both her and the land to thrive. Arnaud could act against her, but I didn't think he ever would. I knew Hester didn't love him. But I couldn't tell if he loved her, or if her breaking his curse produced an effect similar enough to make no difference. 


The tree I sheltered under was near Brokenstar's small grove of mirabelle trees, heavy with small, waxy-looking fruits in red and yellow, like the trees had captured a sunset to hold among their branches.


If I focused, I could see wisps of Holding wights circling the trees, watering and clipping. They moved purposefully, reflecting the moments when Hester and Arnaud had performed those same movements.


The aroma of fruit lured me, promising to be sweet and delicious. There'd be no punishment for taking some, but this at least I could refuse. I tried to take comfort from that, but found little. 


Julie and I didn't talk as the sun rose above Brokenstar. I couldn't see the apiary from where we were, but I heard the bees, melodious and content from the Holding products they fed on every day. 


I fell asleep with my head resting against the bark, and slept until I sensed wights nearby. They hadn't touched me. They never touched me, though I wasn't sure if they could.


I glanced sideways, but of course Julie was gone. 


Hester wanted me.


Power—Hester’s power, stolen as it was—pulsed from the direction of the wights, surrounding me, tilting me back toward the house. I stood, rewound my wrap around my upper body, and headed back to the house. 


Maybe one day I'd resist Hester's commands. 


Maybe one day.


Once the wight-pressure abandoned me back in my room, Julie made herself visible again, her face edged with sympathy. 


I shrugged, feeling empty in a way no amount of honey could fill. “Hester promised she’d fix this.”


She’d promised to make things better. To give me my magic back, and return Julie to her body.


Julie said, after a pause, “Maybe she will.”


But we both knew she wouldn’t.


#




Cora


BEFORE ONE OF US WAS dead and one of us was powerful and one of us was me, my sisters and I lived on the coast of the Unblooded Sea. Brokenstar was the nearest Holding. This meant its Holder was technically also ours, though like most Rulers he had little to do with life outside the Holdings. 


The nearby town smelled perpetually of brine from the oceans and the markets, where fish of every sort were laid out to glare at the customers. The Unblooded Sea’s fish didn’t have magic in their flesh, but they were hearty and plentiful as the fisher folk were careful in their usage of the sea.


“What about these?” Julie asked me one day in the market, gesturing to the gold-scaled fish laid out on a long rectangular table. The fishmonger eyed us. I bent to look at the fish, ignoring the vendor's eyes in favor of those which bulged, lifeless, from the sea creatures. The fish’s scent overcame the brine in my nose, but it didn’t smell rotten. 


“Two of these,” I decided, and nodded to Julie, as she had the coins in her purse. 


“Only two?” Julie spoke quietly, but the vendor's eyes rolled in annoyance, hearing her despite the market's clamor. The fish were small, and two of them would not be enough for the three of us and our parents, but Julie knew we had few coins left by that point. I nodded at her, again, and she paid for the fish and accepted the small, wrapped package. The fishmonger’s face turned stony when she realized we would buy nothing else, and as we moved away from her stall I lowered my face so she wouldn't see me blush. Julie's face was tight, thin lines marring skin that was always clearer than mine. She returned the purse to the inside of her coat with a movement so sharp it risked tearing through the fabric. Both our coats were much-patched. 


Julie turned back toward the fishmonger, opening her mouth, but I put my hand in the bend of her elbow to lead her away. We'd gone down that path before and it was never helpful. She grumbled but didn’t pull away from me. 


As always, she was unconvinced she couldn't fix the world by arguing with it. I tried to balance her with my own quiet. 


We didn't have much of our own, but I didn’t think we deserved the fishmonger’s scorn.


I’m not sure, though. Holders had so very much to answer for, and everyone knew of our family’s connection to them.


But no matter what Mother insisted, we'd never stand against the town if it turned on us in force. And we had nowhere to retreat to if that happened, so I strove to keep as much peace as I could. 


“Maybe Mother will like these,” Julie muttered. 


“I'm sure they'll be fine,” I told her, though I wasn't. She made a noise that told me I hadn't fooled her, but we'd had this conversation before. Mother's tastes were easy to meet, as long as you had ready access to Holding products. 


Thankfully the fish was the last thing we needed, and we left the market. I breathed easier once we broke from the haphazard collection of stalls and small storefronts. The air thinned of people and noise. The sound of the waves grew prominent and I closed my eyes for a moment, shifting the packages to a more comfortable arrangement in my arms. 


“Cora!” 


I opened my eyes at the sound of Hester's voice. She came toward us, up the path leading to several other shops. The three of us looked enough alike that there was no doubt we were sisters. Yet somehow the same features and coloring that were pleasant on Julie and I were stunning on Hester. 


Hester's large, patched bag bulged with weird angles. 


“Successful bartering?” I asked.


She grinned, and pulled out a small twist of bread, ripping it into thirds and handing them to Julie and I. It was still warm, scented with rosemary and studded with almonds. I took a bite and the nuttiness of the almonds rose up against the roof of my mouth, so intense I nearly choked.


“Is this from Tenian's?” I forced myself to get the words out before taking another bite. The magic the almonds gained from their soil tantalized my own power, inviting me to fall deeper into it. It was a lie, and I resisted, though my back teeth ground together with the effort. Holding soil lied as well as it tempted. A few almonds would never fuel a spell of any consequence. 


That day, I couldn't fathom magic like I would soon encounter. 


Hester grinned again as Julie's eyes widened, her own piece of bread nearly gone already. 


Tenian's was the only bakery in town that bought from the Holding merchants, and since Brokenstar didn't produce any nuts these must have come from farther away, which would only make them pricier. Sudden worry spiked through my enjoyment of the flavors. “How much did you pay for this?” Hester and I both brought in a little bit of money, but it was hardly enough to feed us all.


“She didn't pay for it,” Julie commented. 


Hester narrowed her eyes but didn't snipe back. Instead she gave me a smile, frostier than before. “Some of us just know how to talk to people.” She opened her bag wider, giving us a glance of two more loaves inside, one flecked with amber bits of ginger and cinnamon, the other scented with herbs, both clearly infused with Holding products if not also made with Holding grain. Hester closed the bag smugly, waiting for us to marvel at her. 


“Is there anyone you can’t charm?” Julie asked.


Hester shrugged. “Haven’t found them yet.” Her eyes fell on the small parcel of fish Julie carried. “That won’t be enough.”


Julie’s mouth pursed with irritation but I stepped forward, placing myself between my sisters. “Let's go home.” 


Hester pouted.


“I'm sure Mother will appreciate the fish,” I hastened to add, urging them forward. 


Hester took her usual place at the front of our trio, her smugness restored. She'd left her hair unbound and it tossed around her shoulders as she walked, somehow still pretty despite being disheveled. I pushed a stray strand of my braid out of my eyes, wishing for an extra pin. When I left my hair down like that it just looked messy. 


“You need to be careful,” I told Hester. “We don’t need any extra attention.”


This wasn’t the first time she’d charmed treats out of the town’s shopkeepers. Sometimes I envied her ability to talk to people, until I remembered such a talent would meant people paying attention to me. Then I only envied her a little. 


She rolled her eyes. “There's no harm in charming people.”


“Not until they remember who we are,” I said. 


Hester bristled. “They don’t respect our family the way they should.”


I glanced at Julie and settled for saying, “We should hurry.” We all knew there was harm in returning home late. And, like so many things, the definition of late could change at Mother's whim. 


The house we lived in was only a short way from the rest of the town, but after a few moments of walking the path was empty of anyone but us and the occasional seabird. The house was close enough to the sea that if you stood on the porch on the right sort of day you'd get sea spray on your face. The roof sloped in a way that didn't inspire confidence, and there was almost enough space for the three of us and our parents.


Yet from this house there was a view of the Brokenstar Estate’s manor, big and bright and teeming with power. That grand building loomed in sight on clear days, then was shrouded by mist and clouds as if the weather schemed to keep it out of our sight. 


Brokenstar was the only Holding within a day's travel, and it was said if you approached without the Ruler's willingness, the way would twist and twine around you until you were too confused to find anything farther than your own feet.


My sisters and I were silent as we walked back home, each caught up in our own versions of the morning.


Mother was at the second story window when we returned, looking out at us. She couldn't have seen well enough to get the specifics of what we carried, but she was already slumped in disappointment. 


Hester stilled at the sight of her and Julie and I swerved to avoid colliding. 


“This isn’t right,” Hester muttered. She tilted her head toward the bags we carried, though her eyes stayed on Mother. “We shouldn’t have to be doing this.” 


“You sound like her.” I refused to look back at Mother. Hester was her pet, and Julie was her pride, and I was just there. Some battles weren’t for winning.


“She’s never been wrong,” Hester continued. “We should be there.” She whirled to face the direction Brokenstar lay, as clouds drifted in from the sea to hide it from us.


“She’s right,” Julie interjected, tightening her arms around her parcels as if agreeing with Hester caused her pain. 


“I never said she was wrong.” It was automatic, saying what I needed to keep a fight from starting. I’m not sure how much I believed it.


Hester raised her eyebrows, and I hated how she made even that look elegant. 


Brokenstar was an old wrong, and one which had absorbed Mother all our lives. But I didn't know what to say, so I kept walking, and we returned to the sea-battered house.



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Three









 




Chapter Three




Cora


I heard voices in the sitting room as the wights pressed me toward the meeting. As I entered, a sharp, unfamiliar voice was saying, “You understand why I hesitate to link the fortunes of my Holding to your own.”


I hesitated, apparently unnoticed by any of the five people already seated. Arnaud was looking at the speaker as if afraid she was going to cut his head off. 


The woman, whose posture was so upright I expected her to snap in half, must be the Holder of Windshriek. She continued, “You’ve proven susceptible before. When Hester’s curse made Arnaud the Brokenstar Beast." 


“Look outside.” Arnaud’s voice was raw. “This land flourishes. And I will assure you, the negative financial impact of the curse has been overcome.”


“The curse placed on Brokenstar was proven to be an act of rot magic,” Hester added. “Were the bounds of your Holding previously protected against such an attack? An attack by a sorceress whose identity the Holdings are still unable to discover?”


I looked down, afraid of my anger drawing attention. Everyone always believed Hester’s lies. 


“If you had been more artful in your breaking of the curse,” Lady Windshriek said, “we might have been able to determine who cast it, and thus track them. Pity you destroyed the thing so ungracefully.”


Hester had been careful to break it so thoroughly that it would be difficult to trace it back to our magics. And even if someone could, Hester’s magic was the least of it. Part of her story was that I didn’t have magic, and as far as I knew, you couldn’t trace magic back to a ghost.


“Are you yourself skilled in undoing such unusual rot magic while maintaining the spell’s structure?” Hester asked. “I cannot imagine you refusing to assist with such knowledge once you learned of the curse upon Brokenstar.”


“He was nullifying magic!” interrupted the woman sitting on Lady Windshriek's left. Siblings, I remembered Hester mentioning. The Holder’s sister didn’t share her posture, but both had the same gleaming black hair, elegant round faces, and exasperated expressions. “For all we know he would have killed off this entire Holding if you hadn't shown up and fixed it for him.” She crossed her arms, looking disdainful. “Now you want my sister to trust you, when you can’t even take care of your own land?”


Arnaud simmered, his distress clearly fighting his urge to decry her. Untactful as this woman was, she was also right.


“Tell me, Keldin,” Hester asked thoughtfully, “when the previous Holder of Brokenstar was challenged, am I right in thinking you were among those who stepped forward to vie for rulership of this Holding?”


“Yes,” Lady Windshriek's sister clipped the word like it offended her.


“How interesting.”


“Not as interesting”—Lady Windshriek gave Keldin a stern look before turning back to Hester—“as why you think this proposal of yours could ever be taken seriously.” The question of rot magic still hung in the air, but now she was more confident. 


Hester smiled before answering. “Because I have records of all the Brokenstar honey you purchased when the curse made our prices plummet. And because now, instead of one sorcerer who kept his Holding alive despite a rot magic curse, Brokenstar is now also ruled by the one who managed to break that curse. Remind me, when has that been accomplished before?” Hester suddenly turned her head. “Ah, Cora! Thank you for joining us.” 


Keldin let out an annoyed breath, but then Lady Windshriek made the slightest movement of her hand and her sister quieted. 


Hester rose and gestured for me to sit in the empty chair next to her and Arnaud. She was wearing the same dress she’d worn at breakfast, but had added a shawl embroidered with Brokenstar’s crest and earrings with stones the same pale primrose of her dress. Seeing her neatly styled hair, I resisted the urge to fuss with my own. I’d pulled it back with a small silver comb Hester had given me, but my hair was never inclined to stay where I put it.


Arnaud didn't acknowledge me. He looked uncomfortable, his hands resting on the arms of his chair as though they were the only things keeping him from sinking through the floor. Considering the looks directed at him from the chairs opposite, I didn't blame him. 


“This is my sister, Cora,” Hester said. “Cora, this is Holder Emelia of Windshriek.” 


I tried smiling at the strangers but was too anxious to do a very good job. What did Hester want from me here? “Hello,” I ventured. 


“It is a pleasure to meet you, Cora.” Emelia’s manner gave no hint of the argument I’d interrupted. She gestured to either side of herself. “My sister Keldin, and my brother Damien.” Emelia’s hair was cropped short, and she was more sunburnt than either of her siblings. A gleaming enamel brooch on the neckline of her dress depicted Windshriek's crest, which was echoed in the ring on her right hand. She was the oldest of the three, and I guessed maybe ten years older than Hester. 


Keldin left off glaring at Arnaud to scrutinize me. “Are you well enough to be here, Cora? I’ve heard tell of your...unsteady condition.” 


“Oh, it’s kind of you to be concerned,” I said, funneling a little of my anger toward the superiority in her face, “but from what my sister says, I think you have enough to worry about without me.”


If Hester wanted me to play along with whatever she was up to, she’d have to deign to let me in on the plot.


Her mouth thinned and she turned back to Arnaud, whose fingers tightened on the arms of his chair. Hester made a small noise, looking at Emelia as if commiserating about younger sisters, though Emelia looked uninterested.


Her brother Damien murmured a greeting and gave me a small nod, causing his green earrings to glint. I didn’t understand how he was looking at me. He wasn't leering, the way some of the men in the town had, thinking my reduced status meant I didn't deserve respect. He didn't seem to hold any malice toward me. It was more like he and I were playing some kind of game, and he was trying to figure which piece I would move next. He was the heaviest of the three siblings, and the only one not radiating obvious distaste. I glanced at Hester, hoping she would inform me what this man knew that I clearly did not. 


But she ignored me, in favor of the two small, low tables sitting between us and the Windshriek contingent. The traditional exchange of foods a meeting of Rulers called for.


“Please, do have some more tea while it's hot.” Hester's lips pursed. “It would be a shame to miss out on something so luxurious.” On the table closer to Emelia were foods from Brokenstar—a selection of fruit, a jar of lavender honey with a small silver ladle, and a pot of the best tea that only came out for visitors. The tea was from the Vinebright Holding, as Brokenstar didn’t produce any. Brokenstar produced enough herbs for a variety of tisanes, and produce like the mirabelles for fruit wines, but those wouldn’t make the same statement as expensive Vinebright tea. 


The table closer to us was topped with a basket with a pale green ribbon wound around its handle. Inside was a jar of preserves, apricot judging from the color; another jar with vegetables pickled in vinegar; and big bunches of greens, which smelled sharp and delicious. A faint, familiar smell told me the wrapped parcel in the basket was fish, but it was not unpleasant, especially combined with the scent of the greens. I didn't know where Windshriek was, any more than vaguely north. North enough a lot of what they harvested from their land ended up preserved or pickled, like what they'd brought today. Other things, like the greens, would only be available this time of year through the use of winter casks. None of these were casual gifts. However dubiously the people sitting across from us seemed to regard this meeting, they'd put care into the food they brought. 


Hester opened the jar of pickles, speared one and chewed contentedly as the rest of us watched. “That's delicious.” She trailed her fingertips along the fluted edges of the nearest bunch of greens. “These will make a beautiful addition to our table tonight. I do hope you'll stay, and allow us to shelter you this evening? Your journey here must have been tiring. Such an expenditure of magic to keep such products fresh while traveling!”


Emelia sneered briefly at the insult before she composed herself again. Winter casks were very profitable for those Holdings that produced them, marked up for Holding merchants who couldn't legally get them anywhere but from Holding Rulers, but they were simple to work. Only a very weak sorceress would be fatigued from transporting a basket of food under cold spells. 


On the wall behind Emelia was another of the tapestries depicting the first Holding War, and I hoped this meeting would not begin to resemble it. 


“Arnaud”—Hester held the jar of pickles toward him—“you must try these. Such flavor!” 


His face indicated he'd rather be in the midst of one of the battles the tapestries depicted. But he picked up a fork and speared a thin, dark pepper. Without looking at the guests he chewed and swallowed, then nodded his agreement. 


Hester looked at me and I tried to silently communicate my desire to not be there, but she only smiled and turned back to the guests. 


“I believe this alliance between our two Holdings will be mutually beneficial.” Hester's voice was smoother than the lavender honey on the table. 


“Well,” Keldin said, “you would, wouldn't you.”


“Keldin!” Emelia barely raised her voice but she turned toward her sister, their wills clashing in a manner I recognized all too well. 


“Why are you letting her talk to you like this?” 


“Keldin.” 


Damien pretended interest in the tapestry.


Keldin stared at Emelia another moment and then she relaxed, fractionally, against the back of her chair. She lowered her eyes to her teacup and drank as though seeking solace in the steam.


Maybe all sisters were the same. 


Emelia turned her gaze on me. I didn’t look away. The strangest gift Hester ever gave me was the inability to fear so many things. After all she'd done, it was hard for anyone else to frighten me. 


Hester took the jar of pickles from Arnaud and replaced it on the table, satisfaction dancing across her face. 


The Holder of Windshriek held out her hand to me, and I took it because I didn't know what else to do.


Emelia said, “Your marriage to my brother will begin what I hope will be a thriving partnership.”


“My what?” I jerked, inadvertently slapping my hand against Emelia’s. 


“Do excuse my sister!” Hester swept in to separate us, clasping my hands as though sharing in wonderful news. “She's been troubled by poor sleep lately, and is not entirely herself.” She angled herself so only I could see her face, and that was enough to scare me where Emelia hadn't. “It'll be just as we talked about, dear.” She looked back over her shoulder, not letting me go. “My sister is looking forward to aiding in this alliance.”


“Could have fooled me,” muttered Keldin.


Oh no. I realized, too late, what Hester was about to do. 


Her magic seized my throat, and then I spoke. “I apologize,” my voice said, under Hester's control, “I am quite tired today. I hope you can forgive me.”


I hate you, I thought at Hester, unsure whether my thoughts were also hers to examine. I hate you, I hate you!!!


She pulled me forward and turned me around so I faced Emelia. “I'm honored to help both Holdings in such fashion.” My hand extended toward Damien and I watched, horrified, as he stepped closer to take it. His grip was quite soft but I felt like my hand had just been slammed in a door. The silk of his glove was like nettles scraping open my skin. “I hope,” my mouth formed the words, “we may have a happy life together.”


“Indeed,” he echoed, and placed a soft kiss on the top of my hand. Thankfully he then released it, and only Hester's control kept me from snatching it back to myself. “I hope you will find life on the Windshriek Holding to be joyous.”


Life on the Windshriek Holding?


I was leaving Brokenstar?


Hester was letting me leave? Mingled shock and relief raced through me, making me lightheaded. 


Hester dropped her control of me then, but it didn't matter. I couldn't form words anyway. 


Some part of me understood my sister was marrying me off to someone I had just met, but I couldn't think about that properly yet. 


If I was going to live at Windshriek, I wouldn't be at Brokenstar. But then I looked at the three from Windshriek, a study in different flavors of resignation. 


This wasn't Windshriek’s idea. It was Hester's. And if this was something Hester wanted...


As far as anyone but Hester and Julie knew, I didn't have any magic to speak of. Even if she gave me my power back, I would never dream of challenging for my own Holding. If I could leave, I wanted to get far enough away no one had even heard of Brokenstar.


Which meant Hester was only doing this because she had a way to keep me under her control, even if I wasn't on Brokenstar with her. If she could control me, and I was on another Estate's soil...what could she do to Windshriek?


“I think Cora could use some rest.” Arnaud looked at me with concern, brushing his hand against my elbow as if to comfort me. I flinched, though he didn't seem to notice. “Perhaps we can allow her to retire while—”


“We can return to this discussion over dinner.” Hester beamed at the guests. “Until then, the wights will direct you to your rooms.”


Keldin bristled. “Just because—”


“Keldin.”


Keldin glared at Emelia but stayed silent. Hester beckoned her visitors away. Emelia didn’t look at us, while Keldin’s heavy footsteps told us plenty. Damien looked overwhelmed, but nodded at us apologetically before following his sisters. 


Arnaud let out a breath, looking stunned. 


I stared at Hester, desperate to get my thoughts into enough order to let me remonstrate with her.


She'd promised me this would be over. 


She’d promised us this would over. What about Julie?


The room was empty but for the three of us. This sham of a family. 


“You’re sending me to Windshriek?” I finally managed to ask. 


Slaughtered gods, where was Julie? Was she in the room with us? I wanted to call to her, but Arnaud didn’t know about Julie’s ghost. He should know everything Hester had done, but I was too scared of what she’d do to me if I told him. 


“Arnaud.” Hester looked at him imploringly. “Will you give Cora and me a few moments?”


He nodded, relief evident in the set of his shoulders as he left, closing the door softly. 


“You’re sending me to Windshriek?” I repeated.


There was a movement in the corner of my eye, as the air shifted and just for a moment had shape. Then Julie was there, the contours of her face as familiar to me as Hester’s. 


“You think I can't see you?” Hester asked suddenly, looking straight at Julie. Her graciousness from the meeting was gone, replaced by sharp edges and cold words. After a moment Julie became fully visible, and moved close enough to chill my right shoulder. Her coldness was oddly comforting. 


“You promised us.” I couldn't keep my voice steady, even with Julie there. “You promised us this would end!”


Hester didn't answer.


“Tell me you're not sending me to Windshriek so I can be your puppet.”


Julie cursed.


“Hester, tell me—”


“You don't understand!” Her beautiful face cracked into an expression of distress. Her hands twisted at her sides, marring the graceful fall of her skirt. “You have no idea how difficult this is. The Holding—”


“You promised you would give me back my magic.”


Her eyes widened. 


I think that was the first time I'd ever interrupted Hester. “Don't you dare pretend you didn't.”


“You promised you would get my body back.” Julie surged forward until she was nearly on top of Hester, one sister floating incandescently in front of the other. 


“Cora!” Hester look at me through Julie, outraged.


“You keep us trapped here,” Julie began, “you've stuffed Cora with your food until she can barely think of anything else, and you don't give a damn.”


“Cora?!” Hester expected me, even now, to stick myself in the middle. To hold Julie back. But I suddenly realized I didn't care about stopping their argument. What had it ever gotten me?


Julie surged forward until she touched Hester, their forms joining into one strange blend of human and ghost. Hester's face melded with the back of Julie's head, her expression warped by Julie’s ghostly curls intermingling with it. Julie's gray form merged with the rich colors of Hester's gown, the glint of her jewelry dulled like torches on a misty night. 


“Stop this,” Hester whimpered. “Stop this NOW.”


I watched, knowing from experience how much pain Hester was in. But I couldn’t stop Julie, and I didn’t care enough to try. 


“You want me to stop? Then give Cora her gods-damned magic back.” Julie's voice dropped to an unearthly whisper, shot through with air and movement unlike anything living. “Or are you afraid she'll be stronger than you?”


“Julie—”


“I was the strongest of us,” Julie goaded. “Mother knew it. But Cora wasn’t far behind and you couldn’t stand that.”


“Stop.”


“So you can hurt us again?”


Hester threw herself toward the tables. She grabbed the jar of honey and swallowed a spoonful, so fast I thought she'd choke. 


Honey glinted, amber on gold, on top of Hester’s dark red lipstick. Julie shot toward her, blending their forms again. But it was too late. Hester licked her lips, drawing in those last few drops of honey, and held up her hands. 


My lungs emptied. My head went light. There was a whoosh as Hester pulled all the air in the room towards herself. The curtains flapped and some of the furniture toppled, loud and heavy. 


“Hester...” I croaked, falling forward into an overturned chair as pain splashed across my torso. I couldn't breathe, and my vision darkened. 


“Quiet!” Hester’s hands arced in the air before her, shaping a patch of invisibility to her will, before she made a throwing motion in Julie’s direction. “I said STOP IT!” 


Julie flew across the room until she went through the wall. 


The air came back and I sucked it in, rolling off the chair’s hard angles to lay on my back on the ground, breathing greedily. 


Finally I wobbled back to a stand. Hester watched the wall she'd thrown Julie through. But Julie didn’t return. 


“What did you do?”


Hester didn't acknowledge me.


I grabbed her arm, forcing her to look at me. “What did you do?!”


“She's still here,” Hester muttered. 


I let go of her. “No thanks to you.”


“If I could—”


“If you could, you’d do it?” My heart hurt. “Kill Julie for good?”


Hester looked like she was going to respond, but then her lips flattened and she changed the subject. “You have no idea how much power I'm managing.” Hester's voice was lower than usual but it shook, belying her confidence. “Neither of you—”


“Sure,” I interrupted. “Because neither of us have anything to worry about right now.”


Hester looked at me, and I don't think I'd ever seen her look so tired. A pity, that it took me so long to learn so much about my older sister. 


“I should have been the one with the most magic,” she said. 


Julie slunk back through the wall before I could answer. I wondered if she would attack Hester again, but she only floated until she was just behind my shoulder. She was silent, and shaky as if that wind still pummeled her. I looked at her, but she wouldn't meet my eyes. 


“I'm trying to give us the life we deserve,” Hester said quietly. 


Julie asked, softly, “What sort of life is that?”


“So this is it?” Both my sisters were nearly lost to me and I couldn't stand being quiet anymore. “You pack me off to help you control Windshriek and Julie stays here until you figure out how to get rid of her?”


“Cora.” Hester stepped closer. I stepped away from her. That lie wouldn't work anymore.


Her face hardened. She looked at the closed door, then at the window. She twitched her hand and the curtain drew shut. 


She looked at us and said, “There's a fight coming.”


“When trusting Arnaud finds out all the lies you've told him?” I sounded as angry Julie used to all the time. 


“When someone decides they want Brokenstar for themselves.”


“A Holding War?” I asked, startled. “Who did you piss off?”


She shook her head. “Not that kind of fight. No one's going to try harming the land.” She laughed, but none of this was funny. “They're going to say I'm not fit to hold the Holding. That Arnaud isn't fit. It'll be like just now with Emelia, except I won't have any leverage to fall back on.”


“They?”


She sighed. “The other Holding Rulers.” She looked towards the window again, though the curtains were still drawn. “But they won't just say it to our faces. They'll find another way to strike at us. I'm worried.”


This was all nonsense. “Why the hell does this mean marrying me off?”


“We need allies.”


“I could do you a lot more good if I could find my magic. You know anything about that?” I spat out my words. “How long ago did you pitch this to Emelia, anyway?”


She didn't answer my question. “Windshriek is one of the few Holdings I have leverage against.”


I understood. “You threatened to take Windshriek. What did you do, lay another rot magic curse on them?”


Her lips twitched. “Nothing so dramatic.”


I’d thought what I’d seen of her before was Hester cornered. No. That was Hester when her threats were being ignored.


“So, I’m a hostage,” I said. “They fall in line and you send me there as, what, a show of good faith that you won't poison their soil?”


“They'll only think that's what you're there for! But with you on Windshriek, I can—”


“It'll be like having your own magic there.”


“Exactly!”


She said it so proudly, like I couldn’t possibly miss the benefits to all of us. 


I couldn’t keep the disgust from my face. “I can’t believe I used to trust you.”


She sighed. “You're marrying him in seven days. It's not negotiable.”


She made to leave the room, but turned back to me after only three steps. “This is not a simple thing I'm trying to do for us.”


Then she left. 


Julie and I stared at each other. 


Suddenly, pain sliced through me, and an anguished scream filled the world. 



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Four









 




Chapter Four




Julie


Hester never forgave me for not being intimidated by her.


The day we tasted the honey unsettled things. Before then my sisters and I had known, in the abstract, that we might have magic. Or we might not. It wasn't inherited. Mother had it once, Father never did, and my sisters and I never had much evidence either way.


Until the honey woke our magic up. Afterward, even when it slept from lack of Holdings foods, it was impossible to ignore. 


The Holdings were created during the first war, when the sorceresses killed the gods to take magic for themselves. When the gods fell, their blood and flesh infused the soil with magic. Those who slew them took those lands for their own.


A Holding could be taken from its Rulers if a strong enough challenger came forth. Holdings, like magic, were not inherited. You had to prove your strength and worthiness. 


When our mother was a girl, our grandmother Aurelie proved herself strong enough to win Brokenstar. But while Aurelie was skilled in magic, she was also good at making enemies. And one of those enemies, when pushed far enough, told all the right lies to convince other Holdings that Aurelie herself schemed to take their land from them. That enemy, a sorcerer named Eleius, then won the challenge for Brokenstar and held it until his death.


Typically, the relatives of one who lost a challenge were left to their own devices, leveraging power and connections to keep themself afloat amid the Holdings. But thanks to Eleius’s lies, the Holdings turned against Aurelie and her family before our mother was old enough to challenge for her own Holding. Our ancestry could not bequeath us magic, and there was no money left by the time Aurelie's enemies were done, but we did inherit our status as outcasts from the sorcerers' world. 


I hadn’t had any idea what I was doing when the jar of honey flew at me, just the sense of something impossible and maybe wonderful happening. But Mother looked at me differently afterwards. Like she had plans for me.


Before that, Hester had always been Mother’s favorite. Hester looked the most like her, and hung on her every word of Holdings and magic and chances that we'd never be allowed to have.


But a few days after giving us the honey, Mother called me to her. It was the first time she’d ever wanted to see just me, more strangeness atop everything else. 


I went to Mother's room, the study overlooking the sea where she spent most of her days. Cora and I never went in there, though Hester often did, greedy for as many tales as she could hear. 


Books were grouped neatly on a small table in front of a low couch. I hadn't seen any of them before. There was also a small dagger, though this was pushed away from the books as if it wanted nothing to do with them.


Mother sat on the couch, a blanket wrapped around her shoulders. She shivered, though the day wasn't cold. She gestured for me to join her and I did, though I kept a space between us. I’d always wanted her to pay attention to me like this but now I felt awkward, like every movement I made was clumsy under her scrutiny. I wished Cora had come with me. 


Mother studied me, and then gestured to the table. “These books hold everything I know of magic.” She opened one, trailing her fingers down a page thick with illustrations and words. “Everything you need,” she began, “can be possible. See here.” She wrapped her other hand around mine. I started, confused at this unusual show of affection, but then I moved closer and leaned against her, letting myself relish her attention.


“This is a recipe for a healing spell. You could prepare it for someone who’s broken a bone, and it would help them heal much faster, with less pain.”


I stared intently at the page, struggling with the older style of its printing, so different from the books used to teach us in school.


“First are apples.” Mother's thin fingers pointed to the top line. “Can you tell me a Holding that produces apples?”


I thought of her stories, and said “Fellmoon?”


“Good.” Her voice was warm, like spiced cider on a fall morning. “You’d want to slice them very thinly, thin enough to see through if you can.” She moved her fingers. “Can you tell me this part?”


My heart fluttered as I heard the expectation in her words. “Milk.” I read aloud. “It uses milk to make a sauce.” Triumphantly I grabbed onto the right memory. “You could get cow’s milk from Feathertrap, or goat’s milk from any of the Holdings near the Quenched Mountains!”


“Well done, Julie.” She squeezed my hand.


We talked through the rest of the spell's steps, and she explained how it felt to work them, though I knew I didn't understand most of what she said. Every so often she’d glance at me, as if making sure I hadn’t run away. She soon let go of my hand, her warmth disappearing in favor of focus, and I straightened so as not to lean on her anymore. 


“My power is so much less than it used to be.” She sighed heavily, and shifted away from me on the couch. 


“I'm sorry,” I said, because I felt like I should. 


“You should never apologize for your strength,” she said, but her voice belied her words.


“Could...” I thought of how proud she'd looked, and how strange it felt when I ate the honey, and how magic could be a strength greater than all the arguments I could ever yell. “Could you teach me more?”


“Yarrow.”


At the sound of Father’s voice, Mother closed her eyes and murmured words I couldn’t hear. 


Father stood in the doorway, panting as if he'd run there. He looked disappointed, and I was suddenly much too warm, feeling guilty without understanding why. I squirmed, and then I saw Hester standing behind him. She looked furious. 


“Did you need something?” Mother stared at Father. “Julie and I were having a lesson.”


She said it like we did this all the time. 


“Julie,” Father said softly, “I don't think your mother is feeling very well. Would you give her some time to rest?”


I started protesting, but the look in his eyes scared me. Not because I thought he would hurt me, or Mother, but because I'd never seen him so frightened. 


I stood up from the couch and walked out of the room. I didn't acknowledge Hester, and that only made her fume harder.


I heard Father as I went down the staircase. “She's our daughter.”


Mother said, “I’m hardly unwell enough to forget that.”


His voice thickened. “I’m sorry you’re hurting. I’m sorry that I can’t do more to help you. But you can't use Julie to get your magic back.”


I didn't want to listen to the rest. I went outside and sat at the edge of the water. My mind tumbled over what Mother taught me. Then I looked up, toward Brokenstar. And, for the first time in my life, I wanted it to be mine.



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Five









 




Chapter Five




Hester


As I walked away from my sisters, a shrill sound filled my head and made my bones vibrate. My blood raced like rapids and my limbs jerked, responding to a type of pain I’d never felt before. Brokenstar was screaming.


My magic woke up and screamed in unison, a hot despair spilling through my body. I fell forward and tried to catch myself against the wall, but only succeeded in hurting my arms more. 


Finally I sprawled on the floor, panting. I reached for the Holding, through the channel I’d been able to access ever since I completed the rituals to bind me to Brokenstar. Show me what hurts you, I asked. Yet the only answer was nausea and more pain. I needed to be closer to the soil. 


My vision blurred briefly but then I saw a shape moving toward me. Arnaud, running so fast he barely touched the ground. His face was twisted with distress.


Brokenstar was suffering, and as its Rulers we shared in its pain. 


Arnaud staggered toward me and helped me up. We held each other, his heart racing in time with mine. 


“Someone’s trying to break in,” he gasped. “They’re pushing through the wards.” 


The pain subsided a little, though Brokenstar’s wail still echoed in my ears. “We need to get outside.”


Arnaud grunted agreement. We needed to be as close to our land as possible.


Outside the scent of the citrus trees greeted us, discordant next to the land’s pain and confusion. We couldn’t see the barriers from the front of the house, but we knelt and placed our hands on the soil.


The grass brushed lightly against my fingers, but as soon as I dug my fingers into the earth pain shot through me again. The scream was nearly gone but remnants of the sound still twitched against my bones. 


My magic poured out of me, crafting a path I watched as it snaked through Brokenstar toward the barriers. “Can you see that?” I asked Arnaud. 


He nodded, his eyes tracking the magic’s path. “But why haven’t the wights stopped this?”


That was when I realized I couldn’t see any wights. They should have swarmed any intruders, but where were they? 


“Your Estate’s barriers should be impenetrable.” 


I spun at the sound of Emelia’s voice. She strode toward us from the house, pulling a dagger from her left sleeve. Behind her, Damien and Keldin hovered near the door. 


She spoke again. “Only another Holder should be able to break through.” She glanced outwards as if she could see the edge of the Holding. “Seems your barriers aren’t up to the task.” Her posture made it obvious both that she wasn’t sharing in Brokenstar’s pain, and that she knew we were. “But now that the damage is done...”


“Get inside,” I snapped, angry at the distraction.


“You should—”


“This is my holding. Get. Inside.”


Emelia hesitated for a second. “Let me know if I can help.”


“That won’t be necessary.” Arnaud gave her a smile of very little warmth, then turned back to me. I glanced back only to make sure Emelia and her siblings followed my orders. 


I turned back to the soil, drawing on every scrap of magic I could find in myself, mine and Cora’s and Julie’s. 


“Hester,” Julie hissed in my left ear.


“Go away!” I was grateful Arnaud couldn’t see her.


But Julie spoke again. “The wights are all clustered behind the house. I think something’s pushing them back.” 


I glared in her direction, then raised a handful of soil to my heart. I focused on the magic within the earth, remembering the web spinning between the earth and the food it grew and the power it gave me. 


Show me what hurts you, I asked again, and felt Brokenstar’s focus surge toward me. Show me what threatens us. 


The Holding took over my vision, carrying me through Brokenstar until I saw the ring of gray stone infused with magic that surrounded the land. There was a strange smudge on the barrier as if something had been spilled on it, but it was otherwise undisturbed. The spell keeping the Holding safe was undamaged.


Yet inside the barrier there were four strange figures. They ran silently, and without looking at each other. They all knew where they were heading. 


I went cold. They’d broken through the barrier at the northeastern part of the Holding. Which put them close to our apiary, and our honey.


“No!” I screamed. My view of Brokenstar shook and then shattered as I poured power toward the intruders. The ground rumbled. I couldn’t see them anymore but I could sense them, their intrusion like a snarl in the land’s magic. They were still running. 


“They want honey!” I gasped. 


Arnaud caught his breath. “We can’t let them take anything.” The fear that crossed his face was the same I felt. If these intruders got away with even a single jar of honey, Brokenstar would be seen as weak. And with Emelia here to witness our failure, the news would spread before I could salvage a single alliance. 


“Please get me some honey.”


Arnaud nodded. Honey would make me stronger. He took off back into the house as I thought frantically. I needed as much strength as I could get. 


I stood. Brokenstar’s earth lingered on my hands like oil. I saw Cora standing just outside the house, her arms wrapped around herself. 


The thieves grew closer. 


I reached for every last fragment of magic inside Cora, pulling on the connection between us. Yet it didn’t come as easily as usual, and Brokenstar’s despair suddenly grew louder, more resonant. 


Cora felt the land’s pain as I did. 


I gritted my teeth and shoved past the block. Warmth bloomed in my chest as her power finally reached me. 


Cora cried out and doubled over, but I turned my attention back to the thieves. There was no time for her. I raced around the side of the house, trying to see the intruders, and sent another surge of power through the soles of my feet into the earth toward them. 


I finally saw them. They staggered, yet kept moving. Shame coursed through me at being thwarted by these thieves. 


I focused on the apiary, and I commanded the bees to work my will. They were a constant presence on the Holding, a million pinpoints of power swirling together in common purpose. The role they played, connecting Brokenstar’s plants and its power, made them stronger than usual bees. A mere sting would not harm them, and their lives were longer, more productive. 


I’d felt them before, been tempted to work my will on them yet fearful I might fail. But now I had no choice. 


Strike! I ordered. The bees surged out of their hives and toward the intruders. I grinned, watching them fly. I’d done it! I ruled Brokenstar, and I deserved it. 


Yet one of the intruders stepped toward the bees and raised her hands. A pale orb filled the air around them, and the bees pushed uselessly against it. 


The taste of strange magic infiltrated the air, choking me. This woman was no Holder, no sorceress come to challenge me, yet she held power. These people were more than simple thieves. But then who were they? 


I couldn’t let it matter just then. I just had to stop them before they could make Brokenstar look weak. 


Arnaud finally caught up with me, a jar of honey clasped in one hand, a small silver spoon in the other. I grabbed them from him, my mouth watering. 


Honey was Brokenstar’s pride, and as always the taste was lightning to my magic, striking and sparking. My senses sharpened, making everything around me clear and crisp and mine.


Julie still hovered nearby. I could use her.


There was another source of power, one I’d read of in the oldest of Mother’s books. She’d never spoken of it to me, but I’d found it myself. 


The power of Brokenstar’s dead was not far away, if you were already a ghost. I couldn’t go there, but Julie could, and she could catch more strength for me. 


I was the only one of my sisters who’d taken the time to learn these things, and only I deserved the power they could grant me. 


I reached for Julie’s ghost.


#




Julie


I COULDN’T STOP SPINNING. And oh, slaughtered gods, how it hurt. 


strike


find


...like before.


a basket of apples...


where?


After a second, or after three million seconds, there were voices.


The pain hadn’t stopped but now it was overpowered by the sounds, rolling and roiling through me. The sounds acted on my whole body, waves of noise that tossed me back and forth in a song I didn’t understand. 


And I was frozen, but frozen wasn't right, it was just the only thing I could equate it to now that I was a ghost. This feeling wasn't something that acted on my physical body but on...whatever I was here, and it wanted to suffocate me with its ice and endlessly overlapping voices.


never


...eaten today?


when we were...


...how—


we can


The voices were so loud, pounding through the skull I no longer had like the footfalls of frantic prey. 


Where were the voices coming from? What was going on? 


honey


too much light...


she isn’t meant to be here


I could almost see the outlines of the people speaking, but every time I tried to focus they blurred away. 


she doesn't know


tell me, said the sorceress


I gasped. That last voice was familiar, but how?


Before I could try and understand, everything wrenched back into clarity and Brokenstar spilled out around me. Where had I been? Who were those voices?


The intruders were so close to the apiary. Hester’s pull on me was stronger, like she’d caught me with hundreds of hooks. I flailed around myself, desperate to tear free, but it didn’t do any good. I screamed, but I couldn’t hear myself over the voices that wouldn't stop.


we'll never...


a spoonful...


it will be


so many


stop 


Power tore at me from a hundred angles, breaking me apart like my insides were glass-fragile. The voices weren’t speaking anymore, they only shrieked like they shared in my pain. 


A heavy thud resonated through the world, turning all the air to thick stone, and the voices drained away. The murk shattered and I could see again. Strange, flickering strands spilled from me to Hester, and the barrier keeping the bees from the intruders finally broke. 


Hester laughed, and the sound was all triumph and greed and self-righteousness and I wanted her to kill me a second time so I’d never have to hear it again.


Light flashed from Hester’s hands, and Brokenstar’s bees fell on their prey. 



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Six









 




Chapter Six




Hester


From the time we were old enough to listen, there in that crumbling house by the sea, Mother told us stories of the house we should have lived in. Brokenstar.


She told us stories of our powerful grandmother Aurelie, who’d bested all challengers to rule it.


The year after she gave us the honey, Mother asked my sisters and me to make a promise. 


There’d been a spring storm earlier that day, the sea whipping and whirling with the frantic air. We watched through the window as the harsh streaks of lightning neared. One struck so close I couldn't see, turning the world to a thing of unaltered brightness for an elongated heartbeat. 


As the light faded it left behind a brief, clear view of the Brokenstar towers. I’d heard so many stories about them that I could picture the rooms inside, filled with magic and wealth and, most of all, power. 


Tell me, said the sorceress... The song Mother had taught us rang in my mind. I’d forgotten some of the verses, but I longed to one day be able to list off all the Holding products I’d consumed. 


Father told us to stay safe inside, but young as we were, we didn't see beyond the fresh air and freedom we were convinced was denied us. We went outside the moment Father relented, and raced down the rocks to the sand. Shells dotted the beach, given up by the waters during the tumult, and Julie set to studying them, holding them up to examine their whorls and stripes, exclaiming to us when she found one of a type she'd never seen before. 


I couldn't stop moving. I’d just turned fifteen, and lately the house had been pressing in on me so much I could have sworn the walls were drawing closer to one another.


Mother felt we were safer in the house than we were outside, no matter how much Julie argued that no one else ever came to this patch of the shoreline. Ships always stayed a fair distance away as our inlet wasn't convenient for heading towards the harbor. Mother rarely put up much of a fight, but I would always see her watching us from the house, a quilt drawn around her too-thin shoulders.


But that day after the storm was different. 


Mother came outside a few minutes after we did and sat on the sand. She wrapped her pale green robe around herself, and despite her usual fastidiousness didn't seem to care about the sand speckling her.


She looked out at the sea, not at us, and said, “All three of you would be strong enough to challenge for a Holding, if your magics were nurtured. You should have your chances.” 


Those words were not far from things we'd started realizing since she gave us the honey, but hearing them from her changed everything. 


“Especially yours.” Mother looked at Julie with a mixture of pride and something strange in her eyes.


Julie looked surprised, and then she looked content, and I grew hot with envy and anger. I wanted Mother to be that proud of me. I wanted to be the most powerful one.


Cora didn't react. It wasn’t fair, the way she could hide everything she felt. She just absorbed everything she heard, and didn’t let the rest of us in. She barely even seemed proud to have more magic than me. 


“My family’s enemies have already declared that my descendants are included in the sanctions against us, but they are fools to think they can keep you from what you deserve,” Mother said fiercely. “If you can't win a Holding on your own merit, then you do not deserve one, but you all deserve the chance.


“There's a story,” Mother went on, “that my grandmother used to tell me when I was small, that her grandmother had told her, and who knows how many grandmothers back have kept it safe for us.”


This wasn’t like any story she’d told us before. 


She continued, “Our family received a prophecy, many years ago.”


This was so strange, especially from her. Stranger still, it was impossible for me not to believe her. She was so sure.


“A prophecy that our family would be threatened, and would only be saved by three sisters.”


I stilled, as my sisters did, like three half-hewn statues waiting for their final shapes. Waiting to learn how our mother's words would carve us up.


“Promise me.” She reached her hands out. She so rarely initiated physical contact. I claimed one of her hands, wrapping her cold fingers around mine. Her grip was weaker than it should have been. Cora and Julie took her other hand between them, though they looked at each other uncomfortably. 


“Promise me.” She closed her eyes and the wind picked up, whipping her hair around her face. “Promise me, my girls, that you will take back what should be yours.”


We couldn’t give her the certainty she wanted. Yet it was so tempting to say yes, just for the sake of making her happy. We could do that so rarely. We couldn’t bring her the foods she wanted, or revive the life she mourned. But maybe we could do this. 


Mother’s breathing was so shallow. Her hand shook in mind, and I knew it wasn’t from nerves. Her body was losing the fight it had waged for so long. 


My sisters and I looked at each other with small, swift glances. We all knew we wouldn’t have much more time with Mother, and knowing that made this promise feel richer than Brokenstar honey. It felt more precious than the magic of places we might never know. 


I chose, then. Some spark of Mother’s frantic hope caught me, making this seem possible. I suddenly knew this would be the best way to take care of my sisters and myself, even if I feared it was too late to take care of Mother. 


“I promise,” I said. Something eased in her posture, some weight I didn't realize was there until its absence. 


At the same time, the burden of my weakness fell from me. My sisters might be stronger, but they could not want as fiercely as I did. 


Cora and Julie were silent. I waited, trusting them. They would see I was doing what was best for all of us.


“I promise.” Julie's voice was steady and unyielding. I was never more grateful for her nature than I was then. Even she understood this was right. 


Cora hadn’t spoken yet. I willed her to join us, to lose her grip on whatever allowed her to hide her heart so thoroughly from us. I willed her to think of the magic we could one day have if we could fulfill this promise. 


“I promise,” Cora finally said. Had my will worked? Or had she come to agree with us on her own?


“Thank you,” breathed Mother, and stretched out her arms to encompass us. We huddled together within her frail, desperate arms, united like never before. Bound by a promise, and by something like a prophecy.



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Seven









 




Chapter Seven




Cora


The wights removed the intruders’ bodies when the bees were done. I was struck by the sudden, deep certainty the bodies would go into nourishing Brokenstar soil.


The bees, kept alive despite having stung thanks to the Holding’s magic, retreated to their hives. Buzzing continued, unbroken, inside my head.


Brokenstar had screamed for its Rulers to help it, and its echoes had reached for my magic through Hester’s. My muscles felt heavy, weakened by the strain of experiencing the land’s disturbance secondhand. 


I'd watched, from just outside the house's front door, as Hester killed the intruders. The stone of the house at my back kept me upright, though the world spun. I was alive, but I felt as ineffective as the bodies drifting away in the wights’ grasp. They floated towards the far edge of the Holding and disappeared behind one of the smaller buildings. 


“I won’t allow anyone to make us look vulnerable.” Hester's voice was steady as she came back up the steps towards the house, Arnaud at her side. 


I started shaking. She'd ordered the bees to kill them, with honey on her lips. Just like that. Hester looked at me with something like pity, yet in a way that suggested I should know better. She’d never lacked the willingness to be cruel. Only the capability. 


Arnaud was distraught. “You killed them.” He kept looking between Hester and the edge of Brokenstar as if he wasn’t sure which one scared him more. 


“I did what I had to do,” Hester countered, capturing his attention. She lowered her voice. “How long after someone steals from us do you think the challenges will start? Do you want to battle every Holding-hungry sorceress? I certainly don’t.”


Arnaud looked back out to where Brokenstar lay, seemingly undisturbed under the warm sun. “The wards aren’t even disturbed. How did they get inside? And the wights—”


“Holder Brokenstar,” Emelia said as she and her siblings came back outside. It was the first time I’d heard her use Hester’s title. Her knives were hidden again, and she surveyed the Holding, her brows crimped. 


Damien spotted me and broke away from his sisters. “Cora.”


I tensed as he came closer. He looked concerned, but he didn’t try to touch me. “Is there anything I can do for you?” 


I shook my head. Fatigue overwhelmed me and I let myself slide down against the wall until I was sitting. Damien frowned, bending over as if to help me up, but I shook my head again. “No. Please.”


I couldn’t stand, and I couldn’t let him hold me up. 


“Were your wards damaged?” Emelia asked, distracting both of us. 


“No.” Hester’s voice was a challenge. “I felt Brokenstar’s distress, but they were able to move through our wards without breaking them.” 


Emelia nodded tightly. “Recently, the Startlevine Holding was similarly breached. They are only a few days travel from Windshriek.” Her face was carefully free of expression. “The Estate's barrier showed no disturbance, and their wights did not intervene. Those intruders were foiled, but unfortunately one of them escaped.”


“What did they take?” Hester asked, with a concern I knew wasn't for Startlevine’s welfare. 


Emelia made a small sound that didn't bode well for Startlevine’s reputation. “They got into one of their greenhouses, and the one who got away was seen to have a basket of tomatoes.”


The edges of Hester's mouth lifted slightly. She had not allowed any of Brokenstar’s products to leave the Holding. 


Emelia gave her a small nod, then stepped aside as if giving Hester permission to go inside. Hester's brows raised at this but then she spotted me. She offered me a hand to help me up, and I knew better than to resist. I stood and she put her arm around my waist, indicating I should lean on her.


I didn't resist as she brought me back to my bedroom. What else did I think I was going to do? 


She sat me on the bed and drew a blanket over me.


“I told you there are those who want us ruined.” Her voice was rough as she tucked the soft sheets around me. “You didn’t believe me.” 


I twisted to look at her. “You killed those people.” My voice shook. 


She sighed. “I did what I had to do to keep us safe.”


“They wanted honey and you killed them.” My voice rose unconsciously. 


“They breached the Estate’s wards,” Hester said, very quietly. “I don’t care if they only wanted to breathe Brokenstar’s air. Any sign of weakness can be used against us.”


Then she left, shaking her head as if I was the unreasonable one. 


As soon as Hester was gone, Julie materialized next to me. Just like when we were little, and we'd sit in bed together while she complained about whatever Hester'd done. But now she looked at me like she was worried I'd break. “Are you hurt?” she asked. 


“No,” I said slowly, “but I felt Brokenstar screaming.” I shivered, remembering that anguish echoing through my bones. 


I leaned back against the headboard. Here with Julie like this, I could almost pretend we were all right. 


Until my stomach growled. The day had slipped past me, and dinner would be in a few hours. But thinking of the food that would ease my hunger made me feel sick. I laughed, though nothing was funny and it made my stomach feel worse. 


“Nothing’s going to change,” I said. “I’ll be just as much a prisoner on Windshriek as I am here.” I choked on a laugh caught in my throat. “But it’ll be even harder to predict what she’ll do.” Tension spilled from the top of my head through my whole body, thinking of the constant uncertainty Windshriek would bring. 


Julie frowned. “She’ll do whatever she thinks will keep her power.”


“The worst part is that I believed her,” I said bitterly. “I believed her when she promised to fix all of this. But she never meant to give us our magic back.” 


“No. I don’t think she did.”


“You knew.” I shook my head. “You always knew.”


“I didn’t want to be right,” Julie said. “And I always figured I could find a way to take it back if I had to.”


I thought of that horrible, frozen night. “I should have been the one who died."


Julie didn’t answer.


I rolled over, stuffed my face in the soft pillows and groaned. “I have no idea how to bring you back to life.” 


“I don't think Hester does either,” Julie offered. “I doubt she ever bothered trying to find out.”


I thought of those four bodies, floating away, as the bees flew elegantly back to their hives. “She killed them like it was nothing.” I said. 


“None of us matter to her.” Julie grimaced. “We never did. The only difference is that now she's got the power of a Holding behind her when someone gets in her way.”


She was right. I pressed my hands into my eyes, trying to blot out memories of the night Julie died. Died saving me from Hester’s spell. 


“She's only going to get more dangerous.” I told Julie what I'd learned from Hester, about her threats to Windshriek and what she intended.


When I was finished, Julie said, “Huh.” And, then, surprising me, “She’s really worried about other Holders coming after her.”


I nodded. “I just wish that was comforting.” My throat tightened. “I don’t want to go to Windshriek. I don’t want to leave you here!”


Suddenly her mouth quirked. “Congratulations on your engagement.” 


I blinked, surprised. “Easy for you to laugh!”


“Precisely.” Julie smirked. “I don't think even she's desperate enough to try to marry off a dead woman.”


“You're not dead!”


Julie blinked. “What would you call it?”


“Um...less alive than you were?” I couldn't get through it without laughing.


She snickered. “Well that's all my problems solved.” 


We shared a smile, but then the truth of things crashed back into me. “What did Hester do to you, out there?” I'd seen Julie near the intruders, as bright as if she were lit from inside. Arnaud hadn't reacted, though whether because he hadn’t seen or was too focused on Hester I didn’t know.


“What did it look like?” She wasn't being argumentative. 


“When Hester sent her magic after you...it made you really bright, really fast, and then you just disappeared.” 


“That's all?”


I nodded. 


She moved her hands like she meant to push her hair back from her face, though she couldn't. “I think...”


“You don't have to talk about it.” 


“No.” She shook her head. “No, I do.”


I nodded, wishing I could do something to comfort her. 


She was quiet, for a while. 


“I think I was in the world of the dead,” Julie said finally, with no emotion.


“How do you know?” It didn't seem...impossible. Not after everything we'd already been through. Just odd. 


“But it wasn’t just the dead,” she continued. “They all were tied up in Brokenstar’s magic.”


“Were they people who died here?”


“I don't know.” Her mouth twisted. “They were all part of the soil, or it was part of them...” She reached for the bedcovers like she could fuss with them, but her hands just passed through. Then her gaze snapped back to me. “Remember that time Hester got us that Holding bread? What did it taste like?”


I knew she didn't mean the almonds. “It tasted like something from a Holding.”


“But it didn't taste like the Brokenstar honey Mother gave us.”


“Of course not, it wasn’t—”


“Exactly!” She didn't let me finish. “They tasted different because they were from different Holdings. Every Estate's soil and magic are different.”


“And all these dead people...had eaten food from Brokenstar?” 


“No!” she insisted “They couldn’t use it, but it was trapping them!”


I gaped, confused. “Julie, what are you talking about?”


“They all had Brokenstar’s magic in them! Maybe they used it, before they died...I don’t understand it either, but Brokenstar touched them when they were alive, it was part of them, and they’re still here!”


“Here,” I repeated.


“I think they’re powering the Holding.” 


I’d never heard Julie so frantic before.


She shuddered. “And I don’t think Hester’s the first sorceress to do this. They seemed to know what I was there for.” She covered her face with her hands. I could still see her face through her hands but I looked away, feeling like I should. 


When Julie spoke again her voice was thick and muffled. “It was really hard to see, but I could hear them.” She lowered her hands to look at me again. “Imagine being so cold you can’t stop shivering, and you can’t imagine being warm again. It was like that, but...” She chewed on her words, frustration evident. “But that terrible cold wasn’t just acting on my body, it was trying to shatter everything about me. My thoughts, and my heart...and all those ghosts...” she paused, as we both registered her choice of words. “They can’t move on. They were trapped there, to feed Brokenstar’s magic so Hester can use it.”


“You think an Estate’s magic pulls on ghosts for power.” I said slowly, trying to understand what she seemed convinced of. “And Hester used you to get it?”


“It made her stronger.” Julie sounded distant, but then she met my eyes and her expression hurt my heart. “When she finally kills me for good I’m going to become one of them.”


I tried to say something. I couldn’t.


“Cora, if I can’t be alive again then I want to die for real.”


Julie wanted to leave. Of course she did. She was trapped here as a ghost.


With me. 


She continued, “But not if that’s what dying will mean. I don’t want to be stuck there.”


“Julie.” Her pain filled the space between us, thicker than the cloud of Brokenstar’s bees.


“I won’t let her trap me there. I don’t care what excuse she makes, what stupid promises we ever made about Brokenstar. I am done being that egomaniac’s tool.”


I desperately wished I could promise her I wouldn’t let that happen. I wished I could bring her back to life, and then we could run away until Brokenstar was nothing but bad dreams. 


“If she won’t bring me back to life”—Julie was so still she might have been fixed in ice—“I will do it myself. I will find a body. I don’t care whose it is. I will find a body and I will stay in it and I will never let her use me like that again.” She paused, her face turning wary. “Will you help me?” 


“Yes.” There was nothing to think about. 


Julie closed her eyes in relief. “Thank you.” 


“But I don't know how.” Once again, we came back to me, not knowing what to do. Me, useless. 


“Hester controls my magic,” I said, “And in seven days she’s sending me to Windshriek.” No matter where I was, I wouldn’t be free of her binding. Not as long as she had my magic in her grip.


“And I can’t follow you,” Julie said. The wards around Brokenstar wouldn’t let her through. She’d tried. “Assuming Hester doesn’t finish killing me first.”


“Even if she doesn’t...it can’t be safe for you, going back and forth to these other ghosts.”


But I knew Hester wouldn’t care about that. It wasn’t her safety at risk.


There was no longer a space for me between my sisters. And there was no space for me on Brokenstar, not with Hester there. 


“I need to take my magic back from Hester.” The realization overwhelmed me like a wave in a storm. “It’s the only way to keep her from hurting me, and maybe then I can free you too.”


Julie looked briefly surprised, and then pleased, but mostly she looked proud of me. I'd never seen that before. “Think how horrified Mother would be.”


“Think how little I care, and it would still be too much.” I surprised myself. “There must be a way to get it back.” There was a power, just in saying it. I would do this. 


I would. 


“The Estate's library.” I spoke as fast as my thoughts pieced together. “Mother's books started all of this. There must be others like them here. Hester can't be the first person to take someone else’s magic, and she was barely less ignorant about magic than we were.” She’d just been the most determined. Well, let her see how determined I could be. 


Julie gave me a look. “The library is enormous and we have seven days until she marries you off.” She considered. “We have seven days unless Hester does something to either of us before then.”


I flinched, thinking of the many-leveled library, packed with more books that should reasonably have fit on the shelves. What would Hester do if she found me in there, looking for knowledge of magic?


“I think there's an easier way,” Julie said reluctantly.


“What?”


She looked out the window. The air shimmered, evincing the passage of wights. “I think I need to go back to Brokenstar’s ghosts.”


“You can't! You just said—”


“But they know things. I could tell, they...there are a lot of them. And some of them have been dead a long time.” She leaned closer to me. “They've been steeped in magic for who knows how many years. Why hunt through books when we can ask someone who might just know?”


“It’s too dangerous.”


She rolled her spectral eyes.


“What if you don’t come back?” Julie had already undergone so much harm because I failed to keep her safe. “What if you can’t?”


“I'll come back.”


“You don't know that.” 


Her lips firmed in a way I knew meant she’d start yelling soon. “I will come back.” 


“Julie...”


“Who else are we supposed to ask? Her darling Arnaud?” She spat out his name.


I thought of the first time we'd talked about him, so long ago in that house by the sea. He’d watched the bees descend, his focus only on supporting Hester. He was Hester's victim, as we were, but that didn't mean we could trust him. 


“If we don’t figure this out before you’re trapped on Windshriek,” Julie insisted, “we’ll never get another chance.”


“Damn it.” I rubbed at my eyes, which only made them more sore. I wasn’t sleepy but my body wanted rest after the onslaught of Brokenstar’s distress. My previous triumph was fading fast, and I didn't know where to look for more hope. “Please be careful?”


“I'll float through the world of imprisoned ghosts very carefully.”


It was my turn to give her a look. “Come back.”


There wasn’t a space for me between my sisters, but it hurt to fathom being alone.


#




WHEN MOTHER DIED, OUR family grieved alone. 


We'd known we wouldn't have much more time with her. If not from the illness itself, then from her desire to be done with the path her life had pushed her onto. She'd taught us what she meant to, and drawn from us a promise, and left us less than a year afterwards. 


She died in her sleep. Father didn’t tell us, when we woke that morning. He sat at the table, his hands folded in front of him like he was determined to make a point, yet tears gathered in his eyes. And we knew.


“Her family will come for her.” It was the first he’d spoken that day, after I gave him a hug and he fell into my arms that were so unfit to hold him up. But I didn't let him go, because this was all the comfort I could give. “They have to come for her.”


But even if magic could have informed them of her death, Mother’s remaining relatives were few and far away. And no sorceress, Holder or not, would dare be seen sympathetic to her even in death, no matter the glory her family had once held. No one came for her, though Father waited at the window all day, his mouth tight with whatever words he needed to tell them.


I lingered, hoping I could help him, though he had no attention for anything but the unchanging view through the window. My own sadness made me lightheaded, casting a fog between me and anything I tried to focus on. 


Hester retreated to Mother’s study, as if certain she could find her there. 


Julie, more than any of us, knew that no one was coming. She left the house the next afternoon and returned with an expressionless man in tow, followed by an apprentice who looked like he couldn't decide whether he was thrilled or terrified to be coming into our house. The newcomers gave us small, practiced words of condolence. Julie paid them, though Father’s pay was nearly gone, and they took the body that had been our mother away. 


My sisters and I went and sat on the shore together, in rare silent harmony. I'd put myself in the middle, out of habit. Some time later, Father came out to join us, though he didn't sit but rather stood between us and the water, his grief overlaid by something even stronger as he shifted in the sand. 


“I know what she wanted for you,” he said without preamble. “She wanted Brokenstar.” 


Hester stood, graceful despite the sand under her feet. “She wanted us to have the chances we deserved.” She paused, then raised her chin. “And we will.” 


Hester's voice acted on him like a slap. He steadied himself, though he then directed his words at Julie and me, keeping Hester just out of his vision. “At first I wanted it too. A Holding, to bring you girls up on. It seemed like it would fix everything.” He shrugged, as though his shoulders were unsure how much weight they carried. “But her magic was too weak once we were cast out, and we couldn’t afford to buy Holding products.”


The three of us stared at him, struck as silent as he'd been that morning. 


He and Mother should have grown old on a Holding, instead of facing their deaths in this house on the sea, in a town that only tolerated them. But I didn't say that, because he knew it, and pretending he didn't would be more unkind than I was willing to be. 


He said, “Please, don’t pursue what she wanted. Magic will never bring you happiness.”


“Mother should have had the chance to win a Holding for herself,” Hester said. “WE should have had our chances, and you tell us to content ourselves with”—she looked at the house and her voice became acid—“this?”


“Hester,” Julie snapped. They glared at each other over my head.


“There's no guarantee that your Mother or any of you would have ever held Brokenstar,” Father said. He was right. Holdings’ Rulership did not pass through family lines. Nor did magic. None of that had mattered to Mother. 


Anyone with magic could challenge for a Holding, but without access to Holding products they wouldn’t be anywhere near strong enough. And none of that mattered if you belonged to one of the few families marked outcast.


“I know we should have lived there while our grandmother was Holder,” Hester said. “We should have been eating Holding products to help our magic flourish.”


“You couldn’t win a Holding if you tried,” Julie said.


Hester paled at the reminder of who was the most powerful sister. I looked at Julie, begging her for silence, now of all times. 


I should have known I wouldn't always be enough to keep them from clashing. But I never thought it would be such a short while until I failed completely. 


I longed to hug Father again but Julie stood on my left, holding my wrist with all the fury she couldn't rid herself of. Hester was on my right, with her hand laid on top of mine with a delicacy I knew better than to underestimate. I was a dam, holding back waters unfathomable. 


“Please.” Father's desperation slumped his posture and thickened his voice. “Please don't do what she wanted.”


That was when I realized he didn't know about the promise Mother drew from us. At the time it surprised me that she hadn't told him. It shouldn't have. 


“You can’t stop us.” Julie, flaring at one more person telling her what she could and could not be.


“I don’t want you to get hurt.”


“You’re jealous,” Hester spoke softly, but her words were a roaring storm, ready to destroy everything around us. “You don’t want us to have what you never could.”


Father looked away from us, toward the sea. 


The wind drifted through our silence as if mocking us. 


Then he said, “I never wanted magic. But I wanted you to be safe.”


Julie seethed beside me. I wasn’t sure what part of this angered her, or even if she knew. My mind spun with grief and hurt and I couldn’t form words. 


Then Hester said, “Denying our power won’t keep us safe.”


And with that, our father left us. Despair trailed behind him, sour and stale like something left out in the sun past its time. Yet none of us stopped him, and he never returned to that house. 


Not long after he left us, the tide started rising and we retreated to the balcony. I moved to the far end so I could stare not at the sea, but at Brokenstar, proud against the stark sky. Splotches of sea salt grated against my palms as I leaned on the railing. The sea spray seemed more apt than usual to find my eyes. My chest was tight, and I couldn’t relieve the pressure rising through my throat and head. 


I looked at my sisters. Hester came closer to me and inclined her head toward Brokenstar. “That should be ours.”


“Yours, you mean?” Julie asked, though with somewhat less malice than before.


Both of them looked at me, each wanting my support. Instead, I looked to Brokenstar, and then I said, “It should be ours. So let's figure out how to take it.” I paused, surprised at myself, but then Julie joined us on my other side, gripping the railing tightly. 


A common purpose soothed our discord. For the moment. 


Not long after, we turned our attention to the boy who would soon be known as the Brokenstar Beast.



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Eight









 




Chapter Eight




Julie


Inconveniently, Hester didn't spell out what she was doing when she threw me into the world of the dead. I knew what happened, but I didn't know how. 


Cora was curled up on top of her bed, watching me nervously. If I'd had any blood, I knew my face would have been red with frustration.


Stop that, I scolded myself. Getting caught up in aggravation only served Hester's ends, and I was done with that. Forever. 


I thought back to when the hooks of Hester's magic pierced me. The spikes and brightness of pain I couldn't describe, because it wasn't a kind of pain I’d ever felt while I lived. 


If Hester had taught me anything, it was that there was always more hurt to be harnessed. 


I looked away from Cora, and stopped thinking about anything but when Hester threw me out to glean magic for her. I made myself remember the voices of the dead, ringing discordantly and so, so, lost. They were so lost yet so fixed in that space, that realm they couldn't leave so that they could be drained of the power they'd once held in their veins. 


This had to be a form of rot magic, as much as the spell Hester worked to get us to Brokenstar. The dead were being held hostage for what was once a part of them. Rot magic was outlawed, yet I refused to believed that Hester was the only sorceress to ever call on this source of power. 


Still, no matter how I tried, I couldn't get back there. I didn't know the way. Before, I’d just been in the air, watching the intruders, and then I’d been shoved through a channel I didn’t know how to find again. 


I couldn't count on just getting lost and finding it like I found Brokenstar the first time. The way I found Arnaud.


I was the first of my sisters to meet him. As if that had done me any good. 


“Damn it!” I wished I could hit something or throw something or even just stomp my feet, but everything about me was ethereal and floaty and useless. 


I missed my feet touching the ground. I missed the simple, stupid acts of holding a fork, or opening a door, or sitting on a chair. Now all I could do was float, never anchored by anything but Hester's magic infesting this land. I was dead, and the world didn't want to feel me anymore, so it wouldn't let me touch it. I couldn't even get back into the realm where everything I was somehow became something approaching an advantage. 


“Maybe I can help,” Cora said slowly. She stood next to where I floated. I tried to hide my internal tantrum, but she knew me far too well. 


“I don't have my own magic,” Cora continued. “But I have Hester’s keeping mine captive. And I've eaten nothing but Brokenstar food for months now. Let me try.”


I nodded, frustrated at needing help. I'd seen Cora's face when I said I wanted to die for good. I knew I'd hurt her, and thinking of leaving her hurt me, but compared to this not-life as Hester's tool...I couldn't bear it much longer. Yet now, knowing what waited on the path of a final death, I needed a way to live again. 


But first I needed answers from the rest of Brokenstar’s ghosts.


Cora squinted, her hands twitching in front of her. “I can't tell what she did,” she admitted, her words trailing off into a frustrated grumble. 


We shared a look of useless hatred for Hester, though I knew it was harder for Cora. She'd always given both Hester and me the benefit of the doubt, no matter how many arguments we dragged her into. She scolded us both and kept us apart, so we didn't go after each other more than we already did.


Until Hester laid the curse on Brokenstar. I’m not sure if Mother dying pushed her to it, or if she just got tired of pretending, but that was the moment we realized we were nothing more than tools to her. 


“What Hester did to me isn't your fault.”


“It is!” she insisted. “I should have never let her work the curse to begin with.”


She said it like it was the truest thing in the world. It hurt, knowing she blamed herself for all of this, and knowing I would never be able to convince her otherwise. It hurt worse knowing I wasn’t sure what I believed myself. “Cora—”


“Do you remember anything specific she did?” Cora interrupted, making it clear we weren’t having that conversation now. “A word she said, or...”


“Her magic just grabbed me and forced me away.”


Cora bit her lip. “It's worth a try.” She stepped back, scanning me. “Think about going back there. Think of every detail you can remember.”


I pictured the nothingness of that place, the endless lack of anything but those voices. Stacked on top of one another, so close to toppling in an avalanche of screams. 


tell me, said the sorceress, what have you eaten today?


It was the song Mother taught us. I'd heard a fragment of it in the voices of the dead, but only then, trying to get back, did I recognize it.


Then Cora pushed with her magic. It wasn't sharp like Hester's hooks, more like the blunt pain of bumping into a wall. Less concentrated.


“Keep going,” I urged.


“I don't want to hurt you.”


I didn’t tell her she already was. “Keep going.”


She frowned at me, and pushed harder, and the pain spread all through me—


#




THE GHOSTS FOUND ME before I found them. I couldn’t see them, but I sensed them drawing close. 


new


out of place


tethered 


should know better


tell me, said the sorceress...


The cold was overwhelming.


“Um,” I spoke, though it wasn't really speaking in this place. It was more like thinking the words without having to convince my mouth and tongue to make the right shapes. There was nothing to see but at the same time I felt like there was something just out of my view. “I'm...” By the dead and bloody gods, how did one introduce oneself to the captive souls of the dead? 


“I'm Julie.”


we know you


we were you


you called on us


“That wasn't me!” 


They didn't respond, but all the same, I got the impression they were dubious.


you're like her


like Aurelie


I gasped. Aurelie was our grandmother, who'd ruled Brokenstar until her enemies orchestrated her downfall. Our family's downfall. 


“How did you know my grandmother?” She'd been dead for years. By the gods, was she here? I tried hiding my frustration when they didn't answer, the frigid expanse dully silent. That same cold that was deeper than cold spread through me again, threatening to destroy me with shivers. I finally mustered myself enough to say, “I need your help.”


There was silence, or at least what passed for silence here, the weird rushing and swishing of things I couldn't see and didn't think I wanted to. 


I didn’t know how time moved here, or how long I waited, but after an expanse of cold and trepidation, they answered me. 


life is not simple


life is not cheap


life is not what you think


“Please.” I took a chance. “Do you know what my sister did to me? The one who rules Brokenstar now?”


tore


stole


took your body from you


made you something that shouldn't be


tied you to a place not meant for you


Maybe I was getting somewhere. “She hurt my other sister, too. She stole her magic and she won't let her be free.”


she wants her power back


and you want a body


The voices were more in sync with one another, like certainty united them. I was scared, realizing how much at their mercy I was. But my fear wasn’t as strong as my desire to learn from them. 


“Yes,” I said. “That's what we want. Can you help us? Do you know how?”


They went silent, for another cold eternity. 


“I know what you are.” Hoping I was right, and hoping I wasn't. “You had magic, once, and you died here on Brokenstar. You can't get out of here, and the Holders are pulling on your for power.” By the dead and slaughtered gods, I hoped this worked.


you know of us, some of them said, yet you offer no aid.


can you help us


CAN SHE HELP US?!


There was pain in their words, hot and strange amid the bleakness. 


“What do you need?” I asked. Despair started clawing at me. What could I possibly do for them?


we need to move on! They howled. we need to be free from this soil


“I don't know how. I’m so sorry.” Not for the first time, I envied Cora her ability to hold things back. 


A propulsion of wind and sound rushed toward me. Everything turned over and over until I didn't know which way was up. And all the while that shrieking, shrill and painful, overlaid everything. 


Then it was all gone.


There was only the unnatural cold, drawing me under. Maybe I would never leave this place. Anger overcame me, but it did nothing against the chill. 


you need the power of a god


They were back. I choked on a sob as impossible tears streamed from my eyes, then froze and snapped off me into the nothingness. 


The dead were nearly visible now, a million shapes moving too fast to focus on any particular one. 


you need the power of a god 


Their voices intermingled, that surety resounding again.


power like Aurelie had


For a moment it seemed there was only one voice, and it was Mother's, but then a deluge of others poured in. 


you need the powers of those whose deaths created the Holdings


Their words thrummed through me like beams of sunlight, impossibly warm but not comforting. “How?”


tell me, said the—


But then there was a brief swirl of shouting, incoherent, and then they were gone. 


I cried out. Where were they? I still needed them! 


Yet they didn’t return. I growled in frustration, yet then another wave of cold overwhelmed me. I couldn’t stay in this place.


I thought of Cora and Brokenstar. I hated the Holding, but I could find it. The grounds, the buildings, the food and drink filling the air with smells I never experienced. I thought of everything there that was denied to me, including my freedom. But mostly I thought of Cora, waiting for me to come back, and I thought of how much I wanted to get out of this nightmare of a place. 


Finally, I pulled myself away from the dead, but found myself ripped along a path I didn’t intend.


Suddenly Brokenstar spilled out before me, as I was wrenched in a wild series of loops above it. Two contrasting sensations followed me, one rough enough to draw blood were I still alive, the other soft and plush. Both chased over and through me, so disorienting I barely registered any of the Holding passing by.


By all the slaughtered gods...


I was dragged through the air above the hives, bees buzzing around and through me, when I understood what these sensations were, the constant battle of harsh and tender.


My sister’s magics. Hester’s, intent on using me. Cora’s, unwillingly tied here and wishing to be other than an instrument of pain.


The magic that should have been mine, all stretched over and strangling this Holding.


When those sorcerers decided to slay the gods, all those years ago, was this what they wanted?


I bounced back to Cora's room with a jolt that rattled painfully through every part of me. She was exactly where she'd been, her eyes wide and her hands entangled together with nerves, clearly as startled as I was by my return. I wobbled, and was briefly grateful for my inability to fall over.


I couldn’t stop myself from saying, “I don’t think you can get away. Hester’s spells on you are so tight, your magics are so...intermingled.” The contrasting rough and smooth sensations battled through me again, and I wondered if ghosts could be torn to pieces. “And it’s all connected to her bond with the Holding.” 


Cora’s expression broke my heart, and I saw her reach the same conclusion I had.


As long as Brokenstar’s magic was strong, Hester’s hold on Cora would be too.


Cora sighed, and pressed her hands into her face. I raged, once more, at my inability to hold my sister when she suffered.


Then she said, muffled by her hands, “What if I could turn that back on her? Use her power the way she’s used mine?”


“Maybe.” I truly didn't know, but it was something near to hope, and I hadn't seen Cora have any for too long.


“There has to be a way. What did the ghosts tell you?”


“It was hard to make sense of them”—I forced myself to separate the voices, listen to the words, filter out the stuff that wasn't meant to make sense, and turn the rest into words I could give Cora—“but they said we need the power of a god.” I thought of those murmurs. “Possibly more than one.” 


Cora gasped.


Tell me, said the sorceress...


Familiar words, in the mouths of ghosts. I couldn't say why they were important, but I couldn't let them go. “There's more,” I admitted. “They vanished too quickly, but do you remember that song mother used to teach us?”


Cora blinked. “Tell me, said the sorceress?”


“That one. They said part of it. The first time I was there, and they did it again this time.”


“It's an old song,” she said thoughtfully. “Mother learned it from some relative, who got it from another...If this place you went to is full of ghosts from who knows how far back, I'm sure someone knows it.”


“But why would the ghosts say it? I think I can go back, and they might tell me more.” I didn't mention the cold, or my fear. Cora might not help me again if she knew. I had to get the ghosts to explain what they meant. 


The room's door opened. Cora froze, and I made myself invisible, but then wights surged in, blurring and pressurizing the air.


“She wants me at dinner.” Cora muttered.


I glanced at the window, noticing the sun sinking.


The wights glided closer, closer to me than they had ever ventured before. For the first time, their presence in the air formed a shape I could almost identify—


“You!” I swooped closer to the wight farthest back, trying to see them better. “You were here yesterday!” Their face was the face of the intruder who'd created the barrier against the bees. The proportions were different, sculpted atop a round head more honeybee than human, but it was her. The one who almost thwarted Hester.


This wight had broken in, and tried to take honey, and now here she was. A servant of the Holding, bound to serve Hester eternally. My horrible sister just couldn't stop. 


The wight froze, just for an instant, then kept following the others. 


“Wait, please!"


But there was no answer, no more pauses. 


Cora watched the approaching wights wearily. “She wants me.” It wasn't a question. “Julie—”


“Don't worry.” I moved closer to her and lowered my voice. “We have time.” Whatever Hester wanted her for, it was sure to involve parading her in front of Emelia and her siblings. If Cora went into that nervous they'd eat her alive. I wanted to kick Hester for that alone. Cora wasn't an object for her to use. 


Well, none of us were. That had never stopped her before. 


“Not very much time,” Cora murmured. 


“We have enough.” Slaughtered gods, I hoped we had enough. I left Cora to be shepherded by the wights. I didn't like doing it, but I had work to do


#




EVER SINCE HESTER BROUGHT me to Brokenstar, the wights had avoided me. I always figured they were too busy to bother with me. 


Brokenstar, like any Holding, required a massive and constant amount of work. The only people here? Hester, Arnaud, and Cora. A self-obsessed sorceress intent on growing her stolen power, a sorcerer who still flinched at the mention of curses, and a traumatized prisoner who couldn't do anything Hester didn't want. Not quite a farmer's ideal team.


But it didn't matter, here, because Holdings were so rich in magic that their very power could be directed toward keeping the Holding itself in order. We had always been taught that Holders infused their magic into the soil, separating off portions of their power into the wights, who then assisted with the Holding’s tending.


What Mother apparently neglected to tell us was that the wights were people who’d died on the Holding. And that made me so angry I wanted to scream, loud and long enough to convince Arnaud his house was haunted. 


Just then, in Cora's room, was the first time I'd seen so many details of a spirit's face. And it was the face of the intruder whose magic had almost held back the bees.


I waited in the hall, invisible, because while being a ghost was mostly an inconvenient state of being, it did have the occasional perk. Cora left her room. She'd changed into a dress that could have paid for our family's old house on the shore: cerise colored silk with panels of embroidery set in the sleeves and bodice and skirt, accented silver thread picking out patterns of constellations. She followed the mass of wights who'd come for her, but I was in luck. The final wight, the one I recognized, was behind Cora.


I didn't know how to do what I needed to, and I didn't have a plan, so I figured I'd just flail until I worked it out. 


I rematerialized and swooped directly in front of the wight, cutting off her path to Cora. She stilled, briefly, then made to move around me but I matched her. “Wait, please!”


She floated away from me.


That definitely didn't endear you to her. I scolded myself, only to realize how much the voice in my head sounded like Cora. 


I followed the wights another short ways, though I kept my distance. I'd delayed her enough that Cora and the other wights were out of sight, but the wight I followed didn't trace their path, instead taking off in the opposite direction. 


What was she doing? Most of the wights' tasks took place outside, with the Holding products, and I knew the wights could go through the walls the way I could. I'd seen them do it. I came a little closer, though not as much as I had before. “Will you please talk to me?” 


She'd responded when I spoke before. I knew she could hear me, though whether that had anything to do with being a ghost I wasn't sure. 


Just then Emelia's sister, Keldin, came out of a nearby room. And by the way Keldin started, she'd heard me. 


I didn't know what to do. I wasn't visible, but she stared around herself so intently I worried she somehow sensed me anyway. And if she wanted to, the wight I’d been chasing could give me away. 


Was the wights’ total loyalty worked into Hester’s control over them, along with their obedience?


But after another moment Keldin shivered, rubbed her eyes, and began walking in the same direction Cora had gone.


Well, it wasn't necessarily a bad thing to spook one of the Windshriek contingent. 


But more importantly, the wight I wanted to talk to was getting away. “Please.” I said, quieter this time.


She stopped moving.


“Will you talk to me?” I asked, though I didn't come any closer. 


“What do you want?” she asked. 


Thank the dead and slaughtered gods. 


“Are all four of you still here?” I wanted to ask a dozen questions but somehow that one rose to the top. 


“I don't know.” She drifted a hair closer, sounding impatient. “That's what I've been trying to find out. But there's so many of...us.” 


“What were you trying to do?”


“She used you to kill us.” It was less accusatory than a statement of fact, but that didn't stop me from feeling terrible. 


I couldn't disagree with her. The power I’d brought back from the ghosts had spurred on the bees. 


“Hester has me trapped here,” I offered by way of explanation. “Me and my sister.”


The wight looked unimpressed. 


“How did you get through the barrier?” I asked.


“What are you, her spy?”


I couldn't help but laugh. “You managed to piss my oldest sister off. That makes you very interesting to me.”


“And I should believe that?”


“I didn’t want anything to happen to you,” I said. “But she controls my magic. I’m as trapped here as you.”


She stared at me, her eyes unsettled, and then she sighed. “I guess we can't get any more dead than we are.”


I decided not to go into my own recent revelations regarding the dead and how much worse off we could be. 


“We were hoping for honey,” she spoke quickly, like she wanted to get this over with. “Or fruit, or anything we could take out of here.”


“But you're powerful. You nearly held back Hester’s spell!” When she was alive, she must have already had a source of Holding products.


“It's not for me.” She rolled her eyes, the movement uncanny within her translucent face. “Holding products shouldn't be confined to the sorceresses and anyone who can pay through the nose. It's all about keeping the magic to themselves, so no outsider can show up in a Holding challenge and actually get the chance to change things.” 


I got the impression she'd expressed this enough times she was beginning to lose the energy to convey just how much it angered her. Even ghost as she was, she looked exhausted. 


Guilt twisted through me, and anger, realizing just how many Hester was willing to harm. 


“You're trying to cultivate Holding products outside a Holding.” I said. 


“The soil's magic goes into the food.” She said it like it should have been obvious. “Put the food in new soil, and tend it with magic, and the power will spread.”


I stared. “That would destroy the Holdings.” I couldn’t fathom that kind of upending. 


“That's pretty much the point.”


Gods, if I could one day give someone a look as scathing as the one she gave me then, I would consider it a fine achievement. 


“How did you get in?”


“You're as bad as your sister.” She scoffed. “Brokenstar’s wards are strong, but they’re not unbreakable.”


I thought of the first day I came to Brokenstar, the first of my sisters to do so. The day I met Arnaud. 


“You got the wights out of your way.” They’d all avoided the intruders that day, not helping or interacting with them but just silently streaming in the opposite direction, not getting involved. “You subverted them somehow.”


She looked like she was about to reply, but then the spectral planes of her face fell. “Lot of good any of it did us.” She shook her head. “Leave me alone.” 


She drifted away before I could speak again, but I didn’t follow her. 



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Nine









 




Chapter Nine




Hester


When I worked Brokenstar’s curse, balanced between my blood and my sisters’ and the blood we stole from Arnaud, all my hard-won magic reached from me towards him. It locked his magic away from him, and made his presence enough to nullify any magic around him short of the deepest powers wrought within the Holding soil. Not even I could counteract the oldest remains of a dead god. Yet. 


Later, I pieced together the full effect of what I’d done.


Less than a day after I laid the curse came the first attempt to breach Brokenstar’s walls. I'd known such an upending of power couldn't go unnoticed.


The Holder of Banewood had tried to take what she saw as free before anyone else had the same idea, storming the barriers of Brokenstar only to be pushed back. An Estate’s barriers were connected to the deepest part of the land’s magic. As I’d hoped, they’d grown even sturdier in response to the threat I’d created. While Arnaud suffered under the curse, no other could get inside to take Brokenstar from him. 


And when the Holder of Banewood failed, nursing her humiliation like a hot, thick drink on a winter eve, she coined the nickname Arnaud loathed so much: The Brokenstar Beast.


Though there was no physical aspect to his transformation, merely the nullification of magic, the stories swirled and warped into tales of the monster lurking within Brokenstar, destroying both magic and anyone unlucky enough to cross his path. 


Holding merchants whose normal rounds included Brokenstar took with them stories of what they'd seen, though none had dared approach since the curse.


And with those stories traveled stories of the one who laid the curse, compiled from Arnaud's early, mostly ignored attempts to explain. A mysterious sorceress, who did not give her name, who took his blood and used it to work a curse against him.


All as I had hoped for.


I needed several days to recover from laying the curse. Then I went to the village and made the necessary pretense of sadness to get the undertaker to come and collect Julie's body. It was starting to smell, and I had no use for it any more. 


I hadn’t meant for Julie to die. I’d meant to take her magic first, yet I hadn’t been strong enough, even with the blood, to overcome her. I’d had no choice but to drain Cora. Julie shouldn’t have interfered. 


The same expressionless man with the same apprentice, slightly older now, came to the house. Yet after agreeing to what I asked, the undertaker said to me, “Your father seemed a decent man. I'm sorry for what happened.” 


I was confused. Father had been gone for several weeks, but I’d heard no news of him. I couldn’t imagine he’d gone to the town. 


I paid the undertaker two extra coins to tell me everything he'd heard. 


He wasn’t sure where Father had gone at first, after losing Mother and then watching the three of us turn into something he feared. But he knew that the same day the curse was cast, Father returned to the town. The undertaker had been in the tavern when Father declared, haggard and drunk, that Brokenstar was to blame for everything that had befallen our family. And he was determined to go to Brokenstar himself. 


The undertaker, along with a few other well-meaning souls, had tried to dissuade him, but he wouldn’t listen. Later, a Holding merchant who stopped in the town had told them the end of the story, that Father had tried and failed to get onto Brokenstar only to be taken prisoner. The Holder, Arnaud, was convinced Father was the opening move of some other Ruler’s plan to overthrow him. 


The next day, I went to Brokenstar. 


Though the path twisted under my feet, slyly steering me away from the Holding, I used my sisters’ magic to pin down the ground, forcing it to lead me to its true destination. 


I could go no farther than the barrier, but once I was there I simply waited, trusting in the work I'd done so far. 


Arnaud appeared, eventually, not with magic but by simply unlatching a gate. Father was with him, though he didn't acknowledge me, instead staring past as if wondering whether the rest of the world would be any kinder to him. He was flanked by the kind of shimmering oddness I would soon recognize as wights. They fascinated me, but also reminded me uncomfortably of Julie's ghost, still haunting our house but avoiding me as thoroughly as Cora was.


The Brokenstar Beast looked wary, but most of all he looked tired. 


“Do you know who I am?” I asked.


“Which Holder do you work for?” His voice was thin. 


What would he do, I wondered, if I truly was what he suspected? Without his magic, he would have no choice but to retreat, needing Brokenstar itself to protect him. Yet here he was. What did that say of him?


“I work for no one,” I said gently, and shrugged to show him my hands limp at my sides, holding no weapons and preparing no spells. “This man is my father. I'm very sorry he's disturbed you like this. He'd gone through a great deal lately,” I paused, but only for effect. “Our mother died recently, as did my youngest sister.”


Father looked at me then, his eyes accusatory. He knew me well, but I refused to be cowed. He wouldn't understand anyway. 


I said, “Let my father go and I will stay in his place. He will not strike against you if I am here.”


“How can I trust you?” Arnaud asked.


That was everything I needed.


“Look at me,” I murmured. “I am exactly as you see me.”


Arnaud had been through a lot by that point, but he was perfectly lucid. He understood in precise, painful detail everything that was happening to him. He just didn't understand why. 


I continued, “Your curse would destroy any illusions I worked.” In truth, as my blood had gone into the curse's making, I was exempt from its effects. He didn't need to know that. 


He watched me, for long enough I began to wonder if my plan might fail.


But then he nodded, slowly, and said “All right.” 


“Hester—” Father exclaimed, but then wilted. He stared at me, and I kept my face perfectly fixed. Care for my father, sympathy for Arnaud, all wrapped up in the sort of charm that could be nothing but genuine. Father sighed. I knew he saw through me, and we both knew it didn't matter. 


“You should go,” Arnaud said, gesturing for the wights to release him.


Father and I traded places, and we did not look at each other any longer. I didn't care where he went. He'd long ago proved he would not be my ally.


#




LIFE ON BROKENSTAR was intoxicating. From the moment I stepped onto the soil every sight and breath reminded me of what I almost had.


The air was always clear, the Estate's magic keeping the weather and seasons inside balanced precisely as the soil needed them to be. The smell of growing things and the buzzing of bees were constant, galvanizing undertones. I spent most of my time walking the grounds, learning the smells and textures of what grew there, practicing how to dig my fingers into the soil, or lace them through the vines and petals of plants, to pour my magic into the Holding.


I believe this was why Arnaud spent most of his time indoors, and left me to my own devices. Arnaud was polite when he did speak to me, if distant. The wights had started storing their finished products in the small buildings outside the main house, to keep them away from him. Only after the curse’s breaking did I realize how distant—and diminished—the rot magic had kept the wights.


I bided my time and used it to learn about this beautiful place, the land Mother always wanted for us. What would she think, to learn I'd been the one to claim it? 


In my memory she told Julie she was the strongest, constantly raising her above me. Yet each time I recalled this, I looked out at Brokenstar. 


If I went to the kitchens in the morning, there would be a plate of food for me to breakfast on, and a full jug of water from the spring. After a few days, they also left me pots of fragrant herbal tisanes, so hot I must have only just missed the one who brewed it.


I still held Cora's and Julie's magics deep within my own power. The more Brokenstar food I consumed, the more my magic shivered and danced with growing strength.


Some nights, Arnaud made us dinner. 


Holding merchants no longer came to Brokenstar, afraid the Brokenstar Beast would nullify the magic in all of their products and ruin an entire season's earnings. 


Consequently, the meals Arnaud prepared were concocted from ingredients already stored in the main house’s extensive cellars. 


“I'm sorry,” he said after presenting me with a meal centering around smoked fish for the third night in a row. 


“Why?” I asked, smelling the salt and spices a faraway Holding had used in preserving the fish. He'd also cooked grain, plump and fluffy, and both dishes were topped with small spoonfuls of preserved kiwi, which I'd never seen before. “This looks lovely.” I did not acknowledge the inconvenience, nor the curse causing such.


He was silent, setting his own place after he set mine. He poured us both glasses of a wine he'd also brought up. It was crisp and dry, filling the room with the scent of melon.


“There was so much produce downstairs,” he began “before...”


Before his curse meant winter casks, so crucial for preserving produce, could not survive in his presence.


“I understand,” I offered, giving him a smile as he gave me a full glass. “It's no bother.”


It was all to my benefit for us to spend time together. 


There were several silent, awkward dinners. But as the nights passed, he became more willing to speak to me of his life, more relaxed in my presence. 


The food in the cellars would only last so long, but as our stores of food dwindled, our conversations blossomed.


He seemed kind, and he could make me laugh, sometimes enough that I forgot the true circumstances of why we were having a meal together. 


Eventually we spoke of his curse, and we spoke of who might have been to blame. That mysterious sorceress who took his blood. He never mentioned just how Julie managed to do it, and despite my curiosity I didn't dare ask too many questions about it. 


There were many who looked to extend their own power by taking over Holdings beyond their own. Many of those still arrived at Brokenstar's borders, rife with plans that never flourished. Why else had there been Holding Wars in the past?


But Arnaud hadn’t recognized the sorceress who took his blood, and had no clues which Holder she might have been affiliated with. 


Sometimes we didn't speak, taking comfort in a quiet I didn't expect, but found I welcomed. When we were silent, I didn't need to lie. We rarely touched, beyond the small contacts of friendship as it strengthens. He was not interested in that aspect of our relationship, which was a relief. I found him very handsome, and would not have minded if he wanted more, but there was something to be said for having one less deception to carry out. Still, we took a kind of comfort from one another’s presences.


And my magic grew stronger every day, though I did a very good job of keeping this from his notice.


One night, over a meal smaller than we might have wished, I told him that I thought I knew a way to break his curse.


How joyous it was when my attempt succeeded. His magic was restored and with it the full health of the Brokenstar Holding.


I lifted the curse in the middle of spring, the prime season for minstrels to write their own variations on the story and carry them far and wide. One especially silly ditty spoke of the Holding being healed by love.


He asked me to stay with him then. To join with him in ruling Brokenstar, and to take the burden of managing its relationships with other Holdings, which weighed on him even more alongside the stigma of his curse. To stay on Brokenstar, with the true balance of our partnership a thing no one but us needed to know about. 


So I bound myself to that beautiful soil where once a god was slain. I took the bindings of ritual and word, and rejoiced in the knowledge that the worst of this was all behind me.


Now my sisters would realize I was the only one of us strong enough to fulfill the promise we’d made. 


Now I would have the life I deserved.



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Ten









 




Chapter Ten




Cora


When I woke the next day, I knew Julie was right. I couldn't count on finding the answers in the library in the time left to us. Maybe the ghosts would be forthcoming with more answers. 


But I decided, after a night dreaming of bees and a morning of stewing, maybe I didn't have to wait around for them to fix my problems for me. 


When Hester lifted Arnaud's curse, and became the Holder of Brokenstar alongside him, she completed the ritual necessary to bind herself to the Holding’s soil. 


At that time, I was the only one left in our family's house. I'd occasionally leave the room, which was now only mine, for food or water, and then return. I forgot about my cleaning work in the village. Sometimes I'd stare at the sea, considering if I should walk into it.


I spent most of my time trying to sleep, and failing.


Sometimes I saw Julie’s ghost. Every time made me throw up, as if my body couldn't stand how wretched I was. Realizing all over again that she'd died because I couldn't save her.


No one was there to summon a doctor, and the haze I was in made it seem reasonable to simply lay there, waiting for the pain to take the rest of me away. I couldn't rid myself of the feel of Julie in my arms, dead. It lingered on my skin like oil, suffusing deep into the nightmares lacing my rare sleep. 


After some time I realized the pain had changed, from a bright fire into a duller, but no less constant, ache. 


One day, within that empty house, as I went down the stairs in search of water for my parched throat, my vision darkened. I crashed against the wall as I tried to catch myself, scrabbling for purchase as I slid down one step, and another. Finally, many bruises later, I grabbed the stair rail with both hands and lowered myself to sit, and then instead of the darkness I saw Hester. 


It was overwhelming. I somehow saw both her and saw through her eyes at the same time. It made no sense, and it made me sick.


That day, from afar, I watched her complete the ritual of chalice and knife, as so many sorcerers had done before her on Holding soil. I saw the room she was in. I had trouble, after the fact, fixing my mind on precisely what it looked like, but in all the time I'd been at Brokenstar since then, I knew I had never been in that room. 


Now I needed to find it. 


I had no idea when Hester would summon me next, or come looking for me. But I had to take that chance. I was done letting my fear of her overpower everything else. 


I realized I'd been moving with no particular direction. I only had a vague sense of where to start. There were parts of the house, not to mention the Holding itself, where I'd never been. 


“Cora?”


I turned to see Damien coming up the hallway behind me. “Damien. Um, hello.” I sounded awkward, and he looked equally awkward, not coming any closer.


Dinner the previous night had been uncomfortable, with the two of us seated next to each other without saying much, and our sisters negotiating points of the agreement our marriage was to cement. 


Damien had made occasional comments about the food, always with a hopefulness suggesting he was open to a truce between us, but I'd found it hard to answer with anything more than mumbles. 


“Ah,” he cleared his throat and tugged at his left sleeve as I considered how rude it would be to just run away. “I was going to go for a walk, as it's such a nice morning.” He gestured at the picture window nearby, and as if on cue a large bluebird flew by in the remnants of dawn, chirping loud enough to be heard in the house. “Would you care to join me?”


“I can't,” I said. A part of me wanted say yes. Wanted to believe that he was kind, and that perhaps a future on Windshriek might not be horrible. But I knew better. 


He looked confused, which was when I realized he expected me to give him a reason. He tugged at his sleeve again. He was nervous, and I understood why. 


Hester was making me marry him so she could keep her eyes on Windshriek and keep them in line. 


Emelia was making him marry me to hold off the threat of Hester. 


All of which had been decided before Hester set the bees on the intruders. Emelia had probably ordered him to spend time with me. “Look,” he said, coming closer though not close enough to make me uncomfortable; “I know you don't want this. I don't either.” He shrugged. “Count on my sister to dredge up some old Holding tradition when it suits her purposes.” 


From the conversation at dinner I'd gathered that arranged marriages like this were not strictly uncommon among Holdings, but the custom had fallen out of fashion enough that, like Hester, Emelia had never negotiated one before. 


Damien continued: “But they're not going to give us a choice. When...when we get married”—he shifted uncomfortably—“I promise your life on Windshriek will be good.” He gave a small, bashful smile that under different circumstances might have been endearing. “You have my word I will never ask anything of you.” He looked behind him like he expected Emelia to arrive, daggers drawn. “Would you join me on a walk? We can talk, or not. It might makes things easier if our sisters see us cooperating.”


Well, fine. This was awful for both of us, and it wasn't his fault. But any moment I spent with him was a moment I couldn't be looking for my escape, and there were too few of them left already. 


“I can’t,” I repeated, more firmly, because he wasn’t owed an explanation for anything I did. Then I kept walking, and didn't stop until I was sure his footsteps weren't following me. 


I had to remember what I saw the day Hester did the ritual. If I could only separate the truth from the dizziness and pain I'd felt at the same time. 


Something like a spider web brushed against my arm and panic bubbled up. I drew my arms to my chest, avoiding the contact. No matter how innocuous, any touch could so quickly morph into the slashes of Hester's spell, back to hurt me again. 


I closed my eyes, telling myself I would not be hurt. Hester wasn't there. 


Yet when I looked, there was no spider web. There was a hand, pale and wispy, connected seemingly to empty air.


They pulled back their hand immediately, letting it return to the intangibility of the rest of their form. I would have backed away, except that I could see...


The face of a ghost. Not Julie, for all the features shifted and reformed like a reflection in wind-whipped water. And not a wight, radiating Hester’s will. This was something else. 


Suddenly, the hand gestured to a second hand that shimmered into existence out of nowhere, holding a lit torch giving a small, constant warmth. They held it at a deliberate angle suggesting they were keeping the flame from the rest of their body, a body there if still out of my sight.


They moved sinuously, surging forward only to stop and turn back to me. 


They wanted me to follow them, and somehow I understood this wasn't on Hester's orders. 


“Where?” I asked quietly. This was so odd, I was afraid of speaking too loudly. 


Their only answer was to drift a little farther and turn back again, with what seemed like a huff. 


I followed the strange ghost, on a route that avoided the grand staircase that cut through the center of the house.


Even after so long at Brokenstar, I still sometimes got turned around in the house, because it was so big. But the ghost never hesitated, and it wasn’t long before we were deeper in the house than I'd ever been. There were no windows here, only the light from the spirit's torch. 


I hesitated, once, at the edge of a strange corridor. The ghost surged back to me, a hand reaching out without touching me. I paused, apprehensive, then stretched out my fingers, just touching the edge of its ethereal hand. 


I gasped as a small pulse of...something passed from the ghost’s hand to mine, as if an air current could have an emotion. 


It was sympathy, and it was solace. 


So I kept following.


I wanted to ask where we were going, but didn't think I'd get an answer. I also wanted to leave, because I knew too well that nothing of Brokenstar could be trusted, yet the very strangeness of the spirit's behavior compelled me. 


The house was colder here, wherever we were. There were no windows to let me know what level we were on. Soon we reached a dead end and I paused, unsure. 


The ghost kept moving forward and extended a hand to the wall. At their touch, a shining, garnet-colored patch appeared on the stone. It gleamed, like the hand had uncovered a piece of precious rock lodged in the wall. 


Then the color extended outward in spikes like insect legs, growing longer as they stretched out in every direction. The air grew warmer and I smelled spice, rich and redolent, seeping out from the kaleidoscopic pattern blossoming on the wall.


It was cardamom, as if someone had just taken a spice cake from the oven, all that glorious smell spilling out to tempt anyone in range. My mouth watered. There was so much cardamom I couldn't smell anything else. The air grew even warmer, though the only source of heat I saw was the small, consistent flame on the spirit's torch. Then the flame flickered, and I heard a low sound. It sounded like a heartbeat.


The pattern completed itself, now encompassing the entire wall in crisp red-purple lines. As the flame waved it highlighted different parts of the pattern in turn. The color changed, the violet giving way to the red. 


At the center of the pattern there was a many-sided shape of solid color. I stepped forward and the pulse intensified, thrumming under my feet and vibrating through my ankles. The ghost moved the torch closer to the wall, as if concerned I couldn't see properly. 


Slowly, I laid the palm of my right hand against the richly colored shape. The pulse echoed through my palm, up my arm and into my chest, meeting my heartbeat. The two were out of sync, like musicians who'd never played together before. Until, after too many discordant moments, they finally matched. My heart beat in time with whatever waited for me here. 


I turned to the ghost, though I didn't take my hand from the wall. “Thank you,” I said. “So much.” I knew, without knowing why, that I would never have found this place without them.


They made a movement vaguely like a bow, and I hoped they understood my gratitude. 


I looked back at the wall, where the pattern had created a new outline. The outline of a door. 


I pushed on it, and the wall gave a little, but then hardened again, like a recrimination against my fingers. I tried again but it responded by becoming even less pliant. 


“Can I come in?” I asked aloud, though I felt ridiculous talking to a self-decorating patch of wall. The stone warmed under my hand, but didn't budge. 


I thought of what Hester did to Julie, throwing her to the dead to bring back power. I thought about when I did the same to Julie myself, after she goaded me into putting enough force into it. 


Magic was strange, and magic was incomprehensible in so many ways, and magic had made me miserable enough I wished I'd never heard of it.


But, as my eyes traced the patterns in front of me, I wondered how much of magic was just making your wishes known. 


Well, I wanted to get through to whatever was on the other side of this. So I pushed on it again, but gently, waiting for permission. I pushed with my hands but I also pushed with my magic, that power that was nourished by every meal, every cup of tea or glass of wine Hester put in front of me with such feigned care for my comfort.


I reached for that power, and it answered me, and I poured it into the door. 


The pulse grew louder, and my arms shook.


Julie had said Hester’s hold over my magic was like knots. I envisioned myself taking a knife to the air around me, freeing threads that I could then wrap around the obstacle in front of me. 


I couldn't tell, as Julie apparently could, what of the power was truly mine and what of it was Hester's. I didn't care. I imagined my hands scooping up power like a spoon gathering honey, then pressed it against the door. Some of the magic dripped off, falling away from my command. But so much more of it stayed. 


I ordered it again, delving as deep into its strength as I could. 


With a sound so strangely resonant I couldn't be sure if I only imagined it, the door softened and then dissolved.


There was a room on the other side. I stepped through the space where the door had been, and warm air overwhelmed me. 


This was the place I'd seen through Hester's vision. 


“The ritual.” I spoke softly, but the room bounced my words back at me fivefold.


I braced myself instinctively, yet nothing struck at me. My fear of her wouldn't go away, but there was something about being in this place that had granted Hester power that served as a small bastion against that fear. I'd gotten here, with my magic, and that filled me with a kind of confidence I hadn't felt in so long. 


The room was eight-sided, though the walls stretched so high they must have encompassed every level of the house, and the farther up I looked, the more it seemed the number of sides had changed. The walls were patterned with honeycomb shapes that echoed the design of the room, painted in soft gold and amber. It was like being inside a drop of honey, suspended in the sweetness, unable to get my bearings. There were windows, at least two floors overhead, scalloped red-bronze metal worked around them like wreathes. A soft fuzz of light came through them, though I couldn't recall ever having seen what they must have looked like from the outside, in all the time I'd been here.


The thrumming dissipated, and my heartbeat was so quiet I placed my hand on my chest, waiting to feel it beat. 


A new sound began, this one seeming far away, a soft but not unpleasant buzzing. 


The air felt different and I saw the ghost coming closer to me until they stopped at my side. Vague flickers of their body moved in and out of my vision, though their face remained frustratingly absent. The small flame's light colluded with the light from the windows, forming strange patterns that darted around the room. 


“Thank you,” I said again. I don't know if I deserved whatever this kindness was, but it seemed purposeful.


Behind me, the door groaned as it started closing, the stone recreating itself from the outside in. The pattern painted itself again but much faster this time, and reformed into a perfect mirror of what I'd seen on the other side. Then the pattern faded, leaving featureless stone behind. 


I didn't know how to get out. I didn't know if I could get out. But the ghost was still there. 


I still didn't know if I could trust them. But I had to trust in something, so I turned my back to the wall and looked at the room. 


Everything still smelled of cardamom, spicy yet sweet, just shy of being overpowering. Now, though, I noticed something I couldn’t pinpoint underneath the cardamom. It kept growing stronger and then weaker, like it was caught in a breeze sweeping it away from me.


The torchlight wasn't enough to see the far end of the room. But just before where the light failed was a dais, raised up by a low stone slab. Its sides sloped in a way that seemed to change, like the room's walls. A pedestal rested atop it, a structure I'd seen once before through Hester's eyes. 


On top of it, also eerily familiar, there was a chalice and there was a knife. 


The chalice was small, with a short stem and a shallow bowl that would only hold a few mouthfuls of liquid. It was metal, surprisingly cold amid the room’s warmth. A small, golden-orange stone was pressed into the lowest part of the bowl. 


The knife's blade was as clean as if it had never been used, the hilt crafted of polished jasper. 


I remembered the knife Hester used when she bound Julie and I to her, slick with peach juice and blood. I remembered seeing Hester use these items, here, what seemed like a lifetime ago. Cutting herself with this knife, combining her blood with Brokenstar soil in this cup. The same ritual Arnaud must have done, and our grandmother when she ruled here, and every Holder of Brokenstar stretching back as long as this land had been the resting place of a slain god. 


It might as easily have been me who stood here all those months ago, letting these objects drink my blood and give me power in return. 


Anger burned at the thought that it should have been. Why wasn’t I the one to win the glory among my sisters? 


I looked at the chalice and knife. I wanted to touch them again, but I knew I couldn't just try to bind myself to Brokenstar. Even if I succeeded, Hester and Arnaud would sense it immediately.


I need another way, a stronger way, to take Brokenstar from them. 


I wouldn't hurt Arnaud unless I had to. This wasn't his fault, being caught up in our schemes. But I would have my freedom.


The ghost drifted forward, illuminating the space on the other side of the dais. The room narrowed into a tunnel curving away into the darkness. I left the knife and chalice and stepped off the dais.


“Will you come with me?” I asked the ghost The darkness ahead scared me. “Please?”


Their fragments of form, and their flame, floated forward.


I kept walking. The ceiling lowered gradually, and it wasn't long before I could brush the tips of my fingernails against it, the chill making me hiss and jerk away. 


Soon I realized we were heading upwards, the ground minutely sloping and turning in circles like it was a flattened spiral staircase. It went up and up, a hungry, twisting darkness that turned all the previous heat to frost. And with every revolution, every pain in my shins as we ascended, I understood less and less why I was doing this. 


I didn't have to rule Brokenstar for it to keep me safe. As long as I wanted, it would nurture me. Hadn't I realized that already? Even though I was increasingly unsure, with every passing day and choice, whether I was worthy of being nurtured.


It would be so much easier to go back, let the Holding feed me something delicious. And there would be tea, hot and rich enough to chase away this chill. I wouldn't have to think about all this work, and this strain on my body, because after all was it that important—


The ghost darted toward my face, the torch almost singeing my nose. I shrieked, falling backwards only to catch myself on the wall with a painful impact. 


I watched the fire, shaking. It had come so close...


The ghost hung back, as if regretful.


“What...” 


But they made a movement that seemed meant to shush me. I suddenly understood.


It wasn't me, thinking those things. It was the voice I still heard murmuring, coming from the walls, urging me to rest, to leave this behind, to not worry about what might wait at the top. 


The ghost saved me from whoever that voice belonged to.


Don't concern yourself with this, the walls murmured, sounding so much like my own mind, go back, you can rest...


“No.” I said, loud as I dared, and then kept going. 


But the voice wouldn't stop.


I lost track of how long I'd been on this upward path. The voice got louder and louder until finally I placed my hands over my ears and started reciting the only thing I could think of. The song Mother taught us when we were little, the one Julie said she heard the dead speak. 


Tell me, said the sorceress, what have you eaten today?


A pear from your garden


An apple so crisp


A peach sweet as nectar


All the fine bounty you won from the gods


As I repeated the words Mother taught us, I imagined the scorn on her face if I gave up now. The shame that thought sparked lived deeper in my blood than anything this place could whisper to me. 


I chanted every verse I could remember. When I forgot parts I just replaced them with others. All this patchwork of verses had to do was overpower the voices that meant me ill.


I only realized I couldn't go any farther when I nearly collided with the ghost, who thankfully pulled the torch out of the way in time. 


We were in a thin cylinder of a room, with small windows showing me the Holding from higher up in the house than I'd ever been. I realized where we had to be. The house's tallest tower, damaged in a storm during the last Holding War, yet never repaired. 


Which meant something here was worth hiding. 


The room was empty but for a small wooden desk and chair, placed to look through one of the windows and see the apiary. It was too far away to see the bees but I pictured their measured movements, nourishing the plants and forming that delicious, terrible honey. 


I sat in the chair cautiously, making sure the delicate-looking timbers took my weight. I was tired, and I was confused. 


The top of the desk was bare but there was a small imperfection in the wood, as though a tiny piece of honeycomb had been pressed into the surface and darkened over time. 


I touched it, then felt silly when nothing happened. But as I pulled my hand back it brushed against something solid. Color flashed briefly. I pulled away in surprise and the color vanished. 


I put my hand there again, and color bloomed. I flattened my hand under my palm and a book became visible. 


It was old, older than any of Mother’s books. The cover had once been green, with gold worked into the binding, but now the fabric was scratched and worn, with only the smallest remaining hints of whatever text was once stitched into the front. The spine had also lost its title to time. 


I raised my hand. The book disappeared. I lowered my hand, and it returned. 


I moved my other hand over the rest of the desk, and other similarly battered books came in and out of view at my touch. There were at least seven, but my arms weren't long enough to reach the back of the desk, which seemed far larger than it could possibly have been. 


Something about the first book attracted me. I placed both hands on it, illuminating as much as I could.


It didn’t open quickly, as if the pages had grown gluey with disuse, but at last the spine ceded to my hands.


The writing was dense, and crossed over itself. But I forced myself to take in every word, as I paged through, searching for anything to explain why the ghost brought me here. 


There.


A page halfway through the book caught my eyes, as if its text burned with light. 


For when a Holding must be taken from its claimant.


I dove forward, my nose filling with the must of decayed vellum and ink. I traced my fingers over the instructions, trying to separate the words I needed from the crossed words keeping them from me. 


Slowly, I broke the words I needed free. I read them over, and over, desperate to fix them in my mind. 


The spell called for three pieces of fruit, picked at the perfect ripeness only Holding soil could bestow on its produce.


The Holdings weren't named, only referenced on a map with none of the designations I was used to seeing. Yet its shapes were the same as the map Mother used to show us, teaching us of the Holdings in her frenzy to make up with knowledge what we lacked in magic. I pictured the map she'd used, overlaying those stylized, thick-lettered Holding names on the sketch in the book, until I understood what the spell asked for. 


A pear from Treelight.


An apple from Marrowgreen.


A peach from Brokenstar. 


I guessed the third before I reached it. Why did...


They were familiar, because I'd only just sung them to myself. 


They were the fruits consumed by the one the sorceress questioned. Stated by the song's narrator in response. In no verse I knew, nor any explanation Mother ever attached to it, was the narrator named or identified. Yet the same lyrics were here in this strange, invisible book.


The song was a recipe. A recipe for power, when you consumed the items it listed. 


A recipe for when a Holding must be taken from one who had claimed it. 


The song was the key to overthrowing Hester. It was right here. Exhilaration sparked through me, but it was tempered by terror. Now there was no going back. 


I had to talk to Julie. 


I raced back the way I'd come, gaining new bruises as I misjudged the closeness of the walls. The ghost followed, though I often moved faster than they could keep up, throwing my feet forward and down into the darkness. 


Yet at the bottom, the door I'd come through was still closed, silent and uncaring. I skidded to a stop, breathing heavily as I tried to find a way through. 


I had to trust in something. 


I laid my palms where the door had been, imagining my heartbeat as a battering ram. The stone was rougher on this side, as if fewer hands had touched it. As if many had managed to get in, but not out. 


Open! I ordered. 


The pattern flared bright again, and then the wall dissolved. I darted through as fast as I could. 


Soon the way we'd come started making sense and then I reached a part of the house I recognized. The ghost disappeared down a different hallway. Whatever had happened, they were done with me for now. 


Nothing here was different, expect for the passage of time. It had been morning when the ghost found me, and now strong noon light came through the windows, and somehow it looked tainted. I went back to my room as the lines of the song danced through my head with heavy steps. 


#




JULIE WAS IN MY ROOM when I got back. 


“It's the song!” I gasped out the moment the door was closed, my exertion catching up with me. “It's about how to steal a Holding from its Holder.”


Julie's eyes widened, and after a moment said, “No wonder Mother made us learn it.”


“You think she predicted this?”


She shrugged.


Our mother taught us three things: the Holdings, this song, and the revenge she was determined we'd take. 


“The fruits,” I couldn't stop talking, as if I'd lose the words by not saying them, “the pear, the apple, the peach, it's Treelight and Marrowgreen and here, right here, that's why the ghosts talked about it!”


Julie looked about to say something, but then just nodded. 


The more I thought about it the more sense it made. What better to overpower a Holder than the power of other Holdings, intertwined within one sorcerer. “This could be enough to get my magic back.” 


“It would be a meal to please a sorceress.” Julie's voice was distant with consideration. “But how are we supposed to get them for you?”


The wave of emotion I'd floated on all the way back broke, leaving me adrift. I needed the power of other Holdings to take this one, but how could I escape Brokenstar before Hester sent me to Windshriek? Only six days were left before the last vestige of my freedom dissolved. 


Suddenly the house shuddered and I lost my balance, shrieking in pain. Hester was pulling at my magic. Julie looked helpless, unable to steady me. 


I imagined my magic as an ember within myself, almost burned out. A thin trail of smoke drifted from it, in the direction my magic was pulled. “I still can't resist her.” I was already moving toward the door. 


“Me neither,” Julie muttered. “Look, I learned something about the intruders from yesterday.”


I started. “What?” But then Hester pulled harder and I grunted in pain, my shoulders curving forward. 


“Later. Let's go.”


As though we had a choice.


We raced towards where Hester wanted us. My mind churned with thoughts of magic, and fruit, and power. 



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Eleven









 




Chapter Eleven




Hester


On the second night of Windshriek’s visit, Arnaud and I went for our nightly walk before dinner. Yet as we reached the citrus trees, the pain of the barrier being breached struck again. Both of us collapsed, though I recovered first, more quickly this time.


Who did these intruders think they were, attempting to play games with me? They thought they could steal everything I’d fought for?


It was embarrassing for this to happen again. But it would be the outcome, not the situation, which traveled to the ears of other Holding Rulers. Let them all fear what I could do when threatened. 


Perhaps then they would not try to take Brokenstar from me. 


I knelt and reached into Brokenstar's soil, my soil, asking it to do my will. I'd bring all the force of my anger against these intruders.


“Hester!” Arnaud’s voice was ragged.


“Send the wights after them,” I gasped out, tearing my mind away from the magic long enough to speak. I stood, feeling the magic rise with me, imbuing my body with strength.


The earth rumbled, the ground roiling underneath me. Air battered my face, and the world crashed like a hundred thunderstorms.


Except it all only happened within my magic. The channel between me and Arnaud and the Holding was distressed, the magic snarling like a cornered animal.


The cause of the distress was familiar, so familiar it seemed impossible. Because I'd never expected to feel this again. The Estate’s magic felt just as it did when I cursed Arnaud. The curse had reawakened, but I wasn’t controlling it this time. 


I reached for him, frantically trying to think of the curse's counter. What had I done that day? I'd done so much planning, I'd been so careful...Would anything I did even work, with someone else controlling the curse?


He reached for me, confused. But then all the emotion funneled out of his face, as though he were a corpse, already chilled with lack of life.


He fell forward into my arms. I caught him but couldn't keep my balance. My knees buckled and I stepped on the hem of my skirt. The fabric tore with a harsh sound. “No...” Arnaud's voice was so soft, so small. It hurt to hear him like that, for all that this was no more than I'd done to him myself once. Why did I care?


He gasped, and the curse's nullifying poison streamed from within his magic out across all of Brokenstar.


I shook him. “Arnaud!”


By all the slaughtered gods, I didn't know what to do. How was this possible?


“Arnaud, stay with me! I can stop this!”


I'd never deserved his trust, but I'd had it for a long while. Slaughtered gods, let me hold it still. 


The sense of magic nearby alerted me to Emelia. She jogged toward us, with her siblings following at a distance. Her daggers were in her hands, and when she got closer her whole body jerked as the curse hit her magic. 


“Slaughtered gods...” she breathed.


The curse on Arnaud kept us from using our magic. From fighting back. 


I couldn't reply, distracted by trying to trace the curse's path. I couldn't see the intruders yet but I felt them nearing, slipping through the Estate's wall and running into the heart of my land. 


I would destroy them. 


I hated to let Arnaud go, but I couldn't work magic while holding him up. “Hold on to him!” I ordered Keldin as she neared, tipping my head to indicate Arnaud. Her face twisted but then her eyes landed on him and she stayed quiet, rushing to take him out of my arms. Damien joined her and the two of them shared Arnaud’s weight, maneuvering him with determination.


Emelia stood at my side, her blades bright in the noon sun overhead.


My own magic was almost nonexistent, battered by the curse returning. Fear boiled in my stomach and throat, telling me I'd lost. Everything was wasted. I'd lost.


“No,” I said. 


Emelia raised her brows but I didn't elaborate.


It would not end like this.


Arnaud started mumbling, wordless and hopeless. Anger seared through me then, burning out the fear. 


I closed my eyes, feeling for the part of my magic that was connected to Cora. I kept it concealed, so Arnaud would not see it when he called on Brokenstar's power. The influx was like breath after suffocating.


“Will you let me help?” Emelia asked, surprising me. I nodded, and then moved toward the citrus trees, placing my hands on the trunk of one. I breathed in the fruits' smell, fighting to keep myself from getting lost in how much stronger Cora’s power made me. I couldn't get distracted. 


I called on the bees, and they answered with a buzzing I felt as much as I heard. But still the curse hovered at the edges of everything, weakening me.


Whoever these people were, they'd managed to dredge up the remnants of Arnaud’s curse lingering within Brokenstar, and lay it on him again. It was poorly done compared to when I laid it, but it still disturbed the Holding and was more than enough to upend my usual strategies. I was now too closely tied to Brokenstar not to be affected.


An unfamiliar presence loomed at the edge of my magic. It was Emelia, her daggers crossed in front of her. Her crest on the pommels emitted light that quickly turned to flames, coursing down the blades' lengths. The flames poured off the daggers and hovered around Emelia like a cloak. 


She met my eyes, and I knew her flames would accompany my bees.


The bees flew around the side of the main house, ready for my bidding. They seemed unaffected by the flames. Yet I worried this still wasn’t enough. Not without Arnaud's power, and Brokenstar weakened by the resurrected curse. I wasn't powerful enough. 


I reached for Julie. No matter I couldn't see her, she was on my land. Through her it was so easy to reach the dead.


The bees in their flames soared away in the direction I ordered. 


My magic, and that which I stole, roared inside me, leaving behind a hunger as though I hadn't eaten in days. 


I threw every drop of power I could find at the thieves. I still couldn’t see them, and Brokenstar’s awareness was dulled by the curse, but they came closer—


I gasped, falling forward onto my knees.


The intruders' presence pulled away, off Brokenstar. I couldn’t tell if my magic had struck them. They were just gone. 


At the same time the curse suffocated, dispersing, and Brokenstar rejoiced as its power flowed properly again.


I'd done it.


But...


Everything was too quiet now, too untroubled after those moments of chaos. 


Arnaud was quiet, his head buried in Damien's shoulder as the other man stared at me in fear. I couldn't sense Arnaud's magic at all. 


“Thank you.”


Emelia nodded. “None of us benefit from this kind of attack.”


I would need to send the wights to remove whatever was left of the intruders. “My worry is that someone does.”


She took my meaning. 


I didn't think the ones breaching the Holding were the ones orchestrating this. Whoever was had managed to revive a rot magic curse, even if only partially, and could manipulate my Holding wights. But even if this was the work of another Holder, they should never have been able to reawaken the curse. 


The narrowness of my understanding was a detriment. All I'd ever had to teach me of Holdings were Mother's words, and her books when she was gone. I’d worked so hard for the knowledge I had, yet I still didn't know enough to know what I was missing. 


And now I was unprepared for an enemy who could turn my own curse against me. 


Emelia watched me, with something like respect in her gaze. 


“We will talk later,” I said. 


She nodded as if she understood.


Yet when I looked to Arnaud he'd detached from Emelia's siblings. He met my gaze, but before I could speak he staggered away from me, back into the house. 


I started after him, but then the bees returned. Their buzzing was thick with warning, and I realized what was still wrong. 


Something was missing. 


I should have gone after Arnaud. Instead I took off in the direction the bees had come from. Behind me, Emelia spoke, but I couldn't make out her words.


I fell. Magic streamed out of me as though I'd been deflated. 


I wanted to scream.


Maybe I did scream. 


Cora wasn't on Brokenstar anymore. 



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Twelve









 




Chapter Twelve




Cora


Before I reached Hester, a wail burst from Brokenstar's soil. I staggered, the Estate's pain and surprise washing over me like a cold, stinging wave. Brokenstar was panicking, battering against my body and mind as it begged me to help it. Hester had knotted me so tightly into her own magic, the soil thought me part of her. 


Suddenly, I understood its distress, growing nauseous in sympathy as my body tried to rid itself of what it thought was inside it. 


Arnaud's curse was back. 


One of the Estate’s Rulers was nullifying magic, and the land didn't know how to deal with this. It was an imperfect thing, lines of power flickering in and out like they weren't sure what they were supposed to do, but I couldn’t calm the Holding no matter how I tried. 


Knowing what this curse did to the land made me hate Hester even more. 


I wrenched back enough control over myself to get to the nearest window. Outside, Hester had Arnaud in her arms. 


I raced to the next window, and the next, and the next, until I saw three unfamiliar figures near the barrier. I went numb, not even Brokenstar's pain distracting me from them. “Julie!” I beckoned her over and she looked out at them, hissing. 


“What can you see?” I panted, bracing myself on the windowsill as I fought through the nausea. 


“They woke up the curse,” she said disbelievingly. 


I stared at those figures, their forms menacing though distance blurred their details.


I looked at Julie. “They’ve unbalanced Brokenstar. That means they’ve weakened Hester’s hold on me.”


That meant I might be able to get out. 


Julie understood immediately. “GO!”


I flew down the stairs toward the kitchen storerooms.


By all the slaughtered gods, I hoped I was right.


The cool, windowless space of the storerooms was empty, and I made an inarticulate sound of relief. The wights had recently collected a new batch of honey, and the jars were lined neatly along the shelves. I grabbed as many as fit into one of the small baskets stacked in the corner. 


All the while, Hester pulled on our power, my power, funneling it into Brokenstar. It hurt, but it didn't incapacitate me as much as usual. Somehow, the curse was affecting her too.


The far door of the storeroom led outside. The air rippled uncannily. I followed that strangeness until I saw the intruders, panic pushing me through my fatigue.


They saw me barreling toward them and their stances turned aggressive, hands raised as if they might all hold magic. I kept going. It was too late to worry they might use whatever magic they had against me. 


I spoke before they could decide it wasn't worth listening. “Please take me with you.”


They looked unimpressed. The oldest of the three, a tall woman with dark, curly hair, stepped in front of the other two and narrowed her eyes.


“I have honey for you,” I said.


That had more of an impact. The other two looked at the dark-haired woman like she was the leader, but she didn't look away from me. 


Hester would strike soon. 


“Why?” one of the younger ones asked, their freckled face suspicious.


“I need you to bring me through the barrier with you.” If they meant to steal, that meant they had a way to get out without the Holding marking them a threat. 


“She'll kill you.” The leader folded her arms, her eyes constantly flicking around her. 


Hester probably wouldn't kill me, but there was no time to explain. 


“Please take me with you.”


“Life on the Holding too easy for you?” the third one asked scornfully. He wore a small pendant with a design on it I couldn't place. Our eyes met, and I was struck with the simultaneous impulses to hold his gaze and look away in embarrassment.


“Alain!” The leader made a small gesture and the other two faced outwards, postures tense, and I realized they were supporting their magic between them. 


The leader leveled an expectant look at me. 


“I’m trapped here, but you’ve weakened her hold on me by waking up the curse. Please take me with you.” But even as I said it I felt pathetic. I'd come out of the main house, wearing fancy clothes, and now I complained I didn't want to be here. 


“No,” the leader said, in a voice used to being obeyed. “It's too dangerous.” She made to move away but I stepped in front of her, my heart beating faster. Even if I could get through the barrier and off Brokenstar, I'd never be able to get to the other Holdings on my own. 


“More dangerous than what you're already doing?” I countered. “More dangerous than her bees?”


Fearful recognition crossed her face. 


“You don't have any honey.” It was a gamble. I only knew of one other Holding producing honey within a moon's travel. “Please. Help me and the honey's yours.”


I didn't need them to respect me. I just needed them to get me away from Brokenstar. I wouldn't get another chance.


They looked at each other, but I couldn't guess what they thought.


The leader faced me. “You have to keep up. We won't wait for you.”


“Fine.”


Pain exploded in my chest as magic tore out of me. Hester. 


“She's angry,” I warned, fighting to stay upright. “We need to move!”


I pulled back the fabric so she could see inside the basket. She looked at me again, caught between disappointment and amazement, and with both hands yanked the basket out of my grip.


My face burned. I wasn't cut out for the world beyond where Hester ruled. I'd never learned to be. 


But then she said, “She'll come after you once we cross the barrier.”


My chest tightened again. She was right, and she knew it. 


The one with the pendant spoke up. “She depends on your magic, doesn’t she?” 


I nodded, desperate for this to make a difference. 


He looked at the leader. “That’ll weaken the Holder even more than the curse does.” 


The leader's gaze hardened. He quailed briefly, eyes darting to me. “At least for a short while.”


I shook at another wave of Hester's anger. The leader pursed her lips, noticing, then said, “The honey will have to be enough. Come on.”


They took off. A buzzing filled my head as I threw myself after them, not sure if I really heard the bees or only imagined them. 


The reawakened curse complicated Hester's magic, but couldn’t stop it entirely. I knew she'd hurt Julie again. But staying wouldn't change that. 


Hester's rage surged, so deeply within my bones it felt like my own. 


We wouldn't make it in time. She would strike, and I couldn't breathe, and—


There was an impact, like falling through ice into water, the barrier giving way only to plunge me into cold. My lungs seized. 


Air came back to me. I gasped, realizing I'd fallen, the side of my face on the cold grass. It started sleeting, the chill drops menacing. 


I sat up. Everything felt wrong. 


The others stared at me, wary. 


We were outside Brokenstar.


I waited to be dragged back inside, for Hester's magic to retrieve me. 


But it didn't happen.


I had escaped. 



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Thirteen









 




Chapter Thirteen




Julie


It's very easy to say you'll get revenge. It's even easier not to realize revenge is more complicated than you'd like it to be. 


I met Arnaud once before we cursed him.


It was perhaps a dozen days after Father left.


I’d had a fight with Hester. I don’t remember what about, but it was her fault. Maybe she’d taken my green scarf again, or maybe it was something else. We argued over a thousand things, and we’d only gotten worse since Mother died.


I was so sick of Hester and the way she charmed everyone into believing her act. I was sick of Cora trying to calm me down and get me to apologize. She was constantly searching for a middle ground that didn’t exist. 


One of my sisters could hide what she felt, and the other masked it all well enough no one thought to question her. Why was I the only one of us held hostage by my feelings?


So I left. I walked out of the house, startling some seabirds, and just kept walking. 


It was cold, and windy, and the air had that feeling it gets before it's going to rain. I walked and fumed and thought of all the biting things I could've said to Hester but didn't think of at the time. 


Until I realized I didn't know where I was. We weren't allowed to go beyond the village, but I'd gone in the opposite direction. For all the times I'd told myself I'd run away, I'd never mustered the courage for it. 


But that day I was determined to walk until I ended up somewhere no one knew who I was. I would start over and never have to look at Hester's stupid, beautiful face again. 


I found a slightly higher bit of ground and climbed up to get a better view. Distracted by my anger, I’d gone farther than ever before. The ground here was different from the sparse rockiness near our home. There was more vegetation, and it seemed healthier. 


I kept walking, as the plants became greener and more lush, and then I stopped. 


I didn’t mean to stop, but something kept me from moving. 


In front of me, just beyond where I could walk, there was a stone wall. I’d reached Brokenstar. 


It would have been strange, except then my magic woke up, sensing what was so close, like small lightnings running up and down my limbs.


The land that wouldn’t stop haunting my family.


And seated on the top of the wall, looking at me with probably as much undignified surprise as was on my face, was Arnaud.


I didn't know his name, then. I had no reason to recognize him, but it wasn't hard to guess who he was. His jacket was clasped with a brooch, bearing the same crest that had been on the bottles of honey. He looked only a year or two older than Hester, with a seemingly kind face. He was as handsome as Hester was beautiful. I didn’t trust him. 


He looked so bizarre, perched on top of the wall. He wore a fine gray shirt with stitching the same color as the small violet hoops in his ears, dark pants, and elegant gray shoes. But for all his expensive, perfectly tailored clothes, he looked out of place and scared. 


It was clear we'd both startled each other. Holding barriers were ensorcelled to prevent anyone the Holder didn't want reaching them, but I'd apparently gotten closer than I was meant to.


“What are you doing?” I asked, because I couldn't deal with the quiet staring any more. And the longer I stood there, the more I got the impression the Holding didn't want me around. The air seemed strange, like someone I couldn’t see was trying to get my attention but constantly moving out of my line of sight. 


“How did you get here?” He looked over my shoulder like he expected to see...what?


We were like two animals who'd thought they were being stalked by a huntswoman, only to realize the noise was no predator but something small and vulnerable like ourselves. 


“I walked.” I shifted, uncomfortable. I was so close to so many things grown in this soil, so many things that could wake up all the magic I knew I possessed.


I wondered if he could sense my magic, and what he thought of it. Arnaud pressed his hands against his temples, like he was trying to soothe himself out of spiraling worries he was all too familiar with. “I envy you,” he said. “You don't know how lucky you are to be outside these walls.”


I don't know how I did it, but I managed not to laugh at him. 


I twitched. I couldn’t shake the feeling that someone was trying to get my attention. For a moment, a thin channel stretched from me to beyond the wall and sound echoed faintly through it. 


I couldn't make out words, but the sound was pained. It skittered around Arnaud, coming straight to me. 


What was this? I got an impression of sadness, but then it vanished. 


“I never thought...” But he didn't finish his sentence. His face changed like he was listening, then he said something too soft for me to hear.


Help...


The word came from Brokenstar.


Arnaud looked back at me, and I could tell I was only one who'd heard it. 


He asked, “Who are you?”


I didn't answer, though it was, annoyingly, a struggle to resist the entreaty in his eyes. Telling him even my name felt like too much. He had so many advantages over me already. I didn't want to give him more. 


I shook my head, trying to get that sound back, but it was fading. Back into Brokenstar's soil.


I didn’t know what it was. If it was my magic, trying desperately to tell me something. If it was just the look on his face, the way he looked like he might fall off that wall and, more, like he wouldn't care if he did.


Something was wrong here. 


The Holding barriers were trying to push me away, but at the same time Brokenstar was letting me hear its pain. Pushing and pulling on me at once. I started feeling sick, an uncomfortable feeling in the back of my throat that didn't bode well for the contents of my stomach. 


Arnaud started saying something else but I backed away, turning to run the way I'd come. The soil turned sparse again under my feet, and the pressure of Brokenstar's barriers eased. 


My magic sulked, annoyed at leaving the Holding soil, only to quickly fade back into the nonexistence I was used to. 


I should've kept going. I should never have gone back to that house. It never occurred to me that so soon I would lose any chance I had of making my own choices. 


But I went back to my sisters, because I couldn't stop thinking about how little Brokenstar seemed to want its Holder.


And I thought my sisters and I could use that to our advantage. 



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Fourteen









 




Chapter Fourteen




Cora


Escape very quickly revealed itself to be more complicated than I'd imagined. 


I just needed to keep walking. The path leading away from Brokenstar was one I’d taken before, yet every footfall felt unfamiliar, every turn a trap waiting to catch me.


The woman leading the other two slowed our pace as Brokenstar grew small in the distance and night started falling. 


Her name, I was told curtly, was Anisa, and she seemed to have no trouble finding the path despite the dark. 


Just keep walking. As long as I placed one foot in front of the other, I was getting farther away from Hester.


Soon, I would be further away from my sisters than I had ever been before. I wanted to laugh but also I wanted to curl into a ball and cry, because none of this was right. 


It hadn't been right for far too long. 


Had I made a mistake? I'd thrown myself onto this path, and it might destroy me. Julie would suffer, and once again it would be my fault. 


Slaughtered gods, I was tired. It had been a long time since I'd done as much physical activity as I had that day. Hester, to keep up the fiction of my frailty, never required me to do much physically.


The others didn't comment on my flagging strength, but I knew they noticed it. 


Just keep going, I told myself. One more step. I'm getting away. 


I'm getting away only so I can come back.


I had to come back. 


After what felt like days but was only an hour or two, judging by the sunset’s progress, we stopped in the town near where my family used to live.


“We'll spend the night here,” Anisa said. “Keep moving in the morning.”


The other two, Alain and Kiriel, shared a look, though neither spoke. The two of them stayed close in a way suggesting familiarity, keeping their distance from me aside from the occasional glance. 


As we reached the center of town I thought of the house we used to live in, distant from the noise and movement swirling here. 


Was that house still perched on the shore, its loneliness resonating?


Did anyone live there now? What did they think of the scorch marks, and the bloodstains? Had it all been cleaned up, by someone who didn't care and didn't want to know? Maybe it only added to our family's reputation.


Anisa led us to a packed inn, smelling of meat and marrow and spices. I'd walked past on my way to the market, but never been inside before. The swing of a door at the back gave a glimpse of loudly bubbling pots of soup stirred by aproned staff. I kept my head down. Though I’d never been in this place before, I was afraid someone might remember the pathetic girl who’d cleaned their house, one of the disgraced sorceress’s daughters.


At the same time, my mouth watered. 


I was hungry. Truly hungry, in a way I hadn't been since Hester brought me to Brokenstar. 


The food here wouldn't make me a captive. The realization gave me new energy, and I was compelled to look around the low-lit space, taking in every sight for the sake of its newness. 


And no one looked at me. No one spoke of my loss, or praised my sister. It was enough to make me forget how tired I was, until Anisa gestured to an empty table and I joined the others in slumping into the seats. I wasn’t the only tired one.


“How long do we have before your sister comes after us?” Anisa asked me. She tapped her fingers on the table, as if already impatient. 


“As soon as she’s able.” I remembered the sick, slimy feeling of the rot magic curse reawakening. “But what you did hit her hard. That will buy us some time, but I wouldn’t push it.” Being laid low by the curse would only make Hester angrier when she was back on her feet. 


Kiriel was studying me. “How do we know you won’t lead her to us?”


I swallowed uncomfortably as I considered their question. Hester’s hold on me had been weakened enough I could escape. I didn’t know how long I had until she and her hold on me strengthened, or if distance from Brokenstar would work in my favor. “I gave you honey, didn’t I? I have no interest in her punishing you. I don’t know if she can track me, but the farther away we get, the better.” I hoped. 


“What did she do to you?” Alain asked, carefully.


“Enough that I really appreciate you getting me out of there.”


Alain nodded, conceding the point. 


Anisa’s eyes lit as she surveyed the room, apparently ignoring the rest of us. She stood and started wading between the tables until she reached the bar and retrieved a glass. She drifted toward a table where two people sat with their heads bent comfortably toward one another, a thick ledger open in front of them. Anisa paused beside them, mouth moving in words I couldn't hear. The two strangers remained seated but their expressions quickly grew welcoming, and one gestured for Anisa to sit with them. 


A harried-looking woman with strong arms brought us soup. She ladled out full bowls for each of us, and one for Anisa, then was off to other customers before we could even thank her. 


It was glorious soup. The broth was thick and fatty with onions and eggs and pork, spicy with peppers and full of garlic. I nearly fell off my chair at the first spoonful.


Even better, there was no magic in this food. None of it was Holding product. 


It didn't do anything to my magic. It was just food, nourishing without entrapping me. Alain looked at me like he worried I would fall over and I realized I was staring at the soup. I didn't meet his eyes, just attacked my meal with more vigor than I'd eaten anything in moons.


“Do they starve you on Brokenstar?” Alain asked. He was broad shouldered, with golden skin. Pale blue tattoos circled both his wrists. Kiriel, scrutinizing me from my other side, was built more softly, with pale freckled skin and green eyes, though they had easily kept up with the other two. 


“I'm just hungry.” His curiosity made me uncomfortable. I didn't want to talk about Brokenstar, or Hester. What I really wanted was another bowl of soup, but I didn't want to draw attention to myself by asking. 


Anisa returned, looking pleased, and began eating her soup. We watched her, openly curious. She noticed, raised her eyebrows, then made us wait for her to have several more spoonfuls. 


“Those two,” she tilted her head to the people she'd spoken with, already reabsorbed in their work, “are Holding merchants. They're heading to Treelight tomorrow, and are willing to bring us with them.” She looked at me pointedly. “That far enough from Brokenstar for you?” Her voice indicated she didn't actually care.


I took a breath, then lowered my hands to where they couldn't see them under the table and knotted my fingers together, forcing down the exhilarated fear boiling up in me. 


A pear from Treelight. The first part of the spell.


I coughed again and smiled wanly to indicate I was all right. “Treelight is fine.” My fingers threatened to break against each other. I couldn't believe it. 


Maybe, maybe, I could do this. 


Alain and Kiriel looked to Anisa, and when she gave a small nod that decided it.


Anisa tossed back the rest of her drink, then hoisted the glass questioningly. “Rest of you want?”


“Yes!” Alain and Kiriel chimed in unison, less tired after food. 


“None for you?” Anisa asked. 


“Uh,” I blushed, “yes please.” I hadn't realized the invitation extended to me. She rolled her eyes but then headed back to the bar.


“So.” Alain leaned slightly closer to me, though when I flinched he pulled back immediately. “Who set the curse?”


“Alain,” Kiriel hissed. 


“What?” He turned back to me, all innocence. “My guess is the Rulers know but they’re keeping it quiet so the caster doesn’t bolt.”


“What does it matter?” Kiriel asked. “We knew how to wake it.”


“Don’t pretend you don’t want to know who’s doing this mysterious rot magic.”


Before I could figure out how to react to this surprising turn of the conversation, Anisa returned with drinks and I thankfully became less interesting.


“Say we go with these merchants,” Kiriel asked. “What's the catch?” They had their elbows on the table, chin on their folded hands, but underneath their bowl still had a few spoonfuls of soup in it. I resisted the urge to grab it and finish it. Didn't they realize what a privilege it was to eat food that was nothing but food? 


I thought of the Brokenstar honey Anisa had snatched from me, now tucked in her small pack, the basket discarded at some point along the way. That honey would fetch a good price, though I suspected she didn't care to sell it. 


Anisa smirked, taking a sip of the fresh drink she'd gotten for herself. “They need watchful eyes and help unloading. Seems there's been some miscreants looking to free Holding products from their proper homes lately.”


I swallowed. “How soon will we be there?”


“Cool down,” Anisa chided. “We leave in the morning. Should reach Treelight by nightfall.”


I nodded. “Thank you.” I stayed quiet as we finished our drinks. I was too distracted by the fact I’d left Brokenstar to listen to much of what they said, but every so often I’d notice one of them glance at me, as if reluctant to finish a sentence with me there. 


The inn had a spare room we all shared that night. Anisa took the small bed, because Kiriel and Alain acted as though she deserved it and I wasn't going to argue. I curled up in the corner with a spare blanket under my head. 


I couldn't sleep. I just waited, hoping we'd get to Treelight fast enough. 


Faster than Hester could find me. 


#




WE MET THE MERCHANTS outside the inn, before dawn, as they'd requested. They had the faces of people who regularly didn't get enough sleep, and both held sturdy mugs, courtesy of the inn, brimming with tea strong enough the scent itself was like a slap to the face. 


They introduced themselves as if it were an unfortunate necessity. Jin and Eot were married to each other, and bore rings with the blossom-and-lightning crest of licensed Holding merchants.


Their wagon was pulled by two bay horses who snorted as if annoyed at being awake so early. Eot spoke softly to each of them, his hand on their necks, before climbing onto the front of the wagon. We were to ride in back.


“There are blankets in the corner,” Jin said as he opened the door to the back. I followed the others in and immediately understood why he'd said it. 


The inside was cold and lined with boxes, each one labeled with the product it carried and the Holding of origin. Casks of winter were the only way to transport Holding products for any significant distance, but they came with a price. 


I took a blanket from a small heap in the corner, thankful they had warming spells woven into them, and huddled against the wall. 


Anisa took the first shift of riding with the merchants, for that protection we supposedly provided. As we pulled me away from the inn I suddenly wanted to throw myself out and run back to Brokenstar. Hester would let me come back and I wouldn’t have to face this strange world I’d never learned to navigate. If I chose her, I wouldn’t have to choose anything again. 


No. I forced myself to look at the boxes of products, these commodities the Holdings created. If I went back to Hester I was no different than a box of Archstem butter.


As the wagon took me farther away than I'd ever gone, I hoped Julie was all right. 



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Fifteen









 




Chapter Fifteen




Hester


“What are you doing?” I squinted in the nearly noon sun as I left the house, cursing how late I’d slept. 


Emelia glanced over her shoulder toward me, then looked back to her work. Damien studied the grass around his feet, while Keldin looked smug. The three of them stood on the lawn in front of the main house with suitcases piled beside them. 


Emelia held daggers in both hands, crafting the conveyance taking shape on the lawn in front of her. Curving pieces of metal, lined with flames, were forming the shape of a carriage and a pair of horses. Yet the flames stayed within the metal, not touching the grass, and I felt no warmth from them. 


“Are you recovered from yesterday’s tribulations?” Keldin asked. Her voice made it clear how little she thought of me. 


I had collapsed after realizing Cora was gone. When I eventually woke, it was to find someone had carried me into my room. A peek through the connecting door into Arnaud’s room found him still sleeping. I should have woken him, but I couldn’t forget how he’d run from me, so I left him to sleep. But now, before finding Cora, I needed to help Brokenstar recover. 


I smiled tightly. “The ruling of a Holding can take a particular toll, as you know.” I pretended to stop myself. “Oh, but you don’t.”


Her expression made it clear I’d made an enemy, but I had trouble caring. “Holder Windshriek”—I raised my voice—“what are you doing?” 


She made me wait until she finished the carriage. “Get inside,” she said to her siblings. Damien looked apologetically at me, then ducked his head and started moving suitcases inside the carriage. 


Emelia faced me. “We are leaving.”


“You can’t leave,” I said before I could stop myself, then forced composure back over my apprehension. “You would only have the make the journey back for the wedding in a few days.”


“I don’t appreciate you wasting my time.” She had finished constructing the carriage but the daggers were still in her hands, remnants of magic dancing along them like the last bits of a fire. “News of your sister’s disappearance will get out, and any who notice me lingering here will whisper about the trust I appear to place in you.”


Any respect I’d gained from her was gone. She moved her knives again, as if perfecting part of the spell. The metal-flame horses pawed the ground, as if they shared the anxiety coursing through me. 


“I assure you,” I said, forcing my voice to stay steady, “I will locate my sister in time for the wedding.” I wouldn’t get another chance to ally with Windshriek, or with anyone, if Cora made me look a fool. 


Emelia shook her head. “Allying with someone weak is the act of a fool.” Her eyes were as sharp as her blades as she leaned closer to me. “Tell whoever you like about the honey I bought when the curse made your product worthless. It will be nothing next to the honey you lost yesterday.”


My breath caught. How much did the thieves take? How did Emelia know this? 


She turned back toward the carriage but I threw myself in front of her, smiling as confidently as I knew how. I’d charmed plenty of people and I could charm her too. “How fortunate that none of us are fools.” Brokenstar’s distress sloshed through me like nausea but I planted my feet, refusing to budge. I couldn’t look weak in front of her. “Imagine the alliance we could form,” I said. “There are a half dozen Holdings between Brokenstar and Windshriek. None would dare strike against either of us, knowing the other rested so close.” I looked out onto Brokenstar, hoping Emelia couldn’t sense the land’s distress. “These thieves can get through an Estate’s wards. I’m willing to bet a Holder taught them that. And I’m not their first victim. How long before they notice Windshriek?”


She raised her eyebrows. “You think a Holding is behind these thieves?”


“They’ve now breached at least two different Holdings.” I slid my hands behind my back, clasping them together to keep myself from falling into Brokenstar’s pain. I wanted to help but I couldn’t spare any attention from Emelia. “And they woke Arnaud’s curse. There’s either a Holder behind this or there’s a rot magic sorceress.” I didn’t add that those might be one and the same, but I saw Emelia register it. 


I pinched myself harder as the soil’s unsteadiness crested, yet suddenly the pain receded. A new sensation coursed through the land, and through me, like a warm, soft blanket after being out in the cold. Arnaud was aiding Brokenstar. 


“Are you coming?” Keldin’s voice came from inside the carriage. A strange, cold smell came off the magical construct. My back was to it but the sunlight it reflected spilled around me on all sides.


“In a moment.” Emelia didn’t look away from me.


I wouldn’t be able to stop her getting to the carriage, neither physically nor magically, and I was running out of chances. 


“Someone is striking at Holdings. This is how wars start. And when that happens we’re all going to need allies.” I spread my hands out in front of me, as if imploring her to understand. “I am going to find my sister, and I am going to bring her back in time to marry your brother.” I couldn’t lose the chance to access Windshriek’s power through Cora. I’d be unstoppable, no matter who thought to take Brokenstar from me, and by the time Emelia realized it would be too late. “Do you really want to be my enemy?”


She considered me, and I tried not to look at the daggers still in her hands. She clicked the blades lightly against one another, and the carriage evaporated, wisps of metal and flame disappearing as though they were no more than wind. 


“Em, what?!” Keldin said as she and Damien fell a short ways to the ground, their baggage falling around them. 


“We’re staying,” Emelia said, voice soft but firm. 


Keldin’s face turned scornful. “Why are you so afraid of her?”


Damien began righting the luggage and bringing it back inside, though not without a wistful look for where the carriage had been. 


“I hope,” Emilia said, “your reign here does not end in the manner of your grandmother’s.”


I smiled again. “I don’t make promises I can’t fulfill.”


#




AFTER JULIE TOLD US of her meeting with its Holder, the question of Brokenstar busied my sisters and I for days. 


“Even if the Holding was up for grabs,” Julie said slowly, after yet another retelling of everything she'd seen and heard and sensed, “none of us would be allowed to challenge for it.”


I struggled to stifle my jealousy so she wouldn't gloat. She’d been to Brokenstar! 


Julie didn't sound defeated. More like she was turning the problem around to look at it from a different angle. 


This was the obstacle we kept hitting. Whatever the truth was about the Holder of Brokenstar, it didn't change who we were. 


“I don't know how you expect us to get him out of Brokenstar in the first place.” Cora, as usual, was the source of reason tying down our trio. “Even if we could get in somehow, it wouldn't end well for us.” She rubbed her temples, feeling the weariness we all did from having this conversation so many times. “He wouldn't have Brokenstar to begin with if he wasn't strong enough to win the challenge for it.”


“Something's wrong on that Holding!” Julie insisted, not for the first time. “And he knows it, even if he doesn't know what it is. The Holding...” she shook her head. “I don't think it wants him there.” 


She'd met the Holder of Brokenstar. She'd nearly been on the Holding! I hated her for that, and for having knowledge I couldn't have. Wonderful, talented Julie just stumbled into everything she needed. 


“Whether or not it wants him there”—even steady Cora was starting to sound aggravated—“he's at Brokenstar. What in the names of all the slaughtered gods are we supposed to do to get him off the Holding, assuming we have any way of holding onto it afterwards, which we don't?!”


Oh. 


I smiled, as a plan settled neatly in my mind. “We take his magic away.”


Cora and Julie stared at me, as I'd once seen them stare at Mother. 


I continued, “Think how grateful he would be if we saved him from a nullification curse?”


Julie met my eyes, and I saw her understand. 


“Nullification curses are just stories,” Cora said. “Besides, that’s rot magic.” The stress she put on “rot magic” was meant to remind me it was outlawed. I didn't much care.


I said, “You're happy to believe in stories when they're about us. Three sisters, to save the family's glory?”


“Mother's dead.” Flat, cold. “Everything she told us—”


“—was true. She just never had the opportunity to act on it.” I waited for Cora to challenge me. She knew I'd spent far more time with Mother in this room, and after her death with Mother's books, than she ever had. 


Finally, she said, “How would we do that?”


I’d kept studying Mother’s books after she died, delving into everything they offered. Including some spells I quickly realized were beyond the sort of sorcery Holding Rulers deemed proper. 


I opened to the right page. “There's a way to make someone antithetical to magic,” I spoke the words only after considering them carefully. “It would keep him from working magic, and from tending Brokenstar properly. And we would be the only ones who could undo it.”


The spell was a recipe of Holding products. The steps were few, but precise. I'd read them so many times I could recite them without looking at the page. 


“And give him his Holding back,” Cora murmured, her face inscrutable though I sensed her leaning in the direction I wanted.


“What about the other Rulers?” Julie asked, her arms folded as she studied the book like she thought it might lunge at her. “They'll just challenge him for Brokenstar and we'll be right where we are now.”


I smiled, the delight I'd found at finding the spell the first time reviving as I shared it with my sisters. “They won't be able to work magic on the Holding, not after we've cursed him. He's connected to Brokenstar, so the nullification will extend throughout.” I didn't add anything about how this was all theoretical, pieced together from what I could find in Mother's books. I knew what was best for us, and that was all my sisters needed to know. 


Cora shook her head. “This is impossible.” Her fingers hung over the book like she wanted to touch it, but then she backed away from my suggestion. “Even if this could work, all of these ingredients need to be Holding products. We can't afford that.” 


I forced myself to stay calm. This would work. This had to work. 


“It would be expensive.” Julie frowned. “Even if we could find everything.” 


“We can!” Oh, why wouldn’t my sisters just listen to me?!


“Not even you’re charming enough to get all of this for free before some of it starts spoiling.” Cora retorted. She was right. Some of the ingredients were delicate, and buying winter casks to preserve them would only multiply our costs.


But I allowed myself a moment of smugness. “I don't have to be.” I went into the room’s small closet, and pried up a floorboard near the back. I retrieved the small, green bag underneath, and dropped it on the table in front of my sisters. It smelled musty, and dust floated off it into their faces. 


“Hester.” Cora stared at the fabric, which strained with the clinking coins inside it. “What did you do?”


“I've been careful.” A coin or two held back from every trip to the market was normally doable, if I could haggle and charm well enough. I'd known for a long while I might need extra funds to achieve my goals. 


Julie rolled her eyes but I ignored her. I needed Cora with us again. She was always the one to decide the arguments. 


Cora was studying the book, giving me no clue as to what she was thinking.


“This spell,” she said finally, “is meant to be performed by one person.”


“Yes,” I agreed. Cora had more magic than me, though she didn't have half my ambition, yet she wouldn't agree to any plan without knowing all the details. 


I said, “I believe we can fuse our magic together to make us as strong as three sorceresses.”


“But it's rot magic,” Cora repeated, her voice edged. “That’s way too dangerous.” 


I nodded. “I know. But I've been studying this and I know what we need to do.” I had studied it. I thought I could pull this off without harming any of us.


I knew I could pull it off without any harm to myself. 


Cora studied the book for another few moments. Julie moved to read over her shoulder, stationing herself protectively between Cora and I.


“When you were studying this,” Cora asked finally, “did you notice that our magics would have to be focused within one of us?” Her eyes refused to let me sneak away from answering. “And that the person we focused them in would be the only one with control, and the only one who could redistribute the power afterwards?”


Cora was often quiet. She was never unobservant.


“More importantly”—Julie sounded annoyed, though I couldn't which one of us was at fault—“none of this is any good without the Ruler's blood.” 


“That's why we need you to go back to Brokenstar.” I forced the words out. “You're the only one strong enough to get close.”


“How do you know that?” Cora asked.


“Because I’ve already tried,” I admitted. “I’ve tried getting to Brokenstar myself, and the barrier won’t even let me get close enough to see the wall.” I seethed as I watched my sisters take this in, and vowed to myself I would never let them be stronger than me again. 


Julie huffed. “But if I somehow manage get his blood then I can't just show up again and undo his curse.”


This was exactly the moment I'd been hoping for. “Then let me work the spell. I've studied it so much, and with your help I know I can make it work.” I knew how to be patient, and I knew how to pay attention.


As Mother had gotten closer to the end of her life, she'd pulled away from anything but thoughts of what she'd lost. But I'd been willing to wait for those moments when she was well enough to teach me, and in one of those moments she'd shown me her books, and taught me to read what they contained. 


She and I had been careful only to do so when Father wasn’t home. And I was careful never to let Mother know I heard the disappointment she tried to hide, that I was the daughter who listened.


But I refused to not be proud of everything I'd learned, and everything I was prepared to do.


“You're not better than us,” Julie said. “You can't just treat us like tools.”


Old jealousies hung between us like swarming insects. 


“I promise I can do this. And I'll give you both your magic back as soon as the spell's done.”


I could force them to help me if I needed to. It wouldn't be too difficult. But they didn't need to know that.


I said, “This is for all of us.”


She narrowed her eyes, but then nodded grudgingly. “Fine.” A smirk. “If Cora agrees.” 


“Cora?” 


She bit her lip, and said, “Promise you’ll give our magic back afterwards.”


“I promise you both.” It was grimly funny to me that they didn’t value their power so highly until they were confronted with the loss of it.


“All right,” Cora said, reluctantly. 


I grinned, though I kept most of my exhilaration to myself. There would be time for that later. 


“Julie,” I said, “you’ll need a dagger.”


We schemed in harmony the rest of the day. My sisters trusted my promise. Brokenstar was nearly mine.



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Sixteen









 




Chapter Sixteen




Julie


Hester was furious, Cora was gone, and I badly needed a plan. 


I often remained in Cora's room, as I ran little chance of encountering anyone else there. Wherever Cora was, Hester hadn't found her yet. Cora might still have a chance. 


But even if she got her magic back, I would still be a ghost. Still just a few steps away from being even more trapped than I already was. 


I thought of the world of the dead, and the pain I'd heard in their voices, and I thought of songs and prophecies until there was nothing else. 


I thought of our grandmother, once bound to Brokenstar's soil.


Suddenly the dead responded, tossing and tumbling me within their world. I imagined myself growing solid and rooting into that space, tendrils of myself clinging to the not-air so I couldn't be thrown out of it. I managed to anchor myself, though there was nothing for me to touch. 


The dead were different, as if I’d surprised them. 


Well, they'd have to deal with that. 


you can't help us.


tell me, said the sorceress...


you'll be one of us soon.


Panic threatened to subsume me. 


No.


I thought of lightning, striking the panic and setting it aflame. I forced it to burn until it disintegrated and sloughed off me. 


“The first time I was here,” I said, hoping they’d listen, “you mentioned my grandmother, Aurelie. You said I would need a power like she had.”


The dead sang, their harmonies portentous like they foresaw my doom.


“Can you show me what she did, please?” I didn’t know why they connected me to her, but it was the only lead I had.


She made bargains, they hissed, but she refused to help us.


“Please,” I begged. Slaughtered gods, it was a gamble, but I had to try. Otherwise this place would be my future, forever. “I need to destroy Hester,” I whispered. It was the only way to take back what she’d stolen. “And I need to be alive again.” 


My words precipitated a pause in the singing. The empty air was deafeningly quiet. All at once, everything went bright and then decayed into thin swirls, views I couldn't hope to comprehend spinning all around me, like I'd been split apart and forced into a prism whose every facet looked out onto something different. 


Then the world stilled, and from too many eyes at once I saw Brokenstar.


A Brokenstar where the house’s tallest tower was not yet damaged. I was flung through the walls of the house, into a room like a honeycomb I'd never seen before. Magic lay over everything, in precise patterns unlike the magic I’d seen before. In the center of the room was a dais, with a dagger and a chalice atop it. 


In front of it stood a woman, perhaps ten years older than I was when I died. Her auburn hair spiraled around her face, threaded with gold ribbons, and her skin shone in the light coming through the high windows. 


I'd never seen our grandmother Aurelie before. She hadn’t lived long after losing Brokenstar. But this woman’s face looked so much like Mother, except for the colors of her eyes. This was Aurelie, as she claimed Brokenstar for her own. She'd won the Holding some years before our mother was born, so this had to be at least fifty years ago. 


But why was I seeing it?


The scene blurred and then was replaced with Aurelie standing in another part of the house I didn't recognize, though she looked through a window whose view suggested she was in one of the towers. Her shoulder were pulled back and her expression triumphant, surveying the land she'd won for herself. 


It was a look I'd seen many times before, on Hester. 


Then her hands on the windowpane tightened, and she turned, slowly.


There was no one else there, but Aurelie said “Haunt me all you like. It won't change who won the challenge.”


The air in front of her moved, as though a Holding wight approached, but then it resolved into the translucent figure of a woman.


A ghost, like myself.


Her face was heart-shaped, and in life she'd been significantly shorter than Aurelie. The ghost said “You won with rot magic.” The anger in her words was quiet, contained, in a way I never managed. I suddenly wanted to hide, fearful she'd turn on me.


Yet her attention was fixed on my grandmother.


“Dear Faria,” Aurelia's words were rich with satisfaction and I snarled instinctively. I'd heard the same tone from Hester too many times. “You miss the point. I won! Brokenstar is mine and you're the disgrace who couldn't even live through the challenge.” She pursed her lips in mock concern. “You're welcome to tell anyone you like. The blood I took from you is long gone.”


I looked closer, trying to see despite the unnatural shadows cast on everything in the past. Faria’s ghost wasn’t trapped, as mine was on Brokenstar. She didn’t have to be there. 


“I'm not the only one with blood,” Faria whispered.


Then I saw it. 


A thin strand of magic, twined around Faria's chest, where her heart was when she lived. It reached toward Aurelie, whose eyes suddenly froze.


There was a wrongness to the magic, like it was infected, but I couldn't look away. 


Faria pulled on that strand, and as she did it thickened, growing bright as if she'd set it aflame. 


Aurelie set her mouth in determination, power sparking within her. 


Faria threw herself forward, spinning wildly as the magic she'd drawn from Aurelie opened a chasm in my grandmother's chest. 


I saw her heart beat, once, and then the ghost poured through the magic and into Aurelie.


Faria disappeared, ghostly outlines winking away, and the hole in Aurelia's chest closed effortlessly. 


Aurelie staggered, her face wild, and fell forward. She caught herself on the windowsill, and then slowly turned around herself as if she expected another attack.


Her stance straightened, and the lines of panic in her face smoothed. 


She looked as confident and beautiful as Hester on her best day. Yet under my grandmother's face I could see who she really was, now. 


Faria, whoever she was, defeated and killed by my grandmother in the challenge for Brokenstar, took over Aurelia's body. 


And, I thought with sharp, overdue glee, I would do the same to Hester. 


The past disappeared and I was back with the ghosts. They screamed and hissed at me, lines of song and portents and more than I couldn’t parse. My own thoughts were too loud. 


From the moment she gained Brokenstar, our grandmother was not herself. She was this Faria, willing to work whatever magic she needed to have the body that would get her what she wanted. 


And more, I'd seen how she did it. 


“Tell me how to take another body for my own,” I asked, or commanded, or begged, unable to modulate my tone of voice.


...Cora...


Her name intruded like a clap of thunder. 


you need the power of a god.


The world went impossibly still. 


Everything fixed on those words, and I understood the jeers in the ghosts’ voices. 


Faria took Aurelia's body from her just as our grandmother ascended to Rulership of Brokenstar, rife with the power of the god slain there. For all that power gave her, a transformation forged by the memory of those dead gods, it also left her with a vulnerability.


When Cora returned to Brokenstar, if she returned...


The ritual would give her the power of three Holdings. Three gods.


The body I took had to be Cora's.


#




I KNEW WHICH DAGGER it would be before Hester brought it to me. The same small blade that had sat on the table with Mother's books, that day she tried to teach me.


Father would not have wanted us to do this.


I left the house before I could change my mind.


I left along the same path I’d taken the first day I reached Brokenstar. Soon, though, I realized I was no closer to Brokenstar than I was when I began.


The Holding did not want me to reach it. The last time I found it, I'd been so angry that I hadn't noticed the pulsing sensation urging me away from it.


I stopped, trying to quiet the voices in my mind which yelled at me as loudly as I often yelled at Hester. The sea soughed complacently in the distance as I looked toward the outlines of Brokenstar.


I reached back in my memories for the feel of that border, and the way it emanated from within the Holding, farther away than I could reach. I was furious that any of this was even necessary to begin with, and even angrier knowing that even after I did what I set out to do, it would be Hester who worked the spell, who would control my magic and Cora's. 


I wanted to work the spell, but I wanted Brokenstar more. If that meant letting Hester think she was in charge for a while, so be it. But I didn't have to like it. 


I let my fury move my feet forward, keeping a tight grip on the small dagger in my pocket. I'd wrapped a small piece of fabric around the blade to keep it from cutting through the lining of my pocket. Now it bounced around my left hip, each small touch a reminder.


Soon the sparse ground ceded to green, tipped with early spring frost. The smell of growing things overwhelmed me. My stomach growled at the scent of something spicy like basil, and I saw the green-tinged stones of Brokenstar.


A sort of rippling sensation came up from the ground, like the soil wanted to push me away. I focused on how frustrated I was. How much I wanted the Holding. 


It helped. 


The wall stared back at me, like it thought it could cow me. There was more to it than simple stone.


Slightly to my left, a patch of wall darkened, as if something had been spilled on it. I stepped backward, not sure how I would contend with whatever emerged.


Hester would never let me hear the end of it if I failed at this.


The darkness reshaped into a human form, stepping out of the wall toward me. Arnaud.


His eyes widened. “I thought it was you. The Holding...sensed you.”


I nodded. Appearing to agree with him seem practical at the moment.


He wore a blue shirt with the sleeves cuffed unevenly above his elbows, wrinkles of cloth cutting in half its embroidered bees. He looked like the hero in one of the sorcerer romances they sold in the market, the ones I always wanted to look at for longer but couldn't because the shopkeeper would start making that harumph noise meaning they knew I didn't have the coin to purchase one.


He also looked uncomfortable, as if he hadn't figured out what to say beyond that first statement. The ground surged against my feet again as I stared at Arnaud.


Our stalemate couldn't be permanent. Did he have any idea Brokenstar responded to me? Even as I wondered this, I realized I was compelled to move closer to him, to smooth the fabric of his shirt so the pattern of bees was clearly visible.


“I hoped you would come back,” he said, seeming both hopeful and embarrassed. 


There were shadows under his eyes, as if he hadn't slept much.


“Why?” I asked, before I could stop myself. I actually wanted to know. 


He looked at his feet. “I know you’re a sorceress.” He bit his lip, and then abruptly stopped as though it were a habit he knew he should break. He met my eyes. “Being here can be very lonely. There aren't many who choose to come here unless they want something from me.” 


“I'm sorry,” I said. “Sometimes...” Slaughtered gods, what was I doing? “Sometimes I’m lonely too.” I looked at my feet. “Things with my family aren't easy.”


“My family’s happier without me around,” he confessed.


“But you’re a Holder!” I looked up at him, unable to hide my surprise. 


He folded his arms. “My family always finds a way to be disappointed in me.” He looked at me questioningly. “Are you the only sorceress in your family?”


I shook my head. “No.” Our eyes met, and for a moment I wanted nothing more than to keep talking to him.


Stop it! I bit the inside of my lip, hard enough a small patch welled up in aggravation.


I took three considered steps closer, swallowing against the unsteady feeling that came from the Holding pushing against me. “How long have you been Holder here?”


“Only a few months,” he said, as though expecting me to argue.


He'd won the challenge less than a moon after Brokenstar's previous Holder, Eleius, died. I already knew that. No Holding stayed uncontrolled for long once its Holder died. There were always sorcerers clamoring to prove themselves and win a Holding. Some didn't even wait for death, issuing a challenge before a Holder died, though that was far rarer. 


I took one more step towards him. My hands were still in my pockets and I hoped he couldn't see the way my left hand curled around the knife.


“Some days I don't think Brokenstar wants me here.” He shook his head, then laughed weakly. “I shouldn't tell you that.”


I shrugged. “Who would I tell?”


“I don't know.” A smile briefly creased his lips. “Who are you?” He asked, as he had the last time. He looked at me in a way I'd never been looked at before. It was like he wanted to trust me but didn't know if he could.


“Is it easier,” I asked, “when you're outside the Holding, like you are now?” I took another step toward him. He didn't seem to notice, but he looked like he was thinking about my question.


“It's the first time I've left since I got here,” he said slowly. “There's always so much to do.” He looked back at the wall. “It’s so different out here.” A small smile reshaped his face.


For an instant I wanted to warn him. Tell them everything we planned, tell them to get back inside his Holding and build up his defenses and hide from the sisters with rot magic on their minds.


Instead, I said, “Maybe Brokenstar just doesn't know what it's missing.” Then I took the final step to bring me close to him. He was slightly shorter than I was. With my right hand I lightly touched his jaw to tilt his face toward mine, and then I kissed him.


With my left hand I slipped the dagger out of the fabric and scraped it against the outside of his wrist. His lips were cold, but after a startled moment he kissed me back. One of his teeth scraped against the raw spot where I’d bitten my lip.


Then he pulled away, exclaiming softly as he brought his wrist between us, staring at it. A quick glance at the dagger showed me red on the blade and I shoved it back into my pocket as I turned to run away.


“Wait!” he called out before I took a dozen steps. I kept moving, swallowing past the way my throat seemed determined to keep me from getting any air.


I turned my head as I ran. He looked confused, and I bolted away before I could see him look betrayed.



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Seventeen









 




Chapter Seventeen




Hester


When Julie returned from Brokenstar, she dropped the dagger on the table in front of me but didn't say anything, stomping away. I didn't bother asking her what was wrong. 


I unwrapped the fabric and saw the blood clinging to the blade. None of it was on the fabric. My suspicions about Mother's dagger appeared to be correct.


Throughout the day I'd heard the village clock chime but I never cared to note the time. Only when the setting sun robbed me of the warmth coming through the windows did I realize how late it was. I'd worked my way through the recipe over and over and over. How I would gather all of our powers together, and how I would cast the spell. Turning those pages had always been like watching plates of delicacies carried past, knowing I would never be allowed to taste any of them. Until now.


I placed the book on the kitchen table, with a plate resting gently against the top of the spine to hold it open. I moved the table against the wall opposite the stove, so nothing would spatter or drip on it. I couldn't lose the words it contained.


Cora returned from the markets, and I was pleased to see she followed my instructions exactly, getting everything we needed.


I took down the largest pan in our kitchen, old and battered and not used for some time. Julie joined us in the kitchen, though she still sulked.


We began with the butter. It was from Archstem, a Holding west of us known for its dairy. Under the brown wrapper the butter was bright yellow, and melted smoothly as the smell of fat filled the kitchen. My mouth watered as it sizzled, and I vowed I would make this work.


Once the butter was warm I added cracked pepper and cumin. I crushed bulbs of garlic and shallots and sliced up a head of fennel, scenting my hands with anise. The pale pieces sang a scalding song in the oil, turning translucent as they gave up their flavors to the good of the dish. I stirred, and watched, willing the dish into flavor and power. The spell would only achieve its full magical potential once all the ingredients were combined.


I'd asked Julie to chop vegetables and she presented me with a pile of ragged, hastily chopped pieces, but I didn't comment. I added them, and they crackled as the bitter yet sweet smells of the peppers and squash and carrots joined the butter's richness. I stirred them until they softened, extinguishing the flame only just as they began charring.


Once the dish cooled slightly I tossed in vinegar and another twist of pepper. The kitchen smelled amazing. We'd closed the windows so none of the magic might be lost to the night’s breeze. 


The main part of the spell was nearly complete, but the recipe also called for a dessert, replete with yet more magic.


Dessert was meant to be a peach, sliced into quarters and drizzled with honey.


I reached into Cora’s market bag, but my hand returned empty.


“Where's the honey?” I snapped. If we were missing anything...By then the sun was long gone. “It's almost midnight!” If we couldn't work the spell at the proper time we'd have to start all over on another day.


“Hold on.” Cora rolled her eyes, unusually demonstrative for her. I wasn’t the only one with anticipating racing through my veins. “It's here.” She drew out a small jar from the corner of the bag, so small I'd missed it.


“I hope that's enough.” I said. Julie gave me a pointed look that I ignored. The honey would be enough, and I knew it, but I felt spiky and irritated.


I licked a stray drop of peach juice from my fingers, then forced myself not to cram the rest of it in my mouth. This had to be done properly.


As we neared the end of the preparations, the town clock struck again. I paused, counting the chimes.


One hour until midnight.


I spooned the vegetables onto our plates, and divided the peach slices. I took the extra one. Both my sisters noticed this, but while Cora looked conflicted and Julie looked outright annoyed, neither said anything.


My sisters and I sat down to our meal.



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Eighteen









 




Chapter Eighteen




Cora


We reached the Treelight Holding without incident, though Jin and Eot seemed disgruntled nonetheless. 


From the half-sleep I’d managed within the bouncing wagon, I woke to the light press of Treelight on my magic. The Holding wasn’t in view yet, but I sensed its proximity. Kiriel pursed their lips, noticing my reaction, but didn’t comment. 


A headache pulsed through my skull, and my body felt vaguely wrong, like I was getting sick. I wished I had a coat. The world outside Brokenstar didn’t have its advantage of perpetually good weather, and summer had slipped into autumn’s chill crispness. But I tried to put my discomfort out of my mind. 


Treelight's barrier let us through, though it was like pushing through mud. I was tense, knowing what that sort of power could do if it judged me unacceptable. Could it sense Brokenstar on me, or Hester, or simply my intentions? 


Yet then we were through, under the sort of pale sunshine that comes after rain. We'd made good time, as night was just starting to creep into the far edge of the sky. 


Nearby were the sheep that made Treelight's milk and cheese so famous, bleating softly, each with the Holding crest dyed into their fur. 


“Treelight,” Kiriel murmured as we stepped out of the cart, stretching away the tightness of travel, “Looks like Ritton’s doing well for himself.” 


They glanced at Anisa, who looked away from her scrutiny of the barrier to say, “You know so much about it, do you?”


I looked around, trying to figure out where the pears were. If I could break away from the others—


“You feeling all right?” Alain asked me, drawing Anisa and Kiriel's attention as well.


So much for breaking away. 


I gave a small nod, hiding my frustration. 


Holding wights blurred the air, pushing the horses and cart into the stables I saw nearby. Jin instructed us to bring a few baskets he’d already unloaded with us as we followed him to the main house. They were full of samples of the products Jin and Eot had purchased at other Holdings, to tempt the Treelight Holder into purchasing more. 


Inside, up a small flight of stairs in a room full of pale silver ornaments and dark wood furniture, waited Ritton, Holder of Treelight. I remembered his name, as Hester had recently invited him to Brokenstar. He'd claimed to be too busy, and she'd fumed for days. She could spit out a name as scornfully as Mother used to. 


Anisa, Alain, Kiriel, and I waited in the corner of the room, baskets in hand for when Jin and Eot called for them. The four of us were not introduced, or encouraged to speak, though when Ritton saw us his lips pursed briefly, as if he were surprised. I tensed, worried he somehow knew who I was, but then he focused on Jin and Eot as if the four of us weren’t there. 


The merchants and Ritton drank a tisane poured from the heavy white teapot in the center of the table. I could tell from the smell it was full of products from this Holding, lavender and other herbs filling the air.


I could feel myself starting to sweat, though my skin was still chilled from the wagon’s chill. I didn’t know how long these negotiations were going to take. I needed to get away and find a pear, but there was only one door to this room and there was no way I could move without everyone seeing me. 


With any hope, soon they would finish this stage of negotiations and head out onto the Holding grounds. I should be able to make an excuse and slip away.


I wasn't paying much attention to the bargaining, except to bring my basket full of Sweetmallow vegetables forward when Eot gestured for me. I kept my eyes low, hoping Ritton would think I was just being respectful. I didn’t need any extra attention from him. 


I returned to where the others stood. Alain caught my eye, rolling his own in an exaggerated show of impatience. I smiled, despite myself.


A few minutes later Ritton leaned back slightly in his chair, looking satisfied. I didn't know Jin and Eot well enough to interpret the look that passed between them, but they stood and bowed to Ritton as he surveyed them. 


“Can't stand not having everyone worship him,” Kiriel muttered, earning themself a sharp look from Anisa. 


“It's tradition,” I said quietly, leaning a touch closer. Holding merchants always thanked the Rulers they did business with for their products, and for the magic within them. Holding Rulers, as a whole, were very keen on everyone remembering they were the ones with the power. 


In some ways, Hester was perfectly suited to the job. 


The looks the other three gave me indicated they knew it was tradition, and didn't care, and more so were annoyed with me for mentioning it. 


“Honorable merchants,” Ritton said, indicating the door, “will you join me outside?”


We followed them out of the room. I prepared to ask permission to absent myself for hygiene reasons, but suddenly a sound coming from outside the house stopped my heart. 


The buzzing of bees. 


Eot frowned, tilting his head toward the sound. Ritton's brow scrunched in surprise. 


I closed my eyes, willing the others not to look at me, and sought for my magic. It was a little easier to find, now that I was farther from Hester. There wasn't much, but I ordered what I could find to surround me. I shaped it, clumsy but persistent, until there were no holes, no cracks for small bees to fly through and find me. 


Please, I begged my magic, please hide me. 


The world paled, all the saturation sucked out of it. I didn't know if this would work. Distress squeezed my chest, and I shivered like I was naked in a blizzard. 


Hester would have had a plan if she were in my place. She would have done something clever, or charmed someone into helping her. She would have found a way to turn being in an unfamiliar place to her advantage. 


If Julie were still alive she would have fought her way out, battering past whatever walls or words dared get in her way. 


But I didn't know how to do any of those things. I'd always stood between my sisters' arguments, but I never learned how to fight as they did. 


From the other end of the hall, the force of Treelight's Holding wights thundered towards us. 


“Get back in there and stay!” Ritton ordered, his previous goodwill abandoned in place of evident concern. We filed back into the room as he took off after the wights, who slammed the door behind us. The second it closed I raced for the window, pushed the curtains out of the way, and was relieved when the window had a view of the area in front of the house.


“You know what this is about?” Anisa asked in an undertone.


I stared down. “Unfortunately, yes.” 


Ritton walked out the front door and strode across the thick grass, stopping right in front of the hovering cloud of bees. Black and yellow and constantly in motion, diverted from their usual tasks but still alert. They pulled forward and encircled his head so thickly he wasn't visible above the neck anymore. 


They were Brokenstar bees. 


I choked on my own breath, surprising the others into joining me. They jostled for a view, pushing me back from the window so I had to crane my neck. 


The bees still hovered around Ritton, though as far as I could tell they weren’t harming him. He hadn’t called on any magic to defend himself. But then why were they here?


Their buzzing was less angry than the day they killed for Hester, though I couldn't have explained what the difference was. Ritton stepped backwards out of their cloud, his head moving like he was talking to them. Then he drew away and the bees flew, quickly disappearing beyond Treelight's boundaries. 


At least I didn't have to pretend I wasn't confused. 


“I don't like this.” Kiriel looked at me like this was my fault.


“Shh!” Alain scolded without looking away from the window. 


Ritton came back into the room, and leaned on the back of the chair he'd sat in before. His shoulders twitched with what I suspected was anger.


“I have received a communication from the Holder of Brokenstar.” He looked at each of us in turn, as if expecting a reaction. I bit the inside of my mouth, willing myself not to give anything anyway. His looked longest at Anisa. She stared back at him boldly, and I expected him to comment on her lack of respect. But then he just said, “Brokenstar has been attacked, product has been taken, and the Ruler's sister had been kidnapped. Holder Brokenstar fears other Holdings are at risk from the same people, but was unable to identify them. She believes them to be heading this way.” He took a quick breath, like he was about to say more, but remained silent. 


My head throbbed with panic, the fear trying to burst its way out of me. I stifled the noise I almost made, turning it into a cough. 


The bees had been so close, yet they hadn't found me. They didn’t even seemed to have been looking for me. Just messengers.


That meant Hester was weaker without me close. Good. But I knew better than to think that meant she'd stop looking. 


How many other Holdings had she contacted already? 


“Holder Treelight,” Jin exclaimed, his voice barely concealing his agitation, “is there any word on whether these thieves have been apprehended?” The look he shared with Eot indicated they were very displeased with the thought of someone cutting into their business. 


“Unfortunately they are still at large.” 


Jin opened his mouth again but Ritton leveled a look that silenced him. 


“I’m afraid it will be necessary to fortify my Estate’s barriers to defend against this threat.” Ritton’s words sounded oddly prepared, like they hid his real thoughts. “This means no one can pass in or out of the Holding until I am finished.” He briefly looked at Anisa, who nodded tightly, and then Ritton left the room. 


“Holder Treelight.” Eot folded his hands behind himself, which did nothing to hide how tense he was as he followed Ritton into the hall. “We have other engagements to keep. Our clients—”


Ritton turned in the doorway. “You will leave when I am finished with my work.” 


The sound of Ritton's footsteps headed away as Eot came back into the room, looking defeated. 


Holding wights coursed inside, encircling the two merchants in a way that suggested they should follow. Jin and Eot obeyed, though their heads were bent together into quiet, frantic conversation. The door closed behind them.


“I’m glad no one is worrying themselves about our comfort,” Kiriel commented.


“Slaughtered gods,” Alain muttered, staring out the window as if remembering the bees.


I sat in the chair Eot had used earlier, my confidence dimming. My headache strengthened. “How long can he keep us here?”


Kiriel looked at me skeptically. “He’s a Holder.” Which meant as long as he wanted to. Their face softened, and they stepped closer to me. “Are you sick?” 


I shook my head. “I’m fine.” But the barrier I’d created against my fear finally broke. The longer I was on Treelight the easier it would be for Hester to find me. The bees could come back. I needed a pear and then I needed to get out. 


Anisa rolled her eyes. “I don't know what things are like back on Brokenstar, but—”


“I need you to create a distraction for me.” Only after I said it did I realize how much like Hester I sounded.


“Who do you think you are?” Alain asked.


“Two jars of honey don’t make you a Holder.” Anisa's voice was low.


I swallowed back panic. “Please. I need help.” I felt my ability to cope was gaining more holes by the minute. 


“We already got you out of Brokenstar. We’re not running a travel service.” 


“Why do you need a distraction?” Kiriel asked, their voice light as if they didn’t want me to think they were committing to anything. Anisa shot them a glance but Kiriel just shrugged. “Let’s hear her out. It’s not like we’ve got somewhere to be.” They sat in the chair next to me, and Alain rested his hands on the chair’s back. Anisa stayed standing, but I took her silence as license to speak. 


“Thank you.” I took a breath, weighing the risk of giving them details. “I need to work a spell, and it requires an ingredient from this Holding.”


“Listen,” Anisa said, narrowing her eyes. “We've been ordered to stay put. Your quest will have to wait. I'm not dealing with an angry Holder and his wights for your...spell.” She said “spell” as if I’d admitted to wanting something purely frivolous.


“I need to work a spell against my sister. She’s hurt me, a lot, and I’m done letting her. She took my magic and I’m going to take it back but I need fruit from this Holding and then I need to get to Marrowgreen and then I...”


Alain and Kiriel were staring at Anisa.


“What?” I asked. Something had changed. 


“We're not taking you to Marrowgreen,” Anisa said. “And you're not taking anything from Ritton’s land.”


Alain frowned.


Ritton. Not Holder of Treelight. Just Ritton. 


I looked at Anisa. “You knew him before we got here.”


“You want me to go tell those bees where you are?” She let out an annoyed breath. “We should have left you on Brokenstar.”


“What makes his land different?” I pushed the point. “How is Treelight different from any other Holding you steal from?”


Her mouth flattened. I was getting to her. 


“You were willing to steal whatever you could get from Brokenstar, but I can’t take a single piece of fruit from Treelight?”


“Stop it.”


Judging by how uncomfortable Alain and Kiriel looked, some version of this discussion had happened before. 


I thought of how Ritton looked at them, and the way he didn't look at them. How his eyes had gone to Anisa before. 


“Ritton knows who you are.”


None of them denied it.


“He knows what you're doing and isn't concerned about stopping you because he knows you won't do it to him.” 


“You shouldn't talk about things you don't understand.” 


“Don't tell me what I don't understand!” I snapped, harsh enough Kiriel took a step backwards. 


This was just like what Hester did to me all the time. Telling me I couldn't pass judgment because I didn't really know what was happening. I was done with that. “Tell me what I need to know.”


“You're the one who wanted to come with us. You offered to help.”


“And just what am I helping with?” It shouldn't have mattered as much as it did. They'd gotten me away from Brokenstar, and to Treelight. But I was furious. “Ritton's paying you to steal from other Holdings.”


Hester was right to be worried about a threat from another Holding. There was a small, glass-sharp satisfaction in knowing more than she did, but that didn’t stop the fear snaking up my spine. I just barely understood what I had to do to overthrow Hester. If this was a plot to help Ritton take over Brokenstar, I didn't know how to combat him. 


And to make it worse, I suspected his order that no one leave until he strengthen the barriers was only to keep up the act in front of the merchants, who went to many Holdings and spoke with all of their Rulers. Ritton couldn’t them relating a story of how Lord Treelight didn’t guard properly against possible thieves. 


“Is the honey I gave you for him?” I focused on my anger, hoping to hide my fear. My breaths were rough, like sand filled my lungs. 


“He doesn't know about the honey.” For the first time, I noticed the exhaustion weighing Anisa's expression.


“Yet,” Kiriel muttered. 


“Is he only targeting Brokenstar?”


“No.” Alain answered without looking at Anisa.


I calmed minutely. Ritton might be trying to destabilize other Holdings, or attempting to grow their products on his own soil and expand his reach, but he wasn't necessarily working on the same sort of ritual I was. He wasn’t going to take Brokenstar from Hester before I could. I just had to hope that remained true.


“The products of Holding soil should not be confined to the sorceresses,” Anisa said. “People like your sister want to maintain their power, but magic should be accessible to everyone.” There was a strange catch in her voice as she met my eyes. “The honey you gave us is not for Ritton.” Her voice dared me to argue with her.


I clasped my hands together, trying to concentrate my remaining anxiety so it didn’t shatter me to bits. 


Hester was not here to hurt me. And Julie couldn't die saving me a second time.


“Why is Ritton trying to destabilize all these other Holdings?”


Anisa shrugged like we'd reached some kind of truce. “Why does a Holder do anything? For their own benefit.”


It was working too. I'd seen what the threat had already done to Brokenstar. But far scarier than Ritton’s pawns breaching the Estate’s barrier was their reawakening of Arnaud's curse, even if only temporarily. 


Anisa said, quietly, “When you can't just walk outside and pick something to eat you don't get nearly as much time to hone your magic. We needed a way to strengthen our own power before we could make magic more accessible.”


“So you became Ritton's pawns.” 


“The more we learn, the sooner we can defeat him. The sooner we can take from any Holding we want.” 


I thought about that. “He's not doing this alone.”


“No,” Alain lowered his voice. “But we don't know who the other Rulers are.”


Hester said they would try to take the Holding away from her. She'd warned of another Holding war, another conspiracy like the one that ripped our grandmother's power away. 


Hester had lied to me about so many things, maybe more than I ever realized, but it seemed this once she told me the truth.


The Treelight wights would be back to deal with us any minute. “I have to do this. If you won't help me I'll figure it out myself.” I moved past them. I had to get out of that room. Whatever Ritton was doing, whatever noble thing Anisa thought they were working towards, I had to think about myself. I spent far too much time putting others’ well-being before mine and I couldn't live like that anymore. 


“I'll help you.”


I turned to see Alain with his arms folded. 


“Thank you,” I said, surprised.


“Alain,” Anisa said quickly, “don't—”


But Alain move backwards, towards the table still topped with the samples Eot and Jin had brought. He grabbed the cup Ritton drank from and poured the last few drops of tisane into his mouth. He swallowed and then twisted his hands together in front of him. Anisa reached for him but he dodged out of her grip and stretched his hands toward the cascade of incoming wights.


I gasped.


“Go.” Alain's voice was low, and strained. Kiriel put one of their hands on his shoulder, glaring at me as if questioning why I was still there. 


I hurtled out of the room, toward the promise of a Treelight pear.



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Nineteen









 




Chapter Nineteen




Cora


I didn’t think about magic as often or as fervently as Julie and Hester did, but it was impossible to ignore when we began the meal that would bring us Brokenstar. My magic rejoiced at the perfectly cooked vegetables, at the convergence of garlic and spices. Though the ingredients were from varying Holdings, there was a sweet harmony between them. 


We ate silently, torn between wanting to make the meal last as long as possible and knowing the spell needed to be done at midnight, quickly approaching. 


I was too overwhelmed to speak, or even think coherently. This was what I was meant to feed my magic, and by all the slaughtered gods, it was delicious.


I scraped up every last drop of oil and spice from my plate as my sisters did the same. My magic roared up in me like a fire given fresh kindling, catching every bit of air it could suffocate and turn into more flame.


The Holdings’ powers coursed through me, distinct in ways I couldn't articulate. It was like forgetting a name but having it on the tip of your tongue. 


But one power stood out. Brokenstar. It was more than just a strong flavor. It was a fusion of taste and smell and being that was as complex as a personality.


Our food was gone quickly and we sat back, staring at our cleaned plates as we all wished for more. But this was everything we’d bought, everything we could afford.


Except for the peach.


I bit into my slice of fruit. The flesh had the perfect softness. And then there was honey drizzled on top, just enough to accent the fruit. This honey was almost musty, with a taste like berries.


I could do so much, if I only knew where to begin. 


My sisters and I looked at each other in acknowledgment. It was strange for all of us to be so in agreement.


We trailed silently back to Mother's room. Hester brought the book, holding it like it were made of gold. She placed it on the table and it fell open to the page we needed, encouraging us. 


Or maybe we just wanted to think we were justified in what we did. You can convince yourself of so much. 


Mother's dagger was on the table, next to a small bowl, the blade glinting red with Arnaud's blood.


“Ready?” Hester asked. There was a lightness in her voice, the surge of magic affecting her.


Julie and I nodded.


Hester reached for Julie's hand, which Julie gave more willingly than she usually would. Julie’s eyes were slightly distant, as if she saw more than just Hester and I. 


Hester pressed the already bloodied blade to Julie's index finger, holding it over the bowl until three drops of blood fell to coat the bottom. The blood was bright, red and rich. 


Hester turned Julie's hand upwards and murmured over it, and the flesh closed back over itself without even a scar. She pushed Julie away and reached for me.


Another cut, my flesh stinging and itching as three drops fell to join Julie's. They intermingled immediately, as if they'd all come from the same person. Hester murmured and my flesh closed, and at the same time my mouth filled with the taste of peaches. My finger itched, but as the taste faded no more blood escaped.


Hester cut her own finger the same way she had ours.


The moment her blood reached ours, the contents of the bowl emitted a pale glow. Startled, I looked to Julie, but she only stared intently at Hester. A shudder went through me.


Hester tipped her fingers with our blood and the glow exploded. The air whirled around her. She touched her fingertips to her tongue and closed her eyes. When she opened them again, a light shone and spread from her eyes to encompass all of her.


She raised her hands toward me, spreading her fingers wide.


Suddenly I started moving toward her, my feet moving without my will. The light around Hester spilled outwards and thickened, overtaking the entire room. 


Pain boiled through my body, surging under my skin. I lost control of my body but I didn’t fall. The light pulsed around me and pulled me up to hover above the floor.


Hester came closer, raising the knife. Horror like rancid oil filled my throat. 


She traced the knife around the outline of my body. The blade never touched me, yet holes opened in my skin, following its path. What spilled out wasn’t blood, but a thick substance whose colored changed and shimmered like water. My magic. 


I gasped, the pain escalating until I couldn’t scream. My magic screeched inside me, a sound like a wounded animal, and I couldn’t look away from my gaping skin. 


I thrashed, failed cries scraping my throat, yet the light held me fast. Why wouldn’t she stop?


Hester’s eyes followed her work like she was painting, her hands moving so precisely as they carved me up. 


“Hester!” Julie barked, scraping her way through the thick light. She looked frantically at me. “You’re killing her!”


“But we will have her magic.” Hester’s voice was a hush, like she was praying. 


I gagged, feeling every bite of our meal clogging my throat, my lungs, all of it trying to end me. The pain was a cyclone with me at its center, each wound layering more pain through my body, more pain than I thought was possible.


“Stop the spell!” Julie lunged at Hester, trying to get the knife, but only slammed into empty air, falling back. 


Hester was lit from within, power radiating around her. Waves of it pulsed toward Julie, throwing her backwards as she screamed.


Light spilled from Hester’s fingertips as she finished tracing my lower body. She looked at my face. 


My eyes burned, tears slipping down my face to sting every cut. 


Yet Hester looked triumphant. 


She dropped the knife, and raised her hands. Hooks made of light attached to every cut, and then she began pulling out my magic.


My blood boiled as my magic fought to escape but there was nowhere for it to go but straight to Hester. 


“Stop...” I croaked. I’d give her my magic if she’d just stop hurting me. 


Julie came barreling out of the cloudy light, her face fixed in a snarl. “This isn’t worth killing her!” She hit Hester’s barrier again but threw herself against it, over and over. 


Small lightnings emerged from the thick layer of power around Hester. 


I screeched as the last of my magic left me.


Hester’s eyes were wide, and scared, and determined. She whispered, “I’m sorry.” 


The lightning rushed toward me. 


“NO!” Julie smashed through Hester’s barrier. The disturbance broke the light’s hold on me and I fell to my knees as Julie threw herself in front of me.


“Julie!” I grabbed for her, but it was too late. 


Julie shrieked as the light hit her. She shot backwards so hard we both flew into the far wall. Light rolled through us, raising blisters on my skin agonizingly fast. Wood splintered and shuddered behind us, driving into the raw flesh of my back. I couldn't breathe.


Everything burned, and ached, and refused to end. 


Bruises rose on my skin as Hester funneled my magic to herself, reopening each cut with a serrated edge as the magic fled me. There was so much magic. 


Julie went limp and her head crashed against my nose. Hot tears filled my eyes and I choked on the stinging blood and phlegm filling my mouth. But I held on to Julie. I couldn't let her go.


The lightning faded, leaving an uneasy quiet behind. 


I needed to stand up, protect myself and Julie before Hester could hurt us again. But all I could think about was Julie. I tried moving from underneath her, desperate to figure out what help she needed.


But her eyes didn’t open, and her chest didn’t rise. 


Standing was impossible, my limbs shaky and heavy. I slumped against the wall beside her, my arms still around her limp form. 


I was supposed to keep my sisters from hurting one another.


I had failed.


#




SOMEONE WAS SOBBING. It wasn't me. I was too numb. My body had given up telling me what to feel. There was too much. It wasn't Julie, bruised and splotched with blood that might be hers and might be mine. Her head lolled on my chest.


She was limp, and her skin was cold.


I shuddered, finally realizing how much pain I was in. The wounds from Hester’s knife were somehow closed, yet every muscle felt torn and mangled.


“Julie...” My voice shattered into a squeal. I held her tighter, rocking back and forth. “Wake up,” I whimpered. “Wake up, Julie.” I couldn't stop shaking. Her cold infested me, sharpening the pain. 


“Cora.”


I looked up and saw Julie's ghost, translucent and gray, hovering at my side.


She stared at her body. I stared at her, unable to loosen my grip on what she used to be.


She met my eyes, then reached for me. I flinched, hissing as the movement scraped my raw back. She snatched her hands back to herself, mouth moving wordlessly. 


She dove toward her body. She went through it, and through me.


“Julie!”


The ghost was gone.


“Julie?” I clutched her body, desperately hoping she’d wake up. “Where...?”


Suddenly the ghost's translucent head broke through my stomach, her face horrified as she moved through me and then through her body. She flailed, her eyes going wider and more horrified with every failed attempt to hold onto herself. 


I just watched, useless. 


The crying grew louder, and I realized it was Hester. She curled around herself against the opposite wall. Her hair had snaked out of its braid, clouding her face. 


And she glowed, with the magic she’d stolen from us, and the life she took from Julie. 


Hester saw me watching her. The desperation in her face was at odds with the power coursing around her. 


I coughed, and Julie's body jerked in my arms. 


Julie's ghost whimpered, and I started crying at the look on her face.


Hester crawled toward me. “I need help,” she gasped.


“Help you?” I spat. “You killed Julie!”


Hester closed her mouth and drew back on her haunches.


I shook my head, tears choking me. 


The night ended with a sister and a sister and a corpse and a ghost, limned by the moon's death and the frost of another day beginning. 



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Twenty









 




Chapter Twenty




Hester


The mirror blurred. I slammed my hand on the frame, too frustrated to register the pain of impact. I’d been scrying for Cora for hours, ordering the glass to find me her reflection. Yet it failed every time, mocking me.


Without Cora in reach I had so much less magic to draw on.


I'd prepared a spell to use the day she and Damien got married, one that would link my power to their bond and, through it, to the soil of Windshriek. But now Cora was gone, and I was terrified of losing everything I’d worked for. 


I'd sent word to the nearby Holdings, warning of the intruders who kidnapped my sister. All countersigned with Emelia's seal, for greater import.


The thieves must have kidnapped her.


Otherwise her disappearance meant she left me, which was impossible. They must have worked magic to get her through Brokenstar's barriers. She could never do so on her own. She wouldn't choose to leave me.


Well, I grimaced at my face in the now-cracked mirror glass, she wouldn't choose to leave Julie.


But I couldn’t count on anyone else to find my sister for me. 


Mother had never been at Brokenstar with me, yet her presence lurked behind my reflection. Her disappointment, at the weakness of her daughters. Cora had been gone for almost two days. And in another four, she was meant to marry Damian here on Brokenstar. A lavish party, ending in an exchange of vows. I'd invited every Holding Holder I could think of. They needed to see me, powerful on my Holding, canny enough to unite with a powerful ally. They needed to see Emelia by my side.


Which couldn't happen without someone for her brother to marry. 


My study was stifling. I needed air before I destroyed the mirror further. I pushed away from the desk and went out onto the balcony, giving me a view of the apiary. I could send the bees to bring Cora back, if only I knew where she was.


All the theory and facts I understood meant nothing without the strength to carry them out. Did Mother know I'd never be strong enough? 


The air was pure and shot through with sunshine, but I still felt stifled. I needed something from Brokenstar to eat, preferably honey. Honey should help.


If there’s anything in you for it to help.


The insidious voice in my mind sounded so much like Julie.


As I turned to go back inside I saw Arnaud, on another balcony a few windows over and one level down. He faced the Holding, shoulders stiff like he was going into battle. He'd been avoiding me since the thieves reawakened his curse, even though it had lifted again when they left.


“Arnaud,” I called, leaning over the railing toward him. 


He started, looked at me and then immediately headed back inside. He'd never run away from me before all of this. 


I never imagined it would hurt as much as it did. 


I should have gone to find honey, but instead I wound through the house until I found the room I guessed he'd be in. What had once been a music room, for some long-ago Brokenstar Holder, and was now a mausoleum for a collection of instruments I didn't think had been played in years. Our instruction had never included music, so the instruments seemed another type of magic to me.


The room was papered in pale blue, and I bit back my annoyance at the finely crafted woodwinds lining the nearest wall. I should have learned to play one when I was young. Mother had played the clarinet, but her instrument had been sold off with so many of the family's possessions. No matter how far I came, I couldn’t escape reminders of everything my past lacked. I pictured my grandmother Aurelie in this room, entertaining or simply practicing. 


Arnaud sat on the bench in front of the spinet that commandeered the center of the room, his back to me. The entrance onto the balcony was now shrouded by thick curtains, amethyst-colored silk hiding his own land from him. His hands hovered as though he meant to play something, but couldn't remember the tune. 


“Arnaud.” I hadn't seen him in this room since before I lifted his curse the first time. This had always been his refuge. Sometimes he’d play, but sometimes he’d just stand on the balcony and stare at the soil, failing to thrive as it should under his curse. The Brokenstar Beast, overseeing the nightmare I forced upon him. 


“How did this happen?” He didn't look at me, and he didn't sound like himself. He sounded hopeless, like he had when I met him. His index finger fell on a key, and one soft tone rang out, heralding the start of a piece that didn't follow. “You broke my curse.” 


“I wish I knew.” I stayed in the doorway, not sure if he wanted me to come closer. How I wish I knew. To reactivate the rot magic curse I’d placed, someone would have had to know about it in the first place. Which shouldn’t be possible.


He turned toward me. “This is my fault.” His voice sounded like it was trying to burrow into the ground and hide. “I should never have agreed to come here.”


I moved closer, slowly, and when he didn't pull away I sat on the other end of the bench. “What are you talking about?”


“My family always wanted me to rule a Holding, but I was never strong enough.” There wasn't shame in his voice, just an acceptance of facts. “I'm stronger now, with my link to Brokenstar, but back then? I never had a chance.”


I'd never heard him speak of this before. 


“But you did win the challenge for the rule of Brokenstar.” I reminded him. I knew this as I knew everything Mother poured into our minds. “You challenged after Holder Eleius's death.” I couldn't stop my voice from shaping that name with the same scorn Mother always had. “You won Brokenstar rightfully.”


Yet even though I knew all those things were true, the look in Arnaud’s eyes made me doubt. 


Arnaud folded his hands on his lap, turning toward me. “My family wasn't pleased with the progression of my magic. They said I was wasting everything they put into my education.” He swallowed as if taking over-steeped tea. “I was trying as hard as I could, but I wasn't as powerful as they wanted me to be.” He shrugged, as if he hoped I'd understand.


If his family was anything like most Ruler’s families, they were bent on making their children into the finest examples of whatever they had natural talent for. 


“Neither of my siblings have magic,” Arnaud continued. I'd heard him speak of them before, and knew they lived near the rest of his family, in Merowtin. One of Arnaud's parents was a sorcerer, and brother to the Holder of the Shallowshell Holding. All of which was far away from the Holding their youngest son had won for himself. “My parents told me I needed to do my part for our reputation.”


I couldn't move. 


“My family rigged the challenge,” he said. “They traded favors with the families of the other challengers so I'd win Brokenstar.” His mouth twisted. “And they never miss an opportunity to remind me this was the only way I could win.” 


My mind bubbled over. I couldn't speak, and all I could hear was that single tone from the spinet sounding again, loud enough to drown me. He'd never truly won Brokenstar. I swallowed cruel laughter, pain rippling through my torso. 


Arnaud's great aunt had been one of the sorceresses who testified against my grandmother's worthiness to hold her Holding. All for the sake of alliance with Eleius and the rest of the scum who couldn't stand to see my grandmother have so much power. Aurelia’s outlaw prohibited any of her line from ever holding a Holding, which was why my sisters and I could never have challenged for Rulership. None of Eleius's family was alive anymore, and their ghosts should count themselves lucky for that, for the hell I would have wreaked on them otherwise. 


Gratification clawed its way out of the storm of my emotions. Arnaud's ancestors may have struck against mine, but look where they were now. Forced to rig a challenge to uphold their reputation. This was just further proof I deserved Brokenstar. I'd found a way to take it for myself. 


Except then the fog of my thoughts cleared, a little, at the sight of Arnaud. Hurt crossed his face, tempered by apprehension.


“After I was cursed,” he began, “my family disowned me.”


I knew they'd reached back out after his return to power, but he never let me see any of those letters. Not for the first time, I wondered what his family said of me. 


Yet I'd never imagined...this. 


Somehow in my great scheme for revenge, I'd stumbled into all of Arnaud's pain. 


I didn't care. I didn't love him. He didn’t love me! We just depended on each other.


Arnaud was useful to me. Simply removing him from Brokenstar would only have given it to another sorcerer allowed to challenge. But by saving him and Brokenstar so thoroughly, becoming his partner, I had what I wanted. 


His shoulders shook, though I wasn’t sure if he was about to laugh or cry. “A whole lot of good it did them in the end.” He shook his head. “My aunt rules Shallowshell. She was one of the first to try removing me from Brokenstar. It was all about what they wanted.” He sounded bitter, his eyes tracing over the spinet keys as if imagining a melody. “They said it was our family's destiny to rule.” He played a soft chord with one hand, and echoed it a few octaves lower with the other. “I don't think I want destiny making decisions for me anymore.” 


I put my hand on his arm. We didn't usually touch, but I hoped he took comfort from it, and not the unease spiking through me. “When the curse came back...” He didn't finish his sentence, instead rolling into another chord that rang with anticipation, though of what I couldn't fathom. “I don't think I can handle going through that again,” he confessed. 


He slumped toward me and I held him, my mind a jumble of plans and worries and, damn it, distress at his state. Distress that sickened me, seeing how weak I'd become. 


I deserved this land, and I refused to apologize for fighting for it. Arnaud’s confession only made that clearer. 


I was glad he couldn’t see my anger. 


#




Cora


THERE WERE ABOUT A dozen pear trees on Treelight’s southern end. I stepped under their branches, my breath catching in my chest and blood pounding in my head. The trees’ magic settled on me, as calming as it was intimidating. 


I reached up and pulled down a pear. It was stunning. Its skin was pale green and yellow, the colors so pure they might have been paint. The fruit was firm, yet my mouth watered at the thought of the sweet, juicy flesh inside. I wanted to devour it right there.


Instead, I forced magic into it, drawing on the instructions I'd found in the book in the Brokenstar tower. My magic had grown stronger with distance from Hester, though I still felt mildly sick. 


Drawing on both my newfound reserves and my memories of being cold, I created a sphere of pure ice around the fruit. I had to preserve it until I was ready to work the spell against Hester.


Tentatively, I reached for the pear trees' own memories of winter, pulling them into my spell. 


It worked!


In my hand the fruit was surrounded by a small, cold globe, translucent as fresh ice. It was so small but such a victory. Warmth filled me at the evidence of my own competence.


I looked around, wary. Whatever Alain had done, no Holding wights had followed me to the pear trees, but I didn't know how long that would last. Or how long before Ritton discovered what Alain was doing. I needed to get away from Treelight. 


Pain descended on me like a rainstorm. I staggered and fell forward into the sweet-smelling grass. 


Hester’s magic danced over my skin in nimble, stinging trails, making me remember the first time she cut my magic out of me. Hester was looking for me, and she wanted me back so badly.


No. I'd gotten this far.


I jammed my teeth into my bottom lip to muffle my screaming. Pain spiked through my limbs and up into my head, a thousand lightning strikes burning me into submission.


I'd let my guard down in my haste to find the pear, and she'd caught a sense of me. If she didn't already know where I was, she would soon. 


A harsh breath surprised me. I forced myself to look upwards, panting. Alain was nearby, his brow creased. My lungs hurt too much to speak.


“Hey.” He knelt in front of me, concern taking over the distrust in his expression. “Ritton knows. You've got to get out of here.” He looked at the pear in my hand, with desire but also with disgust. “You're as bad as the rest of them.”


I couldn't stop shaking and I felt hotter than flames. All my scars were as fresh as when they'd been created, way too sensitive and gaping with the loss of what my flesh once was. I couldn't see Alain or Treelight anymore. All I saw was the night Julie died, the first time Hester hurt me this much. 


She would get me back and this would all be wasted. I'd be her puppet on Windshriek and she'd make sure I never got the chance to be free again. That thought was enough to get me upright, though I gratefully took Alain’s offered arm for balance.


But then the world rocked with the Holding’s fury. An avalanche of Ritton’s magic roared toward us, so complex and intermingled I couldn’t tell what it was, only that it would seize me. Bring me back to Hester.


Alain murmured, barely audible, “No...”


My head had only gotten worse but I forced myself to look at Alain. He'd used some of the tisane to draw on his magic before, and his magic was still there to be harnessed.


By him, or by someone else.


Before I let myself think about it any further I reached for his power. It was like a dream, where part of you knows that nothing makes sense and yet it makes all the sense in the world. I saw the shape of his magic, and I saw how I needed to twist it to make it resemble my own.


Let Ritton capture him while I escaped. 


His face turned furious and I sensed him guarding against me but I lunged, with both my magic and my body, catching the core of his power. 


He fell onto his side, limbs quivering with movements he couldn’t yet make, eyes fixed on me in silent accusation. 


I was out of time. I ran, pushing myself harder than I knew I could, making for the edge of Treelight. I didn't look back to see what happened to Alain. 


I just ran, clutching the pear like it was made of glass.


#




NIGHTFALL MADE IT DIFFICULT to see my way out of Treelight, but finally I pushed through the barrier’s magic, like throwing myself through a wall of mud and mist. 


No bees waited for me on the other side, no Hester. My breaths were small clouds in the night air and my fingers started cramping around the pear, but I didn't dare loosen my grip. I started down the path we’d taken to get to Treelight from the nearby road, but after a few steps I stopped. Shame burned through me. I didn’t know the way to Marrowgreen. 


I noticed there was a sheep along the path, her head bent as if searching for fodder. She raised her head, a sprig of something green bobbing in her jaws, and asked, “Where are you going?” 


I stumbled, hopping awkwardly as I tried not to drop the pear.


The sheep tilted her head. 


I looked around, trying to make myself look like I knew what I was doing and could curse anyone who tried stopping me. 


There was no one around but the sheep.


“I asked you a question.”


She was a Treelight sheep, thick fur splotched in brown and cream, with the green Treelight crest on her hip. I'd seen the flock when we arrived, but how had this one gotten off the Holding? 


The sheep stamped one hoof, quickly nibbled through the rest of her snack, and then said, “I heard you speak to the ones you travelled with. I know you can. Now you're just being rude.”


I gaped. “I don’t know how to get there,” I finally said. 


A talking sheep was scolding me. 


I held a pear I'd stolen from Treelight, I'd just harmed—sacrificed?— Alain as a distraction to help me overthrow my sister, and now a talking sheep was scolding me.


“You're such a human!” she continued. “Yes, I can talk. Yes, I'm amazing, though I don't have to talk to be that. Where are you going?”


I then had to consider whether to lie to the talking sheep. “I, uh, I need to get away from here.” 


She stepped closer and sniffed the pear with her large, soft nose. She shook herself and made a surprised noise. “What are you up to with a pear?”


Maybe I could distract her before she alerted Treelight to my theft. I would not be foiled by a sheep. “How did you get off the Holding?"


Holding animals were bound to the soil they were raised on through the food they ate and the Estate’s magic. Just like me, I realized as my stomach turned over.


“No one bothers guarding you if they're sure you can't leave,” the sheep said. “Do you tell your captor everything you're capable of?”


I didn't ask how she knew that about me. “Then why do all of you stay here?”


Her eyes were dark, and deep, and somehow sad. “Most are happy. But my flock does not care for me.” She came closer, sniffing in my direction. Her whiskers brushed faintly against my hands. Her fleece looked so soft, but I didn't touch her. 


“You’ve just escaped too, haven’t you?” I felt a pang of sympathy for her. “I'm Cora.”


“You may call me Swift.” She brushed her nose against my palm. It felt like a greeting. “You need help.”


Her words sunk in as the cold night air seeped into my bones. I'd never needed a coat on Brokenstar, with its constant summer. I clutched the pear closer, but it had no warmth to give me. “Yes.” Cold air rushed into my mouth as I spoke. “Yes, I do.” I was so tired, but sitting on the cold ground wouldn't help.


She pushed her head under my hands and instinctively I started petting her. 


I had to get to Marrowgreen. But I didn't know where it was, other than vaguely west. I had to keep moving, but where?


“Let's not waste time, and get you out of here,” Swift said. Her voice gave every word an unusual ripple. It was strangely beautiful, and I wanted to listen to her more.


“Don't you have to go back to Treelight?” I asked. 


“They'd like me to.” She schnuffled. “You're the most interesting thing I've come across in years. Where to?”


“Marrowgreen, but—”


“I know the way.”


“How?”


Swift snorted. 


“I don't know how you've gotten that old without learning this, but you should never doubt a sheep's word.”


Something loosened in my chest, and I could barely hear my voice. “Thank you,” I said, shivering as the wind bit.


“We've got a bit of a walk,” Swift said. “Best we get moving.” She moved to stand at my hip, so I could place the hand not holding the pear on her shoulder. “This way.”


I followed her lead, walking away from Treelight. After a moment, she said, “We must go through the lost forest.” 



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Twenty-One









 




Chapter Twenty-One




Julie


Only three days remained until Brokenstar was full of Holding Rulers, invited to a party that seemed unlikely to end in Cora’s threatened marriage vows. 


Hester ignored me, either scrying or with Emelia preparing for the event that was apparently still on track. She had already summoned a fleet of couriers and sent them out again with hastening spells for their carriages and carefully written invitations for seemingly every Holder.


The tactility of Cora’s magic was almost entirely absent, making me feel constantly scraped raw.


I was happy to be ignored. I had more to learn from the ghosts.


I’d seen Faria take my grandmother’s body, but I didn’t understand the magic of it yet. 


I didn’t let myself remember that the body I took needed to be Cora’s. Not because the knowledge would stop me, but because I knew it wouldn’t.


I made myself think of nothing but the sense of passing through that channel, that impossibility of being pushed out of this world and painfully wrenched into another one. 


All at once the ghosts swirled around me. I was surprised, because I wasn’t in pain. I’d reached them myself. 


Can you help us? they asked me again.


She seeks a body.


She wants this land.


She wants our power.


“No!” I insisted, more scared than ever of saying the wrong thing. I was so close to knowing what I needed.


You don’t know what you reach for—


With a wrench I again looked down on Brokenstar from above, yet I also saw it from the side. My vision was split, like it was shared among a billion bees. It was too disorienting, and there was too much of everything to see anything well.


There were enormous, amorphous forms on Brokenstar, larger not just in size but in the way they took up space. Each of them was at once like a person but also like a portal, linking endless uncountable worlds to this one. 


Realization joined the already bizarre kaleidoscope of this place. 


It was the gods. The gods and the sorceresses who slew them. Magic poured from the sorceresses, their veins merely channels for weapons forged of dream and destruction. Sent to strike the gods. 


What came out of the gods’ wounds wasn't blood or viscera. It was brightness and comprehension and emotion so thick you could never see through it. Words and thoughts worked together by some impossible loom and dyed with the multifaceted colors of experience. It encompassed dimensions I didn't have words for, magnificent and enormous. It filled up my heart and stole away my breath.


Then the gods fell, for so much longer than the distance should've required. One by one they toppled, torn from their moorings by those sorcerers anchored within the land. A triumph of soil over sky. 


The world shifted, and I realized I watched the passage of time. 


I saw the sorcerers strong and fast on their domains, this patch of land like so many others on which murder was done. 


Further waves of battles came against the sorcerers, only to be absorbed into the soil like welcome rainwater.


Lives fell, dying over and over on these earths. But they rose again like sprouting plants in the soil. Integrated into the framework of the Holdings power, unable to leave. Their forces of life and magic cycled through the soil and through one another, all centering around the sorcerers like the movements of an impossible sky.


These lives, now so entangled, were the Holding wights. Those humans who died on these lands, fighting the will of the sorceresses. Like the thieves Hester had killed with the bees.


There was a horrible feeling of breaking apart and being compressed at the same time. 


Then everything stopped. 


I was with the dead again, floating amidst their voices. 


Yet I knew, with a certainty I’d never felt before, that I’d just seen the first Holding War. The deaths of the gods, and the source of everything our family had longed for through the generations.


My sisters and I were only the latest addition to Brokenstar’s story of slaughter.


#




Cora


SWIFT KNEW SO MUCH more than me. 


The forest itself was not lost. We reached its outskirts not long after leaving Treelight. Swift moved confidently through the dark, though if she used any magic to find the forest I couldn’t sense it.


What was lost was what the forest had once been. Swift paused outside the tree line, bowing her head as if in respect. Or in mourning.


“Have you been here before?” I asked.


“No.”


Yet her voice was distant, as if the answer was more complicated than that. I didn’t press her.


The high canopies were thick with foliage, but the trees were twisted and strange. Their warped wood was striped with colors I'd never seen in bark. Bright purple, and the yellow of good butter, and the coral red Hester liked to paint her lips. Their leaves were thin, each fiber visible like I was staring at skeletons hoisted aloft. Some let off pollen that glittered where sunlight made its way through the careworn branches. The pollen made me sneeze.


But strangest was the forest's smell. It smelled of ice and made my heart beat faster. It smelled like the midnight cold in the room at the old house where Hester cast her spell. The smell of magic, used to destroy.


“It was beautiful once,” Swift murmured. “Before the last Holding War, it was...healthy, here.” She paused, as if waiting for me to ask how she could have known this. That last war had ended during my grandmother’s lifetime. Surely a sheep could not be old enough to remember it. But I didn't ask. I believed Swift. 


And I'd smelled ice like that before. Here was Hester's act on a larger scale, the wreckage of sorcerers using magic to harm one another. 


I was no different from one of those rotting gray trees streaked with heliotrope and cerulean, bent and broken and sad.


We saw no other creatures as we entered, nor as we progressed, though sometimes we heard them. My heart seemed to beat in time with Swift’s hooves, and her occasional schnuffling noises were comforting. They were proof I wasn’t alone, and I didn’t want to be alone in this forest. 


That first night, Swift found us a place to shelter quickly, as the darkness and my fatigue made more travel impossible for me if not for her. I slept with the pear in its casked winter clutched to my chest.


The next morning, my torso was numb and headache worse. Swift was already awake and led me to a cluster of strangely colored bushes. 


“These are safe for you to eat,” she said. I pulled off a few of the berries, but didn’t eat them. I was still feeling sick. 


Swift sniffed my hands, then looked up at me. “You are used to magic.”


“Yes.” 


Her eyes were wide with a silent question.


I sighed, rubbing my fingers against the berries’ waxy skin. “I used to live on Brokenstar.” And, I realized, my magic had become dependent on its food. I could just imagine how happy it would make Hester to see me sick now. 


“You must eat,” Swift said.


She was right. The berries didn’t make me feel any better, but they didn’t make me feel any worse either. Their flavor was oddly briny, like their roots had grown from fish, lost in this part of the world that had no place for them. 


The forest floor was spotted with large holes that buzzed slightly with magic, as if marking where the strikes of a spell had landed. Often the space inside was peppered with small, bright flowers, the forest seeking to take back what it had once been. It slowed us down to navigate around them, and when night fell it seemed we’d made no progress. 


Swift curled around me when we found a place to sleep, her fleece as warm as if fire spells burned within. 


The next day the holes became less frequent, though the sense of wrongness didn’t dissipate. I kept spotting shapes within the forest whose movement reminded me of Holding wights, though they never came close enough to see any details. 


We edged our way down an incline, careful not to step in the pools of standing water which had a pale gold sheen in the thin light the trees allowed. Some splashed onto my ankle and it was slimy even through my pants, more like cooking fat than water. 


Just as the ground leveled out, the whispers started.


I whirled, yet there was no one near. I glanced at Swift, who stared out at the closely clustered trees. The streaks of color in their bark had grown menacing, and I could have sworn that some changed colors as I watched. 


Suddenly pieces of the trees detached, resolving into forms that moved like living flames. They surged toward us, and I felt their attention focused on the pear I held.


“Run!” bleated Swift. We took off, but the forms followed, the sense of heat lurking on my back. I stumbled over some roots and the heat intensified. I fought back nausea, struggling not to fall. Branches whipped low and sharp around my face. I bent my head and closed my eyes, not daring to loosen my grip on the pear to push them away. 


But the heat intensified, grabbing at my back and my shoulders. I was losing ground. One of the forms latched onto Swift, its roils of flame encircling her middle. 


“No!” I swung around in front of Swift, planting my feet. Thick heat coiled up my skin almost immediately. 


I flattened my palms around the pear, letting it numb my fingers. I envisioned the cold arcing through me, freezing my blood and repelling the flames threatening us, and then I ordered my magic to carry that coldness outside of me. 


The flames splintered off Swift and me with a flurry of high-pitched sounds. Spears of translucent ice spiked out from my skin, hovering unnaturally as they broke apart from me to pursue the flames. 


The magic left me and I fell to my knees, vomiting as my headache crescendoed. 


When there was nothing left in my stomach I slumped onto my side. My eyes burned, but I could see Swift arrange herself around the pear, keeping it safe. 


“Thank you,” I croaked. 


“Thank you for saving me.”


I lay there a while, until my reaction to the magic faded enough that I was uncomfortable with the dirt now coating what felt like all of me. Fear tightened my chest as I reached for the pear. If what I’d done spoiled the magic—


Yet while the ice sphere around the fruit had dimmed somewhat, it was intact, the fruit's sweet smell filling my nose.


“We should keep moving,” Swift said, looking back to the trees which had held the flame creatures. “I don’t want to stay in this part of the forest.” 


I agreed and we took off, though neither of us could keep up the pace we had before. 


Thankfully, we didn’t encounter any more of the flames, though I was jumpy all the rest of the day. It wasn’t until a few hours later, when we chose a place to sleep, that I realized how strange I felt.


I still felt sick, made worse by hunger and thirst. But at the same time my magic was stronger than ever. Distance from Brokenstar and its food may have weakened my body, but it was letting my magic thrive. I poured more magic into the cold spell, amazed when power answered my command with relative ease.


I knew this wouldn’t continue for long if I couldn’t eat any Holding products, but my magic felt amazingly real. Maybe it would last long enough to see me through this. 


“What is it you seek?” Swift asked me that night, after the sun finished setting. I understood the depth of her question, and I felt I owed her an answer. 


I told her of the curse, and my sisters, and the verse that was guiding me to Marrowgreen. She said nothing while I spoke. When I was done she simply pressed her nose against my shoulder and said, “Try to sleep, Cora.”



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Twenty-Two









 




Chapter Twenty-Two




Julie


After I died, I watched them carry my body away, with no more grief than had they spared for Mother.


I tried telling Cora to stop them, but she didn't seem to hear me. She only opened the door for the undertakers, her surprise at their arrival plain, and showed them my corpse. When one asked, his nose wrinkled, why she'd let the body sit for so long, she only shook her head. He and his assistant shared a look I knew meant the whole town would hear about this, but they took my body away with them.


They wouldn't take payment, only mumbled about it being taken care of. I knew that meant Hester, and I hated her even more for it. 


It hurt to see Cora in those days after I died. She wouldn't talk to Hester. She wouldn't talk to me. It was clear from the way she moved, when she did move, how much pain she was in. Her wounds didn’t leave marks on her skin when they finally healed, but they didn’t need to. I had no idea how to help her. 


I felt useless and sad. Physical barriers didn't mean anything anymore, so I often soared through the house and broke through to outside where I could stare at the sea. Once, I looked at Brokenstar's highest tower, menacing the clouds, and decided I couldn't stay in that house anymore. I wanted to get as far away from this horrible place as I could before I finished dying. 


But then the world slammed me back the way I'd come, back into the house. I tried again and again, at every angle I could think of, my paths less precise as I grew more panicked. Why couldn't I get out?


I'd longed so badly to get out of that house for most of my life. But now, not even death would break my tether. 


I don't know how much time passed after Hester worked her spell. Time was marked by Cora occasionally going outside, needing food or water as I no longer did. She'd come back looking thin, like the air tried to pick her flesh from her bones. She lost weight, eating the scraps she was able to afford, or beg. 


One day, Hester summoned Cora to join her on Brokenstar. 


The summons came via a carriage, a purple and silver confection emblazoned with Brokenstar's crest, propelled by invisible magic that filled the air with Hester’s silent smugness.


Hester had sent a letter a few days before, to let her know what was happening. I'd read it after Cora dropped it in the fire, frantic to catch words before the flames devoured them. The letter didn't mention me.


Cora didn't say goodbye to me. She didn't even take anything with her, just walked numbly into the carriage.


Soon after the carriage departed, I found myself flying suddenly from the house, through walls and trees and a flock of seabirds who'd never be the same. I shot through the sky toward Brokenstar, right through the thick magic surrounding its barriers, which pressed on me so tightly it thought I might finish dying. I finally came to rest in a strange room full of beautiful things, where Cora sat, startled and exhausted, on a bed. 


Hester was there. “Julie,” she greeted me, as if I'd just come by for tea. “Now we can all be together.”


I brushed past her, getting some small satisfaction in the way she cringed. Cora moaned quietly, placing her head in her hands.


Hester swallowed. “It's all going to be better now.” She placed a hand on Cora's shoulder, though Cora jerked away immediately.


I snapped, “She’s still hurting from what you did to her!”


Hester ignored me. 


Cora looked like she wanted to scream, but was too tired.


“I promise you both, I will make things right.”


I came close enough to Hester that she flinched. Good. “You promised you'd give our magic back after you used it. You didn't say anything about resurrecting me from beyond the grave!”


Her hands clenched the fine fabric of the bed sheets.


“You think I don't know they burned my body when they took it away? How can you ask me to believe I’ll get it back?”


“There are other bodies, Julie.”


I didn’t know what to say. 


“I will fix this,” Hester said. “I will take care of you, and I will take care of Cora, and I will take care of all of us.”


“You killed me.” I don’t know what I bothered. I knew she wouldn’t care.


Hester left without answering me. She had a Holding to care for.


#




Cora


THERE WAS A SUDDEN influx of sunlight as we left the forest, though everything still looked sickly. 


We found a quiet trail that wound through several small villages. Yet after a few hours, a Holding merchant passed us, their force of their winter casks radiating coldly out from their wagon. Swift stayed on my right, along the edge of the road, to hide her Treelight markings. Thankfully the merchant didn’t bother questioning the bedraggled girl and her sheep. 


I thought of Anisa and Kiriel. Were they still at Treelight? 


Much as I didn’t want to, I thought of Alain, and what I did to him.


That night, Swift and I sheltered under a small grove of trees off the path. The earth here was healthier than it had been immediately outside of the lost forest. It wasn't Holding land, but it was good, healthy land that could be farmed and planted.


Swift returned from her grazing with a green apple for me. She always managed to find something for me to eat. I nodded, relieved, and took a bite.


My magic suddenly kindled, the apple a lightning strike to my power. My headache eased. I spat the fruit into my hand, staring at Swift in shock. She rushed forward and lowered her nose toward the fruit then looked back at me, saying, “This is safe.”


I stared at the smear of apple on my palm, still tasting it on my tongue. “It tastes of magic.” I looked around us as though we might have entered a Holding without me noticing. “This is impossible.” My tongue gave lie to my words. The taste was bitter in the way green apple should be, with just a touch of lingering sugar. But beneath those flavors there was a small glow of power, warm and welcoming. I stared at the rest of the apple. “I...”


“Do you tell your captor everything you are capable of?” Swift asked, softly echoing our first conversation.


“But”—I looked at the trees—“how?”


“The ones who brought you to Treelight aren’t the first who’ve thought to free magic.” She made a movement with a shrug. “The Holdings are very old.”


Old enough for seeds to have spread beyond the borders, whether borne by people or birds. Old enough for someone, long before Anisa, to have gotten in and out with cuttings.


It made sense, but it went against so much of what I'd learned. “They say magic cannot grow on soil beyond a Holding.”


“Humans love to insist they can’t possibly be wrong.” She pressed her nose against my shoulder, taking some of the sting out of her words. “Rulers have much to lose if others can cultivate magic.”


The Holdings were the battlegrounds of the first war. The places where the first sorceresses slew the gods and those deities fell upon the earth, never to regain their mighty powers. Their blood infused the soil with their magic. The magic didn't leave with the normal processes of water and sun. It remained on the battlegrounds where it first fell.


Except, I wondered as we sat underneath those trees, what if it didn’t?


Magic didn't pass through blood. Anyone could have it, but it needed products grown in magical soil to be nurtured properly.


Yet if such foods existed outside of the Holdings...I shivered, and only partially because of the breeze coming through our grove of trees. This could change everything.


I ate a few more bites of the apple, along with the small amount of bread and cheese Swift had brought back for me the day before. She didn't tell me where she got it and I didn't ask. I had no coin, and nothing to barter with. A girl who stole would be pursued. A sheep who stole would just enter local legend. 


But I didn't finish the apple. Even though the magic in it wasn't Hester's, it was still unsettling.


Night fell and the wind subsided. We settled into sleep, my head resting on Swift's side. There was a kind of safety in being with her, though I knew deep down I had no safety to cling to. “Why are you helping me?” I'd wondered from the beginning, yet hadn't felt brave enough to ask before this. 


“There are stories among sheep,” she began, her voice taking on a cadence I hadn't heard before, as if she told a story she’d been told long ago. “Stories about the sheep who are cursed with the knowledge of other places.”


I stayed quiet, waiting for her to tell me as much as she was willing to tell.


“Your magic thrives on what grows on Holdings.”


I nodded.


“We also eat what grows in that soil. But we don't have magic for it to affect. For most of us...” She paused like she needed to figure out how to explain this to a human. “For most of us it doesn't matter. The world is just the world and we don't know anything beyond the soil we live on, but it doesn't matter because we are taken care of.”


I asked, gently, hoping I would not harm her, “What stories do they tell about the others?”


She sighed. “For some of us, the magic teaches us of other places. It gives us knowledge of things far away, and things that have already happened. The land makes us part of itself and teaches us, whether we want it to or not.”


“It taught you how to leave.”


She grumbled an affirmation, then curled her head back towards me. I stroked her ears, hoping the contact would be comforting for her. It was for me.


She continued, “The stories about us say that we should stop dreaming and wishing and thinking we are better than the others. That we're cursed, and there's nothing to do but hope one day we find the decency to do what's right for the rest of the flock.” She closed her eyes. “There are others who can speak, but they are not willing to do so. They don't want it known what they are.”


“I'm sorry.” It felt inadequate. “I guess we’re not the only ones who like to insist everything we say is true.”


“We will reach Marrowgreen tomorrow,” she said, after some time being silent. “It should only be a few hours' walk.”


I looked out into the night. Would Marrowgreen also require me to hurt someone to get what I wanted? Would I be willing to do so if it did?


What if I just got through the forest and kept going, just traveled until I couldn’t anymore? I’d never have to confront Hester.


I’d never truly break her hold on me. 


“You can't let them tell you what you're destined to be.” My voice was harsher than I realized it was going to be. “Just because there's a story about who you are doesn't mean that it's true.”


“Cora,” Swift said, “there is no shame in wanting your freedom.”


My throat tightened. “But I think there is shame in what I'm willing to do to get it.”


“When you are a captive, you either find a way out or you die. You can't stay forever where you are not meant to be.”


We didn't speak for a while, listening to the scrapings of small feet and the rustlings of birds in the night.


“What will you do after this?” I asked her.


She blew out a heavy breath, but sounded no more relieved when she spoke. “I hope to continue speaking, but I don't know if that will be possible.”


I stroked her coat, wishing I could do more for her. Realization thudded in my chest like a blow. Slaughtered gods, if I lived through this, what would I do after?


#




WE REACHED MARROWGREEN the next morning.


It was surrounded by a wall, overlaid with ice that gleamed in the morning sun. The ice was strange to see in autumn, yet stranger still were the vines within the ice, trapped like insects in sap. They were thick and green and undiminished by the day's growing cold, even as it stole sensation from me. They thrived on the magic of their Holding, no matter what the rest of the world would do.


The Holding wall stretched beyond where I could see in both directions, and there was no indication of where one might enter. I'd hoped there might be a gate for merchants to pass in and out of, not uncommon on Holdings, where I might be able to get the Ruler’s attention and implore them to let me in. 


There was no gate, and once we were within an arm's length of the wall, Marrowgreen’s wards started pushing back. Swift and I stumbled backwards. 


Marrowgreen would not give me the chance to ask for passage inside. 


But before I could start think of a new plan, the air thickened. As it pressed on us, the air filled with buzzing.


No...


Swift drew close to me.


My vision filled with the yellow and black of Brokenstar bees. They poured over the horizon, darkening the sky. Each buzzed a resolution to hunt me down and sting me and bring me back to the one who gave them their orders. To drain me of magic and fill me with poison and then empty me as many times as Hester wanted. The sound resonated through my bones until there was nothing else. 


I was dizzy. Everything smelled sharp and sweet. The bees brought the magic they drew from the plants and gave to the honey.


I screamed. It tore out of me, sending bees every which way until they floated around me like a bubble, the movement of their magic now confused.


I threw up my hands, blocking the beam of power the bees crested on. I shook against its strength but then hurled it back toward them. The bees brightened in the magic's light, strands stringing between them like stitches on cloth. 


I caught the weave of it in my hands and pushed it toward Marrowgreen's wall. It draped there and did not move. I watched, wary my attempt at a spell would fail or spring back on me. 


I could only trust in magic so much.


The knot work of magic flared bright, and the bees' buzzing gained a new rhythm. 


Then the stones of the wall pulled away from each other, with a groan like dying earth. 


The structure hovered for a moment and then crumbled, stones rolling past me even though there was no slope to this land. 


The air was too full of smoke and dust to see. I walked forward, trusting in what I'd done. The sediment began to clear from my face and vision, sliding down my body like I emerged from rocks myself.


Marrowgreen soil was under my feet. Swift was at my side. She looked dazed, but eventually said, “Well done.”


My hands felt strange, but when I looked at them they were unchanged. 


Marrowgreen’s wall was gone, and the bees were nowhere in sight. I couldn’t move, but I had never felt stronger.


Let the bees return to Hester and tell her what I’d done.


“Who do you think you are?”


I looked up. A person stood nearby, their features and outline blurred by clinging mist. What was sharply visible was a bow made of a piece of flawless wood like carved midnight, an arrow pulled tight. 


“There's plenty of blood on my land already,” they said. “Tell me why I shouldn't add yours to it.”


Swift growled and stepped in front of me. “She will do you no harm.” 


The archer shifted in a way that might have been uncertainty, but their bow didn’t waver.


“No!” A familiar voice called from behind them. 


My shoulders slumped at the sound of that voice.


It couldn't be.


The archer and their fog appeared to turn toward the voice.


The speaker raced toward us, frantic. “Leko, don't shoot!” He dove in front of the archer.


Just as Julie once dove in front of Hester to shield me.


“Leko, this is Cora!”


Father stood between me and the arrow.


#




Julie


“THERE HAS TO BE ANOTHER way,” I shouted at the ghosts swirling around me. “I won’t hurt Cora.”


You wish to take a body, the ghosts hissed. You need one who is vulnerable due to the power they hold. They pressed in on me, their coldness overwhelming. You cannot take a life with no power to it.


Over and over, for days, the ghosts had shown me Faria taking my grandmother’s body, letting me study the spell. Over and over I’d seen Aurelie’s magic, full of Brokenstar’s power yet leaving her vulnerable in the aftermath of the ritual. As if the magic kept her body from defending itself.


“Why can’t it be Hester?” I asked. 


She lacks power.


Power. The power of three Holdings, worked into a ritual Cora hoped would save us. I struggled to protest but shame choked me. If Cora’s was the only body I could take, I still would. 


Suddenly the ghosts swarmed, and I was lost in time again. The world became pale silver and dark gray. Everything moved slightly too fast for me to focus on what I saw. 


The ghosts would show me what I needed, but there was always a price. Once again I couldn’t stop the images of Brokenstar’s past swirling around me, caught up in whatever the ghosts wanted me to see.


I needed to get my soul back into a body before the ghosts’ control over me grew any stronger. 


Now the Brokenstar manor was in front of me but it looked wrong, its angles out of true. Everything felt older here.


Everything was older here.


A strange song moved through the air, its singer invisible. The voice shifted between high and low registers as effortlessly as milk dispersing in tea. Nothing about it was familiar, except for the tune it followed. 


Tell me, said the sorceress, what have you eaten today?


A plum from your garden


A date bright with sugar


A mug overflowing with cider


All the sweet bounty you won from the gods


It was a verse I didn’t know. How many were there? If Cora was right, and the lines held the secrets to taking another’s Holding, there seemed endless ways to do it.


The singing wilted away, the air unsettled in its wake. 


This isn't the first time, a voice murmured, for mighty powers to be slaughtered on this soil.


A force pushed me closer to the house. The grounds flickered in and out of view, alternating with a blurry darkness.


The entire outline of the house was different, the destroyed tower whole again. The topmost part of it was walled in glass, though I couldn’t see inside.


Everything smeared sideways, like a painting marred before it can dry. Gray and silver light filled the air.


The house was gone, and then all of Brokenstar was too. There were no groves, no flowers...


But then the air was suffused with light. 


Lightning struck me where my heart had beat when I lived, and I gasped as color returned to the world. The buildings rebuilt and the trees regained their lost growth.


With a familiar wrenching sensation, I was back in my own time. The ghosts were done with me. 


But the ghosts could pull me back if they wanted to. They had before, suddenly plunging me into the past as if they’d gotten a taste for me. 


If I could stay away a while, I might forget what I was willing to do.


Yet I couldn’t forget, because then I would become just another of Brokenstar’s victims.


I didn’t want to lose Cora. Yet I’d sacrificed myself for her once before, and I couldn’t bring myself to do it again. 


I whimpered, struck by an overwhelming wish not to be alone. 


I floated through the house until I found Hester in her workroom, the top room in the westernmost tower.


Hester didn’t notice me arrive. She was studying a small mirror I recognized as Mother's. I moved directly behind her and saw the mirror reflecting not her face, but a place I'd never seen before. The view shifted constantly, as if she saw through the eyes of a soaring bird. 


Or, I realized, the view of a swarm of bees.


Hester spoke to herself, too low for me to pick out words. The mirror's image came closer and closer to what looked like a Holding house, surrounded by a magical barrier much like Brokenstar’s. 


Cora had reached another Holding. Was it Treelight, where the song directed her first?


Suddenly the view sharpened, then pulled backwards as if someone on the other side of the mirror pushed it away. 


“No!” Hester gasped as the image in the mirror froze and then disappeared, leaving nothing but her own seething reflection.


“She’s taking my magic.”


For the first time in so very, very long, my oldest sister sounded unsure.


I wanted to remind Hester how little magic had ever truly been hers, but I forced myself to stay quiet.


Then she turned and frowned at me.


I so badly wanted to see Cora come back and wrench all of Hester's powers away from her.


Except, really, I hoped Cora would survive long enough to come back with her new powers so I could take her body. Hester wasn’t made vulnerable by her power in the way Cora would be, when she came back to finish the ritual. 


Yet for a few moments it hardly mattered, because I got to watch Hester realize she was being thwarted. Beautiful, perfect Hester, foiled by her sister.


She'd thought she could just drag Cora back to her. Slaughtered gods, I'd thought so too. But Cora, somehow, was keeping ahead of her. At least for now. 


Something like hope sprang up in me, dizzying because I barely remembered the feeling.


Cora might be able to gather the fruits to work the spell.


The feeling quickly splintered. 


The sooner Cora collected everything she needed, the sooner she'd come back. The sooner I'd have to take her body.


Succeed and I'd lose the one sister I loved. 


Fail and I'd lose her just as thoroughly. 


“I’m sure you’re thrilled about this,” Hester snapped at me.


I couldn't resist. “How does it feel to have someone making decisions for you?”


Hester's face formed an expression I knew every line of. “Everything I have done is for the good of this family. To fulfill the prophecy and restore us—”


“What part of the prophecy required one of us so-special girls to die?” I was disgusted with both of us, all the more so knowing how alike we truly were. “You don't get to use the past as an excuse anymore.”


Hester's eyes narrowed. “I'm done putting up with you.” Walls of magic formed around me, invisible but too solid for me to push through. Damn her. 


“Hester?” Arnaud's voice came from the other side of the door and the doorknob turned, slowly, the noise louder than it should have been. Hester, surprised, dropped her control over me.


“Disappear,” Hester said.


I hid myself as Arnaud came into the room. He looked tired, and a little surprised at Hester standing in the middle of the room, apparently doing nothing. 


“How are you feeling?” she asked, immediately all concern and poise again, and stepped closer to him. 


He paused, his hands loose at his sides. He drew away from her, closing the door and staring at the flat plane of wood for a moment before he turned back to her. 


He reminded me of the day I met him, like someone up against an opponent they knew they couldn't defeat. 


Hester tilted her head, for all the world with nothing else on her mind but him. 


She'd told me to disappear, not to leave. I wasn't sure if I was more scared of what she'd do if I stayed, or what she'd do if I left.


Arnaud looked unsettled, but when he spoke there was no weakness in his voice. “Hester, who else in on the Holding?”


She tilted her head, confusion filling her eyes. “No one. Just Emelia, and her siblings.”


“I heard you talking to someone in here,” Arnaud interrupted. “I've heard you before, talking when I know you're alone. I've heard Cora do it too.” He looked down for a moment. “I was waiting for you to tell me. I trusted you would.” 


Hester stared at him.


“Who else is here, Hester?”


Hester swallowed. “The wights—”


“It’s not the wights!” He let out a breath. “Why are you hiding this from me?”


I saw the moment Hester realized it that her careful game was no longer under her control. 


But she wasn’t giving up. “Arnaud, I’m not hiding anything from you.”


I materialized in the air between her and Arnaud, facing him. 


“You...” he breathed, his brow furrowed as he searched my face. Behind me Hester let out a small noise of distress but that didn't distract him. He just watched me.


“Arnaud, please...”


“I remember you,” he whispered. He watched me for a moment, processing the memory I sparked. “You...”


“Yes.”


His eyes widened, whether at my speaking or my agreeing I didn't know. 


“You kissed me and took my blood.” 


I nodded. 


“You cursed me.”


I didn't reply.


He looked back to Hester, his eyes tracking between us until he froze. Even in death, my sisters and I reflected each other. Arnaud swallowed. “Have you been here the whole time?” 


Hester stepped closer to him but I moved to his other side. His gaze followed me.


“Julie,” Hester's words were edged with everything she could do to me. As if I needed the reminder. 


I didn't look at her. “I've been here as long as Cora has.”


“Julie.”


I looked at her then. If I didn't do this now I didn't know if I could later. What had been done to me was not my fault. I had my own shame to carry, but my murder was not part of it. 


“Hester killed me.” 


Arnaud's mouth opened, and then closed again.


Hester let out a sob I didn't believe. 


“I took your blood so we could curse you.” Saying the words was like ripping open the skin I no longer had, but it was also like clouds finally breaking after a storm. “Hester stole my magic and my blood, and Cora’s, and used them to cast your curse. She wasn't strong enough to do it on her own.” 


Arnaud looked horrified, his mouth shaping several words he didn't voice. 


I found myself wanting to apologize, but I didn't have any words left either.


“Arnaud,” Hester moved toward him, but he stepped away from her. 


“I don't want to hear anything you have to say.” He left before she could stop him, the door thudding closed behind him like a judgment. 


“What have you done?” Hester fumed. 


I couldn't stay there. I flew out of the house, frantically reciting to myself the steps of the spell to take a body. 


I slammed into the world of the dead again. A cackle pierced my hearing, and visions of Brokenstar’s past spun around me. 


There was more I had to learn, and we were all running out of time.



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Twenty-Three









 




Chapter Twenty-Three




Cora


“Father.”


“Cora.”


We stared at one another, but then he buried me in a hug. His arms were so tight I squeaked and he immediately let go, apologizing, but in response I hugged him back.


I’d never thought I would see him again. I’d never been sure if I wanted to see him again.


We pulled apart. He looked both happier than I’d ever seen him and deeply concerned. Like I worried him. 


“How—” He shook his head. “How are you here?”


I couldn’t answer, surprise and apprehension warring inside me. The archer hadn’t lowered their bow, their stance speaking to a lifetime of practice. They wore green, draped to leave their arms free. Moonstone brooches were pinned at their left shoulder and right hip, bearing Marrowgreen’s seal. This was Marrowgreen’s Holder, the Sorcerix Leko.


“I know of your sister,” they told me. “Her magic is all over you.” Their eyes narrowed and I wondered what Father had told them of me and my sisters. “My land is not in danger like Brokenstar was. I'm not looking for an enterprising sorceress to take what is mine.”


Father sighed. “Leko, could I ask you to please not shoot my daughter?”


The Holder looked at him as if he should've known better. “She comes here without asking, without warning, with a talking sheep and fruit in a winter cask and the magic of a sorceress who likes to make threats. How else am I supposed to respond?”


“I’m not here to hurt you and I don't want your land.” I shifted my weight, uneasy at the look Leko gave me. “If you want to kill me, then kill me. I'm sure you can. But I don’t want my sister ruling Brokenstar either, and I'm trying to do something about it.” I paused, catching my breath as fatigue weighed on me. 


“By all the slaughtered gods.” Father rubbed his eyes as if he hadn't slept in days, and I caught the sympathy on Leko’s face as they looked at him. “Could we stop posturing long enough to at least go inside? Cora, when was the last time you ate?”


“Not since this morning,” Swift said.


Father looked briefly startled, but then he looked pointedly at Leko. Leko rolled their eyes, but lowered the bow. I tried and probably failed to hide my relief. Those arrows could be tipped with anything, magic or otherwise, and I didn't want to come this far to end up dead on another Holding.


Silently, Leko turned and started walking. 


I opened my mouth to protest, but then both Father and Swift gave me stern looks and I silenced. 


On our way to the sprawling building at the center of the Holding we passed through an apple orchard. 


An apple so crisp...


The sweet-tart smell was overwhelming as we made our way through the trees. I could have just reached up and grabbed one and run, run with everything I had left. But even if I didn't think there'd be an arrow in me within moments, I had to know why Father was here. So I didn't touch anything, only stared and marveled. Swift trotted at my side, her eyes continually fixed on Leko in distrust. 


We reached a courtyard full of large, heavy vases bursting with anemones and lilies so richly pigmented I had to wrap my hands into fists to resist touching them. Being awed by an Estate’s lushness wouldn’t help my position with Leko.


My earlier surprised panic at being greeted with both the threat of death and my father had started to fade, allowing me to notice the way the air was suspended in the best moments of fall, crisply cool yet not cold enough to be uncomfortable. Just the right weather to keep those apples so perfect.


Leko sat in one of the chairs arranged around the courtyard, bow resting against their knees. Their posture suggested they could be ready to murder me again in a matter of seconds if necessary.


While this did absolutely nothing to put me at ease, at least I had their attention. 


Father gestured for me to sit, taking the chair next to me. He smiled at me but there was something hidden in his face. Something like fear. 


The makings of tea were on a small table. This included a jar of honey with a Holding crest I didn’t recognize. Marrowgreen poured a cup of tea, added a scant spoonful of honey, and handed it to Father. He took it gratefully, his fingers brushing against theirs. 


Swift took her place at my side, rumbling softly. I finally managed to form a question for Father. “What are you doing here?” I didn’t know what else to ask, and wasn’t sure what was between him and the Marrowgreen Holder. I've never heard of any connections between either side of our family and this Holding.


“I was foolish enough to think going to Brokenstar would change anything. After your mother died...” Father shook his head. “I tried to convince her to move farther away, I tried so many times. She used to be so different, but it wasn’t good for her to be so close to Brokenstar where she could just obsess over it more, and it wasn't good for you girls.”


“You went to Brokenstar?” I asked, startled.


His jaw clenched. “Hester didn't tell you.”


I shook my head. Uncertainty coupled with my hunger was making me dizzy. “How long have you been here?” None of this made sense.


“Most of a year,” he said. “You should eat something.” I only then realized Leko had risen, left, and returned with a bowl of grass for Swift.


“Father,” I didn't take my eyes from him. “When did you go to Brokenstar?” 


“After you and your sisters cursed the Holder.” The inflection of his voice made me wonder how much he knew. “I thought I could get him to listen to me. But the moment I arrived he assumed I was working for some other Holding, trying to take advantage of the curse. He wouldn’t let me leave, though he didn't mistreat me. He was just too scared to let me go back to whoever he thought I worked for. Then Hester showed up, told him I was distraught and grieving and that I was no risk. She took my place. But I...I didn’t think you and Julie would want me to come back.”


My stomach clenched. And why should he? We’d arrayed ourselves against him so thoroughly.


“I’m sorry.” Father’s voice broke. “I should have gone back for you. I should have known Hester would hurt you two.” 


“Yes.” I was numb. “Yes, you should have.” Swift rested her chin on my knees, and I was grateful for the comfort. 


Hester had done more than any of us expected. 


“Leko and I have known each other for a long time,” Father said. “I needed someplace to go, and they were kind enough to welcome me here.”


“Always.” Leko stretched a hand toward Father, which he took with grateful familiarity. “Always.” It was the first softness I'd seen from them, and was immediately followed by a hard look in my direction. “Do not mistake my care for your father as any for yourself.”


“Leko's family and mine lived near each other when I was growing up in Brialin.”


It was the first time I'd heard him speak of his family with any specificity.


“I wanted to stay in town,” he continued. “I'd been offered a position at the University. I had as little magic then as I do now, so my parents weren't as concerned about me as they were for my siblings’ prospects. Leko and I wanted to be married.”


“What happened?” I was still angry with him for leaving, for never trying to come back for me or for Julie. Yet spilling out in front of me was this whole life I didn't know about, choices I feared Father had lost, much like I did.


“My family learned of the eligible daughter of the Holder of Brokenstar.” His tone frosted.


Our mother.


Leko's fingers moved gently on Father's hand. His shoulders loosened slightly. 


“Why did you stay?” I asked. Surely after Aurelie fell from power neither family would have been much invested in keeping them together.


“Because she needed me. She was so tied up with prophecy and everything she had lost. I was afraid she'd destroy herself, and you girls while she was at it.”


“We had no idea what we needed. And she destroyed herself anyway.” I didn't tell him that my current needs didn't extend beyond doing more damage to our family. I looked between him and Leko. “I hope you can be happier now.” My anger wasn't gone but I did mean what I said.


Maybe the story of our family would always become increasingly broken, the more I learned of it. I wanted to ask more questions about the past, but I knew I couldn't. Maybe one day, if I managed to be the sister who survived.


I stilled as realization spiked through my mind. “You don’t like my sister,” I told Leko.


“I don’t like Rulers who try to blackmail other Rulers into allying with them, no.” Their tone suggested they were unimpressed with my powers of observation.


And there sat my father. 


“You know what the Holder of Treelight is doing.” I didn’t make it a question. “Trying to destabilize Holdings by stealing from them.”


Leko just watched me as the rest of the pieces came together.


“The second time the thieves got through Brokenstar’s barriers,” I said, “they revived Arnaud’s curse.”


Father looked down.


“But there's no way to do that without the right blood.” I raised my voice. “Father.”


I waited for him to look at me. 


“You helped them?” I asked.


His blood, so similar to that of me and my sisters. 


Leko shifted in their seat, and I knew I was wearing out my tenuous welcome.


“Yes. I helped them.” Father closed his eyes. “Cora—”


“Don't bother.” My anger emboldened me. “I don't care what you're doing. Slaughtered gods, Hester deserves it.”


“Cora.”


“What I care about,” I continued, “is that you couldn't bother coming back for me, but you were willing to harm Hester from afar.” 


He cringed and looked away from me. He was hurt. I’d done that. But I couldn't stop talking. “Julie's ghost is still on Brokenstar. Hester bound her there.”


He buried his head in his hands and leaned forward on his elbows. Leko gave me an inscrutable look as they placed a hand on Father’s back. 


“Cora.” His voice was muffled. “I’m so sorry.”


My tears were cold on my cheeks. Swift leaned against me, and I knotted my hands in her fleece.


It felt like a long time before anyone spoke, though the sun hadn’t moved in the sky when Father asked, “Cora, why are you here?”


I looked at Leko. “I need your help.”


“You should eat something,” they replied, surprising me. “You look like you need it.”


I was too upset to eat, but Leko gave me a look that managed to be more piercing than an actual arrow. And then the travel and emotional crash since coming to Marrowgreen caught up with me, and I realized I was starving. 


The food was delicious and I didn't even care that it was full of magic. I welcomed the help it gave to my powers, thinking of what lay ahead of me. Assuming I got out of Marrowgreen alive. 


Before I realized it, I’d finished a plate of food. 


Father still wasn’t looking at me, but Leko watched me appraisingly. Then they asked, “What is it you think you need from me?” 


“I need an apple.”


Their lips twisted like they couldn't decide if they wanted to laugh or not. “You want an apple?”


Father looked confused, but he didn't say anything. 


Fear churned in my stomach, making me regret what I’d eaten. Without a Marrowgreen apple everything would be ruined. So I started reciting. 


Tell me said the sorceress what have you eaten today?


A pear from your garden


An apple so crisp


A peach sweet as nectar


All the fine bounty you won from the gods


Father went so still he might have been marble. Leko looked almost amused. “Wouldn't it be simpler just to challenge her for the Holding? Those old rituals are risky.” 


I laughed. That had never even occurred to me. There are certain things you don't think about when they've never been presented to you as options. My sisters and I had taken stranger, twistier roads to where we ended up.


Maybe the three of us were more alike than I'd let myself believe.


Leko pursed their lips. “Convince me you’re worth helping.” 


“You don’t like my sister. I don’t blame you.” I then told Leko of Hester’s plan, to use me to pull power from Windshriek. “If she’s willing to do that, what else will she do to keep her position? Help me, and you won’t have to find out. She won’t rule Brokenstar anymore.”


“And you will?” Leko glanced at Swift, all but commenting on me being accompanied by a Treelight sheep. Swift merely stared back at Leko, with a look I would not want to be the recipient of. 


“I guess I would.” Because that was the result I was working toward, wasn't it. I couldn't just take my magic back. By working the ritual I would be taking Brokenstar away from her.


I glanced at Father. Here I was, proving all his fearful predictions about his daughters right. 


“I don't want war.” I said simply. “And I don't want...” It was hard to piece together all of my feelings about the Holdings and the people who ruled them. “I don't want anyone else's land.”


Leko was silent.


“Don't pretend I'm not more appealing than my sister.”


Leko dipped their head. “You make a good point, but do you know the risks of what you're doing?”


“I know what I have to look forward to if I fail.”


If I won I would rule Brokenstar.


And if I lost, Hester would destroy me.


Leko stared at me for another long moment, but then they said, “I will help you.”


“Thank you,” I breathed.


“Cora.” Father stood, his eyes sad. He seemed to struggle for words, but finally he said, “Don’t let Hester hurt you any more.” 


I wanted to explain why I had to do this, but he walked away, back into the house.


I didn’t follow him. There wouldn’t have been anything to say. 



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Twenty-Four









 




Chapter Twenty-Four




Hester


My sisters were ruining everything. They never could stand me getting my way. 


Arnaud hadn't spoken to me since Julie told him the truth about the curse. If I entered a room, he left. I tried speaking but he didn't listen. I was finding it a struggle to draw my own magic out through my fingers and into the soil. The wights were, I was nearly certain, avoiding me.


Julie had always been jealous of me. Even as a ghost, she didn’t want me having anything she couldn’t. 


The worst part was that this whole mess with Arnaud wasn't even my biggest problem. I was throwing a party that was supposed to convince all the Holding Rulers I was a power worth allying with, and the sister who was supposed to get married at the end of it was missing.


Between getting ready for the party, making sure Emelia still believed I had everything under control and desperately scrying to find Cora, I didn't sleep for a day and a half before the party. 


But I still couldn't get a fix on where Cora was. I didn't have a backup plan in case she wasn't here, as I didn't think Damien would care to marry a ghost. 


As far as I knew, everyone believed my story that Cora had been kidnapped by the thieves. A strike against me by these strange thieves who had previously invaded Startlevine. Unlike Startlevine, however, I was going to fight back.


Assuming I could find Cora. Because nothing else would matter if she wasn’t here to marry Damien. If I gathered all these Holding Rulers to witness an alliance I couldn't follow through on, I would look worse than a fool. 


The morning before the party I tried scrying again, this time using the bees as my eyes. The images in the mirror soared across the lands surrounding Brokenstar. How could she have gotten so far in the few days she’d been gone?


But the mirror wouldn't focus on anything conclusive, and the magical protections surrounding other Holdings meant I couldn't see within those lands even if the bees entered them. 


I threw the mirror across the room. It shattered, and I heard Mother's voice scolding me for my weakness.


I couldn’t find Cora.


Yet as the sounds of broken glass quieted, I started, surprise cutting through me like cold wind. 


I sensed her magic. I ordered it to me, but it didn’t respond. It was just there, the link to my own power present where Cora had left an absence.


She was coming back.


I slumped against my desk in relief, my eyes heavy and begging to close and stay that way for days.


If I could sense Cora, she had to be quite close. And when I closed my eyes, surrendering to nothing but the sense of the power...


A thread ran from within me, stretching outside of Brokenstar's boundaries and through places I couldn't pin down because the magic moved so fast. But her movement shone along that thread, tracing her path. 


Cora was coming back.


And she was close. Close enough that she could return that night.


I could stall the guests if I had to. It might take every last drop of charm I had, but I'd keep the Rulers there until Cora returned to serve her purpose. 


And then, once she held the alliance between Windshriek and Brokenstar sturdy, she would pay for her selfishness. 


#




Julie


IT WAS THE NIGHT OF Cora's wedding, but she was nowhere in sight. 


Guests arrived in fits and starts as afternoon crumbled into evening, welcomed effusively by Hester and tidied into various guest rooms. The presence of so many other sorcerers made the patterns of magic on Brokenstar even more complicated, as the threads of their magic warred and formed temporary truces for the day. 


Night fell, heavy as a broken promise, and the party began in the house's largest ballroom. Emelia looked so annoyed I half expected her to start slashing throats. 


I hadn't seen Arnaud since I’d told him the truth about myself. 


I'd long since stopped regretting that I could no longer eat, especially knowing what the food here did to Cora, but the spread Hester had assembled for the party made that hard. Long tables stretched against each wall, heaped with Holding products not only from Brokenstar but also brought by all the guests, carefully transported with winter casks. Baskets full of gem-bright produce, platters of cooked meats and sauces rich with herbs from a multitude of Holdings. There were fish and grains and legumes in more varieties than I'd known existed. All of it accompanied by wines and liquors whose potency was increased by the soil they came from until it seemed their scents alone were enough to make you dizzy.


Hester probably thought no one realized how many honey biscuits she ate, grabbing one every time she passed a tray, but I did. Though of course, being Hester, she managed to keep a single crumb from ending up on her draping gown of heliotrope and silver silk.


I also saw the looks she got from other Holding owners. Cora's absence was glaringly obvious, no matter Hester's claims she was simply off preparing for the evening's vows. 


There was a constant, agitated ripple of magic at the edges of my vision. Brokenstar sensed that Cora was returning, and the soil was anxious to have her back. 


Cora didn’t know how vulnerable she’d be once she worked the ritual. She knew Hester was a threat, but she didn’t know about my plans, and I couldn’t tell her. 


I could. 


But I wouldn’t. 


I loved Cora in a way I could never love Hester, but I wouldn't let her take Hester's place as my captor. This was my only option, and if it meant I had to hate myself, that was no more than I deserved. 


I used to think Hester and Cora and I were all so different. 


Yet, cornered, we were all the same. 


“Don't think I'm not watching you.” 


I started. I hadn't noticed Hester nearing. I’d let myself forget she could always see me even when no one else could. Even without Cora here, I couldn’t underestimate Hester. 


“You’re taking all the honey biscuits,” I said, unable to resist the urge to needle her. “There won’t be any left for the guests.”


Hester smiled flatly. “Enjoy your freedom while you can.” 


I laughed despite myself, the sound harsh. “Only you would call this freedom.”


“Cora will be back soon.” Her voice was smug. Yet there was a fear in her eyes, that strangers might mistake for boldness. 


I said, “Enjoy your freedom while you can.” 


Her composure cracked, and I braced myself, preparing to flee to the dead.


“Holder Brokenstar!”


Hester whirled at the sound of a crisp voice and spread her arms in welcome as she spotted the tall woman clad in rich orange silk who’d just entered. “Holder Fellmoon, thank you so much for coming!” Hester proclaimed as she strode to greet the guest. 


I couldn’t make my move yet, but I didn't want to clash with Hester any more than I had to. So I drifted upwards and settled into a space among the ballroom's rafters where I'd be out of sight even if I let myself be visible. 


Cora was almost here. I didn’t have long to wait. 


#




Hester


CANDLES STRIPED IN red and dark amber were placed at sixteen points around the room, their gold wicks burning the smell of buckwheat honey and cherries with every moment the flames nibbled on them.


It should have been exhilarating, a rush of pride and excitement for all I'd accomplished. Instead, thanks to my sisters, I was more anxious than I'd ever been. 


The air was almost chill enough to be uncomfortable, as every guest had brought something to add to the tables of food and drink and the associated cold spells lingered long in the night's advancing darkness. 


I'd invited more Holding Rulers than even the Brokenstar manor could hold. Fewer than half came, but that still meant several dozen powerful sorcerers filled the room that evening, some clustered together in conversation and some dancing. A quartet of musicians at the far end of the room filled the air with lilting music, though it only underscored my alertness. I needed to make whatever alliances I could out of this night.


“Hester.” Emelia strode toward me as soon as I'd run out of guests to welcome. I couldn't put her off any more. She wore a deep blue coat with a high neck and draping sleeves over a soft teal blouse and trousers. The coat shifted as she walked, giving glimpses of the knives at each of her hips. I suspected the glints of metal at her wrists were more blades rather than bracelets.


I spotted her siblings some ways away, holding drinks and wearing coats of the same style, Damien’s in cerulean and Keldin’s in mauve. They were speaking with several of the guests from Leafgleam, though I couldn't guess the tenor of their conversation. 


Emelia's siblings had been distant since Cora disappeared, though while Keldin's silence was always tinged with an unearned triumph, Damien's was less steady. As I watched he looked surprised at something the Holder of Leafgleam said, then faked a laugh I didn't think was any more convincing up close. 


I remained unsurprised that Emelia had risen the highest of her siblings, though I thought it had more to do with ambition than ability. Emelia, like myself, had been the one most willing to fight for herself. 


She leaned toward me, with a smile as potent as it was pointed, and asked, “Where in the names of all the dead and bloody gods is your sister?”


“She'll be here.” I grabbed two small glasses of rose wine from the nearby table and offered one to her. She took it but didn't sip. 


“She still hasn't returned to the Holding,” Emelia said, combativeness warring with apprehension. I hid my small, weak triumph. Emelia still doubted me, but not enough to make her give up on our alliance yet. I was glad she’d seen me control the bees. 


The sense of Cora approaching was a low buzz, like an itchy spot inside my ears I couldn't reach. I took a sip of rose wine and smiled. “I have located Cora, and she will be back on Brokenstar with us very soon.”


Emelia's eyes sharpened. “And the other Holder of Brokenstar?”


“Funny you should mention; I was just off to fetch him.” I resisted the urge to shake my head to make the buzzing go away. “He was feeling a little unwell earlier, but I'm hoping some rest has helped.”


Emelia gave a small, unconvinced nod. “It's too bad how often your family ends up feeling unwell.”


“Enjoy the party, Emelia.” I pulled away from her and out of the ballroom, smiling at everyone I passed while distracting myself from Cora's approach by trying to find Arnaud. It didn’t do for a Holding's two Rulers not to be seen together. 


He didn't have to like me, but he had to play his part like everyone else. A Holding with two co-Rulers was uncommon enough, though not unheard of. But if there appeared any division between us, we would be lost. I followed my sense of his magic to the halls near the kitchens.


“There you are.” 


He jerked around, startled, but then his face fell when he realized it was me. He wore sturdy boots and a thick, fawn-colored coat with dark gold buttons. A small pack I'd never seen before sat awkwardly on his shoulders. The ground disappeared, leaving me to the mercy of the air. “You're leaving.”


He looked surprised, but mostly he looked tired. “How can you expect me to stay?”


No. This couldn't be happening. Not now. I'd worked too hard for everything to break now. “Arnaud, please...”


“What?” I'd never heard his voice so harsh. “Please let you continue lying to me?” He shook his head. “I don't know you. I thought I did, but everything was a lie.”


“Not everything!” I stepped closer but he backed away, though I felt he had all the control over the situation. I couldn't lose this way. My blood pounded in my head, trying to drown me and put me out of my misery. I didn’t know what expression was on my face.


“You let me think you saved me,” he whispered. “But you made sure I needed saving first. Who else have you destroyed to get what you want?”


“Arnaud—”


“You can have Brokenstar. I don't want it.” His breath caught. “Just let me go, Hester. I don't have anything else for you to take.”


I called for magic to steady me, but only a pathetic wisp rose to my command. Arnaud looked disgusted, sensing what I did. 


I could take his power, leave him under my control like I had Cora. And why shouldn't I?


“This was supposed to be our triumph,” I said. “Everyone here to see how mighty Brokenstar is, and from now on.”


“They won't miss me,” he interrupted. “They're here for you, and that’s all you care about.”


“I'll miss you.” There was too much truth in my words, but he was the only one who could hear me. 


“I trusted you. I made you my partner. And all the while I was just your tool.” He spat out the words like he’d accidentally drunk poison. “You never cared about anyone’s triumph but your own, Hester.” 


He walked away from me. 


I called on my magic, my throat so tight I couldn't have said any more even if he'd stayed. The connection between our magics was strong, made of stolen blood and Brokenstar soil. I could pull him back to this land. 


Yet now he kept walking away, and I kept not forcing him to return. In the blur of him leaving and Cora returning and everyone here, on Brokenstar, here to witness me triumph or fail, I didn’t have the will.


My eyes swelled with frustrated tears. I heard Mother's voice, scorning me for becoming another victim. I'd proven I couldn’t to make up for the power I lacked. In the end, my triumph was so much less than it might have been. Because I was weak.


I ignored the scathing words in Mother's voice. I wiped away my tears with my sleeve, smoothed back my hair, and went back to the ballroom. 


I had a party to host, and a reign to begin.


Nothing, and no one, would stop me. 


#




Cora


LEKO GAVE ME AN APPLE. They took it off the tree themself, seemingly unaffected by the lush smell. I couldn’t imagine growing numb to that scent. They worked a cold spell around it before handing it to me, and I envied how easy it was for them. They also gave me a leather pack to hold both pieces of fruit, as well as a small dagger. They didn’t comment on the dagger, so I didn’t either, just accepted it gratefully. I’d need it soon.


All that remained to my spell was a peach from Brokenstar. 


Father did not come to say goodbye when Swift and I left. Leko walked with us to the edge of Marrowgreen. 


As we passed the apple orchard, they gestured for me to stay back while they approached the trees, speaking too low for me to hear.


Suddenly the trees started bending toward Leko, the sound of straining branches filling the air like an orchestra just warming up, all the sounds at cross purposes. The branches grew with impossible speed, disconnecting from their trees though I couldn't see the moment where they separated. They arced through the air until they were directly in front of Leko, and in from of them the branches twisted around each other, the wood moving in impossible ways.


Breathtakingly fast, the wood flowed into the shape of a carriage with two sapling horses in front of it, connected to the structure by thin strands of bark.


“Take this,” Leko said. “It will get you there far faster.”


“Thank you—”


“Thank me by winning.” They tilted their head, making it clear I should be going. 


I looked back at the house, once, but Father wasn’t there. 


My hand twitched in something like a wave anyway. Maybe he was watching, just hidden from me.


But I needed to go. 


The trip back to Brokenstar was strange. There were two small window-like squares on either side of the carriage, wood stretched so thin it had only a haze of color left to it. Yet the scenery through them was a weird blend of places as they were and places as they would be. It made me vaguely nauseous, so soon I just stopped looking. My eyes traced the details of the inside of the carriage until I was convinced I could recreate it down to the last knot of wood. My sense of time was unsettled, and I slipped in and out of a nap that wasn't restful. 


The carriage’s route was not the one Swift and I had taken, so I never got a sense of where we were.


Swift curled on floor near my feet, not speaking. On some schedule I wasn't privy to, the carriage would stop for a few minutes and we would disembark for a brief respite. I could tell Swift cherished those moments as much as I did.


Yet whenever we were outside of it, the carriage seemed restless, as if anxious for our return, so we always kept those times brief.


But then I woke from something close to sleep, and realized we were almost at Brokenstar. The soil was singing to me, distant but fervent. 


There was desperation in its song, but I couldn’t tell if it was desperate to have me back, or desperate to devour me.


When we were close enough that it would only be a brief walk to Brokenstar’s walls, I asked the carriage to stop. I didn’t want to approach Hester with anyone’s power but my own. 


I thanked each horse for their help, and ordered them back to Marrowgreen, as Leko had instructed me to do. The horses and carriage disappeared with distance, the sturdy sound of bark hooves dissipating. 


Did Hester know how near I was? We hadn’t seen any more of Brokenstar’s bees. But if she sensed me approaching, good. Let her believe things were going her way. 


“There it is,” I said.


It was a foggy day, but Brokenstar's outlines sliced through the mist, proclaiming their place. I'd never approached the Holding from this direction before. Yet even though the angles and lines were different it sang with the same power.


A figure approached, details blurred by the mist. Swift grumbled, low in her chest. I stilled, suddenly realizing I had no weapon, nothing to defend myself against anyone but Hester. 


The figure emerged from the fog.


“Arnaud?!”


He paused. His eyes focused on me and then briefly strained to look at Swift, who gave him a short bleat in response.


I've never seen him look so determined before. What was he doing out here? Then I saw the pack on his shoulders.


“You’re leaving.”


“Yes.” His voice was flat. “I met Julie yesterday.”


My stomach dropped. “Did Hester hurt her? Is she all right?”


Slaughtered gods, what must have led to him seeing her? Julie always concealed herself. 


“I'd met her before.” He sounded bemused and sickened all at once. “Before I met you, before I met Hester. I met Julie before I had any idea your family even existed, much less that you were all so...” He shook his head. “...so fixated on this place.”


He said “your family” like he was summoning a terrible creature for an unwanted task. 


“Is Julie...gone?” I asked, hopelessly unsure.


“She's dead.” He stared at me like he suddenly had reason to doubt we spoke the same language. “She's a ghost.”


“But she's still there?”


He nodded, confused. 


The pressure in my chest loosened. 


He stared at me for another moment, and then he shook his head. “You knew about all of this.” His voice was less accusative than distressed. “You never told me.”


I hadn't realized I could hate Hester any more than I already did. “She wouldn't let me.” I waited for a pain that didn't come, unsure if that came too close to speaking of something Hester forbid me. “Hester killed Julie at the same time that she took my magic.” It was so strange, to finally tell him. “I only lived through it because Julie sacrificed herself.”


Shock twisted Arnaud’s face, but then he said, “You and Julie knew she was going to curse me.”


“Yes,” I admitted.


I thought to argue for myself, but I was just too tired, and what good would it do anyway? I couldn't fool myself into thinking I was totally in the right. I'd never before cared what he thought of me. I found myself caring now only when it was too late for him to know me as anything but truly one of my sisters, one of our family through and through. Was I any more noble than Hester? Alain certainly wouldn't think so.


Hester and I made quite the pair. 


Arnaud looked at Swift again. “You weren't kidnapped, were you?”


“No. I ran away.” 


“Then why the hell are you going back?”


“Hester took my magic. I want it.”


“You don't want Brokenstar,” he insisted. “Please believe me, you do not want Brokenstar. I don't say this because I want it back. I hated it. The weight of all that magic is constantly hovering over you. And it won't give you any warning before it crashes down, and it never stops. You can never rest, because the power will eat you alive, and if not then someone else will come and take it from you.” He flattened his mouth as if he hadn't meant to say so much. 


“I'm sorry.” I wasn’t sure how much I meant it to encompass.


Hope lit his face. “Come with me. We can get away from here.”


I stepped backwards, wary. “Arnaud, I don’t—”


“I don’t mean anything between us!”


Whether I should have or not, I believed him.


“But we'd both be better off away from this place, and from Hester, so why don't you come with me?” He glanced down. “Your sheep can come too.” 


Swift made a noise indicating she had yet to be convinced. 


“We can find somewhere new, somewhere Hester can't get to us, where the magic can't hurt us!”


“I wish I could believe a place like that existed, but it's not out there.”


Our world was steeped in too much magic to ever hope you could avoid it leaving its mark on you.


There were just too many places where sorceresses had marked the soil with slaughter. Including, if Julie told me the truth, after death. I think was the first time I ever doubted something Julie told me. Trust was too much effort after everything. 


Arnaud looked back at Brokenstar's outlines. “I have to believe there's somewhere beyond all this.”


“I hope you find it.” I didn't remind him he'd never known a life without Holding products, without every part of his world designed to cushion him. He didn't know what he walked toward, but it felt too cruel to tell him, after everything we'd already done to him. 


“Goodbye, Cora.” He looked sad.


“Goodbye, Arnaud.” I searched for something to say. “Take care of yourself.”


He smiled bitterly, shrugged, and then walked past me. I lost him in the mist. 


Swift nudged me. “Our time is short.”


I nodded.


Brokenstar lay ahead sharp and strident despite the murk. 


The Unblooded Sea flavored the air. This night was so much like the night Julie died. I tried telling myself this night was not the same, yet it too would end in death. 


Hester waited on Brokenstar. Slaughtered gods willing, Julie did too. 


I could run after Arnaud. I could catch up with him, and we could go far enough away to hide. I could try to forget Mother's prophecy, and the look on Father's face at the realization that his middle daughter was just another ambitious sorceress. I could try forgetting the taste of a magic older than I could imagine. 


I could try. 


But I couldn't forget what Hester did to Julie and I, and my anger devoured my fear.


I was going to take my magic back or I was going to die.


“Let's go,” I told Swift.


Whether I wanted it or not, Brokenstar waited for me. 



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Twenty-Five









 




Chapter Twenty-Five




Cora


Brokenstar wasn't as menacing as I’d always thought it. Not anymore. But as we approached, there was something I had to say. I'd let myself ignore it for too long.


“You don’t have to come with me,” I told Swift. “This isn't safe, and I know you just wanted to get away from Treelight. You could go anywhere, you could find—”


“Others who would speak with me?” Her voice was wry and I immediately felt guilty.


“I don't know what's going to happen in there.” It was clearer than ever to me that my entire plan hinged on a piece of verse I still imagine in Mother's voice. “I have no idea if this ritual will work, and if it doesn't...” I knelt, and Swift stepped close enough to perch her head on my shoulder. I wrapped my arms around her. “You don't have to come with me, because I think I'm probably going to die, but please would you?” Shame choked me even as I asked. “I don't want to be alone.” 


“I don’t believe I can help you in your ritual.”


My breath caught and I clung to her tighter. I wouldn't cry. It wasn't right to ask her to stay. She'd done enough for me already.


“But I will come with you as far as I can,” Swift continued. “So you will not be alone.”


I couldn't stop from crying then. She leaned into my arms, and it was a kindness. Eventually I took a deep breath and pulled away, rubbing my eyes. She watched me, waiting for me to decide. I nodded and she bobbed her head and then we faced Brokenstar. 


I sensed a presence on the other side of a wall, like a predator lurking patiently. Hester, anticipating me.


I placed my hands on the gate’s latticed ironwork, but it wouldn’t move. There was a warmth under my hands, like Brokenstar threatened to burn me if I lingered too long.


I laughed weakly. I was stronger now. But Brokenstar didn’t recognize me, and wouldn’t let me in. Hester didn’t know what I was anymore. 


“Hold on,” Swift said, and then she was gone through the wall as if there was nothing there at all. I stared as her tail disappeared through the stone.


I recited the lines of the ritual to myself, though after the third repetition without Swift returning my confusion ceded to worry. But then Swift raced back through the barrier. My heart soared when I saw what she held in her mouth.


She dropped a jar of Brokenstar honey at my feet.


“Thank you.” I grabbed it from the cold, dull dirt.


The glass was warm under my skin and the honey moved thickly inside. For a moment I was back in that lonely house on the shore, looking at honey in a bottle stamped with the same crest. Just about to realize my magic.


I opened the jar and poured a little onto my tongue. My magic thrilled to the taste of Brokenstar's soil, and the rose hips used to flavor the sweet substance. 


I was stronger, from my time away from Hester, and this was the nourishment I needed, as much as it felt like my magic was betraying me with its desire to be back on Brokenstar. I needed all the power I could get.


I let myself have a bit more, but then replaced the lid on the jar and placed it in my pack with the pear and apple. I might need the honey's help later and I couldn't be sure of getting another jar. 


I placed my hands on the barrier. A will pushed back on me, as if this wasn’t a wall but a large, strong pair of hands.


“I belong here,” I said, “and you will allow me inside.”


I thought of Hester's magic within the Holding, the warp and weft of my prison. I imagined my magic traveling downward through my body, going through the soles of my feet into the soil and then upwards again, infesting these stones and weakening them. I shoved my magic into every crack and crevice in the wall, looking for every tiny loophole in her spells.


The barrier shuddered, then went transparent, still rough against my hands. Pressure pushed on me from every angle, coating my skin until I felt like I was drowning in sap. But I thought of everything Hester had done. Suddenly Swift was at my side, contributing her own strength. 


Finally the pressure evaporated and a patch of the barrier tumbled apart, magic and stone alike. 


I stepped onto Brokenstar. My heart twisted and my magic tossed inside me like a thunderstorm. The air whipped past, creating a barrier of flurrying bracken around Swift and I.


Hester pulled on my magic, but as I struggled against her I realized her pull wasn’t like before. She didn't just want my magic back. She was frantic for it.


I focused on the taste of the honey and the texture of the soil. My magic remembered being in Hester’s cage, and it wanted to return. Returning would be so much simpler and less painful than what I forced it to do.


Some of my magic slipped away. I dropped to the ground, digging my hands deep into the earth. I wished I could crawl inside and hide, hibernating until a kinder season arrived. “Help me!” I begged Brokenstar, desperate to halt the magic bursting out of my control.


My vision blurred. I couldn't make sense of anything. 


Then, thank the dead and bloodied gods, it stopped. I held myself tightly, willing myself back to capability.


The main house loomed as it always had. Candle lights waved in the windows, like a million sentries waiting to report my return. 


Something was different. There was too much magic crammed within Brokenstar. I knelt, placing my hands on the ground to ask the soil what had changed. 


The Holding woke to my question, slightly confused but not resisting. Instead, it was eager, and curious at my asking instead of commanding. Warmth surged upwards from the soil, as it gave me a view of the magic pulsing from inside the house. Almost all of them were magics from Holdings I couldn't recognize. 


Of course. This was the night I was meant to be married, at the end of Hester's grand party, and Brokenstar was full of guests. 


I wondered what traps she had planned for all the other sorcerers, but I shoved that thought away. I’d worry about them later. Or I'd be dead and wouldn't need to. She knew I was back. The longer I waited, the more time I gave her to funnel her desperation into a plan that might work.


In the southeast corner of the Holding was a small grove of peach trees, still bearing fruit despite the autumn overtaking the rest of the world.


The first peach I touched came off the tree like it had been waiting for me, the smell succulent and sweet. 


A peach from Brokenstar was the last part of the verse. My final ingredient. 


I shook, and not because of the evening’s chill. With the peach in my left hand, I used my right hand to open the pack. Swift stood guard, watching for anyone who might approach. I couldn’t help but long for the presence of the ghost who had helped me, what felt like so very long ago.


The pear and the apple were still intact, though I could sense my cold spells nearing their end. I lay out my ingredients.


A pear from Treelight.


An apple from Marrowgreen.


A peach from Brokenstar. 


And, finally, the jar of honey Swift had brought me. All the sour and the sweet of Brokenstar in concentrated, shimmering form. 


With the knife Leko gave me I sliced into the fruits, separating pits and seeds and stems from flesh. The bits I couldn't eat I gathered together and put back in my bag. If I lived through this, I could figure out what to do with them afterwards.


The pear's skin was crisp and its juice like spun sugar. It immediately started pulling my magic forward, reviving it after the stress of resisting Hester’s attack. The scent of Treelight filled my mouth and nose, pine and cinnamon in the character of its soil. It went past any descriptors I knew but it was unmistakably Treelight.


The apple tasted crisp and sharp. As certain and sure as Leko's arrows, with sweetness hidden within the tartness.


My magic roared at the addition of yet another dead god's power. The Treelight and Marrowgreen Holdings, whatever they'd been before they were magic suffused into the earth, knew I wasn't the one meant to hold their powers. 


They hissed at me and at each other, threatening to tear all of us to pieces. My insides roiled, blood pounding through me as I fought for control and failed.


“The Holdings are too opposed to one another.” Swift's voice echoed softly, though I couldn't fix my eyes well enough to see her. “They'll never balance without a third to make them.”


The two powers suddenly merged and turned on me instead of each other. Dizziness overwhelmed me, threaded with the fear of failing when I’d gotten so close. This wasn’t done. I needed the peach.


Yet if the magics could not destroy one another, they would accept me as a meal. 


Swift came close, positioning herself so my hands were on her back. The contact helped me find myself again, grounding me in the softness of her fleece under my hands and the solid earth under my legs.


My vision cleared. I couldn't waste any more time.


I bit into the peach, chewing as fast as I could. Immediately my magic flailed, like it didn’t know whether to attach this new substance or welcome it in. I took another bite, and another.


The peach was pure Brokenstar, Hester’s influence clear. It latched onto my power with sharp hooks and threatened to consume me. 


“Cora!” Swift cried, distressed.


I imagined the hooks leaving my skin, but that only sent pain through every point of impact.


The world flashed, cold and harsh as an ocean in the middle of winter. Something I couldn’t see pulled me upwards and I spun frantically. I struggled to get free but I couldn’t see anything, and then I was falling...


I stopped, suspended in the air. 


The world was the wrong color. I drifted to the ground and Swift darted to me. She lay next to me, her heartbeat echoing against mine. Both our hearts raced, and I clung to her wool like it kept me from drowning. Finally, finally, our pulses slowed.


The strange colors detached, like ribbons twisted ungracefully together. They were the magics, balancing one another, striking a truce with my own. 


“Honey,” I croaked. I needed to bind the three magics together so Hester could not undo them. My legs wouldn't hold me up. 


Swift made a wordless sound and pushed at my hands with her snout until I realized she was shoving the jar of honey into my hands. I took it gratefully, my fingers shaking so much I almost couldn't get the lid off. 


The honey was thick, layering scents and tastes on my tongue and down my throat until I couldn't think about the warring magics anymore. 


A buzzing sensation rippled through me, then concentrated in my hands. My headache eased and I found myself able to put my weight on one leg, then the other, coming to stand. I looked down at myself. Light poured out of my skin like I'd swallowed a constellation. Like Hester, that night she worked the curse.


The honey balanced out the magics, tying them together with bands strong as steel and sharp as moonlight. It broke them down to what made them strongest and refocused them into my own channel of power.


This was my magic, and this was the ritual I needed. There was nothing Hester could do to stop me.


#




Hester


I WAS SO CAREFUL, DESPITE all the delicacies at the party, to only eat food from Brokenstar. I needed my power as undiluted as possible for what might happen. Arnaud and I had made, among other dishes, a large quantity of honey biscuits, and I was continually nibbling on them.


I was speaking to the Holder of the Oceantear Holding, convincing them it was worth trading between our Holdings directly without getting the merchants involved, when Cora returned to Brokenstar.


It felt like stepping out of shadows, light falling all over me. 


She’d come home. 


“Holder Brokenstar?” Niall, Holder Oceantear, sounded more than a little impatient. 


I’d missed something they said. Brokenstar buzzed with delight, the sense of it flooding through me and making me feel impossibly jubilant. Until I realized the jubilance was the soil welcoming Cora back. I smiled, though this seemed to have little effect on Niall’s stern expression. “I’m sorry, if you’ll excuse me? I believe a new guest is arriving.”


Before they could reply, I glided out of the ballroom and took refuge in a small room at the end of the hallway, locking the door. Better my guests wonder where I was than know what I was doing. 


I shoved my hands against my mouth to keep from screaming. 


Cora was close, already within the Holding, but she was still evading my control. No matter how I pulled, I couldn't access her power. How in the name of every slaughtered god had she managed that?


Julie floated through the door like she owned the place. I frowned but she shrugged, carelessly. Not all of her confidence was real, but more of it was now than ever before. She'd lost some of the fear that had hovered around her the way she hovered around me. She knew as well as I did that Arnaud could tell anyone he liked what he'd learned about us.


“You’re running out of time.” Julie smirked.


Something in her voice made me suspicious. “You know what Cora's doing.”


“And yet you don’t,” Julie mused. “How does that feel?”


“Tell me how she broke my bond on her magic!”


“I wonder,” she said; “you've already killed me. What else can you do if I get in your way?”


My answer was to throw her back into the world of the dead, where I could harness more of her power. Let that show her. As usual her anger made her foolish.


“That again?”


I stared. It hadn't worked. She was still there, her soul still in front of me and not in the other realm. 


It hadn't worked.


“No...” I whispered. What was going on? I examined the magic around her to figure out what she'd done. I could see the connection to the world of the dead, but she'd done something to it. And I couldn't force her through it anymore.


“What did you do?” The passage to the realm of the dead recognized her, showed the marks of more trips than I ever forced her into. She'd done it herself.


I was the one who put in the time and dedicated myself. Yet even dead, Julie managed to make me look weak.


“This is going to end,” she said. 


There was something more complex than triumph in her expression.


I felt sick. What had the ghosts told her?


“This is going to end,” she repeated.


Before I could say anything she was gone, drifting away.


Once, I could have pulled her back. Now I wasn't sure. Everyone was leaving me and I couldn't make them stop.


But not Cora. No, she was coming for me. She shouldn't have been able to get through Brokenstar’s barrier, but she had. The Estate’s celebration still raced under my skin. And her magic was different. It was stronger than I’d ever known it, tinged with influences I didn’t recognize.


She'd be at the house in minutes. I closed my eyes and reached for the Holding, ordering the soil and the bees to help me. Yet their answer was slower than usual, weighted with reluctance. This would not do. 


I went to the kitchens. A jar of rose hip honey was open on one of the counters, used for baking the biscuits. I took a spoonful, and its taste sizzled with lightning, now trapped in my blood and waiting for me to let it loose. 


It was time to welcome Cora home.


#




Cora


THE INSIDE OF THE HOUSE was as sumptuous as ever, generations of Brokenstar's profits transformed into colorful window glass, rich dark wood, and deep violet fabric. Silver ribbons twined around the banister and the doorways, accented with small puffs of gathered pansies, extra touches of decoration for the event. The flowers’ smell was thick, a perfume that would lull me to sleep if I let it. By now the moon was up, and the striations of light through the windows painted the floor purple and puce and sapphire.


The luminescence pouring out of my skin cast strange shadows on everything. I sensed the house breathing, exerting its power over the Holding. I've never been more afraid to be inside it. Swift stayed close to me, her hooves making soft muffled sounds the plush rugs devoured. 


I halted, sensing Hester's presence only seconds before she spoke.


“Cora.”


She stood at the top of the staircase. Small pieces of lapis lazuli graced her ears and neck, and her dress was perfectly fitted, armor and opulence all at once. Her face was composed into a look of true concern and relief. She was as stunning as ever, and as false. That was almost comforting.


I watched her take me in, and caught her surprise at the extent of my power. 


“How did you do this?” Her voice was soft but the angles of the hall carried it to me well enough.


My magic urged me to fight her, recognizing the ritual I'd begun by consuming the fruits and wanting to conclude the spell. Swift leaned into me as if she understood. Something old was tied up in my magic now, something that understood much more than I did. It scared me as much as it strengthened me. It wanted things, and now that I'd woken it up I couldn't turn it away. In my mind I recited the lines of the song and it seemed to soothe my magic, if only for the moment. 


“I saw Arnaud on my way here.”


Her mouth pursed like she was about to ask a question but then she swallowed it.


I said, “It seems he's learned some things.”


“He's not here anymore.” She said by way of an answer. “It's just us now.” She looked out the window, her arms slightly lifting at her sides like she presented the house to me. “Just what Mother always wanted. Her girls, keeping our promise.”


“Her girls,” I said, “and all of your guests. How long until they notice how pathetic you are?” I reached the bottom of the staircase. “How long until Emelia realizes you're nothing and refuses the alliance?”


She flinched. I'd gotten to her, but it didn't mean nearly as much as it would have once.


“Cora!” Julie swooped into view from beyond Hester, looking determined but anxious. Hester gestured intently and Julie froze as if she'd hit a wall, her mouth working soundlessly.


I didn't have the element of surprise anymore. Now I had to hope I was strong enough. I reached into the magic Hester used to stop Julie and wrenched it apart. Julie fell through, toward me, catching herself back into a hover she controlled. “We're not your puppets.” I said. “ You don't get to do this to us anymore.” I waited for Julie to join me but she just hovered between Hester and I. 


“Julie?” What had Hester done to her now?


Julie looked back and forth between us, as if caught in the details of a choice. Why wouldn't she answer me?


“Everything I did was for us.” Hester’s charisma deflated. She was bright with power but it seemed filtered somehow, like she couldn’t access it properly. At the same time I saw the light pouring from me reflected in her eyes, highlighting the lines of her face.


I didn’t think we’d ever looked so much alike. 


“Everything you did was for yourself,” I said.


“I'm not ashamed of fighting for what I deserved.”


We might have been back in Mother's old room, with the words of old books and old stories shaping our choices.


And what was I doing but clinging to lines of a song and hoping they would save me? But song or no, prophecy or no, I wasn't going to let Hester take any more from me. 


So I said, “Neither am I.”


Her face softened. “Cora,” she started descending the stairs. Her movements were graceful yet her hands clung to the banister, mussing the delicate arrangement of silver ribbons wound around the staircase. “It doesn't have to be this hard.” Everything about her voice said that she trusted me, she loved me and wanted me to be safe, and wouldn't I help her keep us safe? 


It was honey, laced with poison. 


“Do you ever stop lying?” My words came out choked and louder than I meant them to. In the corner of my eye Julie looked apprehensive like she was trying to tell me something. Her strange silence tore at my confidence.


“I know I failed you.” Hester’s mouth quirked when she saw the surprise this inspired in me. “This was harder than we ever anticipated, and I am so sorry. I can't give you your magic back. It's too important to keeping Brokenstar.” Her eyes remained stone hard.


“I can't do any of this without my sisters.”


I realized then how cold it was in the hall, too cold even for this late in the night. I sought my new connection to Brokenstar and realized Hester was drawing all the Estate’s warmth toward herself, like she needed it to survive. 


Hester reached the second to last step, still above me. “If we work together we can make Brokenstar stronger than it's ever been, and”—she gave Julie a cursory look—“at least the two of us can have the life we deserve.”


The kind of life where my greatest fear would be the person taking care of me. The kind of life where none dared harm me, for fear of Hester. The kind where I'd be safe in Hester's snare, for as long as I was still useful. 


She smiled. She thought her victory was close. “Cora...”


“No!” I found the magics within me, where I'd forced them to wait. And then I let them loose, to sing with my own.


Tell me, said the sorceress, what have you eaten today?


Those words keyed something older, something that was the hidden tower and the invisible book's ink and the deepest soil and the taste of honey and the sound of bees, wrapped around my heart. Something spoken by so many before me, echoes traveling from their voices into mine. 


Forms came into being, linked to me with a chain of recitation and revenge. Their faces were many and varied, young and old across every gender. Yet all their mouths shaped the same words, the call for this ancient magic to aid us. 


A pear from your garden


The Treelight power roared like a beast lunging on prey. I lived through the memory of the last time these two lands had clashed, so long ago the conflict was mere dust and myth. Yet I gave it just enough to remember entwining with Brokenstar. 


An apple so crisp


Marrowgreen was different. A murmur instead of a bellow, creeping through my words to spread itself. Sap threatened to drown me, yet the more I scratched and swiped at the power, the fiercer it clung to me. 


A peach sweet as nectar


Brokenstar power. Urgent and strong, the soil my bones first learned to sing to. It was almost easy to believe we did deserve this land, because otherwise why would it seem so natural?


Finally, the honey, binding the magics, overcoming their quarrels.


All the sweet bounty you won from the gods.


The world was limned by light in more colors than my eyes understood. The magic cut me open as Hester once had, exposing my power to the world. All three Holdings I’d enlisted could reach inside me and turn me into nothing more than another patch of ground for magic to flourish on, and I would be able to stop it. The magic saw the trueness of me as much as I saw the trueness of it, and I was nothing beside it. 


At the same time, Hester called on her own power, and it answered her like a world’s worth of bees.


She struck just as I did, turning the air bright and harsh. 


It wasn't just that she was powerful, it was that she was practiced. She knew my magic, every weakness and unfinished point and place to strike. As she struck at me I fell, scrambling. I screamed at my magic, ordering the powers of those dead gods to keep going, repeating the lines of the verse until it seemed I'd never heard other words in my life.


Yet as we battered against each other, another light entered our area of combat. Julie. She stared at us, still locked in whatever choice she had to fight her way out of. Betrayal seared me as she just watched. I wanted to beg her to help me, but if I let go of the verse the magics would consume me.


Hester barraged me with lightning, filling my mouth with a sweet taste even as the rest of me was in agony. She tried carving my power out of me, as she had once before, lightning hissing and burning from her hands. I could defend myself now, the Holdings rising up within me to push back on her, but I felt like my bones would shatter under the pressure. 


But I couldn't stop. Stop, and Hester would carve away any chance I had at freedom.


Julie threw herself between us, her expression incomprehensible. But Hester had no attention to spare from me. She too would be consumed by the magic, were it not for practiced control. I wasn't going to get so lucky.


Julie screamed, and my pain-addled mind intertwined that sound with the memory of Hester killing her, echoes sickening me. 


The onslaught of Hester's magic paused, just long enough for me to strike back at her. Magic surged into my mouth and my lungs and my stomach, changing the flow of my blood as it devoured me from inside, turning me into mere fodder as it had the gods when their blood drained into the Holdings.


Lightning struck again and I couldn't see anything anymore. I shouted the lines of my verse with the last gasp of air I could summon.


Honey rose to coat the world, and everything was sweetness and ice, until there was nothing left to know. 


#




Julie


SHE’S THE ONE YOU NEED.


The ghosts’ voices floated alongside me, for all that I wasn’t in their world. 


Take her.


Cora was so strong. She’d done it. I wanted to tell her how proud I was, but I couldn’t. I had to destroy her instead. 


Power like nothing I’d ever seen coursed through her. Yet it hid a weakness, like my grandmother’s once had. 


You will lose your chance.


I jerked as the ghosts briefly showed me Faria again, taking Aurelie’s body. 


You could join us instead. Anticipation and longing thickened their voices. They wanted me to fail, so they could draw me under and never let me go.


With a scream, I smashed through the fog they worked around me.


My sisters were caught in the heat of their battle, their fury matched. Yet the ghosts still hovered near, undisturbed by the warring magics.


I saw the desperate strain in both my sisters’ magics. This would end soon, and one of them would die. 


I’m sorry, Cora.


I reached for her magic. If I could pour myself through the weakness the ritual caused, her body would be mine. 


Another strike of magic vibrated through me, confusing my movement. In the brief respite that followed I realized I’d touched not Cora’s magic, but Hester’s. 


I froze between my sisters, despite the force of magic crashing through me from both sides. 


Maybe it was all the honey Hester had eaten. Maybe it was Arnaud leaving, or another consequence of the rot magic she’d worked. Maybe it was pure desperation.


But there was a new vulnerability within Hester’s power. 


You are ours now! The ghosts shrieked, clawing with hundreds of hands, pulling me back to them for the final time. 


I threw myself toward Hester. 



OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Twenty-Six









 




Chapter Twenty-Six




Cora


I woke to warmth and a soft, agitated sound. Swift stood directly over me, face furrowed in concern, her nose touching mine.


I was alive.


I sat up and Swift leaned against me in her version of a hug. I wrapped my arms around her. Every impact was startling because it meant...


It meant I won.


The hall gaped around me like a hungry mouth, yet I'd escaped its teeth. Yet there was something, a force that wasn't sound but more like a sensation on my skin, coating the world.


It was Brokenstar, calling to me.


Calling only to me. 


That was when I saw Hester. She lay on the ground, near the other end of the room. She wasn't moving. I knew I should go to her, but I didn't. 


“You don’t owe her anything,” Swift rumbled.


Then Hester started moving. She didn't open her eyes but she made a small sound, shifting her upper body like she was in pain. 


But Brokenstar didn’t recognize her, didn’t reach toward her with its power. 


Not knowing what I'd find, I went to my sister. 


#




Julie


THE AIR WAS COLD, SCENTED with lavender, and heavy like an embrace. Or like it wanted to kill me. I hurt all over, the pains sharp and scattered.


My face felt strange. I realized I could close my hands in on themselves, feel the pads of my fingers touching my palms. I could touch things. I raised my hands toward my face, feeling the curve of my jaw and my lips, dry, and my eyes, swollen.


I lay on the floor of the house's front hall. Attempting to lift my head sent dizziness pouring through me and I lay back again. Glass was scattered everywhere, the cause of the pain and the reason for my blood tinting so many of the pieces the red of fresh cherry juice.


The windows were destroyed, as though the gods had risen and punched through them in anger. Mere fragments of glass remained in the windows, wavering and unsteady in the breeze.


It was then I realized that the entire time, the world in front of me hadn't changed. It hadn't moved to a different time.


The world was blessedly static.


Everything seemed less perfect now, the angles and curves not the impossible masterworks they had seemed once. They were still beautiful, but it was like the veil they'd worn had been ripped apart, showing the messier, truer thing supporting Brokenstar.


Suddenly there was a hand in front of my face, similarly streaked with blood, and shaking. Cora.


She stood over me, her face worn, her eyes shadowed like storm clouds. I took her hand, gasping at the sensation of human contact again. I didn't go through her. We merely touched as she helped me to my feet. None of this felt anything like I recalled. 


Having a body again was overwhelming. I bit down on the inside of my lip hard enough I drew blood. I could do that now. That pain—slaughtered gods I could feel pain again—served as small respite from my shock. 


I had to know. Feeling was getting me nowhere. I knelt, wobbling as I did so, staring into one of the larger pieces of glass on the floor. Hester's face looked back at me. 


Slowly, Cora knelt in front of me. Her expression was uncertain, and I realized she didn't know who I was.


“It's me,” I said, before shaking my head and feeling muzzy. “It's...”


“Julie,” we said, her several seconds behind me.


I remembered, the way you sometimes remember something so old and useless you can't imagine why your mind bothered keeping it around. I remembered being younger, young enough that I still thought that if I was angry enough at everything in the world that made me angry, it would stop. I was jealous of Hester, because everything always went her way just because she was pretty and because she was charming and because no matter what people thought about our family they always seem to find a little bit of grace to grant when it was her. I hated her even more for the way people treated her. So many times I'd thought if I could just be her instead of me, everything would be so much easier. I'd be more confident, and more capable. 


Well now, here I was. The beautiful one. So why did I feel less capable than ever?


Cora's voice sounded like it had to fight its way out of her. “You had to choose between us, didn’t you.”


Guilt flooded me. She could hate me for it ever being a choice, and I'd deserve it.


But then Cora put her arms around me, holding me close as she maneuvered us onto a patch of floor that wasn't covered in glass. I shuddered, remembering seeing her hold my corpse, as if she could bring me back to life if she only held on tight enough. 


In a way, I suppose she had. 


I didn't want to let go. But there was something else I wanted even more. I pulled away from her, heading back to that large piece of glass so I could look at my reflection again. That was when I noticed the sheep, standing near us like some kind of bodyguard and staring at me like she thought I was about to con her out of everything she owned. It was a disconcerting look to receive from a sheep.


I looked at the shard of glass but didn’t pick it up. I had to worry about things like cutting myself now. I couldn't just barrel through anything that presented itself in front of me and know I'd come out on the other side, untouched and unable to touch perpetually.


My throat tightened, and I forced back panic. Hester’s face still looked back at me. Now it always would.


This was somehow the most honest version of her I’d ever seen. Though it had little to do with her, and even less to do with honesty.


Now I had to make my own truth out of what remained. 


#




Cora


MY SISTER WAS MY SISTER, as much as ever. Hester's form, with Julie's soul inside.


“What...” I swallowed, holding her hands in mine, the contact incongruous with the face those hands were connected to. “What happened to her?” I had no idea what I wanted the answer to be. 


“I don't know,” Julie admitted. Her voice was no longer Hester's but it wasn't truly Julie's either, rather a weird fusion I didn't know how to react to. “I don't know where...she went.”


She. Hester's soul, the part of her beyond her beauty. The part that hurt us so much.


I didn't know what to think. I couldn't stop staring at this person who was somehow both of my sisters at once. Surprise made me almost numb, but horror lurked in my mind. At what Julie had done, and what I’d done...


Yet we’d survived. We were both still here. Though I didn’t know how whole either of us was anymore. 


“I think Brokenstar has accepted you,” my sister murmured.


“You can still see the magic?” I didn't have to ask to know she couldn't sense the constant thrumming. That was Brokenstar's heartbeat, and that was only for me.


She nodded. “I can see all of it.” She shivered and broke our grip, freeing her hands to rub against her arms. I didn't know what time it was but the sun had not yet returned, and the hall was still cold.


A sound startled me and I looked behind us. 


“Brokenstar’s holding them back.” Julie murmured. 


What must have been every guest from Hester's party stood at the far end of the hall, just beyond a thin veil of magic. They all stared at us yet none of them came any closer, unwilling to cross some line I couldn’t see. I heard a few quiet arguments among them. I didn't know how long they’d been there, or how much they'd seen.


Swift said, “They will want answers.”


Julie’s eyes widened, except it was like seeing Hester surprised, which was odd all on its own. “The sheep talks?” 


I nodded. “Her name is Swift.”


Looking no less surprised, my sister inclined her head toward Swift, who looked back at her approvingly. 


The collection of Rulers staring at us might have been the subject of another tapestry. Yet their attention was not fixed on gods to slaughter, but on us. 


I asked Brokenstar for silence, to shroud our words from those who would listen. Silence locked into place around the three of us, and only then did I realize how much power I’d just casually expended. I was faintly woozy and I didn't think I'd be able to push much further, but I could last a few more moments. I turned back to my sister.


“They're all still here.” She sounded scared. “How are we supposed to explain this to them?”


“We'll figure something out.”


Her dubious glance startled me into a smile. It was Julie's expression mapped onto the lines of Hester's face. It was disconcerting and comforting at the same time. I imagined it would be that way for a while.


Swift pressed her nose into my palm. It helped, a little. 


There was so much to be done.


My sister and I went to the Holding Rulers, to tell them a story.



OceanofPDF.com

Epilogue









 




Epilogue



Spells of honey and midnight are more common than stories would have you believe.


Beware those who cast spells, and those who tell stories. Beware the sweetness, and the chains, both would wrap you in. 


Let none but yourself choose your fate.


Please, do not forget my sisters.


THE END


––––––––




ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS


THANK YOU TO RACHAEL, Kaylene, and Allison, who read multiple early drafts of this book. It’s been a long time, but this one’s finally here!


To K.B. Spangler, whose edits helped me sharpen the book into just the right shape.


To Arden Powell, for creating a cover that makes me absolutely cackle with joy.


To Annika Barranti Klein, whose copyedits kept my commas in line.


To the Sinensomancers, beloved friends. The first draft of this book took shape while we all sat around typing in a house with opinionated swans nearby. I would not have made it through the intervening years without you. 


To Keith, always and for everything.


To Ben, faithful walking companion and Editorial Hound.


And to you, the reader. If you enjoyed this book, please consider leaving a review or recommending it to a friend!



OceanofPDF.com

Also By Devan Barlow
    
  






  



  	

	    

	      
Also by Devan Barlow

	    
      
	    

          
	      
Curses and Curtains

          
        
          
	          
An Uncommon Curse

          
        
          
	          
An Uncertain Murder

          
        
          
	          
An Unexpected Feast

          
        
      
      
	    

          
	      
Standalone

          
        
          
	          
Foolish Hopes and Spilled Entrails: Retellings

          
        
          
	          
Shells For Hearts: Retellings

          
        
          
	          
Honey and Harm (Coming Soon)

          
        
      
      
    
	    

	      
	      
Watch for more at Devan Barlow’s site.

	      
	    
	  
    


OceanofPDF.com

About the Author
    
  






  



  	

    
	    
About the Author
        

            
Devan Barlow's short fiction and poetry have appeared in a variety of anthologies and magazines. When not writing she reads voraciously, drinks tea, and thinks about fairy tales and sea monsters.

        
    
	    

	      
	      
Read more at Devan Barlow’s site.

	      
	    
	  
    


OceanofPDF.com

Cover Page
    
  






  



    

        

          
Honey and Harm

        
        
        

          
Devan Barlow

        
        

          
Published by Devan Barlow, 2026.

        
    


OceanofPDF.com