Table of Contents
FROM THE PAGES OF ETHAN FROME AND SELECTED STORIES
Title Page
Copyright Page
EDITH WHARTON
THE WORLD OF EDITH WHARTON AND ETHAN FROME
Introduction
ETHAN FROME
INTRODUCTION BY EDITH WHARTON
ETHAN FROME
CHAPTER ONE
CHAPTER TWO
CHAPTER THREE
CHAPTER FOUR
CHAPTER FIVE
CHAPTER SIX
CHAPTER SEVEN
CHAPTER EIGHT
CHAPTER NINE
THE PRETEXT
I.
II.
III.
IV.
V.
AFTERWARD
I.
II.
III.

IV.
V.
THE LEGEND
I.
II.
III.
IV.
V.
VI.
XINGU
I.
II.
III.
ENDNOTES
COMMENTS & QUESTIONS
FOR FURTHER READING

FROM THE PAGES OF ETHAN FROME AND
SELECTED STORIES
If you know Starkfield, Massachusetts, you know the post-office. If you know
the post-office you must have seen Ethan Frome drive up to it, drop the reins
on his hollow-backed bay and drag himself across the brick pavement to the
white colonnade: and you must have asked who he was. (from Ethan Frome,
page 8)
It was only when she drew toward her last illness, and his cousin Zenobia
Pierce came over from the next valley to help him nurse her, that human
speech was heard again in the house. (from Ethan Frome, page 41)
Zeena came into the room with her dragging down-at-the-heel step, and
quietly took her accustomed seat between them. (from Ethan Frome, page 69)
The sled started with a bound, and they flew on through the dusk, gathering
smoothness and speed as they went, with the hollow night opening out below
them and the air singing by like an organ. Mattie sat perfectly still, but as they
reached the bend at the foot of the hill, where the big elm thrust out a deadly
elbow, he fancied that she shrank a little closer. (from Ethan Frome, page 89)
There was a last instant when the air shot past him like millions of fiery wires;
and then the elm ... (from Ethan Frome, page 93)
“The way they are now, I don’t see’s there’s much difference between the
Fromes up at the farm and the Fromes down in the graveyard.” (from Ethan
Frome, page 99)
“I’m so bewildered by this new development—by his using you all this time
as a pretext—that I really don’t know where to turn for light on the mystery
—” (from “The Pretext,” page 130)

Across the level tracery of the gardens, it sent her, from open windows and
hospitably smoking chimneys, the look of some warm human presence, of a
mind slowly ripened on a sunny wall of experience. (from “Afterward,” page
149)
“You won’t know till long, long afterward.” (from “Afterward,” page 167)
Mrs. Ballinger is one of the ladies who pursue Culture in bands, as though it
were dangerous to meet alone. (from “Xingu,” page 203)
“Knowing how engrossing the subject is, you will understand how it happens
that the club has let everything else go to the wall for the moment. Since we
took up Xingu I might almost say—were it not for your books—that nothing
else seems to us worth remembering.” (from “Xingu,” page 214)
“I fancy Osric Dane hardly expected to take a lesson in Xingu at Hillbridge!”
(from “Xingu,” page 220)

Published by Barnes & Noble Books
122 Fifth Avenue
New York, NY 10011
www.barnesandnoble.com/classics
“The Pretext” first appeared in Scribner’s Magazine in August 1908; “After
ward,” in Century Magazine in January 1910; and “The Legend,” in Scribner’s
in March 1910. Ethan Frome was first published in 1911. Written in 1911,
“Xingu” finally appeared in Xingu and Other Stories (1916), one
of eleven collections of Wharton’s short stories.
Published in 2004 by Barnes & Noble Classics with new Introduction, Notes,
Biography, Chronology, Comments & Questions, and for Further Reading.
Introduction, Notes, and For Further Reading
Copyright © 2004 by Kent P. Ljungquist.
Note on Edith Wharton, The World of Edith Wharton and Ethan Frome,
and Comments & Questions
Copyright © 2004 by Barnes & Noble, Inc.
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or
transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including
photocopy, recording, or any information storage and retrieval system,
without the prior written permission of the publisher.
Barnes & Noble Classics and the Barnes & Noble Classics colophon
are trademarks of Barnes & Noble, Inc.
Ethan Frome and Selected Stories
ISBN-13: 978-1-59308-090-7 ISBN-10:1-59308-090-5
eISBN : 978-1-411-43215-4
LC Control Number 2003113226
Produced and published in conjunction with:
Fine Creative Media, Inc.
322 Eighth Avenue
New York, NY 10001
Michael J. Fine, President and Publisher

Printed in the United States of America
QM
5 7 9 10 8 6 4

EDITH WHARTON
Edith Newbold Jones was born January 24, 1862, into such wealth and
privilege that her family inspired the phrase “keeping up with the Joneses.”
The youngest of three children, Edith spent her early years touring Europe
with her parents and, upon the family’s return to the United States, enjoyed a
privileged childhood in New York and Newport, Rhode Island. Edith’s
creativity and talent soon became obvious: By the age of eighteen she had
written a novella, Fast and Loose (as well as witty reviews of it), and
published poetry in the Atlantic Monthly.
After a failed engagement, Edith married a wealthy sportsman, Edward
Wharton. Despite similar backgrounds and a shared taste for travel, the
marriage was not a success. Many of Wharton’s novels chronicle unhappy
marriages, in which the demands of love and vocation often conflict with the
expectations of society. Wharton’s first major novel, The House of Mirth,
published in 1905, enjoyed considerable literary success. Ethan Frome
appeared six years later, solidifying Wharton’s reputation as an important
novelist. Often in the company of her close friend Henry James, Wharton
mingled with some of the most famous writers and artists of the day,
including F. Scott Fitzgerald, André Gide, Sinclair Lewis, Jean Cocteau, and
Jack London.
In 1913 Edith divorced Edward. She lived mostly in France for the
remainder of her life. When World War I broke out, she organized hostels for
refugees, worked as a fund-raiser, and wrote for American publications from
battlefield frontlines. She was awarded the French Legion of Honor for her
courage and distinguished work.
The Age of Innocence, a novel about New York in the 1870s, earned
Wharton the Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 1921—the first time the award had
been bestowed on a woman. Wharton traveled throughout Europe to
encourage young authors. She also continued to write, lying in her bed every
morning, as she had always done, dropping each newly penned page on the
floor to be collected and arranged when she was finished. Wharton suffered a
stroke and died on August 11, 1937. She is buried in the American Cemetery
in Versailles, France.

THE WORLD OF EDITH WHARTON AND
ETHAN FROME
1862 Edith Newbold Jones is born January 24 in New York City, the last
of three children. Her parents are wealthy and socially well-
connected.
1866 The Jones family leaves for Europe, where they will live for the
next six years.
1870 In Germany, Edith falls ill with typhoid fever and for a time hovers
between life and death. When she recovers, the family moves to
Florence. Edith begins writing stories, which she recites to her
family.
1872 The Joneses return to America, where they live in New York City
and Newport, Rhode Island.
1877 Edith finishes a novella, Fast and Loose, which will be published a
century later, in 1977. Henry James’s novel The American appears.
1878 Edith’s mother pays to publish a collection of Edith’s poems,
Verses.
1879 Edith is presented to society in New York City.
1880 A wealthy young man, Henry Leyden Stevens, proposes to
Wharton. The Atlantic Monthly magazine publishes five of
Wharton’s poems.
1881 Henry James’s novel Portrait of a Lady appears.
1882 Edith’s father dies in the south of France. Edith and her mother
return to the United States to find that Henry Stevens’s mother
disapproves of the engagement. It is broken off, and the Jones
women return to France.
1883 While summering in Bar Harbor, Maine, Edith agrees to marry

Edward Wharton, an independently wealthy sports man from
Massachusetts.
1885 Edith and Edward wed and over the next several years divide their
time between Europe, New York, and Newport.
1889 Wharton’s poems appear in Scribner’s Magazine and the Atlantic
Monthly.
1891 Wharton’s first published story, “Mrs. Manstey’s View,” appears in
Scribner’s Magazine.
1897 The Decoration of Houses appears; it is a nonfiction work on
interior design written by Wharton and architect Ogden Codman, Jr.
1898 Henry James’s The Turn of the Screw is published.
1901 The Whartons begin to build The Mount, their summer home near
Lenox, Massachusetts. Edith’s mother dies in Paris.
1905 The House of Mirth is published. The novel quickly becomes one of
the best-selling books of the year; its popularity solid ifies
Wharton’s reputation as a major novelist. Wharton and Henry
James develop a close friendship. George Bernard Shaw’s play
Major Barbara is performed in London.
1908 Wharton publishes A Motor-Flight through France, in which she
recounts her travels with her husband, Edward, and Henry James.
She meets Morton Fullerton, an American journalist living in
London who is a friend of Henry James, and the two begin a
passionate though short-lived love affair.
1911 Wharton’s Ethan Frome is published; it was inspired by the New
England life the author witnessed near her home in Lenox. After
first meeting him in 1909, Wharton visits art historian Bernard
Berenson in Italy.
1913 Edith and Edward divorce. Wharton moves to France, where she
will spend most of the rest of her life. Willa Cather’s O Pioneers! is
published.
1914 Wharton travels to Tunisia and Algiers, then undertakes relief
efforts during World War I. She finds homes for hun dreds of

Belgian orphans and raises money for refugees.
1916 Wharton receives the French Legion of Honor award for her war
relief activities. Henry James dies.
1917 T. S. Eliot’s book of poetry Prufrock and Other Observations
appears.
1918 Willa Cather publishes My Ántonia.
1920 The Age of Innocence, a novel about New York society, is pub
lished to great success.
1921 Wharton becomes the first woman to be awarded the Pulitzer Prize
for fiction, which she receives for The Age of Innocence. Eugene
O‘Neill’s play Anna Christie opens in New York City.
1922 T. S. Eliot’s The Waste Land is published.
1923 Yale University awards Wharton an honorary doctorate. Edna St.
Vincent Millay receives the Pulitzer Prize for poetry.
1924 Wharton publishes a collection of novellas and short stories as Old
New York.
1925 Sinclair Lewis publishes Arrowsmith, which he dedicates to
Wharton. Fitzgerald’s The Great Gatsby is published; the author
sends Wharton an inscribed copy. Gertrude Stein pub lishes The
Making of Americans. Virginia Woolf publishes Mrs. Dalloway.
1926 Ernest Hemingway publishes The Sun Also Rises.
1928 Edward Wharton dies. Poet Carl Sandburg’s Good Morning,
America is published.
1930 Wharton is elected to the American Academy of Arts and Letters.
She continues to write, although her health is fail ing. Robert Frost’s
Collected Poems is published.
1933 Wharton publishes Human Nature, a collection of short stories.
1934 Wharton publishes “Roman Fever” in Liberty magazine for the
then-astronomical sum of $3,000; one of her best-known short
stories, it is based on her travels in Italy. She continues to write and

publish stories and novels. A Backward Glance, an autobiography,
is published.
1937 After a severe stroke, Edith Wharton dies on August 11. She is
buried in Versailles, France.

INTRODUCTION
Known as a chronicler of the moneyed and propertied classes of New York
City, Edith Wharton (1862-1937) was born during the Civil War and grew up
in a traditional urban world of horse-drawn carriages and impressive
brownstone residences. Her parents, Lucretia Rhinelander Jones and George
Frederic Jones, came from socially prominent backgrounds. Edith thus
represented a world of apparently sedate family life that extended back
several generations. In her fiction she explored the manners, values, and
codes of this complex social setting, and the conflicts her characters faced as
the tides of change swept the United States in the late nineteenth and early
twentieth centuries. In the years preceding her major works of long fiction,
she established a solid reputation as an accomplished short story writer. Her
interest in New York’s upper-crust society eventually led to a series of
successful novels, most notably The House of Mirth (1905), The Custom of
the Country (1913), and The Age of Innocence (1920).
Respectful of the education, manners, and good breeding that an upbringing
in an old New York family afforded, Wharton was also sensitive to the
cultural attractions and social traditions of Europe. Like her friend and
sometimes mentor Henry James (1843-1916), she traveled widely in Europe,
making her first trip to the Continent between 1866 and 1872, soon after the
Civil War. After her marriage to Bostonian Edward “Teddy” Wharton in
1885, she and her husband traveled to Europe annually, usually from late
winter to early spring, when they returned to their cottage on the family estate
at Newport, Rhode Island. She conceived some of her more significant works
in Europe, and she wrote extensively about life in England and on the
Continent. If this exposure to Europe refined the historical and cultural
awareness that her polished New York upbringing ingrained in her, she was
also aware of the price that could be paid for living in culturally and
economically impoverished surroundings. Wharton was an analyst of the
private relations between men and women in financially secure families and
stable social networks, but she was also fascinated by the deprivations of
fragile people in the remote villages of New England. Although New York
would continue to be the dominant force in her creative work, she devoted
considerable attention in stories and novels to rural New England settings and
characters.

Wharton’s New England was not a purely imaginative creation; she knew
firsthand the coastal towns of the region, having spent extended periods
during her childhood and adult years in Newport and in Bar Harbor, Maine. In
her fairly late story “The Little Gentleman,” first published in 1926 as “The
Young Gentleman,” she attempted to capture the atmosphere of the fictional
seaport town of Harpledon, somewhere between Salem and Newburyport on
the New England coast. As recounted by one of Harpledon’s inhabitants, the
primary characteristic of this coastal town was its resistance to change and
progress: “How we resisted modern improvements, ridiculed fashionable
‘summer resorts,’ fought trolley-lines, overhead wires and telephones, wrote
to the papers denouncing municipal vandalism and bought up (those that
could afford it) one little heavy-roofed house after another, as the land-
speculators threatened them.” In this story as well as others, Wharton would
penetrate the sometimes horrifying reality behind the quaint antiquity of local
surroundings.
However charming the surfaces of the remote towns and villages,
quaintness and rusticity were hardly the characteristics Wharton explored in
other works about New England, the object of her intense if intermittent
attention from the 1890s until the later years of her career. The sleepy town in
Wharton’s Summer (1917) is North Dormer, a “village of the hills, abandoned
of men, left apart by railway, trolley, telegraph, and all the forces that link life
to life in modern communities.” Wharton’s treatment of New England settings
was varied, and her attitude toward the region complex. With regard to
characters, she portrayed the working poor and rustic natives as well as proud
aristocrats. As regards settings, she developed provincial seacoast locales,
poverty-stricken farms, and the pseudo-sophisticated culture of university
towns. Whatever the range of setting and characterization, the primary
characteristics that seem to dominate Ethan Frome (1911) and Summer (the
book she called her “hot Ethan”) are isolation, remoteness, and barrenness.
Reflecting an interest in New England that was developed over the course of
nearly two decades, she came to a general conclusion about the region in a
letter written to a friend: “This grim New England country, for all its beauty,
gives nothing to compensate for the complete mental starvation.”
In Newport she devoted considerable time to remodeling the cottage and
grounds of her family estate, activities reflecting an interest in house design
and landscape architecture developed in the early years of her marriage. Her
keen visual sense led to her first book, The Decoration of Houses (1897), and
she applied an appreciation of form, balance, and proportion to many of her
literary and architectural creations. In 1899 she visited Lenox, Massachusetts,

spent the summer and fall of 1900 there, and in 1901 finished negotiations for
the purchase of a 113-acre plot of land that extended to the neighboring town
of Lee. She modeled the property after an estate in England, and in 1902 she
moved into the Mount, named after the home of a Revolutionary War
ancestor. She returned there annually until 1908. As it was for Wharton,
western Massachusetts had been a favorite vacation spot and summer retreat
for artists, writers, and members of the intelligentsia since the early decades
of the nineteenth century.
In her autobiography, Wharton referred to the estate as “my first real home,”
a place that offered an “escape to the real country” (Wharton, A Backward
Glance, pp. 124-125; see “For Further Reading”). In its guise as a retreat it
presented a relaxed setting for walks, gardening, and frequent automobile
rides through the Berkshire countryside. She entertained visitors there, among
them her close friend and confidant Walter Berry, who assisted her with
revisions of Ethan Frome. James Edward Johnson, curator of the
Metropolitan Museum of Art, also visited, and Sara and Charles Eliot Norton
(1827-1908) came from their nearby home in Ashfield. When not entertaining
companions or improving the house and grounds, Wharton pursued her
serious literary projects. Since her time away from New York usually lasted
from June to December, she wrote contentedly: “The country quiet stimulated
my creative zeal” (A Backward Glance, p. 125). The Mount clearly occupied
a special place in Wharton’s personal and imaginative life. As she later noted:
“only at the Mount ... I was truly happy” (p. 149).
If Wharton developed a sensitivity to the quiet beauty of the New England
landscape, she was even more intrigued by the region’s historical evolution
(or devolution) and its literary past. By 1900 New England’s once flourishing
maritime industry was past its prime, and many of its seaports presented
images of economic and physical decay. Social and demographic changes had
accelerated the movement of people westward and from the remote rural areas
to the larger or mid-size New England cities and towns, leaving the smaller
villages even further behind in relative prosperity. Changes in patterns of
transportation did little but reinforce the varying chances for potential success
and economic opportunity among inhabitants of these different localities.
Proud New Yorkers would have accepted the claim that at the end of the
century the city’s cultural enhancements had matched its economic progress,
and that New York had eclipsed Boston as the nation’s literary center.
Wharton would have been aware that the first fateful meeting between
Nathaniel Hawthorne (1804-1864) and Herman Melville (1819-1891)
occurred in the Berkshires. Several of their charged encounters took place in

“the little red house” in Lenox that the former occupied following his
departure from Salem and after the publication of The Scarlet Letter (1850).
She would have known that Hawthorne’s stay in the Berkshires marked the
period of composition for The House of the Seven Gables (1851), his romance
about the cold and paralyzing hold that the dead hand of the past has on
subsequent generations. In his preface to that work Hawthorne disclaimed a
rigid adherence to rendering an actual New England locality, but in noting an
author’s faithfulness to his creation, maintained that he might “manage his
atmospherical medium as to bring out or mellow the lights and deepen and
enrich the shadows of the picture.” In his volume The Snow Image and Other
Twice-Told Tales (1851), Hawthorne included a tale with the title character
Ethan Brand, a name with potential resonance for Wharton’s own New
England stories. (Ethan Frome is a character literally “branded” with a red
gash across his forehead, one of the effects of the “smash-up,” and one of
Wharton’s Starkfield stories, “Bewitched” [1925], contains characters named
Brand.) If Wharton’s tendency was to discount the influence on her work of
American, and especially of New England, writers in favor of their European
counterparts, several critics have nevertheless discerned Hawthornean echoes,
not the least of which is her use in Ethan Frome of the name Zenobia, which
Hawthorne used for a character in The Blithedale Romance (1852). The use of
Puritan names (such as Ethan, Jotham, and Endurance), the impact of the past
on the present, the tension between cold isolation and the warmth of
community—a range of Wharton’s themes and techniques seem to derive
from Hawthorne. This is a general debt she seemed to acknowledge in her
autobiography when she counseled “New Englanders who had for years
sought reflection of local life” (A Backward Glance, p. 294) in the pages of
other authors not to forget Hawthorne’s signal contributions in that vein.
In the introduction to a student’s edition of Ethan Frome, published eleven
years after the novel’s first appearance, Wharton claimed that her knowledge
of New England village life derived from firsthand observation and
experience. She was referring to her initial visits to the region, her
establishment of a home there, and her fairly frequent sojourns across the
countryside of western Massachusetts. As noted in the reminiscence of a
friend who visited her during her days in Lenox:
One windy afternoon we were driving in the country near Lenox, and on
the top of a hill on the left of the road stood a battered two-story house,
unpainted, with a neglected door-yard tenanted by hens and chickens,
and a few bedraggled children sitting on the stone steps before the open
door. “It is about a place like that,” said Mrs. Wharton, “that I mean to

write a story. Only last week I went to the village meeting-house in
Lenox and sat there for an hour alone, trying to think what such lives
must be, and some day I shall write a story about it” (quoted in
Lubbock, Portrait of Edith Wharton, pp. 22-23).
If this image of a neglected, decaying farmhouse provided some initial
inspiration for her story, Wharton later claimed that previous literary
renderings of the region had presented only a partial picture that failed to
capture the harsh effects of its forbidding landscape. Previous writers may
have accurately documented the region’s botanical and dialectal traits—that
is, its plants and trees, and the vernacular speech of its inhabitants—but
Wharton sensed that what she called the “outcropping granite” had been
overlooked. (Extending her figure of stone emerging from native soil, she
wittily commented on the taciturn demeanor of New Englanders, scarcely
more articulate than the cold, hard outcroppings under their feet.) While not
mentioning the names of these writers in her introduction, Wharton clearly
had in mind representatives of the New England local-color genre, who had
made the region and its customs a primary focus in their fiction. According to
literary historians, the local-color movement was a vigorous force in
American letters from roughly 1870 to 1910; but it was sometimes
pigeonholed by its critics as a “woman’s genre,” exclusively tied to private
domestic matters. Although its primary practitioners—Sarah Orne Jewett
(1849-1909), Mary Wilkins Freeman (1852-1930), and Rose Terry Cooke
(1827-1892)—often wrote pungently and critically about their region and its
inhabitants, critics, when not questioning the movement’s sentimental
tendencies, sometimes reduced the genre to an ornamental or descriptive
mode of writing.
Sensitive to the criticism that she was attempting to portray a region from
an outsider’s perspective (and thus a less expert one than a native’s), Wharton
later took pains to underscore the accuracy of her rendering. As she noted in
her autobiography, “ ‘Ethan Frome’ was written after I spent ten years in the
hill-region of New England where the scene is laid, during which years I had
come to know well the aspect, the dialect, and mental and moral attitude of
the hill-people” (A Backward Glance, p. 296). Casting a backward glance on a
local-color movement that had perhaps run its course, she aimed to capture a
more austere atmosphere than had been presented in the works of some of her
predecessors. “For years I had wanted to draw life as it really was in the
derelict mountain villages of New England, a life even in my time and a
thousandfold more a generation earlier, utterly unlike that seen through the
rose-coloured spectacles of my predecessors, Mary Wilkins and Sarah Orne

Jewett” (p. 293). Wharton clearly wanted to leave her readers with the
impression that her portrayal of New England life was based on patient
observation and careful study. Several years before Ethan Frome, in fact, she
published The Fruit of the Tree (1907), a long novel of marital and class
tensions in a New England mill town. In order to assure accuracy in that
novel, she visited the mills in North Adams in western Massachusetts.
Wharton tended to measure her literary achievements against those of male
writers; in her introduction, she further distinguished her efforts from
previous treatments of New England by discounting her role as a mere
recorder of the more superficial or external features of her setting. She thus
emphasized the steps in the construction of Ethan Frome—that is, her role as
a conscious literary craftsman. She noted that her initial conception derived
from an academic exercise intended to polish her proficiency in the French
language. Developed in Paris in 1907, the French sketch of “Ethan Frome”
contained three characters (the male was named Hart) and achieved a length
that encompassed two scenes, or vignettes, that survived in the published
version. The fragment contained a triangular relationship among a husband,
his sick wife, and the wife’s niece, to whom the “Ethan-character” is
attracted; but it lacked the structure that would give focus as well as depth to
the narrative. Wharton eventually hit upon the device of a storyteller, but she
did not choose one steeped in the lore and history of New England. Rather
than a character like the herbalist and healer Mrs. Todd in Jewett’s The
Country of the Pointed Firs (1896), a native authority on the region’s legends
and values, Wharton chose someone from outside New England to narrate the
story—a looker-on, an observer.
In her desire for “roundness”—Wharton seemed to resort recurrently to the
terminology of the “plastic arts” or visual media—she would supplement the
narrator’s perspective with those of her minor characters. The fresh, acute
perspective derived from the narrator’s growing insight and awareness would
compensate for what he lacked in inside background knowledge of the Frome
household. While the device of an observer might lend “an air of artificiality”
to a tale of sophisticated characters, Wharton noted, this defect might be
mitigated if the narrator brought a sophisticated perspective to a tale of simple
people. Her narrator would thus serve as a kind of intermediary between the
reticent and reserved villagers and Wharton’s readers, giving “voice” to
characters nearly inarticulate or resigned to silence.
Wharton’s use of an observer eases the reader’s entry into Ethan’s story. In
the opening of the novel the narrator recaptures his first arresting glimpse of
Wharton’s central character, when he had been struck by Frome’s

physiognomy and bearing. Harmon Gow, who had driven the stage between
Starkfield and other towns in the region’s pre-trolley days, provides further
background on Frome. From Gow the narrator learns of Ethan’s age and of
his reluctance to escape Starkfield because of obligations to care for his
failing parents. The narrator also hears not only Gow’s chilling comment on
Ethan’s endurance—“Ethan’ll likely touch a hundred”—but also his opinion
that Ethan’s stay in Starkfield constituted a kind of imprisonment: “Guess he’s
been in Starkfield too many winters. Most of the smart ones get away” (p. 9).
The narrator’s interview of Gow develops the tale only “as far as his [Gow‘s]
mental and moral reach permitted” (p. 10), and he hopes that the more
educated, sophisticated Mrs. Ned Hale, with whom he is staying, will provide
greater insight. He cannot cut through her reserve and reticence, however,
even though she has more firsthand knowledge of the aftermath of the
accident that scarred Frome’s forehead. Implying a suffering too great for
words, her only comment is: “It was awful” (p. 12).
The narrator infers that he must piece together Ethan’s story from different
sources, and that consequently each retelling will be a little bit different. The
meaning of the story, he infers, will be found even in gaps or silences after he
has accumulated a succession of hints, suggestions, and clues that surround
Frome. For all the narrator’s curiosity about the Frome household, this
technique gives his telling an elliptical effect, a sense that much has been left
unsaid or not fully articulated. When the winter snows prevent the narrator’s
return to Starkfield after Frome volunteers to drive him to his business
appointment, he is granted a night’s shelter at the farm. Enveloped by the
severe storm, the narrator experiences a “soft universal diffusion more
confusing than the gusts and eddies of the morning.” In the “formless night”
his disorientation temporarily intensifies, and “even [Ethan‘s] sense of
direction, and the bay’s homing instinct, finally ceased to serve” (p. 17). The
narrator’s perplexity and bewilderment imply a need to reorient himself, to
jolt himself, so to speak, into a perspective that demands clearer sight and
more acute insight. It is at this point that Wharton effects the transition back
to the period of Ethan’s youth. Although some critics have quarreled with the
subjective nature of her narrator’s perceptions, there seems little doubt that
Wharton intended his narrative to be more than one version of events among
others. Accordingly, it is a “vision”; in her 1922 introduction she noted:
“Only the narrator has scope to see it all, to resolve it back into simplicity, and
to put it in its rightful place among his larger categories.”
In structural terms, the opening of the door to Frome’s farm house marks the
end of the novel’s introductory frame. The narrator has literally brought the

reader to the threshold of Frome’s private world. This narrative threshold,
marked by an ellipsis, signals the transition from one crucial piece of the story
to another, a rather imprecise line that separates Frome’s outer and inner
worlds. What occupies the space between the opening and closing frames is
the narrator’s imaginative vision, his attempt to offer a way out of his
temporary disorientation and a way to picture the essential elements of the
tragic story.
If this narrative device solved Wharton’s structural challenge by introducing
a nearly perfect symmetry to the tale, it also offered temporal perspective on
events that happened a generation earlier. The narrator notes something in
Ethan’s “past history” or his “present way of living” (p. 15) that has driven
him more deeply into himself. The narrator arrives in Starkfield in “the
degenerate day of trolley, bicycle and rural delivery, when communication
was easy between the scattered mountain villages, and the bigger towns in the
valleys, such as Bettsbridge and Shadd’s Falls, had libraries, theatres and Y.
M. C. A. halls to which the youth of the hills could descend for recreation” (p.
10); but he is offered a glimpse into a life that had been shut down in Ethan’s
young manhood. This contrast between past and present reinforces the
reader’s understanding that the plot of Ethan’s story hinges on a temporal
outline in which the climax (or anticlimax) occurred a generation later than
the initial acts of the tragedy.
The opening frame of the novel, essentially a prolonged transit up to the
door of the farmhouse, offers an entree (both literal and figurative) into
Frome’s private world. If the term “frame” connotes a structural principle, the
introductory and closing sections, as already suggested, highlight the central
narrative by putting frames around a picture of Frome that the storyteller
develops. In an appendix to her autobiography Wharton acknowledged, “I
always saw the visible universe as a series of pictures” (Wharton, “Life and
I”). Even during her youth and adolescence she possessed a “visual
sensibility” that was “intense.” In her author’s introduction, more specifically,
she stresses the “natural” and “picture-making” merit of the narrative device
she employs. In like terms she notes the need for fidelity to the “essential
elements of my picture.” As outlined in her introduction, her art of
composition (what Edgar Allan Poe called his “Philosophy of Composition”)
is as much a process of drawing pictures of her deeply rooted, reticent
characters as of rendering their speech and conduct.
In this regard it is worth noting that in 1936 Owen and Donald Davis
dramatized Ethan Frome in New York, in a production successful enough to
evolve into a national theatrical tour. The producers obviously sensed latent

potential for the stage in adapting Wharton’s narrative, despite its small cast,
its compression, and its clipped dialogue. The author herself had explicitly
used dramatic terms to trace the arc of Frome’s career: climax, anticlimax, the
acts of the tragedy. Early in the narrative, moreover, Ethan glides on the snow
“like a stage-apparition behind thickening veils of gauze” (p. 15). If
occasionally light penetrates through the “screen of snow” (p. 18), the wintry
landscape offers a series of layering or veiling effects, similar to the varied
uses of theatrical screens or curtains. In a narrative in which the spoken word
may receive less emphasis than gesture and expression, characters become
“silhouettes” in a “shadowy pantomime” (p. 28). Wharton even alludes in her
introduction to the casual novelist’s temptation to resort to “added ornament,
or a trick of drapery or lighting.”
It is interesting to note that in a foreword to the dramatization Wharton
praised the stage version for avoiding the “grimacing enlargement of gesture
and language” sometimes deemed necessary to carry a work of fiction across
the footlights. What she hoped would stay with her audience were the
“strained starved faces” of her characters. Starting in the novel with her figure
of granite outcroppings half-emerged from the soil, Wharton moves from
images of stasis and inactivity—the idle wheel at Frome’s saw-mill and the
sagging sheds burdened by the weight of snows—to ones of stifled energy.
The narrator notes “an orchard of starved apple-trees writhing over a hillside
among outcroppings of slate that nuzzled up through the snow like animals
pushing out their noses to breathe” (p.16). Such images are part of an
elaborate “mise-en-scène” in which Wharton derives varied effects from the
narrator’s precise observation of the local setting.
Wharton’s technique is scenographic, and her nine brief chapters following
the opening frame constitute a succession of local pictures. Precise details
contribute incrementally to a series of intimate pictorial scenes, the point of
view framed by a perspective that derives from an observer who comes from
a world outside Starkfield, and this focus is eventually constrained by
attention to the inner workings of the Frome household. In chapter IV, for
example, Ethan imagines the kitchen and its “homelike look,” the
consequence of Zeena’s absence and the potential for a night alone with
Mattie, and he tries to downplay anything that might ruin “the sweetness of
the picture” (p. 40). Similarly, in chapter VI, after his night with Mattie, he
expresses relief that he had “done nothing to trouble the sweetness of the
picture” (p. 56). Each of these “picture-like” scenes occurs within the
enclosed setting of Starkfield; most of the chapter-length close-scenes occur
inside the Frome farmhouse, and even the arrangement of each room in the

house is composed like a simple set within a small theater. Each scene
achieves its own effect, each derives its subtle coloration from the winter
weather, and scenes and faces are affected by light (analogous to a theatrical
spotlight). In each scene Wharton makes use of basic props, the most
notorious of which is the broken pickle dish that shatters a happy evening and
that ominously prefigures the broken lives of Ethan and Mattie.
In chapter V, the basic inventory of props includes a stove, a lamp, a chair, a
clock, a pipe, and a bit of sewing. Rather than stressing light, this central
chapter is touched by darkness under a muffled sky, an atmosphere as “dark
as Egypt” (p. 52). Assuming that the broken dish will be easily repaired the
next morning, Ethan naively envisions a “scene” that was “just as he dreamed
of” earlier in the day. Within the context of Wharton’s complex, multiple
ironies, Ethan has conjured up a dream of “complete well being,” a “sense of
being in another world, where all was warmth and harmony and time could
bring no change” (p. 51). This dreamlike atmosphere is undercut by Zeena’s
absence, represented by her empty rocking chair. Rather than a clichéd pretty
picture, this scene leads to momentary disorientation in the guise of Ethan’s
vision of Zeena’s countenance, usually “framed” (p. 51) by the patch-work
cushion, but now obscuring and then obliterating the gaze that he had fixed on
Mattie’s pretty face. The scene takes place in a room with all “its ancient
implications of conformity and order” (p. 53), and Ethan’s “return to reality”
is punctuated by the “spectral rocking” of Zeena’s empty chair and by his
recognition that this was the “only evening” (p. 54) that he and Mattie would
ever spend alone together.
In the subsequent chapter, despite Ethan’s best efforts to recover “the same
scene of shining comfort as on the previous evening” (p. 60), once again his
naive hopes are undermined, this time by Zeena’s return from the Flats. She
has returned resolute in her desire to replace Mattie with a hired girl, and the
ensuing exchange in chapter VII is marked by recriminations about past
events and their straitened circumstances. Ethan is so shocked by the “horror
of the scene” (p. 63) that he seeks escape in his “cold dark ‘study’” (p. 72),
hoping to avoid any “sequel to the scene in the kitchen” (p. 72). He eventually
confronts the reality that Zeena would never “cease to be part of the scene”
(p. 75).
Art and cultural historian John Conron notes, in American Picturesque
(Pennsylvania State University Press, 2000), that in local art and literature the
lines between setting and character are “elastic” and “breachable.” Via her
scenographic method, Wharton has painstakingly developed a narrative in
which Starkfield and its surrounding landscape, and her central and minor

characters, the domestic space of their homes, their individual histories, and
their family histories are all intertwined. For example, Mrs. Ned Hale’s wan
refinement is “not out of keeping” (a term derived from landscape aesthetics
and house design) with her “pale old-fashioned house” (p. 11). An even more
striking example is offered by the Frome farmhouse, clearly part of the
scenery but hardly described in such a way to suggest quaintness or refined
taste. It is one of “those lonely New England farm-houses that make the
landscape lonelier,” and Ethan’s clipped identification—“That’s my place”—
only intensifies the “distress and oppression of the scene,” a flash of sunlight
exposing “its plaintive ugliness” (p. 16). The identification of house, human
figure, and setting could not be more direct or explicit than in the narrator’s
characterization of Ethan as “part of the mute melancholy landscape, an
incarnation of its frozen woe, with all that was warm and sentient in him fast
bound below the surface” (p. 13). The identification of man and landscape
takes on symbolic resonance when the narrator notices that the traditional “L”
of this New England farmhouse, usually representing workrooms and store-
rooms at a right angle to the living quarters, has been removed. The house has
a “forlorn and stunted look,” and the narrator, linking the lame Frome and
other inhabitants of the harsh New England climate with their surroundings,
observes “in the diminished dwelling the image of his [Frome‘s] own
shrunken body” (p. 17).
If initially Ethan appeared to an observer to be “the most striking figure in
Starkfield,” possessed of a “careless powerful look” (p. 8), this figure in
motion arouses curiosity not only about the cause of his lameness but about a
“depth of moral isolation too remote for casual access” (p. 13). Wharton’s
visual education, developed through years of self-study in the painting, art,
architecture, and the textured culture of Europe, is here adapted to penetrating
the austere, granite-like surfaces of her local setting in Ethan Frome. During
the years of refining her acute visual sensibility, she found in John Ruskin
(1819-1900), the author of Modern Painters (5 volumes, 1843-1860), an
“interpreter of visual impressions” who did her “incomparable service.” Like
her model Ruskin, she explored all the varied ramifications of “expression,
character, types of countenance, color” implicit in her deceptively simple
characters’ lives.
From such a perspective, Wharton moves logically to a study of facial
expressiveness, of the “strained starved faces” of her characters. As already
noted, features of the landscape offer a means of reading human character; but
Wharton extends her interpretation of Frome’s physical bearing, including
“his brown seamed profile” (p. 13), to reflect hidden energies and concealed

emotions. Although critics have suggested that Wharton overdoes her
descriptions of inscrutable New England faces, this pictorializing of physical
features is essential to the unfolding of her dramatic story, especially with
regard to her female characters. Thus Mattie’s face, when lifted in Ethan’s
direction, “looked like a window that has caught the sunset” (p. 23). The
morning after the dance, her face is “part of the sun’s red and of the pure
glitter on the snow” (p. 36). In contrast, a pale light from a lamp “drew out of
the darkness” Zeena’s “puckered throat ... and deepened fantastically the
hollows and prominences of her high-boned face” (p. 33). Similarly, light
makes Zeena’s “face look more than usually drawn and bloodless, sharpened
the three parallel creases between ear and cheek, and drew querulous lines
from her thin nose to the corners of her mouth” (p. 39). Just as Zeena had
raised a lamp against the black background of the kitchen, Mattie’s light
brings out her distinguishing features: her “slim young throat,” “a lustrous
fleck on her lips,” “her eyes with velvet shade,” and a “milky whiteness above
the black curve of her brows” (p. 47).
Upon her return from the Flats, Zeena, the hypochondriac and wasting wife,
has a new “mien of wan authority” (p. 61). Her voice, moreover, has a new
tone, neither whining nor reproachful but resolute. Zeena’s high-boned face,
thin figure, and gray hair have caused several critics to see her as a witchlike
character. As the narrative progresses toward its closing chapters, this figure
of apparently wasting energy assumes greater power over Ethan: “She was no
longer the listless creature who had lived at his side in a state of sullen self-
absorption, but a mysterious alien presence, an evil energy secreted from the
long years of silent brooding. It was the sense of his helplessness that
sharpened his antipathy” (p. 66). In the early chapters of Ethan Frome,
Wharton uses faces as images in which to read the history of past suffering
and disappointment. As she moves to the closing frame, facial expressions
and gestures signify the long years of endurance that await the inhabitants of
the Frome household after the smash-up. Zeena acts like “one singled out for
a great fate” (p. 61), and Ethan envisions Mattie’s future as fulfilling the fate
of so many working girls he had seen during his days in Worcester: “There
came back to him miserable tales he had heard at Worcester, and the faces of
girls whose lives had begun as hopefully as Mattie‘s” (p. 68).
The female protagonist of Summer, Charity Royall, comments on the lack of
development in her isolated village: “Things don’t change at North Dormer:
people just get used to them.” If the break between the opening frame in
Ethan Frome and the storyteller’s narrative offers an abrupt shift from the
present time to the period of Ethan’s youth, the effect of the temporal change

in the closing frame is exactly the opposite. The series of “scenes” and
“pictures” that the narrator has rendered give a clear impression of the
extended effects of the smash-up on the lives of his three characters. Clearly
Wharton’s local art has taken the reader beyond what Ruskin would have
called the “surface picturesque,” eliciting perhaps a vague melancholy in the
face of the inevitable erosion of time. In chapter V, Ethan undergoes a
“momentary shock” when he imagines that the absent Zeena’s presence is so
palpable that she nearly erases that of Mattie: “It was almost as if the other
face [that is, Zeena‘s], the face of the superseded woman, had obliterated that
of the intruder” (p. 51). This image anticipates the shocking vision of Zeena’s
face that comes into Ethan’s consciousness just as the sled, in its fatal descent,
bears down on the elm: “But suddenly his wife’s face, with twisted,
monstrous lineaments, thrust itself between him and his goal” (p. 93).
Suggesting a more complicated and expressive set of feelings than that
offered by surface pictures, the faces of Wharton’s characters eventually
reflect a suffering that has been long endured, as if in a changeless
environment marked by hopeless routine. In the closing frame, Zeena has
“pale opaque eyes which revealed nothing and reflected nothing, and her
narrow lips were of the same sallow colour as her face” (p. 99). If
physiognomy is a means of reading personal history, it is Mattie’s once bright
and vital face that has come to resemble Zeena’s: “Her hair was as grey as her
companion’s, her face as bloodless and shrivelled, but amber-tinted, with
swarthy shadows sharpening the nose and hollowing the temples. Under her
shapeless dress her body kept its limp immobility, and her dark eyes had the
bright witch-like stare that disease of the spine sometimes gives” (p. 95). The
faces of the two women, sometimes confused in Ethan’s consciousness, have
come to resemble each other. Mattie and Zeena, in effect, have reversed roles,
the latter assuming the role of caregiver, thus repeating the “doctoring”
activities she performed in years past for Ethan’s sickly mother.
The contrast to the opening frame, in which the narrator’s queries had
elicited almost no reply from Mrs. Ned Hale, seems obvious. In a reversal of
the rhythm of the exchange in the opening, the narrator is now content to let
his reserve work on the taciturn townspeople. They are now curious as to
what insights he has gained after being the first visitor to have spent a night in
the Frome household in many years. Mrs. Hale had assumed that our
unnamed visitor had been lost or “buried under a snow-drift” (p. 96), but
when he emerges, part of his enhanced “vision” includes the now more
expressive words of the townspeople who had previously been so reluctant to
speak. (In Wharton’s 1910 story “The Legend,” a famous figure drops out of
sight, only to emerge “frozen stiff” [p. 184] from the snow, with a new name.

That name, significantly, is “Winterman.”) The outsider has indeed come to
learn, via his penetration of the household and by his attention to the hints and
comments offered by the townspeople, how much the wintry landscape has
influenced the inner and outer lives of its inhabitants. Here, as in much of
Wharton’s New England fiction, the lines between life and death are blurred.
A representative of Starkfield offers the last word on the range of pain and
suffering experienced by members of the Frome household. Mrs. Hale notes:
“I don’t see’s there’s much difference between the Fromes up at the farm and
the Fromes down in the graveyard; ‘cept that down there they’re all quiet, and
the women have got to hold their tongues” (p. 95).
Like Wharton’s other New England stories, “The Pretext” (1908), written
several years before Ethan Frome, has been criticized for its bleakness. If
Ethan Frome yearns for escape with the youthful Mattie, Mrs. Margaret
Ransom has found a fleeting alternative to the routine of her existence that is
as “flat as the pattern of the wall-paper” (p. 104). Her escape comes in the
guise of a young Englishman, Guy Dawnish, who, like Ethan, aspires to be an
engineer. Rather than a rustic setting, this story takes place in the staid New
England university town of Wentworth. Wharton’s meticulous attention to the
expressive features of her characters’ faces is once again evident throughout
the story, and Dawnish’s visits to the aging Mrs. Ransom occur in a wintry
light. During the second winter of the young man’s visits, Mrs. Ransom
comes to question the “relentless domesticity” (p. 106) of her relations to her
husband. More significantly, she reproaches herself as she confronts “her
rigid New England ancestry” (p. 104).
Like Ethan Frome, this story is about “frozen lives” (p. 104) and the legacy
of the Puritan past; it also shares with the novel an interest in meaningful and
accurate observation—that is, vision. The story is literally framed by two
brief scenes in which Mrs. Ransom is engaged in self-evaluation while gazing
in a mirror. Is Margaret Ransom’s vision in the closing scene acute in that she
has realized that Guy has used her as a “pretext,” as a visit from his English
relative seems to suggest? According to this interpretation, Guy’s affection for
Mrs. Ransom has been insincere, and he has used Mrs. Ransom’s name to
protect the identity of his real lover. The relative’s repeated “I don’t see,”
however, calls into serious question the accuracy of her insight into the
situation, and the ultimate illusion may be Mrs. Ransom’s. Her all-too-quiet
resignation to “an aching vision of the length of the years that stretched before
her” (p. 131)-much like the long years of endurance in the Frome household
—may be based on the questionable assumption that a young man easily
grows weary of a flirtation with a middle-aged, ordinary-looking woman. As

in Ethan Frome, the reader of “The Pretext” is invited to explore multiple
perspectives.
Whatever the case, at the time she wrote “The Pretext,” Wharton had
embarked on a relationship with the young journalist Morton Fullerton, which
began as a friendship in 1907 and eventually deepened into intimacy in 1908.
The affair continued until 1910, the year she was writing Ethan Frome, and
several critics have detected autobiographical echoes of her liaison with
Fullerton and of her unhappy marriage to the sickly Teddy Wharton in several
of her works.
Most of Wharton’s fictional works follow the principles of realism, but in
The Writing of Fiction (1925) and in her preface to Ghosts (1937) she
expresses a fondness for the supernatural tale. “Afterward” (1910), a ghost
story set in England, shares with Ethan Frome an interest in the “back-waters
of existence,” a setting that can breed “strange acuities of emotion” (p. 138).
The Boynes, the couple in the story, come to England to escape the pace of
life in the United States. Mary’s husband is a successful engineer eager to find
time to work on a book-length project. As in Ethan Frome, the past literally
comes back to haunt the couple in the guise of a figure who had committed
suicide—a victim, unbeknownst to Mary, of her husband’s cheating in
business dealings. The recognition that this figure is a ghost comes
“afterward”; but the real horror of the story does not derive from stock Gothic
machinery so much as from the wife’s belated realization of her husband’s
ruthless nature. As in Ethan Frome, a husband and wife have fallen into
silence, and Mary learns about parts of his life he had kept from her. Once
again Wharton penetrates the superficial veneer of a couple’s relationship to
reveal the secret tensions in an apparently stable marriage.
In the Higher Thought Club of “The Pretext,” the Uplift Club of “The
Legend” (1910), and the Lunch Club of “Xingu” (1916), Wharton makes fun
of the cultural pretensions of her day. In “The Legend,” the devotees of
“Pellerinism” fail to recognize the great figure who is the founder of the
philosophy they study and follow. “Xingu” takes place in Hillbridge,
Wharton’s version of a New England university town and the setting of
several of her other stories, including “The Recovery” (1901). In the Lunch
Club, the assembled ladies are mistresses of derivative knowledge and
pseudo-sophisticated erudition. Their conversation turns to what they think to
be mystical and occult philosophy, but only gradually do they realize that
Xingu is a river in Brazil. Into their midst they welcome the celebrated
novelist Osric Dane, author of the newly published The Wings of Death. As
several Wharton critics have noted, Dane may be a satiric portrayal of her

mentor Henry James, author of The Wings of the Dove (1902). Wharton may
be having some gentle fun at the expense of James’s obscure writing style,
especially in his lengthy and involved later novels. As one of Wharton’s
“culture band” notes of the ending of The Wings of Death: “The beautiful part
of it ... is surely just this—that no one can tell how ‘The Wings of Death’
ends. Osric Dane, overcome by the awful significance of her own meaning,
has mercifully veiled it—perhaps even from herself” (p. 206). Critic Barbara
White suggests there may also be a little of Edith Wharton herself in Dane;
Wharton may be poking gentle fun at herself, particularly at the charges of
pessimism and bleakness that critics applied to several of her works. One club
member wonders aloud if the “pessimistic tendency” of Dane’s book
expresses her “own convictions.” Perhaps alluding to Wharton’s settings, the
same speaker alludes to the “sombre background” that throws her characters
into “vivid relief” (p. 212). If Wharton gave subtle shadings to her scenic
contrasts in Ethan Frome and other works, this artistry is reduced in Dane’s
hands to “the dark hopelessness of it all—the wonderful tone-scheme of black
on black” (p. 207).
Kent Ljungquist has been Professor of English at Worcester Polytechnic
Institute (the technological college in Worcester, Massachusetts, mentioned in
Ethan Frome) since 1987. At WPI he teaches courses in American Realism,
regional writing, and supernatural fiction. He has done both critical and
editorial work on a range of nineteenth-century authors: Edgar Allan Poe,
James Fenimore Cooper, James Russell Lowell, Henry Wadsworth
Longfellow, Henry David Thoreau, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Walt Whitman,
Herman Melville, Thomas Wentworth Higginson, Mary Hallock Foote,
Elizabeth Oakes Smith, and Frederic S. Cozzens. He is the author of The
Grand and the Fair: Poe’s Landscape Aesthetics and Pictorial Techniques
(1984), coeditor of Cooper’s The Deerslayer (1987), and editor of several
reference works: The Facts on File Bibliography of American Fiction to 1865
(1994), Nineteenth-Century American Fiction Writers (1998), Antebellum
Writers in the South (2000), and Antebellum Writers in New York (2000). He
serves on the editorial boards of both Poe Studies/Dark Romanticism and the
Edgar Allan Poe Review.

ETHAN FROME

INTRODUCTION BY EDITH WHARTON
I HAD KNOWN SOMETHING of New England village life long before I
made my home in the same county as my imaginary Starkfield; though,
during the years spent there, certain of its aspects became much more familiar
to me.
Even before that final initiation, however, I had had an uneasy sense that the
New England of fiction bore little-except a vague botanical and dialectical-
resemblance to the harsh and beautiful land as I had seen it. Even the
abundant enumeration of sweet-fern, asters and mountain-laurel, and the
conscientious reproduction of the vernacular, left me with the feeling that the
outcropping granite had in both cases been overlooked. I give the impression
merely as a personal one; it accounts for “Ethan Frome,” and may, to some
readers, in a measure justify it.
So much for the origin of the story; there is nothing else of interest to say of
it, except as concerns its construction.
The problem before me, as I saw in the first flash, was this: I had to deal
with a subject of which the dramatic climax, or rather the anticlimax, occurs a
generation later than the first acts of the tragedy. This enforced lapse of time
would seem to anyone persuaded—as I have always been—that every subject
(in the novelist’s sense of the term) implicitly contains its own form and
dimensions, to mark Ethan Frome as the subject for a novel. But I never
thought this for a moment, for I had felt, at the same time, that the theme of
my tale was not one on which many variations could be played. It must be
treated as starkly and summarily as life had always presented itself to my
protagonists; any attempt to elaborate and complicate their sentiments would
necessarily have falsified the whole. They were, in truth, these figures, my
granite outcroppings; but half-emerged from the soil, and scarcely more
articulate.
This incompatibility between subject and plan would perhaps have seemed
to suggest that my “situation” was after all one to be rejected. Every novelist
has been visited by the insinuating wraiths of false “good situations,” siren-
subjects luring his cockle-shell to the rocks; their voice is oftenest heard, and
their mirage-sea beheld, as he traverses the waterless desert which awaits him
half-way through whatever work is actually in hand. I knew well enough what

song those sirens sang, and had often tied myself to my dull job until they
were out of hearing—perhaps carrying a lost master-piece in their rainbow
veils. But I had no such fear of them in the case of Ethan Frome. It was the
first subject I had ever approached with full confidence in its value, for my
own purpose, and a relative faith in my power to render at least a part of what
I saw in it.
Every novelist, again, who “intends upon” his art, has lit upon such
subjects, and been fascinated by the difficulty of presenting them in the fullest
relief, yet without an added ornament, or a trick of drapery or lighting. This
was my task, if I were to tell the story of Ethan Frome; and my scheme of
construction—which met with the immediate and unqualified disapproval of
the few friends to whom I tentatively outlined it—I still think justified in the
given case. It appears to me, indeed, that, while an air of artificiality is lent to
a tale of complex and sophisticated people which the novelist causes to be
guessed at and interpreted by any mere looker-on, there need be no such
drawback if the looker-on is sophisticated, and the people he interprets are
simple. If he is capable of seeing all around them, no violence is done to
probability in allowing him to exercise this faculty; it is natural enough that
he should act as the sympathizing intermediary between his rudimentary
characters and the more complicated minds to whom he is trying to present
them. But this is all self-evident, and needs explaining only to those who have
never thought of fiction as an art of composition.
The real merit of my construction seems to me to lie in a minor detail. I had
to find means to bring my tragedy, in a way at once natural and picture-
making, to the knowledge of its narrator. I might have sat him down before a
village gossip who would have poured out the whole affair to him in a breath,
but in doing this I should have been false to two essential elements of my
picture: first, the deep-rooted reticence and inarticulateness of the people I
was trying to draw, and secondly the effect of “roundness” (in the plastic
sense) produced by letting their case be seen through eyes as different as
those of Harmon Gow and Mrs. Ned Hale. Each of my chroniclers contributes
to the narrative just so much as he or she is capable of understanding of what,
to them, is a complicated and mysterious case; and only the narrator of the
tale has scope enough to see it all, to resolve it back into simplicity, and to put
it in its rightful place among his larger categories.
I make no claim for originality in following a method of which “La Grande
Bretêche” and “The Ring and the Book” had set me the magnificent example;
my one merit is, perhaps, to have guessed that the proceeding there employed
was also applicable to my small tale.

I have written this brief analysis—the first I have ever published of any of
my books—because, as an author’s introduction to his work, I can imagine
nothing of any value to his readers except a statement as to why he decided to
attempt the work in question, and why he selected one form rather than
another for its embodiment. These primary aims, the only ones that can be
explicitly stated, must, by the artist, be almost instinctively felt and acted
upon before there can pass into his creation that imponderable something
more which causes life to circulate in it, and preserves it for a little from
decay.
EDITH WHARTON.

1
ETHAN FROME
I HAD THE STORY, bit by bit, from various people, and, as generally
happens in such cases, each time it was a different story.
2
If you know Starkfield, Massachusetts, you know the post-office. If you
know the post-office you must have seen Ethan Frome drive up to it, drop the
reins on his hollow-backed bay and drag himself across the brick pavement to
the white colonnade: and you must have asked who he was.
It was there that, several years ago, I saw him for the first time; and the
sight pulled me up sharp. Even then he was the most striking figure in
Starkfield, though he was but the ruin of a man. It was not so much his great
height that marked him, for the “natives” were easily singled out by their lank
longitude from the stockier foreign breed: it was the careless powerful look he
had, in spite of a lameness checking each step like the jerk of a chain. There
was something bleak and unapproachable in his face, and he was so stiffened
and grizzled that I took him for an old man and was surprised to hear that he
was not more than fifty-two. I had this from Harmon Gow, who had driven
the stage from Bettsbridge to Starkfield in pre-trolley days and knew the
chronicle of all the families on his line.
“He’s looked that way ever since he had his smash-up; and that’s twenty-
four years ago come next February,” Harmon threw out between reminiscent
pauses.
The “smash-up” it was—I gathered from the same informant—which,
besides drawing the red gash across Ethan Frome’s forehead, had so
shortened and warped his right side that it cost him a visible effort to take the
few steps from his buggy to the post-office window. He used to drive in from
his farm every day at about noon, and as that was my own hour for fetching
my mail I often passed him in the porch or stood beside him while we waited
on the motions of the distributing hand behind the grating. I noticed that,
though he came so punctually, he seldom received anything but a copy of the
Bettsbridge Eagle, which he put without a glance into his sagging pocket. At
intervals, however, the post-master would hand him an envelope addressed to
3
Mrs. Zenobia—or Mrs. Zeena-Frome, and usually bearing conspicuously in
the upper left-hand corner the address of some manufacturer of patent

medicine and the name of his specific. These documents my neighbour would
also pocket without a glance, as if too much used to them to wonder at their
number and variety, and would then turn away with a silent nod to the post-
master.
Every one in Starkfield knew him and gave him a greeting tempered to his
own grave mien; but his taciturnity was respected and it was only on rare
occasions that one of the older men of the place detained him for a word.
When this happened he would listen quietly, his blue eyes on the speaker’s
face, and answer in so low a tone that his words never reached me; then he
would climb stiffly into his buggy, gather up the reins in his left hand and
drive slowly away in the direction of his farm.
“It was a pretty bad smash-up?” I questioned Harmon, looking after
Frome’s retreating figure, and thinking how gallantly his lean brown head,
with its shock of light hair, must have sat on his strong shoulders before they
were bent out of shape.
“Wust kind,” my informant assented. “More’n enough to kill most men. But
the Fromes are tough. Ethan’ll likely touch a hundred.”
“Good God!” I exclaimed. At the moment Ethan Frome, after climbing to
his seat, had leaned over to assure himself of the security of a wooden box—
also with a druggist’s label on it—which he had placed in the back of the
buggy, and I saw his face as it probably looked when he thought himself
alone. “That man touch a hundred? He looks as if he was dead and in hell
now!”
Harmon drew a slab of tobacco from his pocket, cut off a wedge and
pressed it into the leather pouch of his cheek. “Guess he’s been in Starkfield
too many winters. Most of the smart ones get away.”
“Why didn’t he?”
“Somebody had to stay and care for the folks. There warn’t ever anybody
but Ethan. Fust his father—then his mother—then his wife.”
“And then the smash-up?”
Harmon chuckled sardonically. “That’s so. He had to stay then.”
“I see. And since then they’ve had to care for him?”
Harmon thoughtfully passed his tobacco to the other cheek. “Oh, as to that:
I guess it’s always Ethan done the caring.”
Though Harmon Gow developed the tale as far as his mental and moral
reach permitted there were perceptible gaps between his facts, and I had the

sense that the deeper meaning of the story was in the gaps. But one phrase
stuck in my memory and served as the nucleus about which I grouped my
subsequent inferences: “Guess he’s been in Starkfield too many winters.”
Before my own time there was up I had learned to know what that meant.
Yet I had come in the degenerate day of trolley, bicycle and rural delivery,
when communication was easy between the scattered mountain villages, and
the bigger towns in the valleys, such as Bettsbridge and Shadd’s Falls, had
libraries, theatres and Y. M. C. A. halls to which the youth of the hills could
descend for recreation. But when winter shut down on Starkfield, and the
village lay under a sheet of snow perpetually renewed from the pale skies, I
began to see what life there—or rather its negation—must have been in Ethan
Frome’s young manhood.
I had been sent up by my employers on a job connected with the big power-
house at Corbury Junction, and a long-drawn carpenters’ strike had so delayed
the work that I found myself anchored at Starkneld—the nearest habitable
spot—for the best part of the winter. I chafed at first, and then, under the
hypnotising effect of routine, gradually began to find a grim satisfaction in the
life. During the early part of my stay I had been struck by the contrast
between the vitality of the climate and the deadness of the community. Day
by day, after the December snows were over, a blazing blue sky poured down
torrents of light and air on the white landscape, which gave them back in an
intenser glitter. One would have supposed that such an atmosphere must
quicken the emotions as well as the blood; but it seemed to produce no
change except that of retarding still more the sluggish pulse of Starkfield.
When I had been there a little longer, and had seen this phase of crystal
clearness followed by long stretches of sunless cold; when the storms of
February had pitched their white tents about the devoted village and the wild
cavalry of March winds had charged down to their support; I began to
understand why Starkfield emerged from its six months’ siege like a starved
garrison capitulating without quarter. Twenty years earlier the means of
resistance must have been far fewer, and the enemy in command of almost all
the lines of access between the beleaguered villages; and, considering these
things, I felt the sinister force of Harmon’s phrase: “Most of the smart ones
get away.” But if that were the case, how could any combination of obstacles
have hindered the flight of a man like Ethan Frome?
During my stay at Starkfield I lodged with a middle-aged widow
colloquially known as Mrs. Ned Hale. Mrs. Hale’s father had been the village
lawyer of the previous generation, and “lawyer Varnum’s house,” where my
landlady still lived with her mother, was the most considerable mansion in the

village. It stood at one end of the main street, its classic portico and small-
paned windows looking down a flagged path between Norway spruces to the
slim white steeple of the Congregational church. It was clear that the Varnum
fortunes were at the ebb, but the two women did what they could to preserve a
decent dignity; and Mrs. Hale, in particular, had a certain wan refinement not
out of keeping with her pale old-fashioned house.
In the “best parlour,” with its black horse-hair and mahogany weakly
a
illuminated by a gurgling Carcel lamp, I listened every evening to another
and more delicately shaded version of the Starkfield chronicle. It was not that
Mrs. Ned Hale felt, or affected, any social superiority to the people about her;
it was only that the accident of a finer sensibility and a little more education
had put just enough distance between herself and her neighbours to enable her
to judge them with detachment. She was not unwilling to exercise this faculty,
and I had great hopes of getting from her the missing facts of Ethan Frome’s
story, or rather such a key to his character as should co-ordinate the facts I
knew. Her mind was a store-house of innocuous anecdote and any question
about her acquaintances brought forth a volume of detail; but on the subject of
Ethan Frome I found her unexpectedly reticent. There was no hint of
disapproval in her reserve; I merely felt in her an insurmountable reluctance
to speak of him or his affairs, a low “Yes, I knew them both ... it was awful
...” seeming to be the utmost concession that her distress could make to my
curiosity.
So marked was the change in her manner, such depths of sad initiation did it
imply, that, with some doubts as to my delicacy, I put the case anew to my
village oracle, Harmon Gow; but got for my pains only an uncomprehending
grunt.
“Ruth Varnum was always as nervous as a rat; and, come to think of it, she
was the first one to see ‘em after they was picked up. It happened right below
lawyer Varnum’s, down at the bend of the Corbury road, just round about the
time that Ruth got engaged to Ned Hale. The young folks was all friends, and
I guess she just can’t bear to talk about it. She’s had troubles enough of her
own.”
All the dwellers in Starkfield, as in more notable communities, had had
troubles enough of their own to make them comparatively indifferent to those
of their neighbours; and though all conceded that Ethan Frome’s had been
beyond the common measure, no one gave me an explanation of the look in
his face which, as I persisted in thinking, neither poverty nor physical
suffering could have put there. Nevertheless, I might have contented myself

with the story pieced together from these hints had it not been for the
provocation of Mrs. Hale’s silence, and—a little later—for the accident of
personal contact with the man.
On my arrival at Starkfield, Denis Eady, the rich Irish grocer, who was the
proprietor of Starkfield’s nearest approach to a livery stable, had entered into
an agreement to send me over daily to Corbury Flats, where I had to pick up
my train for the Junction. But about the middle of the winter Eady’s horses
fell ill of a local epidemic. The illness spread to the other Starkfield stables
and for a day or two I was put to it to find a means of transport. Then Harmon
Gow suggested that Ethan Frome’s bay was still on his legs and that his
owner might be glad to drive me over.
I stared at the suggestion. “Ethan Frome? But I’ve never even spoken to
him. Why on earth should he put himself out for me?”
Harmon’s answer surprised me still more. “I don’t know as he would; but I
know he wouldn’t be sorry to earn a dollar.”
I had been told that Frome was poor, and that the saw-mill and the arid
acres of his farm yielded scarcely enough to keep his household through the
winter; but I had not supposed him to be in such want as Harmon’s words
implied, and I expressed my wonder.
“Well, matters ain’t gone any too well with him,” Harmon said. “When a
man’s been setting round like a hulk for twenty years or more, seeing things
that want doing, it eats inter him, and he loses his grit. That Frome farm was
always ‘bout as bare’s a milkpan when the cat’s been round; and you know
what one of them old water-mills is wuth nowadays. When Ethan could sweat
over ’em both from sunup to dark he kinder choked a living out of ‘em; but
his folks ate up most everything, even then, and I don’t see how he makes out
now. Fust his father got a kick, out haying, and went soft in the brain, and
gave away money like Bible texts afore he died. Then his mother got queer
and dragged along for years as weak as a baby; and his wife Zeena, she’s
always been the greatest hand at doctoring in the county. Sickness and
trouble: that’s what Ethan’s had his plate full up with, ever since the very first
helping.”
The next morning, when I looked out, I saw the hollow-backed bay between
the Varnum spruces, and Ethan Frome, throwing back his worn bearskin,
made room for me in the sleigh at his side. After that, for a week, he drove me
over every morning to Corbury Flats, and on my return in the afternoon met
me again and carried me back through the icy night to Starkfield. The
distance each way was barely three miles, but the old bay’s pace was slow,

and even with firm snow under the runners we were nearly an hour on the
way. Ethan Frome drove in silence, the reins loosely held in his left hand, his
brown seamed profile, under the helmet-like peak of the cap, relieved against
the banks of snow like the bronze image of a hero. He never turned his face to
mine, or answered, except in monosyllables, the questions I put, or such slight
pleasantries as I ventured. He seemed a part of the mute melancholy
landscape, an incarnation of its frozen woe, with all that was warm and
sentient in him fast bound below the surface; but there was nothing unfriendly
in his silence. I simply felt that he lived in a depth of moral isolation too
remote for casual access, and I had the sense that his loneliness was not
merely the result of his personal plight, tragic as I guessed that to be, but had
in it, as Harmon Gow had hinted, the profound accumulated cold of many
Starkfield winters.
Only once or twice was the distance between us bridged for a moment; and
the glimpses thus gained confirmed my desire to know more. Once I
happened to speak of an engineering job I had been on the previous year in
Florida, and of the contrast between the winter landscape about us and that in
which I had found myself the year before; and to my surprise Frome said
suddenly: “Yes: I was down there once, and for a good while afterward I
could call up the sight of it in winter. But now it’s all snowed under.”
He said no more, and I had to guess the rest from the inflection of his voice
and his sharp relapse into silence.
Another day, on getting into my train at the Flats, I missed a volume of
popular science—I think it was on some recent discoveries in bio-chemistry
—which I had carried with me to read on the way. I thought no more about it
till I got into the sleigh again that evening, and saw the book in Frome’s hand.
“I found it after you were gone,” he said.
I put the volume into my pocket and we dropped back into our usual
silence; but as we began to crawl up the long hill from Corbury Flats to the
Starkfield ridge I became aware in the dusk that he had turned his face to
mine.
“There are things in that book that I didn’t know the first word about,” he
said.
I wondered less at his words than at the queer note of resentment in his
voice. He was evidently surprised and slightly aggrieved at his own
ignorance.
“Does that sort of thing interest you?” I asked.

“It used to.”
“There are one or two rather new things in the book: there have been some
big strides lately in that particular line of research.” I waited a moment for an
answer that did not come; then I said: “If you’d like to look the book through
I’d be glad to leave it with you.”
He hesitated, and I had the impression that he felt himself about to yield to a
stealing tide of inertia; then, “Thank you—I’ll take it,” he answered shortly.
I hoped that this incident might set up some more direct communication
between us. Frome was so simple and straightforward that I was sure his
curiosity about the book was based on a genuine interest in its subject. Such
tastes and acquirements in a man of his condition made the contrast more
poignant between his outer situation and his inner needs, and I hoped that the
chance of giving expression to the latter might at least unseal his lips. But
something in his past history, or in his present way of living, had apparently
driven him too deeply into himself for any casual impulse to draw him back
to his kind. At our next meeting he made no allusion to the book, and our
intercourse seemed fated to remain as negative and one-sided as if there had
been no break in his reserve.
Frome had been driving me over to the Flats for about a week when one
morning I looked out of my window into a thick snowfall. The height of the
white waves massed against the garden-fence and along the wall of the church
showed that the storm must have been going on all night, and that the drifts
were likely to be heavy in the open. I thought it probable that my train would
be delayed; but I had to be at the power-house for an hour or two that
afternoon, and I decided, if Frome turned up, to push through to the Flats and
wait there till my train came in. I don’t know why I put it in the conditional,
however, for I never doubted that Frome would appear. He was not the kind
of man to be turned from his business by any commotion of the elements; and
at the appointed hour his sleigh glided up through the snow like a stage-
apparition behind thickening veils of gauze.
I was getting to know him too well to express either wonder or gratitude at
his keeping his appointment; but I exclaimed in surprise as I saw him turn his
horse in a direction opposite to that of the Corbury road.
“The railroad’s blocked by a freight-train that got stuck in a drift below the
Flats,” he explained, as we jogged off into the stinging whiteness.
“But look here—where are you taking me, then?”
“Straight to the Junction, by the shortest way,” he answered, pointing up

School House Hill with his whip.
“To the Junction—in this storm? Why, it’s a good ten miles!”
“The bay’ll do it if you give him time. You said you had some business
there this afternoon. I’ll see you get there.”
He said it so quietly that I could only answer: “You’re doing me the biggest
kind of a favour.”
“That’s all right,” he rejoined.
Abreast of the schoolhouse the road forked, and we dipped down a lane to
the left, between hemlock boughs bent inward to their trunks by the weight of
the snow. I had often walked that way on Sundays, and knew that the solitary
roof showing through bare branches near the bottom of the hill was that of
Frome’s saw-mill. It looked exanimate enough, with its idle wheel looming
above the black stream dashed with yellow-white spume, and its cluster of
sheds sagging under their white load. Frome did not even turn his head as we
drove by, and still in silence we began to mount the next slope. About a mile
farther, on a road I had never travelled, we came to an orchard of starved
apple-trees writhing over a hillside among outcroppings of slate that nuzzled
up through the snow like animals pushing out their noses to breathe. Beyond
the orchard lay a field or two, their boundaries lost under drifts; and above the
fields, huddled against the white immensities of land and sky, one of those
lonely New England farm-houses that make the landscape lonelier.
“That’s my place,” said Frome, with a sideway jerk of his lame elbow; and
in the distress and oppression of the scene I did not know what to answer. The
snow had ceased, and a flash of watery sunlight exposed the house on the
slope above us in all its plaintive ugliness. The black wraith of a deciduous
creeper flapped from the porch, and the thin wooden walls, under their worn
coat of paint, seemed to shiver in the wind that had risen with the ceasing of
the snow.
“The house was bigger in my father’s time: I had to take down the ‘L,’ a
while back,” Frome continued, checking with a twitch of the left rein the
bay’s evident intention of turning in through the broken-down gate.
I saw then that the unusually forlorn and stunted look of the house was
partly due to the loss of what is known in New England as the “L”: that long
deep-roofed adjunct usually built at right angles to the main house, and
connecting it, by way of store-rooms and tool-house, with the wood-shed and
cow-barn. Whether because of its symbolic sense, the image it presents of a
life linked with the soil, and enclosing in itself the chief sources of warmth

and nourishment, or whether merely because of the consolatory thought that it
enables the dwellers in that harsh climate to get to their morning’s work
without facing the weather, it is certain that the “L” rather than the house
itself seems to be the centre, the actual hearth-stone of the New England farm.
Perhaps this connection of ideas, which had often occurred to me in my
rambles about Starkfield, caused me to hear a wistful note in Frome’s words,
and to see in the diminished dwelling the image of his own shrunken body.
“We’re kinder side-tracked here now,” he added, “but there was
considerable passing before the railroad was carried through to the Flats.” He
roused the lagging bay with another twitch; then, as if the mere sight of the
house had let me too deeply into his confidence for any farther pretence of
reserve, he went on slowly: “I’ve always set down the worst of mother’s
trouble to that. When she got the rheumatism so bad she couldn’t move
around she used to sit up there and watch the road by the hour; and one year,
when they was six months mending the Bettsbridge pike after the floods, and
Harmon Gow had to bring his stage round this way, she picked up so that she
used to get down to the gate most days to see him. But after the trains begun
running nobody ever come by here to speak of, and mother never could get it
through her head what had happened, and it preyed on her right along till she
died.”
As we turned into the Corbury road the snow began to fall again, cutting off
our last glimpse of the house; and Frome’s silence fell with it, letting down
between us the old veil of reticence. This time the wind did not cease with the
return of the snow. Instead, it sprang up to a gale which now and then, from a
tattered sky, flung pale sweeps of sunlight over a landscape chaotically tossed.
But the bay was as good as Frome’s word, and we pushed on to the Junction
through the wild white scene.
In the afternoon the storm held off, and the clearness in the west seemed to
my inexperienced eye the pledge of a fair evening. I finished my business as
quickly as possible, and we set out for Starkfield with a good chance of
getting there for supper. But at sunset the clouds gathered again, bringing an
earlier night, and the snow began to fall straight and steadily from a sky
without wind, in a soft universal diffusion more confusing than the gusts and
eddies of the morning. It seemed to be a part of the thickening darkness, to be
the winter night itself descending on us layer by layer.
The small ray of Frome’s lantern was soon lost in this smothering medium,
in which even his sense of direction, and the bay’s homing instinct, finally
ceased to serve us. Two or three times some ghostly landmark sprang up to
warn us that we were astray, and then was sucked back into the mist; and

when we finally regained our road the old horse began to show signs of
exhaustion. I felt myself to blame for having accepted Frome’s offer, and after
a short discussion I persuaded him to let me get out of the sleigh and walk
along through the snow at the bay’s side. In this way we struggled on for
another mile or two, and at last reached a point where Frome, peering into
what seemed to me formless night, said: “That’s my gate down yonder.”
The last stretch had been the hardest part of the way. The bitter cold and the
heavy going had nearly knocked the wind out of me, and I could feel the
horse’s side ticking like a clock under my hand.
“Look here, Frome,” I began, “there’s no earthly use in your going any
farther—” but he interrupted me: “Nor you neither. There’s been about
enough of this for anybody.”
I understood that he was offering me a night’s shelter at the farm, and
without answering I turned into the gate at his side, and followed him to the
barn, where I helped him to unharness and bed down the tired horse. When
this was done he unhooked the lantern from the sleigh, stepped out again into
the night, and called to me over his shoulder: “This way.”
Far off above us a square of light trembled through the screen of snow.
Staggering along in Frome’s wake I floundered toward it, and in the darkness
almost fell into one of the deep drifts against the front of the house. Frome
scrambled up the slippery steps of the porch, digging a way through the snow
with his heavily booted foot. Then he lifted his lantern, found the latch, and
led the way into the house. I went after him into a low unlit passage, at the
back of which a ladder-like staircase rose into obscurity. On our right a line of
light marked the door of the room which had sent its ray across the night; and
behind the door I heard a woman’s voice droning querulously.
Frome stamped on the worn oil-cloth to shake the snow from his boots, and
set down his lantern on a kitchen chair which was the only piece of furniture
in the hall. Then he opened the door.
“Come in,” he said; and as he spoke the droning voice grew still ...
It was that night that I found the clue to Ethan Frome, and began to put
together this vision of his story.

CHAPTER ONE
THE VILLAGE LAY UNDER two feet of snow, with drifts at the windy
corners. In a sky of iron the points of the Dipper hung like icicles and Orion
flashed his cold fires. The moon had set, but the night was so transparent that
the white house-fronts between the elms looked gray against the snow,
clumps of bushes made black stains on it, and the basement windows of the
church sent shafts of yellow light far across the endless undulations.
Young Ethan Frome walked at a quick pace along the deserted street, past
the bank and Michael Eady’s new brick store and Lawyer Varnum’s house
with the two black Norway spruces at the gate. Opposite the Varnum gate,
where the road fell away toward the Corbury valley, the church reared its slim
b
white steeple and narrow peristyle. As the young man walked toward it the
upper windows drew a black arcade along the side wall of the building, but
from the lower openings, on the side where the ground sloped steeply down to
the Corbury road, the light shot its long bars, illuminating many fresh furrows
in the track leading to the basement door, and showing, under an adjoining
shed, a line of sleighs with heavily blanketed horses.
The night was perfectly still, and the air so dry and pure that it gave little
sensation of cold. The effect produced on Frome was rather of a complete
absence of atmosphere, as though nothing less tenuous than ether intervened
between the white earth under his feet and the metallic dome overhead. “It’s
4
like being in an exhausted receiver,” he thought. Four or five years earlier he
5
had taken a year’s course at a technological college at Worcester, and
dabbled in the laboratory with a friendly professor of physics; and the images
supplied by that experience still cropped up, at unexpected moments, through
the totally different associations of thought in which he had since been living.
His father’s death, and the misfortunes following it, had put a premature end
to Ethan’s studies; but though they had not gone far enough to be of much
practical use they had fed his fancy and made him aware of huge cloudy
meanings behind the daily face of things.
As he strode along through the snow the sense of such meanings glowed in
his brain and mingled with the bodily flush produced by his sharp tramp. At
the end of the village he paused before the darkened front of the church. He

stood there a moment, breathing quickly, and looking up and down the street,
in which not another figure moved. The pitch of the Corbury road, below
lawyer Varnum’s spruces, was the favourite coasting-ground of Starkfield,
and on clear evenings the church corner rang till late with the shouts of the
coasters; but to-night not a sled darkened the whiteness of the long declivity.
The hush of midnight lay on the village, and all its waking life was gathered
behind the church windows, from which strains of dance-music flowed with
the broad bands of yellow light.
The young man, skirting the side of the building, went down the slope
toward the basement door. To keep out of range of the revealing rays from
within he made a circuit through the untrodden snow and gradually
approached the farther angle of the basement wall. Thence, still hugging the
shadow, he edged his way cautiously forward to the nearest window, holding
back his straight spare body and craning his neck till he got a glimpse of the
room.
Seen thus, from the pure and frosty darkness in which he stood, it seemed to
be seething in a mist of heat. The metal reflectors of the gas-jets sent crude
waves of light against the whitewashed walls, and the iron flanks of the stove
at the end of the hall looked as though they were heaving with volcanic fires.
The floor was thronged with girls and young men. Down the side wall facing
the window stood a row of kitchen chairs from which the older women had
just risen. By this time the music had stopped, and the musicians—a fiddler,
and the young lady who played the harmonium on Sundays—were hastily
refreshing themselves at one corner of the supper-table which aligned its
devastated pie-dishes and ice-cream saucers on the platform at the end of the
hall. The guests were preparing to leave, and the tide had already set toward
the passage where coats and wraps were hung, when a young man with a
sprightly foot and a shock of black hair shot into the middle of the floor and
clapped his hands. The signal took instant effect. The musicians hurried to
their instruments, the dancers—some already half-muffled for departure—fell
6
into line down each side of the room, the older spectators slipped back to
their chairs, and the lively young man, after diving about here and there in the
throng, drew forth a girl who had already wound a cherry-coloured
c
“fascinator” about her head, and, leading her up to the end of the floor,
d
whirled her down its length to the bounding tune of a Virginia reel.
Frome’s heart was beating fast. He had been straining for a glimpse of the
dark head under the cherry-coloured scarf and it vexed him that another eye
should have been quicker than his. The leader of the reel, who looked as if he

had Irish blood in his veins, danced well, and his partner caught his fire. As
she passed down the line, her light figure swinging from hand to hand in
circles of increasing swiftness, the scarf flew off her head and stood out
behind her shoulders, and Frome, at each turn, caught sight of her laughing
panting lips, the cloud of dark hair about her forehead, and the dark eyes
which seemed the only fixed points in a maze of flying lines.
The dancers were going faster and faster, and the musicians, to keep up with
them, belaboured their instruments like jockeys lashing their mounts on the
home-stretch; yet it seemed to the young man at the window that the reel
would never end. Now and then he turned his eyes from the girl’s face to that
of her partner, which, in the exhilaration of the dance, had taken on a look of
almost impudent ownership. Denis Eady was the son of Michael Eady, the
ambitious Irish grocer, whose suppleness and effrontery had given Starkfield
its first notion of “smart” business methods, and whose new brick store
testified to the success of the attempt. His son seemed likely to follow in his
steps, and was meanwhile applying the same arts to the conquest of the
Starkfield maidenhood. Hitherto Ethan Frome had been content to think him a
mean fellow; but now he positively invited a horse-whipping. It was strange
that the girl did not seem aware of it: that she could lift her rapt face to her
dancer‘s, and drop her hands into his, without appearing to feel the offence of
his look and touch.
Frome was in the habit of walking into Starkfield to fetch home his wife’s
cousin, Mattie Silver, on the rare evenings when some chance of amusement
drew her to the village. It was his wife who had suggested, when the girl came
to live with them, that such opportunities should be put in her way. Mattie
e
Silver came from Stamford, and when she entered the Fromes’ household to
act as her cousin Zeena’s aid it was thought best, as she came without pay, not
to let her feel too sharp a contrast between the life she had left and the
isolation of a Starkfield farm. But for this—as Frome sardonically reflected—
it would hardly have occurred to Zeena to take any thought for the girl’s
amusement.
When his wife first proposed that they should give Mattie an occasional
evening out he had inwardly demurred at having to do the extra two miles to
the village and back after his hard day on the farm; but not long afterward he
had reached the point of wishing that Starkfield might give all its nights to
revelry.
Mattie Silver had lived under his roof for a year, and from early morning till
they met at supper he had frequent chances of seeing her; but no moments in

her company were comparable to those when, her arm in his, and her light
step flying to keep time with his long stride, they walked back through the
night to the farm. He had taken to the girl from the first day, when he had
driven over to the Flats to meet her, and she had smiled and waved to him
from the train, crying out, “You must be Ethan!” as she jumped down with her
bundles, while he reflected, looking over her slight person: “She don’t look
much on housework, but she ain’t a fretter, anyhow.” But it was not only that
the coming to his house of a bit of hopeful young life was like the lighting of
a fire on a cold hearth. The girl was more than the bright serviceable creature
he had thought her. She had an eye to see and an ear to hear: he could show
her things and tell her things, and taste the bliss of feeling that all he imparted
left long reverberations and echoes he could wake at will.
It was during their night walks back to the farm that he felt most intensely
the sweetness of this communion. He had always been more sensitive than the
people about him to the appeal of natural beauty. His unfinished studies had
given form to this sensibility and even in his unhappiest moments field and
sky spoke to him with a deep and powerful persuasion. But hitherto the
emotion had remained in him as a silent ache, veiling with sadness the beauty
that evoked it. He did not even know whether any one else in the world felt as
he did, or whether he was the sole victim of this mournful privilege. Then he
learned that one other spirit had trembled with the same touch of wonder: that
at his side, living under his roof and eating his bread, was a creature to whom
he could say: “That’s Orion down yonder; the big fellow to the right is Alde
baran, and the bunch of little ones—like bees swarming—they’re the
f
Pleiades ...” or whom he could hold entranced before a ledge of granite
thrusting up through the fern while he unrolled the huge panorama of the ice
age, and the long dim stretches of succeeding time. The fact that admiration
for his learning mingled with Mattie’s wonder at what he taught was not the
least part of his pleasure. And there were other sensations, less definable but
more exquisite, which drew them together with a shock of silent joy: the cold
red of sunset behind winter hills, the flight of cloud-flocks over slopes of
golden stubble, or the intensely blue shadows of hemlocks on sunlit snow.
When she said to him once: “It looks just as if it was painted!” it seemed to
Ethan that the art of definition could go no farther, and that words had at last
been found to utter his secret soul....
As he stood in the darkness outside the church these memories came back
with the poignancy of vanished things. Watching Mattie whirl down the floor
from hand to hand he wondered how he could ever have thought that his dull
talk interested her. To him, who was never gay but in her presence, her gaiety

seemed plain proof of indifference. The face she lifted to her dancers was the
same which, when she saw him, always looked like a window that has caught
the sunset. He even noticed two or three gestures which, in his fatuity, he had
thought she kept for him: a way of throwing her head back when she was
amused, as if to taste her laugh before she let it out, and a trick of sinking her
lids slowly when anything charmed or moved her.
The sight made him unhappy, and his unhappiness roused his latent fears.
His wife had never shown any jealousy of Mattie, but of late she had
grumbled increasingly over the house-work and found oblique ways of
attracting attention to the girl’s inefficiency. Zeena had always been what
Starkfield called “sickly,” and Frome had to admit that, if she were as ailing
as she believed, she needed the help of a stronger arm than the one which lay
so lightly in his during the night walks to the farm. Mattie had no natural turn
for housekeeping, and her training had done nothing to remedy the defect.
She was quick to learn, but forgetful and dreamy, and not disposed to take the
matter seriously. Ethan had an idea that if she were to marry a man she was
fond of the dormant instinct would wake, and her pies and biscuits become
the pride of the county; but domesticity in the abstract did not interest her. At
first she was so awkward that he could not help laughing at her; but she
laughed with him and that made them better friends. He did his best to
supplement her unskilled efforts, getting up earlier than usual to light the
kitchen fire, carrying in the wood overnight, and neglecting the mill for the
farm that he might help her about the house during the day. He even crept
down on Saturday nights to scrub the kitchen floor after the women had gone
to bed; and Zeena, one day, had surprised him at the churn and had turned
away silently, with one of her queer looks.
Of late there had been other signs of her disfavour, as intangible but more
disquieting. One cold winter morning, as he dressed in the dark, his candle
flickering in the draught of the ill-fitting window, he had heard her speak
from the bed behind him.
“The doctor don’t want I should be left without anybody to do for me,” she
said in her flat whine.
He had supposed her to be asleep, and the sound of her voice had startled
him, though she was given to abrupt explosions of speech after long intervals
of secretive silence.
He turned and looked at her where she lay indistinctly outlined under the
dark calico quilt, her high-boned face taking a grayish tinge from the
whiteness of the pillow.

“Nobody to do for you?” he repeated.
“If you say you can’t afford a hired girl when Mattie goes.”
Frome turned away again, and taking up his razor stooped to catch the
reflection of his stretched cheek in the blotched looking-glass above the wash-
stand.
“Why on earth should Mattie go?”
“Well, when she gets married, I mean,” his wife’s drawl came from behind
him.
“Oh, she’d never leave us as long as you needed her,” he returned, scraping
hard at his chin.
“I wouldn’t ever have it said that I stood in the way of a poor girl like
Mattie marrying a smart fellow like Denis Eady,” Zeena answered in a tone of
plaintive self-effacement.
Ethan, glaring at his face in the glass, threw his head back to draw the razor
from ear to chin. His hand was steady, but the attitude was an excuse for not
making an immediate reply.
“And the doctor don’t want I should be left without anybody,” Zeena
continued. “He wanted I should speak to you about a girl he’s heard about,
that might come—”
Ethan laid down the razor and straightened himself with a laugh.
“Denis Eady! If that’s all, I guess there’s no such hurry to look round for a
girl.”
“Well, I’d like to talk to you about it,” said Zeena obstinately.
He was getting into his clothes in fumbling haste. “All right. But I haven’t
got the time now; I’m late as it is,” he returned, holding his old silver turnip-
watch to the candle.
Zeena, apparently accepting this as final, lay watching him in silence while
he pulled his suspenders over his shoulders and jerked his arms into his coat;
but as he went toward the door she said, suddenly and incisively: “I guess
you’re always late, now you shave every morning.”
That thrust had frightened him more than any vague insinuations about
Denis Eady. It was a fact that since Mattie Silver’s coming he had taken to
shaving every day; but his wife always seemed to be asleep when he left her
side in the winter darkness, and he had stupidly assumed that she would not
notice any change in his appearance. Once or twice in the past he had been
faintly disquieted by Zenobia’s way of letting things happen without seeming

to remark them, and then, weeks afterward, in a casual phrase, revealing that
she had all along taken her notes and drawn her inferences. Of late, however,
there had been no room in his thoughts for such vague apprehensions. Zeena
herself, from an oppressive reality, had faded into an insubstantial shade. All
his life was lived in the sight and sound of Mattie Silver, and he could no
longer conceive of its being otherwise. But now, as he stood outside the
church, and saw Mattie spinning down the floor with Denis Eady, a throng of
disregarded hints and menaces wove their cloud about his brain....

CHAPTER TWO
As THE DANCERS POURED out of the hall Frome, drawing back behind
the projecting storm-door, watched the segregation of the grotesquely muffled
groups, in which a moving lantern ray now and then lit up a face flushed with
food and dancing. The villagers, being afoot, were the first to climb the slope
to the main street, while the country neighbours packed themselves more
slowly into the sleighs under the shed.
“Ain’t you riding, Mattie?” a woman’s voice called back from the throng
about the shed, and Ethan’s heart gave a jump. From where he stood he could
not see the persons coming out of the hall till they had advanced a few steps
beyond the wooden sides of the storm-door; but through its cracks he heard a
clear voice answer: “Mercy no! Not on such a night.”
She was there, then, close to him, only a thin board between. In another
moment she would step forth into the night, and his eyes, accustomed to the
obscurity, would discern her as clearly as though she stood in daylight. A
wave of shyness pulled him back into the dark angle of the wall, and he stood
there in silence instead of making his presence known to her. It had been one
of the wonders of their intercourse that from the first, she, the quicker, finer,
more expressive, instead of crushing him by the contrast, had given him
something of her own ease and freedom; but now he felt as heavy and loutish
as in his student days, when he had tried to “jolly” the Worcester girls at a
picnic.
He hung back, and she came out alone and paused within a few yards of
him. She was almost the last to leave the hall, and she stood looking
uncertainly about her as if wondering why he did not show himself. Then a
man’s figure approached, coming so close to her that under their formless
wrappings they seemed merged in one dim outline.
“Gentleman friend gone back on you? Say, Matt, that’s tough! No, I
wouldn’t be mean enough to tell the other girls. I ain’t as low-down as that.”
(How Frome hated his cheap banter!) “But look a here, ain’t it lucky I got the
g
old man’s cutter down there waiting for us?”
Frome heard the girl’s voice, gaily incredulous: “What on earth’s your
father’s cutter doin’ down there?”

“Why, waiting for me to take a ride. I got the roan colt too. I kinder knew
I’d want to take a ride to-night,” Eady, in his triumph, tried to put a
sentimental note into his bragging voice.
The girl seemed to waver, and Frome saw her twirl the end of her scarf
irresolutely about her fingers. Not for the world would he have made a sign to
her, though it seemed to him that his life hung on her next gesture.
“Hold on a minute while I unhitch the colt,” Denis called to her, springing
toward the shed.
She stood perfectly still, looking after him, in an attitude of tranquil
expectancy torturing to the hidden watcher. Frome noticed that she no longer
turned her head from side to side, as though peering through the night for
another figure. She let Denis Eady lead out the horse, climb into the cutter
and fling back the bearskin to make room for her at his side; then, with a swift
motion of flight, she turned about and darted up the slope toward the front of
the church.
“Good-bye! Hope you’ll have a lovely ride!” she called back to him over
her shoulder.
Denis laughed, and gave the horse a cut that brought him quickly abreast of
her retreating figure.
“Come along! Get in quick! It’s as slippery as thunder on this turn,” he
cried, leaning over to reach out a hand to her.
She laughed back at him: “Good-night! I’m not getting in.”
By this time they had passed beyond Frome’s earshot and he could only
follow the shadowy pantomime of their silhouettes as they continued to move
along the crest of the slope above him. He saw Eady, after a moment, jump
from the cutter and go toward the girl with the reins over one arm. The other
he tried to slip through hers; but she eluded him nimbly, and Frome’s heart,
which had swung out over a black void, trembled back to safety. A moment
later he heard the jingle of departing sleigh bells and discerned a figure
advancing alone toward the empty expanse of snow before the church.
In the black shade of the Varnum spruces he caught up with her and she
turned with a quick “Oh!”
“Think I’d forgotten you, Matt?” he asked with sheepish glee.
She answered seriously: “I thought maybe you couldn’t come back for me.”
“Couldn’t? What on earth could stop me?”
“I knew Zeena wasn’t feeling any too good to-day.”

“Oh, she’s in bed long ago.” He paused, a question struggling in him. “Then
you meant to walk home all alone?”
“Oh, I ain’t afraid!” she laughed.
They stood together in the gloom of the spruces, an empty world
glimmering about them wide and grey under the stars. He brought his
question out.
“If you thought I hadn’t come, why didn’t you ride back with Denis Eady?”
“Why, where were you? How did you know? I never saw you!”
Her wonder and his laughter ran together like spring rills in a thaw. Ethan
had the sense of having done something arch and ingenious. To prolong the
effect he groped for a dazzling phrase, and brought out, in a growl of rapture:
“Come along.”
He slipped an arm through hers, as Eady had done, and fancied it was
faintly pressed against her side; but neither of them moved. It was so dark
under the spruces that he could barely see the shape of her head beside his
shoulder. He longed to stoop his cheek and rub it against her scarf. He would
have liked to stand there with her all night in the blackness. She moved
forward a step or two and then paused again above the dip of the Corbury
road. Its icy slope, scored by innumerable runners, looked like a mirror
scratched by travellers at an inn.
“There was a whole lot of them coasting before the moon set,” she said.
“Would you like to come in and coast with them some night?” he asked.
“Oh, would you, Ethan? It would be lovely!”
“We’ll come to-morrow if there’s a moon.”
She lingered, pressing closer to his side. “Ned Hale and Ruth Varnum came
just as near running into the big elm at the bottom. We were all sure they
were killed.” Her shiver ran down his arm. “Wouldn’t it have been too awful?
They’re so happy!”
“Oh, Ned ain’t much at steering. I guess I can take you down all right!” he
said disdainfully.
He was aware that he was “talking big,” like Denis Eady; but his reaction of
joy had unsteadied him, and the inflection with which she had said of the
engaged couple “They’re so happy!” made the words sound as if she had been
thinking of herself and him.
“The elm is dangerous, though. It ought to be cut down,” she insisted.

“Would you be afraid of it, with me?”
“I told you I ain’t the kind to be afraid,” she tossed back, almost
indifferently; and suddenly she began to walk on with a rapid step.
These alterations of mood were the despair and joy of Ethan Frome. The
motions of her mind were as incalculable as the flit of a bird in the branches.
The fact that he had no right to show his feelings, and thus provoke the
expression of hers, made him attach a fantastic importance to every change in
her look and tone. Now he thought she understood him, and feared; now he
was sure she did not, and despaired. To-night the pressure of accumulated
misgivings sent the scale drooping toward despair, and her indifference was
the more chilling after the flush of joy into which she had plunged him by
dismissing Denis Eady. He mounted School House Hill at her side and walked
on in silence till they reached the lane leading to the saw-mill; then the need
of some definite assurance grew too strong for him.
“You’d have found me right off if you hadn’t gone back to have that last
reel with Denis,” he brought out awkwardly. He could not pronounce the
name without a stiffening of the muscles of his throat.
“Why, Ethan, how could I tell you were there?”
“I suppose what folks say is true,” he jerked out at her, instead of
answering.
She stopped short, and he felt, in the darkness, that her face was lifted
quickly to his. “Why, what do folks say?”
“It’s natural enough you should be leaving us,” he floundered on, following
his thought.
“Is that what they say?” she mocked back at him; then, with a sudden drop
of her sweet treble: “You mean that Zeena—ain’t suited with me any more?”
she faltered.
Their arms had slipped apart and they stood motionless, each seeking to
distinguish the other’s face.
“I know I ain’t anything like as smart as I ought to be,” she went on, while
he vainly struggled for expression. “There’s lots of things a hired girl could
do that come awkward to me still—and I haven’t got much strength in my
arms. But if she’d only tell me I’d try. You know she hardly ever says
anything, and sometimes I can see she ain’t suited, and yet I don’t know
why.” She turned on him with a sudden flash of indignation. “You’d ought to
tell me, Ethan Frome—you’d ought to! Unless you want me to go too—”
Unless he wanted her to go too! The cry was balm to his raw wound. The

iron heavens seemed to melt and rain down sweetness. Again he struggled for
the all-expressive word, and again, his arm in hers, found only a deep “Come
along.”
They walked on in silence through the blackness of the hemlock-shaded
lane, where Ethan’s saw-mill gloomed through the night, and out again into
the comparative clearness of the fields. On the farther side of the hemlock belt
the open country rolled away before them grey and lonely under the stars.
Sometimes their way led them under the shade of an overhanging bank or
through the thin obscurity of a clump of leafless trees. Here and there a farm-
house stood far back among the fields, mute and cold as a grave-stone. The
night was so still that they heard the frozen snow crackle under their feet. The
crash of a loaded branch falling far off in the woods reverberated like a
musket-shot, and once a fox barked, and Mattie shrank closer to Ethan, and
quickened her steps.
At length they sighted the group of larches at Ethan’s gate, and as they drew
near it the sense that the walk was over brought back his words.
“Then you don’t want to leave us, Matt?”
He had to stoop his head to catch her stifled whisper: “Where’d I go, if I
did?”
The answer sent a pang through him but the tone suffused him with joy. He
forgot what else he had meant to say and pressed her against him so closely
that he seemed to feel her warmth in his veins.
“You ain’t crying are you, Matt?”
“No, of course I’m not,” she quavered.
They turned in at the gate and passed under the shaded knoll where,
enclosed in a low fence, the Frome grave-stones slanted at crazy angles
through the snow. Ethan looked at them curiously. For years that quiet
company had mocked his restlessness, his desire for change and freedom.
“We never got away—how should you?” seemed to be written on every
headstone; and whenever he went in or out of his gate he thought with a
shiver: “I shall just go on living here till I join them.” But now all desire for
change had vanished, and the sight of the little enclosure gave him a warm
sense of continuance and stability.
“I guess we’ll never let you go, Matt,” he whispered, as though even the
dead, lovers once, must conspire with him to keep her; and brushing by the
graves, he thought: “We’ll always go on living here together, and some day
she’ll lie there beside me.”

He let the vision possess him as they climbed the hill to the house. He was
never so happy with her as when he abandoned himself to these dreams. Half-
way up the slope Mattie stumbled against some unseen obstruction and
clutched his sleeve to steady herself. The wave of warmth that went through
him was like the prolongation of his vision. For the first time he stole his arm
about her, and she did not resist. They walked on as if they were floating on a
summer stream.
Zeena always went to bed as soon as she had had her supper, and the
shutterless windows of the house were dark. A dead cucumber-vine dangled
from the porch like the crape streamer tied to the door for a death, and the
thought flashed through Ethan’s brain: “If it was there for Zeena—” Then he
had a distinct sight of his wife lying in their bedroom asleep, her mouth
slightly open, her false teeth in a tumbler by the bed ...
They walked around to the back of the house, between the rigid gooseberry
bushes. It was Zeena’s habit, when they came back late from the village, to
leave the key of the kitchen door under the mat. Ethan stood before the door,
his head heavy with dreams, his arm still about Mattie. “Matt—” he began,
not knowing what he meant to say.
She slipped out of his hold without speaking, and he stooped down and felt
for the key.
“It’s not there!” he said, straightening himself with a start.
They strained their eyes at each other through the icy darkness. Such a thing
had never happened before.
“Maybe she’s forgotten it,” Mattie said in a tremulous whisper; but both of
them knew that it was not like Zeena to forget.
“It might have fallen off into the snow,” Mattie continued, after a pause
during which they had stood intently listening.
“It must have been pushed off, then,” he rejoined in the same tone. Another
wild thought tore through him. What if tramps had been there—what if...
Again he listened, fancying he heard a distant sound in the house; then he
felt in his pocket for a match, and kneeling down, passed its light slowly over
the rough edges of snow about the doorstep.
He was still kneeling when his eyes, on a level with the lower panel of the
door, caught a faint ray beneath it. Who could be stirring in that silent house?
He heard a step on the stairs, and again for an instant the thought of tramps
tore through him. Then the door opened and he saw his wife.
Against the dark background of the kitchen she stood up tall and angular,

one hand drawing a quilted counterpane to her flat breast, while the other held
a lamp. The light, on a level with her chin, drew out of the darkness her
puckered throat and the projecting wrist of the hand that clutched the quilt,
and deepened fantastically the hollows and prominences of her high-boned
face under its ring of crimping-pins. To Ethan, still in the rosy haze of his
hour with Mattie, the sight came with the intense precision of the last dream
before waking. He felt as if he had never before known what his wife looked
like.
She drew aside without speaking, and Mattie and Ethan passed into the
kitchen, which had the deadly chill of a vault after the dry cold of the night.
“Guess you forgot about us, Zeena,” Ethan joked, stamping the snow from
his boots.
“No. I just felt so mean I couldn’t sleep.”
Mattie came forward, unwinding her wraps, the colour of the cherry scarf in
her fresh lips and cheeks. “I’m so sorry, Zeena! Isn’t there anything I can do?”
“No; there’s nothing.” Zeena turned away from her. “You might ‘a’ shook
off that snow outside,” she said to her husband.
She walked out of the kitchen ahead of them and pausing in the hall raised
the lamp at arm‘s-length, as if to light them up the stairs.
Ethan paused also, affecting to fumble for the peg on which he hung his
coat and cap. The doors of the two bedrooms faced each other across the
narrow upper landing, and to-night it was peculiarly repugnant to him that
Mattie should see him follow Zeena.
“I guess I won’t come up yet awhile,” he said, turning as if to go back to the
kitchen.
Zeena stopped short and looked at him. “For the land’s sake—what you
going to do down here?”
“I’ve got the mill accounts to go over.”
She continued to stare at him, the flame of the unshaded lamp bringing out
with microscopic cruelty the fretful lines of her face.
“At this time o’ night? You’ll ketch your death. The fire’s out long ago.”
Without answering he moved away toward the kitchen. As he did so his
glance crossed Mattie’s and he fancied that a fugitive warning gleamed
through her lashes. The next moment they sank to her flushed cheeks and she
began to mount the stairs ahead of Zeena.
“That’s so. It is powerful cold down here,” Ethan assented; and with

lowered head he went up in his wife’s wake, and followed her across the
threshold of their room.

CHAPTER THREE
THERE WAS SOME HAULING to be done at the lower end of the wood-lot,
and Ethan was out early the next day.
The winter morning was as clear as crystal. The sunrise burned red in a pure
sky, the shadows on the rim of the wood-lot were darkly blue, and beyond the
white and scintillating fields patches of far-off forest hung like smoke.
It was in the early morning stillness, when his muscles were swinging to
their familiar task and his lungs expanding with long draughts of mountain
air, that Ethan did his clearest thinking. He and Zeena had not exchanged a
word after the door of their room had closed on them. She had measured out
some drops from a medicine-bottle on a chair by the bed and, after
swallowing them, and wrapping her head in a piece of yellow flannel, had lain
down with her face turned away. Ethan undressed hurriedly and blew out the
light so that he should not see her when he took his place at her side. As he
lay there he could hear Mattie moving about in her room, and her candle,
sending its small ray across the landing, drew a scarcely perceptible line of
light under his door. He kept his eyes fixed on the light till it vanished. Then
the room grew perfectly black, and not a sound was audible but Zeena’s
asthmatic breathing. Ethan felt confusedly that there were many things he
ought to think about, but through his tingling veins and tired brain only one
sensation throbbed: the warmth of Mattie’s shoulder against his. Why had he
not kissed her when he held her there? A few hours earlier he would not have
asked himself the question. Even a few minutes earlier, when they had stood
alone outside the house, he would not have dared to think of kissing her. But
since he had seen her lips in the lamplight he felt that they were his.
Now, in the bright morning air, her face was still before him. It was part of
the sun’s red and of the pure glitter on the snow. How the girl had changed
since she had come to Starkfield! He remembered what a colourless slip of a
thing she had looked the day he had met her at the station. And all the first
winter, how she had shivered with cold when the northerly gales shook the
thin clap-boards and the snow beat like hail against the loose-hung windows!
He had been afraid that she would hate the hard life, the cold and loneliness;
but not a sign of discontent escaped her. Zeena took the view that Mattie was
bound to make the best of Starkfield since she hadn’t any other place to go to;

but this did not strike Ethan as conclusive. Zeena, at any rate, did not apply
the principle in her own case.
He felt all the more sorry for the girl because misfortune had, in a sense,
indentured her to them. Mattie Silver was the daughter of a cousin of Zenobia
Frome‘s, who had inflamed his clan with mingled sentiments of envy and
admiration by descending from the hills to Connecticut, where he had married
a Stamford girl and succeeded to her father’s thriving “drug” business.
Unhappily Orin Silver, a man of far-reaching aims, had died too soon to prove
that the end justifies the means. His accounts revealed merely what the means
had been; and these were such that it was fortunate for his wife and daughter
that his books were examined only after his impressive funeral. His wife died
of the disclosure, and Mattie, at twenty, was left alone to make her way on the
fifty dollars obtained from the sale of her piano. For this purpose her
equipment, though varied, was inadequate. She could trim a hat, make
molasses candy, recite “Curfew shall not ring to-night,” and play “The Lost
7
Chord” and a pot-pourri from “Carmen.” When she tried to extend the field
of her activities in the direction of stenography and book-keeping her health
broke down, and six months on her feet behind the counter of a department
store did not tend to restore it. Her nearest relations had been induced to place
their savings in her father’s hands, and though, after his death, they
ungrudgingly acquitted themselves of the Christian duty of returning good for
evil by giving his daughter all the advice at their disposal, they could hardly
be expected to supplement it by material aid. But when Zenobia’s doctor
recommended her looking about for some one to help her with the house-
work the clan instantly saw the chance of exacting a compensation from
Mattie. Zenobia, though doubtful of the girl’s efficiency, was tempted by the
freedom to find fault without much risk of losing her; and so Mattie came to
Starkfield.
Zenobia’s fault-finding was of the silent kind, but not the less penetrating
for that. During the first months Ethan alternately burned with the desire to
see Mattie defy her and trembled with fear of the result. Then the situation
grew less strained. The pure air, and the long summer hours in the open, gave
back life and elasticity to Mattie, and Zeena, with more leisure to devote to
her complex ailments, grew less watchful of the girl’s omissions; so that
Ethan, struggling on under the burden of his barren farm and failing saw-mill,
could at least imagine that peace reigned in his house.
There was really, even now, no tangible evidence to the contrary; but since
the previous night a vague dread had hung on his sky-line. It was formed of
Zeena’s obstinate silence, of Mattie’s sudden look of warning, of the memory

of just such fleeting imperceptible signs as those which told him, on certain
stainless mornings, that before night there would be rain.
His dread was so strong that, man-like, he sought to postpone certainty. The
hauling was not over till mid-day, and as the lumber was to be delivered to
Andrew Hale, the Starkfield builder, it was really easier for Ethan to send
8
Jotham Powell, the hired man, back to the farm on foot, and drive the load
9
down to the village himself He had scrambled up on the logs, and was sitting
astride of them, close over his shaggy grays, when, coming between him and
their streaming necks, he had a vision of the warning look that Mattie had
given him the night before.
“If there’s going to be any trouble I want to be there,” was his vague
reflection, as he threw to Jotham the unexpected order to unhitch the team and
lead them back to the barn.
It was a slow trudge home through the heavy fields, and when the two men
entered the kitchen Mattie was lifting the coffee from the stove and Zeena
was already at the table. Her husband stopped short at sight of her. Instead of
her usual calico wrapper and knitted shawl she wore her best dress of brown
merino, and above her thin strands of hair, which still preserved the tight
undulations of the crimping-pins, rose a hard perpendicular bonnet, as to
which Ethan’s clearest notion was that he had to pay five dollars for it at the
Bettsbridge Emporium. On the floor beside her stood his old valise and a
bandbox wrapped in newspapers.
“Why, where are you going, Zeena?” he exclaimed.
“I’ve got my shooting pains so bad that I’m going over to Bettsbridge to
spend the night with Aunt Martha Pierce and see that new doctor,” she
answered in a matter-of-fact tone, as if she had said she was going into the
store-room to take a look at the preserves, or up to the attic to go over the
blankets.
In spite of her sedentary habits such abrupt decisions were not without
precedent in Zeena’s history. Twice or thrice before she had suddenly packed
Ethan’s valise and started off to Bettsbridge, or even Springfield, to seek the
advice of some new doctor, and her husband had grown to dread these
expeditions because of their cost. Zeena always came back laden with
h
expensive remedies, and her last visit to Springfield had been
commemorated by her paying twenty dollars for an electric battery of which
she had never been able to learn the use. But for the moment his sense of
relief was so great as to preclude all other feelings. He had now no doubt that

Zeena had spoken the truth in saying, the night before, that she had sat up
because she felt “too mean” to sleep: her abrupt resolve to seek medical
advice showed that, as usual, she was wholly absorbed in her health.
As if expecting a protest, she continued plaintively; “If you’re too busy with
the hauling I presume you can let Jotham Powell drive me over with the sorrel
in time to ketch the train at the Flats.”
Her husband hardly heard what she was saying. During the winter months
there was no stage between Starkfield and Bettsbridge, and the trains which
stopped at Corbury Flats were slow and infrequent. A rapid calculation
showed Ethan that Zeena could not be back at the farm before the following
evening....
“If I’d supposed you’d ‘a’ made any objection to Jotham Powell’s driving
me over—” she began again, as though his silence had implied refusal. On the
brink of departure she was always seized with a flux of words. “All I know
is,” she continued, “I can’t go on the way I am much longer. The pains are
clear away down to my ankles now, or I’d ’a’ walked in to Starkfield on my
own feet, sooner’n put you out, and asked Michael Eady to let me ride over
on his wagon to the Flats, when he sends to meet the train that brings his
groceries. I’d ‘a’ had two hours to wait in the station, but I’d sooner ’a’ done
it, even with this cold, than to have you say—”
“Of course Jotham’ll drive you over,” Ethan roused himself to answer. He
became suddenly conscious that he was looking at Mattie while Zeena talked
to him, and with an effort he turned his eyes to his wife. She sat opposite the
window, and the pale light reflected from the banks of snow made her face
look more than usually drawn and bloodless, sharpened the three parallel
creases between ear and cheek, and drew querulous lines from her thin nose
to the corners of her mouth. Though she was but seven years her husband’s
senior, and he was only twenty-eight, she was already an old woman.
Ethan tried to say something befitting the occasion, but there was only one
thought in his mind: the fact that, for the first time since Mattie had come to
live with them, Zeena was to be away for a night. He wondered if the girl
were thinking of it too....
He knew that Zeena must be wondering why he did not offer to drive her to
the Flats and let Jotham Powell take the lumber to Starkfield, and at first he
could not think of a pretext for not doing so; then he said: “I’d take you over
myself, only I’ve got to collect the cash for the lumber.”
As soon as the words were spoken he regretted them, not only because they
were untrue—there being no prospect of his receiving cash payment from

Hale—but also because he knew from experience the imprudence of letting
Zeena think he was in funds on the eve of one of her therapeutic excursions.
At the moment, however, his one desire was to avoid the long drive with her
behind the ancient sorrel who never went out of a walk.
Zeena made no reply: she did not seem to hear what he had said. She had
already pushed her plate aside, and was measuring out a draught from a large
bottle at her elbow.
“It ain’t done me a speck of good, but I guess I might as well use it up,” she
remarked; adding, as she pushed the empty bottle toward Mattie: “If you can
get the taste out it’ll do for pickles.”

CHAPTER FOUR
As SOON AS His wife had driven off Ethan took his coat and cap from the
peg. Mattie was washing up the dishes, humming one of the dance tunes of
the night before. He said “So long, Matt,” and she answered gaily “So long,
Ethan”; and that was all.
It was warm and bright in the kitchen. The sun slanted through the south
window on the girl’s moving figure, on the cat dozing in a chair, and on the
geraniums brought in from the door-way, where Ethan had planted them in
the summer to “make a garden” for Mattie. He would have liked to linger on,
watching her tidy up and then settle down to her sewing; but he wanted still
more to get the hauling done and be back at the farm before night.
All the way down to the village he continued to think of his return to Mattie.
The kitchen was a poor place, not “spruce” and shining as his mother had kept
it in his boyhood; but it was surprising what a homelike look the mere fact of
Zeena’s absence gave it. And he pictured what it would be like that evening,
when he and Mattie were there after supper. For the first time they would be
alone together indoors, and they would sit there, one on each side of the stove,
like a married couple, he in his stocking feet and smoking his pipe, she
laughing and talking in that funny way she had, which was always as new to
him as if he had never heard her before.
The sweetness of the picture, and the relief of knowing that his fears of
“trouble” with Zeena were unfounded, sent up his spirits with a rush, and he,
who was usually so silent, whistled and sang aloud as he drove through the
snowy fields. There was in him a slumbering spark of sociability which the
long Starkfield winters had not yet extinguished. By nature grave and
inarticulate, he admired recklessness and gaiety in others and was warmed to
the marrow by friendly human intercourse. At Worcester, though he had the
name of keeping to himself and not being much of a hand at a good time, he
had secretly gloried in being clapped on the back and hailed as “Old Ethe” or
“Old Stiff”; and the cessation of such familiarities had increased the chill of
his return to Starkfield.
There the silence had deepened about him year by year. Left alone, after his
father’s accident, to carry the burden of farm and mill, he had had no time for
convivial loiterings in the village; and when his mother fell ill the loneliness

of the house grew more oppressive than that of the fields. His mother had
been a talker in her day, but after her “trouble” the sound of her voice was
seldom heard, though she had not lost the power of speech. Sometimes, in the
long winter evenings, when in desperation her son asked her why she didn’t
“say something,” she would lift a finger and answer: “Because I’m listening”;
and on stormy nights, when the loud wind was about the house, she would
complain, if he spoke to her: “They’re talking so out there that I can’t hear
you.”
It was only when she drew toward her last illness, and his cousin Zenobia
Pierce came over from the next valley to help him nurse her, that human
speech was heard again in the house. After the mortal silence of his long
imprisonment Zeena’s volubility was music in his ears. He felt that he might
have “gone like his mother” if the sound of a new voice had not come to
steady him. Zeena seemed to understand his case at a glance. She laughed at
him for not knowing the simplest sick-bed duties and told him to “go right
along out” and leave her to see to things. The mere fact of obeying her orders,
of feeling free to go about his business again and talk with other men, restored
his shaken balance and magnified his sense of what he owed her. Her
efficiency shamed and dazzled him. She seemed to possess by instinct all the
household wisdom that his long apprenticeship had not instilled in him. When
the end came it was she who had to tell him to hitch up and go for the
undertaker, and she thought it “funny” that he had not settled beforehand who
was to have his mother’s clothes and the sewing-machine. After the funeral,
when he saw her preparing to go away, he was seized with an unreasoning
dread of being left alone on the farm; and before he knew what he was doing
he had asked her to stay there with him. He had often thought since that it
would not have happened if his mother had died in spring instead of winter ...
When they married it was agreed that, as soon as he could straighten out the
difficulties resulting from Mrs. Frome’s long illness, they would sell the farm
and saw-mill and try their luck in a large town. Ethan’s love of nature did not
take the form of a taste for agriculture. He had always wanted to be an
engineer, and to live in towns, where there were lectures and big libraries and
“fellows doing things.” A slight engineering job in Florida, put in his way
10
during his period of study at Worcester, increased his faith in his ability as
well as his eagerness to see the world; and he felt sure that, with a “smart”
wife like Zeena, it would not be long before he had made himself a place in it.
Zeena’s native village was slightly larger and nearer to the railway than
Starkfield, and she had let her husband see from the first that life on an
isolated farm was not what she had expected when she married. But

purchasers were slow in coming, and while he waited for them Ethan learned
the impossibility of transplanting her. She chose to look down on Starkfield,
but she could not have lived in a place which looked down on her. Even
Bettsbridge or Shadd’s Falls would not have been sufficiently aware of her,
and in the greater cities which attracted Ethan she would have suffered a
complete loss of identity. And within a year of their marriage she developed
the “sickliness” which had since made her notable even in a community rich
in pathological instances. When she came to take care of his mother she had
seemed to Ethan like the very genius of health, but he soon saw that her skill
as a nurse had been acquired by the absorbed observation of her own
symptoms.
Then she too fell silent. Perhaps it was the inevitable effect of life on the
farm, or perhaps, as she sometimes said, it was because Ethan “never
listened.” The charge was not wholly unfounded. When she spoke it was only
to complain, and to complain of things not in his power to remedy; and to
check a tendency to impatient retort he had first formed the habit of not
answering her, and finally of thinking of other things while she talked. Of
late, however, since he had had reasons for observing her more closely, her
silence had begun to trouble him. He recalled his mother’s growing
taciturnity, and wondered if Zeena were also turning “queer.” Women did, he
knew. Zeena, who had at her fingers’ ends the pathological chart of the whole
region, had cited many cases of the kind while she was nursing his mother;
and he himself knew of certain lonely farm-houses in the neighbourhood
where stricken creatures pined, and of others where sudden tragedy had come
of their presence. At times, looking at Zeena’s shut face, he felt the chill of
such forebodings. At other times her silence seemed deliberately assumed to
conceal far-reaching intentions, mysterious conclusions drawn from
suspicions and resentments impossible to guess. That supposition was even
more disturbing than the other; and it was the one which had come to him the
night before, when he had seen her standing in the kitchen door.
Now her departure for Bettsbridge had once more eased his mind, and all
his thoughts were on the prospect of his evening with Mattie. Only one thing
weighed on him, and that was his having told Zeena that he was to receive
cash for the lumber. He foresaw so clearly the consequences of this
imprudence that with considerable reluctance he decided to ask Andrew Hale
for a small advance on his load.
When Ethan drove into Hale’s yard the builder was just getting out of his
sleigh.
“Hello, Ethe!” he said. “This comes handy.”

Andrew Hale was a ruddy man with a big grey moustache and a stubbly
double-chin unconstrained by a collar; but his scrupulously clean shirt was
always fastened by a small diamond stud. This display of opulence was
misleading, for though he did a fairly good business it was known that his
easygoing habits and the demands of his large family frequently kept him
what Starkfield called “behind.” He was an old friend of Ethan’s family, and
his house one of the few to which Zeena occasionally went, drawn there by
the fact that Mrs. Hale, in her youth, had done more “doctoring” than any
other woman in Starkfield, and was still a recognised authority on symptoms
and treatment.
Hale went up to the greys and patted their sweating flanks.
“Well, sir,” he said, “you keep them two as if they was pets.”
Ethan set about unloading the logs and when he had finished his job he
pushed open the glazed door of the shed which the builder used as his office.
Hale sat with his feet up on the stove, his back propped against a battered
desk strewn with papers: the place, like the man, was warm, genial and
untidy.
“Sit right down and thaw out,” he greeted Ethan.
The latter did not know how to begin, but at length he managed to bring out
his request for an advance of fifty dollars. The blood rushed to his thin skin
under the sting of Hale’s astonishment. It was the builder’s custom to pay at
the end of three months, and there was no precedent between the two men for
a cash settlement.
Ethan felt that if he had pleaded an urgent need Hale might have made shift
to pay him; but pride, and an instinctive prudence, kept him from resorting to
this argument. After his father’s death it had taken time to get his head above
water, and he did not want Andrew Hale, or any one else in Starkfield, to
think he was going under again. Besides, he hated lying; if he wanted the
money he wanted it, and it was nobody’s business to ask why. He therefore
made his demand with the awkwardness of a proud man who will not admit to
himself that he is stooping; and he was not much surprised at Hale’s refusal.
The builder refused genially, as he did everything else: he treated the matter
as something in the nature of a practical joke, and wanted to know if Ethan
meditated buying a grand piano or adding a “cupolo” to his house; offering, in
the latter case, to give his services free of cost.
Ethan’s arts were soon exhausted, and after an embarrassed pause he wished
Hale good day and opened the door of the office. As he passed out the builder

suddenly called after him: “See here—you ain’t in a tight place, are you?”
“Not a bit,” Ethan’s pride retorted before his reason had time to intervene.
“Well, that’s good! Because I am, a shade. Fact is, I was going to ask you to
give me a little extra time on that payment. Business is pretty slack, to begin
with, and then I’m fixing up a little house for Ned and Ruth when they’re
married. I’m glad to do it for‘em, but it costs.” His look appealed to Ethan for
sympathy. “The young people like things nice. You know how it is yourself:
it’s not so long ago since you fixed up your own place for Zeena.”
Ethan left the greys in Hale’s stable and went about some other business in
the village. As he walked away the builder’s last phrase lingered in his ears,
and he reflected grimly that his seven years with Zeena seemed to Starkfield
“not so long.”
The afternoon was drawing to an end, and here and there a lighted pane
spangled the cold grey dusk and made the snow look whiter. The bitter
weather had driven every one indoors and Ethan had the long rural street to
himself Suddenly he heard the brisk play of sleigh-bells and a cutter passed
him, drawn by a free-going horse. Ethan recognised Michael Eady’s roan colt,
and young Denis Eady, in a handsome new fur cap, leaned forward and waved
a greeting. “Hello, Ethe!” he shouted and spun on.
The cutter was going in the direction of the Frome farm, and Ethan’s heart
contracted as he listened to the dwindling bells. What more likely than that
Denis Eady had heard of Zeena’s departure for Bettsbridge, and was profiting
by the opportunity to spend an hour with Mattie? Ethan was ashamed of the
storm of jealousy in his breast. It seemed unworthy of the girl that his
thoughts of her should be so violent.
He walked on to the church corner and entered the shade of the Varnum
spruces, where he had stood with her the night before. As he passed into their
gloom he saw an indistinct outline just ahead of him. At his approach it
melted for an instant into two separate shapes and then conjoined again, and
he heard a kiss, and a half-laughing “Oh!” provoked by the discovery of his
presence. Again the outline hastily disunited and the Varnum gate slammed
on one half while the other hurried on ahead of him. Ethan smiled at the
discomfiture he had caused. What did it matter to Ned Hale and Ruth Varnum
if they were caught kissing each other? Everybody in Starkfield knew they
were engaged. It pleased Ethan to have surprised a pair of lovers on the spot
where he and Mattie had stood with such a thirst for each other in their hearts;
but he felt a pang at the thought that these two need not hide their happiness.

He fetched the grays from Hale’s stable and started on his long climb back
to the farm. The cold was less sharp than earlier in the day and a thick fleecy
sky threatened snow for the morrow. Here and there a star pricked through,
showing behind it a deep well of blue. In an hour or two the moon would push
over the ridge behind the farm, burn a gold-edged rent in the clouds, and then
be swallowed by them. A mournful peace hung on the fields, as though they
felt the relaxing grasp of the cold and stretched themselves in their long
winter sleep.
Ethan’s ears were alert for the jingle of sleigh-bells, but not a sound broke
the silence of the lonely road. As he drew near the farm he saw, through the
thin screen of larches at the gate, a light twinkling in the house above him.
“She’s up in her room,” he said to himself, “fixing herself up for supper”; and
he remembered Zeena’s sarcastic stare when Mattie, on the evening of her
arrival, had come down to supper with smoothed hair and a ribbon at her
neck.
He passed by the graves on the knoll and turned his head to glance at one of
the older headstones, which had interested him deeply as a boy because it
bore his name.
SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF
11
ETHAN FROME AND ENDURANCE HIS WIFE,
WHO DWELLED TOGETHER IN PEACE
FOR FIFTY YEARS.
He used to think that fifty years sounded like a long time to live together,
but now it seemed to him that they might pass in a flash. Then, with a sudden
dart of irony, he wondered if, when their turn came, the same epitaph would
be written over him and Zeena.
He opened the barn-door and craned his head into the obscurity, half-fearing
to discover Denis Eady’s roan colt in the stall beside the sorrel. But the old
horse was there alone, mumbling his crib with toothless jaws, and Ethan
whistled cheerfully while he bedded down the greys and shook an extra
measure of oats into their mangers. His was not a tuneful throat, but harsh
melodies burst from it as he locked the barn and sprang up the hill to the
house. He reached the kitchen-porch and turned the door-handle; but the door
did not yield to his touch.
Startled at finding it locked he rattled the handle violently; then he reflected
that Mattie was alone and that it was natural she should barricade herself at
nightfall. He stood in the darkness expecting to hear her step. It did not come,
and after vainly straining his ears he called out in a voice that shook with joy:

“Hello, Matt!”
Silence answered; but in a minute or two he caught a sound on the stairs and
saw a line of light about the door-frame, as he had seen it the night before. So
strange was the precision with which the incidents of the previous evening
were repeating themselves that he half expected, when he heard the key turn,
to see his wife before him on the threshold; but the door opened, and Mattie
faced him.
She stood just as Zeena had stood, a lifted lamp in her hand, against the
black background of the kitchen. She held the light at the same level, and it
drew out with the same distinctness her slim young throat and the brown wrist
no bigger than a child’s. Then, striking upward, it threw a lustrous fleck on
her lips, edged her eyes with velvet shade, and laid a milky whiteness above
the black curve of her brows.
She wore her usual dress of darkish stuff, and there was no bow at her neck;
but through her hair she had run a streak of crimson ribbon. This tribute to the
unusual transformed and glorified her. She seemed to Ethan taller, fuller, more
womanly in shape and motion. She stood aside, smiling silently, while he
entered, and then moved away from him with something soft and flowing in
her gait. She set the lamp on the table, and he saw that it was carefully laid for
supper, with fresh dough-nuts, stewed blueberries and his favourite pickles in
a dish of gay red glass. A bright fire glowed in the stove and the cat lay
stretched before it, watching the table with a drowsy eye.
Ethan was suffocated with the sense of well-being. He went out into the
passage to hang up his coat and pull off his wet boots. When he came back
Mattie had set the teapot on the table and the cat was rubbing itself
persuasively against her ankles.
“Why, Puss! I nearly tripped over you,” she cried, the laughter sparkling
through her lashes.
Again Ethan felt a sudden twinge of jealousy. Could it be his coming that
gave her such a kindled face?
“Well, Matt, any visitors?” he threw off, stooping down carelessly to
examine the fastening of the stove.
She nodded and laughed “Yes, one,” and he felt a blackness settling on his
brows.
“Who was that?” he questioned, raising himself up to slant a glance at her
beneath his scowl.
Her eyes danced with malice. “Why, Jotham Powell. He came in after he

got back, and asked for a drop of coffee before he went down home.”
The blackness lifted and light flooded Ethan’s brain. “That all? Well, I hope
you made out to let him have it.” And after a pause he felt it right to add: “I
suppose he got Zeena over to the Flats all right?”
“Oh, yes; in plenty of time.”
The name threw a chill between them, and they stood a moment looking
sideways at each other before Mattie said with a shy laugh. “I guess it’s about
time for supper.”
They drew their seats up to the table, and the cat, unbidden, jumped
between them into Zeena’s empty chair. “Oh, Puss!” said Mattie, and they
laughed again.
Ethan, a moment earlier, had felt himself on the brink of eloquence ; but the
mention of Zeena had paralysed him. Mattie seemed to feel the contagion of
his embarrassment, and sat with downcast lids, sipping her tea, while he
feigned an insatiable appetite for dough-nuts and sweet pickles. At last, after
casting about for an effective opening, he took a long gulp of tea, cleared his
throat, and said: “Looks as if there’d be more snow.”
She feigned great interest. “Is that so? Do you suppose it’ll interfere with
Zeena’s getting back?” She flushed red as the question escaped her, and
hastily set down the cup she was lifting.
Ethan reached over for another helping of pickles. “You never can tell, this
time of year, it drifts so bad on the Flats.” The name had benumbed him
again, and once more he felt as if Zeena were in the room between them.
“Oh, Puss, you’re too greedy! ” Mattie cried.
The cat, unnoticed, had crept up on muffled paws from Zeena’s seat to the
table, and was stealthily elongating its body in the direction of the milk-jug,
which stood between Ethan and Mattie. The two leaned forward at the same
moment and their hands met on the handle of the jug. Mattie’s hand was
underneath, and Ethan kept his clasped on it a moment longer than was
necessary. The cat, profiting by this unusual demonstration, tried to effect an
unnoticed retreat, and in doing so backed into the pickle-dish, which fell to
the floor with a crash.
Mattie, in an instant, had sprung from her chair and was down on her knees
by the fragments.
“Oh, Ethan, Ethan—it’s all to pieces! What will Zeena say?”
But this time his courage was up. “Well, she’ll have to say it to the cat, any

way!” he rejoined with a laugh, kneeling down at Mattie’s side to scrape up
the swimming pickles.
She lifted stricken eyes to him. “Yes, but, you see, she never meant it should
be used, not even when there was company; and I had to get up on the step-
ladder to reach it down from the top shelf of the china-closet, where she keeps
it with all her best things, and of course she’ll want to know why I did it—”
The case was so serious that it called forth all of Ethan’s latent resolution.
“She needn’t know anything about it if you keep quiet. I’ll get another just
like it to-morrow. Where did it come from? I’ll go to Shadd’s Falls for it if I
have to!”
“Oh, you’ll never get another even there! It was a wedding present—don’t
you remember? It came all the way from Philadelphia, from Zeena’s aunt that
married the minister. That’s why she wouldn’t ever use it. Oh, Ethan, Ethan,
what in the world shall I do?”
She began to cry, and he felt as if every one of her tears were pouring over
him like burning lead. “Don‘t, Matt, don’t—oh, don‘t!” he implored her.
She struggled to her feet, and he rose and followed her helplessly while she
spread out the pieces of glass on the kitchen dresser. It seemed to him as if the
shattered fragments of their evening lay there.
“Here, give them to me,” he said in a voice of sudden authority.
She drew aside, instinctively obeying his tone. “Oh, Ethan, what are you
going to do?”
Without replying he gathered the pieces of glass into his broad palm and
walked out of the kitchen to the passage. There he lit a candle-end, opened the
china-closet, and, reaching his long arm up to the highest shelf, laid the pieces
together with such accuracy of touch that a close inspection convinced him of
the impossibility of detecting from below that the dish was broken. If he
glued it together the next morning months might elapse before his wife
noticed what had happened, and meanwhile he might after all be able to
match the dish at Shadd’s Falls or Bettsbridge. Having satisfied himself that
there was no risk of immediate discovery he went back to the kitchen with a
lighter step, and found Mattie disconsolately removing the last scraps of
pickle from the floor.
“It’s all right, Matt. Come back and finish supper,” he commanded her.
Completely reassured, she shone on him through tear-hung lashes, and his
soul swelled with pride as he saw how his tone subdued her. She did not even
ask what he had done. Except when he was steering a big log down the

mountain to his mill he had never known such a thrilling sense of mastery.

CHAPTER FIVE
THEY FINISHED SUPPER, AND while Mattie cleared the table Ethan went
to look at the cows and then took a last turn about the house. The earth lay
dark under a muffled sky and the air was so still that now and then he heard a
lump of snow come thumping down from a tree far off on the edge of the
wood-lot.
When he returned to the kitchen Mattie had pushed up his chair to the stove
and seated herself near the lamp with a bit of sewing. The scene was just as he
had dreamed of it that morning. He sat down, drew his pipe from his pocket
and stretched his feet to the glow. His hard day’s work in the keen air made
him feel at once lazy and light of mood, and he had a confused sense of being
in another world, where all was warmth and harmony and time could bring no
change. The only drawback to his complete well-being was the fact that he
could not see Mattie from where he sat; but he was too indolent to move and
after a moment he said: “Come over here and sit by the stove.”
Zeena’s empty rocking-chair stood facing him. Mattie rose obediently, and
seated herself in it. As her young brown head detached itself against the
patch-work cushion that habitually framed his wife’s gaunt countenance,
Ethan had a momentary shock. It was almost as if the other face, the face of
the superseded woman, had obliterated that of the intruder. After a moment
Mattie seemed to be affected by the same sense of constraint. She changed her
position, leaning forward to bend her head above her work, so that he saw
only the foreshortened tip of her nose and the streak of red in her hair; then
she slipped to her feet, saying “I can’t see to sew,” and went back to her chair
by the lamp.
Ethan made a pretext of getting up to replenish the stove, and when he
returned to his seat he pushed it sideways that he might get a view of her
profile and of the lamplight falling on her hands. The cat, who had been a
puzzled observer of these unusual movements, jumped up into Zeena’s chair,
rolled itself into a ball, and lay watching them with narrowed eyes.
Deep quiet sank on the room. The clock ticked above the dresser, a piece of
charred wood fell now and then in the stove, and the faint sharp scent of the
geraniums mingled with the odour of Ethan’s smoke, which began to throw a
blue haze about the lamp and to hang its greyish cobwebs in the shadowy

corners of the room.
All constraint had vanished between the two, and they began to talk easily
and simply. They spoke of every-day things, of the prospect of snow, of the
next church sociable, of the loves and quarrels of Starkfield. The
commonplace nature of what they said produced in Ethan an illusion of long-
established intimacy which no outburst of emotion could have given, and he
set his imagination adrift on the fiction that they had always spent their
evenings thus and would always go on doing so ...
“This is the night we were to have gone coasting, Matt,” he said at length,
with the rich sense, as he spoke, that they could go on any other night they
chose, since they had all time before them.
She smiled back at him. “I guess you forgot!”
“No, I didn’t forget; but it’s as dark as Egypt outdoors. We might go to-
morrow if there’s a moon.”
She laughed with pleasure, her head tilted back, the lamplight sparkling on
her lips and teeth. “That would be lovely, Ethan!”
He kept his eyes fixed on her, marvelling at the way her face changed with
each turn of their talk, like a wheat-field under a summer breeze. It was
intoxicating to find such magic in his clumsy words, and he longed to try new
ways of using it.
“Would you be scared to go down the Corbury road with me on a night like
this?” he asked.
Her cheeks burned redder. “I ain’t any more scared than you are!”
“Well, I’d be scared, then; I wouldn’t do it. That’s an ugly corner down by
the big elm. If a fellow didn’t keep his eyes open he’d go plumb into it.” He
luxuriated in the sense of protection and authority which his words conveyed.
To prolong and intensify the feeling he added: “I guess we’re well enough
here.”
She let her lids sink slowly, in the way he loved. “Yes, we’re well enough
here,” she sighed.
Her tone was so sweet that he took the pipe from his mouth and drew his
chair up to the table. Leaning forward, he touched the farther end of the strip
of brown stuff that she was hemming. “Say, Matt,” he began with a smile,
“what do you think I saw under the Varnum spruces, coming along home just
now? I saw a friend of yours getting kissed.”
The words had been on his tongue all the evening, but now that he had

spoken them they struck him as inexpressibly vulgar and out of place.
Mattie blushed to the roots of her hair and pulled her needle rapidly twice or
thrice through her work, insensibly drawing the end of it away from him. “I
suppose it was Ruth and Ned,” she said in a low voice, as though he had
suddenly touched on something grave.
Ethan had imagined that his allusion might open the way to the accepted
pleasantries, and these perhaps in turn to a harmless caress, if only a mere
touch on her hand. But now he felt as if her blush had set a flaming guard
about her. He supposed it was his natural awkwardness that made him feel so.
He knew that most young men made nothing at all of giving a pretty girl a
kiss, and he remembered that the night before, when he had put his arm about
Mattie, she had not resisted. But that had been out-of-doors, under the open
irresponsible night. Now, in the warm lamplit room, with all its ancient
implications of conformity and order, she seemed infinitely farther away from
him and more unapproachable.
To ease his constraint he said: “I suppose they’ll be setting a date before
long.”
“Yes. I shouldn’t wonder if they got married some time along in the
summer.” She pronounced the word married as if her voice caressed it. It
seemed a rustling covert leading to enchanted glades. A pang shot through
Ethan, and he said, twisting away from her in his chair: “It’ll be your turn
next, I wouldn’t wonder.”
She laughed a little uncertainly. “Why do you keep on saying that?”
He echoed her laugh. “I guess I do it to get used to the idea.”
He drew up to the table again and she sewed on in silence, with dropped
lashes, while he sat in fascinated contemplation of the way in which her hands
went up and down above the strip of stuff, just as he had seen a pair of birds
make short perpendicular flights over a nest they were building. At length,
without turning her head or lifting her lids, she said in a low tone: “It’s not
because you think Zeena’s got anything against me, is it?”
His former dread started up full-armed at the suggestion. “Why, what do
you mean?” he stammered.
She raised distressed eyes to his, her work dropping on the table between
them. “I don’t know. I thought last night she seemed to have.”
“I’d like to know what,” he growled.
“Nobody can tell with Zeena.” It was the first time they had ever spoken so
openly of her attitude toward Mattie, and the repetition of the name seemed to

carry it to the farther corners of the room and send it back to them in long
repercussions of sound. Mattie waited, as if to give the echo time to drop, and
then went on: “She hasn’t said anything to you?”
He shook his head. “No, not a word.”
She tossed the hair back from her forehead with a laugh. “I guess I’m just
nervous, then. I’m not going to think about it any more.”
“Oh, no—don’t let’s think about it, Matt!”
The sudden heat of his tone made her colour mount again, not with a rush,
but gradually, delicately, like the reflection of a thought stealing slowly across
her heart. She sat silent, her hands clasped on her work, and it seemed to him
that a warm current flowed toward him along the strip of stuff that still lay
unrolled between them. Cautiously he slid his hand palm-downward along the
table till his finger-tips touched the end of the stuff. A faint vibration of her
lashes seemed to show that she was aware of his gesture, and that it had sent a
counter-current back to her; and she let her hands lie motionless on the other
end of the strip.
As they sat thus he heard a sound behind him and turned his head. The cat
had jumped from Zeena’s chair to dart at a mouse in the wainscot, and as a
result of the sudden movement the empty chair had set up a spectral rocking.
“She’ll be rocking in it herself this time to-morrow,” Ethan thought. “I’ve
been in a dream, and this is the only evening we’ll ever have together.” The
return to reality was as painful as the return to consciousness after taking an
anaesthetic. His body and brain ached with indescribable weariness, and he
could think of nothing to say or to do that should arrest the mad flight of the
moments.
His alteration of mood seemed to have communicated itself to Mattie. She
looked up at him languidly, as though her lids were weighted with sleep and it
cost her an effort to raise them. Her glance fell on his hand, which now
completely covered the end of her work and grasped it as if it were a part of
herself. He saw a scarcely perceptible tremor cross her face, and without
knowing what he did he stooped his head and kissed the bit of stuff in his
hold. As his lips rested on it he felt it glide slowly from beneath them, and
saw that Mattie had risen and was silently rolling up her work. She fastened it
with a pin, and then, finding her thimble and scissors, put them with the roll
of stuff into the box covered with fancy paper which he had once brought to
her from Bettsbridge.
He stood up also, looking vaguely about the room. The clock above the

dresser struck eleven.
“Is the fire all right?” she asked in a low voice.
He opened the door of the stove and poked aimlessly at the embers. When
he raised himself again he saw that she was dragging toward the stove the old
soap-box lined with carpet in which the cat made its bed. Then she recrossed
the floor and lifted two of the geranium pots in her arms, moving them away
from the cold window. He followed her and brought the other geraniums, the
hyacinth bulbs in a cracked custard bowl and the German ivy trained over an
old croquet hoop.
When these nightly duties were performed there was nothing left to do but
to bring in the tin candlestick from the passage, light the candle and blow out
the lamp. Ethan put the candlestick in Mattie’s hand and she went out of the
kitchen ahead of him, the light that she carried before her making her dark
hair look like a drift of mist on the moon.
“Good night, Matt,” he said as she put her foot on the first step of the stairs.
She turned and looked at him a moment. “Good night, Ethan,” she
answered, and went up.
When the door of her room had closed on her he remembered that he had
not even touched her hand.

CHAPTER SIX
THE NEXT MORNING AT breakfast Jotham Powell was between them, and
Ethan tried to hide his joy under an air of exaggerated indifference, lounging
back in his chair to throw scraps to the cat, growling at the weather, and not
so much as offering to help Mattie when she rose to clear away the dishes.
He did not know why he was so irrationally happy, for nothing was changed
in his life or hers. He had not even touched the tip of her fingers or looked her
full in the eyes. But their evening together had given him a vision of what life
at her side might be, and he was glad now that he had done nothing to trouble
the sweetness of the picture. He had a fancy that she knew what had
restrained him ...
There was a last load of lumber to be hauled to the village, and Jotham
Powell—who did not work regularly for Ethan in winter—had “come round”
to help with the job. But a wet snow, melting to sleet, had fallen in the night
and turned the roads to glass. There was more wet in the air and it seemed
likely to both men that the weather would “milden” toward afternoon and
make the going safer. Ethan therefore proposed to his assistant that they
should load the sledge at the wood-lot, as they had done on the previous
morning, and put off the “teaming” to Starkfield till later in the day. This plan
had the advantage of enabling him to send Jotham to the Flats after dinner to
meet Zenobia, while he himself took the lumber down to the village.
He told Jotham to go out and harness up the greys, and for a moment he and
Mattie had the kitchen to themselves. She had plunged the breakfast dishes
into a tin dish-pan and was bending above it with her slim arms bared to the
elbow, the steam from the hot water beading her forehead and tightening her
i
rough hair into little brown rings like the tendrils on the traveller’s joy.
Ethan stood looking at her, his heart in his throat. He wanted to say: “We
shall never be alone again like this.” Instead, he reached down his tobacco-
pouch from a shelf of the dresser, put it into his pocket and said: “I guess I
can make out to be home for dinner.”
She answered “All right, Ethan,” and he heard her singing over the dishes as
he went.
As soon as the sledge was loaded he meant to send Jotham back to the farm

and hurry on foot into the village to buy the glue for the pickle-dish. With
ordinary luck he should have had time to carry out this plan; but everything
went wrong from the start. On the way over to the wood-lot one of the greys
slipped on a glare of ice and cut his knee; and when they got him up again
Jotham had to go back to the barn for a strip of rag to bind the cut. Then,
when the loading finally began, a sleety rain was coming down once more,
and the tree trunks were so slippery that it took twice as long as usual to lift
them and get them in place on the sledge. It was what Jotham called a sour
morning for work, and the horses, shivering and stamping under their wet
blankets, seemed to like it as little as the men. It was long past the dinner-hour
when the job was done, and Ethan had to give up going to the village because
he wanted to lead the injured horse home and wash the cut himself.
He thought that by starting out again with the lumber as soon as he had
finished his dinner he might get back to the farm with the glue before Jotham
and the old sorrel had had time to fetch Zenobia from the Flats; but he knew
the chance was a slight one. It turned on the state of the roads and on the
possible lateness of the Bettsbridge train. He remembered afterward, with a
grim flash of self-derision, what importance he had attached to the weighing
of these probabilities ...
As soon as dinner was over he set out again for the wood-lot, not daring to
linger till Jotham Powell left. The hired man was still drying his wet feet at
the stove, and Ethan could only give Mattie a quick look as he said beneath
his breath: “I’ll be back early.”
He fancied that she nodded her comprehension; and with that scant solace
he had to trudge off through the rain.
He had driven his load half-way to the village when Jotham Powell
overtook him, urging the reluctant sorrel toward the Flats. “I’ll have to hurry
up to do it,” Ethan mused, as the sleigh dropped down ahead of him over the
dip of the school-house hill. He worked like ten at the unloading, and when it
was over hastened on to Michael Eady’s for the glue. Eady and his assistant
were both “down street,” and young Denis, who seldom deigned to take their
place, was lounging by the stove with a knot of the golden youth of
Starkfield. They hailed Ethan with ironic compliment and offers of
conviviality; but no one knew where to find the glue. Ethan, consumed with
the longing for a last moment alone with Mattie, hung about impatiently while
Denis made an ineffectual search in the obscurer corners of the store.
“Looks as if we were all sold out. But if you’ll wait around till the old man
comes along maybe he can put his hand on it.”

“I’m obliged to you, but I’ll try if I can get it down at Mrs. Homan‘s,”
Ethan answered, burning to be gone.
Denis’s commercial instinct compelled him to aver on oath that what Eady’s
store could not produce would never be found at the widow Homan’s; but
Ethan, heedless of this boast, had already climbed to the sledge and was
driving on to the rival establishment. Here, after considerable search, and
sympathetic questions as to what he wanted it for, and whether ordinary flour
paste wouldn’t do as well if she couldn’t find it, the widow Homan finally
hunted down her solitary bottle of glue to its hiding-place in a medley of
cough-lozenges and corset-laces.
“I hope Zeena ain’t broken anything she sets store by,” she called after him
as he turned the greys toward home.
The fitful bursts of sleet had changed into a steady rain and the horses had
heavy work even without a load behind them. Once or twice, hearing sleigh-
bells, Ethan turned his head, fancying that Zeena and Jotham might overtake
him; but the old sorrel was not in sight, and he set his face against the rain and
urged on his ponderous pair.
The barn was empty when the horses turned into it and, after giving them
the most perfunctory ministrations they had ever received from him, he strode
up to the house and pushed open the kitchen door.
Mattie was there alone, as he had pictured her. She was bending over a pan
on the stove; but at the sound of his step she turned with a start and sprang to
him.
“See, here, Matt, I’ve got some stuff to mend the dish with! Let me get at it
quick,” he cried, waving the bottle in one hand while he put her lightly aside;
but she did not seem to hear him.
“Oh, Ethan—Zeena’s come,” she said in a whisper, clutching his sleeve.
They stood and stared at each other, pale as culprits.
“But the sorrel’s not in the barn!” Ethan stammered.
“Jotham Powell brought some goods over from the Flats for his wife, and he
drove right on home with them,” she explained.
He gazed blankly about the kitchen, which looked cold and squalid in the
rainy winter twilight.
“How is she?” he asked, dropping his voice to Mattie’s whisper.
She looked away from him uncertainly. “I don’t know. She went right up to
her room.”

“She didn’t say anything?”
“No.”
Ethan let out his doubts in a low whistle and thrust the bottle back into his
pocket. “Don’t fret; I’ll come down and mend it in the night,” he said. He
pulled on his wet coat again and went back to the barn to feed the greys.
While he was there Jotham Powell drove up with the sleigh, and when the
horses had been attended to Ethan said to him: “You might as well come back
up for a bite.” He was not sorry to assure himself of Jotham’s neutralising
presence at the supper table, for Zeena was always “nervous” after a journey.
But the hired man, though seldom loth to accept a meal not included in his
wages, opened his stiff jaws to answer slowly: “I’m obliged to you, but I
guess I’ll go along back.”
Ethan looked at him in surprise. “Better come up and dry off. Looks as if
there’d be something hot for supper.”
Jotham’s facial muscles were unmoved by this appeal and, his vocabulary
being limited, he merely repeated: “I guess I’ll go along back.”
To Ethan there was something vaguely ominous in this stolid rejection of
free food and warmth, and he wondered what had happened on the drive to
nerve Jotham to such stoicism. Perhaps Zeena had failed to see the new
doctor or had not liked his counsels: Ethan knew that in such cases the first
person she met was likely to be held responsible for her grievance.
When he re-entered the kitchen the lamp lit up the same scene of shining
comfort as on the previous evening. The table had been as carefully laid, a
clear fire glowed in the stove, the cat dozed in its warmth, and Mattie came
forward carrying a plate of dough-nuts.
She and Ethan looked at each other in silence; then she said, as she had said
the night before: “I guess it’s about time for supper.”

CHAPTER SEVEN
ETHAN WENT OUT INTO the passage to hang up his wet garments. He
listened for Zeena’s step and, not hearing it, called her name up the stairs. She
did not answer, and after a moment’s hesitation he went up and opened her
door. The room was almost dark, but in the obscurity he saw her sitting by the
window, bolt upright, and knew by the rigidity of the outline projected against
the pane that she had not taken off her travelling dress.
“Well, Zeena,” he ventured from the threshold.
She did not move, and he continued: “Supper’s about ready. Ain’t you
coming?”
She replied: “I don’t feel as if I could touch a morsel.”
It was the consecrated formula, and he expected it to be followed, as usual,
by her rising and going down to supper. But she remained seated, and he
could think of nothing more felicitous than: “I presume you’re tired after the
long ride.”
Turning her head at this, she answered solemnly: “I’m a great deal sicker
than you think.”
Her words fell on his ear with a strange shock of wonder. He had often
heard her pronounce them before—what if at last they were true?
He advanced a step or two into the dim room. “I hope that’s not so, Zeena,”
he said.
She continued to gaze at him through the twilight with a mien of wan
authority, as of one consciously singled out for a great fate. “I’ve got
complications,” she said.
Ethan knew the word for one of exceptional import. Almost everybody in
the neighbourhood had “troubles,” frankly localized and specified; but only
the chosen had “complications.” To have them was in itself a distinction,
though it was also, in most cases, a death-warrant. People struggled on for
years with “troubles,” but they almost always succumbed to “complications.”
Ethan’s heart was jerking to and fro between two extremities of feeling, but
for the moment compassion prevailed. His wife looked so hard and lonely,
sitting there in the darkness with such thoughts.

“Is that what the new doctor told you?” he asked, instinctively lowering his
voice.
“Yes. He says any regular doctor would want me to have an operation.”
Ethan was aware that, in regard to the important question of surgical
intervention, the female opinion of the neighbourhood was divided, some
glorying in the prestige conferred by operations while others shunned them as
indelicate. Ethan, from motives of economy, had always been glad that Zeena
was of the latter faction.
In the agitation caused by the gravity of her announcement he sought a
consolatory short cut. “What do you know about this doctor anyway? Nobody
ever told you that before.”
He saw his blunder before she could take it up: she wanted sympathy, not
consolation.
“I didn’t need to have anybody tell me I was losing ground every day.
Everybody but you could see it. And everybody in Bettsbridge knows about
Dr. Buck. He has his office in Worcester, and comes over once a fortnight to
Shadd’s Falls and Bettsbridge for consultations. Eliza Spears was wasting
away with kidney trouble before she went to him, and now she’s up and
around, and singing in the choir.”
“Well, I’m glad of that. You must do just what he tells you,” Ethan
answered sympathetically.
She was still looking at him. “I mean to,” she said. He was struck by a new
note in her voice. It was neither whining nor reproachful, but drily resolute.
“What does he want you should do?” he asked, with a mounting vision of
fresh expenses.
“He wants I should have a hired girl. He says I oughtn’t to have to do a
single thing around the house.”
“A hired girl?” Ethan stood transfixed.
“Yes. And Aunt Martha found me one right off. Everybody said I was lucky
to get a girl to come away out here, and I agreed to give her a dollar extry to
make sure. She’ll be over to-morrow after noon.”
Wrath and dismay contended in Ethan. He had foreseen an immediate
demand for money, but not a permanent drain on his scant resources. He no
longer believed what Zeena had told him of the supposed seriousness of her
state: he saw in her expedition to Bettsbridge only a plot hatched between
herself and her Pierce relations to foist on him the cost of a servant; and for

the moment wrath predominated.
“If you meant to engage a girl you ought to have told me before you
started,” he said.
“How could I tell you before I started? How did I know what Dr. Buck
would say?”
“Oh, Dr. Buck—” Ethan’s incredulity escaped in a short laugh. “Did Dr.
Buck tell you how I was to pay her wages?”
Her voice rose furiously with his. “No, he didn’t. For I’d ‘a’ been ashamed
to tell him that you grudged me the money to get back my health, when I lost
it nursing your own mother!”
“You lost your health nursing mother?”
“Yes; and my folks all told me at the time you couldn’t do no less than
marry me after—”
“Zeena!”
Through the obscurity which hid their faces their thoughts seemed to dart at
each other like serpents shooting venom. Ethan was seized with horror of the
scene and shame at his own share in it. It was as senseless and savage as a
physical fight between two enemies in the darkness.
He turned to the shelf above the chimney, groped for matches and lit the one
candle in the room. At first its weak flame made no impression on the
shadows; then Zeena’s face stood grimly out against the uncurtained pane,
which had turned from grey to black.
It was the first scene of open anger between the couple in their sad seven
years together, and Ethan felt as if he had lost an irretrievable advantage in
descending to the level of recrimination. But the practical problem was there
and had to be dealt with.
“You know I haven’t got the money to pay for a girl, Zeena. You’ll have to
send her back: I can’t do it.”
“The doctor says it’ll be my death if I go on slaving the way I’ve had to. He
doesn’t understand how I’ve stood it as long as I have.”
“Slaving!—” He checked himself again, “You sha‘n’t lift a hand, if he says
so. I’ll do everything round the house myself—”
She broke in: “You’re neglecting the farm enough already,” and this being
true, he found no answer, and left her time to add ironically: “Better send me
over to the almshouse and done with it... I guess there’s been Fromes there
afore now.”

The taunt burned into him, but he let it pass. “I haven’t got the money. That
settles it.”
There was a moment’s pause in the struggle, as though the combatants were
testing their weapons. Then Zeena said in a level voice: “I thought you were
to get fifty dollars from Andrew Hale for that lumber.”
“Andrew Hale never pays under three months.” He had hardly spoken when
he remembered the excuse he had made for not accompanying his wife to the
station the day before; and the blood rose to his frowning brows.
“Why, you told me yesterday you’d fixed it up with him to pay cash down.
You said that was why you couldn’t drive me over to the Flats.”
Ethan had no suppleness in deceiving. He had never before been convicted
of a lie, and all the resources of evasion failed him. “I guess that was a
misunderstanding,” he stammered.
“You ain’t got the money?”
“No.”
“And you ain’t going to get it?”
“No.”
“Well, I couldn’t know that when I engaged the girl, could I?”
“No.” He paused to control his voice. “But you know it now. I’m sorry, but
it can’t be helped. You’re a poor man’s wife, Zeena; but I’ll do the best I can
for you.”
For a while she sat motionless, as if reflecting, her arms stretched along the
arms of her chair, her eyes fixed on vacancy. “Oh, I guess we’ll make out,”
she said mildly.
The change in her tone reassured him. “Of course we will! There’s a whole
lot more I can do for you, and Mattie—”
Zeena, while he spoke, seemed to be following out some elaborate mental
calculation. She emerged from it to say: “There’ll be Mattie’s board less,
anyhow—”
Ethan, supposing the discussion to be over, had turned to go down to
supper. He stopped short, not grasping what he heard. “Mattie’s board less
—?” he began.
Zeena laughed. It was an odd unfamiliar sound—he did not remember ever
having heard her laugh before. “You didn’t suppose I was going to keep two
girls, did you? No wonder you were scared at the expense!”

He still had but a confused sense of what she was saying. From the
beginning of the discussion he had instinctively avoided the mention of
Mattie’s name, fearing he hardly knew what: criticism, complaints, or vague
allusions to the imminent probability of her marrying. But the thought of a
definite rupture had never come to him, and even now could not lodge itself
in his mind.
“I don’t know what you mean,” he said. “Mattie Silver’s not a hired girl.
She’s your relation.”
“She’s a pauper that’s hung onto us all after her father’d done his best to
ruin us. I’ve kep’ her here a whole year: it’s somebody else’s turn now.”
As the shrill words shot out Ethan heard a tap on the door, which he had
drawn shut when he turned back from the threshold.
“Ethan—Zeena!” Mattie’s voice sounded gaily from the landing, “do you
know what time it is? Supper’s been ready half an hour.”
Inside the room there was a moment’s silence; then Zeena called out from
her seat: “I’m not coming down to supper.”
“Oh, I’m sorry! Aren’t you well? Sha‘n’t I bring you up a bite of
something?”
Ethan roused himself with an effort and opened the door. “Go along down,
Matt. Zeena’s just a little tired. I’m coming.”
He heard her “All right!” and her quick step on the stairs; then he shut the
door and turned back into the room. His wife’s attitude was unchanged, her
face inexorable, and he was seized with the despairing sense of his
helplessness.
“You ain’t going to do it, Zeena?”
“Do what?” she emitted between flattened lips.
“Send Mattie away—like this?”
“I never bargained to take her for life!”
He continued with rising vehemence: “You can’t put her out of the house
like a thief—a poor girl without friends or money. She’s done her best for you
and she’s got no place to go to. You may forget she’s your kin but everybody
else’ll remember it. If you do a thing like that what do you suppose folks’ll
say of you?”
Zeena waited a moment, as if giving him time to feel the full force of the
contrast between his own excitement and her composure. Then she replied in
the same smooth voice: “I know well enough what they say of my having

kep’ her here as long as I have.”
Ethan’s hand dropped from the door-knob, which he had held clenched
since he had drawn the door shut on Mattie. His wife’s retort was like a knife-
cut across the sinews and he felt suddenly weak and powerless. He had meant
to humble himself, to argue that Mattie’s keep didn’t cost much, after all, that
he could make out to buy a stove and fix up a place in the attic for the hired
girl—but Zeena’s words revealed the peril of such pleadings.
“You mean to tell her she’s got to go—at once?” he faltered out, in terror of
letting his wife complete her sentence.
As if trying to make him see reason she replied impartially: “The girl will
be over from Bettsbridge to-morrow, and I presume she’s got to have
somewheres to sleep.”
Ethan looked at her with loathing. She was no longer the listless creature
who had lived at his side in a state of sullen self-absorption, but a mysterious
alien presence, an evil energy secreted from the long years of silent brooding.
It was the sense of his helplessness that sharpened his antipathy. There had
never been anything in her that one could appeal to; but as long as he could
ignore and command he had remained indifferent. Now she had mastered him
and he abhorred her. Mattie was her relation, not his: there were no means by
which he could compel her to keep the girl under her roof. All the long misery
of his baffled past, of his youth of failure, hardship and vain effort, rose up in
his soul in bitterness and seemed to take shape before him in the woman who
at every turn had barred his way. She had taken everything else from him; and
now she meant to take the one thing that made up for all the others. For a
moment such a flame of hate rose in him that it ran down his arm and
clenched his fist against her. He took a wild step forward and then stopped.
“You‘re—you’re not coming down?” he said in a bewildered voice.
“No. I guess I’ll lay down on the bed a little while,” she answered mildly;
and he turned and walked out of the room.
In the kitchen Mattie was sitting by the stove, the cat curled up on her
knees. She sprang to her feet as Ethan entered and carried the covered dish of
meat-pie to the table.
“I hope Zeena isn’t sick?” she asked.
“No.”
She shone at him across the table. “Well, sit right down then. You must be
starving.” She uncovered the pie and pushed it over to him. So they were to
have one more evening together, her happy eyes seemed to say!

He helped himself mechanically and began to eat; then disgust took him by
the throat and he laid down his fork.
Mattie’s tender gaze was on him and she marked the gesture.
“Why, Ethan, what’s the matter? Don’t it taste right?”
“Yes—it’s first-rate. Only I—” He pushed his plate away, rose from his
chair, and walked around the table to her side. She started up with frightened
eyes.
“Ethan, there’s something wrong! I knew there was!”
She seemed to melt against him in her terror, and he caught her in his arms,
held her fast there, felt her lashes beat his cheek like netted butterflies.
“What is it—what is it?” she stammered; but he had found her lips at last
and was drinking unconsciousness of everything but the joy they gave him.
She lingered a moment, caught in the same strong current; then she slipped
from him and drew back a step or two, pale and troubled. Her look smote him
with compunction, and he cried out, as if he saw her drowning in a dream:
“You can’t go, Matt! I’ll never let you!”
“Go—go?” she stammered. “Must I go?”
The words went on sounding between them as though a torch of warning
flew from hand to hand through a black landscape.
Ethan was overcome with shame at his lack of self-control in flinging the
news at her so brutally. His head reeled and he had to support himself against
the table. All the while he felt as if he were still kissing her, and yet dying of
thirst for her lips.
“Ethan, what has happened? Is Zeena mad with me?”
Her cry steadied him, though it deepened his wrath and pity. “No, no,” he
assured her, “it’s not that. But this new doctor has scared her about herself.
You know she believes all they say the first time she sees them. And this
one’s told her she won’t get well unless she lays up and don’t do a thing about
the house—not for months—”
He paused, his eyes wandering from her miserably. She stood silent a
moment, drooping before him like a broken branch. She was so small and
weak-looking that it wrung his heart; but suddenly she lifted her head and
looked straight at him. “And she wants somebody handier in my place? Is that
it?”
“That’s what she says to-night.”

“If she says it to-night she’ll say it to-morrow”
Both bowed to the inexorable truth: they knew that Zeena never changed
her mind, and that in her case a resolve once taken was equivalent to an act
performed.
There was a long silence between them; then Mattie said in a low voice:
“Don’t be too sorry, Ethan.”
“Oh, God—oh, God,” he groaned. The glow of passion he had felt for her
had melted to an aching tenderness. He saw her quick lids beating back the
tears, and longed to take her in his arms and soothe her.
“You’re letting your supper get cold,” she admonished him with a pale
gleam of gaiety.
“Oh, Matt—Matt—where’ll you go to?”
Her lids sank and a tremor crossed her face. He saw that for the first time
the thought of the future came to her distinctly. “I might get something to do
over at Stamford,” she faltered, as if knowing that he knew she had no hope.
He dropped back into his seat and hid his face in his hands. Despair seized
him at the thought of her setting out alone to renew the weary quest for work.
In the only place where she was known she was surrounded by indifference or
animosity; and what chance had she, inexperienced and untrained, among the
million bread-seekers of the cities? There came back to him miserable tales he
had heard at Worcester, and the faces of girls whose lives had begun as
hopefully as Mattie’s.... It was not possible to think of such things without a
revolt of his whole being. He sprang up suddenly.
“You can’t go, Matt! I won’t let you! She’s always had her way, but I mean
to have mine now—”
Mattie lifted her hand with a quick gesture, and he heard his wife’s step
behind him.
Zeena came into the room with her dragging down-at-the-heel step, and
quietly took her accustomed seat between them.
“I felt a little mite better, and Dr. Buck says I ought to eat all I can to keep
my strength up, even if I ain’t got any appetite,” she said in her flat whine,
reaching across Mattie for the teapot. Her “good” dress had been replaced by
the black calico and brown knitted shawl which formed her daily wear, and
with them she had put on her usual face and manner. She poured out her tea,
added a great deal of milk to it, helped herself largely to pie and pickles, and
made the familiar gesture of adjusting her false teeth before she began to eat.
The cat rubbed itself ingratiatingly against her, and she said “Good Pussy,”

stooped to stroke it and gave it a scrap of meat from her plate.
Ethan sat speechless, not pretending to eat, but Mattie nibbled valiantly at
her food and asked Zeena one or two questions about her visit to Bettsbridge.
Zeena answered in her every-day tone and, warming to the theme, regaled
them with several vivid descriptions of intestinal disturbances among her
friends and relatives. She looked straight at Mattie as she spoke, a faint smile
deepening the vertical lines between her nose and chin.
When supper was over she rose from her seat and pressed her hand to the
flat surface over the region of her heart. “That pie of yours always sets a mite
heavy, Matt,” she said, not ill-naturedly. She seldom abbreviated the girl’s
name, and when she did so it was always a sign of affability.
“I’ve a good mind to go and hunt up those stomach powders I got last year
over in Springfield,” she continued. “I ain’t tried them for quite a while, and
maybe they’ll help the heartburn.”
Mattie lifted her eyes. “Can’t I get them for you, Zeena?” she ventured.
“No. They’re in a place you don’t know about,” Zeena answered darkly,
with one of her secret looks.
She went out of the kitchen and Mattie, rising, began to clear the dishes
from the table. As she passed Ethan’s chair their eyes met and clung together
desolately. The warm still kitchen looked as peaceful as the night before. The
cat had sprung to Zeena’s rocking-chair, and the heat of the fire was
beginning to draw out the faint sharp scent of the geraniums. Ethan dragged
himself wearily to his feet.
“I’ll go out and take a look around,” he said, going toward the passage to
get his lantern.
As he reached the door he met Zeena coming back into the room, her lips
twitching with anger, a flush of excitement on her sallow face. The shawl had
slipped from her shoulders and was dragging at her down-trodden heels, and
in her hands she carried the fragments of the red glass pickle-dish.
“I’d like to know who done this,” she said, looking sternly from Ethan to
Mattie.
There was no answer, and she continued in a trembling voice: “I went to get
those powders I’d put away in father’s old spectacle-case, top of the china-
closet, where I keep the things I set store by, so’s folks sha‘n’t meddle with
them—” Her voice broke, and two small tears hung on her lashless lids and
ran slowly down her cheeks. “It takes the stepladder to get at the top shelf,
and I put Aunt Philura Maple’s pickle-dish up there o’ purpose when we was

married, and it’s never been down since, ’cept for the spring cleaning, and
then I always lifted it with my own hands, so’s ’t shouldn’t get broke.” She
laid the fragments reverently on the table. “I want to know who done this,”
she quavered.
At the challenge Ethan turned back into the room and faced her. “I can tell
you, then. The cat done it.”
“The cat?”
“That’s what I said.”
She looked at him hard, and then turned her eyes to Mattie, who was
carrying the dish-pan to the table.
“I’d like to know how the cat got into my china-closet,” she said.
“Chasin’ mice, I guess,” Ethan rejoined. There was a mouse round the
kitchen all last evening.”
Zeena continued to look from one to the other; then she emitted her small
strange laugh. “I knew the cat was a smart cat,” she said in a high voice, “but
I didn’t know he was smart enough to pick up the pieces of my pickle-dish
and lay ‘em edge to edge on the very shelf he knocked ’em off of.”
Mattie suddenly drew her arms out of the steaming water. “It wasn’t Ethan’s
fault, Zeena! The cat did break the dish; but I got it down from the china-
closet, and I’m the one to blame for its getting broken.”
Zeena stood beside the ruin of her treasure, stiffening into a stony image of
resentment, “You got down my pickle-dish-what for?”
A bright flush flew to Mattie’s cheeks. “I wanted to make the supper-table
pretty,” she said.
“You wanted to make the supper-table pretty; and you waited till my back
was turned, and took the thing I set most store by of anything I’ve got, and
wouldn’t never use it, not even when the minister come to dinner, or Aunt
Martha Pierce come over from Bettsbridge—” Zeena paused with a gasp, as if
terrified by her own evocation of the sacrilege. “You’re a bad girl, Mattie
Silver, and I always known it. It’s the way your father begun, and I was
warned of it when I took you, and I tried to keep my things where you
couldn’t get at ‘em—and now you’ve took from me the one I cared for most
of all—” She broke off in a short spasm of sobs that passed and left her more
than ever like a shape of stone.
“If I’d ‘a’ listened to folks, you’d ’a’ gone before now, and this wouldn’t ‘a’
happened,” she said; and gathering up the bits of broken glass she went out of

the room as if she carried a dead body ...

CHAPTER EIGHT
WHEN ETHAN WAS CALLED back to the farm by his father’s illness his
mother gave him, for his own use, a small room behind the untenanted “best
parlour.” Here he had nailed up shelves for his books, built himself a box-sofa
out of boards and a mattress, laid out his papers on a kitchen-table, hung on
the rough plaster wall an engraving of Abraham Lincoln and a calendar with
“Thoughts from the Poets,” and tried, with these meagre properties, to
produce some likeness to the study of a “minister” who had been kind to him
and lent him books when he was at Worcester. He still took refuge there in
summer, but when Mattie came to live at the farm he had had to give her his
stove, and consequently the room was uninhabitable for several months of the
year.
To this retreat he descended as soon as the house was quiet, and Zeena’s
steady breathing from the bed had assured him that there was to be no sequel
to the scene in the kitchen. After Zeena’s departure he and Mattie had stood
speechless, neither seeking to approach the other. Then the girl had returned
to her task of clearing up the kitchen for the night and he had taken his lantern
and gone on his usual round outside the house. The kitchen was empty when
he came back to it; but his tobacco-pouch and pipe had been laid on the table,
and under them was a scrap of paper torn from the back of a seedsman’s
catalogue, on which three words were written: “Don’t trouble, Ethan.”
Going into his cold dark “study” he placed the lantern on the table and,
stooping to its light, read the message again and again. It was the first time
that Mattie had ever written to him, and the possession of the paper gave him
a strange new sense of her nearness; yet it deepened his anguish by reminding
him that henceforth they would have no other way of communicating with
each other. For the life of her smile, the warmth of her voice, only cold paper
and dead words!
Confused motions of rebellion stormed in him. He was too young, too
strong, too full of the sap of living, to submit so easily to the destruction of
his hopes. Must he wear out all his years at the side of a bitter querulous
woman? Other possibilities had been in him, possibilities sacrificed, one by
one, to Zeena’s narrow mindedness and ignorance. And what good had come
of it? She was a hundred times bitterer and more discontented than when he

had married her: the one pleasure left her was to inflict pain on him. All the
healthy instincts of self-defence rose up in him against such waste ...
He bundled himself into his old coon-skin coat and lay down on the box-
sofa to think. Under his cheek he felt a hard object with strange
protuberances. It was a cushion which Zeena had made for him when they
were engaged—the only piece of needlework he had ever seen her do. He
flung it across the floor and propped his head against the wall...
He knew a case of a man over the mountain—a young fellow of about his
own age—who had escaped from just such a life of misery by going West
with the girl he cared for. His wife had divorced him, and he had married the
girl and prospered. Ethan had seen the couple the summer before at Shadd’s
Falls, where they had come to visit relatives. They had a little girl with fair
curls, who wore a gold locket and was dressed like a princess. The deserted
wife had not done badly either. Her husband had given her the farm and she
had managed to sell it, and with that and the alimony she had started a lunch-
room at Bettsbridge and bloomed into activity and importance. Ethan was
fired by the thought. Why should he not leave with Mattie the next day,
instead of letting her go alone? He would hide his valise under the seat of the
sleigh, and Zeena would suspect nothing till she went upstairs for her
afternoon nap and found a letter on the bed ...
His impulses were still near the surface, and he sprang up, re-lit the lantern,
and sat down at the table. He rummaged in the drawer for a sheet of paper,
found one, and began to write.
“Zeena, I’ve done all I could for you, and I don’t see as it’s been any use. I
don’t blame you, nor I don’t blame myself. Maybe both of us will do better
separate. I’m going to try my luck West, and you can sell the farm and mill,
and keep the money—”
His pen paused on the word, which brought home to him the relentless
conditions of his lot. If he gave the farm and mill to Zeena what would be left
him to start his own life with? Once in the West he was sure of picking up
work—he would not have feared to try his chance alone. But with Mattie
depending on him the case was different. And what of Zeena’s fate? Farm and
mill were mortgaged to the limit of their value, and even if she found a
purchaser—in itself an unlikely chance—it was doubtful if she could clear a
thousand dollars on the sale. Meanwhile, how could she keep the farm going?
It was only by incessant labour and personal supervision that Ethan drew a
meagre living from his land, and his wife, even if she were in better health
than she imagined, could never carry such a burden alone.

Well, she could go back to her people, then, and see what they would do for
her. It was the fate she was forcing on Mattie—why not let her try it herself?
By the time she had discovered his whereabouts, and brought suit for divorce,
he would probably—wherever he was—be earning enough to pay her a
sufficient alimony. And the alternative was to let Mattie go forth alone, with
far less hope of ultimate provision ...
He had scattered the contents of the table-drawer in his search for a sheet of
paper, and as he took up his pen his eye fell on an old copy of the Bettsbridge
Eagle. The advertising sheet was folded uppermost, and he read the seductive
words: “Trips to the West: Reduced Rates.”
He drew the lantern nearer and eagerly scanned the fares; then the paper fell
from his hand and he pushed aside his unfinished letter. A moment ago he had
wondered what he and Mattie were to live on when they reached the West;
now he saw that he had not even the money to take her there. Borrowing was
out of the question: six months before he had given his only security to raise
funds for necessary repairs to the mill, and he knew that without security no
one at Starkfield would lend him ten dollars. The inexorable facts closed in on
him like prison-warders handcuffing a convict. There was no way out—none.
He was a prisoner for life, and now his one ray of light was to be
extinguished.
He crept back heavily to the sofa, stretching himself out with limbs so
leaden that he felt as if they would never move again. Tears rose in his throat
and slowly burned their way to his lids.
As he lay there, the window-pane that faced him, growing gradually lighter,
inlaid upon the darkness a square of moon-suffused sky. A crooked tree-
branch crossed it, a branch of the apple-tree under which, on summer
evenings, he had sometimes found Mattie sitting when he came up from the
mill. Slowly the rim of the rainy vapours caught fire and burnt away, and a
pure moon swung into the blue. Ethan, rising on his elbow, watched the
landscape whiten and shape itself under the sculpture of the moon. This was
the night on which he was to have taken Mattie coasting, and there hung the
lamp to light them! He looked out at the slopes bathed in lustre, the silver-
edged darkness of the woods, the spectral purple of the hills against the sky,
and it seemed as though all the beauty of the night had been poured out to
mock his wretchedness ...
He fell asleep, and when he woke the chill of the winter dawn was in the
room. He felt cold and stiff and hungry, and ashamed of being hungry. He
rubbed his eyes and went to the window. A red sun stood over the grey rim of

the fields, behind trees that looked black and brittle. He said to himself: “This
is Matt’s last day,” and tried to think what the place would be without her.
As he stood there he heard a step behind him and she entered.
“Oh, Ethan—were you here all night?”
She looked so small and pinched, in her poor dress, with the red scarf
wound about her, and the cold light turning her paleness sallow, that Ethan
stood before her without speaking.
“You must be frozen,” she went on, fixing lustreless eyes on him.
He drew a step nearer. “How did you know I was here?”
“Because I heard you go down stairs again after I went to bed, and I listened
all night, and you didn’t come up.”
All his tenderness rushed to his lips. He looked at her and said: “I’ll come
right along and make up the kitchen fire.”
They went back to the kitchen, and he fetched the coal and kin dlings and
cleared out the stove for her, while she brought in the milk and the cold
remains of the meat-pie. When warmth began to radiate from the stove, and
the first ray of sunlight lay on the kitchen floor, Ethan’s dark thoughts melted
in the mellower air. The sight of Mattie going about her work as he had seen
her on so many mornings made it seem impossible that she should ever cease
to be a part of the scene. He said to himself that he had doubtless exaggerated
the significance of Zeena’s threats, and that she too, with the return of
daylight, would come to a saner mood.
He went up to Mattie as she bent above the stove, and laid his hand on her
arm. “I don’t want you should trouble either,” he said, looking down into her
eyes with a smile.
She flushed up warmly and whispered back: “No, Ethan, I ain’t going to
trouble.”
“I guess things’ll straighten out,” he added.
There was no answer but a quick throb of her lids, and he went on: “She
ain’t said anything this morning?”
“No. I haven’t seen her yet.”
“Don’t you take any notice when you do.”
With this injunction he left her and went out to the cow-barn. He saw
Jotham Powell walking up the hill through the morning mist, and the familiar
sight added to his growing conviction of security.

As the two men were clearing out the stalls Jotham rested on his pitch-fork
to say: “Dan‘l Byrne’s goin’ over to the Flats to-day noon, an’ he c’d take
Mattie’s trunk along, and make it easier ridin’ when I take her over in the
sleigh.”
Ethan looked at him blankly, and he continued: “Mis’ Frome said the new
girl’d be at the Flats at five, and I was to take Mattie then, so’s ’t she could
ketch the six o‘clock train for Stamford.”
Ethan felt the blood drumming in his temples. He had to wait a moment
before he could find voice to say: “Oh, it ain’t so sure about Mattie’s going
—”
“That so?” said Jotham indifferently; and they went on with their work.
When they returned to the kitchen the two women were already at breakfast.
Zeena had an air of unusual alertness and activity. She drank two cups of
coffee and fed the cat with the scraps left in the pie-dish; then she rose from
her seat and, walking over to the window, snipped two or three yellow leaves
from the geraniums. “Aunt Martha’s ain’t got a faded leaf on ‘em; but they
pine away when they ain’t cared for,” she said reflectively. Then she turned to
Jotham and asked: “What time’d you say Dan’l Byrne’d be along?”
The hired man threw a hesitating glance at Ethan. “Round about noon,” he
said.
Zeena turned to Mattie. “That trunk of yours is too heavy for the sleigh, and
Dan‘l Byrne’ll be round to take it over to the Flats,” she said.
“I’m much obliged to you, Zeena,” said Mattie.
“I’d like to go over things with you first,” Zeena continued in an
unperturbed voice. “I know there’s a huckabuck towel missing; and I can’t
take out what you done with that match-safe ’t used to stand behind the
stuffed owl in the parlour.”
She went out, followed by Mattie, and when the men were alone Jotham
said to his employer: “I guess I better let Dan‘l come round, then.”
Ethan finished his usual morning tasks about the house and barn; then he
said to Jotham: “I’m going down to Starkfield. Tell them not to wait dinner.”
The passion of rebellion had broken out in him again. That which had
seemed incredible in the sober light of day had really come to pass, and he
was to assist as a helpless spectator at Mattie’s banishment. His manhood was
humbled by the part he was compelled to play and by the thought of what

Mattie must think of him. Confused impulses struggled in him as he strode
along to the village. He had made up his mind to do something, but he did not
know what it would be.
The early mist had vanished and the fields lay like a silver shield under the
sun. It was one of the days when the glitter of winter shines through a pale
haze of spring. Every yard of the road was alive with Mattie’s presence, and
there was hardly a branch against the sky or a tangle of brambles on the bank
in which some bright shred of memory was not caught. Once, in the stillness,
the call of a bird in a mountain ash was so like her laughter that his heart
tightened and then grew large; and all these things made him see that
something must be done at once.
Suddenly it occurred to him that Andrew Hale, who was a kind-hearted
man, might be induced to reconsider his refusal and advance a small sum on
the lumber if he were told that Zeena’s ill-health made it necessary to hire a
servant. Hale, after all, knew enough of Ethan’s situation to make it possible
for the latter to renew his appeal without too much loss of pride; and,
moreover, how much did pride count in the ebullition of passions in his
breast?
The more he considered his plan the more hopeful it seemed. If he could get
Mrs. Hale’s ear he felt certain of success, and with fifty dollars in his pocket
nothing could keep him from Mattie ...
His first object was to reach Starkfield before Hale had started for his work;
he knew the carpenter had a job down the Corbury road and was likely to
leave his house early. Ethan’s long strides grew more rapid with the
accelerated beat of his thoughts, and as he reached the foot of School House
Hill he caught sight of Hale’s sleigh in the distance. He hurried forward to
meet it, but as it drew nearer he saw that it was driven by the carpenter’s
youngest boy and that the figure at his side, looking like a large upright
cocoon in spectacles, was that of Mrs. Hale. Ethan signed to them to stop, and
Mrs. Hale leaned forward, her pink wrinkles twinkling with benevolence.
“Mr. Hale? Why, yes, you’ll find him down home now. He ain’t going to his
work this forenoon. He woke up with a touch o’ lumbago, and I just made him
put on one of old Dr. Kidder’s plasters and set right up into the fire.”
Beaming maternally on Ethan, she bent over to add: “I on‘y just heard from
Mr. Hale ’bout Zeena’s going over to Bettsbridge to see that new doctor. I’m
real sorry she’s feeling so bad again! I hope he thinks he can do something for
her. I don’t know anybody round here’s had more sickness than Zeena. I
always tell Mr. Hale I don’t know what she’d ‘a’ done if she hadn’t ’a’ had

you to look after her; and I used to say the same thing ‘bout your mother.
You’ve had an awful mean time, Ethan Frome.”
She gave him a last nod of sympathy while her son chirped to the horse; and
Ethan, as she drove off, stood in the middle of the road and stared after the
retreating sleigh.
It was a long time since any one had spoken to him as kindly as Mrs. Hale.
Most people were either indifferent to his troubles, or disposed to think it
natural that a young fellow of his age should have carried without repining the
burden of three crippled lives. But Mrs. Hale had said, “You’ve had an awful
mean time, Ethan Frome,” and he felt less alone with his misery. If the Hales
were sorry for him they would surely respond to his appeal...
He started down the road toward their house, but at the end of a few yards
he pulled up sharply, the blood in his face. For the first time, in the light of the
words he had just heard, he saw what he was about to do. He was planning to
take advantage of the Hales’ sympathy to obtain money from them on false
pretences. That was a plain statement of the cloudy purpose which had driven
him in headlong to Starkfield.
With the sudden perception of the point to which his madness had carried
him, the madness fell and he saw his life before him as it was. He was a poor
man, the husband of a sickly woman, whom his desertion would leave alone
and destitute; and even if he had had the heart to desert her he could have
done so only by deceiving two kindly people who had pitied him.
He turned and walked slowly back to the farm.

CHAPTER NINE
AT THE KITCHEN DOOR Daniel Byrne sat in his sleigh behind a big-boned
grey who pawed the snow and swung his long head restlessly from side to
side.
Ethan went into the kitchen and found his wife by the stove. Her head was
wrapped in her shawl, and she was reading a book called “Kidney Troubles
and Their Cure” on which he had had to pay extra postage only a few days
before.
Zeena did not move or look up when he entered, and after a moment he
asked: “Where’s Mattie?”
Without lifting her eyes from the page she replied: “I presume she’s getting
down her trunk.”
The blood rushed to his face. “Getting down her trunk—alone?”
“Jotham Powell’s down in the wood-lot, and Dan‘1 Byrne says he darsn’t
leave that horse,” she returned.
Her husband, without stopping to hear the end of the phrase, had left the
kitchen and sprung up the stairs. The door of Mattie’s room was shut, and he
wavered a moment on the landing. “Matt,” he said in a low voice; but there
was no answer, and he put his hand on the door-knob.
He had never been in her room except once, in the early summer, when he
had gone there to plaster up a leak in the eaves, but he remembered exactly
how everything had looked: the red-and-white quilt on her narrow bed, the
pretty pin-cushion on the chest of drawers, and over it the enlarged
photograph of her mother, in an oxydized frame, with a bunch of dyed grasses
at the back. Now these and all other tokens of her presence had vanished and
the room looked as bare and comfortless as when Zeena had shown her into it
on the day of her arrival. In the middle of the floor stood her trunk, and on the
trunk she sat in her Sunday dress, her back turned to the door and her face in
her hands. She had not heard Ethan’s call because she was sobbing and she
did not hear his step till he stood close behind her and laid his hands on her
shoulders.
“Matt—oh, don‘t—oh, Matt!”

She started up, lifting her wet face to his. “Ethan—I thought I wasn’t ever
going to see you again!”
He took her in his arms, pressing her close, and with a trembling hand
smoothed away the hair from her forehead.
“Not see me again? What do you mean?”
She sobbed out: “Jotham said you told him we wasn’t to wait dinner for
you, and I thought—”
“You thought I meant to cut it?” he finished for her grimly.
She clung to him without answering, and he laid his lips on her hair, which
was soft yet springy, like certain mosses on warm slopes, and had the faint
woody fragrance of fresh sawdust in the sun.
Through the door they heard Zeena’s voice calling out from below: “Dan‘l
Byrne says you better hurry up if you want him to take that trunk.”
They drew apart with stricken faces. Words of resistance rushed to Ethan’s
lips and died there. Mattie found her handkerchief and dried her eyes; then,
bending down, she took hold of a handle of the trunk.
Ethan put her aside. “You let go, Matt,” he ordered her.
She answered: “It takes two to coax it round the corner”; and submitting to
this argument he grasped the other handle, and together they manoeuvred the
heavy trunk out to the landing.
“Now let go,” he repeated; then he shouldered the trunk and carried it down
the stairs and across the passage to the kitchen. Zeena, who had gone back to
her seat by the stove, did not lift her head from her book as he passed. Mattie
followed him out of the door and helped him to lift the trunk into the back of
the sleigh. When it was in place they stood side by side on the door-step,
watching Daniel Byrne plunge off behind his fidgety horse.
It seemed to Ethan that his heart was bound with cords which an unseen
hand was tightening with every tick of the clock. Twice he opened his lips to
speak to Mattie and found no breath. At length, as she turned to re-enter the
house, he laid a detaining hand on her.
“I’m going to drive you over, Matt,” he whispered.
She murmured back: “I think Zeena wants I should go with Jotham.”
“I’m going to drive you over,” he repeated; and she went into the kitchen
without answering.
At dinner Ethan could not eat. If he lifted his eyes they rested on Zeena’s

pinched face, and the corners of her straight lips seemed to quiver away into a
smile. She ate well, declaring that the mild weather made her feel better, and
pressed a second helping of beans on Jotham Powell, whose wants she
generally ignored.
Mattie, when the meal was over, went about her usual task of clearing the
table and washing up the dishes. Zeena, after feeding the cat, had returned to
her rocking-chair by the stove, and Jotham Powell, who always lingered last,
reluctantly pushed back his chair and moved toward the door.
On the threshold he turned back to say to Ethan: “What time’ll I come
round for Mattie?”
Ethan was standing near the window, mechanically filling his pipe while he
watched Mattie move to and fro. He answered: “You needn’t come round; I’m
going to drive her over myself.”
He saw the rise of the colour in Mattie’s averted cheek, and the quick lifting
of Zeena’s head.
“I want you should stay here this afternoon, Ethan,” his wife said. “Jotham
can drive Mattie over.”
Mattie flung an imploring glance at him, but he repeated curtly: “I’m going
to drive her over myself.”
Zeena continued in the same even tone: “I wanted you should stay and fix
up that stove in Mattie’s room afore the girl gets here. It ain’t been drawing
right for nigh on a month now.”
Ethan’s voice rose indignantly. “If it was good enough for Mattie I guess it’s
good enough for a hired girl.”
“That girl that’s coming told me she was used to a house where they had a
furnace,” Zeena persisted with the same monotonous mildness.
“She’d better ha’ stayed there then,” he flung back at her; and turning to
Mattie he added in a hard voice: “You be ready by three, Matt; I’ve got
business at Corbury.”
Jotham Powell had started for the barn, and Ethan strode down after him
aflame with anger. The pulses in his temples throbbed and a fog was in his
eyes. He went about his task without knowing what force directed him, or
whose hands and feet were fulfilling its orders. It was not till he led out the
sorrel and backed him between the shafts of the sleigh that he once more
became conscious of what he was doing. As he passed the bridle over the
horse’s head, and wound the traces around the shafts, he remembered the day
when he had made the same preparations in order to drive over and meet his

wife’s cousin at the Flats. It was little more than a year ago, on just such a soft
afternoon, with a “feel” of spring in the air. The sorrel, turning the same big
ringed eye on him, nuzzled the palm of his hand in the same way; and one by
one all the days between rose up and stood before him ...
He flung the bearskin into the sleigh, climbed to the seat, and drove up to
the house. When he entered the kitchen it was empty, but Mattie’s bag and
shawl lay ready by the door. He went to the foot of the stairs and listened. No
sound reached him from above, but presently he thought he heard some one
moving about in his deserted study, and pushing open the door he saw Mattie,
in her hat and jacket, standing with her back to him near the table.
She started at his approach and turning quickly, said: “Is it time?”
“What are you doing here, Matt?” he asked her.
She looked at him timidly. “I was just taking a look round—that’s all,” she
answered, with a wavering smile.
They went back into the kitchen without speaking, and Ethan picked up her
bag and shawl.
“Where’s Zeena?” he asked.
“She went upstairs right after dinner. She said she had those shooting pains
again, and didn’t want to be disturbed.”
“Didn’t she say good-bye to you?”
“No. That was all she said.”
Ethan, looking slowly about the kitchen, said to himself with a shudder that
in a few hours he would be returning to it alone. Then the sense of unreality
overcame him once more, and he could not bring himself to believe that
Mattie stood there for the last time before him.
“Come on,” he said almost gaily, opening the door and putting her bag into
the sleigh. He sprang to his seat and bent over to tuck the rug about her as she
slipped into the place at his side. “Now then, go ‘long,” he said, with a shake
of the reins that sent the sorrel placidly jogging down the hill.
“We got lots of time for a good ride, Matt!” he cried, seeking her hand
beneath the fur and pressing it in his. His face tingled and he felt dizzy, as if
he had stopped in at the Starkfield saloon on a zero day for a drink.
At the gate, instead of making for Starkfield, he turned the sorrel to the
right, up the Bettsbridge road. Mattie sat silent, giving no sign of surprise; but
after a moment she said: “Are you going round by Shadow Pond?”
He laughed and answered: “I knew you’d know!”

She drew closer under the bearskin, so that, looking sideways around his
coat-sleeve, he could just catch the tip of her nose and a blown brown wave of
hair. They drove slowly up the road between fields glistening under the pale
sun, and then bent to the right down a lane edged with spruce and larch.
Ahead of them, a long way off, a range of hills stained by mottlings of black
forest flowed away in round white curves against the sky. The lane passed
into a pine-wood with boles reddening in the afternoon sun and delicate blue
shadows on the snow. As they entered it the breeze fell and a warm stillness
seemed to drop from the branches with the dropping needles. Here the snow
was so pure that the tiny tracks of wood-animals had left on it intricate lace-
like patterns, and the bluish cones caught in its surface stood out like
ornaments of bronze.
Ethan drove on in silence till they reached a part of the wood where the
pines were more widely spaced, then he drew up and helped Mattie to get out
of the sleigh. They passed between the aromatic trunks, the snow breaking
crisply under their feet, till they came to a small sheet of water with steep
wooded sides. Across its frozen surface, from the farther bank, a single hill
rising against the western sun threw the long conical shadow which gave the
lake its name. It was a shy secret spot, full of the same dumb melancholy that
Ethan felt in his heart.
He looked up and down the little pebbly beach till his eye lit on a fallen
tree-trunk half submerged in snow.
“There’s where we sat at the picnic,” he reminded her.
The entertainment of which he spoke was one of the few that they had taken
part in together: a “church picnic” which, on a long afternoon of the
preceding summer, had filled the retired place with merry-making. Mattie had
begged him to go with her but he had refused. Then, toward sunset, coming
down from the mountain where he had been felling timber, he had been
caught by some strayed revellers and drawn into the group by the lake, where
Mattie, encircled by facetious youths, and bright as a blackberry under her
spreading hat, was brewing coffee over a gipsy fire. He remembered the
shyness he had felt at approaching her in his uncouth clothes, and then the
lighting up of her face, and the way she had broken through the group to
come to him with a cup in her hand. They had sat for a few minutes on the
fallen log by the pond, and she had missed her gold locket, and set the young
men searching for it; and it was Ethan who had spied it in the moss.... That
was all; but all their intercourse had been made up of just such inarticulate
flashes, when they seemed to come suddenly upon happiness as if they had
surprised a butterfly in the winter woods ...

“It was right there I found your locket,” he said, pushing his foot into a
dense tuft of blueberry bushes.
“I never saw anybody with such sharp eyes!” she answered.
She sat down on the tree-trunk in the sun and he sat down beside her.
“You were as pretty as a picture in that pink hat,” he said.
She laughed with pleasure. “Oh, I guess it was the hat!” she rejoined.
They had never before avowed their inclination so openly, and Ethan, for a
moment, had the illusion that he was a free man, wooing the girl he meant to
marry. He looked at her hair and longed to touch it again, and to tell her that it
smelt of the woods; but he had never learned to say such things.
Suddenly she rose to her feet and said: “We mustn’t stay here any longer.”
He continued to gaze at her vaguely, only half-roused from his dream.
“There’s plenty of time,” he answered.
They stood looking at each other as if the eyes of each were straining to
absorb and hold fast the other’s image. There were things he had to say to her
before they parted, but he could not say them in that place of summer
memories, and he turned and followed her in silence to the sleigh. As they
drove away the sun sank behind the hill and the pine-boles turned from red to
grey.
By a devious track between the fields they wound back to the Starkfield
road. Under the open sky the light was still clear, with a reflection of cold red
on the eastern hills. The clumps of trees in the snow seemed to draw together
in ruffled lumps, like birds with their heads under their wings; and the sky, as
it paled, rose higher, leaving the earth more alone.
As they turned into the Starkfield road Ethan said: “Matt, what do you mean
to do?”
She did not answer at once, but at length she said: “I’ll try to get a place in a
store.”
“You know you can’t do it. The bad air and the standing all day nearly
killed you before.”
“I’m a lot stronger than I was before I came to Starkfield.”
“And now you’re going to throw away all the good it’s done you!”
There seemed to be no answer to this, and again they drove on for a while
without speaking. With every yard of the way some spot where they had
stood, and laughed together or been silent, clutched at Ethan and dragged him

back.
“Isn’t there any of your father’s folks could help you?”
“There isn’t any of‘em I’d ask.”
He lowered his voice to say: “You know there’s nothing I wouldn’t do for
you if I could.”
“I know there isn’t.”
“But I can‘t—”
She was silent, but he felt a slight tremor in the shoulder against his.
“Oh, Matt,” he broke out, “if I could ha’ gone with you now I’d ha’ done it
—”
She turned to him, pulling a scrap of paper from her breast. “Ethan—I
found this,” she stammered. Even in the failing light he saw it was the letter to
his wife that he had begun the night before and forgotten to destroy. Through
his astonishment there ran a fierce thrill of joy. “Matt—” he cried; “if I could
ha’ done it, would you?”
“Oh, Ethan, Ethan—what’s the use?” With a sudden movement she tore the
letter in shreds and sent them fluttering off into the snow.
“Tell me, Matt! Tell me!” he adjured her.
She was silent for a moment; then she said, in such a low tone that he had to
stoop his head to hear her: “I used to think of it sometimes, summer nights,
when the moon was so bright I couldn’t sleep.”
His heart reeled with the sweetness of it. “As long ago as that?”
She answered, as if the date had long been fixed for her: “The first time was
at Shadow Pond.”
“Was that why you gave me my coffee before the others?”
“I don’t know. Did I? I was dreadfully put out when you wouldn’t go to the
picnic with me; and then, when I saw you coming down the road, I thought
maybe you’d gone home that way o’ purpose; and that made me glad.”
They were silent again. They had reached the point where the road dipped
to the hollow by Ethan’s mill and as they descended the darkness descended
with them, dropping down like a black veil from the heavy hemlock boughs.
“I’m tied hand and foot, Matt. There isn’t a thing I can do,” he began again.
“You must write to me sometimes, Ethan.”
“Oh, what good’ll writing do? I want to put my hand out and touch you. I

want to do for you and care for you. I want to be there when you’re sick and
when you’re lonesome.”
“You mustn’t think but what I’ll do all right.”
“You won’t need me, you mean? I suppose you’ll marry!”
“Oh, Ethan!” she cried.
“I don’t know how it is you make me feel, Matt. I’d a‘most rather have you
dead than that!”
“Oh, I wish I was, I wish I was!” she sobbed.
The sound of her weeping shook him out of his dark anger, and he felt
ashamed.
“Don’t let’s talk that way,” he whispered.
“Why shouldn’t we, when it’s true? I’ve been wishing it every minute of the
day.”
“Matt! You be quiet! Don’t you say it.”
“There’s never anybody been good to me but you.”
“Don’t say that either, when I can’t lift a hand for you!”
“Yes; but it’s true just the same.”
They had reached the top of School House Hill and Starkfield lay below
them in the twilight. A cutter, mounting the road from the village, passed
them by in a joyous flutter of bells, and they straightened themselves and
looked ahead with rigid faces. Along the main street lights had begun to shine
from the house-fronts and stray figures were turning in here and there at the
gates. Ethan, with a touch of his whip, roused the sorrel to a languid trot.
As they drew near the end of the village the cries of children reached them,
and they saw a knot of boys, with sleds behind them, scattering across the
open space before the church.
“I guess this’ll be their last coast for a day or two,” Ethan said, looking up at
the mild sky.
Mattie was silent, and he added: “We were to have gone down last night.”
Still she did not speak and, prompted by an obscure desire to help himself
and her through their miserable last hour, he went on discursively: “Ain’t it
funny we haven’t been down together but just that once last winter?”
She answered: “It wasn’t often I got down to the village.”
“That’s so,” he said.

They had reached the crest of the Corbury road, and between the indistinct
white glimmer of the church and the black curtain of the Varnum spruces the
slope stretched away below them without a sled on its length. Some erratic
impulse prompted Ethan to say: “How’d you like me to take you down now?”
She forced a laugh. “Why, there isn’t time!”
“There’s all the time we want. Come along!” His one desire now was to
postpone the moment of turning the sorrel toward the Flats.
“But the girl,” she faltered. “The girl’ll be waiting at the station.”
“Well, let her wait. You’d have to if she didn’t. Come!”
The note of authority in his voice seemed to subdue her, and when he had
jumped from the sleigh she let him help her out, saying only, with a vague
feint of reluctance: “But there isn’t a sled round anywheres.”
“Yes, there is! Right over there under the spruces.”
He threw the bearskin over the sorrel, who stood passively by the roadside,
hanging a meditative head. Then he caught Mattie’s hand and drew her after
him toward the sled.
She seated herself obediently and he took his place behind her, so close that
her hair brushed his face. “All right, Matt?” he called out, as if the width of
the road had been between them.
She turned her head to say: “It’s dreadfully dark. Are you sure you can
see?”
He laughed contemptuously: “I could go down this coast with my eyes
tied!” and she laughed with him, as if she liked his audacity. Nevertheless he
sat still a moment, straining his eyes down the long hill, for it was the most
confusing hour of the evening, the hour when the last clearness from the
upper sky is merged with the rising night in a blur that disguises landmarks
and falsifies distances.
“Now!” he cried.
The sled started with a bound, and they flew on through the dusk, gathering
smoothness and speed as they went, with the hollow night opening out below
them and the air singing by like an organ. Mattie sat perfectly still, but as they
reached the bend at the foot of the hill, where the big elm thrust out a deadly
elbow, he fancied that she shrank a little closer.
“Don’t be scared, Matt!” he cried exultantly, as they spun safely past it and
flew down the second slope; and when they reached the level ground beyond,
and the speed of the sled began to slacken, he heard her give a little laugh of

glee.
They sprang off and started to walk back up the hill. Ethan dragged the sled
with one hand and passed the other through Mattie’s arm.
“Were you scared I’d run you into the elm?” he asked with a boyish laugh.
“I told you I was never scared with you,” she answered.
The strange exaltation of his mood had brought on one of his rare fits of
boastfulness. “It is a tricky place, though. The least swerve, and we’d never
ha’ come up again. But I can measure distances to a hair‘s-breadth—always
could.”
She murmured: “I always say you’ve got the surest eye ...”
Deep silence had fallen with the starless dusk, and they leaned on each other
without speaking; but at every step of their climb Ethan said to himself: “It’s
the last time we’ll ever walk together.”
They mounted slowly to the top of the hill. When they were abreast of the
church he stooped his head to her to ask: “Are you tired?” and she answered,
breathing quickly: “It was splendid!”
With a pressure of his arm he guided her toward the Norway spruces. “I
guess this sled must be Ned Hale’s. Anyhow I’ll leave it where I found it.” He
drew the sled up to the Varnum gate and rested it against the fence. As he
raised himself he suddenly felt Mattie close to him among the shadows.
“Is this where Ned and Ruth kissed each other?” she whispered breathlessly,
and flung her arms about him. Her lips, groping for his, swept over his face,
and he held her fast in a rapture of surprise.
“Good-bye—good-bye,” she stammered, and kissed him again.
“Oh, Matt, I can’t let you go!” broke from him in the same old cry.
She freed herself from his hold and he heard her sobbing. “Oh, I can’t go
either!” she wailed.
“Matt! What’ll we do? What’ll we do?”
They clung to each other’s hands like children, and her body shook with
desperate sobs.
Through the stillness they heard the church clock striking five.
“Oh, Ethan, it’s time!” she cried.
He drew her back to him. “Time for what? You don’t suppose I’m going to
leave you now?”

“If I missed my train where’d I go?”
“Where are you going if you catch it?”
She stood silent, her hands lying cold and relaxed in his.
“What’s the good of either of us going anywheres without the other one
now?” he said.
She remained motionless, as if she had not heard him. Then she snatched
her hands from his, threw her arms about his neck, and pressed a sudden
drenched cheek against his face. “Ethan! Ethan! I want you to take me down
again!”
“Down where?”
“The coast. Right off,” she panted. “So ’t we’ll never come up any more.”
“Matt! What on earth do you mean?”
She put her lips close against his ear to say: “Right into the big elm. You
said you could. So ’t we’d never have to leave each other any more.”
“Why, what are you talking of? You’re crazy!”
“I’m not crazy; but I will be if I leave you.”
“Oh, Matt, Matt—” he groaned.
She tightened her fierce hold about his neck. Her face lay close to his face.
“Ethan, where’ll I go if I leave you? I don’t know how to get along alone.
You said so yourself just now. Nobody but you was ever good to me. And
there’ll be that strange girl in the house ... and she’ll sleep in my bed, where I
used to lay nights and listen to hear you come up the stairs ...”
The words were like fragments torn from his heart. With them came the
hated vision of the house he was going back to—of the stairs he would have
to go up every night, of the woman who would wait for him there. And the
sweetness of Mattie’s avowal, the wild wonder of knowing at last that all that
had happened to him had happened to her too, made the other vision more
abhorrent, the other life more intolerable to return to ...
Her pleadings still came to him between short sobs, but he no longer heard
what she was saying. Her hat had slipped back and he was stroking her hair.
He wanted to get the feeling of it into his hand, so that it would sleep there
like a seed in winter. Once he found her mouth again, and they seemed to be
by the pond together in the burning August sun. But his cheek touched hers,
and it was cold and full of weeping, and he saw the road to the Flats under the
night and heard the whistle of the train up the line.

The spruces swathed them in blackness and silence. They might have been
in their coffins underground. He said to himself: “Perhaps it’ll feel like this
...” and then again: “After this I sha‘n’t feel anything ...”
Suddenly he heard the old sorrel whinny across the road, and thought: “He’s
wondering why he doesn’t get his supper ...”
“Come,” Mattie whispered, tugging at his hand.
Her sombre violence constrained him: she seemed the embodied instrument
of fate. He pulled the sled out, blinking like a night-bird as he passed from the
shade of the spruces into the transparent dusk of the open. The slope below
them was deserted. All Starkfield was at supper, and not a figure crossed the
open space before the church. The sky, swollen with the clouds that announce
a thaw, hung as low as before a summer storm. He strained his eyes through
the dimness, and they seemed less keen, less capable than usual.
He took his seat on the sled and Mattie instantly placed herself in front of
him. Her hat had fallen into the snow and his lips were in her hair. He
stretched out his legs, drove his heels into the road to keep the sled from
slipping forward, and bent her head back between his hands. Then suddenly
he sprang up again.
“Get up,” he ordered her.
It was the tone she always heeded, but she cowered down in her seat,
repeating vehemently: “No, no, no!”
“Get up!”
“Why?”
“I want to sit in front.”
“No, no! How can you steer in front?”
“I don’t have to. We’ll follow the track.”
They spoke in smothered whispers, as though the night were listening.
“Get up! Get up!” he urged her; but she kept on repeating: “Why do you
want to sit in front?
“Because I—because I want to feel you holding me,” he stammered, and
dragged her to her feet.
The answer seemed to satisfy her, or else she yielded to the power of his
voice. He bent down, feeling in the obscurity for the glassy slide worn by
preceding coasters, and placed the runners carefully between its edges. She
waited while he seated himself with crossed legs in the front of the sled; then

she crouched quickly down at his back and clasped her arms about him. Her
breath in his neck set him shuddering again, and he almost sprang from his
seat. But in a flash he remembered the alternative. She was right: this was
better than parting. He leaned back and drew her mouth to his.
Just as they started he heard the sorrel’s whinny again, and the familiar
wistful call, and all the confused images it brought with it, went with him
down the first reach of the road. Half-way down there was a sudden drop,
then a rise, and after that another long delirious descent. As they took wing
for this it seemed to him that they were flying indeed, flying far up into the
cloudy night, with Starkfield immeasurably below them, falling away like a
speck in space ... Then the big elm shot up ahead, lying in wait for them at the
j
bend of the road, and he said between his teeth: “We can fetch it; I know we
can fetch it—”
As they flew toward the tree Mattie pressed her arms tighter, and her blood
seemed to be in his veins. Once or twice the sled swerved a little under them.
He slanted his body to keep it headed for the elm, repeating to himself again
and again: “I know we can fetch it”; and little phrases she had spoken ran
through his head and danced before him on the air. The big tree loomed
bigger and closer, and as they bore down on it he thought: “It’s waiting for us:
it seems to know.” But suddenly his wife’s face, with twisted monstrous
lineaments, thrust itself between him and his goal, and he made an instinctive
movement to brush it aside. The sled swerved in response, but he righted it
again, kept it straight, and drove down on the black projecting mass. There
was a last instant when the air shot past him like millions of fiery wires; and
12
then the elm ...
The sky was still thick, but looking straight up he saw a single star, and tried
k
vaguely to reckon whether it were Sirius, or—or—The effort tired him too
much, and he closed his heavy lids and thought that he would sleep ... The
stillness was so profound that he heard a little animal twittering somewhere
near by under the snow. It made a small frightened cheep like a field mouse,
and he wondered languidly if it were hurt. Then he understood that it must be
in pain: pain so excruciating that he seemed, mysteriously, to feel it shooting
through his own body. He tried in vain to roll over in the direction of the
sound, and stretched his left arm out across the snow. And now it was as
though he felt rather than heard the twittering; it seemed to be under his palm,
which rested on something soft and springy. The thought of the animal’s
suffering was intolerable to him and he struggled to raise himself, and could
not because a rock, or some huge mass, seemed to be lying on him. But he

continued to finger about cautiously with his left hand, thinking he might get
hold of the little creature and help it; and all at once he knew that the soft
thing he had touched was Mattie’s hair and that his hand was on her face.
He dragged himself to his knees, the monstrous load on him moving with
him as he moved, and his hand went over and over her face, and he felt that
the twittering came from her lips ...
He got his face down close to hers, with his ear to her mouth, and in the
darkness he saw her eyes open and heard her say his name.
“Oh, Matt, I thought we’d fetched it,” he moaned; and far off, up the hill, he
heard the sorrel whinny, and thought: “I ought to be getting him his feed ...”

THE QUERULOUS DRONE CEASED as I entered Frome’s kitchen, and of
the two women sitting there I could not tell which had been the speaker.
One of them, on my appearing, raised her tall bony figure from her seat, not
as if to welcome me—for she threw me no more than a brief glance of
surprise—but simply to set about preparing the meal which Frome’s absence
had delayed. A slatternly calico wrapper hung from her shoulders and the
wisps of her thin grey hair were drawn away from a high forehead and
fastened at the back by a broken comb. She had pale opaque eyes which
revealed nothing and reflected nothing, and her narrow lips were of the same
sallow colour as her face.
The other woman was much smaller and slighter. She sat huddled in an arm-
chair near the stove, and when I came in she turned her head quickly toward
me, without the least corresponding movement of her body. Her hair was as
grey as her companion‘s, her face as bloodless and shrivelled, but amber-
tinted, with swarthy shadows sharpening the nose and hollowing the temples.
Under her shapeless dress her body kept its limp immobility, and her dark
eyes had the bright witch-like stare that disease of the spine sometimes gives.
Even for that part of the country the kitchen was a poor-looking place. With
the exception of the dark-eyed woman’s chair, which looked like a soiled relic
of luxury bought at a country auction, the furniture was of the roughest kind.
Three coarse china plates and a broken-nosed milk-jug had been set on a
greasy table scored with knife-cuts, and a couple of straw-bottomed chairs
and a kitchen dresser of unpainted pine stood meagrely against the plaster
walls.
“My, it’s cold here! The fire must be ‘most out,” Frome said, glancing about
him apologetically as he followed me in.
The tall woman, who had moved away from us toward the dresser, took no
notice; but the other, from her cushioned niche, answered complainingly, in a
high thin voice. “It’s on‘y just been made up this very minute. Zeena fell
asleep and slep’ ever so long, and I thought I’d be frozen stiff before I could
wake her up and get her to ’tend to it.”
I knew then that it was she who had been speaking when we entered.
Her companion, who was just coming back to the table with the remains of
a cold mince-pie in a battered pie-dish, set down her unappetising burden
without appearing to hear the accusation brought against her.
Frome stood hesitatingly before her as she advanced; then he looked at me

and said: “This is my wife, Mis’ Frome.” After another interval he added,
turning toward the figure in the arm-chair: “And this is Miss Mattie Silver ...”
Mrs. Hale, tender soul, had pictured me as lost in the Flats and buried under
a snow-drift; and so lively was her satisfaction on seeing me safely restored to
her the next morning that I felt my peril had caused me to advance several
degrees in her favour.
Great was her amazement, and that of old Mrs. Varnum, on learning that
Ethan Frome’s old horse had carried me to and from Corbury Junction
through the worst blizzard of the winter; greater still their surprise when they
heard that his master had taken me in for the night.
Beneath their wondering exclamations I felt a secret curiosity to know what
impressions I had received from my night in the Frome household, and
divined that the best way of breaking down their reserve was to let them try to
penetrate mine. I therefore confined myself to saying, in a matter-of-fact tone,
that I had been received with great kindness, and that Frome had made a bed
for me in a room on the ground-floor which seemed in happier days to have
been fitted up as a kind of writing-room or study.
“Well,” Mrs. Hale mused, “in such a storm I suppose he felt he couldn’t do
less than take you in—but I guess it went hard with Ethan. I don’t believe but
what you’re the only stranger has set foot in that house for over twenty years.
He’s that proud he don’t even like his oldest friends to go there; and I don’t
know as any do, any more, except myself and the doctor ...”
“You still go there, Mrs. Hale?” I ventured.
“I used to go a good deal after the accident, when I was first married; but
after awhile I got to think it made ‘em feel worse to see us. And then one
thing and another came, and my own troubles ... But I generally make out to
drive over there round about New Year’s, and once in the summer. Only I
always try to pick a day when Ethan’s off somewheres. It’s bad enough to see
the two women sitting there—but his face, when he looks round that bare
place, just kills me ... You see, I can look back and call it up in his mother’s
day, before their troubles.”
Old Mrs. Varnum, by this time, had gone up to bed, and her daughter and I
were sitting alone, after supper, in the austere seclusion of the horse-hair
parlour. Mrs. Hale glanced at me tentatively, as though trying to see how
much footing my conjectures gave her; and I guessed that if she had kept

silence till now it was because she had been waiting, through all the years, for
some one who should see what she alone had seen.
I waited to let her trust in me gather strength before I said: “Yes, it’s pretty
bad, seeing all three of them there together.”
She drew her mild brows into a frown of pain. “It was just awful from the
beginning. I was here in the house when they were carried up—they laid
Mattie Silver in the room you’re in. She and I were great friends, and she was
to have been my bridesmaid in the spring ... When she came to I went up to
her and stayed all night. They gave her things to quiet her, and she didn’t
know much till to‘rd morning, and then all of a sudden she woke up just like
herself, and looked straight at me out of her big eyes, and said ... Oh, I don’t
know why I’m telling you all this,” Mrs. Hale broke off, crying.
She took off her spectacles, wiped the moisture from them, and put them on
again with an unsteady hand. “It got about the next day,” she went on, “that
Zeena Frome had sent Mattie off in a hurry because she had a hired girl
coming, and the folks here could never rightly tell what she and Ethan were
doing that night coasting, when they’d ought to have been on their way to the
Flats to ketch the train ... I never knew myself what Zeena thought—I don’t to
this day. Nobody knows Zeena’s thoughts. Anyhow, when she heard o’ the
accident she came right in and stayed with Ethan over to the minister‘s, where
they’d carried him. And as soon as the doctors said that Mattie could be
moved, Zeena sent for her and took her back to the farm.”
“And there she’s been ever since?”
Mrs. Hale answered simply: “There was nowhere else for her to go;” and
my heart tightened at the thought of the hard compulsions of the poor.
“Yes, there she’s been,” Mrs. Hale continued, “and Zeena’s done for her,
and done for Ethan, as good as she could. It was a miracle, considering how
sick she was—but she seemed to be raised right up just when the call came to
her. Not as she’s ever given up doctoring, and she’s had sick spells right
along; but she’s had the strength given her to care for those two for over
twenty years, and before the accident came she thought she couldn’t even care
for herself.”
Mrs. Hale paused a moment, and I remained silent, plunged in the vision of
what her words evoked. “It’s horrible for them all,” I murmured.
“Yes: it’s pretty bad. And they ain’t any of ‘em easy people either. Mattie
was, before the accident; I never knew a sweeter nature. But she’s suffered
too much—that’s what I always say when folks tell me how she’s soured. And

Zeena, she was always cranky. Not but what she bears with Mattie wonderful
—I’ve seen that myself. But sometimes the two of them get going at each
other, and then Ethan’s face’d break your heart ... When I see that, I think it’s
him that suf fers most ... anyhow it ain’t Zeena, because she ain’t got the time
... It’s a pity, though,” Mrs. Hale ended, sighing, “that they’re all shut up
there’n that one kitchen. In the summertime, on pleasant days, they move
Mattie into the parlour, or out in the door-yard, and that makes it easier ... but
winters there’s the fires to be thought of; and there ain’t a dime to spare up at
the Fromes’.”
Mrs. Hale drew a deep breath, as though her memory were eased of its long
burden, and she had no more to say; but suddenly an impulse of complete
avowal seized her.
She took off her spectacles again, leaned toward me across the bead-work
table-cover, and went on with lowered voice: “There was one day, about a
week after the accident, when they all thought Mattie couldn’t live. Well, I
say it’s a pity she did. I said it right out to our minister once, and he was
shocked at me. Only he wasn’t with me that morning when she first came to
... And I say, if she’d ha’ died, Ethan might ha’ lived; and the way they are
now, I don’t see’s there’s much difference between the Fromes up at the farm
and the Fromes down in the graveyard; ‘cept that down there they’re all quiet,
and the women have got to hold their tongues.”

1
THE PRETEXT

I.
MRS. RANSOM, WHEN THE front door had closed on her visitor, passed
with a spring from the drawing-room to the narrow hall, and thence up the
narrow stairs to her bedroom.
Though slender, and still light of foot, she did not always move so quickly:
hitherto, in her life, there had not been much to hurry for, save the recurring
domestic tasks that compel haste without fostering elasticity; but some
impetus of youth revived, communicated to her by her talk with Guy
Dawnish, now found expression in her girlish flight upstairs, her girlish
impatience to bolt herself into her room with her throbs and her blushes.
Her blushes? Was she really blushing?
She approached the cramped eagle-topped mirror above her plain prim
dressing-table: just such a meagre concession to the weakness of the flesh as
2
every old-fashioned house in Wentworth counted among its relics. The face
reflected in this unflattering surface—for even the mirrors of Wentworth erred
on the side of depreciation—did not seem, at first sight, a suitable theatre for
the display of the tenderer emotions, and its owner blushed more deeply as
the fact was forced upon her.
Her fair hair had grown too thin—it no longer quite hid the blue veins in the
candid forehead that one seemed to see turned toward professorial desks, in
large bare halls where a snowy winter light fell uncompromisingly on rows of
“thoughtful women.” Her mouth was thin, too, and a little strained; her lips
were too pale; and there were lines in the corners of her eyes. It was a face
which had grown middle-aged while it waited for the joys of youth.
Well—but if she could still blush? Instinctively she drew back a little, so
that her scrutiny became less microscopic, and the pretty lingering pink threw
a veil over her pallour, the hollows in her temples, the faint wrinkles of
inexperience about her lips and eyes. How a little colour helped! It made her
eyes so deep and shining. She saw now why bad women rouged.... her
redness deepened at the thought.
But suddenly she noticed for the first time that the collar of her dress was
too low. It showed the shrunken lines of the throat. She rummaged feverishly
in a tidy scentless drawer, and snatching out a bit of black velvet, bound it
about her neck. Yes—that was better. It gave her the relief she needed. Relief
—contrast—that was it! She had never had any, either in her appearance or in

her setting. She was as flat as the pattern of the wall-paper—and so was her
life. And all the people about her had the same look. Wentworth was the kind
of place where husbands and wives gradually grew to resemble each other—
one or two of her friends, she remembered, had told her lately that she and
Ransom were beginning to look alike....
But why had she always, so tamely, allowed her aspect to conform to her
situation? Perhaps a gayer exterior would have provoked a brighter fate. Even
now—she turned back to the glass, loosened her tight strands of hair, ran the
fine end of the comb under them with a frizzing motion, and then disposed
them, more lightly and amply, above her eager face. Yes—it was really better;
it made a difference. She smiled at herself with a timid coquetry, and her lips
seemed rosier as she smiled. Then she laid down the comb and the smile
faded. It made a difference, certainly—but was it right to try to make one’s
hair look thicker and wavier than it really was? Between that and rouging the
ethical line seemed almost imperceptible, and the spectre of her rigid New
England ancestry rose reprovingly before her. She was sure that none of her
grandmothers had ever simulated a curl or encouraged a blush. A blush,
indeed! What had any of them ever had to blush for in all their frozen lives?
And what, in Heaven’s name, had she? She sat down in the stiff mahogany
rocking-chair beside her work-table and tried to collect herself. From
childhood she had been taught to “collect herself”—but never before had her
small sensations and aspirations been so widely scattered, diffused over so
vague and uncharted an expanse. Hitherto they had lain in neatly sorted and
easily accessible bundles on the high shelves of a perfectly ordered moral
consciousness. And now—now that for the first time they needed collecting—
now that the little winged and scattered bits of self were dancing madly down
the vagrant winds of fancy, she knew no spell to call them to the fold again.
The best way, no doubt—if only her bewilderment permitted—was to go back
to the beginning—the beginning, at least, of to-day’s visit—to recapitulate,
word for word and look for look....
She clasped her hands on the arms of the chair, checked its swaying with a
thrust of her foot, and fixed her eyes on the inward vision....
To begin with, what had made to-day’s visit so different from the others? It
became suddenly vivid to her that there had been many, almost daily, others,
since Guy Dawnish’s coming to Wentworth. Even the previous winter—the
winter of his arrival from England—his visits had been numerous enough to
make Wentworth aware that—very naturally—Mrs. Ransom was “looking
after” the stray young Englishman committed to her husband’s care by an
l
eminent Q. C. whom the Ransoms had known on one of their London visits,

and with whom Ransom had since maintained professional relations. All this
was in the natural order of things, as sanctioned by the social code of
Wentworth. Every one was kind to Guy Dawnish—some rather importunately
so, as Margaret Ransom had smiled to observe—but it was recognised as
fitting that she should be kindest, since he was in a sense her property, since
his people in England, by profusely acknowledging her kindness, had given it
the domestic sanction without which, to Wentworth, any social relation
between the sexes remained unhallowed and to be viewed askance. Yes! And
even this second winter, when the visits had become so much more frequent,
so admitted a part of the day’s routine, there had not been, from any one, a
hint of surprise or of conjecture.
Mrs. Ransom smiled with a faint bitterness. She was protected by her age,
no doubt-her age and her past, and the image her mirror gave back to her....
Her door-handle turned suddenly, and the bolt’s resistance was met by an
impatient knock.
“Margaret!”
She started up, her brightness fading, and unbolted the door to admit her
husband.
“Why are you locked in? Why, you’re not dressed yet!” he exclaimed.
It was possible for Ransom to reach his dressing-room by a slight circuit
through the passage; but it was characteristic of the relentless domesticity of
their relation that he chose, as a matter of course, the directer way through his
wife’s bedroom. She had never before been disturbed by this practice, which
she accepted as inevitable, but had merely adapted her own habits to it,
delaying her hasty toilet till he was safe in his room, or completing it before
she heard his step on the stair; since a scrupulous traditional prudery had
miraculously survived this massacre of all the privacies.
“Oh, I shan’t dress this evening—I shall just have some tea in the library
after you’ve gone,” she answered absently. “Your things are laid out,” she
added, rousing herself.
He looked surprised. “The dinner’s at seven. I suppose the speeches will
begin at nine. I thought you were coming to hear them.”
She wavered. “I don’t know. I think not. Mrs. Sperry’s ill, and I’ve no one
else to go with.”
He glanced at his watch. “Why not get hold of Dawnish? Wasn’t he here
just now? Why didn’t you ask him?”
She turned toward her dressing-table and straightened the comb and brush

with a nervous hand. Her husband had given her, that morning, two tickets for
the ladies’ gallery in Hamblin Hall, where the great public dinner of the
evening was to take place—a banquet offered by the faculty of Wentworth to
visitors of academic eminence—and she had meant to ask Dawnish to go with
her: it had seemed the most natural thing to do, till the end of his visit came,
and then, after all, she had not spoken....
“It’s too late now,” she murmured, bending over her pincushion.
“Too late? Not if you telephone him.”
Her husband came toward her, and she turned quickly to face him, lest he
should suspect her of trying to avoid his eye. To what duplicity was she
already committed!
Ransom laid a friendly hand on her arm: “Come along, Margaret. You know
I speak for the bar.” She was aware, in his voice, of a little note of surprise at
his having to remind her of this.
“Oh, yes. I meant to go, of course—”
“Well, then—” He opened his dressing-room door, and caught a glimpse of
the retreating house-maid’s skirt. “Here’s Maria now. Maria! Call up Mr.
Dawnish—at Mrs. Creswell‘s, you know. Tell him Mrs. Ransom wants him to
go with her to hear the speeches this evening—the speeches, you understand?
—and he’s to call for her at a quarter before nine.”
Margaret heard the Irish “Yessir” on the stairs, and stood motionless while
her husband added loudly: “And bring me some towels when you come up.”
Then he turned back into his wife’s room.
“Why, it would be a thousand pities for Guy to miss this. He’s so interested
in the way we do things over here—and I don’t know that he’s ever heard me
speak in public.” Again the slight note of fatuity! Was it possible that Ransom
was fatuous?
He paused in front of her, his short-sighted unobservant glance turned
unexpectedly on her face.
“You’re not going like that, are you?” he asked, with glaring eyeglasses.
“Like what?” she faltered, lifting a conscious hand to the velvet at her
throat.
“With your hair in such a fearful mess. Have you been shampooing it? You
look like the Brant girl at the end of a tennis-match.”
The Brant girl was their horror—the horror of all right-thinking Wentworth;
a laced, whale-boned, frizzle-headed, high-heeled daughter of iniquity, who

came—from New York, of course—on long disturbing tumultuous visits to a
Wentworth aunt, working havoc among the freshmen, and leaving, when she
departed, an angry wake of criticism that ruffled the social waters for weeks.
She, too, had tried her hand at Guy—with ludicrous unsuccess. And now, to
3
be compared to her—to be accused of looking “New Yorky!” Ah, there are
times when husbands are obtuse; and Ransom, as he stood there, thick and yet
juiceless, in his dry legal middle age, with his wiry dust-coloured beard and
m
his perpetual pince-nez, seemed to his wife a sudden embodiment of this
traditional attribute. Not that she had ever fancied herself, poor soul, a
”n
“femme incomprise. She had, on the contrary, prided herself on being
understood by her husband almost as much as on her own complete
comprehension of him. Wentworth laid a good deal of stress on “motives”;
and Margaret Ransom and her husband had dwelt in complete community of
motive. It had been the proudest day of her life when, without consulting her,
he had refused an offer of partnership in an eminent New York firm because
he preferred the distinction of practising in Wentworth, of being known as the
legal representative of the University. Wentworth, in fact, had always been the
bond between the two; they were united in their veneration for that estimable
seat of learning, and in their modest yet vivid consciousness of possessing its
tone. The Wentworth “tone” is unmistakable: it permeates every part of the
o
social economy, from the coiffure of the ladies to the preparation of the food.
p
It has its sumptuary laws as well as its curriculum of learning. It sits in
judgment not only on its own townsmen but on the rest of the world—
enlightening, criticising, ostracising a heedless universe—and non-conformity
to Wentworth standards involves obliteration from Wentworth’s
consciousness.
In a world without traditions, without reverence, without stability, such little
expiring centres of prejudice and precedent make an irresistible appeal to
4
those instincts for which a democracy has neglected to provide. Wentworth,
with its “tone,” its backward references, its inflexible aversions and
condemnations, its hard moral outline preserved intact against a whirling
background of experiment, had been all the poetry and history of Margaret
Ransom’s life. Yes, what she had really esteemed in her husband was the fact
of his being so intense an embodiment of Wentworth; so long and closely
identified, for instance, with its legal affairs, that he was almost a part of its
university existence, that of course, at a college banquet, he would inevitably
speak for the bar!

It was wonderful of how much consequence all this had seemed till now....

II.
WHEN, PUNCTUALLY AT TEN minutes to seven, her husband had
emerged from the house, Margaret Ransom remained seated in her bedroom,
addressing herself anew to the difficult process of self-collection. As an aid to
this endeavour, she bent forward and looked out of the window, following
Ransom’s figure as it receded down the elm-shaded street. He moved almost
alone between the prim flow erless grass-plots, the white porches, the
protrusion of irrelevant shingled gables, which stamped the empty street as
part of an American college town. She had always been proud of living in Hill
Street, where the university people congregated, proud to associate her
husband’s retreating back, as he walked daily to his office, with backs literary
and pedagogic, backs of which it was whispered, for the edification of duly-
impressed visitors: “Wait till that old boy turns—that’s so-and-so.”
This had been her world, a world destitute of personal experience, but filled
with a rich sense of privilege and distinction, of being not as those millions
were who, denied the inestimable advantage of living at Wentworth, pursued
elsewhere careers foredoomed to futility.
And now—!
She rose and turned to her work-table, where she had dropped, on entering,
the handful of photographs that Guy Dawnish had left with her. While he sat
so close, pointing out and explaining, she had hardly taken in the details; but
now, on the full tones of his low young voice, they came back with redoubled
q
distinctness. This was Guise Abbey, his uncle’s place in Wiltshire, where,
under his grand-father’s rule, Guy’s own boyhood had been spent: a long
r
gabled Jacobean façade, many-chimneyed, ivy-draped, overhung (she felt
sure) by the boughs of a venerable rookery. And in this other picture—the
walled garden at Guise—that was his uncle, Lord Askern, a hale gouty-
looking figure, planted robustly on the terrace, a gun on his shoulder and a
couple of setters at his feet. And here was the river below the park, with Guy
”s
“punting a girl in a flapping hat—how Margaret hated the flap that hid the
girl’s face! And here was the tennis-court, with Guy among a jolly cross-
legged group of youths in flannels, and pretty girls about the tea-table under
the big lime: in the centre the curate handing bread and butter, and in the
middle distance a footman approaching with more cups.
Margaret raised this picture closer to her eyes, puzzling, in the diminished

light, over the face of the girl nearest to Guy Dawnish—bent above him in
profile, while he laughingly lifted his head. No hat hid this profile, which
stood out clearly against the foliage behind it.
“And who is that handsome girl?” Margaret had said, detaining the
photograph as he pushed it aside, and struck by the fact that, of the whole
group, he had left only this member unnamed.
“Oh, only Gwendolen Matcher—I’ve always known her—. Look at this: the
almshouses at Guise. Aren’t they jolly?”
And then—without her having had the courage to ask if the girl in the punt
were also Gwendolen Matcher—they passed on to photographs of his rooms
at Oxford, of a cousin’s studio in London—one of Lord Askern’s grandsons
was “artistic”—of the rose-hung cottage in Wales to which, on the old Earl’s
death, his daughter-in-law, Guy’s mother, had retired.
Every one of the photographs opened a window on the life Margaret had
been trying to picture since she had known him—a life so rich, so romantic,
so packed—in the mere casual vocabulary of daily life—with historic
reference and poetic allusion, that she felt almost oppressed by this distant
whiff of its air. The very words he used fascinated and bewildered her. He
seemed to have been born into all sorts of connections, political, historical,
official, that made the Ransom situation at Wentworth as featureless as the
top-shelf of a dark closet. Some one in the family had “asked for the Chiltern
5 6
Hundreds” —one uncle was an Elder Brother of the Trinity House —some
one else was the Master of a College—some one was in command at
7
Devonport —the Army, the Navy, the House of Commons, the House of
Lords, the most venerable seats of learning, were all woven into the dense
background of this young man’s light unconscious talk. For the
unconsciousness was unmistakable. Margaret was not without experience of
the transatlantic visitor who sounds loud names and evokes reverberating
connections. The poetry of Guy Dawnish’s situation lay in the fact that it was
so completely a part of early associations and accepted facts. Life was like
that in England—in Wentworth, of course (where he had been sent, through
his uncle’s influence, for two years’ training in the neighbouring electrical
works at Smedden)—in Wentworth, though “immensely jolly,” it was
different. The fact that he was qualifying to be an electrical engineer—with
the hope of a secretaryship at the London end of the great Smedden Company
—that, at best, he was returning home to a life of industrial “grind,” this fact,
though avowedly a bore, did not disconnect him from that brilliant pinnacled
past, that many-faceted existence in which the brightest episodes of the whole

body of English fiction seemed collectively reflected. Of course he would
have to work—younger sons’ sons almost always had to—but his uncle
Askern (like Wentworth) was “immensely jolly,” and Guise always open to
him, and his other uncle, the Master, a capital old boy too—and in town he
could always put up with his clever aunt, Lady Caroline Duckett, who had
made a “beastly marriage” and was horribly poor, but who knew everybody
jolly and amusing, and had always been particularly kind to him.
It was not—and Margaret had not, even in her own thoughts, to defend
herself from the imputation—it was not what Wentworth would have called
the “material side” of her friend’s situation that captivated her. She was
austerely proof against such appeals: her enthusiasms were all of the
imaginative order. What subjugated her was the unexampled prodigality with
which he poured for her the same draught of tradition of which Wentworth
held out its little teacupful. He besieged her with a million Wentworths in one
—saying, as it were: “All these are mine for the asking—and I choose you
instead!”
For this, she told herself somewhat dizzily, was what it came to—the
summing-up toward which her conscientious efforts at self-collection had
been gradually pushing her: with all this in reach, Guy Dawnish was leaving
Wentworth reluctantly.
“I was a bit lonely here at first—but now!” And again: “It will be jolly, of
course, to see them all again—but there are some things one doesn’t easily
give up....”
If he had known only Wentworth, it would have been wonderful enough that
he should have chosen her out of all Wentworth—but to have known that
other life, and to set her in the balance against it—poor Margaret Ransom, in
whom, at the moment, nothing seemed of weight but her years! Ah, it might
well produce, in nerves, and brain, and poor unpractised pulses, a flushed
tumult of sensation, the rush of a great wave of life, under which memory
struggled in vain to reassert itself, to particularise again just what his last
words—the very last—had been....
When consciousness emerged, quivering, from this retrospective assault, it
pushed Margaret Ransom—feeling herself a mere leaf in the blast—toward
the writing-table from which her innocent and voluminous correspondence
habitually flowed. She had a letter to write now—much shorter but more
difficult than any she had ever been called on to indite.
“Dear Mr. Dawnish,” she began, “since telephoning you just now I have

decided not—”
Maria’s voice, at the door, announced that tea was in the library: “And I
s‘pose it’s the brown silk you’ll wear to the speaking?”
In the usual order of the Ransom existence, its mistress’s toilet was
performed unassisted; and the mere enquiry—at once friendly and deferential
—projected, for Margaret, a strong light on the importance of the occasion.
That she should answer “But I am not going,” when the going was so
manifestly part of a household solemnity about which the thoughts below
stairs fluttered in proud participation; that in face of such participation she
should utter a word implying indifference or hesitation—nay, revealing
herself the transposed uprooted thing she had been on the verge of becoming;
to do this was—well! infinitely harder than to perform the alternative act of
tearing up the sheet of note-paper under her reluctant pen.
Yes, she said, she would wear the brown silk....

III.
ALL THE HEAT AND glare from the long illuminated table, about which the
fumes of many courses still hung in a savoury fog, seemed to surge up to the
ladies’ gallery, and concentrate themselves in the burning cheeks of a slender
figure withdrawn behind the projection of a pillar.
It never occurred to Margaret Ransom that she was sitting in the shade. She
supposed that the full light of the chandeliers was beating on her face—and
there were moments when it seemed as though all the heads about the great
horse-shoe below, bald, shaggy, sleek, close-thatched, or thinly latticed, were
equipped with an additional pair of eyes, set at an angle which enabled them
to rake her face as relentlessly as the electric burners.
In the lull after a speech, the gallery was fluttering with the rustle of
programmes consulted, and Mrs. Sheff (the Brant girl’s aunt) leaned forward
to say enthusiastically: “And now we’re to hear Mr. Ransom!”
A louder buzz rose from the table, and the heads (without relaxing their
upward vigilance) seemed to merge and flow together, like an attentive flood,
toward the upper end of the horse-shoe, where all the threads of Margaret
Ransom’s consciousness were suddenly drawn into what seemed a small
speck, no more—a black speck that rose, hung in air, dissolved into gyrating
gestures, became distended, enormous, preponderant—became her husband
“speaking.”
“It’s the heat—” Margaret gasped, pressing her handkerchief to her
whitening lips, and finding just strength enough left to push back farther into
the shadow.
She felt a touch on her arm. “It is horrible—shall we go?” a voice
suggested; and, “Yes, yes, let us go,” she whispered, feeling, with a great
throb of relief, that to be the only possible, the only conceivable, solution. To
sit and listen to her husband now—how could she ever have thought she could
survive it? Luckily, under the lingering hubbub from below, his opening
words were inaudible, and she had only to run the gauntlet of sympathetic
feminine glances, shot after her between waving fans and programmes, as,
guided by Guy Dawnish, she managed to reach the door. It was really so hot
that even Mrs. Sheff was not much surprised—till long afterward....
The winding staircase was empty, half dark and blessedly silent. In a

committee room below Dawnish found the inevitable water jug, and filled a
glass for her, while she leaned back, confronted only by a frowning college
President in an emblazoned frame. The academic frown descended on her like
an anathema when she rose and followed her companion out of the building.
Hamblin Hall stands at the end of the long green “Campus” with its
sextuple line of elms—the boast and singularity of Wentworth. A pale spring
moon, rising above the dome of the University Library, at the opposite end of
the elm-walk, diffused a pearly mildness in the sky, melted to thin haze the
shadows of the trees, and turned to golden yellow the lights of the college
windows. Against this soft suffusion of light the Library cupola assumed a
8
Bramantesque grace, the white steeple of the congregational church became
t
a campanile topped by a winged spirit, and the scant porticoes of the older
halls the colonnades of classic temples.
“This is better—” Dawnish said, as they passed down the steps and under
the shadow of the elms.
They moved on a little way in silence before he began again: “You’re too
tired to walk. Let us sit down a few minutes.”
Her feet, in truth, were leaden, and not far off a group of park benches,
encircling the pedestal of a patriot in bronze, invited them to rest. But
Dawnish was guiding her toward a lateral path which bent, through
shrubberies, toward a strip of turf between two buildings.
“It will be cooler by the river,” he said, moving on without waiting for a
possible protest. None came: it seemed easier, for the moment, to let herself
be led without any conventional feint of resistance. And besides, there was
nothing wrong about this—the wrong would have been in sitting up there in
the glare, pretending to listen to her husband, a dutiful wife among her kind....
The path descended, as both knew, to the chosen, the inimitable spot of
Wentworth: that fugitive curve of the river, where, before hurrying on to glut
the brutal industries of South Wentworth and Smedden, it simulated for a few
hundred yards the leisurely pace of an ancient university stream, with willows
on its banks and a stretch of turf extending from the grounds of Hamblin Hall
to the boat houses at the farther bend. Here, too, were benches beneath the
willows, and so close to the river that the voice of its gliding softened and
filled out the reverberating silence between Margaret and her companion, and
made her feel that she knew why he had brought her there.
“Do you feel better?” he asked gently as he sat down beside her.
“Oh, yes. I only needed a little air.”

“I’m so glad you did. Of course the speeches were tremendously interesting
—but I prefer this. What a good night!”
“Yes.”
There was a pause, which now, after all, the soothing accompaniment of the
river seemed hardly sufficient to fill.
“I wonder what time it is. I ought to be going home,” Margaret began at
length.
“Oh, it’s not late. They’ll be at it for hours in there—yet.”
She made a faint inarticulate sound. She wanted to say: “No—Robert’s
speech was to be the last—” but she could not bring herself to pronounce
Ransom’s name, and at the moment no other way of refuting her companion’s
statement occurred to her.
The young man leaned back luxuriously, reassured by her silence.
“You see it’s my last chance—and I want to make the most of it.”
“Your last chance?” How stupid of her to repeat his words on that cooing
note of interrogation! It was just such a lead as the Brant girl might have
given him.
“To be with you—like this. I haven’t had so many. And there’s less than a
week left.”
She attempted to laugh. “Perhaps it will sound longer if you call it five
days.”
The flatness of that, again! And she knew there were people who called her
intelligent. Fortunately he did not seem to notice it; but her laugh continued to
sound in her own ears—the coquettish chirp of middle age! She decided that
if he spoke again—if he said anything—she would make no farther effort at
evasion: she would take it directly, seriously, frankly—she would not be
doubly disloyal.
“Besides,” he continued, throwing his arm along the back of the bench, and
turning toward her so that his face was like a dusky bas relief with a silver rim
—“besides, there’s something I’ve been wanting to tell you.”
The sound of the river seemed to cease altogether: the whole world became
silent.
Margaret had trusted her inspiration farther than it appeared likely to carry
her. Again she could think of nothing happier than to repeat, on the same
witless note of interrogation: “To tell me?”

“You only.”
The constraint, the difficulty, seemed to be on his side now: she divined it
by the renewed shifting of his attitude—he was capable, usually, of such fine
intervals of immobility—and by a confusion in his utterance that set her own
voice throbbing in her throat.
“You’ve been so perfect to me,” he began again. “It’s not my fault if you’ve
made me feel that you would understand everything—make allowances for
everything—see just how a man may have held out, and fought against a
thing—as long as he had the strength.... This may be my only chance; and I
can’t go away without telling you.”
He had turned from her now, and was staring at the river, so that his profile
was projected against the moonlight in all its beautiful young dejection.
There was a slight pause, as though he waited for her to speak; then she
leaned forward and laid her hand on his.
“If I have really been—if I have done for you even the least part of what
you say... what you imagine... will you do for me, now, just one thing in
return?”
He sat motionless, as if fearing to frighten away the shy touch on his hand,
and she left it there, conscious of her gesture only as part of the high ritual of
their farewell.
“What do you want me to do?” he asked in a low tone.
“Not to tell me!” she breathed on a deep note of entreaty.
“Not to tell you—?”
“Anything—anything—just to leave our... our friendship... as it has been—
as—as a painter, if a friend asked him, might leave a picture—not quite
finished, perhaps, ... but all the more exquisite....”
She felt the hand under hers slip away, recover itself, and seek her own,
which had flashed out of reach in the same instant—felt the start that swept
him round on her as if he had been caught and turned about by the shoulders.
“You—you—?” he stammered, in a strange voice full of fear and
tenderness; but she held fast, so centred in her inexorable resolve that she was
hardly conscious of the effect her words might be producing.
“Don’t you see,” she hurried on, “don’t you feel how much safer it is—yes,
I’m willing to put it so!—how much safer to leave everything undisturbed...
just as ... as it has grown of itself... without trying to say: ‘It’s this or that’...?
It’s what we each choose to call it to ourselves, after all, isn’t it? Don’t let us

try to find a name that... that we should both agree upon... we probably
shouldn’t succeed.” She laughed abruptly. “And ghosts vanish when one
names them!” she ended with a break in her voice.
When she ceased her heart was beating so violently that there was a rush in
her ears like the noise of the river after rain, and she did not immediately
make out what he was answering. But as she recovered her lucidity she said to
herself that, whatever he was saying, she must not hear it; and she began to
speak again, half playfully, half appealingly, with an eloquence of entreaty, an
ingenuity in argument, of which she had never dreamed herself capable. And
then, suddenly, strangling hands seemed to reach up from her heart to her
throat, and she had to stop.
Her companion remained motionless. He had not tried to regain her hand,
and his eyes were away from her, on the river. But his nearness had become
something formidable and exquisite—something she had never before
imagined. A flush of guilt swept over her—vague reminiscences of French
novels and of opera plots. This was what such women felt, then... this was
“shame.” ... Phrases of the newspaper and the pulpit danced before her.... She
dared not speak, and his silence began to frighten her. Had ever a heart beat so
wildly before in Wentworth?
He turned at last, and taking her two hands, quite simply, kissed them one
after the other.
“I shall never forget—” he said in a confused voice, unlike his own.
A return of strength enabled her to rise, and even to let her eyes meet his for
a moment.
“Thank you,” she said, simply also.
She turned away from the bench, regaining the path that led back to the
college buildings, and he walked beside her in silence. When they reached the
elm walk it was dotted with dispersing groups. The “speaking” was at an end,
and Hamblin Hall had poured its audience out into the moonlight. Margaret
felt a rush of relief, followed by a receding wave of regret. She had the
distinct sensation that her hour—her one hour—was over.
One of the groups just ahead broke up as they approached, and projected
Ransom’s solid bulk against the moonlight.
“My husband,” she said, hastening forward; and she never afterward forgot
the look of his back—heavy, round-shouldered, yet a little pompous—in a
badly fitting overcoat that stood out at the neck and hid his collar. She had
never before noticed how he dressed.

IV.
THEY MET AGAIN, INEVITABLY, before Dawnish left; but the thing she
feared did not happen—he did not try to see her alone.
It even became clear to her, in looking back, that he had deliberately
avoided doing so; and this seemed merely an added proof of his
“understanding,” of that deep undefinable communion that set them alone in
an empty world, as if on a peak above the clouds.
The five days passed in a flash; and when the last one came, it brought to
Margaret Ransom an hour of weakness, of profound disorganisation, when
old barriers fell, old convictions faded—when to be alone with him for a
moment became, after all, the one craving of her heart. She knew he was
coming that afternoon to say “good-bye”—and she knew also that Ransom
was to be away at South Wentworth. She waited alone in her pale little
u
drawing-room, with its scant kakemonos, its one or two chilly reproductions
v
from the antique, its slippery Chippendale chairs. At length the bell rang,
and her world became a rosy cloud—through which she presently discerned
the austere form of Mrs. Sperry, wife of the Professor of palæontology, who
had come to talk over with her the next winter’s programme for the Higher
Thought Club. They debated the question for an hour, and when Mrs. Sperry
departed Margaret had a confused impression that the course was to deal with
the influence of the First Crusade on the development of European
architecture—but the sentient part of her knew only that Dawnish had not
come.
He “bobbed in,” as he would have put it, after dinner—having, it appeared,
run across Ransom early in the day, and learned that the latter would be
absent till evening. Margaret was in the study with her husband when the door
opened and Dawnish stood there. Ransom—who had not had time to dress—
was seated at his desk, a pile of shabby law books at his elbow, the light from
a hanging lamp falling on his grayish stubble of hair, his sallow forehead and
spectacled eyes. Dawnish, towering higher than usual against the shadows of
the room, and refined by his unusual pallour, hung a moment on the threshold,
then came in, explaining himself profusely—laughing, accepting a cigar,
letting Ransom push an arm-chair forward—a Dawnish she had never seen, ill
at ease, ejaculatory, yet somehow more mature, more obscurely in command
of himself.
Margaret drew back, seating herself in the shade, in such a way that she saw

her husband’s head first, and beyond it their visitor‘s, relieved against the
dusk of the book shelves. Her heart was still—she felt no throbbing in her
throat or temples: all her life seemed concentrated in the hand that lay on her
knee, the hand he would touch when they said good-bye.
Afterward her heart rang all the changes, and there was a mood in which
she reproached herself for cowardice—for having deliberately missed her one
moment with him, the moment in which she might have sounded the depths
of life, for joy or anguish. But that mood was fleeting and infrequent. In
quieter hours she blushed for it—she even trembled to think that he might
have guessed such a regret in her. It seemed to convict her of a lack of
fineness that he should have had, in his youth and his power, a tenderer, surer
sense of the peril of a rash touch—should have handled the case so much
more delicately.
At first her days were fire and the nights long solemn vigils. Her thoughts
were no longer vulgarised and defaced by any notion of “guilt.” She was
ashamed now of her shame. What had happened was as much outside the
sphere of her marriage as some transaction in a star. It had simply given her a
secret life of incommunicable joys, as if all the wasted springs of her youth
had been stored in some hidden pool, and she could return there now to bathe
in them.
After that there came a phase of loneliness, through which the life about her
loomed phantasmal and remote. She thought the dead must feel thus,
w
repeating the vain gestures of the living beside some Stygian shore. She
wondered if any other woman had lived to whom nothing had ever happened?
And then his first letter came....
It was a charming letter—a perfect letter. The little touch of awkwardness
and constraint under its boyish spontaneity told her more than whole pages of
eloquence. He spoke of their friendship—of their good days together...
Ransom, chancing to come in while she read, noticed the foreign stamps; and
she was able to hand him the letter, saying gaily: “There’s a message for you,”
and knowing all the while that her message was safe in her heart.
On the days when the letters came the outlines of things grew indistinct, and
she could never afterward remember what she had done or how the business
of life had been carried on. It was always a surprise when she found dinner on
the table as usual, and Ransom seated opposite to her, running over the
evening paper.

But though Dawnish continued to write, with all the English loyalty to the
outward observances of friendship, his communications came only at
intervals of several weeks, and between them she had time to repossess
herself, to regain some sort of normal contact with life. And the customary,
the recurring, gradually reclaimed her, the net of habit tightened again—her
daily life became real, and her one momentary escape from it an exquisite
illusion. Not that she ceased to believe in the miracle that had befallen her;
she still treasured the reality of her one moment beside the river. What reason
was there for doubting it? She could hear the ring of truth in young Dawnish’s
voice: “It’s not my fault if you’ve made me feel that you would understand
everything....” No! she believed in her miracle, and the belief sweetened and
illumined her life; but she came to see that what was for her the
transformation of her whole being might well have been, for her companion, a
mere passing explosion of gratitude, of boyish good-fellowship touched with
the pang of leave-taking. She even reached the point of telling herself that it
was “better so”: this view of the episode so defended it from the alternating
extremes of self-reproach and derision, so enshrined it in a pale immortality to
which she could make her secret pilgrimages without reproach.
For a long time she had not been able to pass by the bench under the
willows—she even avoided the elm walk till autumn had stripped its
branches. But every day, now, she noted a step toward recovery; and at last a
day came when, walking along the river, she said to herself, as she
approached the bench: “I used not to be able to pass here without thinking of
him; and now I am not thinking of him at all!”
This seemed such convincing proof of her recovery that she began, as
spring returned, to permit herself, now and then, a quiet session on the bench
—a dedicated hour from which she went back fortified to her task.
She had not heard from her friend for six weeks or more—the intervals
between his letters were growing longer. But that was “best” too, and she was
not anxious, for she knew he had obtained the post he had been preparing for,
and that his active life in London had begun. The thought reminded her, one
mild March day, that in leaving the house she had thrust in her reticule a letter
from a Wentworth friend who was abroad on a holiday. The envelope bore the
London post mark, a fact showing that the lady’s face was turned toward
home. Margaret seated herself on her bench, and began to read the letter.
The London described was that of shops and museums—as remote as
possible from the setting of Guy Dawnish’s existence. But suddenly
Margaret’s eye fell on his name, and the page began to tremble in her hands.

“I heard such a funny thing yesterday about your friend Mr. Dawnish. We
went to a tea at Professor Bunce’s (I do wish you knew the Bunces—their
atmosphere is so uplifting), and there I met that Miss Bruce-Pringle who came
out last year to take a course in histology at the Annex. Of course she asked
about you and Mr. Ransom, and then she told me she had just seen Mr.
Dawnish’s aunt—the clever one he was always talking about, Lady Caroline
something—and that they were all in a dreadful state about him. I wonder if
you knew he was engaged when he went to America? He never mentioned it
to us. She said it was not a positive engagement, but an understanding with a
girl he has always been devoted to, who lives near their place in Wiltshire;
and both families expected the marriage to take place as soon as he got back.
It seems the girl is an heiress (you know how low the English ideals are
compared with ours), and Miss Bruce-Pringle said his relations were perfectly
delighted at his ‘being provided for,’ as she called it. Well, when he got back
he asked the girl to release him; and she and her family were furious, and so
were his people; but he holds out, and won’t marry her, and won’t give a
reason, except that he has ‘formed an unfortunate attachment.’ Did you ever
hear anything so peculiar? His aunt, who is quite wild about it, says it must
have happened at Wentworth, because he didn’t go anywhere else in America.
Do you suppose it could have been the Brant girl? But why ‘unfortunate’
when everybody knows she would have jumped at him?”
Margaret folded the letter and looked out across the river. It was not the
same river, but a mystic current shot with moonlight. The bare willows wove
a leafy veil above her head, and beside her she felt the nearness of youth and
tempestuous tenderness. It had all happened just here, on this very seat by the
river—it had come to her, and passed her by, and she had not held out a hand
to detain it....
Well! Was it not, by that very abstention, made more deeply and
ineffaceably hers? She could argue thus while she had thought the episode, on
his side, a mere transient effect of propinquity; but now that she knew it had
altered the whole course of his life, now that it took on substance and reality,
asserted a separate existence outside of her own troubled consciousness—now
it seemed almost cowardly to have missed her share in it.
She walked home in a dream. Now and then, when she passed an
acquaintance, she wondered if the pain and glory were written on her face.
But Mrs. Sperry, who stopped her at the corner of Maverick Street to say a
word about the next meeting of the Higher Thought Club, seemed to remark
no change in her.
When she reached home Ransom had not yet returned from the office, and

she went straight to the library to tidy his writing-table. It was part of her
daily duty to bring order out of the chaos of his papers, and of late she had
fastened on such small recurring tasks as some one falling over a precipice
might snatch at the weak bushes in its clefts.
When she had sorted the letters she took up some pamphlets and
newspapers, glancing over them to see if they were to be kept. Among the
papers was a page torn from a London Times of the previous month. Her eye
ran down its columns and suddenly a paragraph flamed out.
“We are requested to state that the marriage arranged between Mr. Guy
Dawnish, son of the late Colonel the Hon. Roderick Dawnish, of Malby,
Wilts, and Gwendolen, daughter of Samuel Matcher, Esq., of Armingham
Towers, Wilts, will not take place.”
Margaret dropped the paper and sat down, hiding her face against the
stained baize of the desk. She remembered the photograph of the tennis-court
at Guise—she remembered the handsome girl at whom Guy Dawnish looked
up, laughing. A gust of tears shook her, loosening the dry surface of
conventional feeling, welling up from unsuspected depths. She was sorry—
very sorry, yet so glad—so ineffably, impenitently glad.

V.
THERE CAME A REACTION in which she decided to write to him. She
even sketched out a letter of sisterly, almost motherly, remonstrance, in which
she reminded him that he “still had all his life before him.” But she reflected
that so, after all, had she; and that seemed to weaken the argument.
In the end she decided not to send the letter. He had never spoken to her of
his engagement to Gwendolen Matcher, and his letters had contained no
allusion to any sentimental disturbance in his life. She had only his few
broken words, that night by the river, on which to build her theory of the case.
But illuminated by the phrase “an unfortunate attachment” the theory towered
up, distinct and immovable, like some high landmark by which travellers
shape their course. She had been loved—extraordinarily loved. But he had
chosen that she should know of it by his silence rather than by his speech. He
had understood that only on those terms could their transcendant communion
continue—that he must lose her to keep her. To break that silence would be
like spilling a cup of water in a waste of sand. There would be nothing left for
her thirst.
Her life, thenceforward, was bathed in a tranquil beauty. The days flowed
by like a river beneath the moon—each ripple caught the brightness and
passed it on. She began to take a renewed interest in her familiar round of
duties. The tasks which had once seemed colourless and irksome had now a
kind of sacrificial sweetness, a symbolic meaning into which she alone was
initiated. She had been restless—had longed to travel; now she felt that she
should never again care to leave Wentworth. But if her desire to wander had
ceased she travelled in spirit, performing invisible pilgrimages in the footsteps
of her friend. She regretted that her one short visit to England had taken her
so little out of London—that her acquaintance with the landscape had been
formed chiefly through the windows of a railway carriage. She threw herself
into the architectural studies of the Higher Thought Club, and distinguished
herself, at the spring meetings, by her fluency, her competence, her
inexhaustible curiosity on the subject of the growth of English Gothic. She
ransacked the shelves of the college library, she borrowed photographs of the
cathedrals, she pored over the folio pages of “The Seats of Noblemen and
Gentlemen.” She was like some banished princess who learns that she has
inherited a domain in her own country, who knows that she will never see it,
yet feels, wherever she walks, its soil beneath her feet.

May was half over, and the Higher Thought Club was to hold its last
meeting, previous to the college festivities which, in early June, agreeably
disorganised the social routine of Wentworth. The meeting was to take place
in Margaret Ransom’s drawing-room, and on the day before she sat upstairs
preparing for her dual duties as hostess and orator—for she had been invited
to read the final paper of the course.
In order to sum up with precision her conclusions on the subject of English
Gothic, she had been re-reading an analysis of the structural features of the
principal English cathedrals; and she was murmuring over to herself the
phrase: “The longitudinal arches of Lincoln have an approximately elliptical
9
form” when there came a knock on the door, and Maria’s voice announced:
“There’s a lady down in the parlour.”
Margaret’s soul dropped from the heights of the shadowy vaulting to the
dead level of an afternoon call at Wentworth.
“A lady? Did she give no name?”
Maria became confused. “She only said she was a lady—” and in reply to
her mistress’s look of mild surprise: “Well, ma‘am, she told me so three or
four times over.”
Margaret laid her book down, leaving it open at the description of Lincoln,
and slowly descended the stairs. As she did so, she repeated to herself: “The
longitudinal arches are elliptical.”
On the threshold below, she had the odd impression that her bare inanimate
drawing-room was brimming with life and noise—an impression produced, as
she presently perceived, by the resolute forward dash—it was almost a
pounce—of the one small figure restlessly measuring its length.
The dash checked itself within a yard of Margaret, and the lady—a stranger
—held back long enough to stamp on her hostess a sharp impression of
sallowness, leanness, keenness, before she said, in a voice that might have
been addressing an unruly committee meeting: “I am Lady Caroline Duckett
—a fact I found it impossible to make clear to the young woman who let me
in.”
A warm wave rushed up from Margaret’s heart to her face. She held out
both hands impulsively. “Oh, I’m so glad—I’d no idea—”
Her voice sank under her visitor’s impartial scrutiny.
“I don’t wonder,” said the latter dryly. “I suppose she didn’t mention either
that my object in calling here was to see Mrs. Ransom?”

“Oh, yes—won’t you sit down?” Margaret pushed a chair forward. She
seated herself at a little distance, brain and heart humming with a confused
interchange of signals. This dark sharp woman was his aunt—the “clever
aunt” who had had such a hard life, but had always managed to keep her head
above water. Margaret remembered that Guy had spoken of her kindness—
perhaps she would seem kinder when they had talked together a little.
Meanwhile the first impression she produced was of an amplitude out of all
proportion to her somewhat scant exterior. With her small flat figure, her
shabby heterogeneous dress, she was as dowdy as any Professor’s wife at
Wentworth; but her dowdiness (Margaret borrowed a literary analogy to
define it), her dowdiness was somehow “of the centre.” Like the insignificant
emissary of a great power, she was to be judged rather by her passports than
her person.
While Margaret was receiving these impressions, Lady Caroline, with quick
bird-like twists of her head, was gathering others from the pale void spaces of
the drawing-room. Her eyes, divided by a sharp nose like a bill, seemed to be
set far enough apart to see at separate angles; but suddenly she bent both of
them on Margaret.
“This is Mrs. Ransom’s house?” she asked, with an emphasis on the verb
that gave a distinct hint of unfulfilled expectations.
Margaret assented.
“Because your American houses, especially in the provincial towns, all look
so remarkably alike, that I thought I might have been mistaken; and as my
time is extremely limited—in fact I’m sailing on Wednesday—”
She paused long enough to let Margaret say: “I had no idea you were in
America.”
Lady Caroline made no attempt to take this up.—“and so much of it,” she
carried on her sentence, “has been wasted in talking to people I really hadn’t
the slightest desire to see, that you must excuse me if I go straight to the
point.”
Margaret felt a sudden tension of the heart. “Of course,” she said, while a
voice within her cried: “He’s dead—he has left me a message.”
There was another pause; then Lady Caroline went on with increasing
asperity: “So that—in short—if I could see Mrs. Ransom at once—”
Margaret looked up in surprise. “I am Mrs. Ransom,” she said.
The other stared a moment, with much the same look of cautious incredulity
that had marked her inspection of the drawing-room. Then light came to her.

“Oh, I beg your pardon. I should have said that I wished to see Mrs. Robert
Ransom, not Mrs. Ransom. But I understood that in the States you don’t make
those distinctions.” She paused a moment, and then went on, before Margaret
could answer: “Perhaps, after all, it’s as well that I should see you instead,
since you’re evidently one of the household—your son and his wife live with
you, I suppose? Yes, on the whole, then, it’s better—I shall be able to talk so
much more frankly.” She spoke as if, as a rule, circumstances prevented her
giving rein to this prosperity. “And frankness, of course, is the only way out
of this—this extremely tiresome complication. You know, I suppose, that my
nephew thinks he’s in love with your daughter-in-law?”
Margaret made a slight movement, but her visitor pressed on without
heeding it. “Oh, don’t fancy, please, that I’m pretending to take a high moral
ground—though his mother does, poor dear! I can perfectly imagine that in a
place like this—I’ve just been walking about it for two hours—a young man
of Guy’s age would have to provide himself with some sort of distraction; and
he’s not the kind to go in for anything objectionable. Oh, we quite allow for
that—we should allow for the whole affair, if it hadn’t so preposterously
ended in his throwing over the girl he was engaged to, and upsetting an
arrangement that affected a number of people besides himself. I understand
that in the States it’s different—the young people have only themselves to
consider. In England—in our class, I mean—a great deal may depend on a
young man’s making a good match; and in Guy’s case I may say that his
mother and sisters (I won’t include myself, though I might) have been simply
stranded—thrown overboard—by his freak. You can understand how serious
it is when I tell you that it’s that and nothing else that has brought me all the
way to America. And my first idea was to go straight to your daughter-in-law,
since her influence is the only thing we can count on now, and put it to her
fairly, as I’m putting it to you. But, on the whole, I dare say it’s better to see
you first—you might give me an idea of the line to take with her. I’m
prepared to throw myself on her mercy!”
Margaret rose from her chair, outwardly rigid in proportion to her inward
tremor.
“You don’t understand—” she began.
Lady Caroline brushed the interruption aside. “Oh, but I do—completely! I
cast no reflection on your daughter-in-law. Guy has made it quite clear to us
that his attachment is—has, in short, not been rewarded. But don’t you see
that that’s the worst part of it? There’d be much more hope of his recovering
if Mrs. Robert Ransom had—had—”

Margaret’s voice broke from her in a cry. “I am Mrs. Robert Ransom,” she
said.
If Lady Caroline Duckett had hitherto given her hostess the impression of a
person not easily silenced, this fact added sensibly to the effect produced by
the intense stillness which now fell on her.
She sat quite motionless, her large bangled hands clasped about the meagre
fur boa she had unwound from her neck on entering, her rusty black veil
pushed up to the edge of a “fringe” of doubtful authenticity, her thin lips
parted on a gasp that seemed to sharpen itself on the edges of her teeth. So
overwhelming and helpless was her silence that Margaret began to feel a
motion of pity beneath her indignation—a desire at least to facilitate the
excuses which must terminate their disastrous colloquy. But when Lady
Caroline found voice she did not use it to excuse herself.
“You can’t be,” she said, quite simply.
“Can’t be?” Margaret stammered, with a flushing cheek.
“I mean, it’s some mistake. Are there two Mrs. Robert Ransoms in the same
town? Your family arrangements are so extremely puzzling.” She had a
farther rush of enlightenment. “Oh, I see! I ought of course to have asked for
Mrs. Robert Ransom Junior!”
The idea sent her to her feet with a haste which showed her impatience to
make up for lost time.
“There is no other Mrs. Robert Ransom at Wentworth,” said Margaret.
“No other—no ‘Junior’? Are you sure?” Lady Caroline fell back into her
seat again. “Then I simply don’t see,” she murmured.
Margaret’s blush had fixed itself on her throbbing forehead. She remained
standing, while her strange visitor continued to gaze at her with a perturbation
in which the consciousness of indiscretion had evidently as yet no part.
“I simply don’t see,” she repeated.
Suddenly she sprang up, and advancing to Margaret, laid an inspired hand
on her arm. “But, my dear woman, you can help us out all the same; you can
help us to find out who it is—and you will, won’t you? Because, as it’s not
you, you can’t in the least mind what I’ve been saying—”
Margaret, freeing her arm from her visitor’s hold, drew back a step; but
Lady Caroline instantly rejoined her.
“Of course, I can see that if it had been, you might have been annoyed: I
dare say I put the case stupidly—but I’m so bewildered by this new

development—by his using you all this time as a pretext—that I really don’t
know where to turn for light on the mystery—”
She had Margaret in her imperious grasp again, but the latter broke from her
with a more resolute gesture.
“I’m afraid I have no light to give you,” she began; but once more Lady
Caroline caught her up.
“Oh, but do please understand me! I condemn Guy most strongly for using
your name—when we all know you’d been so amazingly kind to him! I
haven’t a word to say in his defence—but of course the important thing now
is: who is the woman, since you’re not?”
The question rang out loudly, as if all the pale puritan corners of the room
flung it back with a shudder at the speaker. In the silence that ensued
Margaret felt the blood ebbing back to her heart; then she said, in a distinct
and level voice: “I know nothing of the history of Mr. Dawnish.”
Lady Caroline gave a stare and a gasp. Her distracted hand groped for her
boa, and she began to wind it mechanically about her long neck.
“It would really be an enormous help to us—and to poor Gwendolen
Matcher,” she persisted pleadingly. “And you’d be doing Guy himself a good
turn.”
Margaret remained silent and motionless while her visitor drew on one of
the worn gloves she had pulled off to adjust her veil. Lady Caroline gave the
veil a final twitch.
“I’ve come a tremendously long way,” she said, “and, since it isn’t you, I
can’t think why you won’t help me....”
When the door had closed on her visitor Margaret Ransom went slowly up
the stairs to her room. As she dragged her feet from one step to another, she
remembered how she had sprung up the same steep flight after that visit of
Guy Dawnish’s when she had looked in the glass and seen on her face the
blush of youth.
When she reached her room she bolted the door as she had done that day,
and again looked at herself in the narrow mirror above her dressing-table. It
was just a year since then—the elms were budding again, the willows hanging
their green veil above the bench by the river. But there was no trace of youth
left in her face—she saw it now as others had doubtless always seen it. If it
seemed as it did to Lady Caroline Duckett, what look must it have worn to the

fresh gaze of young Guy Dawnish?
A pretext—she had been a pretext. He had used her name to screen some
one else—or perhaps merely to escape from a situation of which he was
weary. She did not care to conjecture what his motive had been—everything
connected with him had grown so remote and alien. She felt no anger—only
an unspeakable sadness, a sadness which she knew would never be appeased.
She looked at herself long and steadily: she wished to clear her eyes of all
illusions. Then she turned away and took her usual seat beside her work-table.
From where she sat she could look down the empty elm-shaded street, up
which, at this hour every day, she was sure to see her husband’s figure
advancing. She would see it presently—she would see it for many years to
come. She had an aching vision of the length of the years that stretched before
her. Strange that one who was not young should still, in all likelihood, have so
long to live!
Nothing was changed in the setting of her life, perhaps nothing would ever
change in it. She would certainly live and die in Wentworth. And meanwhile
the days would go on as usual, bringing the usual obligations. As the word
flitted through her brain she remembered that she had still to put the finishing
touches to the paper she was to read the next afternoon at the meeting of the
Higher Thought Club.
The book she had been reading lay face downward beside her, where she
had left it an hour ago. She took it up, and slowly and painfully, like a child
labouriously spelling out the syllables, she went on with the rest of the
sentence:
—“and they spring from a level not much above that of the springing of the
transverse and diagonal ribs, which are so arranged as to give a convex curve
x10
to the surface of the vaulting conoid.”

1
AFTERWARD

I.
“OH, THERE IS ONE, of course, but you’ll never know it.”
The assertion, laughingly flung out six months earlier in a bright June
garden, came back to Mary Boyne with a new perception of its significance as
she stood, in the December dusk, waiting for the lamps to be brought into the
library.
The words had been spoken by their friend Alida Stair, as they sat at tea on
her lawn at Pangbourne, in reference to the very house of which the library in
question was the central, the pivotal “feature.” Mary Boyne and her husband,
in quest of a country place in one of the southern or southwestern counties,
had, on their arrival in England, carried their problem straight to Alida Stair,
who had successfully solved it in her own case; but it was not until they had
rejected, almost capriciously, several practical and judicious suggestions that
2
she threw out: “Well, there’s Lyng, in Dorsetshire. It belongs to Hugo’s
cousins, and you can get it for a song.”
The reason she gave for its being obtainable on these terms—its remoteness
from a station, its lack of electric light, hot-water pipes, and other vulgar
necessities—were exactly those pleading in its favour with two romantic
Americans perversely in search of the economic drawbacks which were
associated, in their tradition, with unusual architectural felicities.
“I should never believe I was living in an old house unless I was thoroughly
uncomfortable,” Ned Boyne, the more extravagant of the two, had jocosely
insisted; “the least hint of ‘convenience’ would make me think it had been
bought out of an exhibition, with the pieces numbered, and set up again.” And
they had proceeded to enumerate, with humorous precision, their various
doubts and demands, refusing to believe that the house their cousin
y
recommended was really Tudor till they learned it had no heating system, or
that the village church was literally in the grounds till she assured them of the
deplorable uncertainty of the water-supply.
“It’s too uncomfortable to be true!” Edward Boyne had continued to exult as
the avowal of each disadvantage was successively wrung from her; but he had
cut short his rhapsody to ask, with a relapse to distrust: “And the ghost?
You’ve been concealing from us the fact that there is no ghost!”
Mary, at the moment, had laughed with him, yet almost with her laugh,
being possessed of several sets of independent perceptions, had been struck

by a note of flatness in Alida’s answering hilarity.
“Oh, Dorsetshire’s full of ghosts, you know.”
“Yes, yes; but that won’t do. I don’t want to have to drive ten miles to see
somebody else’s ghost. I want one of my own on the premises. Is there a
ghost at Lyng?”
His rejoinder had made Alida laugh again, and it was then that she had
flung back tantalisingly: “Oh, there is one, of course, but you’ll never know
it.”
“Never know it?” Boyne pulled her up. “But what in the world constitutes a
ghost except the fact of its being known for one?”
“I can’t say. But that’s the story.”
“That there’s a ghost, but that nobody knows it’s a ghost?”
“Well—not till afterward, at any rate.”
“Till afterward?”
“Not till long long afterward.”
“But if it’s once been identified as an unearthly visitant, why hasn’t its
z
signalement been handed down in the family? How has it managed to
preserve its incognito?”
Alida could only shake her head. “Don’t ask me. But it has.”
“And then suddenly—” Mary spoke up as if from cavernous depths of
divination—“suddenly, long afterward, one says to one’s self ‘That was it?”’
She was startled at the sepulchral sound with which her question fell on the
banter of the other two, and she saw the shadow of the same surprise flit
across Alida’s pupils. “I suppose so. One just has to wait.”
“Oh, hang waiting!” Ned broke in. “Life’s too short for a ghost who can
only be enjoyed in retrospect. Can’t we do better than that, Mary?”
But it turned out that in the event they were not destined to, for within three
months of their conversation with Mrs. Stair they were settled at Lyng, and
the life they had yearned for, to the point of planning it in advance in all its
daily details, had actually begun for them.
It was to sit, in the thick December dusk, by just such a wide-hooded
fireplace, under just such black oak rafters, with the sense that beyond the
aa ab
mullioned panes the downs were darkened to a deeper solitude: it was for
the ultimate indulgence of such sensations that Mary Boyne, abruptly exiled

from New York by her husband’s business, had endured for nearly fourteen
3
years the soul-deadening ugliness of a Middle Western town, and that Boyne
had ground on doggedly at his engineering till, with a suddenness that still
made her blink, the prodigious windfall of the Blue Star Mine had put them at
a stroke in possession of life and the leisure to taste it. They had never for a
moment meant their new state to be one of idleness; but they meant to give
themselves only to harmonious activities. She had her vision of painting and
gardening (against a background of grey walls), he dreamed of the production
of his long-planned book on the “Economic Basis of Culture”; and with such
absorbing work ahead no existence could be too sequestered: they could not
get far enough from the world, or plunge deep enough into the past.
Dorsetshire had attracted them from the first by an air of remoteness out of
all proportion to its geographical position. But to the Boynes it was one of the
ever-recurring wonders of the whole incredibly compressed island—a nest of
counties, as they put it—that for the production of its effects so little of a
given quality went so far: that so few miles made a distance, and so short a
distance a difference.
“It’s that,” Ned had once enthusiastically explained, “that gives such depth
to their effects, such relief to their contrasts. They’ve been able to lay the
butter so thick on every delicious mouthful.”
The butter had certainly been laid on thick at Lyng: the old house hidden
under a shoulder of the downs had almost all the finer marks of commerce
with a protracted past. The mere fact that it was neither large nor exceptional
made it, to the Boynes, abound the more completely in its special charm—the
charm of having been for centuries a deep dim reservoir of life. The life had
probably not been of the most vivid order: for long periods, no doubt, it had
fallen as noiselessly into the past as the quiet drizzle of autumn fell, hour after
hour, into the fish-pond between the yews; but these back-waters of existence
sometimes breed, in their sluggish depths, strange acuities of emotion, and
Mary Boyne had felt from the first the mysterious stir of intenser memories.
The feeling had never been stronger than on this particular afternoon when,
waiting in the library for the lamps to come, she rose from her seat and stood
4
among the shadows of the hearth. Her husband had gone off, after luncheon,
for one of his long tramps on the downs. She had noticed of late that he
preferred to go alone; and, in the tried security of their personal relations, had
been driven to conclude that his book was bothering him, and that he needed
the afternoons to turn over in solitude the problems left from the morning’s
work. Certainly the book was not going as smoothly as she had thought it

would, and there were lines of perplexity between his eyes such as had never
been there in his engineering days. He had often, then, looked fagged to the
verge of illness, but the native demon of “worry” had never branded his brow.
Yet the few pages he had so far read to her—the introduction, and a summary
of the opening chapter—showed a firm hold on his subject, and an increasing
confidence in his powers.
The fact threw her into deeper perplexity, since, now that he had done with
“business” and its disturbing contingencies, the one other possible source of
anxiety was eliminated. Unless it were his health, then? But physically he had
gained since they had come to Dorsetshire, grown robuster, ruddier and
fresher-eyed. It was only within the last week that she had felt in him the
undefinable change which made her restless in his absence, and as tongue-tied
in his presence as though it were she who had a secret to keep from him!
The thought that there was a secret somewhere between them struck her
with a sudden rap of wonder, and she looked about her down the long room.
“Can it be the house?” she mused.
The room itself might have been full of secrets. They seemed to be piling
themselves up, as evening fell, like the layers and layers of velvet shadow
dropping from the low ceiling, the rows of books, the smoke-blurred sculpture
of the hearth.
“Why, of course—the house is haunted!” she reflected.
The ghost—Alida’s imperceptible ghost—after figuring largely in the banter
of their first month or two at Lyng, had been gradually left aside as too
ineffectual for imaginative use. Mary had, indeed, as became the tenant of a
haunted house, made the customary inquiries among her rural neighbours,
but, beyond a vague “They dü say so, Ma‘am,” the villagers had nothing to
impart. The elusive spectre had apparently never had sufficient identity for a
legend to crystallise about it, and after a time the Boynes had set the matter
down to their profit-and-loss account, agreeing that Lyng was one of the few
houses good enough in itself to dispense with supernatural enhancements.
“And I suppose, poor ineffectual demon, that’s why it beats its beautiful
wings in vain in the void,” Mary had laughingly concluded.
“Or, rather,” Ned answered in the same strain, “why, amid so much that’s
ghostly, it can never affirm its separate existence as the ghost.” And thereupon
their invisible housemate had finally dropped out of their references, which
were numerous enough to make them soon unaware of the loss.
Now, as she stood on the hearth, the subject of their earlier curiosity revived

in her with a new sense of its meaning—a sense gradually acquired through
daily contact with the scene of the lurking mystery. It was the house itself, of
course, that possessed the ghost-seeing faculty, that communed visually but
secretly with its own past; if one could only get into close enough communion
with the house, one might surprise its secret, and acquire the ghost-sight on
one’s own account. Perhaps, in his long hours in this very room, where she
never trespassed till the afternoon, her husband had acquired it already, and
was silently carrying about the weight of whatever it had revealed to him.
Mary was too well versed in the code of the spectral world not to know that
one could not talk about the ghosts one saw: to do so was almost as great a
breach of taste as to name a lady in a club. But this explanation did not really
satisfy her. “What, after all, except for the fun of the shudder,” she reflected,
“would he really care for any of their old ghosts?” And thence she was
thrown back once more on the fundamental dilemma: the fact that one’s
greater or less susceptibility to spectral influences had no particular bearing
on the case, since, when one did see a ghost at Lyng, one did not know it.
“Not till long afterward,” Alida Stair had said. Well, supposing Ned had
seen one when they first came, and had known only within the last week what
had happened to him? More and more under the spell of the hour, she threw
back her thoughts to the early days of their tenancy, but at first only to recall a
lively confusion of unpacking, settling, arranging of books, and calling to
each other from remote corners of the house as, treasure after treasure, it
revealed itself to them. It was in this particular connection that she presently
recalled a certain soft afternoon of the previous October, when, passing from
the first rapturous flurry of exploration to a detailed inspection of the old
house, she had pressed (like a novel heroine) a panel that opened on a flight
of corkscrew stairs leading to a flat ledge of the roof—the roof which, from
below, seemed to slope away on all sides too abruptly for any but practised
feet to scale.
ac
The view from this hidden coign was enchanting, and she had flown
down to snatch Ned from his papers and give him the freedom of her
discovery. She remembered still how, standing at her side, he had passed his
arm about her while their gaze flew to the long tossed horizon-line of the
downs, and then dropped contentedly back to trace the arabesque of yew
hedges about the fish-pond, and the shadow of the cedar on the lawn.
“And now the other way,” he had said, turning her about within his arm; and
closely pressed to him, she had absorbed, like some long satisfying draught,
the picture of the grey-walled court, the squat lions on the gates, and the lime-
avenue reaching up to the highroad under the downs.

It was just then, while they gazed and held each other, that she had felt his
arm relax, and heard a sharp “Hullo!” that made her turn to glance at him.
Distinctly, yes, she now recalled that she had seen, as she glanced, a shadow
of anxiety, of perplexity, rather, fall across his face; and, following his eyes,
had beheld the figure of a man—a man in loose greyish clothes, as it appeared
to her—who was sauntering down the lime-avenue to the court with the
doubtful gait of a stranger who seeks his way. Her short-sighted eyes had
given her but a blurred impression of slightness and greyishness, with
something foreign, or at least unlocal, in the cut of the figure or its dress; but
her husband had apparently seen more—seen enough to make him push past
her with a hasty “Wait!” and dash down the stairs without pausing to give her
a hand.
A slight tendency to dizziness obliged her, after a provisional clutch at the
chimney against which they had been leaning, to follow him first more
cautiously; and when she had reached the landing she paused again, for a less
definite reason, leaning over the banister to strain her eyes through the silence
of the brown sun-flecked depths. She lingered there till, somewhere in those
depths, she heard the closing of a door; then, mechanically impelled, she went
down the shallow flights of steps till she reached the lower hall.
The front door stood open on the sunlight of the court, and hall and court
were empty. The library door was open, too, and after listening in vain for any
sound of voices within, she crossed the threshold, and found her husband
alone, vaguely fingering the papers on his desk.
He looked up, as if surprised at her entrance, but the shadow of anxiety had
passed from his face, leaving it even, as she fancied, a little brighter and
clearer than usual.
“What was it? Who was it?” she asked.
“Who?” he repeated, with the surprise still all on his side.
“The man we saw coming toward the house.”
He seemed to reflect. “The man? Why, I thought I saw Peters; I dashed after
him to say a word about the stable drains, but he had disappeared before I
could get down.”
“Disappeared? But he seemed to be walking so slowly when we saw him.”
Boyne shrugged his shoulders. “So I thought; but he must have got up steam
in the interval. What do you say to our trying a scramble up Meldon Steep
before sunset?”
That was all. At the time the occurrence had been less than nothing, had,

indeed, been immediately obliterated by the magic of their first vision from
Meldon Steep, a height which they had dreamed of climbing ever since they
had first seen its bare spine rising above the roof of Lyng. Doubtless it was
the mere fact of the other incident’s having occurred on the very day of their
ascent to Meldon that had kept it stored away in the fold of memory from
which it now emerged; for in itself it had no mark of the portentous. At the
moment there could have been nothing more natural than that Ned should
dash himself from the roof in the pursuit of dilatory trades-men. It was the
period when they were always on the watch for one or the other of the
specialists employed about the place; always lying in wait for them, and
rushing out at them with questions, reproaches or reminders. And certainly in
the distance the grey figure had looked like Peters.
Yet now, as she reviewed the scene, she felt her husband’s explanation of it
to have been invalidated by the look of anxiety on his face. Why had the
familiar appearance of Peters made him anxious? Why, above all, if it was of
such prime necessity to confer with him on the subject of the stable drains,
had the failure to find him produced such a look of relief? Mary could not say
that any one of these questions had occurred to her at the time, yet, from the
promptness with which they now marshalled themselves at her summons, she
had a sense that they must all along have been there, waiting their hour.

II.
WEARY WITH HER THOUGHTS, she moved to the window. The library
was now quite dark, and she was surprised to see how much faint light the
outer world still held.
As she peered out into it across the court, a figure shaped itself far down the
perspective of bare limes: it looked a mere blot of deeper grey in the greyness,
and for an instant, as it moved toward her, her heart thumped to the thought
“It’s the ghost!”
She had time, in that long instant, to feel suddenly that the man of whom,
two months earlier, she had had a distant vision from the roof, was now, at his
predestined hour, about to reveal himself as not having been Peters; and her
spirit sank under the impending fear of the disclosure. But almost with the
next tick of the clock the figure, gaining substance and character, showed
itself even to her weak sight as her husband’s; and she turned to meet him, as
he entered, with the confession of her folly.
“It’s really too absurd,” she laughed out, “but I never can remember!”
“Remember what?” Boyne questioned as they drew together.
“That when one sees the Lyng ghost one never knows it.”
Her hand was on his sleeve, and he kept it there, but with no response in his
gesture or in the lines of his preoccupied face.
“Did you think you’d seen it?” he asked, after an appreciable interval.
“Why, I actually took you for it, my dear, in my mad determination to spot
it!”
“Me—just now?” His arm dropped away, and he turned from her with a
faint echo of her laugh. “Really, dearest, you’d better give it up, if that’s the
best you can do.”
“Oh, yes, I give it up. Have you?” she asked, turning round on him
abruptly.
The parlour-maid had entered with letters and a lamp, and the light struck
up into Boyne’s face as he bent above the tray she presented.
“Have you?” Mary perversely insisted, when the servant had disappeared
on her errand of illumination.
“Have I what?” he rejoined absently, the light bringing out the sharp stamp

of worry between his brows as he turned over the letters.
“Given up trying to see the ghost.” Her heart beat a little at the experiment
she was making.
Her husband, laying his letters aside, moved away into the shadow of the
hearth.
“I never tried,” he said, tearing open the wrapper of a newspaper.
“Well, of course,” Mary persisted, “the exasperating thing is that there’s no
use trying, since one can’t be sure till so long afterward.”
He was unfolding the paper as if he had hardly heard her; but after a pause,
during which the sheets rustled spasmodically between his hands, he looked
up to ask, “Have you any idea how long?”
Mary had sunk into a low chair beside the fireplace. From her seat she
glanced over, startled, at her husband’s profile, which was projected against
the circle of lamplight.
“No; none. Have you?” she retorted, repeating her former phrase with an
added stress of intention.
Boyne crumpled the paper into a bunch, and then, inconse quently, turned
back with it toward the lamp.
“Lord, no! I only meant,” he explained, with a faint tinge of impatience, “is
there any legend, any tradition, as to that?”
“Not that I know of,” she answered; but the impulse to add “What makes
you ask?” was checked by the reappearance of the parlour-maid, with tea and
a second lamp.
With the dispersal of shadows, and the repetition of the daily domestic
office, Mary Boyne felt herself less oppressed by that sense of something
mutely imminent which had darkened her afternoon. For a few moments she
gave herself to the details of her task, and when she looked up from it she was
struck to the point of bewilderment by the change in her husband’s face. He
had seated himself near the farther lamp, and was absorbed in the perusal of
his letters; but was it something he had found in them, or merely the shifting
of her own point of view, that had restored his features to their normal aspect?
The longer she looked the more definitely the change affirmed itself. The
lines of tension had vanished, and such traces of fatigue as lingered were of
the kind easily attributable to steady mental effort. He glanced up, as if drawn
by her gaze, and met her eyes with a smile.
“I’m dying for my tea, you know; and here’s a letter for you,” he said.

She took the letter he held out in exchange for the cup she proffered him,
and, returning to her seat, broke the seal with the languid gesture of the reader
whose interests are all enclosed in the circle of one cherished presence.
Her next conscious motion was that of starting to her feet, the letter falling
to them as she rose, while she held out to her husband a newspaper clipping.
“Ned! What’s this? What does it mean?”
He had risen at the same instant, almost as if hearing her cry before she
uttered it; and for a perceptible space of time he and she studied each other,
like adversaries watching for an advantage, across the space between her
chair and his desk.
“What’s what? You fairly made me jump!” Boyne said at length, moving
toward her with a sudden half-exasperated laugh. The shadow of
apprehension was on his face again, not now a look of fixed foreboding, but a
shifting vigilance of lips and eyes that gave her the sense of his feeling
himself invisibly surrounded.
Her hand shook so that she could hardly give him the clipping.
“This article—from the Waukesha Sentinel—that a man named Elwell has
brought suit against you—that there was something wrong about the Blue Star
Mine. I can’t understand more than half.”
They continued to face each other as she spoke, and to her astonishment she
saw that her words had the almost immediate effect of dissipating the strained
watchfulness of his look.
“Oh, that!” He glanced down the printed slip, and then folded it with the
gesture of one who handles something harmless and familiar. “What’s the
matter with you this afternoon, Mary? I thought you’d got bad news.”
She stood before him with her undefinable terror subsiding slowly under the
reassurance of his tone.
“You knew about this, then—its all right?”
“Certainly I knew about it; and it’s all right.”
“But what is it? I don’t understand. What does this man accuse you of?”
“Pretty nearly every crime in the calendar.” Boyne had tossed the clipping
down, and thrown himself into an arm-chair near the fire. “Do you want to
hear the story? It’s not particularly interesting—just a squabble over interests
in the Blue Star.”
“But who is this Elwell? I don’t know the name.”

“Oh, he’s a fellow I put into it—gave him a hand up. I told you all about
him at the time.”
“I daresay. I must have forgotten.” Vainly she strained back among her
memories. “But if you helped him, why does he make this return?”
“Probably some shyster lawyer got hold of him and talked him over. It’s all
rather technical and complicated. I thought that kind of thing bored you.”
His wife felt a sting of compunction. Theoretically, she deprecated the
American wife’s detachment from her husband’s professional interests, but in
practice she had always found it difficult to fix her attention on Boyne’s
report of the transactions in which his varied interests involved him. Besides,
she had felt during their years of exile, that, in a community where the
amenities of living could be obtained only at the cost of efforts as arduous as
her husband’s professional labours, such brief leisure as he and she could
command should be used as an escape from immediate preoccupations, a
flight to the life they always dreamed of living. Once or twice, now that this
new life had actually drawn its magic circle about them, she had asked herself
if she had done right; but hitherto such conjectures had been no more than the
retrospective excursions of an active fancy. Now, for the first time, it startled
her a little to find how little she knew of the material foundation on which her
happiness was built.
She glanced at her husband, and was again reassured by the composure of
his face; yet she felt the need of more definite grounds for her reassurance.
“But doesn’t this suit worry you? Why have you never spoken to me about
it?”
He answered both questions at once. “I didn’t speak of it at first because it
did worry me—annoyed me, rather. But it’s all ancient history now. Your
correspondent must have got hold of a back number of the Sentinel.”
She felt a quick thrill of relief. “You mean it’s over? He’s lost his case?”
There was a just perceptible delay in Boyne’s reply. “The suit’s been
withdrawn—that’s all.”
But she persisted, as if to exonerate herself from the inward charge of being
too easily put off “Withdrawn it because he saw he had no chance?”
“Oh, he had no chance,” Boyne answered.
She was still struggling with a dimly felt perplexity at the back of her
thoughts.
“How long ago was it withdrawn?”

He paused, as if with a slight return of his former uncertainty. “I’ve just had
the news now; but I’ve been expecting it.”
“Just now—in one of your letters?”
“Yes; in one of my letters.”
She made no answer, and was aware only, after a short interval of waiting,
that he had risen, and, strolling across the room, had placed himself on the
sofa at her side. She felt him, as he did so, pass an arm about her, she felt his
hand seek hers and clasp it, and turning slowly, drawn by the warmth of his
cheek, she met his smiling eyes.
“It’s all right—it’s all right?” she questioned, through the flood of her
dissolving doubts; and “I give you my word it was never righter!” he laughed
back at her, holding her close.

III.
ONE OF THE STRANGEST things she was afterward to recall out of all the
next day’s strangeness was the sudden and complete recovery of her sense of
security.
It was in the air when she woke in her low-ceiled, dusky room; it went with
her down-stairs to the breakfast-table, flashed out at her from the fire, and
reduplicated itself from the flanks of the urn and the sturdy flutings of the
ad
Georgian teapot. It was as if, in some roundabout way, all her diffused fears
of the previous day, with their moment of sharp concentration about the
newspaper article—as if this dim questioning of the future, and startled return
upon the past, had between them liquidated the arrears of some haunting
moral obligation. If she had indeed been careless of her husband’s affairs, it
was, her new state seemed to prove, because her faith in him instinctively
justified such carelessness; and his right to her faith had now affirmed itself in
the very face of menace and suspicion. She had never seen him more
untroubled, more naturally and unconsciously himself, than after the cross-
examination to which she had subjected him: it was almost as if he had been
aware of her doubts, and had wanted the air cleared as much as she did.
It was as clear, thank Heaven! as the bright outer light that surprised her
almost with a touch of summer when she issued from the house for her daily
round of the gardens. She had left Boyne at his desk, indulging herself, as she
passed the library door, by a last peep at his quiet face, where he bent, pipe in
mouth, above his papers; and now she had her own morning’s task to perform.
The task involved, on such charmed winter days, almost as much happy
loitering about the different quarters of her demesne as if spring were already
at work there. There were such endless possibilities still before her, such
opportunities to bring out the latent graces of the old place, without a single
irreverent touch of alteration, that the winter was all too short to plan what
spring and autumn executed. And her recovered sense of safety gave, on this
particular morning, a peculiar zest to her progress through the sweet still
ae
place. She went first to the kitchen-garden, where the espaliered pear-trees
drew complicated patterns on the walls, and pigeons were fluttering and
af
preening about the silvery-slated roof of their cot. There was something
wrong about the piping of the hot-house, and she was expecting an authority
ag
from Dorchester, who was to drive out between trains and make a diagnosis
of the boiler. But when she dipped into the damp heat of the green-houses,

among the spiced scents and waxy pinks and reds of old-fashioned exotics—
even the flora of Lyng was in the note!—she learned that the great man had
not arrived, and, the day being too rare to waste in an artificial atmosphere,
she came out again and paced along the springy turf of the bowling-green to
the gardens behind the house. At their farther end rose a grass terrace, looking
across the fish-pond and yew hedges to the long house-front with its twisted
chimney-stacks and blue roof angles all drenched in the pale gold moisture of
the air.
Seen thus, across the level tracery of the gardens, it sent her, from open
windows and hospitably smoking chimneys, the look of some warm human
presence, of a mind slowly ripened on a sunny wall of experience. She had
never before had such a sense of her intimacy with it, such a conviction that
its secrets were all beneficent, kept, as they said to children, “for one’s good,”
such a trust in its power to gather up her life and Ned’s into the harmonious
pattern of the long long story it sat there weaving in the sun.
She heard steps behind her, and turned, expecting to see the gardener
accompanied by the engineer from Dorchester. But only one figure was in
sight, that of a youngish slightly built man, who, for reasons she could not on
the spot have given, did not remotely resemble her notion of an authority on
hot-house boilers. The new-comer, on seeing her, lifted his hat, and paused
with the air of a gentleman—perhaps a traveller—who wishes to make it
known that his intrusion is involuntary. Lyng occasionally attracted the more
cultivated traveller, and Mary half-expected to see the stranger dissemble a
camera, or justify his presence by producing it. But he made no gesture of any
sort, and after a moment she asked, in a tone responding to the courteous
hesitation of his attitude: “Is there any one you wish to see?”
“I came to see Mr. Boyne,” he answered. His intonation, rather than his
accent, was faintly American, and Mary, at the note, looked at him more
closely. The brim of his soft felt hat cast a shade on his face, which, thus
obscured, wore to her short-sighted gaze a look of seriousness, as of a person
arriving “on business,” and civilly but firmly aware of his rights.
Past experience had made her equally sensible to such claims; but she was
jealous of her husband’s morning hours, and doubtful of his having given any
one the right to intrude on them.
“Have you an appointment with my husband?” she asked.
The visitor hesitated, as if unprepared for the question.
“I think he expects me,” he replied.

It was Mary’s turn to hesitate. “You see this is his time for work: he never
sees any one in the morning.”
He looked at her a moment without answering; then, as if accepting her
decision, he began to move away. As he turned, Mary saw him pause and
glance up at the peaceful house-front. Something in his air suggested
weariness and disappointment, the dejection of the traveller who has come
from far off and whose hours are limited by the time-table. It occurred to her
that if this were the case her refusal might have made his errand vain, and a
sense of compunction caused her to hasten after him.
“May I ask if you have come a long way?”
He gave her the same grave look. “Yes—I have come a long way.”
“Then, if you’ll go to the house, no doubt my husband will see you now.
You’ll find him in the library.”
She did not know why she had added the last phrase, except from a vague
impulse to atone for her previous inhospitality. The visitor seemed about to
express his thanks, but her attention was distracted by the approach of the
gardener with a companion who bore all the marks of being the expert from
Dorchester.
“This way,” she said, waving the stranger to the house; and an instant later
she had forgotten him in the absorption of her meeting with the boiler-maker.
The encounter led to such far-reaching results that the engineer ended by
finding it expedient to ignore his train, and Mary was beguiled into spending
the remainder of the morning in absorbed confabulation among the flower-
pots. When the colloquy ended, she was surprised to find that it was nearly
luncheon-time, and she half expected, as she hurried back to the house, to see
her husband coming out to meet her. But she found no one in the court but an
under-gardener raking the gravel, and the hall, when she entered it, was so
silent that she guessed Boyne to be still at work.
Not wishing to disturb him, she turned into the drawing-room, and there, at
her writing-table, lost herself in renewed calculations of the outlay to which
the morning’s conference had pledged her. The fact that she could permit
herself such follies had not yet lost its novelty; and somehow, in contrast to
the vague fears of the previous days, it now seemed an element of her
recovered security, of the sense that, as Ned had said, things in general had
never been “righter.”
She was still luxuriating in a lavish play of figures when the parlour-maid,
from the threshold, roused her with an enquiry as to the expediency of serving

luncheon. It was one of their jokes that Trimmle announced luncheon as if she
were divulging a state secret, and Mary, intent upon her papers, merely
murmured an absent-minded assent.
She felt Trimmle wavering doubtfully on the threshold, as if in rebuke of
such unconsidered assent; then her retreating steps sounded down the passage,
and Mary, pushing away her papers, crossed the hall and went to the library
door. It was still closed, and she wavered in her turn, disliking to disturb her
husband, yet anxious that he should not exceed his usual measure of work. As
she stood there, balancing her impulses, Trimmle returned with the
announcement of luncheon, and Mary, thus impelled, opened the library door.
Boyne was not at his desk, and she peered about her, expecting to discover
him before the book-shelves, somewhere down the length of the room; but her
call brought no response, and gradually it became clear to her that he was not
there.
She turned back to the parlour-maid.
“Mr. Boyne must be up-stairs. Please tell him that luncheon is ready.”
Trimmle appeared to hesitate between the obvious duty of obedience and an
equally obvious conviction of the foolishness of the injunction laid on her.
The struggle resulted in her saying: “If you please, Madam, Mr. Boyne’s not
up-stairs.”
“Not in his room? Are you sure?”
“I’m sure, Madam.”
Mary consulted the clock. “Where is he, then?”
“He’s gone out,” Trimmle announced, with the superior air of one who has
respectfully waited for the question that a well-ordered mind would have put
first.
Mary’s conjecture had been right, then. Boyne must have gone to the
gardens to meet her, and since she had missed him, it was clear that he had
taken the shorter way by the south door, instead of going round to the court.
She crossed the hall to the French window opening directly on the yew
garden, but the parlour-maid, after another moment of inner conflict, decided
to bring out: “Please, Madam, Mr. Boyne didn’t go that way.”
Mary turned back. “Where did he go? And when?”
“He went out of the front door, up the drive, Madam.” It was a matter of
principle with Trimmle never to answer more than one question at a time.
“Up the drive? At this hour?” Mary went to the door herself, and glanced

across the court through the tunnel of bare limes. But its perspective was as
empty as when she had scanned it on entering.
“Did Mr. Boyne leave no message?”
Trimmle seemed to surrender herself to a last struggle with the forces of
chaos.
“No, Madam. He just went out with the gentleman.”
“The gentleman? What gentleman?” Mary wheeled about, as if to front this
new factor.
“The gentleman who called, Madam,” said Trimmle resignedly.
“When did a gentleman call? Do explain yourself, Trimmle!”
Only the fact that Mary was very hungry, and that she wanted to consult her
husband about the green-houses, would have caused her to lay so unusual an
injunction on her attendant; and even now she was detached enough to note in
Trimmle’s eye the dawning defiance of the respectful subordinate who has
been pressed too hard.
“I couldn’t exactly say the hour, Madam, because I didn’t let the gentleman
in,” she replied, with an air of discreetly ignoring the irregularity of her
mistress’s course.
“You didn’t let him in?”
“No, Madam. When the bell rang I was dressing, and Agnes—”
“Go and ask Agnes, then,” said Mary.
Trimmle still wore her look of patient magnanimity. “Agnes would not
know, Madam, for she had unfortunately burnt her hand in trimming the wick
of the new lamp from town”—Trimmle, as Mary was aware, had always been
opposed to the new lamp—“and so Mrs. Dockett sent the kitchen-maid
instead.”
Mary looked again at the clock. “It’s after two! Go and ask the kitchen-maid
if Mr. Boyne left any word.”
She went into luncheon without waiting, and Trimmle presently brought her
there the kitchen-maid’s statement that the gentleman had called about eleven
o‘clock, and that Mr. Boyne had gone out with him without leaving any
message. The kitchen-maid did not even know the caller’s name, for he had
written it on a slip of paper, which he had folded and handed to her, with the
injunction to deliver it at once to Mr. Boyne.
Mary finished her luncheon, still wondering, and when it was over, and

Trimmle had brought the coffee to the drawing-room, her wonder had
deepened to a first faint tinge of disquietude. It was unlike Boyne to absent
himself without explanation at so unwonted an hour, and the difficulty of
identifying the visitor whose summons he had apparently obeyed made his
disappearance the more unaccountable. Mary Boyne’s experience as the wife
of a busy engineer, subject to sudden calls and compelled to keep irregular
hours, had trained her to the philosophic acceptance of surprises; but since
ah
Boyne’s withdrawal from business he had adopted a Benedictine regularity
of life. As if to make up for the dispersed and agitated years, with their
“stand-up” lunches, and dinners rattled down to the joltings of the dining-cars,
he cultivated the last refinements of punctuality and monotony, discouraging
his wife’s fancy for the unexpected, and declaring that to a delicate taste there
were infinite gradations of pleasure in the recurrences of habit.
Still, since no life can completely defend itself from the unforeseen, it was
evident that all Boyne’s precautions would sooner or later prove unavailable,
and Mary concluded that he had cut short a tiresome visit by walking with his
caller to the station, or at least accompanying him for part of the way.
This conclusion relieved her from farther preoccupation, and she went out
herself to take up her conference with the gardener. Thence she walked to the
village post-office, a mile or so away; and when she turned toward home the
early twilight was setting in.
She had taken a foot-path across the downs, and as Boyne, meanwhile, had
probably returned from the station by the highroad, there was little likelihood
of their meeting. She felt sure, however, of his having reached the house
before her; so sure that, when she entered it herself, without even pausing to
inquire of Trimmle, she made directly for the library. But the library was still
empty, and with an unwonted exactness of visual memory she observed that
the papers on her husband’s desk lay precisely as they had lain when she had
gone in to call him to luncheon.
Then of a sudden she was seized by a vague dread of the unknown. She had
closed the door behind her on entering, and as she stood alone in the long
silent room, her dread seemed to take shape and sound, to be there breathing
and lurking among the shadows. Her short-sighted eyes strained through
them, half-discerning an actual presence, something aloof, that watched and
knew; and in the recoil from that intangible presence she threw herself on the
bell-rope and gave it a sharp pull.
The sharp summons brought Trimmle in precipitately with a lamp, and
Mary breathed again at this sobering reappearance of the usual.

“You may bring tea if Mr. Boyne is in,” she said, to justify her ring.
“Very well, Madam. But Mr. Boyne is not in,” said Trimmle, putting down
the lamp.
“Not in? You mean he’s come back and gone out again?”
“No, Madam. He’s never been back.”
The dread stirred again, and Mary knew that now it had her fast.
“Not since he went out with—the gentleman?”
“Not since he went out with the gentleman.”
“But who was the gentleman?” Mary insisted, with the shrill note of some
one trying to be heard through a confusion of noises.
“That I couldn’t say, Madam.” Trimmle, standing there by the lamp, seemed
suddenly to grow less round and rosy, as though eclipsed by the same
creeping shade of apprehension.
“But the kitchen-maid knows—wasn’t it the kitchen-maid who let him in?”
“She doesn’t know either, Madam, for he wrote his name on a folded
paper.”
Mary, through her agitation, was aware that they were both designating the
unknown visitor by a vague pronoun, instead of the conventional formula
which, till then, had kept their allusions within the bounds of conformity. And
at the same moment her mind caught at the suggestion of the folded paper.
“But he must have a name! Where’s the paper?”
She moved to the desk, and began to turn over the documents that littered it.
The first that caught her eye was an unfinished letter in her husband’s hand,
with his pen lying across it, as though dropped there at a sudden summons.
“My dear Parvis”—who was Parvis?—“I have just received your letter
announcing Elwell’s death, and while I suppose there is now no farther risk of
trouble, it might be safer—”
She tossed the sheet aside, and continued her search; but no folded paper
was discoverable among the letters and pages of manuscript which had been
swept together in a heap, as if by a hurried or a startled gesture.
“But the kitchen-maid saw him. Send her here,” she commanded,
wondering at her dulness in not thinking sooner of so simple a solution.
Trimmle vanished in a flash, as if thankful to be out of the room, and when
she reappeared, conducting the agitated underling, Mary had regained her
self-possession, and had her questions ready.

The gentleman was a stranger, yes—that she understood. But what had he
said? And, above all, what had he looked like? The first question was easily
enough answered, for the disconcerting reason that he had said so little—had
merely asked for Mr. Boyne, and, scribbling something on a bit of paper, had
requested that it should at once be carried in to him.
“Then you don’t know what he wrote? You’re not sure it was his name?”
The kitchen-maid was not sure, but supposed it was, since he had written it
in answer to her inquiry as to whom she should announce.
“And when you carried the paper in to Mr. Boyne, what did he say?”
The kitchen-maid did not think that Mr. Boyne had said anything, but she
could not be sure, for just as she had handed him the paper and he was
opening it, she had become aware that the visitor had followed her into the
library, and she had slipped out, leaving the two gentlemen together.
“But then, if you left them in the library, how do you know that they went
out of the house?”
This question plunged the witness into a momentary inarticulateness, from
which she was rescued by Trimmle, who, by means of ingenious
circumlocutions, elicited the statement that before she could cross the hall to
the back passage she had heard the two gentlemen behind her, and had seen
them go out of the front door together.
“Then, if you saw the strange gentleman twice, you must be able to tell me
what he looked like.”
But with this final challenge to her powers of expression it became clear
that the limit of the kitchen-maid’s endurance had been reached. The
obligation of going to the front door to “show in” a visitor was in itself so
subversive of the fundamental order of things that it had thrown her faculties
into hopeless disarray, and she could only stammer out, after various panting
efforts: “His hat, mum, was different-like, as you might say—”
“Different? How different?” Mary flashed out, her own mind, in the same
instant, leaping back to an image left on it that morning, and then lost under
layers of subsequent impressions.
“His hat had a wide brim, you mean? and his face was pale—a youngish
face?” Mary pressed her, with a white-lipped intensity of interrogation. But if
the kitchen-maid found any adequate answer to this challenge, it was swept
away for her listener down the rushing current of her own convictions. The
stranger—the stranger in the garden! Why had Mary not thought of him
before? She needed no one now to tell her that it was he who had called for

her husband and gone away with him. But who was he, and why had Boyne
obeyed him?

IV.
IT LEAPED OUT AT her suddenly, like a grin out of the dark, that they had
often called England so little—“such a confoundedly hard place to get lost
in.”
A confoundedly hard place to get lost in! That had been her husband’s
phrase. And now, with the whole machinery of official investigation sweeping
its flashlights from shore to shore, and across the dividing straits; now, with
Boyne’s name blazing from the walls of every town and village, his portrait
(how that wrung her!) hawked up and down the country like the image of a
hunted criminal; now the little compact populous island, so policed, surveyed
and administered, revealed itself as a Sphinx-like guardian of abysmal
mysteries, staring back into his wife’s anguished eyes as if with the wicked
joy of knowing something they would never know!
In the fortnight since Boyne’s disappearance there had been no word of him,
no trace of his movements. Even the usual misleading reports that raise
expectancy in tortured bosoms had been few and fleeting. No one but the
kitchen-maid had seen Boyne leave the house, and no one else had seen “the
gentleman” who accompanied him. All enquiries in the neighbourhood failed
to elicit the memory of a stranger’s presence that day in the neighbourhood of
Lyng. And no one had met Edward Boyne, either alone or in company, in any
of the neighbouring villages, or on the road across the downs, or at either of
the local railway-stations. The sunny English noon had swallowed him as
ai
completely as if he had gone out into Cimmerian night.
Mary, while every official means of investigation was working at its highest
pressure, had ransacked her husband’s papers for any trace of antecedent
complications, of entanglements or obligations unknown to her, that might
throw a ray into the darkness. But if any such had existed in the background
of Boyne’s life, they had vanished like the slip of paper on which the visitor
had written his name. There remained no possible thread of guidance except
—if it were indeed an exception—the letter which Boyne had apparently been
in the act of writing when he received his mysterious summons. That letter,
read and reread by his wife, and submitted by her to the police, yielded little
enough to feed conjecture.
“I have just heard of Elwell’s death, and while I suppose there is now no
farther risk of trouble, it might be safer—” That was all. The “risk of trouble”
was easily explained by the newspaper clipping which had apprised Mary of

the suit brought against her husband by one of his associates in the Blue Star
enterprise. The only new information conveyed by the letter was the fact of its
showing Boyne, when he wrote it, to be still apprehensive of the results of the
suit, though he had told his wife that it had been withdrawn, and though the
letter itself proved that the plaintiff was dead. It took several days of cabling
to fix the identity of the “Parvis” to whom the fragment was addressed, but
even after these enquiries had shown him to be a Waukesha lawyer, no new
facts concerning the Elwell suit were elicited. He appeared to have had no
direct concern in it, but to have been conversant with the facts merely as an
acquaintance, and possible intermediary; and he declared himself unable to
guess with what object Boyne intended to seek his assistance.
This negative information, sole fruit of the first fortnight’s search, was not
increased by a jot during the slow weeks that followed. Mary knew that the
investigations were still being carried on, but she had a vague sense of their
gradually slackening, as the actual march of time seemed to slacken. It was as
though the days, flying horror-struck from the shrouded image of the one
inscrutable day, gained assurance as the distance lengthened, till at last they
fell back into their normal gait. And so with the human imaginations at work
on the dark event. No doubt it occupied them still, but week by week and hour
by hour it grew less absorbing, took up less space, was slowly but inevitably
crowded out of the foreground of consciousness by the new problems
perpetually bubbling up from the cloudy caldron of human experience.
Even Mary Boyne’s consciousness gradually felt the same lowering of
velocity. It still swayed with the incessant oscillations of conjecture; but they
were slower, more rhythmical in their beat. There were even moments of
weariness when, like the victim of some poison which leaves the brain clear,
but holds the body motionless, she saw herself domesticated with the Horror,
accepting its perpetual presence as one of the fixed conditions of life.
These moments lengthened into hours and days, till she passed into a phase
of stolid acquiescence. She watched the routine of daily life with the incurious
eye of a savage on whom the meaningless processes of civilisation make but
the faintest impression. She had come to regard herself as part of the routine,
a spoke of the wheel, revolving with its motion; she felt almost like the
furniture of the room in which she sat, an insensate object to be dusted and
pushed about with the chairs and tables. And this deepening apathy held her
fast at Lyng, in spite of the entreaties of friends and the usual medical
recommendation of “change.” Her friends supposed that her refusal to move
was inspired by the belief that her husband would one day return to the spot
from which he had vanished, and a beautiful legend grew up about this

imaginary state of waiting. But in reality she had no such belief: the depths of
anguish enclosing her were no longer lighted by flashes of hope. She was sure
that Boyne would never come back, that he had gone out of her sight as
completely as if Death itself had waited that day on the threshold. She had
even renounced, one by one, the various theories as to his disappearance
which had been advanced by the press, the police, and her own agonised
imagination. In sheer lassitude her mind turned from these alternatives of
horror, and sank back into the blank fact that he was gone.
No, she would never know what had become of him—no one would ever
know. But the house knew; the library in which she spent her long lonely
evenings knew. For it was here that the last scene had been enacted, here that
the stranger had come, and spoken the word which had caused Boyne to rise
and follow him. The floor she trod had felt his tread; the books on the shelves
had seen his face; and there were moments when the intense consciousness of
the old dusky walls seemed about to break out into some audible revelation of
their secret. But the revelation never came, and she knew it would never
come. Lyng was not one of the garrulous old houses that betray the secrets
entrusted to them. Its very legend proved that it had always been the mute
accomplice, the incorruptible custodian, of the mysteries it had surprised. And
Mary Boyne, sitting face to face with its silence, felt the futility of seeking to
break it by any human means.

V.
“I DON’T SAY IT wasn’t straight, and yet I don’t say it was straight. It was
business.”
Mary, at the words, lifted her head with a start, and looked intently at the
speaker.
When, half an hour before, a card with “Mr. Parvis” on it had been brought
up to her, she had been immediately aware that the name had been a part of
her consciousness ever since she had read it at the head of Boyne’s unfinished
letter. In the library she had found awaiting her a small sallow man with a
bald head and gold eyeglasses, and it sent a tremor through her to know that
this was the person to whom her husband’s last known thought had been
directed.
Parvis, civilly, but without vain preamble—in the manner of a man who has
his watch in his hand—had set forth the object of his visit. He had “run over”
to England on business, and finding himself in the neighbourhood of
Dorchester, had not wished to leave it without paying his respects to Mrs.
Boyne; and without asking her, if the occasion offered, what she meant to do
about Bob Elwell’s family.
The words touched the spring of some obscure dread in Mary’s bosom. Did
her visitor, after all, know what Boyne had meant by his unfinished phrase?
She asked for an elucidation of his question, and noticed at once that he
seemed surprised at her continued ignorance of the subject. Was it possible
that she really knew as little as she said?
“I know nothing—you must tell me,” she faltered out; and her visitor
thereupon proceeded to unfold his story. It threw, even to her confused
perceptions, and imperfectly initiated vision, a lurid glare on the whole hazy
episode of the Blue Star Mine. Her husband had made his money in that
brilliant speculation at the cost of “getting ahead” of some one less alert to
seize the chance; and the victim of his ingenuity was young Robert Elwell,
who had “put him on” to the Blue Star scheme.
Parvis, at Mary’s first cry, had thrown her a sobering glance through his
impartial glasses.
“Bob Elwell wasn’t smart enough, that’s all; if he had been, he might have
turned round and served Boyne the same way. It’s the kind of thing that
happens every day in business. I guess it’s what the scientists call the survival

5
of the fittest —see?” said Mr. Parvis, evidently pleased with the aptness of
his analogy.
Mary felt a physical shrinking from the next question she tried to frame: it
was as though the words on her lips had a taste that nauseated her.
“But then—you accuse my husband of doing something dishonourable?”
Mr. Parvis surveyed the question dispassionately. “Oh, no, I don’t. I don’t
even say it wasn’t straight.” He glanced up and down the long lines of books,
as if one of them might have supplied him with the definition he sought. “I
don’t say it wasn’t straight, and yet I don’t say it was straight. It was
business.” After all, no definition in his category could be more
comprehensive than that.
Mary sat staring at him with a look of terror. He seemed to her like the
indifferent emissary of some evil power.
“But Mr. Elwell’s lawyers apparently did not take your view, since I
suppose the suit was withdrawn by their advice.”
“Oh, yes; they knew he hadn’t a leg to stand on, technically. It was when
they advised him to withdraw the suit that he got desperate. You see, he’d
borrowed most of the money he lost in the Blue Star, and he was up a tree.
That’s why he shot himself when they told him he had no show.”
The horror was sweeping over Mary in great deafening waves.
“He shot himself? He killed himself because of that?”
“Well, he didn’t kill himself, exactly. He dragged on two months before he
died.” Parvis emitted the statement as unemotionally as a gramophone
grinding out its “record.”
“You mean that he tried to kill himself, and failed? And tried again?”
“Oh, he didn’t have to try again,” said Parvis grimly.
They sat opposite each other in silence, he swinging his eyeglasses
thoughtfully about his finger, she, motionless, her arms stretched along her
knees in an attitude of rigid tension.
“But if you knew all this,” she began at length, hardly able to force her
voice above a whisper, “how is it that when I wrote you at the time of my
husband’s disappearance you said you didn’t understand his letter?”
Parvis received this without perceptible embarrassment: “Why, I didn’t
understand it—strictly speaking. And it wasn’t the time to talk about it, if I
had. The Elwell business was settled when the suit was withdrawn. Nothing I

could have told you would have helped you to find your husband.”
Mary continued to scrutinise him. “Then why are you telling me now?”
Still Parvis did not hesitate. “Well, to begin with, I supposed you knew
more than you appear to—I mean about the circumstances of Elwell’s death.
And then people are talking of it now; the whole matter’s been raked up
again. And I thought if you didn’t know you ought to.”
She remained silent, and he continued: “You see, it’s only come out lately
what a bad state Elwell’s affairs were in. His wife’s a proud woman, and she
fought on as long as she could, going out to work, and taking sewing at home
when she got too sick—something with the heart, I believe. But she had his
mother to look after, and the children, and she broke down under it, and
finally had to ask for help. That called attention to the case, and the papers
took it up, and a subscription was started. Everybody out there liked Bob
Elwell, and most of the prominent names in the place are down on the list,
and people began to wonder why—”
Parvis broke off to fumble in an inner pocket. “Here,” he continued, “here’s
an account of the whole thing from the Sentinel—a little sensational, of
course. But I guess you’d better look it over.”
He held out a newspaper to Mary, who unfolded it slowly, remembering, as
she did so, the evening when, in that same room, the perusal of a clipping
from the Sentinel had first shaken the depths of her security.
As she opened the paper, her eyes, shrinking from the glaring headlines,
“Widow of Boyne’s Victim Forced to Appeal for Aid,” ran down the column
of text to two portraits inserted in it. The first was her husband‘s, taken from a
photograph made the year they had come to England. It was the picture of
him that she liked best, the one that stood on the writing-table up-stairs in her
bedroom. As the eyes in the photograph met hers, she felt it would be
impossible to read what was said of him, and closed her lids with the
sharpness of the pain.
“I thought if you felt disposed to put your name down—” she heard Parvis
continue.
She opened her eyes with an effort, and they fell on the other portrait. It was
that of a youngish man, slightly built, with features somewhat blurred by the
shadow of a projecting hat-brim. Where had she seen that outline before? She
stared at it confusedly, her heart hammering in her ears. Then she gave a cry.
“This is the man—the man who came for my husband!”
She heard Parvis start to his feet, and was dimly aware that she had slipped

backward into the corner of the sofa, and that he was bending above her in
alarm. She straightened herself, and reached out for the paper, which she had
dropped.
“It’s the man! I should know him anywhere!” she persisted in a voice that
sounded to her own ears like a scream.
Parvis’s answer seemed to come to her from far off, down endless fog-
muffled windings.
“Mrs. Boyne, you’re not very well. Shall I call somebody? Shall I get a
glass of water?”
“No, no, no!” She threw herself toward him, her hand frantically clutching
the newspaper. “I tell you, it’s the man! I know him! He spoke to me in the
garden!”
Parvis took the journal from her, directing his glasses to the portrait. “It
can’t be, Mrs. Boyne. It’s Robert Elwell.”
“Robert Elwell?” Her white stare seemed to travel into space. “Then it was
Robert Elwell who came for him.”
“Came for Boyne? The day he went away from here?” Parvis’s voice
dropped as hers rose. He bent over, laying a fraternal hand on her, as if to
coax her gently back into her seat. “Why, Elwell was dead! Don’t you
remember?”
Mary sat with her eyes fixed on the picture, unconscious of what he was
saying.
“Don’t you remember Boyne’s unfinished letter to me—the one you found
on his desk that day? It was written just after he’d heard of Elwell’s death.”
She noticed an odd shake in Parvis’s unemotional voice. “Surely you
remember!” he urged her.
Yes, she remembered: that was the profoundest horror of it. Elwell had died
the day before her husband’s disappearance; and this was Elwell’s portrait;
and it was the portrait of the man who had spoken to her in the garden. She
lifted her head and looked slowly about the library. The library could have
borne witness that it was also the portrait of the man who had come in that
day to call Boyne from his unfinished letter. Through the misty surgings of
her brain she heard the faint boom of half-forgotten words—words spoken by
Alida Stair on the lawn at Pangbourne before Boyne and his wife had ever
seen the house at Lyng, or had imagined that they might one day live there.
“This was the man who spoke to me,” she repeated.

She looked again at Parvis. He was trying to conceal his disturbance under
what he probably imagined to be an expression of indulgent commiseration;
but the edges of his lips were blue. “He thinks me mad; but I’m not mad,” she
reflected; and suddenly there flashed upon her a way of justifying her strange
affirmation.
She sat quiet, controlling the quiver of her lips, and waiting till she could
trust her voice; then she said, looking straight at Parvis: “Will you answer me
one question, please? When was it that Robert Elwell tried to kill himself?”
“When—when?” Parvis stammered.
“Yes; the date. Please try to remember.”
She saw that he was growing still more afraid of her. “I have a reason,” she
insisted.
“Yes, yes. Only I can’t remember. About two months before, I should say.”
“I want the date,” she repeated.
Parvis picked up the newspaper. “We might see here,” he said, still
humouring her. He ran his eyes down the page. “Here it is. Last October—the
—”
She caught the words from him. “The 20th, wasn’t it?” With a sharp look at
her, he verified. “Yes, the 20th. Then you did know?”
“I know now.” Her gaze continued to travel past him. “Sunday, the 20th—
that was the day he came first.”
Parvis’s voice was almost inaudible. “Came here first?”
“Yes.”
“You saw him twice, then?”
“Yes, twice.” She just breathed it at him. “He came first on the 20th of
October. I remember the date because it was the day we went up Meldon
Steep for the first time.” She felt a faint gasp of inward laughter at the thought
that but for that she might have forgotten.
Parvis continued to scrutinise her, as if trying to intercept her gaze.
“We saw him from the roof,” she went on. “He came down the lime-avenue
toward the house. He was dressed just as he is in that picture. My husband
saw him first. He was frightened, and ran down ahead of me; but there was no
one there. He had vanished.”
“Elwell had vanished?” Parvis faltered.
“Yes.” Their two whispers seemed to grope for each other. “I couldn’t think

what had happened. I see now. He tried to come then; but he wasn’t dead
enough—he couldn’t reach us. He had to wait for two months to die; and then
he came back again—and Ned went with him.”
She nodded at Parvis with the look of triumph of a child who has worked
out a difficult puzzle. But suddenly she lifted her hands with a desperate
gesture, pressing them to her temples.
“Oh, my God! I sent him to Ned—I told him where to go! I sent him to this
room!” she screamed.
She felt the walls of books rush toward her, like inward falling ruins; and
she heard Parvis, a long way off, through the ruins, crying to her, and
struggling to get at her. But she was numb to his touch, she did not know what
he was saying. Through the tumult she heard but one clear note, the voice of
Alida Stair, speaking on the lawn at Pangbourne.
“You won’t know till afterward,” it said. “You won’t know till long, long
afterward.”

1
THE LEGEND

I.
THE INCIDENT HAD BEGUN by Bernald’s running across Doctor Robert
Wade one hot summer night at the University Club, and by Wade’s saying, in
the tone of unprofessional laxity which the shadowy stillness of the place
invited: “I got hold of a queer fish at St. Martin’s the other day—case of heat-
prostration picked up in Central Park. When we’d patched him up I found he
had nowhere to go, and not a dollar in his pocket, and I sent him down to our
place at Portchester to rebuild.”
The opening roused his hearer’s attention. Bob Wade had an instinctive
sense of values that Bernald had learned to trust.
“What sort of chap? Young or old?”
“Oh, every age—full of years, and yet with a lot left. He called himself
sixty on the books.”
“Sixty’s a good age for some kinds of living. And age is purely subjective.
How has he used his sixty years?”
“Well—part of them in educating himself, apparently. He’s a scholar—
humanities, languages, and so forth.”
“Oh—decayed gentleman,” Bernald murmured, disappointed.
“Decayed? Not much!” cried the doctor with his accustomed lit eralness. “I
only mentioned that side of Winterman—his name’s Winterman—because it
was the side my mother noticed first. I suppose women generally do. But it’s
only a part—a small part. The man’s the big thing.”
“Really big?”
“Well—there again ... When I took him down to the country, looking rather
like a tramp from a ‘Shelter,’ with an untrimmed beard, and a suit of reach-
me-downs he’d slept round the Park in for a week, I felt sure my mother’d
carry the silver up to her room, and send for the gardener’s dog to sleep in the
hall. But she didn’t.”
“I see. ‘Women and children love him.’ Oh, Wade!” Bernald groaned.
“Not a bit of it! You’re out again. We don’t love him, either of us. But we
feel him-the air’s charged with him. You’ll see.”
And Bernald agreed that he would see, the following Sunday. Wade’s
inarticulate attempts to characterise the stranger had struck his friend. The
human revelation had for Bernald a poignant and ever-renewed interest,

which his trade, as the dramatic critic of a daily paper, had hitherto failed to
diminish. And he knew that Bob Wade, simple and undefiled by literature—
Bernald’s specific amiction—had a free and personal way of judging men,
and the diviner’s knack of reaching their hidden springs. During the days that
followed, the young doctor gave Bernald further details about John
Winterman: details not of fact—for in that respect the stranger’s reticence was
baffling—but of impression. It appeared that Winterman, while lying
insensible in the Park, had been robbed of the few dollars he possessed; and
on leaving the hospital, still weak and half-blind, he had quite simply and
unprotestingly accepted the Wades’ offer to give him shelter till such time as
he should be strong enough to work.
“But what’s his work?” Bernald interjected. “Hasn’t he at least told you
that?”
“Well, writing. Some kind of writing.” Doctor Bob always became vague
when he approached the confines of literature. “He means to take it up again
as soon as his eyes get right.”
Bernald groaned again. “Oh, Lord—that finishes him; and me! He’s looking
for a publisher, of course—he wants a ‘favourable notice.’ I won’t come!”
“He hasn’t written a line for twenty years.”
“A line of what? What kind of literature can one keep corked up for twenty
years?”
Wade surprised him. “The real kind, I should say. But I don’t know
Winterman’s line,” the doctor added. “He speaks of the things he used to
write merely as ‘stuff that wouldn’t sell.’ He has a wonderfully confidential
way of not telling one things. But he says he’ll have to do something for his
living as soon as his eyes are patched up, and that writing is the only trade he
knows. The queer thing is that he, seems pretty sure of selling now. He even
talked of buying the bungalow of us, with an acre or two about it.”
“The bungalow? What’s that?”
“The studio down by the shore that we built for Howland when he thought
he meant to paint.” (Howland Wade, as Bernald knew, had experienced
various “calls.”) “Since he’s taken to writing nobody’s been near the place. I
offered it to Winterman, and he camps there—cooks his meals, does his own
housekeeping, and never comes up to the house except in the evenings, when
he joins us on the verandah, in the dark, and smokes while my mother knits.”
“A discreet visitor, eh?”
“More than he need be. My mother actually wanted him to stay on in the

house—in her pink chintz room. Think of it! But he says houses smother him.
I take it he’s lived for years in the open.”
“In the open where?”
“I can’t make out, except that it was somewhere in the East. ‘East of
everything—beyond the day-spring. In places not on the map.’ That’s the way
he put it; and when I said: ‘You’ve been an explorer, then?’ he smiled in his
beard, and answered: ‘Yes; that’s it—an explorer.’ Yet he doesn’t strike me as
a man of action: hasn’t the hands or the eyes.”
“What sort of hands and eyes has he?”
Wade reflected. His range of observation was not large, but within its limits
it was exact and could give an account of itself.
“He’s worked a lot with his hands, but that’s not what they were made for. I
should say they were extraordinarily delicate conductors of sensation. And his
eye—his eye too. He hasn’t used it to dominate people: he didn’t care to. He
simply looks through ‘em all like windows. Makes me feel like the fellows
who think they’re made of glass. The mitigating circumstance is that he seems
to see such a glorious landscape through me.” Wade grinned at the thought of
serving such a purpose.
“I see. I’ll come on Sunday and be looked through!” Bernald cried.

II.
BERNALD CAME ON Two successive Sundays; and the second time he
lingered till the Tuesday.
“Here he comes!” Wade had said, the first evening, as the two young men,
with Wade’s mother, sat on the verandah, with the Vir ginian creeper drawing,
between the arches, its black arabesques against a moon-lined sky.
Bernald heard a step on the gravel, and saw the red flit of a cigar through
the shrubs. Then a loosely-moving figure obscured the patch of sky between
the creepers, and the spark became the centre of a dim bearded face, in which
Bernald, through the darkness, discerned only a broad white gleam of
forehead.
It was the young man’s subsequent impression that Winterman had not
spoken much that first evening; at any rate, Bernald himself remembered
chiefly what the Wades had said. And this was the more curious because he
had come for the purpose of studying their visitor, and because there was
nothing to distract his attention in Wade’s slow phrases or his mother’s artless
comments. He reflected afterward that there must have been a mysteriously
fertilising quality in the stranger’s silence: it had brooded over their talk like a
rain-cloud over a dry country.
Mrs. Wade, apparently fearing that her son might have given Bernald an
exaggerated notion of their visitor’s importance, had hastened to qualify it
before the latter appeared.
“He’s not what you or Howland would call intellectual—” (Bernald winced
at the coupling of the names)—“not in the least literary; though he told Bob
he used to write. I don’t think, though, it could have been what Howland
would call writing.” Mrs. Wade always named her younger son with a
reverential drop of the voice. She viewed literature much as she did
Providence, as an inscrutable mystery; and she spoke of Howland as a
dedicated being, set apart to perform secret rites within the veil of the
sanctuary.
“I shouldn’t say he had a quick mind,” she continued, reverting to
Winterman. “Sometimes he hardly seems to follow what we’re saying. But
he’s got such sound ideas—when he does speak he’s never silly. And clever
people sometimes are, don’t you think so?” Bernald sighed an unqualified
assent. “And he’s so capable. The other day something went wrong with the
kitchen range, just as I was expecting some friends of Bob’s for dinner; and

do you know, when Mr. Winterman heard we were in trouble, he came and
took a look, and knew at once what to do? I told him it was a dreadful pity he
wasn’t married!”
Close on midnight, when the session on the verandah ended, and the two
young men were strolling down to the bungalow at Winterman’s side,
Bernald’s mind reverted to the image of the fertilising cloud. There was
something brooding, pregnant, in the silent presence beside him: he had, in
place of any circumscribing personal impression, a large hovering sense of
manifold latent meanings. And he felt a thrill of relief when, half-way down
the lawn, Doctor Bob was checked by a voice that called him back to the
telephone.
“Now I’ll be with him alone!” thought Bernald, with a throb like a lover’s.
Under the low rafters of the bungalow Winterman had to grope for the lamp
on his desk, and as its light struck up into his face Bernald’s sense of the
rareness of the opportunity increased. He couldn’t have said why, for the face,
with its bossed forehead, its shabby greyish beard and blunt Socratic nose,
made no direct appeal to the eye. It seemed rather like a stage on which
remarkable things might be enacted, like some shaggy moorland landscape
dependent for form and expression on the clouds rolling over it, and the bursts
of light between; and one of these flashed out in the smile with which
Winterman, as if in answer to his companion’s thought, said simply, as he
turned to fill his pipe: “Now we’ll talk.”
So he’d known all along that they hadn’t yet—and had guessed that, with
Bernald, one might!
The young man’s sudden glow of pleasure left him for a moment unable to
meet the challenge; and in that moment he felt the sweep of something
winged and summoning. His spirit rose to it with a rush, but just as he felt
himself poised between the ascending pinions, the door opened and Bob
Wade reappeared.
“Too bad! I’m so sorry! It was from Howland, to say he can’t come to-
morrow after all.” The doctor panted out his news with honest grief.
“I tried my best to pull it off for you, Winterman; and my brother wants to
come—he’s keen to talk to you and see what he can do. But you see he’s so
tremendously in demand. He’ll try for another Sunday later on.”
Winterman gave an untroubled nod. “Oh, he’ll find me here. I shall work
my time out slowly.” He waved his hand toward the scattered sheets on the
kitchen table which formed his desk.

“Not slowly enough to suit us,” Wade answered hospitably. “Only, if
Howland could have come he might have given you a tip or two—put you on
the right track—shown you how to get in touch with the public.”
Winterman, his hands in his pockets, lounged against the bare pine walls,
twisting his pipe under his beard. “Does your brother enjoy the privilege of
that contact?” he questioned gravely.
Wade stared a little. “Oh, of course Howland’s not what you’d call a
popular writer; he despises that kind of thing. But whatever he says goes with
—well, with the chaps who count; and every one tells me he’s written the
book on Pellerin. You must read it when you get back your eyes.” He paused,
as if to let the name sink in, but Winterman drew at his pipe with a blank face.
“You must have heard of Pellerin, I suppose?” the doctor continued. “I’ve
never read a word of him myself: he’s too big a proposition for me. But one
can’t escape the talk about him. I have him crammed down my throat even in
hospital. The internes read him at the clinics. He tumbles out of the nurses’
pockets. The patients keep him under their pillows. Oh, with most of them, of
course, it’s just a craze, like the last new game or puzzle: they don’t
understand him in the least. Howland says that even now, twenty-five years
after his death, and with his books in everybody’s hands, there are not twenty
people who really understand Pellerin; and Howland ought to know, if
anybody does. He‘s—what’s their great word?—interpreted him. You must
get Howland to put you through a course of Pellerin.”
And as the young men, having taken leave of Winterman, retraced their way
across the lawn, Wade continued to develop the theme of his brother’s
accomplishments.
“I wish I could get Howland to take an interest in Winterman: this is the
third Sunday he’s chucked us. Of course he does get bored with people
consulting him about their writings—but I believe if he could only talk to
Winterman he’d see something in him, as we do. And it would be such a god-
send to the poor devil to have some one to advise him about his work. I’m
going to make a desperate effort to get Howland here next Sunday.”
It was then that Bernald vowed to himself that he would return the next
Sunday at all costs. He hardly knew whether he was prompted by the impulse
to shield Winterman from Howland Wade’s ineptitude, or by the desire to see
the latter abandon himself to the full shamelessness of its display; but of one
fact he was assured—and that was of the existence in Winterman of some
quality which would provoke Howland to the amplest exercise of his fatuity.

“How he’ll draw him—how he’ll draw him!” Bernald chuckled, with a
security the more unaccountable that his one glimpse of Winterman had
shown the latter only as a passive subject for observation; and he felt himself
avenged in advance for the injury of Howland Wade’s existence.

III.
THAT THIS HOPE WAS to be frustrated Bernald learned from Howland
Wade’s own lips, the day before the two young men were to have met at
Portchester.
“I can’t really, my dear fellow,” the Interpreter lisped, passing a polished
hand over the faded smoothness of his face. “Oh, an authentic engagement, I
assure you: otherwise, to oblige old Bob I’d submit cheerfully to looking over
his foundling’s literature. But I’m pledged this week to the Pellerin Society of
Kenosha: I had a hand in founding it, and for two years now they’ve been
aj
patiently waiting for a word from me—the Fiat Lux, so to speak. You see
it’s a ministry, Bernald—I assure you, I look upon my calling quite
religiously.”
As Bernald listened, his disappointment gradually changed to relief.
Howland, on trial, always turned out to be too insufferable, and the pleasure
of watching his antics was invariably lost in the impulse to put a sanguinary
end to them.
“If he’d only kept his beastly pink hands off Pellerin,” Bernald sighed,
thinking for the hundredth time of the thick manuscript condemned to
perpetual incarceration in his own desk by the publication of Howland’s
“definitive” work on the great man. One couldn‘t, after Howland Wade,
expose one’s self to the derision of writing about Pellerin: the eagerness with
which Wade’s book had been devoured proved, not that the public had enough
appetite for another, but simply that, for a stomach so undiscriminating,
anything better than Wade had given it would be too good. And Bernald, in
the confidence that his own work was open to this objection, had stoically
locked it up. Yet if he had resigned himself to the fact that Wade’s book
existed, and was already passing into the immortality of perpetual
republication, he could not, after repeated trials, adjust himself to the author’s
talk about Pellerin. When Wade wrote of the great dead he was egregious, but
in conversation he was familiar and fond. It might have been supposed that
one of the beauties of Pellerin’s hidden life and mysterious taking off would
have been to guard him from the fingering of anecdote; but biographers like
Howland Wade are born to rise above such obstacles. He might be vague or
inaccurate in dealing with the few recorded events of his subject’s life; but
when he left fact for conjecture no one had a firmer footing. Whole chapters
in his volume were constructed in the conditional mood and made up of

hypothetical detail; and in talk, by the very law of the process, hypothesis
became affirmation, and he was ready to tell you confidentially the exact
circumstances of Pellerin’s death, and of the “distressing incident” leading up
to it. Bernald himself not only questioned the form under which this incident
was shaping itself before posterity, but the very fact of its occurrence: he had
never been able to discover any break in the dense cloud enveloping Pellerin’s
end. He had gone away—that was all that any of them knew: he who had so
little, at any time, been with them or of them; and his going had so slightly
stirred the public consciousness that the news of his death, laconically
imparted from afar, had dropped unheeded into the universal scrap-basket, to
be long afterward fished out, with all its details missing, when some enquiring
spirit first became aware, by chance encounter with a volume in a London
book-stall, not only that such a man as John Pellerin had died, but that he had
ever lived, or written.
It need hardly be noted that Howland Wade had not been the pioneer in
question: his had been the safer part of swelling the chorus when it rose, and
gradually drowning the other voices by his own. He had pitched his note so
screamingly, and held it so long, that he was now the accepted authority on
Pellerin, not only in the land which had given birth to his genius but in the
Europe which had first acclaimed it; and it was the central point of pain in
Bernald’s sense of the situation that a man who had so yearned for silence
should have his grave piped over by such a voice as Wade’s.
Bernald’s talk with the Interpreter had revived this ache to the momentary
exclusion of other sensations; and he was still sore with it when, the next
afternoon, he arrived at Portchester for his second Sunday with the Wades.
At the station he had the surprise of seeing Winterman’s face on the
platform, and of hearing from him that Doctor Bob had been called away to
assist at an operation in a distant town.
“Mrs. Wade wanted to put you off, but I believe the message came too late;
so she sent me down to break the news to you,” said Winterman, holding out
his hand.
Perhaps because they were the first conventional words that Bernald had
heard him speak, the young man was struck by the quality his intonation gave
them.
“She wanted to send a carriage,” Winterman added, “but I told her we’d
walk back through the woods.” He looked at Bernald with a kindliness that
flushed the young man with pleasure.
“Are you strong enough? It’s not too far?”

“Oh, no. I’m pulling myself together. Getting back to work is the slowest
part of the business: not on account of my eyes—I can use them now, though
not for reading; but some of the links between things are missing. It’s a kind
of broken spectrum ... here, that boy will look after your bag.”
The walk through the woods remained in Bernald’s memory as an
enchanted hour. He used the word literally, as descriptive of the way in which
Winterman’s contact changed the face of things, or perhaps restored them to
their deeper meanings. And the scene they traversed—one of those little
untended woods that still, in America, fringe the tawdry skirts of civilisation
—acquired, as a background to Winterman, the hush of a spot aware of
transcendent visitings. Did he talk, or did he make Bernald talk? The young
man never knew. He recalled only a sense of lightness and liberation, as if the
hard walls of individuality had melted, and he were merged in the poet’s
deeper interfusion, yet without losing the least sharp edge of self. This general
impression resolved itself afterward into the sense of Winterman’s wide
elemental range. His thought encircled things like the horizon at sea. He
didn‘t, as it happened, touch on lofty themes—Bernald was gleefully aware
that, to Howland Wade, their talk would hardly have been Talk at all—but
Winterman’s mind, applied to lowly topics, was like a lens that brought out
microscopic delicacies and differences.
The lack of Sunday trains kept Doctor Bob for two days on the scene of his
surgical duties, and during those two days Bernald seized every moment of
communion with his friend’s guest. Winterman, as Wade had said, was
reticent concerning his personal affairs, or rather concerning the practical and
material questions to which the term is generally applied. But it was evident
that, in Winterman’s case, the usual classification must be reversed, and that
the discussion of ideas carried one much farther into his intimacy than
familiarity with the incidents of his life.
“That’s exactly what Howland Wade and his tribe have never understood
about Pellerin: that it’s much less important to know how, or even why, he
disapp—”
Bernald pulled himself up with a jerk, and turned to look full at his
companion. It was late on the Monday evening, and the two men, after an
hour’s chat on the verandah to the tune of Mrs. Wade’s knitting-needles, had
bidden their hostess good-night and strolled back to the bungalow together.
“Come and have a pipe before you turn in,” Winterman had said; and they
had sat on together till midnight, with the door of the bungalow open on the
heaving moonlit bay, and summer insects bumping against the chimney of the

lamp. Winterman had just bent down to refill his pipe from the jar on the
table, and Bernald, jerking about to catch him in the circle of lamplight, sat
speechless, staring at a fact that seemed suddenly to have substituted itself for
Winterman’s face, or rather to have taken on its features.
“No, they never saw that Pellerin’s ideas were Pellerin ...” He continued to
stare at Winterman. “Just as this man’s ideas are—why, are Pellerin!”
The thought uttered itself in a kind of inner shout, and Bernald started
upright with the violent impact of his conclusion. Again and again in the last
forty-eight hours he had exclaimed to himself: “This is as good as Pellerin.”
Why hadn’t he said till now: “This is Pellerin”? ... Surprising as the answer
was, he had no choice but to take it. He hadn’t said so simply because
Winterman was better than Pellerin—that there was so much more of him, so
to speak. Yes; but—it came to Bernald in a flash—wouldn’t there by this time
have been any amount more of Pellerin? ... The young man felt actually dizzy
with the thought. That was it—there was the solution of the problem! This
man was Pellerin, and more than Pellerin! It was so fantastic and yet so
unanswerable that he burst into a sudden laugh.
Winterman, at the same moment, brought his palm down with a crash on the
pile of manuscript covering the desk.
“What’s the matter?” Bernald cried.
“My match wasn’t out. In another minute the destruction of the library of
Alexandria would have been a trifle compared to what you’d have seen.”
Winterman, with his large deep laugh, shook out the smouldering sheets.
“And I should have been a pensioner on Doctor Bob the Lord knows how
much longer!”
Bernald looked at him intently. “You’ve really got going again? The thing’s
actually getting into shape?”
“This particular thing is in shape. I drove at it hard all last week, thinking
our friend’s brother would be down on Sunday, and might look it over.”
Bernald had to repress the tendency to another wild laugh.
“Howland—you meant to show Howland what you’ve done?”
Winterman, looming against the moonlight, slowly turned a dusky shaggy
head toward him.
“Isn’t it a good thing to do?”
Bernald wavered, torn between loyalty to his friends and the grotesqueness
of answering in the affirmative. After all, it was none of his business to

furnish Winterman with an estimate of Howland Wade.
“Well, you see, you’ve never told me what your line is,” he answered,
temporising.
“No, because nobody’s ever told me. It’s exactly what I want to find out,”
said the other genially.
“And you expect Wade—?”
“Why, I gathered from our good Doctor that it’s his trade. Doesn’t he
explain—interpret?”
“In his own domain—which is Pellerinism.”
Winterman gazed out musingly upon the moon-touched dusk of waters.
“And what is Pellerinism?” he asked.
Bernald sprang to his feet with a cry. “Ah, I don’t know—but you’re
Pellerin!”
They stood for a minute facing each other, among the uncertain swaying
shadows of the room, with the sea breathing through it as something immense
and inarticulate breathed through young Bernald’s thoughts; then Winterman
threw up his arms with a humorous gesture.
“Don’t shoot!” he said.

IV.
DAWN FOUND THEM THERE, and the sun laid its beams on the rough
floor of the bungalow, before either of the men was conscious of the passage
of time. Bernald, vaguely trying to define his own state in retrospect, could
only phrase it: “I floated ... floated ...”
The gist of fact at the core of the extraordinary experience was simply that
John Pellerin, twenty-five years earlier, had voluntarily disappeared, causing
the rumour of his death to be reported to an inattentive world; and that now he
had come back to see what that world had made of him.
“You’ll hardly believe it of me; I hardly believe it of myself; but I went
away in a rage of disappointment, of wounded pride—no, vanity ! I don’t
know which cut deepest—the sneers or the silence—but between them, there
wasn’t an inch of me that wasn’t raw. I had just the one thing in me: the
message, the cry, the revelation. But nobody saw and nobody listened.
Nobody wanted what I had to give. I was like a poor devil of a tramp looking
for shelter on a bitter night, in a town with every door bolted and all the
windows dark. And suddenly I felt that the easiest thing would be to lie down
and go to sleep in the snow. Perhaps I’d a vague notion that if they found me
there at day-light, frozen stiff, the pathetic spectacle might produce a reaction,
a feeling of remorse ... So I took care to be found! Well, a good many
thousand people die every day on the face of the globe; and I soon discovered
that I was simply one of the thousands; and when I made that discovery I
really died—and stayed dead a year or two ... When I came to life again I was
off on the under side of the world, in regions unaware of what we know as
‘the public.’ Have you any notion how it shifts the point of view to wake
under new constellations? I advise any who’s been in love with a woman
ak
under Cassiopeia to go and think about her under the Southern Cross ... It’s
the only way to tell the pivotal truths from the others ... I didn’t believe in my
theory any less—there was my triumph and my vindication! It held out,
resisted, measured itself with the stars. But I didn’t care a snap of my finger
whether anybody else believed in it, or even knew it had been formulated. It
al
escaped out of my books—my poor still-born books—like Psyche from the
chrysalis, and soared away into the blue, and lived there. I knew then how it
frees an idea to be ignored; how apprehension circumscribes and deforms it ...
Once I’d learned that, it was easy enough to turn to and shift for myself. I was
sure now that my idea would live: the good ones are self-supporting. And

meanwhile I had to learn to be so; and I tried my hand at a number of things
... adventurous, menial, commercial ... It’s not a bad thing for a man to have to
live his life—and we nearly all manage to dodge it. Our first round with the
Sphinx may strike something out of us—a book or a picture or a symphony;
and we’re amazed at our feat, and go on letting that first work breed others, as
some animal forms reproduce each other without renewed fertilisation. So
there we are, committed to our first guess at the riddle; and our works look as
like as successive impressions of the same plate, each with the lines a little
fainter; whereas they ought to be if we touch earth between times—as
different from each other as those other creatures—jelly-fish, aren’t they, of a
kind?—where successive generations produce new forms, and it takes a
zoologist to see the hidden likeness ...
“Well, I proved my first guess, off there in the wilds, and it lived, and grew,
and took care of itself: And I said, ‘Some day it will make itself heard; but by
that time my atoms will have waltzed into a new pattern.’ Then, in Cashmere
one day, I met a fellow in a caravan, with a dog-eared book in his pocket. He
said he never stirred without it—wanted to know where I’d been, never to
have heard of it. It was my guess—in its twentieth edition! ... The globe spun
round at that, and all of a sudden I was under the old stars. That’s the way it
happens when the ballast of vanity shifts! I’d lived a third of a life out there,
unconscious of human opinion—because I supposed it was unconscious of
me. But now—now! Oh, it was different. I wanted to know what they said ...
Not exactly that, either: I wanted to know what I’d made them say. There’s a
difference ... And here I am,“ said John Pellerin, with a pull at his pipe.
So much Bernald retained of his companion’s actual narrative; the rest was
swept away under the tide of wonder that rose and submerged him as Pellerin
—at some indefinitely later stage of their talk—picked up his manuscript and
began to read. Bernald sat opposite, his elbows propped on the table, his eyes
fixed on the swaying waters outside, from which the moon gradually faded,
leaving them to make a denser blackness in the night. As Pellerin read, this
density of blackness—which never for a moment seemed inert or unalive—
was attenuated by imperceptible degrees, till a greyish pallor replaced it; then
the pallor breathed and brightened, and suddenly dawn was on the sea.
Something of the same nature went on in the young man’s mind while he
watched and listened. He was conscious of a gradually withdrawing light, of
an interval of obscurity full of the stir of invisible forces, and then of the
victorious flush of day. And as the light rose, he saw how far he had travelled
and what wonders the night had prepared. Pellerin had been right in saying
that his first idea had survived, had borne the test of time; but he had given his

hearer no hint of the extent to which it had been enlarged and modified, of the
fresh implications it now unfolded. In a brief flash of retrospection Bernald
saw the earlier books dwindle and fall into their place as mere precursors of
this fuller revelation; then, with a leap of rage, he pictured Howland Wade’s
pink hands on the new treasure, and his prophetic feet upon the lecture
platform.

V.
“IT WON’T DO—OH, he let him down as gently as possible; but it appears it
simply won’t do.”
Doctor Bob imparted the ineluctable fact to Bernald while the two men,
accidentally meeting at their club a few nights later, sat together over the
dinner they had immediately agreed to share.
Bernald had left Portchester the morning after his strange discovery, and he
and Bob Wade had not seen each other since. And now Bernald, moved by an
irresistible instinct of postponement, had waited for his companion to bring
up Winterman’s name, and had even executed several conversational
diversions in the hope of delaying its mention. For how could one talk of
Winterman with the thought of Pellerin swelling one’s breast?
“Yes; the very day Howland got back from Kenosha I brought the
manuscript to town, and got him to read it. And yesterday evening I nailed
him, and dragged an answer out of him.”
“Then Howland hasn’t seen Winterman yet?”
“No. He said: ‘Before you let him loose on me I’ll go over the stuff, and see
if it’s at all worth while.’ ”
Bernald drew a freer breath. “And he found it wasn’t?”
“Between ourselves, he found it was of no account at all. Queer, isn’t it,
when the man ... but of course literature’s another proposition. Howland says
it’s one of the cases where an idea might seem original and striking if one
didn’t happen to be able to trace its descent. And this is straight out of bosh—
by Pellerin ... Yes: Pellerin. It seems that everything in the article that isn’t
pure nonsense is just Pellerinism. Howland thinks Winterman must have been
tremendously struck by Pellerin’s writings, and have lived too much out of the
world to know that they’ve become the textbooks of modern thought.
Otherwise, of course, he’d have taken more trouble to disguise his
plagiarisms.”
“I see,” Bernald mused. “Yet you say there is an original element?”
“Yes; but unluckily it’s no good.”
“It’s not—conceivably—in any sense a development of Pellerin’s idea: a
logical step farther?”
“Logical? Howland says it’s twaddle at white heat.”

Bernald sat silent, divided between the satisfaction of seeing the Interpreter
rush upon his fate, and the despair of knowing that the state of mind he
represented was indestructible. Then both emotions were swept away on a
wave of pure joy, as he reflected that now, at last, Howland Wade had given
him back John Pellerin.
The possession was one he did not mean to part with lightly; and the dread
of its being torn from him constrained him to extraordinary precautions.
“You’ve told Winterman, I suppose? How did he take it?”
“Why, unexpectedly, as he does most things. You can never tell which way
he’ll jump. I thought he’d take a high tone, or else laugh it off; but he did
neither. He seemed awfully cast down. I wished myself well out of the job
when I saw how cut up he was.”
Bernald thrilled at the words. Pellerin had shared his own pang, then—the
“old woe of the world” at the perpetuity of human dulness!
“But what did he say to the charge of plagiarism—if you made it?”
“Oh, I told him straight out what Howland said. I thought it fairer. And his
answer to that was the rummest part of all.”
“What was it?” Bernald questioned, with a tremor.
“He said: ‘That’s queer, for I’ve never read Pellerin.’ ”
Bernald drew a deep breath. “Well—and I suppose you believed him?”
“I believed him, because I know him. But the public won‘t—the critics
won’t. And if the plagiarism is a pure coincidence it’s just as bad for him as if
it were a straight steal—isn’t it?”
Bernald sighed his acquiescence.
“It bothers me awfully,” Wade continued, knitting his kindly brows,
“because I could see what a blow it was to him. He’s got to earn his living,
and I don’t suppose he knows how to do anything but write. At his age it’s
hard to start fresh. I put that to Howland—asked him if there wasn’t a chance
he might do better if he only had a little encouragement. I can’t help feeling
he’s got the essential thing in him. But of course I’m no judge when it comes
to books. And Howland says it would be cruel to give him any hope.” Wade
paused, turned his wineglass about under a meditative stare, and then leaned
across the table toward Bernald. “Look here—do you know what I’ve
proposed to Winterman? That he should come to town with me to-morrow
and go in the evening to hear Howland lecture to the Uplift Club. They’re to
meet at Mrs. Beecher Bain‘s, and Howland is to repeat the lecture that he

gave the other day before the Pellerin Society at Kenosha. It will give
Winterman a chance to get some notion of what Pellerin was: he’ll get it
much straighter from Howland than if he tried to plough through Pellerin’s
books. And then afterward—as if accidentally—I thought I might bring him
and Howland together. If Howland could only see him and hear him talk,
there’s no knowing what might come of it. He couldn’t help feeling the man’s
force, as we do; and he might give him a pointer—tell him what line to take.
Anyhow, it would please Winterman, and take the edge off his
disappointment. I saw that as soon as I proposed it.”
“Some one who’s never heard of Pellerin?”
Mrs. Beecher Bain, large, smiling, diffuse, reached out through the
incoming throng on her threshold to detain Bernald with the question as he
was about to move past her in the wake of his companion.
“Oh, keep straight on, Mr. Winterman!” she interrupted herself to call after
the latter. “Into the back drawing-room, please! And remember, you’re to sit
next to me—in the corner on the left, close under the platform.”
She renewed her interrogative clutch on Bernald’s sleeve. “Most curious!
Doctor Wade has been telling me all about your friend—how remarkable you
all think him. And it’s actually true that he’s never heard of Pellerin? Of
course as soon as Doctor Wade told me that, I said ‘Bring him!’ It will be so
extraordinarily interesting to watch the first impression.—Yes, do follow him,
dear Mr. Bernald, and be sure that you and he secure the seats next to me. Of
course Alice Fosdick insists on being with us. She was wild with excitement
when I told her she was to meet some one who’d never heard of Pellerin!”
On the indulgent lips of Mrs. Beecher Bain conjecture speedily passed into
affirmation; and as Bernald’s companion, broad and shaggy in his visible new
evening clothes, moved down the length of the crowded rooms, he was
already, to the ladies drawing aside their skirts to let him pass, the interesting
Huron of the fable.
How far he was aware of the character ascribed to him it was impossible for
Bernald to discover. He was as unconscious as a tree or a cloud, and his
observer had never known any one so alive to human contacts and yet so
secure from them. But the scene was playing such a lively tune on Bernald’s
own sensibilities that for the moment he could not adjust himself to the
probable effect it produced on his companion. The young man, of late, had
made but rare appearances in the group of which Mrs. Beecher Bain was one
of the most indefatigable hostesses, and the Uplift Club the chief medium of

expression. To a critic, obliged by his trade to cultivate convictions, it was the
essence of luxury to leave them at home in his hours of ease; and Bernald
gave his preference to circles in which less finality of judgment prevailed, and
it was consequently less embarrassing to be caught without an opinion.
But in his fresher days he had known the spell of the Uplift Club and the
thrill of moving among the Emancipated; and he felt an odd sense of
rejuvenation as he looked at the rows of faces packed about the embowered
platform from which Howland Wade was presently to hand down the eternal
verities. Many of these countenances belonged to the old days, when the
gospel of Pellerin was unknown, and had required considerable intellectual
courage to avow one’s acceptance of the very doctrines he had since
demolished. The latter moral revolution seemed to have been accepted as
submissively as a change in hair-dressing; and it even struck Bernald that, in
the case of many of the assembled ladies, their convictions were rather newer
than their clothes.
One of the most interesting examples of this readiness of adaptation was
actually, in the person of Miss Alice Fosdick, brushing his elbow with exotic
amulets, and enveloping him in Arabian odours, as she leaned forward to
murmur her sympathetic sense of the situation. Miss Fosdick, who was one of
the most advanced exponents of Pellerinism, had large eyes and a plaintive
mouth, and Bernald had always fancied that she might have been pretty if she
had not been perpetually explaining things.
“Yes, I know—Isabella Bain told me all about him. (He can’t hear us, can
he?) And I wonder if you realise how remarkably interesting it is that we
should have such an opportunity now—I mean the opportunity to see the
impression of Pellerinism on a perfectly fresh mind. (You must introduce him
as soon as the lecture’s over.) I explained that to Isabella as soon as she
showed me Doctor Wade’s note. Of course you see why, don’t you?” Bernald
made a faint motion of acquiescence, which she instantly swept aside. “At
least I think I can make you see why. (If you’re sure he can’t hear?) Why, it’s
just this—Pellerinism is in danger of becoming a truism. Oh, it’s an awful
thing to say! But then I’m not afraid of saying awful things! I rather believe
it’s my mission. What I mean is, that we’re getting into the way of taking
Pellerin for granted—as we do the air we breathe. We don’t sufficiently lead
our conscious life in him—we’re gradually letting him become subliminal.”
She swayed closer to the young man, and he saw that she was making a
graceful attempt to throw her explanatory net over his companion, who,
evading Mrs. Bain’s hospitable signal, had cautiously wedged himself into a
seat between Bernald and the wall.

“Did you hear what I was saying, Mr. Winterman? (Yes, I know who you
are, of course!) Oh, well, I don’t really mind if you did. I was talking about
you—about you and Pellerin. I was explaining to Mr. Bernald that what we
need at this very minute is a Pellerin revival; and we need some one like you
—to whom his message comes as a wonderful new interpretation of life—to
lead the revival, and rouse us out of our apathy ...
“You see,” she went on winningly, “it’s not only the big public that needs it
(of course their Pellerin isn’t ours!) It’s we, his disciples, his interpreters, we
who discovered him and gave him to the world—we, the Chosen People, the
Custodians of the Sacred Books, as Howland Wade calls us—it’s we who are
in perpetual danger of sinking back into the old stagnant ideals, and practising
the Seven Deadly Virtues; it’s we who need to count our mercies, and realise
anew what he’s done for us, and what we ought to do for him! And it’s for
that reason that I urged Mr. Wade to speak here, in the very inner sanctuary of
Pellerinism, exactly as he would speak to the uninitiated—to repeat, simply,
his Kenosha lecture, ‘What Pellerinism Means’; and we ought all, I think, to
listen to him with the hearts of little children—just as you will, Mr.
Winterman—as if he were telling us new things, and we—”
“Alice, dear—” Mrs. Bain murmured with a warning gesture; and Howland
Wade, emerging between the palms, took the centre of the platform.
A pang of commiseration shot through Bernald as he saw him there, so
innocent and so exposed. His plump pulpy body, which made his evening
dress fall into intimate and wrapper-like folds, was like a wide surface spread
to the shafts of irony; and the ripples of his voice seemed to enlarge the
vulnerable area as he leaned forward, poised on confidential finger-tips, to say
persuasively: “Let me try to tell you what Pellerinism means.”
Bernald moved restlessly in his seat. He had the sense of being a party to
something not wholly honourable. He ought not to have come; he ought not to
have let his companion come. Yet how could he have done otherwise? John
Pellerin’s secret was his own. As long as he chose to remain John Winterman
it was no one’s business to gainsay him; and Bernald’s scruples were really
justifiable only in respect of his own presence on the scene. But even in this
respect he ceased to feel them as soon as Howland Wade began to speak.

VI.
IT HAD BEEN ARRANGED that Pellerin, after the meeting of the Uplift
Club, should join Bernald at his rooms and spend the night there, instead of
returning to Portchester. The plan had been eagerly elaborated by the young
man, but he had been unprepared for the alacrity with which his wonderful
friend accepted it. He was beginning to see that it was a part of Pellerin’s
wonderfulness to fall in, quite simply and naturally, with any arrangements
made for his convenience, or tending to promote the convenience of others.
Bernald perceived that his docility in such matters was proportioned to the
force of resistance which, for nearly half a lifetime, had kept him, with his
back to the wall, fighting alone against the powers of darkness. In such a scale
of values how little the small daily alternatives must weigh!
At the close of Howland Wade’s discourse, Bernald, charged with his
prodigious secret, had felt the need to escape for an instant from the liberated
rush of talk. The interest of watching Pellerin was so perilously great that the
watcher felt it might, at any moment, betray him. He lingered in the drawing-
room long enough to see his friend enclosed in a mounting tide, above which
Mrs. Beecher Bain and Miss Fosdick actively waved their conversational
tridents; then he took refuge, at the back of the house, in a small dim library
where, in his younger days, he had discussed personal immortality and the
problem of consciousness with beautiful girls whose names he could not
remember.
In this retreat he surprised Mr. Beecher Bain, a quiet man with a mild brow,
2
who was smoking a surreptitious cigar over the last number of the Strand.
Mr. Bain, at Bernald’s approach, dissembled the Strand under a copy of the
Hibbert Journal, but tendered his cigar-case with the remark that stocks were
heavy again; and Bernald blissfully abandoned himself to this unexpected
contact with reality.
On his return to the drawing-rooms he found that the tide had set toward the
supper-table, and when it finally carried him thither it was to land him in the
welcoming arms of Bob Wade.
“Hullo, old man! Where have you been all this time?—Winterman? Oh,
he’s talking to Howland: yes, I managed it finally. I believe Mrs. Bain has
steered them into the library, so that they shan’t be disturbed. I gave her an
idea of the situation, and she was awfully kind. We’d better leave them alone,
don’t you think? I’m trying to get a croquette for Miss Fosdick.”

Bernald’s secret leapt in his bosom, and he devoted himself to the task of
distributing sandwiches and champagne while his pulses danced to the tune of
the cosmic laughter. The vision of Pellerin and his Interpreter, face to face at
last, had a Titanic grandeur that dwarfed all other comedy. “And I shall hear
of it presently; in an hour or two he’ll be telling me about it. And that hour
will be all mine—mine and his!” The dizziness of the thought made it
difficult for Bernald to preserve the balance of the supper-plates he was
distributing. Life had for him at that moment the completeness which seems
to defy disintegration.
The throng in the dining-room was thickening, and Bernald’s efforts as
purveyor were interrupted by frequent appeals, from ladies who had reached
repleteness, that he should sit down and tell them all about his interesting
friend. Winterman’s fame, trumpeted abroad by Miss Fosdick, had reached
the four corners of the Uplift Club, and Bernald found himself fabricating de
am
toutes pièces a Winterman legend which should in some degree respond to
the Club’s demand for the human document. When at length he had acquitted
himself of this obligation, and was free to work his way back through the
lessening groups into the drawing-room, he was at last rewarded by a glimpse
of his friend, who, still densely encompassed, towered in the centre of the
room in all his sovereign ugliness.
Their eyes met across the crowd; but Bernald gathered only perplexity from
the encounter. What were Pellerin’s eyes saying to him? What orders, what
confidences, what indefinable apprehension did their long look impart? The
young man was still trying to decipher their message when he felt a tap on the
arm, and turned to meet the rueful gaze of Bob Wade, whose meaning lay
clearly enough on the surface of his good blue stare.
“Well, it won’t work—it won’t work,” the doctor groaned.
“What won’t?”
“I mean with Howland. Winterman won’t. Howland doesn’t take to him.
Says he’s crude—frightfully crude. And you know Howland hates crudeness.”
“Oh, I know,” Bernald exulted. It was the word he had waited for—he saw
it now! Once more he was lost in wonder at Howland’s miraculous faculty for
always, as the naturalists said, being true to type.
“So I’m afraid it’s all up with his chance of writing. At least I can do no
more,” said Wade, discouraged.
Bernald pressed him for further details. “Does Winterman seem to mind
much? Did you hear his version?”

“His version?”
“I mean what he said to Howland.”
“Why, no. What the deuce was there for him to say?”
“What indeed? I think I’ll take him home,” said Bernald gaily.
He turned away to join the circle from which, a few minutes before,
Pellerin’s eyes had vainly and enigmatically signalled to him; but the circle
had dispersed, and Pellerin himself was not in sight.
Bernald, looking about him, saw that during his brief aside with Wade the
party had passed into the final phase of dissolution. People still delayed, in
diminishing groups, but the current had set toward the doors, and every
moment or two it bore away a few more lingerers. Bernald, from his post,
commanded the clearing perspective of the two drawing-rooms, and a rapid
survey of their length sufficed to assure him that Pellerin was not in either.
Taking leave of Wade, the young man made his way back to the drawing-
room, where only a few hardened feasters remained, and then passed on to the
library which had been the scene of the late momentous colloquy. But the
library too was empty, and drifting back to the inner drawing-room Bernald
found Mrs. Beecher Bain domestically putting out the candles on the mantel-
piece.
“Dear Mr. Bernald! Do sit down and have a little chat. What a wonderful
privilege it has been! I don’t know when I’ve had such an intense
impression.”
She made way for him, in a corner of the sofa to which she had sunk; and he
echoed her vaguely: “You were impressed, then?”
“I can’t express to you how it affected me! As Alice said, it was a
resurrection—it was as if John Pellerin were actually here in the room with
us!”
Bernald turned on her with a half-audible gasp. “You felt that, dear Mrs.
Bain?”
“We all felt it—every one of us! I don’t wonder the Greeks—it was the
Greeks?—regarded eloquence as a supernatural power. As Alice says, when
one looked at Howland Wade one understood what they meant by the
Afflatus.”
Bernald rose and held out his hand. “Oh, I see—it was Howland who made
you feel as if Pellerin were in the room? And he made Miss Fosdick feel so
too?”

“Why, of course. But why are you rushing off?”
“Because I must hunt up my friend, who’s not used to such late hours.”
“Your friend?” Mrs. Bain had to collect her thoughts. “Oh, Mr. Winterman,
you mean? But he’s gone already.”
“Gone?” Bernald exclaimed, with an odd twinge of foreboding.
Remembering Pellerin’s signal across the crowd, he reproached himself for
not having answered it more promptly. There had been a summons in the look
—and it was certainly strange that his friend should have left the house
without him.
“Are you quite sure?” he asked, with a startled glance at the clock.
“Oh, perfectly. He went half an hour ago. But you needn’t hurry away on
his account, for Alice Fosdick carried him off with her. I saw them leave
together.”
“Carried him off? She took him home with her, you mean?”
“Yes. You know what strange hours she keeps. She told me she was going
to give him a Welsh rabbit, and explain Pellerinism to him.”
“Oh, if she’s going to explain—” Bernald murmured. But his amazement at
the news struggled with a confused impatience to reach his rooms in time to
be there for his friend’s arrival. There could be no stranger spectacle beneath
the stars than that of John Pellerin carried off by Miss Fosdick, and listening,
in the small hours, to her elucidation of his doctrines; but Bernald knew
enough of his sex to be aware that such an experiment may appear less
humorous to its subject than to the detached observer. Even the Uplift Club
and its connotations might benefit by the attraction of the unknown; and it
was conceivable that to a traveller from Mesopotamia Miss Fosdick might
present elements of interest which she had lost for the frequenters of Fifth
Avenue. There was, at any rate, no denying that the affair had become
unexpectedly complex, and that its farther development promised to be rich in
comedy.
In the contemplation of these possibilities Bernald sat over his fire, listening
for Pellerin’s ring. He had arranged his modest quarters with the reverent care
of a celebrant awaiting the descent of his deity. He guessed Pellerin to be
careless of visual detail, but sensitive to the happy blending of sensuous
impressions: to the spell of lamplight on books, and of a deep chair placed
where one could watch the fire. The chair was there, and Bernald, facing it
across the hearth, already saw it filled by Pellerin’s lounging figure. The
autumn dawn came late, and even now they had before them the promise of

some untroubled hours. Bernald, sitting there alone in the warm stillness of
his room, and in the profounder hush of his expectancy, was conscious of
gathering up all his sensibilities and perceptions into one exquisitely-adjusted
instrument of notation. Until now he had tasted Pellerin’s society only in
unpremeditated snatches and had always left him with a sense, on his own
part, of waste and shortcoming. Now, in the lull of this dedicated hour, he felt
that he should miss nothing, and forget nothing, of the initiation that awaited
him. And catching sight of Pellerin’s pipe, he rose and laid it carefully on a
table by the arm-chair...
“No. I’ve never had any news of him,” Bernald heard himself repeating. He
spoke in a low tone, and with the automatic utterance that alone made it
possible to say the words.
They were addressed to Miss Fosdick, into whose neighbourhood chance
had thrown him at a dinner, a year or so later than their encounter at the Uplift
Club. Hitherto he had successfully, and intentionally, avoided Miss Fosdick,
not from any animosity toward that unconscious instrument of fate, but from
an intense reluctance to pronounce the words which he knew he should have
to speak if they met.
Now, as it turned out, his chief surprise was that she should wait so long to
make him speak them. All through the dinner she had swept him along on a
rapid current of talk which showed no tendency to linger or turn back upon
the past. At first he ascribed her reserve to a sense of delicacy with which he
reproached himself for not having credited her; then he saw that she had been
carried so far beyond the point at which they had last faced each other, that
she was finally borne back to it only by the merest hazard of associated ideas.
For it appeared that the very next evening, at Mrs. Beecher Bain‘s, a Hindu
Mahatma was to lecture to the Uplift Club on the Limits of the Subliminal;
and it was owing to no less a person than Howland Wade that this exceptional
privilege had been obtained.
“Of course Howland’s known all over the world as the interpreter of
Pellerinism, and the Aga Gautch, who had absolutely declined to speak
anywhere in public, wrote to Isabella that he could not refuse anything that
Mr. Wade asked. Did you know that Howland’s lecture, ‘What Pellerinism
Means,’ has been translated into twenty-two languages, and gone into a fifth
edition in Icelandic? Why, that reminds me,” Miss Fosdick broke off—“I’ve
never heard what became of your queer friend—what was his name?—whom
you and Bob Wade accused me of spiriting away the night that Howland gave

that very lecture at Hatty Bain’s. And I’ve never seen you since you rushed
into the house the next morning, and dragged me out of bed to know what I’d
done with him!”
With a sharp effort Bernald gathered himself together to have it out. “Well,
what did you do with him?” he retorted.
She laughed her appreciation of his humour. “Just what I told you, of
course. I said good-bye to him on Isabella’s door-step.”
Bernald looked at her. “It’s really true, then, that he didn’t go home with
you?”
She bantered back: “Have you suspected me, all this time, of hiding his
remains in the cellar?” And with a droop of her fine lids she added: “I wish he
had come home with me, for he was rather interesting, and there were things
about Pellerinism that I think I could have explained to him.”
Bernald helped himself to a nectarine, and Miss Fosdick continued on a
note of amused curiosity: “So you’ve really never had any news of him since
that night?”
“No—I’ve never had any news of him.”
“Not the least little message?”
“Not the least little message.”
“Or a rumour or report of any kind?”
“Or a rumour or report of any kind.”
Miss Fosdick’s interest seemed to be revived by the undeniable strangeness
of the case. “It’s rather creepy, isn’t it? What could have happened? You don’t
suppose he could have been waylaid and murdered?” she asked with
brightening eyes.
Bernald shook his head serenely. “No. I’m sure he’s safe—quite safe.”
“But if you’re sure, you must know something.”
“No. I know nothing,” he repeated.
She scanned him incredulously. “But what’s your theory—for you must
have a theory? What in the world can have become of him?”
Bernald returned her look and hesitated. “Do you happen to remember the
last thing he said to you—the very last, on the door step, when he left you?”
“The last thing?” She poised her fork above the peach on her plate. “I don’t
think he said anything. Oh, yes—when I reminded him that he’d solemnly
promised to come back with me and have a little talk he said he couldn’t

because he was going home.”
“Well, then, I suppose,” said Bernald, “he went home.”
She glanced at him as if suspecting a trap. “Dear me, how flat! I always
inclined to a mysterious murder. But of course you know more of him than
you say.”
She began to cut her peach, but paused above a lifted bit to ask, with a
renewal of animation in her expressive eyes: “By the way, had you heard that
Howland Wade has been gradually getting farther and farther away from
Pellerinism? It seems he’s begun to feel that there’s a Positivist element in it
which is narrowing to any one who has gone at all deeply into the Wisdom of
the East. He was intensely interesting about it the other day, and of course I
do see what he feels ... Oh, it’s too long to tell you now; but if you could
manage to come in to tea some afternoon soon—any day but Wednesday—I
should so like to explain—”

1
XINGU

I.
MRS. BALLINGER IS ONE of the ladies who pursue Culture in bands, as
though it were dangerous to meet alone. To this end she had founded the
Lunch Club, an association composed of herself and several other indomitable
huntresses of erudition. The Lunch Club, after three or four winters of
lunching and debate, had acquired such local distinction that the
entertainment of distinguished strangers became one of its accepted functions;
in recognition of which it duly extended to the celebrated “Osric Dane,” on
2
the day of her arrival in Hillbridge, an invitation to be present at the next
meeting.
The club was to meet at Mrs. Ballinger’s. The other members, behind her
back, were of one voice in deploring her unwillingness to cede her rights in
favor of Mrs. Plinth, whose house made a more impressive setting for the
entertainment of celebrities; while, as Mrs. Leveret observed, there was
always the picture-gallery to fall back on.
Mrs. Plinth made no secret of sharing this view. She had always regarded it
as one of her obligations to entertain the Lunch Club’s distinguished guests.
Mrs. Plinth was almost as proud of her obligations as she was of her picture-
gallery; she was in fact fond of implying that the one possession implied the
other, and that only a woman of her wealth could afford to live up to a
standard as high as that which she had set herself An all-round sense of duty,
roughly adaptable to various ends, was, in her opinion, all that Providence
exacted of the more humbly stationed; but the power which had predestined
Mrs. Plinth to keep a footman clearly intended her to maintain an equally
specialized staff of responsibilities. It was the more to be regretted that Mrs.
Ballinger, whose obligations to society were bounded by the narrow scope of
two parlour-maids, should have been so tenacious of the right to entertain
Osric Dane.
The question of that lady’s reception had for a month past profoundly
moved the members of the Lunch Club. It was not that they felt themselves
unequal to the task, but that their sense of the opportunity plunged them into
the agreeable uncertainty of the lady who weighs the alternatives of a well-
stocked wardrobe. If such subsidiary members as Mrs. Leveret were fluttered
by the thought of exchanging ideas with the author of “The Wings of Death,”
no forebodings disturbed the conscious adequacy of Mrs. Plinth, Mrs.
Ballinger and Miss Van Vluyck. “The Wings of Death” had, in fact, at Miss

Van Vluyck’s suggestion, been chosen as the subject of discussion at the last
club meeting, and each member had thus been enabled to express her own
opinion or to appropriate whatever sounded well in the comments of the
others.
Mrs. Roby alone had abstained from profiting by the opportunity; but it was
now openly recognised that, as a member of the Lunch Club, Mrs. Roby was
a failure. “It all comes,” as Miss Van Vluyck put it, “of accepting a woman on
a man’s estimation.” Mrs. Roby, returning to Hillbridge from a prolonged
sojourn in exotic lands—the other ladies no longer took the trouble to
remember where—had been heralded by the distinguished biologist, Professor
Foreland, as the most agreeable woman he had ever met; and the members of
the Lunch Club, impressed by an encomium that carried the weight of a
diploma, and rashly assuming that the Professor’s social sympathies would
follow the line of his professional bent, had seized the chance of annexing a
biological member. Their disillusionment was complete. At Miss Van
Vluyck’s first off-hand mention of the pterodactyl Mrs. Roby had confusedly
murmured: “I know so little about metres—” and after that painful betrayal of
incompetence she had prudently withdrawn from farther participation in the
mental gymnastics of the club.
“I suppose she flattered him,” Miss Van Vluyck summed up—“or else it’s
the way she does her hair.”
The dimensions of Miss Van Vluyck’s dining-room having restricted the
membership of the club to six, the non-conductiveness of one member was a
serious obstacle to the exchange of ideas, and some wonder had already been
expressed that Mrs. Roby should care to live, as it were, on the intellectual
bounty of the others. This feeling was increased by the discovery that she had
not yet read “The Wings of Death.” She owned to having heard the name of
Osric Dane; but that—incredible as it appeared—was the extent of her
acquaintance with the celebrated novelist. The ladies could not conceal their
surprise; but Mrs. Ballinger, whose pride in the club made her wish to put
even Mrs. Roby in the best possible light, gently insinuated that, though she
had not had time to acquaint herself with “The Wings of Death,” she must at
least be familiar with its equally remarkable predecessor, “The Supreme
Instant.”
Mrs. Roby wrinkled her sunny brows in a conscientious effort of memory,
as a result of which she recalled that, oh, yes, she had seen the book at her
3
brother‘s, when she was staying with him in Brazil, and had even carried it
off to read one day on a boating party; but they had all got to shying things at

each other in the boat, and the book had gone overboard, so she had never had
the chance—
The picture evoked by this anecdote did not increase Mrs. Roby’s credit
with the club, and there was a painful pause, which was broken by Mrs.
Plinth’s remarking: “I can understand that, with all your other pursuits, you
should not find much time for reading; but I should have thought you might at
least have got up ‘The Wings of Death’ before Osric Dane’s arrival.”
Mrs. Roby took this rebuke good-humouredly. She had meant, she owned,
to glance through the book; but she had been so absorbed in a novel of
4
Trollope‘s that-
“No one reads Trollope now,” Mrs. Ballinger interrupted.
Mrs. Roby looked pained. “I’m only just beginning,” she confessed.
“And does he interest you?” Mrs. Plinth enquired.
“He amuses me.”
“Amusement,” said Mrs. Plinth, “is hardly what I look for in my choice of
books.”
“Oh, certainly, ‘The Wings of Death’ is not amusing,” ventured Mrs.
Leveret, whose manner of putting forth an opinion was like that of an
obliging salesman with a variety of other styles to submit if his first selection
does not suit.
“Was it meant to be?” enquired Mrs. Plinth, who was fond of asking
questions that she permitted no one but herself to answer. “Assuredly not.”
“Assuredly not—that is what I was going to say,” assented Mrs. Leveret,
hastily rolling up her opinion and reaching for another. “It was meant to—to
elevate.”
Miss Van Vluyck adjusted her spectacles as though they were the black cap
of condemnation. “I hardly see,” she interposed, “how a book steeped in the
bitterest pessimism can be said to elevate, however much it may instruct.”
“I meant, of course, to instruct,” said Mrs. Leveret, flurried by the
unexpected distinction between two terms which she had supposed to be
synonymous. Mrs. Leveret’s enjoyment of the Lunch Club was frequently
marred by such surprises; and not knowing her own value to the other ladies
as a mirror for their mental complacency she was sometimes troubled by a
doubt of her worthiness to join in their debates. It was only the fact of having
a dull sister who thought her clever that saved her from a sense of hopeless
inferiority.

“Do they get married in the end?” Mrs. Roby interposed.
“They—who?” the Lunch Club collectively exclaimed.
“Why, the girl and man. It’s a novel, isn’t it? I always think that’s the one
thing that matters. If they’re parted it spoils my dinner.”
Mrs. Plinth and Mrs. Ballinger exchanged scandalised glances, and the
latter said: “I should hardly advise you to read ‘The Wings of Death’ in that
spirit. For my part, when there are so many books one has to read, I wonder
how any one can find time for those that are merely amusing.”
“The beautiful part of it,” Laura Glyde murmured, “is surely just this—that
no one can tell how ‘The Wings of Death’ ends. Osric Dane, overcome by the
awful significance of her own meaning, has mercifully veiled it—perhaps
even from herself—as Apelles, in representing the sacrifice of Iphigenia,
5
veiled the face of Agamemnon.” “What’s that? Is it poetry?” whispered Mrs.
Leveret to Mrs. Plinth, who, disdaining a definite reply, said coldly: “You
should look it up. I always make it a point to look things up.” Her tone added
—“though I might easily have it done for me by the footman.”
“I was about to say,” Miss Van Vluyck resumed, “that it must always be a
question whether a book can instruct unless it elevates.”
“Oh—” murmured Mrs. Leveret, now feeling herself hopelessly astray.
“I don’t know,” said Mrs. Ballinger, scenting in Miss Van Vluyck’s tone a
tendency to depreciate the coveted distinction of entertaining Osric Dane; “I
don’t know that such a question can seriously be raised as to a book which
has attracted more attention among thoughtful people than any novel since
6
‘Robert Elsmere.’ ” “Oh, but don’t you see,” exclaimed Laura Glyde, “that
it’s just the dark hopelessness of it all—the wonderful tone-scheme of black
on black—that makes it such an artistic achievement? It reminded me when I
7
read it of Prince Rupert’s manière noire ... the book is etched, not painted,
yet one feels the colour-values so intensely....”
“Who is he?” Mrs. Leveret whispered to her neighbour. “Some one she’s
met abroad?”
“The wonderful part of the book,” Mrs. Ballinger conceded, “is that it may
be looked at from so many points of view. I hear that as a study of
an
determinism Professor Lupton ranks it with ‘The Data of Ethics.’ ”
“I’m told that Osric Dane spent ten years in preparatory studies before
beginning to write it,” said Mrs. Plinth. “She looks up everything—verifies
everything. It has always been my principle, as you know. Nothing would

induce me, now, to put aside a book before I’d finished it, just because I can
buy as many more as I want.”
“And what do you think of ‘The Wings of Death’?” Mrs. Roby abruptly
asked her.
It was the kind of question that might be termed out of order, and the ladies
glanced at each other as though disclaiming any share in such a breach of
discipline. They all knew there was nothing Mrs. Plinth so much disliked as
being asked her opinion of a book. Books were written to read; if one read
them what more could be expected? To be questioned in detail regarding the
contents of a volume seemed to her as great an outrage as being searched for
smuggled laces at the Custom House. The club had always respected this
idiosyncrasy of Mrs. Plinth’s. Such opinions as she had were imposing and
substantial: her mind, like her house, was furnished with monumental
“pieces” that were not meant to be disarranged; and it was one of the
unwritten rules of the Lunch Club that, within her own province, each
member’s habits of thought should be respected. The meeting therefore closed
with an increased sense, on the part of the other ladies, of Mrs. Roby’s
hopeless unfitness to be one of them.

II.
MRS. LEVERET, ON THE eventful day, arrived early at Mrs. Ballinger‘s,
her volume of Appropriate Allusions in her pocket.
It always flustered Mrs. Leveret to be late at the Lunch Club: she liked to
collect her thoughts and gather a hint, as the others assembled, of the turn the
conversation was likely to take. To-day, however, she felt herself completely
at a loss; and even the familiar contact of Appropriate Allusions, which stuck
into her as she sat down, failed to give her any reassurance. It was an
admirable little volume, compiled to meet all the social emergencies; so that,
whether on the occasion of Anniversaries, joyful or melancholy (as the
classification ran), of Banquets, social or municipal, or of Baptisms, Church
of England or sectarian, its student need never be at a loss for a pertinent
reference. Mrs. Leveret, though she had for years devoutly conned its pages,
valued it, however, rather for its moral support than for its practical services;
for though in the privacy of her own room she commanded an army of
quotations, these invariably deserted her at the critical moment, and the only
8
phrase she retained—Canst thou draw out leviathan with a hook? —was one
she had never yet found occasion to apply.
To-day she felt that even the complete mastery of the volume would hardly
have insured her self-possession; for she thought it probable that, even if she
did, in some miraculous way, remember an Allusion, it would be only to find
that Osric Dane used a different volume (Mrs. Leveret was convinced that
literary people always carried them), and would consequently not recognise
her quotations.
Mrs. Leveret’s sense of being adrift was intensified by the appearance of
Mrs. Ballinger’s drawing-room. To a careless eye its aspect was unchanged;
but those acquainted with Mrs. Ballinger’s way of arranging her books would
instantly have detected the marks of recent perturbation. Mrs. Ballinger’s
province, as a member of the Lunch Club, was the Book of the Day. On that,
whatever it was, from a novel to a treatise on experimental psychology, she
was confidently, authoritatively “up.” What became of last year’s books, or
last week’s even; what she did with the “subjects” she had previously
professed with equal authority; no one had ever yet discovered. Her mind was
an hotel where facts came and went like transient lodgers, without leaving
their address behind, and frequently without paying for their board. It was
Mrs. Ballinger’s boast that she was “abreast with the Thought of the Day,”

and her pride that this advanced position should be expressed by the books on
her table. These volumes, frequently renewed, and almost always damp from
the press, bore names generally unfamiliar to Mrs. Leveret, and giving her, as
she furtively scanned them, a disheartening glimpse of new fields of
knowledge to be breathlessly traversed in Mrs. Ballinger’s wake. But to-day a
number of maturer-looking volumes were adroitly mingled with the primeurs
of the press—Karl Marx jostled Professor Bergson, and the “Confessions of
ao
St. Augustine” lay beside the last work on “Mendelism”; so that even to
Mrs. Leveret’s fluttered perceptions it was clear that Mrs. Ballinger didn’t in
the least know what Osric Dane was likely to talk about, and had taken
measures to be prepared for anything. Mrs. Leveret felt like a passenger on an
ocean steamer who is told that there is no immediate danger, but that she had
better put on her life-belt.
It was a relief to be roused from these forebodings by Miss Van Vluyck’s
arrival.
“Well, my dear,” the new-comer briskly asked her hostess, “what subjects
are we to discuss to-day?”
Mrs. Ballinger was furtively replacing a volume of Wordsworth by a copy
ap
of Verlaine. “I hardly know,” she said, somewhat nervously. “Perhaps we
had better leave that to circumstances.”
“Circumstances?” said Miss Van Vluyck drily. “That means, I suppose, that
Laura Glyde will take the floor as usual, and we shall be deluged with
literature.”
Philanthropy and statistics were Miss Van Vluyck’s province, and she
resented any tendency to divert their guest’s attention from these topics.
Mrs. Plinth at this moment appeared.
“Literature?” she protested in a tone of remonstrance. “But this is perfectly
unexpected. I understood we were to talk of Osric Dane’s novel.”
Mrs. Ballinger winced at the discrimination, but let it pass. “We can hardly
make that our chief subject—at least not too intentionally,” she suggested.
“Of course we can let our talk drift in that direction; but we ought to have
some other topic as an introduction, and that is what I wanted to consult you
about. The fact is, we know so little of Osric Dane’s tastes and interests that it
is difficult to make any special preparation.”
“It may be difficult,” said Mrs. Plinth with decision, “but it is necessary. I
know what that happy-go-lucky principle leads to. As I told one of my nieces
the other day, there are certain emergencies for which a lady should always be

prepared. It’s in shocking taste to wear colours when one pays a visit of
condolence, or a last year’s dress when there are reports that one’s husband is
on the wrong side of the market; and so it is with conversation. All I ask is
that I should know beforehand what is to be talked about; then I feel sure of
being able to say the proper thing.”
“I quite agree with you,” Mrs. Ballinger assented; “but—”
And at that instant, heralded by the fluttered parlour-maid, Osric Dane
appeared upon the threshold.
Mrs. Leveret told her sister afterward that she had known at a glance what
was coming. She saw that Osric Dane was not going to meet them half way.
That distinguished personage had indeed entered with an air of compulsion
not calculated to promote the easy exercise of hospitality. She looked as
though she were about to be photographed for a new edition of her books.
The desire to propitiate a divinity is generally in inverse ratio to its
responsiveness, and the sense of discouragement produced by Osric Dane’s
entrance visibly increased the Lunch Club’s eagerness to please her. Any
lingering idea that she might consider herself under an obligation to her
entertainers was at once dispelled by her manner: as Mrs. Leveret said
afterward to her sister, she had a way of looking at you that made you feel as
if there was something wrong with your hat. This evidence of greatness
produced such an immediate impression on the ladies that a shudder of awe
ran through them when Mrs. Roby, as their hostess led the great personage
into the dining-room, turned back to whisper to the others: “What a brute she
is!”
The hour about the table did not tend to revise this verdict. It was passed by
Osric Dane in the silent deglutition of Mrs. Ballinger’s menu, and by the
members of the club in the emission of tentative platitudes which their guest
seemed to swallow as perfunctorily as the successive courses of the luncheon.
Mrs. Ballinger’s reluctance to fix a topic had thrown the club into a mental
disarray which increased with the return to the drawing-room, where the
actual business of discussion was to open. Each lady waited for the other to
speak; and there was a general shock of disappointment when their hostess
opened the conversation by the painfully commonplace enquiry: “Is this your
first visit to Hillbridge?”
Even Mrs. Leveret was conscious that this was a bad beginning; and a
vague impulse of deprecation made Miss Glyde interject: “It is a very small
place indeed.”

Mrs. Plinth bristled. “We have a great many representative people,” she
said, in the tone of one who speaks for her order.
Osric Dane turned to her. “What do they represent?” she asked.
Mrs. Plinth’s constitutional dislike to being questioned was intensified by
her sense of unpreparedness; and her reproachful glance passed the question
on to Mrs. Ballinger.
“Why,” said that lady, glancing in turn at the other members, “as a
community I hope it is not too much to say that we stand for culture.”
“For art—” Miss Glyde interjected.
“For art and literature,” Mrs. Ballinger emended.
“And for sociology, I trust,” snapped Miss Van Vluyck.
“We have a standard,” said Mrs. Plinth, feeling herself suddenly secure on
the vast expanse of a generalisation; and Mrs. Leveret, thinking there must be
room for more than one on so broad a statement, took courage to murmur:
“Oh, certainly; we have a standard.”
“The object of our little club,” Mrs. Ballinger continued, “is to concentrate
the highest tendencies of Hillbridge—to centralise and focus its intellectual
effort.”
This was felt to be so happy that the ladies drew an almost audible breath of
relief.
“We aspire,” the President went on, “to be in touch with whatever is highest
in art, literature and ethics.”
Osric Dane again turned to her. “What ethics?” she asked.
A tremor of apprehension encircled the room. None of the ladies required
any preparation to pronounce on a question of morals; but when they were
called ethics it was different. The club, when fresh from the “Encyclopædia
Britannica,” the “Reader’s Handbook” or Smith’s “Classical Dictionary,”
could deal confidently with any subject; but when taken unawares it had been
known to define agnosticism as a heresy of the Early Church and Professor
aq
Froude as a distinguished histologist; and such minor members as Mrs.
Leveret still secretly regarded ethics as something vaguely pagan.
Even to Mrs. Ballinger, Osric Dane’s question was unsettling, and there was
a general sense of gratitude when Laura Glyde leaned forward to say, with her
most sympathetic accent: “You must excuse us, Mrs. Dane, for not being able,
just at present, to talk of anything but ‘The Wings of Death.’ ”

“Yes,” said Miss Van Vluyck, with a sudden resolve to carry the war into
the enemy’s camp. “We are so anxious to know the exact purpose you had in
mind in writing your wonderful book.”
“You will find,” Mrs. Plinth interposed, “that we are not superficial
readers.”
“We are eager to hear from you,” Miss Van Vluyck continued, “if the
pessimistic tendency of the book is an expression of your own convictions or
—”
“Or merely,” Miss Glyde thrust in, “a sombre background brushed in to
throw your figures into more vivid relief. Are you not primarily plastic?”
“I have always maintained,” Mrs. Ballinger interposed, “that you represent
the purely objective method—”
Osric Dane helped herself critically to coffee. “How do you define
objective?” she then enquired.
There was a flurried pause before Laura Glyde intensely murmured: “In
reading you we don’t define, we feel.”
Osric Dane smiled. “The cerebellum,” she remarked, “is not infrequently
the seat of the literary emotions.” And she took a second lump of sugar.
The sting that this remark was vaguely felt to conceal was almost
neutralised by the satisfaction of being addressed in such technical language.
“Ah, the cerebellum,” said Miss Van Vluyck complacently. “The club took a
course in psychology last winter.”
“Which psychology?” asked Osric Dane.
There was an agonising pause, during which each member of the club
secretly deplored the distressing inefficiency of the others. Only Mrs. Roby
went on placidly sipping her chartreuse. At last Mrs. Ballinger said, with an
attempt at a high tone: “Well, really, you know, it was last year that we took
psychology, and this winter we have been so absorbed in—”
She broke off, nervously trying to recall some of the club’s discussions; but
her faculties seemed to be paralysed by the petrifying stare of Osric Dane.
What had the club been absorbed in? Mrs. Ballinger, with a vague purpose of
gaining time, repeated slowly: “We’ve been so intensely absorbed in—”
Mrs. Roby put down her liqueur glass and drew near the group with a smile.
“In Xingu?” she gently prompted.
A thrill ran through the other members. They exchanged confused glances,

and then, with one accord, turned a gaze of mingled relief and interrogation
on their rescuer. The expression of each denoted a different phase of the same
emotion. Mrs. Plinth was the first to compose her features to an air of
reassurance: after a moment’s hasty adjustment her look almost implied that it
was she who had given the word to Mrs. Ballinger.
“Xingu, of course!” exclaimed the latter with her accustomed promptness,
while Miss Van Vluyck and Laura Glyde seemed to be plumbing the depths of
memory, and Mrs. Leveret, feeling apprehensively for Appropriate Allusions,
was somehow reassured by the uncomfortable pressure of its bulk against her
person.
Osric Dane’s change of countenance was no less striking than that of her
entertainers. She too put down her coffee-cup, but with a look of distinct
annoyance; she too wore, for a brief moment, what Mrs. Roby afterward
described as the look of feeling for something in the back of her head; and
before she could dissemble these momentary signs of weakness, Mrs. Roby,
turning to her with a deferential smile, had said: “And we’ve been so hoping
that to-day you would tell us just what you think of it.”
Osric Dane received the homage of the smile as a matter of course; but the
accompanying question obviously embarrassed her, and it became clear to her
observers that she was not quick at shifting her facial scenery. It was as
though her countenance had so long been set in an expression of unchallenged
superiority that the muscles had stiffened, and refused to obey her orders.
“Xingu—” she said, as if seeking in her turn to gain time.
Mrs. Roby continued to press her. “Knowing how engrossing the subject is,
you will understand how it happens that the club has let everything else go to
the wall for the moment. Since we took up Xingu I might almost say—were it
not for your books—that nothing else seems to us worth remembering.”
Osric Dane’s stern features were darkened rather than lit up by an uneasy
smile. “I am glad to hear that you make one exception,” she gave out between
narrowed lips.
“Oh, of course,” Mrs. Roby said prettily; “but as you have shown us that—
so very naturally!—you don’t care to talk of your own things, we really can’t
let you off from telling us exactly what you think about Xingu; especially,”
she added, with a still more persuasive smile, “as some people say that one of
your last books was saturated with it.”
It was an it, then—the assurance sped like fire through the parched minds of
the other members. In their eagerness to gain the least little clue to Xingu they

almost forgot the joy of assisting at the discomfiture of Mrs. Dane.
The latter reddened nervously under her antagonist’s challenge. “May I
ask,” she faltered out, “to which of my books you refer?”
Mrs. Roby did not falter. “That’s just what I want you to tell us; because,
though I was present, I didn’t actually take part.”
“Present at what?” Mrs. Dane took her up; and for an instant the trembling
members of the Lunch Club thought that the champion Providence had raised
up for them had lost a point. But Mrs. Roby explained herself gaily: “At the
discussion, of course. And so we’re dreadfully anxious to know just how it
was that you went into the Xingu.”
There was a portentous pause, a silence so big with incalculable dangers
that the members with one accord checked the words on their lips, like
soldiers dropping their arms to watch a single combat between their leaders.
Then Mrs. Dane gave expression to their inmost dread by saying sharply: “Ah
—you say the Xingu, do you?”
Mrs. Roby smiled undauntedly. “It is a shade pedantic, isn’t it? Personally, I
always drop the article; but I don’t know how the other members feel about
it.”
The other members looked as though they would willingly have dispensed
with this appeal to their opinion, and Mrs. Roby, after a bright glance about
the group, went on: “They probably think, as I do, that nothing really matters
except the thing itself—except Xingu.”
No immediate reply seemed to occur to Mrs. Dane, and Mrs. Ballinger
gathered courage to say: “Surely every one must feel that about Xingu.”
Mrs. Plinth came to her support with a heavy murmur of assent, and Laura
Glyde sighed out emotionally: “I have known cases where it has changed a
whole life.”
“It has done me worlds of good,” Mrs. Leveret interjected, seeming to
herself to remember that she had either taken it or read it the winter before.
“Of course,” Mrs. Roby admitted, “the difficulty is that one must give up so
9
much time to it. It’s very long.” “I can’t imagine,” said Miss Van Vluyck,
“grudging the time given to such a subject.”
“And deep in places,” Mrs. Roby pursued; (so then it was a book!) “And it
isn’t easy to skip.”
“I never skip,” said Mrs. Plinth dogmatically.
“Ah, it’s dangerous to, in Xingu. Even at the start there are places where

one can’t. One must just wade through.”
“I should hardly call it wading,” said Mrs. Ballinger sarcastically.
Mrs. Roby sent her a look of interest. “Ah—you always found it went
swimmingly?”
Mrs. Ballinger hesitated. “Of course there are difficult passages,” she
conceded.
“Yes; some are not at all clear—even,” Mrs. Roby added, “if one is familiar
with the original.”
“As I suppose you are?” Osric Dane interposed, suddenly fixing her with a
look of challenge.
Mrs. Roby met it by a deprecating gesture. “Oh, it’s really not difficult up to
a certain point; though some of the branches are very little known, and it’s
almost impossible to get at the source.”
“Have you ever tried?” Mrs. Plinth enquired, still distrustful of Mrs. Roby’s
thoroughness.
Mrs. Roby was silent for a moment; then she replied with lowered lids: “No
—but a friend of mine did; a very brilliant man; and he told me it was best for
women—not to....”
A shudder ran around the room. Mrs. Leveret coughed so that the parlour-
maid, who was handing the cigarettes, should not hear; Miss Van Vluyck’s
face took on a nauseated expression, and Mrs. Plinth looked as if she were
passing some one she did not care to bow to. But the most remarkable result
of Mrs. Roby’s words was the effect they produced on the Lunch Club’s
distinguished guest. Osric Dane’s impassive features suddenly softened to an
expression of the warmest human sympathy, and edging her chair toward Mrs.
Roby’s she asked: “Did he really? And—did you find he was right?”
Mrs. Ballinger, in whom annoyance at Mrs. Roby’s unwonted assumption of
prominence was beginning to displace gratitude for the aid she had rendered,
could not consent to her being allowed, by such dubious means, to
monopolise the attention of their guest. If Osric Dane had not enough self-
respect to resent Mrs. Roby’s flippancy, at least the Lunch Club would do so
in the person of its President.
Mrs. Ballinger laid her hand on Mrs. Roby’s arm. “We must not forget,” she
said with a frigid amiability, “that absorbing as Xingu is to us, it may be less
interesting to—”
“Oh, no, on the contrary, I assure you,” Osric Dane intervened.

“—to others,” Mrs. Ballinger finished firmly; “and we must not allow our
little meeting to end without persuading Mrs. Dane to say a few words to us
on a subject which, to-day, is much more present in all our thoughts. I refer, of
course, to ‘The Wings of Death.’”
The other members, animated by various degrees of the same sentiment,
and encouraged by the humanised mien of their redoubtable guest, repeated
after Mrs. Ballinger: “Oh, yes, you really must talk to us a little about your
book.”
Osric Dane’s expression became as bored, though not as haughty, as when
her work had been previously mentioned. But before she could respond to
Mrs. Ballinger’s request, Mrs. Roby had risen from her seat, and was pulling
down her veil over her frivolous nose.
“I’m so sorry,” she said, advancing toward her hostess with outstretched
hand, “but before Mrs. Dane begins I think I’d better run away. Unluckily, as
you know, I haven’t read her books, so I should be at a terrible disadvantage
among you all, and besides, I’ve an engagement to play bridge.”
If Mrs. Roby had simply pleaded her ignorance of Osric Dane’s works as a
reason for withdrawing, the Lunch Club, in view of her recent prowess, might
have approved such evidence of discretion; but to couple this excuse with the
brazen announcement that she was foregoing the privilege for the purpose of
joining a bridge-party was only one more instance of her deplorable lack of
discrimination.
The ladies were disposed, however, to feel that her departure—now that she
had performed the sole service she was ever likely to render them—would
probably make for greater order and dignity in the impending discussion,
besides relieving them of the sense of self-distrust which her presence always
mysteriously produced. Mrs. Ballinger therefore restricted herself to a formal
murmur of regret, and the other members were just grouping themselves
comfortably about Osric Dane when the latter, to their dismay, started up from
the sofa on which she had been seated.
“Oh wait—do wait, and I’ll go with you!” she called out to Mrs. Roby; and,
seizing the hands of the disconcerted members, she administered a series of
farewell pressures with the mechanical haste of a railway-conductor punching
tickets.
“I’m so sorry—I’d quite forgotten—” she flung back at them from the
threshold; and as she joined Mrs. Roby, who had turned in surprise at her
appeal, the other ladies had the mortification of hearing her say, in a voice
which she did not take the pains to lower: “If you’ll let me walk a little way

with you, I should so like to ask you a few more questions about Xingu ...”

III.
THE INCIDENT HAD BEEN so rapid that the door closed on the departing
pair before the other members had time to understand what was happening.
Then a sense of the indignity put upon them by Osric Dane’s unceremonious
desertion began to contend with the confused feeling that they had been
cheated out of their due without exactly knowing how or why.
There was a silence, during which Mrs. Ballinger, with a perfunctory hand,
rearranged the skilfully grouped literature at which her distinguished guest
had not so much as glanced; then Miss Van Vluyck tartly pronounced: “Well,
I can’t say that I consider Osric Dane’s departure a great loss.”
This confession crystallised the resentment of the other members, and Mrs.
Leveret exclaimed: “I do believe she came on purpose to be nasty!”
It was Mrs. Plinth’s private opinion that Osric Dane’s attitude toward the
Lunch Club might have been very different had it welcomed her in the
majestic setting of the Plinth drawing-rooms; but not liking to reflect on the
inadequacy of Mrs. Ballinger’s establishment she sought a roundabout
satisfaction in depreciating her lack of foresight.
“I said from the first that we ought to have had a subject ready. It’s what
always happens when you’re unprepared. Now if we’d only got up Xingu—”
The slowness of Mrs. Plinth’s mental processes was always allowed for by
the club; but this instance of it was too much for Mrs. Ballinger’s equanimity.
“Xingu!” she scoffed. “Why, it was the fact of our knowing so much more
about it than she did—unprepared though we were—that made Osric Dane so
furious. I should have thought that was plain enough to everybody!”
This retort impressed even Mrs. Plinth, and Laura Glyde, moved by an
impulse of generosity, said: “Yes, we really ought to be grateful to Mrs. Roby
for introducing the topic. It may have made Osric Dane furious, but at least it
made her civil.”
“I am glad we were able to show her,” added Miss Van Vluyck, “that a
broad and up-to-date culture is not confined to the great intellectual centres.”
This increased the satisfaction of the other members, and they began to
forget their wrath against Osric Dane in the pleasure of having contributed to
her discomfiture.
Miss Van Vluyck thoughtfully rubbed her spectacles. “What surprised me

most,” she continued, “was that Fanny Roby should be so up on Xingu.”
This remark threw a slight chill on the company, but Mrs. Ballinger said
with an air of indulgent irony: “Mrs. Roby always has the knack of making a
little go a long way; still, we certainly owe her a debt for happening to
remember that she’d heard of Xingu.” And this was felt by the other members
to be a graceful way of cancelling once for all the club’s obligation to Mrs.
Roby.
Even Mrs. Leveret took courage to speed a timid shaft of irony. “I fancy
Osric Dane hardly expected to take a lesson in Xingu at Hillbridge!”
Mrs. Ballinger smiled. “When she asked me what we represented—do you
remember?—I wish I’d simply said we represented Xingu!”
All the ladies laughed appreciatively at this sally, except Mrs. Plinth, who
said, after a moment’s deliberation: “I’m not sure it would have been wise to
do so.”
Mrs. Ballinger, who was already beginning to feel as if she had launched at
Osric Dane the retort which had just occurred to her, turned ironically on Mrs.
Plinth. “May I ask why?” she enquired.
Mrs. Plinth looked grave. “Surely,” she said, “I understood from Mrs. Roby
herself that the subject was one it was as well not to go into too deeply?”
Miss Van Vluyck rejoined with precision: “I think that applied only to an
investigation of the origin of the—of the—”; and suddenly she found that her
usually accurate memory had failed her. “It’s a part of the subject I never
studied myself,” she concluded.
“Nor I,” said Mrs. Ballinger.
Laura Glyde bent toward them with widened eyes. “And yet it seems—
doesn’t it?—the part that is fullest of an esoteric fascination?”
“I don’t know on what you base that,” said Miss Van Vluyck
argumentatively.
“Well, didn’t you notice how intensely interested Osric Dane became as
soon as she heard what the brilliant foreigner—he was a foreigner, wasn’t he?
—had told Mrs. Roby about the origin—the origin of the rite—or whatever
you call it?”
Mrs. Plinth looked disapproving, and Mrs. Ballinger visibly wavered. Then
she said: “It may not be desirable to touch on the—on that part of the subject
in general conversation; but, from the importance it evidently has to a woman
of Osric Dane’s distinction, I feel as if we ought not to be afraid to discuss it

among ourselves—without gloves—though with closed doors, if necessary.”
“I’m quite of your opinion,” Miss Van Vluyck came briskly to her support;
“on condition, that is, that all grossness of language is avoided.”
“Oh, I’m sure we shall understand without that,” Mrs. Leveret tittered; and
Laura Glyde added significantly: “I fancy we can read between the lines,”
while Mrs. Ballinger rose to assure herself that the doors were really closed.
Mrs. Plinth had not yet given her adhesion. “I hardly see,” she began, “what
benefit is to be derived from investigating such peculiar customs—”
But Mrs. Ballinger’s patience had reached the extreme limit of tension.
“This at least,” she returned; “that we shall not be placed again in the
humiliating position of finding ourselves less up on our own subjects than
Fanny Roby!”
Even to Mrs. Plinth this argument was conclusive. She peered furtively
about the room and lowered her commanding tones to ask: “Have you got a
copy?”
“A—a copy?” stammered Mrs. Ballinger. She was aware that the other
members were looking at her expectantly, and that this answer was
inadequate, so she supported it by asking another question. “A copy of what?”
Her companions bent their expectant gaze on Mrs. Plinth, who, in turn,
appeared less sure of herself than usual. “Why, of—of—the book,” she
explained.
“What book?” snapped Miss Van Vluyck, almost as sharply as Osric Dane.
Mrs. Ballinger looked at Laura Glyde, whose eyes were interrogatively
fixed on Mrs. Leveret. The fact of being deferred to was so new to the latter
that it filled her with an insane temerity. “Why, Xingu, of course!” she
exclaimed.
A profound silence followed this challenge to the resources of Mrs.
Ballinger’s library, and the latter, after glancing nervously toward the Books
of the Day, returned with dignity: “It’s not a thing one cares to leave about.”
“I should think not!” exclaimed Mrs. Plinth.
“It is a book, then?” said Miss Van Vluyck.
This again threw the company into disarray, and Mrs. Ballinger, with an
impatient sigh, rejoined: “Why—there is a book—naturally ...”
“Then why did Miss Glyde call it a religion?”
Laura Glyde started up. “A religion? I never—”

“Yes, you did,” Miss Van Vluyck insisted; “you spoke of rites; and Mrs.
Plinth said it was a custom.”
Miss Glyde was evidently making a desperate effort to recall her statement;
but accuracy of detail was not her strongest point. At length she began in a
deep murmur: “Surely they used to do something of the kind at the Eleusinian
mysteries—”
“Oh—” said Miss Van Vluyck, on the verge of disapproval; and Mrs. Plinth
protested: “I understood there was to be no indelicacy!”
Mrs. Ballinger could not control her irritation. “Really, it is too bad that we
should not be able to talk the matter over quietly among ourselves. Personally,
I think that if one goes into Xingu at all—”
“Oh, so do I!” cried Miss Glyde.
“And I don’t see how one can avoid doing so, if one wishes to keep up with
the Thought of the Day—”
Mrs. Leveret uttered an exclamation of relief. “There—that’s it!” she
interposed.
“What’s it?” the President took her up.
“Why—its a—a Thought: I mean a philosophy.”
This seemed to bring a certain relief to Mrs. Ballinger and Laura Glyde, but
Miss Van Vluyck said: “Excuse me if I tell you that you’re all mistaken.
Xingu happens to be a language.”
“A language!” the Lunch Club cried.
“Certainly. Don’t you remember Fanny Roby’s saying that there were
several branches, and that some were hard to trace? What could that apply to
but dialects?”
Mrs. Ballinger could no longer restrain a contemptuous laugh. “Really, if
the Lunch Club has reached such a pass that it has to go to Fanny Roby for
instruction on a subject like Xingu, it had almost better cease to exist!”
“It’s really her fault for not being clearer,” Laura Glyde put in.
“Oh, clearness and Fanny Roby!” Mrs. Ballinger shrugged. “I daresay we
shall find she was mistaken on almost every point.”
“Why not look it up?” said Mrs. Plinth.
As a rule this recurrent suggestion of Mrs. Plinth’s was ignored in the heat
of discussion, and only resorted to afterward in the privacy of each member’s
home. But on the present occasion the desire to ascribe their own confusion of

thought to the vague and contradictory nature of Mrs. Roby’s statements
caused the members of the Lunch Club to utter a collective demand for a
book of reference.
At this point the production of her treasured volume gave Mrs. Leveret, for
a moment, the unusual experience of occupying the centre front; but she was
not able to hold it long, for Appropriate Allusions contained no mention of
Xingu.
“Oh, that’s not the kind of thing we want!” exclaimed Miss Van Vluyck.
She cast a disparaging glance over Mrs. Ballinger’s assortment of literature,
and added impatiently: “Haven’t you any useful books?”
“Of course I have,” replied Mrs. Ballinger indignantly; “I keep them in my
husband’s dressing-room.”
From this region, after some difficulty and delay, the parlour-maid produced
the W-Z volume of an Encyclopaedia and, in deference to the fact that the
demand for it had come from Miss Van Vluyck, laid the ponderous tome
before her.
There was a moment of painful suspense while Miss Van Vluyck rubbed her
spectacles, adjusted them, and turned to Z; and a murmur of surprise when
she said: “It isn’t here.”
“I suppose,” said Mrs. Plinth, “it’s not fit to be put in a book of reference.”
“Oh, nonsense!” exclaimed Mrs. Ballinger. “Try X.”
Miss Van Vluyck turned back through the volume, peering short-sightedly
up and down the pages, till she came to a stop and remained motionless, like a
dog on a point.
“Well, have you found it?” Mrs. Ballinger enquired after a considerable
delay.
“Yes. I’ve found it,” said Miss Van Vluyck in a queer voice.
Mrs. Plinth hastily interposed: “I beg you won’t read it aloud if there’s
anything offensive.”
Miss Van Vluyck, without answering, continued her silent scrutiny.
“Well, what is it?” exclaimed Laura Glyde excitedly.
“Do tell us!” urged Mrs. Leveret, feeling that she would have something
awful to tell her sister.
Miss Van Vluyck pushed the volume aside and turned slowly toward the
expectant group.

“It’s a river.”
“A river?”
“Yes: in Brazil. Isn’t that where she’s been living?”
“Who? Fanny Roby? Oh, but you must be mistaken. You’ve been reading
the wrong thing,” Mrs. Ballinger exclaimed, leaning over her to seize the
volume.
“It’s the only Xingu in the Encyclopaedia; and she has been living in
Brazil,” Miss Van Vluyck persisted.
“Yes: her brother has a consulship there,” Mrs. Leveret interposed.
“But it’s too ridiculous! I—we—why we all remember studying Xingu last
year—or the year before last,” Mrs. Ballinger stammered.
“I thought I did when you said so,” Laura Glyde avowed.
“I said so?” cried Mrs. Ballinger.
“Yes. You said it had crowded everything else out of your mind.”
“Well you said it had changed your whole life!”
“For that matter, Miss Van Vluyck said she had never grudged the time
she’d given it.”
Mrs. Plinth interposed: “I made it clear that I knew nothing whatever of the
original.”
Mrs. Ballinger broke off the dispute with a groan. “Oh, what does it all
matter if she’s been making fools of us? I believe Miss Van Vluyck’s right—
she was talking of the river all the while!”
“How could she? It’s too preposterous,” Miss Glyde exclaimed.
“Listen.” Miss Van Vluyck had repossessed herself of the Encyclopaedia,
and restored her spectacles to a nose reddened by excitement. “ ‘The Xingu,
one of the principal rivers of Brazil, rises on the plateau of Mato Grosso, and
flows in a northerly direction for a length of no less than one thousand one
hundred and eighteen miles, entering the Amazon near the mouth of the latter
river. The upper course of the Xingu is auriferous and fed by numerous
branches. Its source was first discovered in 1884 by the German explorer von
den Steinen, after a difficult and dangerous expedition through a region
inhabited by tribes still in the Stone Age of culture.’”
The ladies received this communication in a state of stupefied silence from
which Mrs. Leveret was the first to rally. “She certainly did speak of its
having branches.”

The word seemed to snap the last thread of their incredulity. “And of its
great length,” gasped Mrs. Ballinger.
“She said it was awfully deep, and you couldn’t skip—you just had to wade
through,” Miss Glyde added.
The idea worked its way more slowly through Mrs. Plinth’s compact
resistances. “How could there be anything improper about a river?” she
enquired.
“Improper?”
“Why, what she said about the source—that it was corrupt?”
“Not corrupt, but hard to get at,” Laura Glyde corrected. “Some one who’d
been there had told her so. I daresay it was the explorer himself—doesn’t it
say the expedition was dangerous?”
“ ‘Difficult and dangerous,’ ” read Miss Van Vluyck.
Mrs. Ballinger pressed her hands to her throbbing temples. “There’s nothing
she said that wouldn’t apply to a river—to this river!” She swung about
excitedly to the other members. “Why, do you remember her telling us that
she hadn’t read ‘The Supreme Instant’ because she’d taken it on a boating
party while she was staying with her brother, and some one had ’shied’ it
overboard—‘shied’ of course was her own expression.”
The ladies breathlessly signified that the expression had not escaped them.
“Well—and then didn’t she tell Osric Dane that one of her books was
simply saturated with Xingu? Of course it was, if one of Mrs. Roby’s rowdy
friends had thrown it into the river!”
This surprising reconstruction of the scene in which they had just
participated left the members of the Lunch Club inarticulate. At length, Mrs.
Plinth, after visibly labouring with the problem, said in a heavy tone: “Osric
Dane was taken in too.”
Mrs. Leveret took courage at this. “Perhaps that’s what Mrs. Roby did it for.
She said Osric Dane was a brute, and she may have wanted to give her a
lesson.”
Miss Van Vluyck frowned. “It was hardly worth while to do it at our
expense.”
“At least,” said Miss Glyde with a touch of bitterness, “she succeeded in
interesting her, which was more than we did.”
“What chance had we?” rejoined Mrs. Ballinger. “Mrs. Roby monopolised
her from the first. And that, I’ve no doubt, was her purpose—to give Osric

Dane a false impression of her own standing in the club. She would hesitate at
nothing to attract attention: we all know how she took in poor Professor
Foreland.”
“She actually makes him give bridge-teas every Thursday,” Mrs. Leveret
piped up.
Laura Glyde struck her hands together. “Why, this is Thursday, and it’s
there she’s gone, of course; and taken Osric with her!”
“And they’re shrieking over us at this moment,” said Mrs. Ballinger
between her teeth.
This possibility seemed too preposterous to be admitted. “She would hardly
dare,” said Miss Van Vluyck, “confess the imposture to Osric Dane.”
“I’m not so sure: I thought I saw her make a sign as she left. If she hadn’t
made a sign, why should Osric Dane have rushed out after her?”
“Well, you know, we’d all been telling her how wonderful Xingu was, and
she said she wanted to find out more about it,” Mrs. Leveret said, with a tardy
impulse of justice to the absent.
This reminder, far from mitigating the wrath of the other members, gave it a
stronger impetus.
“Yes—and that’s exactly what they’re both laughing over now,” said Laura
Glyde ironically.
Mrs. Plinth stood up and gathered her expensive furs about her monumental
form. “I have no wish to criticise,” she said; “but unless the Lunch Club can
protect its members against the recurrence of such—such unbecoming scenes,
I for one—”
“Oh, so do I!” agreed Miss Glyde, rising also.
Miss Van Vluyck closed the Encyclopaedia and proceeded to button herself
into her jacket. “My time is really too valuable—” she began.
“I fancy we are all of one mind,” said Mrs. Ballinger, looking searchingly at
Mrs. Leveret, who looked at the others.
“I always deprecate anything like a scandal—” Mrs. Plinth continued.
“She has been the cause of one to-day!” exclaimed Miss Glyde.
Mrs. Leveret moaned: “I don’t see how she could!” and Miss Van Vluyck
said, picking up her note-book: “Some women stop at nothing.”
“—but if,” Mrs. Plinth took up her argument impressively, “anything of the
kind had happened in my house” (it never would have, her tone implied), “I

should have felt that I owed it to myself either to ask for Mrs. Roby’s
resignation—or to offer mine.”
“Oh, Mrs. Plinth—” gasped the Lunch Club.
“Fortunately for me,” Mrs. Plinth continued with an awful magnanimity,
“the matter was taken out of my hands by our President’s decision that the
right to entertain distinguished guests was a privilege vested in her office; and
I think the other members will agree that, as she was alone in this opinion, she
ought to be alone in deciding on the best way of effacing its—its really
deplorable consequences.”
A deep silence followed this outbreak of Mrs. Plinth’s long-stored
resentment.
“I don’t see why I should be expected to ask her to resign—” Mrs. Ballinger
at length began; but Laura Glyde turned back to remind her: “You know she
made you say that you’d got on swimmingly in Xingu.”
An ill-timed giggle escaped from Mrs. Leveret, and Mrs. Ballinger
energetically continued “—but you needn’t think for a moment that I’m afraid
to!”
The door of the drawing-room closed on the retreating backs of the Lunch
Club, and the President of that distinguished association, seating herself at her
writing-table, and pushing away a copy of “The Wings of Death” to make
room for her elbow, drew forth a sheet of the club’s note-paper, on which she
began to write: “My dear Mrs. Roby—”

ENDNOTES
Ethan Frome
1 (p. 8) Ethan Frome: Wharton began this novel in 1907 as an exercise in
writing in the French language. She took up the work again in the summer of
1910, when she wrote to a friend that she was “hard at work on a short novel”
(The Letters of Edith Wharton, p. 217; see “For Further Reading”). The work
first appeared serially in Scribner’s Magazine (August-October 1911). After
receiving advice from her friend Walter Berry, Wharton made additional
revisions for the book version, also published in 1911; she added an author’s
introduction for a 1922 edition.
2 (p. 8) Starkfield, Massachusetts: Wharton wrote to American art critic
Bernard Berenson (1865-1959) from Paris in January 1911, informing him of
her progress on the novel. Using the language of “mise-en-scène,” she
commented: “The scene is laid at Starkfield, Mass., and the nearest
cosmopolis is called Shadd’s Falls. It amuses me to do that decor in the rue de
Varenne” (Letters, p. 232). The village is a “stark field” on which the action
of the novel takes place.
3 (p. 9) Mrs. Zenobia—or Mrs. Zeena—Frome: Zeena Frome is named after
the third-century queen of Palmyra, who expanded her reign into the Roman
empire in the East until she was defeated in 272; her name has become
associated with ruthlessness and ambition. The name Zenobia appears in
several other works of fiction: William Ware’s popular novel Letters of Lucius
Piso, from Palmyra (1837), later titled Zenobia, contrasted Roman values and
those of the East; the passionate Zenobia in Hawthorne’s The Blithedale
Romance (1852) dies by drowning herself.
4 (p. 19) “Tt’s like being in an exhausted receiver”: An exhausted receiver is
a type of vessel, as that used with an air pump, from which the air has been
withdrawn. In other words, Frome is thinking of a vessel of which the interior
is a vacuum. Drawn from the world of science, this simile, like others in the
novel, suggests drained energy or expended resources.
5 (p. 19) a technological college at Worcester: The name of this technical
school is perhaps imprecise: The Worcester County Free Institute of Industrial
Science, founded by John Boynton in 1865, was sometimes known as the
Scientific School, the School of Industrial Science, the Technical School, the
Worcester Free Institute, and, locally, “the Tech”; in July 1887 the school’s
name was changed to Worcester Polytechnic Institute. (See Mildred McClary

Tymeson, Two Towers: The Story of Worcester Tech 1865-2965, Worcester
Polytechnic Institute, 1965.)
6 (p. 21) The musicians hurried to their instruments, the dancers ... fell into
line: Some critics have suggested that a dance would be an unlikely event in a
New England Congregationalist meetinghouse during the early twentieth
century; but this activity is what Wharton refers to as Mattie’s opportunity for
“some chance of amusement” (p. 22) amidst the drudgery of her household
work.
7 (p. 36) She could... recite “Curfew shall not ring to-night,” and play “The
Lost Chord”: “Curfew Must Not Ring Tonight,” a ballad by American poet
Rose Hartwick Thorpe (1850-1939), was published in a Detroit newspaper in
1867 and subsequently was copied in various publications around the country;
an illustrated edition was published in 1882. The melodramatic poem tells
how a woman tries to save her lover at his execution by clinging to the
clapper of a bell. “The Lost Chord” is another sentimental poem, written by
Adelaide Anne Procter (1825-1864) and set to music by English composer Sir
Arthur Sullivan (1842-1900). Wharton also refers to “The Lost Chord” in her
earlier short story “A Cup of Cold Water,” which appeared in The Greater
Inclination (1899).
8 (p. 37) Jotham Powell: Jotham is an Old Testament name; it reflects the
legacy of Puritanism in New England.
9 (p. 37) He had scrambled up on the logs: Because Frome operates a saw-
mill, one critic has suggested that here Wharton should have used “boards”
rather than “logs.” At other points in the novel she refers to a shipment of
lumber.
10 (p. 42) his period of study at Worcester: Frome associates Worcester with
“fellows doing things,” with a wider world of “lectures and big libraries” (p.
42). As a midsize town in central Massachusetts that lacked a navigable body
of water, waterpower, and raw materials, Worcester may seem an unlikely
candidate as an industrial center. After the Civil War, however, the city’s
extensive railroad connections made its products—paper, wire, textiles, boots,
shoes, and leather belting—accessible to new markets. Between 1820 and
1850 the town’s population multiplied nearly five times, and by 1870 it had
doubled again. As the spread of the railroad transformed the area’s economy,
the most striking feature of the social landscape was a sharper division
between city and country towns—with the smaller outlying towns losing
numbers as well as vitality. Wharton seems sensitive to these changes in
noting that the railroad made the Frome farm seem even more remote and

isolated. As Ethan notes, “We’re kinder side-tracked here now, ... but there
was considerable passing before the railroad was carried through to the
Flats.... But after the trains begun running nobody ever come by here to speak
of” (p. 17). Wharton also mentions Worcester in her 1917 novel Summer.
11 (p. 46) ETHAN FROME AND ENDURANCE HIS WIFE: It is interesting
to note here that the Hebrew word ‘eythan, or ethan, means permanent, or
enduring; there are several Old Testament Ethans.
12 (p. 87-93) They had reached the top of School House Hill.... There was a
last instant when the air shot past him like millions of fiery wires; and then
the elm: In the novel, the name of the sledding hill—School House Hill—is
symbolic. The sledding accident described here may be traced to a real-life
event: In March 1904, five teenagers from Lenox High School had been
involved in a disastrous sledding accident in which their sled crashed into a
lamppost at the bottom of the hill. One of the teenagers died; three suffered
serious injuries and, in one case, permanent lameness.
“The Pretext”
1 (p. 101) The Pretext: “The Pretext” appeared in Scribner’s Magazine
(August 1908) before being collected in The Hermit and the Wild Woman and
Other Stories (1908). Note 10 below gives more about the genesis of the story
(the information is provided later to avoid giving away key elements of the
plot).
2 (p. 103) every old-fashioned house in Wentworth: The old-fashioned
houses, the area’s venerable and inward-turning traditions, and self-conscious
“tone” of this college setting seem to suggest a town like Amherst or
Williamstown, Massachusetts.
3 (p. 107) to be accused of looking “New Yorky!”: Wharton here has some
good fun by contrasting conservative New England tastes in demeanor and
dress with those of the New Yorker, Miss Brant. The contrasting values of the
two areas are suggested by the title of a chapter in Wharton’s autobiography,
A Backward Glance, “New York and the Mount,” in which she noted: “It was
not until I went to Boston on my marriage that I found myself in a community
of wealthy and sedentary people seemingly too lacking in intellectual
curiosity to have any desire to see the world. I have always been perplexed by
the incuriosity of New England with regard to the rest of the world” (pp. 61-
62).
4 (p. 108) In a world without traditions ... such little expiring centres of
prejudice and precedent make an irresistible appeal to those instincts for

which a democracy has neglected to provide: Although Wharton pokes gentle
fun at tradition-bound Wentworth, she notes in A Backward Glance that the
values and precedents of her parents’ generation—education, good manners,
integrity in private and business affairs—faced challenges in the more open,
democratic society that her generation confronted. In parts of “The Pretext,”
Mrs. Ransom seems to reflect Wharton’s views.
5 (p. 111) Some one in the family had “asked for the Chiltern Hundreds”:
“Hundred” was a term used to describe a division of an English county, in this
case of the Chiltern Hills, a large chalk escarpment in southern England, most
prominent in the county of Buckinghamshire. Because members of
Parliament were not allowed to resign their seat, those wishing to resign
applied for one of several paid positions under the British Crown that would
disqual ifv them from serving. Two such positions were Steward and Bailiff
of the three Chiltern Hundreds of Stoke, Desborough, and Burnham and of
the Manor of Northstead.
6 (p. 111) Elder Brother of the Trinity House: Trinity House (formed as the
Trinity House Corporation in 1514) performs several functions: It is the
general light-house authority for England, Wales, the Channel Islands, and
Gibraltar; a deep-sea pilotage authority; and a charitable organization for the
safety, welfare, and training of mariners. The Corporation is led by a Court of
Elder Brethren under the Master (the duke of Edinburgh).
7 (p. 111) some one was in command at Devonport: Devonport, in
southwestern England, was the dockyard for the Royal Navy; its origins date
back to 1691. In outlining the political, military, naval, and educational
connections of the Dawnish family, Wharton emphasizes the young man’s
social pedigree, carrying a host of associations that contrast with “the Ransom
situation at Wentworth,” which was as “featureless as the top-shelf of a dark
closet” (pp. 110-111).
8 (p. 114) the Library cupola assumed a Bramantesque grace: Donato
Bramante (1444-1514) was an influential Italian architect and painter whose
buildings in Rome are considered the most characteristic examples of High
Renaissance architectural style. His early work was picturesque and
decorative; his later work had Gothic touches.
9 (p. 126) “The longitudinal arches of Lincoln have an approximately
elliptical form”: The Lincoln Cathedral, in Lincolnshire, England, was built
in 1092 and, after a damaging fire and then an earthquake, reconstructed
beginning in 1192. Rebuilt in the Gothic style, the cathedral, with its pointed
arches and ribbed vaults, is one of the most imposing Gothic structures in

England.
10 (p. 132) “a convex curve to the surface of the vaulting conoid”: In January
1908 Henry James wrote to Wharton about a petite donnée (small gift): The
incident of a young Englishman attending Harvard, who had defied family
wishes and fallen in love with the wife of a professor. In his letter, James
turned the idea of the story over to Wharton to use as she saw fit. According
to their imagined resolution, an English relative would confront the
professor’s wife, a middle-aged woman, with the news that the young man
had used her as a “pretext” for breaking an engagement with a woman back in
England (Henry James and Edith Wharton: Letters: 1900-1915, pp. 87-88). In
Edith Wharton and Henry James: The Story of Their Friendship (George
Braziller, 1965), author Millicent Bell identifies the character Guy Dawnish
as John Pollock, who attended Harvard Law School from 1903 to 1904.
According to Bell, Wharton brings English values and cultural traits into the
story via her characterization of Dawnish, but makes the story uniquely her
own rather than a facile imitation of James’s idea.
“Afterward ”
1 (p. 133) Afterward: “Afterward” was published in Century Magazine
(January 1910) before being collected in Tales of Men and Ghosts (1910).
2 (p. 135) Dorsetshire: Dorsetshire, known today as Dorset, is a county in the
south of England; it was part of the “Old West Saxons,” known as Wessex,
the setting for novels by Thomas Hardy (1840-1928).
3 (p. 137) Mary Boyne, abruptly exiled from New York by her husband’s
business, had endured for nearly fourteen years the soul-deadening ugliness
of a Middle Western town: Just as in Ethan Frome Wharton notes the cultural
deprivation of parts of New England, in this story Mary Boyne notes the
“soul-deadening” fourteen years she endured in the Midwest, cut off from
America’s cultural centers.
4 (p. 138) waiting in the library for the lamps to come, she rose from her seat
and stood among the shadows of the hearth: Several key scenes in Wharton’s
supernatural fiction occur in a library. A library, for example, is the setting for
the telling of ghostly tales in her short story “The Eyes” (1910). Some critics
have suggested that this setting intrigued Wharton because of the importance
of her father’s library during her formative years. As she noted in A Backward
Glance, “The old New York to which I came back as a little girl meant to me
chiefly my father’s library.” The library “had a leading share in my growth,”
and “the library calls me back” (p. 64).

5 (p. 163) “I guess it’s what the scientists call the survival of the fittest”: The
phrase “survival of the fittest” derives from English naturalist Charles
Darwin’s theory of natural selection; it was presumably coined by English
philosopher Herbert Spencer (1820-1903). Some social Darwinists applied
Darwin’s scientific ideas to the social and business world, attempting to
account for the advantages the strong appear to have over the weak. Wharton
credited her friend Egerton Winthrop with introducing her to “the wonder-
world of nineteenth-century science,” as she called it in A Backward Glance
(p. 94). In addition to Darwin’s On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural
Selection (1859), Wharton read the works of Spencer, English naturalist
Alfred Russel Wallace (1823-1913), and English biologist Thomas Henry
Huxley (1825-1895).
“The Legend”
1 (p. 169) The Legend: “The Legend” was published in Scribner’s Magazine
(March 1910) before it was collected in Tales of Men and Ghosts (1910).
2 (p. 193) the Strand: This British periodical was perhaps best known as the
publisher of the detective fiction of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle (1859-1930),
most notably his Sherlock Holmes stories, the first of which appeared in July
1891. The periodical was founded in 1891 by Sir George Newnes (1851-
1910).
“Xingu”
1 (p. 201) Xingu: “Xingu” was first published in Scribner’s Magazine
(December 1911) before being collected in Xingu, and Other Stories (1916).
Wharton noted that most of the stories in that collection were composed
before the outbreak of World War I.
2 (p. 203) Hillbridge: Hillbridge is a fictional university town Wharton used
in an earlier story, “The Recovery” (1901), as well as in other works.
3 (p. 205) Brazil: Xingu is in fact a river in Brazil. Wharton may have gotten
information about this tributary of the Amazon from Henry James, whose
brother William once participated in a scientific expedition to Brazil.
4 (p. 205) she had been so absorbed in a novel of Trollope’s: Wharton
enjoyed the fiction of English novelist Anthony Trollope (1815-1882),
especially in her later years. Mrs. Roby is amused by Trollope, while the self-
conscious and pretentious members of the Lunch Club believe literature has
other aims: to elevate and to instruct.
5 (p. 206) “as Apelles, in representing the sacrifice of Iphigenia, veiled the
face of Agamemnon”: The celebrated Greek painter Apelles (c.330 B.C.)

rendered mythological stories in his paintings; but it was another painter of
ancient Greece, Timanthes (c.400 B.C.), whose Sacrifice of Iphigenia
portrayed the legend of Agamemnon’s sacrifice of his daughter Iphigenia. In
the painting Timanthes veiled Agamemnon’s face, choosing not to portray his
emotions; the “veil of Timanthes” has become synonymous with emotional
restraint.
6 (p. 207) “which has attracted more attention among thoughtful people than
any novel since ’Robert Elsmere’ ”: Robert Elsmere (1888) was a popular
spiritual romance by English novelist Mrs. Humphry Ward. Wharton visited
Ward’s English estate in the summer of 1909.
7 (p. 207) “It reminded me when I read it of Prince Rupert’s manière noire”:
Manière noire is French for “dark manner.” Ruprecht of Pfalz (1619-1682),
known as Prince Rupert, Count Palatine of the Rhine, was a general and an
artist; he was instrumental in bringing the art of mezzotint portraiture to
England. His The Executioner’s Head, better known as “The Little
Executioner,” is perhaps his most celebrated work.
8 (p. 208) Canst thou draw out leviathan with a hook?: The quotation comes
from the Bible, Job 41:1-2 (King James Version). The full passage reads:
“Canst thou draw out leviathan with an hook? Or his tongue with a cord
which thou lettest down? Canst thou put an hook into his nose? Or bore his
jaw through with a thorn?”
9 (p. 215) “It’s very long”: Wharton here begins a series of puns on Xingu,
which the club members, with the exception of the playful Mrs. Roby,
interpret as some kind of profound and perhaps even dangerous philosophy.

COMMENTS & QUESTIONS
In this section, we aim to provide the reader with an array of perspectives on
the text, as well as questions that challenge those perspectives. The
commentary has been culled from sources as diverse as reviews
contemporaneous with the works, letters written by the author, literary
criticism of later generations, and appreciations written throughout the
works’ history. Following the commentary, a series of questions seeks to filter
Edith Wharton’s Ethan Frome and Selected Stories through a variety of points
of view and bring about a richer understanding of these enduring works.
Comments
THE NEW YORK TIMES SATURDAY REVIEW OF BOOKS
In “The Pretext” ... we have a bit of pattern weaving of considerable
intricacy and of balanced and harmonious design. There are half a dozen
possible answers to the suggested question, but the construction of the story is
consistent and firm. The characters are clearly seen and produce upon us the
effect they would produce in life. There is, perhaps, too obvious a denigration
of the narrow setting—there have been pictures of narrower and colder
aspects of our American scene that have managed to retain their local charm
without the application on the part of their historian of a flattering coat of rose
color; but the painter of human character is only rarely as competent a
portraitist of places, and Mrs. Wharton is above all a delineator of character.
—October 3, 1908
LOUISE COLLIER WILLCOX
There is a certain inexorableness about Mrs. Wharton, as if she herself were
constitutionally opposed to happiness, as if she were somewhat compelled to
interpret life in terms of pain. Hence her beautifully told but somber tales are
so unrelieved, fate in them is so persistently adverse, that they are sometimes
not quite convincing. For after all, what men account as Fate does sometimes
smile, and pain is pain by contrast with joy. But this particular story of three
people, Ethan Frome, his wife Zeena, and Mattie Silver, is so swift, direct,
and inevitable that it commands belief. The man, Ethan Frome, an

undeveloped idealist, marrying, not for love, but because of feminine
proximity and an instinctive recoil from loneliness, then finding beside him
his fitting counterpart; the mutual happiness so wan and brief, the swift end,
and then the long twilight of that truest heroism—the heroism of endurance—
this finely self-consistent story takes firm hold of mind and imagination. And
it is told, of course, with all Mrs. Wharton’s rare skill. The forcible right
words, like apples of gold in frames of silver, are all here. The seeing and
perceiving eye and the divining mind, with all their complexities of
observation and penetration, have opened up for their fortunate possessor
another field in which her hand seems as sure and certain as in the more urban
life she usually portrays, and in the more sophisticated people she usually sets
before us.
—from the North American Review (January 1912)
FRANCES HACKETT
“Xingu” is perhaps the cleverest of these stories. It is also the least valuably
perceptive. A satire on the excessive seriousness, the pretentiousness, the false
zealotry of a small American “culture” club, it goes rather too far in an
acrimonious caricature of the women as human beings. Mrs. Wharton’s acid
bites fairly into their idiocy as the pursuers of culture, it scarifies them too
deeply in their social character. The Laura Glyde and Mrs. Plinth and Mrs.
Leveret of real life would be equally insufferable about books, but Mrs.
Wharton’s cold dislike for their natures is quite unjustified. It is in dealing
with such women as these, women who if anything would err on the side of
amiability and whose main mistake is to take too seriously the obligations
imposed on them by a culture not native, that Mrs. Wharton becomes frigidly
conventional. Her Mrs. Plinths and Mrs. Leverets are misjudged from the
vantage point of Lenox or Tuxedo, or wherever it is that women do not allow
even their illiteracy to detract from their self-confidence.
—from the New Republic (February 10, 1917)
BLANCHE COLTON WILLIAMS
Ethan Frome has indisputable claim to rank as the greatest short story in
America. Its close unity, its three main characters, its Greek exaltation of Fate
as supreme ruler of man and his affairs, its circumscription of place, and
more, lend to it the salient marks of the brief fictive form, though its length
places it in the novelette class.
—from Our Short Story Writers (1920)

EDITH WHARTON
It was not until I wrote “Ethan Frome” that I suddenly felt the artisan’s full
control of his implements. When “Ethan Frome” first appeared I was severely
criticized by the reviewers for what was considered the clumsy structure of
the tale. I had pondered long on this structure, had felt its peculiar difficulties,
and possible awkwardness, but could think of no alternative which would
serve as well in the given case; and though I am far from thinking “Ethan
Frome” my best novel, and am bored and even exasperated when I am told
that it is, I am still sure that its structure is not its weak point.
—from A Backward Glance (1934)
CARL VAN DOREN
From the first [Edith Wharton] had had a satirical flair which at times gave
her—as in her short story Xingu—the flash and glitter, and the agreeable
artificiality, of polite comedy. The many futile women whom she enjoyed
ridiculing belong nearly as much to the menagerie of the satirist as to the
novelist’s gallery. In these moments of satire she indicated her own
disposition: her impatience with stupidity and affectation and muddy
confusion of mind and purpose; her dislike of dinginess; her toleration of
arrogance when well-bred; her little concern with the sturdy or burly or
homely, or with broad laughter. She was lucid and detached. Her self-
possession held critics, and readers, at arm’s length, somewhat as her chosen
circles hold the barbarians. No doubt she assigned to decorum a larger power
than it often exercises, even in such societies as she wrote about. Decorum is
binding upon those who accept it, but not upon passionate or logical natures,
who treat it with violence or neglect; neither does it bind those who stand too
surely to be shaken. The coils of circumstance and the pitfalls of inevitability
with which Mrs. Wharton beset the careers of her characters were in part an
illusion deftly employed for their effect. She multiplied them as romancers
multiply adventures.
She notably did this in Ethan Frome, a short novel often singled out as her
best work though she herself did not consider it that. She had begun it as a
book to be written in French, some years before she wrote it over and
completed it in English. The scene was laid not in her own world but in rural
New England, near Lenox in the Berkshires where she had lived in summer.
While she knew little at first-hand about people like Ethan Frome, his nagging
wife Zenobia, and Mattie Silver whom he loves, Edith Wharton had felt some
resemblance between their community and hers. If a metropolis had its hard

decorum, so had a village. And in a village there was the further compulsion
of a helpless poverty which could bind feet and wings, and dull life to an
appalling dinginess.
—from The American Novel (1940)
Questions about Ethan Frome
1. What would you say is the underlying cause of the tragedy in Ethan
Frome? Is it poverty? The New England frame of mind? Zeena’s
personality? Sexual desire? The cultural and social and material vacuum
in which the principal characters live?
2. Does Mattie’s decision that she and Ethan should commit suicide seem
plausible? Is it foreshadowed by anything earlier in the novel?
3. What is a just view of Ethan? Is he weak? Repressed? Should he simply
have run off with Mattie? Should he have been less indulgent of Zeena’s
self-pity and asserted himself?
4. Is this novel too grim to be enjoyed? Or is there a way in which
distressing material can be made to give aesthetic pleasure?

FOR FURTHER READING
Biographies and Related Materials
Benstock, Shari. No Gifts from Chance: A Biography of Edith Wharton. New
York: Scribner‘s, 1994.
Dwight, Eleanor. Edith Wharton: An Extraordinary Life. New York: Harry N.
Abrams, 1994.
Henry James and Edith Wharton: Letters: 1900-1915. Edited by Lyall H.
Powers. New York: Scribner‘s, 1990.
Lewis, R. W. B. Edith Wharton: A Biography. New York: Harper and Row,
1975.
Lubbock, Percy. Portrait of Edith Wharton. New York: Appleton-Century,
1947.
Wharton, Edith. A Backward Glance. New York: Appleton-Century, 1934.
. The Letters of Edith Wharton. Edited by R. W. B. Lewis and Nancy Lewis.
New York: Scribner‘s, 1988.
Other Resources
Davis, Owen, and Donald Davis. Ethan Frome: A Dramatization of Edith
Wharton’s Novel. Foreword by Edith Wharton. New York: Scribner‘s, 1936.
Wharton, Edith. “Life and I.” In Edith Wharton: Novellas and Other Writings.
Edited by Cynthia Griffin Wolff. New York: Library of America, 1990, pp.
1,069-1,096.
Selected Critical Studies
Ammons, Elizabeth. Edith Wharton’s Argument with America. Athens:
University of Georgia Press, 1980.
Nevius, Blake. Edith Wharton: A Study of Her Fiction. Berkeley: University
of California Press, 1953.
—, ed. Edith Wharton’s Ethan Frome : The Story, with Sources and
Commentary. New York: Scribner‘s, 1968.

Singley, Carol J. Edith Wharton: Matters of Mind and Spirit. New York and
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1995.
, ed. A Historical Guide to Edith Wharton. New York and Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 2003.
White, Barbara A. Edith Wharton: A Study of the Short Fiction. New York:
Twayne Publishers, 1991.
, ed. Wharton’s New England: Seven Stories and Ethan Frome. Hanover, NH:
University Press of New England, 1995.
Wolff, Cynthia Griffin. A Feast of Words: The Triumph of Edith Wharton.
New York: Oxford University Press, 1977. Revised edition: Reading, MA:
Addison-Wesley, 1995.

a
Lamp in which oil is pumped through the wick tube by clockwork; named
after French inventor Bertrand Carcel (1750-1812).
b
Set of columns surrounding a building or enclosing a court.
c
Woman’s head scarf, made of lace or crochet.
d
American country dance in which partners face each other in parallel lines.
e
Town in southwestern Connecticut with a population of about 11,000 in the
1880s.
f
Orion: constellation of stars east of the constellation Taurus on the equator;
Alde baran : red star of the first magnitude in Taurus; the Pleiades: cluster of
stars in Taurus.
g
Small, one-horse sleigh.
h
City in western Massachusetts, located in the Connecticut River Valley at the
hub of regional routes between New York and Boston.
i
Deciduous, thick-stemmed climbing plant (Clematis vitalba) that often grows
on hedges, fences, and trellises.
j
Bring about an action.
k
Star of the constellation Canis Major, also called the Dog Star; the brightest
star in the sky.
l
Queen’s Counsel; barrister (attorney) who serves as counsel to the queen.
m

Eyeglasses clipped to the nose by a spring.
n
Misunderstood wife (French).
o
Hairstyle (French).
p
Codes regulating standards of dress.
q
Area of southern England; home to such historic sites as Stonehenge and
Salisbury Cathedral.
r
In a style associated with the reign of King James I, who ruled Great Britain
from 1603 to 1625.
s
Moving a square, flat-bottomed boat, called a punt, with a long pole.
t
Bell tower, usually freestanding, near a church.
u
Japanese hangings or scrolls made of silk or paper.
v
Rococo style of furniture named after English cabinetmaker Thomas
Chippendale (1718-1779).
w
Relating to the river Styx, principal river of the underworld in classical
mythology.
x
Cone-like shape.
y
Style of architecture that prevailed in England during the reign of the royal
house of Tudor (1485-1603).
z
Description (French).

aa
Windows divided by vertical bars.
ab
Hilly, treeless uplands.
ac
Vantage point.
ad
Relating to a style characteristic of the reigns of Kings George I, II, III, and
IV of England (1714-1830).
ae
Trained to grow flat against a wall or trellis.
af
Small house or cottage.
ag
Town in southern England.
ah
Monastic; relating to the order of Saint Benedict, founded c.530.
ai
Very dark or gloomy; the Cimmerians, described by the ancient Greek poet
Homer, were a legendary people living in a land of perpetual darkness.
aj
Let there be light (Latin).
ak
Cassiopeia: northern constellation named for Andromeda’s mother in classical
mythology; the Southern Cross: constellation whose four brightest stars form
the shape of a cross; visible only from the Southern Hemisphere.
al
In Greek mythology, Psyche is a princess loved by Cupid; often represented
as a butterfly, she is a symbol of the human soul. (In ancient Greece, the word
psyche meant both “butterfly” and “soul.”)
am
Out of whole cloth (French).

an
Work bv English philosopher Herbert Spencer (1820-1903).
ao
Karl Marx (1818-1883): German socialist philosopher; Henri-Louis Bergson
(1859-1941): French humanistic philosopher; “Confessions of St. Augustine”:
spiritual record of the fifth-century Church Father; Mendelism: theory of
heredity developed by Austrian scientist Gregor Mendel (1822-1884).
ap
William Wordsworth (1770-1850): English Romantic poet; Paul Verlaine
(1844-1896): French Symbolist poet.
aq
James A. Froude (1818-1894): writer and historian at Oxford University.