Dead Men Tell No Tales
and Other Stories
Emile Zola
Translated by Douglas Parmée
A.
womI

ALMA CLASSICS
an imprint of
ALMA BOOKS LTD
3 Castle Yard
Richmond
Surrey TW10 6TF
United Kingdom
www.almaclassics.com
The stories in this collection first published by Oxford University Press in the
volume The Attack on the Mill and Other Stories in 1969
A revised version of these stories first published by Alma Classics in 2009 in
the volume Dead Men Tell No Tales
Dead Men Tell No Tales and Other Stories first published by Alma Classics
in 2017
English Translation © Douglas Parmée, 1969, 2009, 2017
Extra material © Larry Duffy, 2008
Printed in the United Kingdom by CPI Group (UK) Ltd, Croydon CRO 4YY
ISBN: 978-1-84749-696-6
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in or
introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means
(electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise), without the
prior written permission of the publisher. This book is sold subject to the
condition that it shall not be resold, lent, hired out or otherwise circulated
without the express prior consent of the publisher.

Contents
Chronology
Dead Men Tell No Tales and Other Stories
Captain Burle
Coqueville on the Spree
Dead Men Tell No Tales
Shellfish for Monsieur Chabre
Notes
Extra Material
Emile Zola’s Life
Emile Zola’s Works
Select Bibliography

Digitized by the Internet Archive
in 2022 with funding from
Kahle/Austin Foundation
https://archive.org/details/deadmantellnotalO000zola

Chronology
1840 Emile Zola born on 2nd April, in Paris, of French mother and
Italian father.
1843 Family settles in Aix-en-Provence.
1847 Emile’s father dies.
1859 Zola twice fails school-leaving baccalauréat.
1861 Destitute in Paris. Zola obtains post in shop of newly-founded
firm of Hachette. Already writing poetry and short stories.
1864 In charge of Hachette’s publicity. Publishes first collection of
short stories, Contes a Ninon.
1865 Publication of first novel, La Confession de Claude. Liaison
with Gabrielle-Alexandrine Meley; leaves Hachette, and em-
barks on writing career, at first largely as a journalist (reviewer,
critic, short story and feature article writer).
1867 Favourable article on Manet’s painting. As friend of Cézanne,
frequents artistic circles, including many Impressionists. Pub-
lication of Thérése Raquin.
1870 Marries Mlle Meley. Publication in serial form of La Fortune
des Rougon, which becomes the first of the twenty-volume cycle
of novels concernintgh e Rougon-Macquart family, published
over the next twenty-three years. Takes refuge in Marseilles to
avoid invading Prussian army; later becomes Parliamentary
correspondent to French government, which had retreated to
Bordeaux.
1871 Returns briefly to Paris but leaves to avoid Commune uprising.
1874 Publication of Nouveaux contes a Ninon.
1875 Beginning of collaboration with St Petersburg periodical Vestnik
Evropy (European Messenger). Holiday in Saint-Aubin, on
Normandy coast.
1876 Holiday in Piriac (see note to ‘Shellfish for Monsieur Chabre’).
1877 Success of L’Assommoir, seventh volume of Rougon-Macquart
series, brings fame and financial security. Holiday in L’Estaque.
1878 Buys property in Médan, village on outskirts of Paris.

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
1880 Publication of Soirées de Médan. End of collaboration with
Vestnik Evropy.
1882 Publication in Francei n one volume of six of Zola’s Vestnik
Evropy stories, under collective title of Le Capitaine Burle.
1883 Publication in one volume of further six of Zola’s Vestnik
Evropy stories, under collective title of Nais Micoulin.
1885 Publication of Germinal, twelfthi n the Rougon-Macquart
series.
1888 Starts lifelong liaison with Jeanne Rozerot.
1889 Birth of Denise, daughter of Jeanne and Zola.
1891 Birth of Jacques, son of Jeanne and Zola.
1893 Le Docteur Pascal ends Rougon-Macquaserrite s
Mowe Extended trip to Italy.
1898 Publication of Zola’s article J’Accuse in Paris newspaper
in favour of Dreyfus leads him to take refuge in England to
avoid imprisonment. Writes his last story, ‘The Haunted House’
(Angeline).
1902 Death of Zola by asphyxiation in his Paris flat; suspicion that
his bedroom chimney may have been deliberately blocked.
vi

Dead Men Tell No Tales
and Other Stories

aay ¥
ae. - _ — : 7
ee ee
I> cle pe Cae i thee oi 2 a ee
| ait os alba wate emcee
s6at tc SS ee ia
: ee ee ee ee 7 a
: ine? Gare 6 (WG, Geriate@ ole Oe =
1) , Gee rd ecg, eet Fae Ds, =!
1, bs (co dean! wee Aadcrbmmkt wie
1 feoidnips asm - ..
; me, Nene of Ped ealtte 2 vind iesn “Eeh/ Sige et
—. aoe i
: oa oes Ven hy a A Bap @ es
ee eee eee an Te
._ ee be! e» i e 2
: 40 leo sa teeta ot Vier @ Spas,
i)

Captain Burle™
1
i WAS NINE O’CLOCK and the inhabitants of Vauchamp had just gone
to bed, leaving the little town in silence and darkness in the icy No-
vember rain. In the Rue des Récollets, one of the narrowest and most
deserted in the St Jean district, just one lighted window remained on
the third floor of an old house whose broken gutters were disgorging
torrents of water. Madame Burle was still awake and sitting beside her
meagre fire of vine stumps while her grandson Charles was doing his
homework in the dim light of a lamp.
The flat which she rented for one hundred and twenty francs a year
consisted of four enormous rooms, quite impossible to heat in winter.
Madame Burle slept in the largest of them; her son, the regimental
paymaster Captain Charles Burle, occupied the bedroom overlooking
the street next to the dining room, and young Charles slept in an iron
bedstead tucked away at the far end of the immense disused drawing
room with its peeling wallpaper. The few sticks of furniture belonging
to the captain and his mother, a solid mahogany Empire suite, dented
and battered by many moves from one garrison town to another, were
barely visible in the dim light which fell like a fine haze from the lofty
ceiling. The cold, hard, red-painted floor tiles were freezing to the feet,
for there were only a few odd squares of carpet in front of the chairs in
this icy room swept by piercing draughts from the warped doors and
window frames.
Madame Burle sat sunk in her yellow velvet armchair beside the
fireplace, her face cradled in her hands, looking at the final wisps of
smoke from a vine root with the vacant stare of an old woman living in
the past. She would spend whole days sitting like this, a tall, long-faced
figure whose thin lips never smiled. As the widow of a colonel who had
died just as he was about to be made a general, and the mother of a
captain, whom she had accompanied even throughout his campaigns,
she had become imbued with ideas of duty, honour and patriotism

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
which had turned her into an unbending old lady, as it were shrivelled
up by the harshness of strict military discipline. She rarely complained.
When her son had been widowed after five years of marriage, she had
undertaken her grandson’s upbringing as a matter of course, like a
sergeant sternly drilling his recruits. She ruled the child with a rod of
iron, never tolerating the slightest caprice or unruly behaviour, making
him work well into the night and staying up herself until midnight
to see that his homework was completed. Under this harsh regime,
Charles, who was a delicate, gentle little boy, was growing up pale and
wan; he had fine eyes but they always seemed unnaturally bright and
large.
One single thought was always turning over in Madame Burle’s mind
during her long periods of silent meditation: her son had let her down.
She was obsessed by this idea and she would continually go back in her
mind over her life, from the time of his birth, when she had seen him as
a future hero who would reach the highest rank, in a blaze of glory, to
the present narrow garrison life filled with the same dull, never-ending
routine, his decline into the post of a regimental paymaster captain,
from which he would never escape and in which he was becoming inert
and apathetic. And yet there had been a time, at the beginning, when
she had been proud of him: for a while she had been able to think that
her dream was coming true. Burle had come straight out of the crack
cavalry school of Saint-Cyr to distinguish himself by his gallantry at the
battle of Solferino,* capturing a whole enemy battery with a handful
of men. He was decorated, his heroism was reported in the papers and
he became known as one of the bravest men in the army. Then slowly
this hero had put on weight and become submerged in fat — relaxed,
contented, stout, and cowardly. By 1870, he had not gone beyond the
rank of captain. He was captured in his first skirmish and had returned
from Germany an angry man, swearing that they wouldn’t catch him
fighting again, it was all too stupid. Being incapable of learning any
other trade and so obliged to stay in the army, he had managed to obtain
a post as regimental paymaster, a niche, he said, where at least they’d let
him kick the bucket in peace. On the day this happened, Madame Burle
had felt her heart break. Her dream had come to an end. Since then she
had gritted her teeth and retreated implacably into her shell.
The wind was gusting down the Rue des Récollets and the windows
shuddered under the deluge of rain. The old woman looked up from

CAPTAIN BURLE + CHAPTER 1
the dying embers of the vine stocks to make sure that Charles was
not falling asleep over his Latin translation. This little lad of twelve
had become her last hope of finally achieving her dogged ambition
of making the name of Burle famous. At first she had loathed her
grandson with all the hatred she had felt for his mother, a little lace-
worker, pretty and delicate, whom the captain foolishly married when
she had resisted his frantic attempts to make her his mistress. When his
mother had died and his father had relapsed into a life of debauchery,
Madame Burle had pinned all her hopes on her poor, sickly little
grandson whom she was bringing up in such difficult circumstances.
She wanted him to be strong, for he was to become the hero which
Burle had failed to be, and so, in her cold, harsh way, she anxiously
watched over him as he grew up, drumming courage into his head and
feeling his limbs to test their strength. Little by little, blinded by her
passionate ambition, she had come to believe that here at last was the
man of the family. In fact, the child had a dreamy, tender nature and
felt a physical horror of army life, but, being a very quiet, obedient boy
and terrified of his grandmother, he repeated everything he was told
and seemed resigned to becoming a soldier.
Meanwhile Madame Burle had noticed that the translation was not
progressing very well. Bemused by the sound of the storm, Charles had
dropped off to sleep, pen in hand, with his eyes still fixed on the paper.
Her bony finger rapped sharply on the edge of the table and with a
start he began feverishly thumbing the pages of his dictionary. Still
without a word, the old woman began pulling the vine-stocks together
in a vain attempt to rekindle the blaze.
During the period when she had still believed in her son, she had
sacrificed all her savings and he had frittered away her meagre income
in riotous living, the nature of which she had never dared investigate
closely. Even now, he was ransacking the house and letting everything go
to rack and ruin: they were on the brink of destitution, the rooms were
stripped of furniture and hot meals a rare luxury. She never mentioned
such things to him: with her respect for discipline, he still remained the
master, the head of the house. Only sometimes she would shudder at
the thought that Burle might well, one day, do something foolish that
would prevent Charles from getting into the army.
As she stood up to fetch another vine branch from the kitchen, a
terrible squall hit the house, rattling the doors, wrenching off a shutter

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
and spilling a torrent of water from the broken gutters down onto
the windows. Above the din, she was surprised to hear the doorbell
ringing. Who could it be, at such a time and in such weather? Burle
never came home before midnight, if indeed he came home at all. She
opened up and an officer came in, soaked to the skin and swearing:
“Christ Almighty! What a foul night!”
It was the regimental adjutant Laguitte, a game old soldier who had
served under Colonel Burle in the good old days. Born and bred in
the barracks, he had risen, far more through courage than through
intelligence, to the rank of battalion commander, when, as the result
of a wound, a muscle contraction in his thigh had made him unfit for
active service and forced him to accept a post as adjutant. He even had
a slight limp, though you had to be careful not to tell him so to his face,
because he refused to admit the idea.
“It’s you, Major Laguitte,” exclaimed Madame Burle in surprise.
“Yes, blast it!” growled Laguitte. “And I must be a damned fool and
damned fond of you to be out in this damned rain... It’s not fit weather
to send a priest out in!”
He shook himself and his boots spread large puddles of water all
over the floor. He looked around.
“T absolutely must see Burle! Is he in bed already, the lazy hound?”
“No, he’s not home yet,” the old woman replied in her gruff voice.
Laguitte looked exasperated.
“What? Not come home?” he exclaimed angrily. “In that case, they
were having me on at that café of his, Mélanie’s, you know all about it,
don’t you? I go in and there’s this maid who laughs in my face and tells
me that the captain’s gone off to bed. Damn and blast it, I guessed as
much, I was itching to tug her ears!”
He calmed down and walked round the room, looking upset and in
two minds as to what to say next. Madame Burle was watching him
closely.
“Did you want to speak to him personally?” she asked eventually.
“Yes,” hemrephieds
“And I can’t pass on a message for you?”
“Now
She did not insist but she still stood watching the adjutant who
seemed unable to decide whether to leave or not. Finally, he burst out
again:

CAPTAIN BURLE » CHAPTER 1
“Ah well, can’t be helped, damn and blast it! Since I’m here, you
might as well know the truth, it’ll probably be better.”
And he sat down in front of the fireplace and stretched out his muddy
boots as if there had been a bright fire blazing there. Madame Burle
was just going back to her seat in the armchair when she noticed that,
overcome by sleep, Charles’s head had dropped onto the open pages
of his dictionary. The adjutant’s arrival had momentarily aroused him
and then, seeing that no one was paying any attention, he had been
unable to resist dropping off to sleep again. His grandmother was on
her way to give him a rap on his hands, all white and frail in the light
of the lamp, when Laguitte stopped her:
“Please don’t, let the little fellow sleep. It’s not very funny, he doesn’t
need to hear it.”
The old woman went back to her armchair. Silence fell. They both
looked at each other.
“Well, here goes,” said the adjutant at last, emphasizing his remark
with a vicious jerk of his chin, “this time that swine Burle has really
done it!”
Madame Burle did not flinch, although her face grew pale as she sat
up rigidly in her chair. The adjutant went on:
“ld been suspecting something all along. ’'d made up my mind to
tell you about it one day. Burle was spending too much and he had
an idiotic look on his face that worried me. But I never thought...
Damn and blast it! How stupid can you get to play a dirty trick like
that?”
He slapped his knee furiously again and again, speechless with
indignation.
“He’s been stealing?”
“You can’t imagine what it is... Just think... I never used to check,
myself, I passed all his accounts through. I merely signed at the bottom
of the page. You know what it’s like in the mess. Only when the annual
inspection was coming up, because of the colonel, who’s a bit of a
stickler, I used to say: ‘Watch your figures, old man, it’s me who’s got
to carry the can!’ And I didn’t worry at all... All the same, for the
last month or so, because he’d got such a queer look and people were
saying some rather nasty things, I began looking a bit more closely into
his accounts and going through his books. Everything seemed perfectly
in order to me, nothing wrong at all...”

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
He broke off, seized by such a burst of rage that he had to let off
steam straight away.
“Damn and blast it! It’s not the swindling that annoys me, it’s the
beastly way he’s behaved towards me! He’s made a bloody fool of me.
Madame Burle, do you realize?... Blast him! Does he think I’m an old
idiot?”
“So he’s been stealing?” his mother asked again.
“This evening,” the adjutant went on, somewhat more calmly, “I'd
just finished dinner when in comes Gagneux. You know Gagneux, the
butcher on the corner of the Place aux Herbes. And there’s another
damned scoundrel, too, who got the contract and then feeds our men
on old cows’ meat from God knows where! So I greet him like the dirty
dog he is and he proceeds to take the lid off the whole rotten business.
And what a business! Apparently Burle only ever gave him payment on
account, a real swindle, and such an unholy muddle that it’ll be the
devil’s own job to straighten it out. To cut a long story short, Burle
owes him two thousand francs and the butcher is talking of going to
spill the beans to the colonel if he doesn’t get his money... But the
worst thing of all is that that swine Burle, to land me in the soup,
used to give me a false receipt every week which he simply signed in
Gagneux’s name. Fancy playing a trick like that on an old friend like
me! Damn and blast the whole bloody thing!”
Laguitte stood up waving his fists in the air and then fell back again
in his chair.
“So he’s been stealing,” Madame Burle said again. “It was bound to
happen.”
Then, without a word of judgement or condemnation of her son,
she added simply:
“We haven’t got two thousand francs. We might have thirty francs
in the house.”
“T suspected that,’ i) said Laguitte. “And do you know where all the
money goes? It goes to Melanie, a trollop who’s driven Burle crazy...
Women! I said before that they’d be the ruination of him! I just don’t
know what’s wrong with that swine. He’s only five years younger than
me and he still can’t keep away from them, the randy old goat!”
There was another silence. Outside the rain was pouring down harder
than ever and in the sleeping little town you could hear the crash of
slates and chimney pots brought down by the gale.

CAPTAIN BURLE » CHAPTER 1
“Ah well,” said the adjutant, getting to his feet, “we shan’t settle
anything by sitting here talking... It was just to warn you. I must be
off.”
“What can we do?” asked the old woman in a low voice. “Is there
anyone we can approach?”
“Don’t be downhearted, we’ll just have to see. If only I had two
thousand francs of my own... But I’ve no money, as you know.”
He stopped short in embarrassment. He was an old bachelor, with no
wife or children, and he systematically drank all his pay, and anything
left over from his bills for absinthe* and brandy he lost at gambling.
With all that, a very honest man, on principle.
“Never mind,” he went on, standing in the doorway, “I’ll still go
along and rout out the old rascal at his lady-love’s. I’ll move heaven and
earth... Burle, the son of the Burle, condemned for theft! It’d be the
end of the world, it can’t be possible! ’'d sooner blow the whole place
up... So don’t worry, confound it all! It’s even more annoying for me!”
He gripped her hand tightly and disappeared into the shadow of the
staircase while she held up the lamp to light his way. When she had
put the lamp down on the table, she stood motionless for a moment
in the enormous bare and silent room and a flush of tenderness rose
to her cheeks as she looked pensively at Charles, still asleep with his
face resting on the pages of his dictionary: with his long fair hair and
pale complexion he looked like a little girl. But this tenderness which
softened her harsh, cold features lasted only a second before her face
set once more into its usual air of grim determination. Sharply, she
rapped the boy’s hand:
“Your translation, Charles!”
The lad woke up witha shiver and with a scared look began hurriedly
turning over the pages of his dictionary. At that very moment Laguitte,
slamming the street door behind him, was drenched from head to foot
with a downpour of rain from the gutter and his swearing could be
heard even above the storm. Then the only sound audible against the
pounding rain was the gentle scratch of Charles’s pen on the paper.
Madame Burle had gone back to her seat in front of the fireplace and
was sitting as she always sat every evening, as stiff as a ramrod, staring
at the dead embers of the fire, lost in her dogged obsession.

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
yh
ei HE CAFE DE PARIS, kept by the widow Madame Melanie Cartier,
stood in the Place du Palais, a large irregular square planted with
dusty oaks. In Vauchamp people would say: “Coming to Melanie’s?”
Here, at the end of the first room, quite a large one, there was a second
room, called the “sofa room”, which was very narrow, with imitation
leather upholstered sofas running all round the walls and four marble
tables standing in the corners, and it was here that Mélanie, leaving the
bar in the charge of her maid Phrosyne, would spend her evenings in
the company of a few “regulars”, an inner circle who were known in
the town as the “sofa-room gentlemen”. It was a hallmark: thereafter,
every mention of their names would evoke smiles in which condemna-
tion competed with secret envy.
Madame Cartier had been widowed at the age of twenty-five. Her
husband had been a wheelwright who had astounded Vauchamp
by taking over the Café de Paris on the death of an uncle, and one
fine morning he had brought her back from Montpellier, which
he visited every six months to lay in his supply of liqueurs. As part
of the equipment of setting up his business, he had taken a wife,
doubtless to his taste, who was prepossessing and likely to increase the
consumption of alcohol. No one ever discovered where he’d picked her
up, and indeed he didn’t actually marry her until after a six months’
trial period behind the bar. As a matter of fact, opinions on Mélanie
were divided: some said she was superb; others described her as bossy.
She was tall, with pronounced features and coarse hair which came
right down to her eyebrows. But nobody denied her ability to twist men
round her little finger. She had fine eyes and she used them shamelessly
to gaze at her “sofa-room gents” until they grew pale and amenable.
And rumour had it also that she was a fine figure of a woman: in the
Midi, that’s the sort of woman they like...
Cartier had died ina strange way. There was talk of a squabble between
the couple and of an abscess brought about by a kick in the stomach.
However that might be, Mélanie found herself very awkwardly placed,
for the cafe was not doing at all well. The wheelwright had squandered
his uncle’s money by drinking his own absinthe and spending lengthy
sessions at his own billiard table. For a while it looked as though she
would have to sell up. But she liked the life and for a lady, everything
10

CAPTAIN BURLE + CHAPTER 2
was laid on. She never needed more than a few customers and the front
room could remain empty. So all she did was to put white and gold
paper on the walls and new imitation leather on the sofas. First of
all she entertained a pharmacist in her newly decorated room; there
followed a spaghetti manufacturer, a solicitor and a retired magistrate.
And by these means the café remained open, although the waiter hardly
served twenty drinks a day. The authorities turned a blind eye as long
as the proprieties were observed; after all, a lot of respectable people
would have been compromised.
In the evening, half a dozen locals, men with modest private means,
would still come in for their game of dominoes in the big front room:
Cartier was dead and some queer goings-on were taking place in the
Café de Paris but they saw nothing and kept to their old habits. As the
waiter was proving superfluous, Mélanie got rid of him and now it was
Phrosyne who would light the single gaslight in the corner for their
game. Occasionally, attracted by the stories they had heard and egging
each other on “to go to Mélanie’s”, a gang of young men would burst
into the bar room, laughing loudly to hide their embarrassment. They
would be greeted with icy dignity; they rarely saw the proprietress or, if
she happened to be there, she overwhelmed them with her beauty and
her disdain, leaving them completely at a loss for words. She was far
too intelligent to forget herself and behave in any way foolishly. While
the main room remained in darkness, lit only in the corner where the
gentlemen of leisure were performing their ritual game of dominoes,
she would serve the sofa-room regulars herself: friendly but discreet,
she would occasionally give way to an impulse, if she felt so inclined, to
rest her arm on the shoulder of one of them to follow some particularly
neat play in their game of écarté.
One evening these gentlemen, who had grown to tolerate each
other’s presence, were disagreeably surprised to discover Captain Burle
ensconced on one of the sofas. He had, it seemed, come in that morning,
quite by chance, to have a glass of vermouth. Mélanie was alone and
they had chatted together. That evening, when he came back, Phrosyne
had shown him straight away into the small back room.
Two days later, Burle was the reigning monarch, without, however,
putting the pharmacist, the spaghetti manufacturer, the solicitor or the
retired magistrate to flight. The captain, a short, broad man, adored
tall women. In the regiment he was nicknamed Skirty because of his
11

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
constant womanizing, a taste he satisfied whenever and however he
could and all the more vigorously when there was an extra large morsel
to enjoy. Whenever the officers or even the ordinary soldiers saw some
great bag of flesh with incredibly opulent charms, a veritable giant
balloon of fat, whether she was dressed in fine clothes or in rags, they
would exclaim: “Just the job for Skirty!” Everything was grist to his
mill and in the barrack room of an evening, they all prophesied that it
would be the death of him. And so that “fine figure of a woman” took
him completely and irresistibly into her power; he sank without trace
into her capacious maw. It took him no longer than a fortnight to be
reduced to an amorous stupor, a fat little man drained dry, even though
he was still as fat as ever. His tiny eyes lost in his bloated face would
follow her everywhere she went, like the eyes of a beaten dog, and the
sight of that broad masculine face with its coarse bristly hair held him
in a constant ecstasy of delight: he could think of nothing else. For
fear that she might stop his rations, as he put it, he was prepared to
tolerate the presence of the “sofa-room gentlemen” and forked out the
last farthing of his pay. The situation was summed up by a sergeant:
“Skirty has found his hole and he’ll not budge.” A man as good as
dead!
It was nearly ten o’clock when Major Laguitte flung open the door of
the Café de Paris. Through the doorway, as the door slammed behind
him, you could catch a glimpse of the Place du Palais, pitch-dark and
like a mud lake bubbling under the pouring rain. Wet to the skin by now
and leaving a trail of water behind him, the adjutant made straight for
the bar where Phrosyne was sitting reading a novel. “So that’s the way
you make a fool of an officer, you bitch!” he shouted. “I ought to...”
And he swung his arm as though to give her a box on the ears that
would have sent her flying. The frightened little maid shrank back
while the domino players turned round to look, open-mouthed, unable
to understand what it was all about. But the adjutant wasted no time;
he pushed open the sofa-room door and went in at the very moment
that Melanie was charitably engaged in offering the captain his grog in
tiny spoonfuls, like a pet canary, That evening the only other customers
had been the retired magistrate and the pharmacist and they had both
left early, in a depressed mood. And as Mélanie needed three hundred
francs the following day, she was seizing the opportunity of wheedling
them out of the captain.
12

CAPTAIN BURLE + CHAPTER 2
“Come along luvvy duvvy... Give Mummy your little beaky-weaky...
It’s good, isn’t it, you naughty little boy...”
Flabby and goggle-eyed, the captain, purple in the face, was sucking
the spoon in a paroxysm of pleasure.
“Christ Almighty!” bellowed the adjutant standing in the doorway.
“You're getting women to look after you now, are you? They told me
you hadn’t come and told me to go away and all the time you’re here
going barmy!”
Burle sat up and pushed the grog away. Mélanie stepped forwards,
looking annoyed, as if she wanted to protect him with her large frame.
But Laguitte looked her squarely in the eyes with that determined
expression that is very familiar to women running the risk of getting
their face slapped.
“Get out!” he said simply.
She still hesitated for a second but when she could almost hear
the slap whistling past-her ear, white with rage she went out to join
Phrosyne at the bar.
When they were alone at last, Laguitte took up his stance in front of
the captain and then, crossing his arms, he bent forwards and with all
his might yelled:
“You dirty bastard!”
Completely taken aback, the other man was on the point of losing
his temper but Laguitte did not give him time.
“Shut up! What a dirty trick to play on a friend... You plastered me
with dud receipts which could have landed both of us in jail. Is that a
decent thing to do? How could you play that sort of dirty game when
we’ve known each other for thirty years?”
Burle subsided into his seat and went ghastly pale. He was trembling
feverishly all over. Walking round him and banging his fist on the table,
the major went on:
“So you've turned into a miserable little petty thief of a clerk, have
you? And all for that cow out there, too!... If you’d done it for your
mother, that would at least have been something honourable but
cooking the accounts and then bringing the proceeds round to this
lousy place, that’s what makes me sick, for Christ’s sake!... Well? What
the hell’s gone wrong with your head to knock yourself up at your age
with a bossy old sow like that? Don’t give me any blarney, I saw the pair
of you playing your little games a moment ago!”
13

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
“You go gambling yourself,” faltered the captain.
“Yes, I do, damn you,” the adjutant replied, even more infuriated
by this remark, “and I’m a damned fool to do it because ’m losing
every penny I’ve got and it’s no credit to the French army. But Christ
Almighty, if I do gamble, I don’t go in for stealing! Kill yourself if you
like and let your mother and your little lad starve but at least keep your
fingers out of the till and don’t land your friends in the shit!”
He stopped. Burle sat staring with an idiotic look on his face. For a
second, the only sound to be heard was the clumping of the major’s
boots.
“And not a bean!” he went on violently. “Well? Can you see yourself
with the handcuffs on? Oh, you rotten bastard!”
He calmed down, seized Burle by the wrist and dragged him to his
feet.
“Come along! We’ve got to do something at once, I shan’t get a wink
of sleep with this on my mind... I’ve got an idea.”
In the large front bar, Mélanie and her maid were excitedly
whispering to each other. When Mélanie saw the two men emerge, she
was bold enough to go up to them and say, in her most ingratiating
voice: “What’s the matter, captain? Are you off so soon?”
“Yes, he is,” Laguitte replied curtly, “and I don’t expect him ever to
set foot in your dirty hole again.”
The little maid caught her mistress by the arm and was unwise
enough to mutter the word “drunk”, whereupon the adjutant finally let
fly with the slap that he’d been itching to give for some time. The two
women ducked and he succeeded only in hitting the back of Phrosyne’s
neck, flattening her bonnet and breaking her comb. The gentlemen of
independent means were indignant.
“Hell, let’s go,” said Laguitte, pushing Burle out on to the pavement.
“Tf I stay, Pll bash the lot of them in there.”
As they crossed the square the water came up to their ankles. The
wind drove the rain streaming down their faces. As they walked along,
the captain said nothing when the adjutant started once more to tell
him off, even more angrily than before, for his “fart-arsing about”.
“Lovely weather for a walk, wasn’t it? If he hadn’t been so stupid,
they’d both be snug in bed instead of paddling about like this.” He
went on to talk about Gagneux. A complete and utter rogue whose
rotten meat had given the whole regiment the squitters three times
14

CAPTAIN BURLE + CHAPTER 2
already. His contract expired next week. The devil if they’d accept his
tender for the next one!
“That’s my pigeon, I can choose who I like,” grunted the adjutant.
“I'd sooner lose my right arm than let that poisoner get another penny
out of us!”
He swore profusely as he slipped up to his knees in a gutter and then
said:
“I’m going to see him... You wait outside while I go up... I want to
find out if he’s really got the guts to go and see the colonel tomorrow, as
he was threatening to do... A butcher, for Christ’s sake! Fancy getting
involved with a butcher! God, you’re certainly not proud. That’s one
thing I’ll never forgive you for.”
They had reached the Place aux Herbes. Gagneux’s house was in
darkness but Laguitte knocked vigorously on the door and it was
eventually opened. Left alone in the dark, Captain Burle did not even
think of seeking shelter but stood motionless in the pouring rain at the
corner of the market square. His head was buzzing and he felt quite
incapable of thought. He did not feel bored, for he had lost all sense of
time. With its windows and doors all closed, the house seemed dead;
he just stood looking at it. When the adjutant emerged an hour later, it
seemed to Burle as if he had only just gone in.
Laguitte looked sombre and said nothing. The captain did not dare
ask any questions. For a brief moment they looked for each other,
dimly, in the gloom. Then they set off once again through the dark
streets that were like some river bed in spate. They groped their way
along side by side, in silence. Absorbed in his thoughts, Laguitte had
even stopped cursing. However, when they were once again crossing
the Place du Palais, seeing that the Café de Paris was still lit up, he
tapped Burle on the shoulder and said:
“If you ever go back to that hole again...”
“Don’t worry,” the captain replied, not letting him finish his sentence.
And he held out his hand. But Laguitte went on:
“No, I’ll take you as far as your house, so that I can at least be sure
you won’t go back there again tonight.”
They walked on. As they went down the Rue des Récollets, they both
slackened their pace. Then, having reached his door, the captain took
his keys out of his pocket and at last decided to speak:
“Well?” he asked.
ils}

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
“Well,” replied the adjutant gruffly, “I’m as big a bastard as you...
I’ve played a shit’s trick... God blast your eyes! Our men are going to
have to eat rotten meat for another three months.”
And he explained that Gagneux, as well as being a disgusting little
man, was a crafty bugger who had gradually led him on to make a
deal: he wouldn’t go and see the colonel, he’d even forget about the two
thousand francs and give Laguitte properly signed receipts in exchange
for the false ones, but in return he insisted that his tender would be
accepted for the next allocation of supplies of meat to the regiment. It
was a bargain.
“So you see,” Laguitte went on, “just think what a packet he must be
making in order to be able to let us off those two thousand francs!”
Choking with emotion, Burle gripped his old friend’s hands, unable
to do more than stammer a few confused words of thanks and moved
to tears at the thought that the adjutant had just perpetrated such a
dishonest action purely in order to save him.
“It’s the first time I’ve ever done a thing like that,” grunted the
adjutant, “but it was the only way... Damn and blast it! Fancy not
having two thousand francs tucked away in one’s drawer! It’s enough
to put you off gambling for good... Well, it’s my bad luck! I’m a pretty
poor sort of chap... Anyway, just listen to me: don’t do it again, because
I certainly won’t, for Christ’s sake!”
The captain gave him a hug and when he had gone in, the adjutant
stood for a moment by the door to make sure he had gone to bed. Then,
as it was striking midnight and the rain was still pelting down, he made
his way laboriously home through the streets now plunged in darkness,
sick at heart at the thought of what he had done to his men. He stopped
and said out loud in a changed voice, full of affection and pity:
“Poor buggers! Think of all the old cow they’ll be eating for the sake
of two thousand francs!”
3
HE REGIMENT WAS STUPEFIED. Skirty had broken off with Mélanie.
By the end of the week, there was proof positive: the captain was
no longer setting foot in the Café de Paris; it was being said that the
pharmacist had slipped into his place, almost before it was cold, to
16

CAPTAIN BURLE + CHAPTER 3
the great chagrin of the former magistrate. And, even more incredibly,
Captain Burle was now cloistered in the Rue des Récollets. He was
definitely settling down, to the point of spending all his evenings at his
own fireside, going over Charles’s lessons with him. His mother, who
had never breathed a word to him about his unsavoury dealings with
Gagneux, sat in her armchair as before, looking as strict and stern as
ever, but in her eyes you could read the belief that he was cured.
One evening, a fortnight later, Laguitte decided to invite himself to
dinner. He felt some embarrassment at the thought of seeing Burle
again, not, indeed, on his own account but on the captain’s, fearing
that it might bring back painful memories. However, since the captain
was a reformed character, he made up his mind to call on him and have
a spot of dinner together.
When Laguitte arrived, the captain was in his room and it was
Madame Burle who let him in. After announcing that he had come to
take pot luck, he enquired in a whisper:
“Well?”
“Everything’s all right,” replied the old lady.
“Nothing fishy?”
“Absolutely nothing... In bed by nine o’clock, not a single late night,
and he seems very cheerful.”
“Well I’m damned! That’s wonderful!” exclaimed the adjutant. “I
knew he needed a good shake-up. His heart’s still in the right place,
the old devil!”
When Burle appeared, he gave him a hearty handshake and before
sitting down to dinner, they stayed chatting genially in front of the
fire, singing the praises of domesticity. The captain declared that he
wouldn’t change his home for a king’s ransom; when he’d taken off
his braces, put on his slippers and stretched out in his armchair, he
wouldn’t call the king his cousin, he said. The adjutant agreed as he
eyed him closely. It was certainly true that his change of heart had
not made him any thinner; in fact, he seemed to have swollen as, with
goggle-eyes and puffy lips, he sat half asleep slumped in his chair,
saying again and again:
“There’s nothing like family life! Family life’s the thing for me!”
“That’s splendid,” said the adjutant, worried at seeing him looking
so completely exhausted, “but don’t overdo it, will you?... Take some
exercise, go to a café now and again.”
17

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
“What would I be doing in a café... I’ve got everything I want here.
No, I’m staying at home.”
Charles was tidying away his books when Laguitte was surprised to
see a maid come in to lay the table.
“You’ve taken someone on?” he said.
“We had to,” Madame Burle replied with a sigh. “My legs aren’t
much good these days and everything was getting neglected... Luckily
old Cabrol let me have his daughter. You must know Cabrol, the old
man who sweeps up the market? He couldn’t think what to do with
Rose. I’m teaching her some cooking.”
The maid left the room.
“How old is she?” enquired the adjutant.
“Just seventeen. She’s stupid and dirty but I only give her ten francs
a month and she doesn’t eat anything but soup.”
When Rose came back with a pile of plates, Laguitte, who was not
much interested in girls, followed her with his eyes, surprised at her
ugliness. She was short, very swarthy, and slightly humpbacked, with
a face like a monkey’s, the nose squashed flat, a broad slit of a mouth
and narrow, glassy, greenish-coloured eyes. She was broad in the beam,
long-armed and looked very strong.
“Heavens above! What a phizog,” said Laguitte with a grin when the
maid had left the room again in search of salt and pepper.
“Ah well,” sighed Burle unconcernedly, “she’s very obliging, she does
everything she’s asked. After all, it’s all you need to do the washing-
up.”
They had a very pleasant meal. There was some beef broth and
mutton stew. Charles was encouraged to talk about his life at school.
To show what a good boy he was, Madame Burle asked him several
times: “You do want to be a soldier, don’t you, Charles?” And a smile
came to her pale lips when the lad replied with the cowed obedience of
a trained dog: “Yes, Grandmamma.” Burle had put his elbows on the
table and was munching gently, absorbed in his own thoughts. There
was a cosy atmosphere round the table, lit by a single lamp which left
the corners of the immense room half in darkness. It was an air of
comfortable lethargy, the friendly informality of people who are not
very well off, who don’t bother to change plates for every course, and
who feel a thrill of surprise when a bowl of whipped whites of egg and
cream custard appears on the table, as a treat, for pudding.
18

CAPTAIN BURLE + CHAPTER 3
Rose, whose heavy-heeled tread was making the table rock as she
walked round the room, had not once opened her mouth while she
was serving but now, standing behind Burle, she said in a hoarse voice:
“Would you like cheese, sir?”
Burle gave a start: “What’s that? Oh, cheese, yes, hold the plate
tightly.”
He cut himself a piece of Gruyére while the girl stood watching him
through her narrow eyes. Laguitte was laughing to himself. He had
been amused by Rose ever since the meal began. Lowering his voice, he
whispered in Burle’s ear:
“T think she’s wonderful, you know. Fancy having a nose and a mouth
like that... Why don’t you send her round to the colonel one day, so
that he can see her. It’l] cheer him up!”
He beamed at her ugly face in an avuncular fashion and, wanting to
be able to look more closely at her, he said:
“And how about me, my girl? I’d like some cheese too.”
She came over with the plate and, sticking his knife into the cheese,
he so far forgot his manners as to laugh as he looked at her, when
he discovered that one of her nostrils was larger than the other. Rose
stolidly allowed herself to be stared at, waiting until the gentleman had
stopped laughing.
She cleared the table and disappeared. While the adjutant and
Madame Burle continued to chat, the captain dropped off to sleep at
once beside the fire. Charles had gone back to his homework. Peace
hovered over the room, the peace of a bourgeois family gathered
together in good fellowship in the same room. At nine o’clock Burle
woke up, yawned and announced that he was going to bed; he was
sorry but he just couldn’t keep his eyes open. When Laguitte left
half an hour later, Madame Burle was unable to find Rose to light
his way to the door: she must have already gone to her room; she
was like a hen, that girl, she could sleep like a log for twelve hours
at a stretch.
“Don’t bother to disturb anyone,” the adjutant said on the landing,
“my legs aren’t much better than yours but if I hold on to the banisters,
Ishan’t break anything... Well, I’m avery happy man. All your troubles
are over now. I’ve been watching Burle and I promise you he’s not up
to any mischief... Damn it all, it really was time for him to give up
chasing skirts. It would have led to trouble.”
19

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
The adjutant went on his way delighted at having seen a house of
such thoroughly nice people — and they were all living on top of each
other, there was no chance of any hanky-panky there!
The thing that really pleased him in this sudden conversion was that
he no longer had to check Burle’s accounts: there was nothing more
boring than all that paperwork. Now that Burle was settling down, all
he had to do was smoke his pipe and countersign everything, without
a second thought. Even so, he did keep half an eye on the books, but
he found the receipts all in order, the totals all balancing correctly
—no irregularity at all. After a month, he merely leafed through the
receipts and checked the totals, as, indeed, he always had done. But
that morning, without any suspicion and: purely because he happened
to be lighting his pipe at the time, his eyes lingered over an addition and
he noticed a mistake of thirteen francs; the total had been increased
by thirteen francs to make the account balance. There had been no
mistake in the actual figures, because he compared them with the
receipts. This struck him as rather suspicious. He did not mention the
matter to Burle but promised himself to keep a check on the additions.
The following week, another mistake: nineteen francs short. He was
so worried by this that he sent for all the ledgers, shut himself up in
his office and spent one horrible morning checking everything, every
sum, cursing and sweating, his mind reeling with figures. In each total,
there were a few francs short: it was a paltry theft, ten francs here,
eight francs there, eleven francs and, in the most recent accounts, the
figure had even dropped to three or four francs, while in one case Burle
had stolen only one and a half francs. So for the last two months,
Burle had been nibbling away at the cash in the till. By comparing
dates, the adjutant was able to ascertain that the famous “lesson” he
had received had kept him straight for barely a week. This was the last
straw. He exploded:
“Christ Al-bloody-mighty!” he bellowed, alone in his office, banging
the ledgers with his fist, “That’s an even dirtier trick!... At least
Gagneux’s false receipts showed some guts... and now he’s sunk to the
level of a cook trying to make a few sous on the sly with a saucepanful
of stew... Cooking the totals, for Christ’s sake!... Buggering about
with one franc fifty!... God Almighty! You might at least show some
pride, you bastard! Make off with the whole till and blue it on some
actress!”
20

CAPTAIN BURLE + CHAPTER 3
It was the shabby meanness of all these thefts that made him so angry.
In addition, he was furious at having been taken in yet again by those
false totals, such an obvious and stupid way of cheating. He stood up
and paced up and down his room for a whole hour, beside himself with
rage, not knowing what to do and talking to himself out loud.
“One thing’s for sure, everybody knows what he’s like. I must do
something... Even if I ticked him off good and proper every morning,
he’d still stick a couple of francs in his pocket every afternoon... But
what’s he spending it on, for Christ’s sake? He’s stopped going out at
night, he’s in bed by nine o’clock every evening and everything looks
so fair, square, and above board at home... Has the bastard got some
other nasty habit we haven’t yet discovered?”
He sat down at his desk and totted up the amounts that were missing.
They came to five hundred and forty-five francs. Where could they
find that money? The annual audit was coming round shortly; it only
needed that old fusspot of a colonel to take it into his head to check a
total for the whole thing to be discovered. This time, Burle was sunk.
This thought made him feel calmer. He stopped swearing but a chill
came over him as the stiff, despairing image of Madame Burle crossed
his mind. At the same time, his heart was so full on his own account
that he could hardly breathe.
“Come on,” he muttered to himself, “the first thing to do is to see
exactly how things stand with that bugger. There’ll still be time to do
something afterwards.”
He went round to Burle’s office. From across the road he caught a
glimpse of a skirt disappearing through a half-open door. Thinking
that here was the key to the mystery, he crept quietly up to the door
and listened. He at once recognized Meélanie’s high-pitched voice, so
characteristic of big women. She was complaining about the “sofa-
room gentlemen” and mentioned an IOU that she couldn’t see how
she was going to pay; the bailiffs were in and everything was going
to be sold up. Then, as the captain scarcely bothered to reply, saying
that he hadn’t a penny, she finally burst into tears and called him
“Mummy’s little darling”. But, despite every endearment, she was
obviously unable to get round him because all that Burle would say,
in a firm, unsympathetic voice, was: “Out of the question. Out of the
question.” After an hour, she swept out in a fury. Astonished at the
turn things were taking, the adjutant waited for a second before going
2

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
into the room where the captain was sitting alone. He found him quite
calm and, resisting the temptation to call him a double-dyed bastard,
Laguitte kept his own counsel, anxious to discover the truth first.
There was nothing sinister to be seen in the office. A solid round
leather cushion lay on the cane seat of the armchair placed in front of
the dark wood table and in a corner stood the cash box, firmly shut.
Summer was coming on and the song of a canary floated through the
open window. Everything was spick and span and the cardboard boxes
were giving off their reassuring smell of old documents.
“Wasn’t it that bitch Mélanie that I saw going out as I came in?”
enquired Laguitte.
Burle shrugged his shoulders and replied quietly:
“Yes, it was. She was after me again trying to squeeze a couple of hun-
dred francs out of me... She won’t get ten, she won’t even get ten sous!”
“Won’t she?” the other man replied, trying to sound him. “I heard
that you’d started seeing her again.”
“Me? Good God no! I’ve had enough of cows like that.”
Laguitte took his leave, completely mystified. Where on earth were
those five hundred and forty-five francs going? Could the old reprobate
have taken to drink or gambling now that he’d given up women? He
made up his mind to take Burle by surprise that very evening, so as to
be able to question his mother as well and perhaps manage to worm
the truth out of him. That afternoon, his leg was hurting atrociously;
he had been having a lot of trouble recently and had had to resign
himself to taking to a stick to avoid limping too obviously. It irked him
dreadfully and he would say, with a mixture of sorrow and anger, that
he now really was a disabled soldier. Nevertheless, that evening he made
the effort and, hauling himself out of his armchair, he dragged himself
to the Rue des Récollets, leaning heavily on his stick under cover of
darkness. It was striking nine as he arrived. The street door was ajar
and he made his way up. He was on the third floor landing, taking a
breather, when he was surprised to hear voices from the floor above.
He thought he could recognize Burle’s voice and so, out of curiosity, he
went on upstairs. On the left, at the end of the corridor, he could see
a ray of light coming from a doorway, but his boots creaked, the door
was shut and he found himself in complete darkness.
“It’s idiotic,” he thought to himself. “It must be the cook going to
bed.”
pe

CAPTAIN BURLE + CHAPTER 3
All the same, approaching as quietly as he could, he put his ear to
the door. He could hear two voices and his jaw dropped: it was that
bastard Burle and that hideous monster Rose.
“You promised me three francs,” she was saying. “Let me have
them\.”
“Pll give you them tomorrow, my little darling,” the captain replied
beseechingly. “I couldn’t manage it today. You know I always keep my
promises.”
“No, give me my three francs now or else ’ll send you packing
downstairs.”
She must have got undressed already and been sitting on her trestle
bed because it creaked every time she moved. The captain could be
heard shifting from one foot to another like a cat on hot bricks. He
went up to the bed:
“Do be a kind girl. Make room for me.”
“Leave me alone!” exclaimed Rose in her grating voice. “I’ll scream,
Pll tell the old girl downstairs everything... Just hand over the three
francs!”
She was insisting on her three francs with the stubbornness of a
mule.
Burle lost his temper, then he wept, and finally he took a pot of jam
out of his pocket, stolen from his mother’s larder. Rose seized hold of
it and, without bothering about bread, immediately started digging
into it with the handle of a fork which was lying on top of her chest
of drawers. It was good jam but when the captain thought he had
succeeded in placating her, she pushed him away again as stubbornly
as ever.
“You can stuff your jam. I want three francs!”
At this last demand, speechless with rage, the adjutant lifted his stick,
ready to split open the door. Christ Almighty! What a bitch! And think
of a captain in the French army standing for such a thing! He forgot all
about Burle’s nasty tricks, he could have strangled that horrible little
skivvy for her behaviour. Fancy trying to bargain with an ugly mug like
that! It was she who ought to be paying the captain. But he restrained
himself, to hear what was going to happen.
“You’re making me miserable,” the captain was saying, “and when
I’ve been so nice to you... I’ve given you a dress and some earrings and
then a little watch... You don’t even use my presents.”
8,

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
“So what? Just to spoil them?... My Dad looks after all my things
for me.”
“And what about all the money you’ve got out of me?”
“Dad’s investing it for me.”
There was silence. Rose was thinking.
“Look, if you swear that you’ll let me have six francs tomorrow
night, I'll agree... So kneel down and swear you’ll bring me six francs.
No, you must get down on your knees.”
A shudder ran through the adjutant and he moved away from the
door to lean against the wall. His legs were giving way under him and
in the pitch-dark staircase he was brandishing his stick like a sabre.
Good God Almighty! Now he could understand why that bastard Burle
was staying home all the time and going to bed at nine o’clock! So that
was his wonderful change of heart, by Christ! And with a revolting
little trollop that the most depraved of troopers wouldn’t have touched
with a bargepole!
“For God’s sake,” said the adjutant out loud, “why didn’t he stick to
Melanie?”
What was to be done now? Go in and give the pair of them a taste of
his stick? That was his first thought; then he took pity on the old lady
downstairs. The best thing was to leave them to their rutting. You’d
never get Burle to behave decently. When a man sank as low as that,
the only thing to do was to throw a spadeful of mud over him and
get rid of him like the rotting carcass of some poisonous beast. And
even if you shoved his nose in his own shit, he’d only start again the
next day and end up stealing a few sous to buy sticks of barley sugar
for lice-ridden little beggar girls. Christ Almighty! And it was money
belonging to the French army! And what about the honour of the flag?
And the respectable name of Burle that would end up in the gutter!
Christ Almighty! It mustn’t end like that!
For a moment the adjutant half relented. If only he had those five
hundred and forty-five francs! But he hadn’t got a brass farthing.
Yesterday evening, after getting drunk like any subaltern, he’d lost an
enormous sum at cards. He deserved to have to limp! He ought to have
been killed!
So he left the loathsome couple to their antics and went downstairs
to ring at Madame Burle’s door. After a good five minutes, the old lady
herself came to open it.
24

CAPTAIN BURLE * CHAPTER 3
“Pm sorry,” she said. “I thought that sleepyhead Rose was still
here... I must go and give her a shake in bed.”
The adjutant stopped her.
“What about Burle?” he asked.
“Oh, he’s been snoring away ever since nine o’clock. Would you like
me to go and knock on his door?”
“No, please don’t do that... All I wanted is a little evening chat with
you.”
In the dining room Charles was sitting in his usual place at the table
and had just finished his Latin translation. But he had a terrified look
on his face and his hands were trembling. Before sending him off to
bed, his grandmother would read him accounts of famous battles, in
order to stimulate his sense of pride in family heroism. That evening,
the story of the Avenger, a ship full of dead and wounded which went
to the bottom in the midst of the ocean, had left the little boy in a
dreadful state of nerves, his head whirling with horrible nightmare
visions.
Madame Burle asked Laguitte to let her finish reading the story. Then,
as the last sailor shouted: “Long live the Republic!”, she solemnly shut
the book. Charles was as white as a sheet.
“You heard that, didn’t you?” the old lady said. “It’s the duty of
every French soldier to die for his country.”
“Yes, Grandma.”
He kissed her on the forehead and went off to bed, trembling with
fear, in the vast room where the slightest creak in the woodwork
brought him out in a cold sweat.
The adjutant had been listening earnestly. Yes, by God, honour was
honour and he must never Jet that scoundrel Burle bring dishonour
on that poor old woman and the young lad. Since the youngster had
such a liking for military life, he must be able to get into Saint-Cyr,
holding his head high. But the adjutant was still trying to dismiss from
his mind a dreadful thought which had been troubling him ever since
the mention of those six francs upstairs when Madame Burle picked up
the lamp to show him out. As they walked past the captain’s bedroom,
she was surprised to see the key in the door, something she had never
seen before.
“Come in,” she said, “it’s bad for him to sleep so much, it makes him
lethargic.”
25

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
And before he could stop her, she pushed open the door and stood
rooted to the spot when she saw that the room was empty. Laguitte had
gone very red and he looked so foolish that all at once dozens of little
details fell into place in her mind and she realized the truth.
“You knew about it, you knew all about it,” she stammered.
“Why didn’t you warn me? Heavens above, in my own house, with
his son sleeping in the next room... and with that scullery maid, that
hideous-looking scullery maid!... And he’s been stealing again, I can
feel it in my bones!”
She stood there, white-faced and rigid. Then she added harshly:
“T wish he were dead!”
Laguitte took hold of her two hands and clasped them tightly for a
second in his own. Then he quickly took his leave, for he had a lump
in his throat and he would have burst into tears. Christ Almighty! This
time his mind really was made up!
4
dle HE AUDIT WAS DUE TO TAKE PLACE at the end of the month. The ad-
jutant still had ten days to act. The very next day he limped his
way to the Café de Paris, where he ordered a beer. Mélanie had gone
very pale and Phrosyne took him his beer very reluctantly, fully expect-
ing to have her face slapped. But the adjutant seemed very relaxed;
he asked for a chair to rest his leg on and then drank his beer like
any honest thirsty citizen. He had been sitting there an hour when he
saw two brother officers crossing the square, the battalion commander
Morandot and Captain Doucet.
“Come and have a drink,” he called out to them when they were in
earshot.
The officers could hardly refuse. When the little barmaid had served
them, Morandot asked:
“So you come here now, do you?”
Captain Doucet gave a knowing wink.
“Have you become one of the ‘sofa-room gents’?”
Laguitte merely laughed. Then they started pulling his leg about
Melanie, whereupon he gave a good-natured shrug of his shoulders;
she was a fine figure of a woman, when all was said and done, and
26

CAPTAIN BURLE * CHAPTER 4
though people were very ready to make jokes about her, those who
were prepared to run her down would still have been quite glad of
a nibble. Then he turned towards the bar and, making his voice as
affable as possible, he called out:
“Three more beers please, Madame Mélanie!”
Melanie was so surprised that she stood up and fetched the beers
herself. When she came to the table, the major engaged her in con-
versation, even going so far as to give her a gentle tap or two on her hand
which was resting on the back of one of the chairs. At this, Mélanie
herself, used to getting both kicks and ha’pence, began to flirt with the
major, imagining that she had attracted the fancy of the old cripple, as
she used to call him privately when talking with Phrosyne. Doucet and
Morandot were exchanging glances. Well! Well! Damned if their old
adjutant wasn’t following in Skirty’s footsteps! The regiment would
certainly enjoy that!
Meanwhile Laguitte had been keeping one eye on the Place du Palais
through the open door and now he suddenly exclaimed:
“T say, there’s Burle!”
“Yes, this is the time he goes by,” said Mélanie, also coming to look.
“He comes this way every afternoon when he leaves the office.”
Despite his bad leg, the adjutant had jumped to his feet and, pushing
his way through the chairs, he shouted:
“Hullo, Burle! Come and have a beer!”
The captain was quite taken aback and wondered how Laguitte
came to be at Mélanie’s with Doucet and Morandot. However, he auto-
matically came over and stood, still hesitating, in the doorway.
The adjutant ordered a beer and then, turning round, he said:
“What on earth’s the matter?... Come in and sit down. Do you think
somebody’s going to eat you?”
When the captain had come in and sat down, there was a moment
of embarrassment. As she brought the glass of beer, Mélanie’s hands
were trembling slightly, for she was in constant fear that there would
be a row which would lead to the closing of her establishment. She
now felt worried by the adjutant’s amiability and was just trying to slip
away when Laguitte invited her to have a drink with the gentlemen,
and, acting as if he owned the place, he had already ordered a glass of
anisette. Mélanie found herself forced to sit down between him and the
captain. The adjutant kept saying, in a bullying tone:
ju,

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
“I insist that these ladies be shown respect!... For heaven’s sake, let’s
behave like gentlemen! We’ll drink Melanie’s health!”
Burle was looking at his glass with an embarrassed smile on his face.
Shocked at the toast, the two other officers were trying to stand up and
leave. Fortunately, the room was empty, with only the usual group of
players having their customary game of dominoes who kept looking
meaningfully at each other each time they heard an oath; so scandalized
were they at seeing so many people in the room that they were thinking
of taking their game to the Café de la Gare if the military were going
to invade their private domain. The only other occupants were a whole
swarm of buzzing flies, attracted by the filth of the tables which Phrosyne
nowadays bothered to wash only on Saturdays; she herself had gone
back to her novel which she was reading sprawled out behind the bar.
“Well? Aren’t you going to drink Madame Melanie’s health?” snapped
the adjutant to Burle. “You might at least show some manners!”
And as Doucet and Morandot once more stood up to leave:
“Wait a second, for God’s sake! I’m coming with you. The trouble is
that that brute there has never known how to behave!”
The two officers stood there, amazed at the adjutant’s sudden
outburst. Melanie, trying to smooth matters down, laid a restraining
hand on the two men’s arms and gave a soothing laugh.
“No, leave me alone! Why wouldn’t he drink your health? I’m not
going to allow you to be insulted, do you understand?... I’m fed up to
the teeth with this pig!”
At this insult, Burle went white to the teeth and, standing up, said to
Morandot:
“What’s the matter with him? He’s invited me here to create a row...
Is he drunk?”
“Damn and blast your eyes!” bellowed Laguitte.
And, rising to his feet on his trembling legs, he leant over and gave
the captain a resounding slap across the face. Mélanie barely had time
to duck to avoid receiving some of it on her own ear. There was a
dreadful commotion. Phrosyne started to scream as if it were she who
had been hit. The terrified domino players took refuge behind their
table, imagining that all these soldiers were about to draw their sabres
and hack each other to pieces. Meanwhile Morandot and Doucet had
caught hold of the captain by his arms to prevent him from hurling
himself on the adjutant and were leading him gently towards the door.
28

CAPTAIN BURLE + CHAPTER 4
Once outside, they succeeded in calming him down a little by putting
all the blame on to Laguitte. The colonel would pass judgement,
because they would go and see him to tell him all about the affair that
very evening, since they had been witnesses. When they had persuaded
Burle to leave, they went back into the café where Laguitte, in a very
emotional state and close to tears, was pretending to be calm as he
finished off his beer.
“Look here, Laguitte,” Major Morandot said, “this is a very bad
business. The captain isn’t of equal rank with you and you know very
well that it’s impossible for him to be granted permission to fight
you.”
“We'll see about that!” retorted the adjutant.
“But what did he do to you? He wasn’t even talking to you... Two old
comrades like you, it’s absurd!”
Laguitte made a vague gesture.
“Never mind! He was getting on my nerves.”
That was all he would say and no one was ever any the wiser. All the
same, it caused a tremendous stir. The general opinion in the regiment
was that Melanie, furious at having been dropped by the captain, had
succeeded in getting her claws in Laguitte and by retailing horrific stories
about Burle had persuaded the adjutant to slap the captain’s face. Who
would ever have credited it, of that hardened old sinner Laguitte, after
all the dreadful things he used to say about women. Well, it’d been his
turn to be curbed. Despite the general revulsion against Mélanie, this
adventure set her up as a woman to be reckoned with, a woman to
be both feared and desired, and henceforth her establishment was to
flourish greatly.
The following day, the colonel sent for the adjutant and the captain.
He gave them both a sharp dressing down, accusing them of bringing
the army into disrepute in a notorious place. What did they intend
to do about it now, since he could not possibly authorize them to
fight? This was the question which had kept the whole regiment on
tenterhooks ever since the previous day. An apology seemed to be
excluded because of the slap in the face; however, since Laguitte could
hardly stand because of his bad leg, it was felt that a reconciliation
might be brought about if the colonel insisted.
“Well now,” the colonel went on, “are you both prepared to let me
act as arbitrator?”
uy

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
“Excuse me, colonel,” the adjutant interposed, “I wish to resign my
commission... Here’s my resignation. I think that settles everything.
Will you please fix the day for the duel?”
Burle looked at him in surprise. For his part, the colonel felt that he
should make some observations of his own:
“That’s a very serious decision you’re making, Laguitte... You’ve
only two years to go before retirement.”
The adjutant broke in again:
“That’s my concern,” he said gruffly.
“Well, yes, certainly... Very well then, I’ll forward your resignation
and as soon as it’s approved, I’ll fix the day for the duel.”
The outcome of this interview stunned the regiment. What on earth
had got into their crazy adjutant to make him want to risk getting
his throat cut by his old comrade Burle? Mélanie’s name was again
mentioned and her being such a fine figure of a woman; all the officers
had by now become obsessed by her and intrigued by the thought
that she must be a really hot bit of stuff to make those two tough old
campaigners lose their heads in that way. The battalion commander,
Major Morandot, happening to meet Laguitte, made no secret of his
concern. Assuming he wasn’t killed, what was he going to live on? He
had no private means and he’d have a job to afford anything better
than dry bread on the pension he’d get from his decoration and his
half-pay. While Morandot was speaking, Laguitte said not a word but
stared vacantly into space, completely oblivious to anything apart
from his own dogged obsessions. Then, when the other man tried to
discover the reasons for his hatred of Burle, he merely repeated his
former phrase, accompanied by the same vague gesture:
“He was getting on my nerves. Never mind!”
Every morning, in the barrack room and in the mess, the first
question was: “Well, has his resignation come through yet?” Everyone
was awaiting the duel and above all discussing its probable outcome.
Most people thought that Laguitte would be run through in a couple
of seconds because it was absurd to want to fight at his age, with
a gammy leg that wouldn’t even allow him to lunge. A few people,
however, shook their heads knowingly: true, Laguitte had never been a
genius; indeed, for the last twenty years his name had been a password
for stupidity, but in the old days, he was known as the best swordsman
in the regiment, and, brought up in the military school, he had risen
30

CAPTAIN BURLE * CHAPTER 4
from the ranks to become a battalion commander through his extreme
bravery and complete disregard of danger. Burle, on the other hand,
was a very ordinary swordsman and had the reputation of being a
coward. Anyway, they’d all have to wait and see. And excitement grew
as that confounded resignation was an interminable time coming
through.
The man who was most worried and upset was certainly the adjutant:
a week had already passed and the general audit was due to start the
day after tomorrow. There was still no news. He was appalled by the
thought that he might have slapped his old friend’s face and sent in his
resignation for nothing, without holding back the scandal for a single
minute. If he were to be killed, however, at least he would be spared
the aggravation of knowing about it, and if he killed Burle, as he was
relying on doing, they would hush the matter up at once: he would have
saved the honour of the army and the youngster would get into Saint-
Cyr. But those miserable pen-pushers at the Ministry would have to get
a move on, blast their eyes! The adjutant was on tenterhooks: he could
be seen lurking around the post office, looking out for each delivery,
questioning the colonel’s duty orderly, in order to find out what was
happening. He spent sleepless nights and took to his stick, no longer
caring what people might think when they saw him limping heavily.
On the day before the audit, Laguitte was making his way yet again
to the colonel when he was dismayed to see Madame Burle who was
taking Charles to school. He had not seen her since his last visit
and she, for her part, had shut herself up in her flat in the Rue des
Récollets. Almost in a state of collapse, he moved over to leave the
whole pavement free for her and the boy. Neither of them greeted the
other, which made the little boy open his eyes wide in astonishment.
Stiff as a ramrod, Madame Burle brushed coldly past without the
quiver of an eyelid. And when she had gone by, he looked after her
with eyes full of bewilderment.
“For Christ’s sake,” he grunted, forcing back his tears, “don’t tell me
I’m becoming a woman!”
As he was going in to see the colonel, a captain in the office said:
“Well, that’s it! Your papers have come through.”
“Ah!” he murmured, white as a sheet.
He could still see in his mind’s eye that stiff and implacable old lady
walking away holding her grandson’s hand. Good God! To think that
31

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
he had been awaiting the arrival of those papers so anxiously for the
last week and now they had come he felt all upset and excited!
The duel took place next morning behind a low wall in the barrack
yard. It was a bright sunny day, with a nip in the air. Laguitte had
almost to be carried to the spot. One of his seconds gave him his arm
while he supported himself on his stick with the other. Burle, whose
yellow unhealthy-looking face was bloated with fat, was walking as if
in a dream, like someone benumbed by a night of debauchery. Not a
word was exchanged. Everyone wanted to put an end to the proceedings
with all possible speed.
Captain Doucet, who was one of the seconds, engaged the swords,
stood back and said:
“Go ahead, gentlemen!”
Burle attacked at once, in order to put Laguitte to the test and
see what he might expect. For the last few days he had been living
in a nightmare world of absurdity, unable to understand what was
happening. He did, indeed, suspect something but he rejected this
suspicion with a shudder for he could see death at the end of it and
refused to believe that a friend could play such a macabre joke on him
in order to settle such a matter. Moreover, Laguitte’s leg gave him a
certain confidence. He would prick him in the shoulder and there the
matter would end.
For nearly two minutes the swords clinked and scraped together, steel
against steel. Then the captain disengaged and attempted to lunge, but
the adjutant, his wrist suddenly discovering its strength of earlier days,
made a fierce parry “in quinte” and, had the captain tried to counter,
he would have been pierced through and through. Hastily, he broke off,
ghastly pale as he felt himself at the mercy of this man who, for this
once, had let him off. He was, at last, beginning to understand: this
was an execution.
However, planted firmly on his bad legs, Laguitte, solid as a rock,
was biding his time. The two opponents were staring at each other.
Into Burle’s baffled gaze there came an imploring look, a plea for
mercy: he knew that he was about to die and, like a naughty child, he
was promising never to do it again. But in the adjutant’s eyes there was
no spark of pity; honour was at stake and he must stifle any feeling of
compassion that might be prompted by his own good nature.
“Let’s finish if off!” he muttered to himself.
32

CAPTAIN BURLE + CHAPTER 4
This time it was he who attacked. There was a flash of steel as his
sword darted from right to left and back again and then like a streak
of lightning planted itself straight in the captain’s chest. He fell like a
log, without a sound.
Laguitte let go of his sword and looked down at that poor bastard
Burle lying flat on his back with his pot belly up in the air. He kept
repeating, in an angry, broken voice:
“Christ Almighty! Christ Almighty!”
They led him away. Both his legs were affected and his seconds had to
support him on both sides, for he was unable even to use his stick.
Two months later, the former adjutant was limping painfully in the
sun along a deserted street in Vauchamp when he again met Madame
Burle and young Charles. They were both dressed in deep mourning.
He tried to avoid them but he had difficulty in walking and they were
coming straight towards him, not altering their pace in the slightest.
Charles still had his gentle, scared, girlish expression. Madame Burle,
unbending as ever, was looking harsher and more gaunt. As Laguitte
stepped sideways into a carriage gateway, leaving the whole street clear
for them, she suddenly stopped in front of him and held out her hand.
He hesitated, then finally put out his own and shook it, but he was
trembling so much that he made the old lady’s arm shake. They looked
each other in the eyes without a word.
“Charles,” said his grandmother at last, “shake hands with Major
Laguitte.”
The child obeyed, without understanding. The major had gone as
white as a sheet. He could hardly bring himself to touch the little boy’s
frail fingers. Then, realizing that he ought to say something, the only
thing he could think of was:
“You’re still hoping to send him to Saint-Cyr?”
“Certainly, when he’s old enough.”
Next week, Charles was carried off by typhoid. One evening,
pursuing her policy of making him tough, his grandmother had once
more read him the heroic story of the Avenger. That night, he became
delirious. In fact, he had died of fright.
a8

» dees we
wot ere ai vey TTP HD: were oP canal
Wheres ote toque tibet utente deadl sh Rclcaragn an waht Sime
Al ashe wl 60 ee cabana Aghend \ aa Senbiy Baerga Se
| mee eoheplap cya @y © Tae tegdae eal
Dies ee sprint. opted redtilseneuthbe ane tanlagaks
te ot ew al eee! oper mr ceetia aca dig
‘thy bakin Got (epee ieee py)
py * Gey ‘“ We ye o™e aims, oat ht edpawivaanae m7
oe eeer eee eT ee eee es
wi) eye ear ta ston yfe w al ut teh Gos on ore ig
uh eee liiee Gane gee ee eta er vemiab a.f ata waitin.
wined cid heed ugar! novi qrentheald ed mente ioormah ose oun
shi bemenincndpeaee nid, dhol oree Gall / eet qu Len ee)
Weel A One Ge et collie giddaedelicestos tate’
PA woes WHoIrm Tangs t. eam ale Gel) sonlM ypamRsig as
ee re re i ed wo se
Wang wb Flares coseteciatny Re OM a
6 MDT ree te Wiis inn dele rro banlt ts
tee dtieneoenal kan: pe hp most aiegp aedh C
% PW OW eos tls te af
Sakwbede Cisma nb: oe vie devel ehae
ryanseWra i n-rt duis Lith amATyeew lp ee
odeh tints vhebet ‘s.ete Maat epedinan
ORG, Pra. tbe 1) 9 rh aay «oA satheeeeterad ta
rangy ces tina etn inn ate eee ve Reed &
eyo MGAad esr ~~ owner pons wea oat ei
bireoendsh patit enon ‘seed gees Fanti
Suey pee se) Ge ome ue eigel
{eee Jue by foo «Oe ae epee ;
aft A oPereslh y Paty by heb
ANNE P Aor eet atr lnerh die
nen Sed guip eta: 4b uh; .
Bee OAT ANON ede!| eee sate ten
(aaa Te Pc. ae ei fee one Mnguligt Mt
+29 | Tame rer: 15.0 O aE Mpsikigh
Me Sy OH Ue BAYTy chase wine 20 nO
‘py mgt ohat sina p td (eee i
‘Cane Fry Pasa! ur ng

Coqueville on the Spree’
if
OQUEVILLE IS A LITTLE VILLAGE snuggling down in a rocky inlet five
miles from Grandport. A fine broad sandy beach stretches out at
the foot of the ramshackle old cottages stuck halfway up the cliff-face
like shells left high and dry by the tide. When you climb to the left,
up on to the heights of Grandport, you can see the yellow expanse of
beach very plainly to the west, looking like a tide of gold dust flowing
out of the gaping slit in the rock, and if you have good eyes, you can
even make out the tumbledown cottages standing out, rust-coloured
against the stone, with the bluish smoke from their chimneys drifting
upwards to the crest of the enormous ridge blocking the horizon.
It’s an out-of-the-way hole. Coqueville has never succeeded in bringing
its population up to the two hundred mark. The gorge running down
to the sea, on the edge of which the village is situated, is so steep and
winding that it is almost impassable for horses and carts. This prevents
communication and isolates the village so that it seems miles away
from any of the neighbouring hamlets. As a result, the inhabitants’
only communication with Grandport was by water. They were almost
all fishermen living from the sea and had to transport their catch there
by boat every day. They hada contract with a large firm of wholesalers,
Dufeu’s, which bought their fish in bulk. Old Dufeu had been dead
for some years but the business had been carried on by his widow; she
had merely taken on an assistant, a tall fair-headed young fellow called
Mouchel, whose job was to visit the villages along the coast and strike
bargains with the villagers. This Monsieur Mouchel was the only link
between Coqueville and the civilized world.
Coqueville deserves to have a historian. It seems certain that in
the Dark Ages the village was founded by the Mahés, a family which
found its way there, settled down and proliferated at the foot of the
cliff. At first, the Mahés must have flourished by intermarriage, since
for centuries you find nothing but Mahés. Then, under Louis XIII,*
35

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
there appeared a Floche. No one really knows where he came from.
He married a Mahé and from that moment onwards a strange
phenomenon occurred: the Floches prospered and were so prolific
that they ended up by engulfing the Mahés, whose numbers decreased
while their wealth passed into the newcomers’ hands. Doubtless
the Floches had brought new blood, a sturdier constitution and a
temperament more suited to face the strong winds and rough seas of
their profession. However that might be, the Floches were by now the
bosses of Coqueville.
You will have realized that this shift in numbers and wealth had not
taken place without terrible strife. The Mahés and the Floches hated
each other like poison; centuries of loathing seethed between them.
Despite their decline, the Mahés were proud, as befitted a former
conqueror. After all, they were the founders and ancestors. They
would speak with scorn of the first of the Floches, a beggar and a
tramp whom they had taken into their bosoms out of pity, and they
expressed eternal regret at having given him one of their daughters.
If you were to believe them, this Floche had produced nothing but a
breed of lewd rogues who spent their nights in copulation and their
days in pursuit of heiresses. There was no insult too foul to heap on the
powerful tribe of Floches, with the bitter fury of ruined and decimated
aristocrats against the arrogant and prolific middle classes who had
dispossessed them of their mansions and their wealth that were theirs
by right of inheritance. Needless to say, success had turned the Floches,
on their part, into an arrogant lot. They were sitting pretty and could
afford to sneer. They made fun of the ancient race of Mahé and swore
to turn them out of the village if they didn’t knuckle under. For them,
the Mahes were down-and-outs who, instead of wrapping themselves
proudly in their tattered finery, would be better employed mending
it. Thus Coqueville found itself the prey of two warring clans; about
one hundred and thirty of its inhabitants determined to take over the
other fifty, for no other reason than that they were stronger. Struggles
between mighty empires tell the same story.
Amongst the recent squabbles which had been tearing Coqueville
apart, we may mention the famous feud between Fouasse and Tupain
and the spectacular brawls between the Rouget couple. It must be
explained that in the old days everyone was given a nickname, which
later on became a surname, because it was difficult to disentangle all
36

COQUEVILLE ON THE SPREE : CHAPTER 1
the cross-breedings of Mahé and Floche. Rouget had certainly once
had an ancestor who had flaming red hair; as for Fouasse and Tupain,
no one knew the reason for their names, since in the course of the
years many nicknames had lost any rational explanation. Well, old
Francoise, a sprightly old girl of eighty, still alive, had married a Mahé
and produced Fouasse; then, after being widowed, had remarried a
Floche and given birth to Tupain. Hence the mutual antagonism of
the two brothers, a hatred kept alive by the fact that questions of
inheritance were involved. As for the Rougets, they fought like cat and
dog because Rouget accused his wife Marie of carrying on with a dark-
haired Floche, the tall and sturdy Brisemotte.* Rouget had already
flung himself a couple of times on the latter, knife in hand, screaming
that he would have his guts for garters. He was an excitable little man,
always flying into rages.
But Coqueville’s major concern at the moment was neither Rouget’s
rages nor Tupain’s and Fouasse’s squabbles. There was a wild rumour
going round that a Mahe, Delphin, a whippersnapper of twenty, had
the audacity to be in love with Margot, the beautiful daughter of La
Queue, the wealthiest of the Floches and mayor of the village. This
La Queue was a very considerable person indeed. He was called La
Queue because under Louis Philippe, his father, obstinately clinging
to fashions prevalent in his youth, had been the last man in the
village to tie his hair in a pigtail.* Now La Queue owned Zephyr,
one of Coqueville’s two large fishing boats and by far the best, a fine
seaworthy vessel, newly built. The other cutter was the Whale, a rotten
old tub owned by Rouget and manned by Delphin and Fouasse, while
La Queue sailed with a crew consisting of Tupain and Brisemotte.
The latter were always making sarcastic comments about the Whale,
describing it as an old tub which, one fine day, would disintegrate like
a handful of mud. So when La Queue heard that this good-for-nothing
young Delphin, the Whale’s cabin boy, was daring to make sheep’s eyes
at his daughter, he gave her a couple of well-directed slaps in the face as
a warning that she would never become a Mahé. Margot was furious
and responded by loudly proclaiming that she would pass on the same
treatment to Delphin if he ever had the nerve to start prowling around
her. It was maddening to have your ears boxed because of a young
man whom you’d never really bothered to look at properly. Although
only sixteen, Margot was as strong as a man and already as lovely as
ih

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
any lady; she had the reputation of being high and mighty, a young
madam who had no time for sweethearts. So you can well understand
how those two slaps, Delphin’s audacity and Margot’s anger had kept
every tongue wagging in Coqueville.
However, there were people who said that Margot was not as angry
as all that at seeing Delphin hanging around her. This Delphin was a
small young fellow with a face tanned by the sea and a mop of blond
curls that hung down over his eyes and neck. And, despite his slender
build, he was very strong and quite capable of tackling someone three
times his size. Rumour had it that he would sometimes go off and
spend the night in Grandport. This gave him a reputation with the
girls of being something of a wolf, and when talking together they
would accuse him of “living it up”, a vague phrase which suggested all
kinds of secret pleasures. Whenever she mentioned his name, Margot
seemed to become rather too excited, while when he looked at her
through his tiny bright eyes, he would give a sly grin and show not
the slightest concern whether she was angry or scornful. He would
walk past her front door, slip into the bushes and stay watching her
for hours, as lithe and patient as a cat stalking a tomtit, and when
she suddenly discovered him right behind her, so close at times that
she would detect his presence by the warmth of his breath, he did not
take himself off but would put on such a gentle, wistful look that she
was left speechless with surprise and remembered to be annoyed only
after he had gone. There is no doubt that, had her father seen her, she
would have collected another box on the ears. Things could certainly
not go on like this for ever, but although she kept swearing that one
day she would give Delphin the promised box on the ears, she never
in fact took advantage of any opportunity of doing so when he was
there. This made people say that she’d do better not to keep on talking
so much about it, since the truth was that she still had given no sign of
keeping her word.
All the same, nobody ever imagined that she would ever marry
Delphin. It seemed merely a case of a passing fancy by a flirtatious
young girl. As for marriage between the most poverty-stricken of the
Maheés, who would find it hard to contribute even half a dozen shirts
to the matrimonial estate, and the mayor’s daughter, the richest heiress
among the Floches, the whole idea would be monstrous. Unkind
people hinted that she might nonetheless quite possibly get together
38

COQUEVILLE ON THE SPREE * CHAPTER 1
with him but that she would certainly never marry him. A rich girl
can enjoy herself as she pleases but when she has her head screwed on
straight, she doesn’t do anything silly. Anyway, the whole of Coqueville
was taking a passionate interest in the matter and was curious to see
the outcome. Would Delphin end up getting his ears boxed? Or would
Margot get a kiss on her cheek in some remote corner of the cliffs?
They'd have to wait and see. Some people supported the box on the
ears, others the kiss on the cheek. Coqueville was all agog.
In the whole village there were only two people who did not belong
either to the Mahé or the Floche camps: the priest and the gamekeeper.
The latter, a tall lean man whose real name no one knew but whom
everyone called the Emperor,* doubtless because he had served under
Charles X, in fact exercised no serious supervision whatsoever over the
game of the district, which consisted of nothing but bare rock and
deserted heathland. He had got the job because a sous-préfet® had
taken him under his wing and had created on his behalf this sinecure
where he was free to squander his very modest salary undisturbed. As
for Father Radiguet, he was one of those simple-minded priests whom
bishops are anxious to get rid of by tucking them away in some God-
forsaken hole where they can stay out of mischief. Radiguet was a
decent sort of man who had reverted to his peasant origins and spent
his time working in his exiguous little garden hewn out of the rock-
face, and smoking his pipe as he watched his lettuces grow. His only
weakness was a love of food, although he was hardly in a position to
show a discriminating palate, since he was forced to make do with a
diet of mackerel and cider, of which he sometimes drank more than
he could hold. All the same, he was a good shepherd to his flock and
they would come along, at infrequent intervals, to hear him say mass,
purely to oblige him.
However, after managing to remain neutral for a long time, the
priest and the gamekeeper had been forced to take sides. Conservative
at heart, the Emperor had opted for the Mahés while the priest had
become a Flochite. This had given rise to complications. As the
Emperor had absolutely nothing to do all day long and was tired
of counting the boats leaving Grandport harbour, he had taken it
into his head to act as the village policeman. As a Mahe supporter,
he favoured Fouasse against Tupain, tried to catch Brisemotte and
Rouget’s wife red-handed and, above all, turned a blind eye when he
39

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
saw Delphin slipping into Margot’s backyard. The trouble was that
these goings-on led to violent disagreement between him and his direct
superior, the mayor La Queue. While being sufficiently respectful of
discipline to listen to the mayor’s rebukes, the gamekeeper would
then go away and do as he thought fit, thereby causing complete
chaos in Coqueville’s public administration. You could never go
near the glorified shed that served as Coqueville’s town hall without
being deafened by the sound of some flaming row or other between
the two. Father Radiguet, on the other hand, having joined the
triumphant clan of the Floches, who showered him with gifts of
superb mackerel, secretly encouraged Rouget’s wife to stand up to
her husband and threatened Margot with all the torments of hell if
she ever let Delphin lay as much as a finger on her. In a word, anarchy
reigned supreme, with the army in revolt against the civil authority
and religion conniving at the frolics of the wealthier members of his
flock, so that, in this dead-and-alive little hole looking out upon the
infinite expanse of the sky and the vast sweep of the ocean, you had
a whole community of fully one hundred and eighty souls at daggers
drawn with each other.
In the midst of all this turmoil, Delphin alone never lost his good
spirits; young and in love as he was, he did not give a damn for anything
or anybody, as long as Margot would one day be his. He may well
have been planning to snare her like a rabbit, but being a sensible lad
despite his wild ways, he was going to see to it that the priest should
tie the knot that would ensure that they would live happily ever after.
One evening as he was lying in wait for her in a lane, Margot finally
took a swing at him and then blushed purple in confusion when,
instead of waiting for the blow to land, Delphin caught hold of her
hand and feverishly covered it in kisses.
She was trembling as he whispered to her:
“T love you. Will you love me?”
“Never!” she cried in a shocked voice.
He gave a shrug of his shoulders and said quietly, with a tender look
in his eyes:
“Please don’t say that... We’ll get on very well together, the pair of
us. You’ll see just how nice it is.”
40

COQUEVILLE ON THE SPREE + CHAPTER 2
yu
al HAT SUNDAY, the weather was dreadful, one of those sudden Sep-
tember storms which blow up with terrible force on the rocky
coast round Grandport. As dusk was falling, Coqueville caught
a glimpse of a vessel in distress being driven before the wind. But
the light was failing and there was no question of going to her res-
cue. Since the previous day, Zephyr and the Whale had been tied
up in the tiny natural harbour to the left of the beach, between the
two granite sea walls. Neither La Queue nor Rouget were going to
risk venturing out. Unfortunately, Madame Dufeu’s representative,
Monsieur Mouchel, had taken the trouble to come over personally
on Saturday to offer a bonus if they made a real effort: catches were
poor and the Central Market was complaining. So when they went
to bed on Sunday withthe rain still pelting down, the fishermen of
Coqueville were bad-tempered and full of grumbles. It was always
the same old story: when the demand was good, the fish just weren’t
there. And they all discussed the ship that had been seen passing
during the gale and which by now was no doubt lying at the bottom
of the ocean.
Next day the sky was still black and the sea running high, booming
and thundering and reluctant to calm down, even though the wind
was blowing less strongly. It then dropped completely and though
the waves were still rearing and tossing furiously, both boats went
out that afternoon. Zephyr returned at about four o’clock, having
caught nothing. While Tupain and Brisemotte were tying up in the
little harbour, La Queue stood on the beach, shaking his fist angrily
at the sea. And Monsieur Mouchel was expecting something from
them! Margot was there with half of Coqueville, watching the heavy
swell of the dying storm and sharing her father’s resentment against
the sea and the sky.
“Where’s the Whale?” someone asked.
“Over there, behind the point,” replied La Queue. “If that old tub
gets back safe and sound today, it’ll be lucky.”
His voice was full of scorn. He went on to suggest that it was quite
understandable for the Mahés to risk their lives like that. When you
haven’t got two pennies to rub together, you don’t have much choice.
As for him, he’d sooner let Monsieur Mouchel go begging.
41

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
Meanwhile Margot was scrutinizing the rocky point behind which
the Whale was hidden. Finally she asked her father:
“Did they catch anything?”
“Them!” he exclaimed. “Not a thing!”
Noticing that the Emperor was grinning, he calmed down and added
more quietly:
“J don’t know if they’ve caught anything but as they never do...”
“Perhaps they have caught something today after all,” said the
Emperor teasingly. “It has been known to happen.”
La Queue was about to make a heated retort when Father Radiguet
arrived and succeeded in soothing him. From the flat top of the church,
Radiguet had just caught a glimpse of the Whale which seemed to be in
pursuit of some large fish. This news created great excitement among
the villagers gathered on the beach, with the Mahé supporters hoping
for a miraculous catch and the Floches very keen for the boat to come
back empty-handed. Margot was craning her neck and looking out
to sea.
“There they are!” she exclaimed briefly.
And in fact a black speck could be seen beyond the point.
Everyone looked. It looked like a cork bobbing up and down on the
sea. The Emperor could not even see the black speck: you had to be
from Coqueville to recognize the Whale and its crew at that distance.
“Yes,” Margot went on, for she had the best eyes of anyone in the
village, “Fouasse and Rouget are rowing and the boy’s standing in the
bow.”
She called Delphin “the boy” to avoid mentioning him by name. Now
they were able to follow the course of the boat and try to understand its
strange manoeuvres. As the priest had said, it seemed to be pursuing a
fish which kept swimming away to escape. It was an extraordinary sight.
The Emperor thought that their net had probably been carried away but
La Queue exclaimed that they were just being lazy and footling about.
They wouldn’t be catching seals, that was for sure! The Floches all found
this a hilarious remark while the Mahés felt annoyed and pointed out
that anyway Rouget had guts and was risking his life while certain other
people stuck to dry land at the slightest puff of wind. Once again, Father
Radiguet had to intervene because fists were being clenched.
“What on earth are they up to!” exclaimed Margot suddenly. “They’ve
gone again!”
Ape

COQUEVILLE ON THE SPREE - CHAPTER 2
They all stopped glowering at each other and everyone scanned the
horizon. Once more the Whale was hidden behind the point. This time,
even La Queue was becoming uneasy. Since he was unable to explain
to himself what they were doing, and fearing that Rouget might really
be making a good catch, he was beside himself with rage. No one left
the beach even though there was nothing particular to see. They stayed
there for two hours, still waiting for the boat which kept appearing and
then vanishing. In the end it disappeared altogether. La Queue declared
it must have gone to the bottom and in his anger he even found himself
wishing in his heart of hearts that this might be true, and as Rouget’s
wife happened to be present with Brisemotte, he looked at them with
a conspiratorial grin and gave Tupain a friendly tap on the shoulder
to console him for the loss of his half-brother Fouasse. But he stopped
laughing when he saw his daughter Margot on tiptoe peering silently
into the distance.
“What do you think you’re doing here?” he said gruffly. “Off you go
back home... And have a care, Margot!”
She made no move but suddenly called out:
“Look, there they are!”
There was a cry of surprise. With her sharp eyes, Margot swore
that she couldn’t see a soul on board. No Rouget, no Fouasse, no-
body! The Whale was running before the wind as though aban-
doned, changing tack every minute as it bobbed lazily up and down.
Fortunately a breeze had sprung up from the west which was driving
the boat landwards, in an oddly capricious way, so that it yawed
first to port and then to starboard. The whole of Coqueville was by
now assembled on the beach. Everybody was calling out to everyone
else and there was not a woman or a girl left at home to prepare the
supper. It could only be some sort of disaster, something inexplicable
and so mysterious that they all felt quite at a loss. Rouget’s wife
thought quickly and decided that she ought to burst into tears. The
most Tupain could do was to look miserable. All the Mahes were
looking distressed while the Floches were trying hard to show some
decorum. Margot had sat down on the beach as if her legs had
suddenly collapsed.
“What on earth are you doing there?” exclaimed La Queue, seeing
her at his feet.
“I’m tired,” she said simply.
43

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
And she turned her head to look out to sea, holding her face in her
hands and peering through the tips of her fingers at the Whale bobbing
up and down even more lazily, like a cheerful boat that has had too
much to drink.
Theories were now flying thick and fast. Perhaps the three men had
fallen into the sea? But for all three to do that at once seemed very odd.
La Queue was trying to persuade people that the Whale had split open
like a rotten egg. But as she was still afloat, the others merely shrugged
their shoulders. Then he remembered that he was mayor and began to
talk about various formalities, as if the men were really drowned.
“What’s the point of talking like that!” exclaimed the Emperor.
“How could people die as stupidly as that? If they’d fallen in, Delphin
would have been here by now!”
They all had to agree; Delphin could swim like a fish. But in that
case, where on earth could the three men be? Everyone was shouting.
“I’m telling you it is!” “And I’m telling you it isn’t!” “Stupid!” “Stupid
yourself!” And they were getting to the stage of exchanging blows, so
that Father Radiguet was forced to make an appeal for the cessation of
hostilities while the Emperor hurriedly tried to restore order. Meanwhile
the boat continued to bob lazily up and down under everyone’s eyes.
It was as though she was dancing and laughing at them all and as she
drifted in on the tide, she seemed to be greeting the approaching land
with a series of slow, rhythmical curtsies. She was a crazy boat, that
was for sure!
Margot was still hiding her face and peering through her hands. A
rowing boat had just put out from the harbour to go to meet the Whale:
losing patience, Brisemotte seemed anxious to put an end to Marie
Rouget’s uncertainty. Now Coqueville’s whole attention was focused
on the rowing boat. They started shouting: Could he see anything?
The Whale kept coming on, still looking mysterious and saucy. At last
they saw him catch hold of one of the mooring ropes and stand up to
look into the boat. Then suddenly he burst into fits of laughter. They
were all mystified. What could he see that was so funny?
“Hi there! What’s up?” they shouted excitedly. His only reply was
to go on laughing even more loudly, making signs that they were soon
going to find out. Then he tied the Whale to his own boat and towed her
in. And the inhabitants of Coqueville were stunned at the extraordinary
sight that met their eyes. The three men, Rouget, Fouasse and Delphin,
44

COQUEVILLE ON THE SPREE + CHAPTER 2
were lying flat on their backs, fast asleep, blissfully snoring and dead
drunk. In the middle, there lay a small cask that had been stoved in,
a cask that had been full when they had picked it up. They had been
drinking from it and it must have been good stuff, because they had
drunk it all except for a litre or so that had spilled out into the boat and
become mixed with seawater.
“Oh, what a pig!” cried Rouget’s wife and stopped snivelling.
“Well, that’s a fine catch, I must say,” said La Queue, putting on a
dignified air.
“Hang on!” said the Emperor. “People catch what they can and after
all, they did catch a barrel at least, which is more than those who didn’t
catch anything.”
Piqued by this remark, the mayor said no more. But Coqueville’s other
inhabitants were commenting excitedly. Now they could understand!
When boats get drunk, they prance about, just like human beings, and
that boat had certainly had a bellyful! The tipsy old so-and-so! She’d
been zigzagging about just like a drunk who couldn’t find his way home.
And some were laughing at it and some were annoyed, for the Mahés
found it funny and the Floches thought it disgusting. They all gathered
round the Whale, peering open-eyed at the three happy fellows snoring
away with smiles all over their faces, completely oblivious to the crowd
bending over them. Neither the insults nor the laughter could greatly
disturb them. Rouget was unable to hear his wife accusing him of
drinking the lot. Fouasse did not feel the sly kicks in his ribs being
given him by his brother Tupain. As for Delphin, he looked charming,
with his fair hair, pink cheeks and air of rapturous delight. Margot had
stood up and was silently contemplating the young man with a hard
look in her eyes.
“Better get them to bed!” a voice cried.
But at that very moment, Delphin started to open his eyes and, still
with his blissfully happy expression, began to look around at the crowd
of people watching him. At once, everybody started questioning him,
so excitedly that he felt quite bewildered, especially as he was still as
drunk as a lord.
“Well, what’s all the fuss?” he stammered. “It’s a little cask. There
wasn’t any fish, so we caught a little barrel.”
That was all he would say. Each time he said it, he added simply:
“Tt was jolly good.”
4)

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
“But what was in it?” they asked him crossly.
“Oh, I don’t know. It was jolly good.”
By now the whole of Coqueville was bursting with curiosity. They
all stuck their noses into the boat and sniffed hard. There was unan-
imous agreement that it was a liqueur of some sort but nobody could
guess what liqueur. The Emperor, who flattered himself that he had
drunk everything that a man can drink, said that he was going to
see. Solemnly he took in the hollow of his hand a little of the liquid
floating in the bottom of the boat. The crowd fell suddenly silent and
waited expectantly. However, after taking a sip, the Emperor shook his
head uncertainly, as if still in doubt. He tasted it twice again, with a
surprised and worried look on his face, more and more embarrassed.
Eventually he was forced to admit:
“T don’t know... It’s queer. I expect I’d be able to say if it wasn’t for
the seawater. But my word, it really is very queer.”
People looked at each other in amazement that even the Emperor
didn’t dare to pass a definite judgement on what it was. Coqueville
eyed the little cask with respect.
“It was jolly good,” said Delphin once again. He seemed to be
laughing up his sleeve.
Then, with a broad grin and a wave of his hand, he added:
“If you want some, there’s still some left... I saw lots of little
barrels... little... little barrels...”
He kept on humming the words like a refrain from some lullaby,
looking fondly at Margot, whom he had only just caught sight of. She
lifted her hand angrily but he did not blink an eyelid and waited for the
slap with a tender look in his eyes.
Intrigued by the thought of this mysterious, delicious drink, Father
Radiguet also dipped his finger into the bottom of the boat and
sucked it. Like the Emperor, he too shook his head uncertainly: no,
he couldn’t place it, it was most surprising. One thing only they all
agreed on: the cask must have come from the vessel in distress which
they had noticed on Sunday and which must have been wrecked.
English ships often carried cargoes of liqueurs and fine wines of that
sort to Grandport.
The light was slowly fading and the villagers at last started to make
their way home in the dark. Only La Queue stayed behind, sunk in
thought, turning over in his mind an idea that he wanted to keep to
46

COQUEVILLE ON THE SPREE - CHAPTER 2
himself. He stopped and listened for the last time to Delphin who was
being carried away, still gently singing:
“Little barrels... little barrels... if you want some, there are still
some left!”
3
sih sHA T NIGHT the weather changed completely. When Coqueville
woke up next day, the sun was shining brightly, the sea was as
calm as a millpond, spread out like a piece of green satin. And it was
warm, a golden autumnal warmth.
La Queue was first out of bed in the village, his mind still in confusion
from last night’s dreams. He stood for a long time looking out to sea,
to left and right. Finally; he said irritably that he supposed that they’d
better keep Monsieur Mouchel satisfied and immediately set out with
Tupain and Brisemotte, threatening Margot that he would tickle her
ribs if she didn’t watch her step. As Zephyr was leaving harbour and he
saw the Whale riding heavily up and down at her moorings, he cheered
up somewhat and shouted:
“Well, anyway there’ll be nothing doing from them today... Blow
out the candle, lads, that drowsy lot are all in bed!”
As soon as he was out at sea, La Queue set his nets, after which he went
to look at his pots, that is his long wicker lobster pots, in which you can
occasionally catch red mullet as well. But despite the calm sea, his search
went unrewarded; all the pots were empty except the last one in which,
as if to rub salt into the wound, they found one tiny mackerel which he
angrily flung back into the sea. That was the way it went: sometimes
weeks would pass and the fish would give Coqueville a miss, and it
always happened when Monsieur Mouchel was keen to buy. When La
Queue pulled his nets up an hour later, the only thing he had caught was
a bunch of seaweed. He clenched his fists and swore; it was all the more
irritating because the Atlantic was unbelievably calm and was lying lazily
stretched out, drowsing under a blue sky like a sheet of burnished silver,
on which Zephyr slid slowly and gently along on an even keel. La Queue
decided that he would make for harbour after he had dropped his nets
once more. He would return and have another look in the afternoon, and
he threatened God and all his saints in outrageously blasphemous terms.
47

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
Meanwhile Rouget, Fouasse and Delphin were still sound asleep and
did not rouse themselves until lunchtime. They could not remember
anything except that they were vaguely aware of having enjoyed an
amazing treat such as they had never known before. That afternoon,
when they were down at the harbour, the Emperor tried to question the
three of them, now that they had regained full use of their faculties.
Perhaps it was something like a sort of brandy mixed with liquorice
juice? Or could it be better described as a kind of sweet rum, with
a burnt flavour? First they said yes, then they said no. The Emperor
half suspected it might be ratafia* but he couldn’t swear to it. Rouget
and his crew were too exhausted to go fishing, especially as they knew
that La Queue had gone out unsuccessfully that morning; so they were
thinking of waiting until the following day before going to look at their
pots. They sat with parched throats slumped on blocks of stone, gazing
at the incoming tide and barely able to keep awake. Then suddenly
Delphin sat up, sprang on to the block of stone and, looking far out to
sea, shouted:
“Look over there, guv’nor!”
“What is it?” asked Rouget, stretching himself.
“A barrel.”
Their eyes lit up as the other two sprang to their feet and scanned
the horizon.
“W/here is it, lad? Where is the barrel?” asked Rouget excitedly.
“See that black dot over there, on the left?”
The others could not see anything. Then Rouget uttered an oath:
“Christ Almighty!”
He had just caught sight of the barrel, no bigger than a lentil, against
the pale sea, caught in the slanting rays of the setting sun. He ran down
to the Whale with Delphin and Fouasse sprinting after him like startled
rabbits, scattering showers of pebbles as they ran.
As the Whale was clearing the harbour mouth, the news of the
sighting of the barrel spread like wildfire and the women and children
rushed down to the beach. People were shouting:
“A barrel, a barrel!”
“Can you see it? The current’s carrying it towards Grandport!”
“Hurry up! That’s it, on the left. A barrel!”
And Coqueville streamed down on to the beach, with the children
turning cartwheels and the women holding up their skirts with both
48

COQUEVILLE ON THE SPREE - CHAPTER 3
hands so as to scramble down more quickly. Very soon the whole village
was assembled on the beach, just as the evening before.
Margot appeared briefly and then ran back home as fast as she
could to warn her father, who was discussing a summons with the
Emperor. In the end La Queue came out livid with rage and said to the
gamekeeper:
“Stop bothering me! Rouget must’ve sent you along to waste my
time. Well, he’s not going to get that one, you’ll see!”
When he saw the crew of the Whale already three hundred yards off
shore rowing madly towards the black dot bobbing up and down in the
distance, he became even more enraged.
“No, they’re not going to get it! Over my dead body!”
And now Cogueville saw a splendid sight, a wild race between
Zephyr and the Whale. When the crew of the latter saw the other boat
leaving harbour, realizing the danger, they redoubled their efforts.
Although they had a start of some four hundred yards, it was still an
even contest, because Zephyr was far lighter and faster. Excitement
on the beach was rising to fever pitch. The Mahés and the Floches had
instinctively formed into two groups and were following the changing
fortunes of the race with passionate interest, each cheering its own boat
on. At first the Whale held on to its lead but once Zephyr was properly
underway, she could be seen to be steadily overhauling the other boat.
The Whale put in a final spurt and for a few minutes managed to hold
her advantage, only to be overhauled again as Zephyr came up on her
at tremendous speed. From that moment onwards, it became apparent
that the two boats would reach the barrel roughly together. Victory
would depend on circumstances and the slightest error of judgement
would determine the issue.
“The Whale, the Whale!” the Mahés were yelling.
The words froze on their lips. Just as the Whale was almost touching
the barrel, Zephyr boldly slipped in between and pushed the barrel
away to the portside, where La Queue harpooned it with a boathook.
“Zephyr! Zephyr!” howled the Floches.
And as the Emperor muttered something about “foul play” under his
breath, a few rough words were exchanged. Margot was clapping her
hands. Father Radiguet, who had come down to the beach holding his
breviary, uttered a profound remark which suddenly dowsed everyone’s
excitement and filled them all with alarm.
49

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
“Perhaps they’re going to drink the lot, too,” he muttered sadly.
Out at sea a violent squabble had arisen between the Whale and
Zephyr. Rouget was accusing La Queue of being a thief while the latter
replied by calling Rouget a ne’er-do-well. The two men even picked
up their oars to knock each other on the head and the race showed
signs of turning into a naval battle. As it was, shaking their fists at
each other, they promised to settle the matter ashore, threatening to
slit each other’s throats as soon as they were on land.
“What a shyster,” grunted Rouget. “You know, that cask was bigger
than the one yesterday... It’s yellow, too. It must be something special.”
Then, in a resigned voice:
“Let’s go and look at the pots. Perhaps there’ll be some lobsters.”
And the Whale moved ponderously away to the point on the left.
On board Zephyr, La Queue had been obliged to speak sharply to
Tupain and Brisemotte on the subject of the barrel, for the boathook
had loosened one of the hoops and a red liquid was oozing out; the two
young men took some of it on the tip of their finger and licked: it was
delicious. Surely there wouldn’t be any harm in trying just a glass of it?
But La Queue put his foot down; he stowed the barrel away and said
that the first person to try and have another lick would hear from him.
Once ashore, they’d see.
“Shall we go and have a look at the pots, then?” asked Tupain sulkily.
“Yes, in a minute,” replied La Queue. “There’s no hurry.”
He too had been casting fond glances at the cask and in a sudden fit
of listlessness, he felt tempted to return to harbour straight away to see
what its contents tasted like. He was bored with fish.
“All right,” he said after a pause. “Let’s get back, it’s getting late.
We'll look at the pots tomorrow.”
But just as he was giving up any idea of fishing, he caught sight of
another barrel to starboard, a very tiny cask which was floating upright
and spinning like a top. That was the end of any thoughts of fishing
nets or lobster pots; they weren’t mentioned again. Zephyr set off in
pursuit of the cask which he picked up quite easily this time.
Meanwhile the Whale was engaged ina similar venture. When Rouget
had already pulled up five completely empty lobster pots, Delphin, still
on the lookout, shouted that he could see something. But it didn’t look
like a barrel, it was too long.
“Tt’s a piece of wood,” said Fouasse.
50

COQUEVILLE ON THE SPREE * CHAPTER 3
Rouget let his sixth lobster pot slide back into the sea without
bothering to pull it completely out of the water.
“Let’s go and have a look all the same,” he said.
As they approached, it seemed to them like a plank, a crate or a tree
trunk. Then they gave a cry of joy. It was a real barrel but a very queer
one, a sort they had never seen before. It looked like a tube bulging in
the middle with both ends closed by a layer of plaster.
“Isn't it strange!” exclaimed Rouget delightedly. “I want the Emperor
to taste this one... Come on, you two, let’s get back!”
They agreed not to broach the barrel straight away and the Whale
returned to harbour just as Zephyr was tying up. The villagers were all
still waiting expectantly on the beach. Cheers greeted this unhoped-
for catch of three barrels. The young boys flung their caps into the air
while the women scurried off to fetch some glasses. They immediately
decided to sample the drinks on the spot. Any flotsam and jetsam
belonged to the whole community, there was no disputing that! How-
ever, they gathered in two groups, the Mahés with Rouget, while the
Floches formed a circle round La Queue.
“The first glass is for the Emperor!” cried Rouget. “Tell us what it
is!”
The liqueur was a lovely golden yellow. The gamekeeper raised his
glass, looked at it, sniffed it and decided to take a sip.
“It’s from Holland,” he announced after a long pause.
He offered no further information, and the Mahés all drank with
due deference. It was slightly viscous and they were surprised by the
flowery taste. The women thought it was very good; the men would have
preferred a little less sugar. However, in the end, after a third or fourth
glass, it did seem quite strong. The more they drank, the better they liked
it. The men were becoming merry and the women felt a bit funny.
Meanwhile, despite his recent exchange of words with the mayor, the
Emperor was now hanging round the Floche group. The larger barrel
contained a dark-red liqueur, while the tiny cask held a liquid as clear
as a mountain stream, and it was this last that was the deadliest of
them, really peppery and strong enough to take the skin off the roof
of your mouth. None of the Floches was able to place either the red or
the clear one. Yet some of them were fairly expert and were annoyed
not to know the name of the liqueurs that they were drinking with such
enjoyment.
51

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
“Here you are, Emperor, see what you think of this,” La Queue called
out at last, making the first move.
The Emperor, who had been hoping for such an invitation, once
again assumed his role as taster-in-chief. Having tried the red one, he
said:
“There’s some orange in it.”
For the clear one, he merely said:
“That’s a real beauty!”
That was all they could get out of him, because all he did was to keep
nodding his head with a knowing look and a pleased expression on his
face, like a man who has just done a good job.
Father Radiguet alone seemed unconvinced. He wanted to put a
name to them and since, according to him, he had the names on the tip
of his tongue, in order to complete his information he kept emptying
one glass after another, repeating as he did so:
“Now, wait a second, I know what it is... I’ll be able to tell you in a
minute.”
Meanwhile, everyone was becoming merry, the Mahés as well as
the Floches. The latter were laughing particularly loudly because they
were mixing their drinks and this made them all the merrier. Both
groups were, however, keeping strictly to themselves and not offering
any drinks to the other, although they were casting friendly glances at
one another, but they were ashamed to admit openly that they would
like to try the other group’s drink, which was surely better than their
own. Despite their rivalry, the two brothers Tupain and Fouasse spent
the whole evening in close proximity to one another without once
showing signs of wanting to square up to each other. It was noticed,
too, that Rouget and his wife were drinking out of the same glass. As
for Margot, she was serving drinks to the Floches and as she kept filling
the glasses too full, the surplus spilt on to her fingers which she was
continually licking, so that, although obeying her father’s orders not
to drink, she had become tipsy, like the girls during the grape harvest.
It was not unbecoming; on the contrary, she was looking all pink and
her eyes were sparkling like candles.
The sun was setting; the evening was soft and springlike. Coqueville
had demolished the contents of all three barrels and no one was
thinking of going home to supper; they were too comfortable on the
beach. When it was quite dark, Margot, sitting some distance away
52

COQUEVILLE ON THE SPREE + CHAPTER 3
from the others, felt someone breathing down the back of her neck: it
was Delphin, very merry, crawling on all fours and prowling round her
like a wolf. She stifled a cry in order not to draw her father’s attention,
for he would certainly have booted his behind.
“Do go away, stupid!” she muttered, half laughing and half annoyed,
“You'll get caught!”
4
EXT DAY, when Coqueville awoke, the sun was already high in the
heavens. It was an even warmer day and the sea lay stretched out
sleepily under a cloudless sky. It was one of those lazy sorts of day when
it’s wonderful not to have to do anything. It was Wednesday and until
lunchtime Coqueville was recovering from its indulgence of the previous
evening. Then everyone went down to the beach to take a look.
Fish, Madame Dufeu, Monsieur Mouchel and everything connected
with them were forgotten. La Queue didn’t even mention going to look
at their lobster pots. At about three o’clock they sighted some barrels,
four of them, bobbing up and down in front of the village. Zephyr and
the Whale set off in pursuit but as there was enough for all, they didn’t
squabble and each boat took its share.
At six o’clock, after exploring the bay, Rouget and La Queue came
back with three barrels each. And once more, they went on the spree.
The women had brought tables down to the beach to make things more
comfortable. They even fetched benches and set up two open-air cafes,
just like those in Grandport. The Mahés sat on the left, the Floches on
the right, separated from each other by a mound of sand. However,
that evening the Emperor kept going from one group to the other,
carrying round glassfuls of each liqueur, so that everybody could taste
the contents of each of the six barrels. By about nine o’clock, everyone
was much merrier than on the previous evening. And next morning,
no one in Coqueville could ever remember how they had managed to
get to bed.
On Thursday, Zephyr and the Whale picked up only two barrels;
that is, two barrels each: but they were enormous. On Friday, the catch
was superb, and beyond their wildest dreams: seven barrels, three for
Rouget and four for La Queue. And now for Coqueville there began
53

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
the Golden Age. Nobody did a stroke of work. The fishermen slept
off the effects of the night before and did not wake till noon. Then
they would go down for a stroll along the beach and look longingly
out to sea. Their only concern was which liqueur would come in on
the tide. They would sit there for hours, gazing out to sea, and a cry
of joy would go up as soon as a barrel hove into view. From the top of
the rock, the women and children would wave their arms about wildly
at the sight of the tiniest clump of seaweed bobbing up and down in
the waves. Zephyr and the Whale held themselves in readiness to leave
at a moment’s notice. They sailed out and scoured the bay, fishing for
barrels in the same way that people fish for tunny, spurning the carefree
mackerel which disported themselves in the sun and the soles floating
idly at the surface. Coqueville followed their expeditions from the
beach, chuckling with delight. Then, when evening came, they drank
their catch.
What really attracted Coqueville’s fancy was that the barrels
were never-ending. Whenever there seemed to be none left, still they
came. The lost ship must have had a wonderful cargo on board and
Coqueville, which had become cheerfully selfish, joked about the
wrecked vessel: it must have been a proper liqueur cellar, large enough
to make every fish in the Atlantic tipsy! What is more, they never
caught two identical barrels, for they were of every size, shape and
colour, and in every barrel there was a different liqueur, so that the
Emperor was in a permanent haze. He had drunk everything that was
going and now he was all at sea! La Queue declared that he had never
seen such a cargo in his whole life. Father Radiguet expressed the view
that it must have been ordered by some native king wanting to set up
a cellar. As a matter of fact, Coqueville was so drowsy and fuddled by
drinking so many unknown liqueurs that it had given up any attempt
to understand.
The ladies preferred the cordials: moka, cacao, peppermint and
vanilla. One evening, Marie Rouget drank so much anisette that she
was ill. Margot and the other girls went for curacao, bénédictine,
trappistine and chartreuse. The blackcurrant syrup was reserved for
the children. The men, of course, enjoyed it most when they had picked
up brandies, rums and Holland gins, the sort of stuff that stings the
palate. And then there were the surprise items. A cask of resinated raki
from Chios threw Coqueville into a state of complete bewilderment;
54

COQUEVILLE ON THE SPREE - CHAPTER 4
they thought that they’d come across a barrel of turpentine; all the
same, they drank it up, because it’s a shame to waste anything, but
they talked about it long afterwards. Arak from Batavia, caraway seed
schnapps from Sweden, tuica calugaresca from Romania and Serbian
slivovitz* also threw Coqueville’s ideas on what you can pour down
your throat into utter confusion. Basically, they betrayed a weakness
for kimmel and kirsch, the sort of spirits that are as clear as crystal
and powerful enough to fell an ox. How was it possible for such
wonderful drinks to have been invented? Up till now, Coqueville had
had experience of only the rawest of spirits, and not everyone had
known them. And so their imagination began to run riot and they
felt like going down on their knees to worship such an inexhaustible
variety of intoxicating liquor. Fancy being able to get drunk every day
on something new that you didn’t even know the name of! It was like
a fairy story, a shower of nectar, a fountain spurting with every sort of
extraordinary liquid, distillations scented with the fruits and flowers
of the whole of creation!
And so on Friday evening, there were seven barrels set up on the beach
and the whole of Coqueville was there as well; indeed, the villagers
were there all the time for, thanks to the mild weather, they were all
living on the beach. Never had they known such a gorgeous week in
September. They had been on the spree since Monday and there was
no reason for it not to last for ever if divine Providence continued its
supply of barrels. Father Radiguet saw the hand of God in all this. All
business was suspended; why toil and sweat when pleasure was handed
to you, in a bottle, while you slept? They had all become members of
the leisured classes, people who were in a position to drink expensive
liqueurs without having to worry who was footing the bill. With their
hands in their pockets, the inhabitants of Coqueville lounged about
in the sun awaiting their evening treat. As a matter of fact, they were
never sober; kiimmel, kirsch and ratafia were the links in an unbroken
chain of jollification. In the space of seven days, Coqueville was
being inflamed by gin, made sentimental by curacao and hilarious by
brandy. And they were as innocent and as ignorant as babes in arms,
drinking everything the good Lord provided with the simple faith of
true believers.
It was on Friday that the Mahés and the Floches started fraternizing.
Everyone was very merry that evening. The barriers between them
Pp)

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
had already begun to crumble the previous day, when some of the
tipsiest among them had kicked away the mound of sand separating
the two groups. There was only one further step needed. The Floches
were busily emptying their four barrels while the Mahés were similarly
engaged in finishing off their three small casks, which happened to
contain liqueurs of the same colours as the French flag, red, white, and
blue. The Floches were very envious of the blue one because a blue
liqueur seemed to them something quite out of the ordinary. Now that
he was never sober, La Queue had become extremely genial and he
suddenly went across unsteadily, with a glass in his hand, realizing that
as mayor, it was up to him to make the first move.
“Look, Rouget,” he said, stumbling somewhat over his words,
“would you care to have a drink with me?”
“T don’t mind if I do,” replied Rouget, swaying with emotion.
And they fell on each other’s necks. At this touching sight, everyone
burst into tears and the Mahés and the Floches embraced each other
after being at daggers drawn for three centuries. Father Radiguet,
greatly stirred, again spoke of the hand of God. They drank each
other’s health in the three liqueurs, red, white and blue.
“Vive la France!” the Emperor cried.
The blue one was no good at all, the white one just passable, but
the red one was terrific. After that, they set about the Floches’ barrels.
Then they started dancing. As there was no band, some of the young
men obliged by whistling and clapping their hands. This set the girls
going. It was a proper binge. The seven barrels were all placed in one
long line and everyone could choose the one he liked best. Those who
had had enough lay down on the sand and had a nap; when they woke
up, they started again. The dancers gradually spread out until there was
dancing all over the beach. This open-air hop went on till midnight.
The sea lapped gently and the stars shone brightly in the calm of the
fathomless depths of the heavens. It was like some primitive tribe, in
the infancy of the world, peacefully cradled in the joyous intoxication
of their first barrel of brandy.
However, Coqueville still went home when it was time to go to bed.
When there was nothing left to drink, the Mahés and the Floches,
supporting and carrying each other as best they could, eventually
made their way back to their houses. On Saturday, the celebration
went on until nearly two o’clock in the morning. During the day, they
56

COQUEVILLE ON THE SPREE + CHAPTER 4
had caught six barrels, two of which were enormous. Fouasse and
Tupain nearly came to blows and Tupain, who became aggressive
when drunk, threatened to do his brother in. But everyone was
disgusted at such an exhibition, the Floches as well as the Mahés.
Was it sensible to go on squabbling like that when the whole village
was overflowing with brotherly love? So they forced the two brothers
to drink each other’s health, which they reluctantly did. The Emperor
promised himself to keep an eye on them. The Rouget couple were
not very happy either. When Marie had been drinking anisette, she
allowed Brisemotte to take liberties that were not to her husband’s
liking, all the more so as drink had made him also amorously
inclined. Father Radiguet had tried to pour oil on troubled waters by
preaching the forgiveness of sins, but everyone was apprehensive at
the possibility of an outburst.
“Ah well,” said La Queue, “things will sort themselves out. If there’s
a good catch tomorrow, you’ll see... Your very good health!”
However, La Queue himself was not entirely guiltless. He was still
keeping a sharp eye on Delphin and trying to kick his backside every time
he saw him sidling up to Margot. The Emperor indignantly pointed out
that there was no sense in trying to prevent two young folk from having
fun but La Queue still swore that he’d see his daughter dead rather than
let Delphin have her. Anyway, Margot didn’t want him.
“That’s right, isn’t it?” he shouted. “You’re too proud ever to marry
a tramp, aren’t you?”
“No, I never would, Papa!” Margot invariably replied.
On Saturday, Margot drank a good deal of a very sweet liqueur. You
can’t imagine how sweet it was. As Margot was quite unsuspecting,
she soon found herself sitting on the ground beside the barrel. She was
laughing happily to herself: it was heavenly, she could see stars and
hear dance tunes singing in her ears. Then it was that Delphin slid up
to her under the cover of the barrel and took her hand.
“Will you, Margot?” he asked her.
“It’s Papa who doesn’t want me to,” she replied, still smiling.
“Oh, that doesn’t matter,” retorted the boy. “Old people never do,
you know... As long as you want to...”
And he boldly planted a kiss on her neck. She squirmed with pleasure
and little shivers ran down her back.
“Stop it, you’re tickling...”
SY

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
But she made no mention of giving him a slap. For one thing, she
couldn’t have done it, because her hands had gone all weak, while for
another, she was finding those little kisses on her neck rather nice. It
was like the liqueur which was filling her with a delicious feeling of
languor. After a while, she twisted her head and stretched out her chin,
like a cat.
“Look,” she said in a voice that trembled, “I’m itching just there,
under my ear... Oh, that’s wonderful...”
They had both forgotten La Queue. Fortunately the Emperor was on
the alert. He drew Father Radiguet’s attention to them.
“Look over there, Father. They’d better get married.”
“Morality would certainly suggest so,” observed the priest sen-
tentiously.
And he promised to see what he could do about arranging it next
day: he would personally have a word with La Queue. Meanwhile La
Queue himself had drunk so much that the Emperor and the priest had
to carry him home. On the way, they tried to make him see reason with
regard to Delphin and his daughter, but all they could get out of him
was grunts. Delphin followed behind them, taking Margot home under
the bright starry sky.
Next day, Zephyr and the Whale had already picked up seven barrels
by four o’clock. At six o’clock they caught two more. That made nine
in all. And so Coqueville celebrated the Sabbath day. It was the seventh
day of inebriation and it was a celebration to end all celebrations, a
beano such as no one had ever seen before nor would ever see again.
Mention this to anyone from Lower Normandy and they’ll chuckle
and say:
“Ah yes, what a binge they had in Coqueville!”
5
M EANWHILE, even as early as Tuesday, Monsieur Mouchel had ex-
pressed surprise at seeing neither Rouget nor La Queue. What
the devil were they up to? The sea was calm, they should have made a
splendid catch. Perhaps they were waiting in the hope of getting a big
haul of lobsters and sole which they could bring over all together. So he
decided to be patient and see what happened on Wednesday.
58

COQUEVILLE ON THE SPREE * CHAPTER 5
But on Wednesday, Monsieur Mouchel got cross. It must be remem-
bered that Dufeu’s widow was an awkward customer; it did not take
long for her to become abusive. So although he was a fine, upstanding
young fellow, well-built, with a mop of fair hair, she made him quake
in his shoes, despite his secret dreams of one day making her his wife;
he was thus always careful to show her every attention while reserving
the right to bring her to heel with a good slap round the face if he
ever became the boss. Well, that Wednesday morning, the widow raged
and swore, complaining that no fish was being delivered and putting
the blame on him for gadding about with the local girls instead of
concentrating on whiting and mackerel, of which there should have
been a plentiful supply. Thus provoked, Monsieur Mouchel declared
that it was Coqueville’s fault for not having kept their word. For a
brief moment, Madame. Dufeu’s surprise at the news of such strange
behaviour made her forget her anger. What on earth was Coqueville
thinking of? They’d never done that sort of thing before. But she
hastened to add that she didn’t give a damn about Coqueville, that it
was Monsieur Mouchel’s responsibility and if he kept on being taken
in by the fishermen, she’d have to decide what measures to take. This
remark made the young man very uneasy and he consigned Rouget
and La Queue to the bottomless pit. But perhaps they’d come next day.
Next day was Thursday and still neither of them put in an
appearance. In the late afternoon, a despairing Monsieur Mouchel
climbed up to the rock to the left of Grandport, where he had a view
of Coqueville in the distance, together with its yellow strip of beach.
He stayed looking for a long time. It seemed peaceful enough under the
sun. Wisps of smoke were coming out of the chimneys: no doubt wives
were getting the supper ready. Monsieur Mouchel saw that Coqueville
was still there and that it hadn’t been crushed by a fall of rock. He was
more mystified than ever. Just as he was about to go down, he thought
he could see two dark spots in the bay, the Whale and Zephyr. He went
back and reassured the widow: Coqueville was out fishing.
Night came and went; it was Friday and still no trace of Coqueville.
Monsieur Mouchel climbed a dozen times up to the rock. He
was beginning to lose his nerve; Madame Dufeu was treating him
abominably and he could think of no possible explanation to give her.
Coqueville was still there, lazily basking in the sun like a lizard. But
this time Monsieur Mouchel could not see any smoke. The village
59

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
seemed dead. Had they all crawled into their holes and given up the
ghost? Certainly, the beach seemed to be swarming with people but
that could well be heaps of seaweed brought in by the tide.
On Saturday, still nobody appeared. The widow had stopped
shouting and was sitting there tight-lipped and with eyes set hard.
Monsieur Mouchel spent two hours up on his rock. He was becoming
curious and beginning to feel that he must discover for himself why the
village seemed so deserted.
Finally, the sight of those tumbledown old cottages blissfully drows-
ing in the sun irritated him so much that he resolved to leave very early
on Monday, so as to be there by nine o’clock in the morning.
Getting to Coqueville was no easy matter. Monsieur Mouchel
decided to go by land, so that he could descend on the village unawares.
He drove in a horse and cart as far as Robigneux, where he left them
in a barn, since it would have been foolhardy to risk driving down the
gullies. He set off at a steady pace for Coqueville, a distance of more
than four miles over the roughest of tracks. The road, in fact, runs
through a wild and picturesque landscape, twisting and turning as it
descends between two enormous sloping walls of rock, so narrow in
parts that three men could not walk abreast. Further on, it ran along
a sheer drop, until the gorge suddenly opened out to give views over
the immense blue horizon and the sea. But Monsieur Mouchel was in
no mood to admire the landscape and he swore as the boulders rolled
away under his feet. It was all Coqueville’s fault and he promised to
show them the rough edge of his tongue when he arrived. He was now
nearly there and as he came round the last bend in the rock he caught
sight of the twenty or so houses which comprised the village, huddled
together against the cliff-face.
It was just striking nine. The sky was blue and it was so warm that
you could have thought it was June. The air was clear and there was a
golden glow and a cool salty smell of sea. Monsieur Mouchel set off
down the only street of the village, which he had often visited, and
as he had to pass Rouget’s house, he went in. The house was empty.
Then, he had a brief look into Tupain’s, Fouasse’s and Brisemotte’s
cottages. Not a soul to be seen; the doors were all open but the rooms
were empty. What could it mean? A cold shiver began to run down his
spine. Then he thought of the local authorities: the Emperor would
certainly be able to give him information. But the Emperor’s house
60

COQUEVILLE ON THE SPREE + CHAPTER 5
was as empty as all the rest — so even the gamekeeper wasn’t there!
By now, the silence of the deserted village filled him with terror. He
hurried on to the mayor’s house where another surprise awaited him.
The inside of the house was in a frightful mess: beds left unmade for
the last three days, dirty crockery lying about all over the place, chairs
tipped up as if there had been a fight. Now completely unnerved and
with thoughts of some dreadful cataclysm running through his mind,
Monsieur Mouchel made for the church, determined to leave no stone
unturned, but the priest was no more visible than the mayor. Religion
had vanished together with any civil authority.
Coqueville had been abandoned and left with not a breath of life, not
even a dog or a cat. And not even poultry, for the hens had left as well.
Absolutely nothing at all: empty and silent, Coqueville lay plunged in
slumber beneath the vast blue sky.
Heavens above! It wasn’t surprising if Coqueville wasn’t supplying
any fish! Coqueville had moved out, Coqueville was dead! The police
must be informed. Monsieur Mouchel was deeply moved by this
mysterious disaster, but then, thinking that he might as well go down
as far as the beach, he uttered a sudden cry. There, flat out on the sand,
lay the entire population. He thought at first that there must have been
a general massacre, but the sound of heavy snoring quickly disabused
him. On Sunday night, Coqueville had celebrated until such a late hour
that its inhabitants had been quite incapable of going home to bed. So
they had slept on the beach, in the place where they had toppled over
around the nine barrels of liqueur, now completely empty.
Yes, the whole of Coqueville lay there plunged in sleep, and I mean
by that the women and children and old men, as well as the working
men. There was not one still on his feet. Some were lying face down,
some on their backs, others lay curled up. As you make your bed, so
you must lie on it. And so the whole lot were scattered all over the
beach where their drunkenness had landed them, like a handful of
leaves blown at random by the wind. Some of the men had tipped
over with their heads hanging down while some of the women were
showing their backsides. It was all free and easy, a dormitory in the
open air, good honest folk and not a trace of embarrassment, because
embarrassment is the enemy of enjoyment. There happened to be a
new moon and s0, thinking that they had blown out their candles, the
inhabitants of Coqueville had let themselves go. Day had come and
61

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
the sun was shining brightly, straight into the sleepers’ eyes, but not
one eye blinked. They were all sleeping like logs and beaming all over
their faces with that wonderful innocence of the drunk. The hens, too,
must have come down early to peck at the barrels, because they too
were lying on the sand, dead drunk. There were even five cats and three
dogs, flat on their backs with their paws in the air, tipsy from licking
the sugary dregs left in the glasses.
Monsieur Mouchel picked his way through the sleepers for a while,
taking care not to disturb anyone. He realized what had happened
because they had picked up some casks from the wrecked English vessel
in Grandport. His anger had completely evaporated. What a touching
sight it was! Coqueville was reconciled and the Mahés were lying down
with the Floches... When the last glass had been drained, the worst
enemies had fallen into each other’s arms: Tupain and Fouasse were
snoring away hand in hand, like brothers who henceforth would find it
impossible to quarrel over legacies. As for the Rougets, they offered an
even more charming picture: Marie lay sleeping between Rouget and
Brisemotte, as though saying that from now on they would live happily
like that, for ever afterwards...
But there was one group that provided a particularly touching family
scene: Delphin and Margot were lying with their arms round each
other’s necks, cheek to cheek, with their lips still open in a kiss, while
the Emperor was lying crosswise at their feet, keeping guard over them;
La Queue was sound asleep and snoring away like any happy father
who had found a husband for his daughter, and Father Radiguet, who
had toppled over like all the rest, was holding his arms outspread as
though blessing them. In sleep, Margot was still holding up her pretty
little face like the muzzle of a lovesick cat who enjoys being tickled
under its chin.
So the spree ended in a wedding. And later on, Monsieur Mouchel
himself married the widow and tanned her hide as he had promised.
Mention all this to anyone from Lower Normandy and they’l]
chuckle and say:
“Ah yes, what a binge they had in Coqueville!”
62

Dead Men Tell No Tales”
i!
DIED ON A SATURDAY MORNING AT SIX A.M., after an illness lasting three
days. My poor wife was rummaging in a trunk for some bed linen.
When she stood up and saw me stretched out, all stiff, with my eyes
open, not breathing, she rushed over to my bedside, thinking that I had
fainted. She felt my hands and bent over to look into my face. Then,
horror-struck, she burst into tears and stammered distractedly:
“Dear God! Dear God! He’s dead!”
I could hear everything but the sounds were muffled and seemed
to be coming from a great distance. My left eye was still capable of
perceiving a vague gleam, a milky sort of light in which objects were
melting into one another, but my right eye was completely paralysed.
My whole being was in a sort of syncope, as if I had been struck by
lightning. I was reduced to a state of complete inertia; not one muscle
of my body would obey me. And in this state of numbness, all that
remained was an ability to think, sluggishly but still with complete
clarity.
My poor Marguerite had fallen on her knees beside my bed and she
was sobbing in a heart-rending voice:
“Dear God! He’s dead! He’s dead!”
Could this strange state of torpor be death? This complete physical
impotence which still left my intelligence capable of functioning?
Was it my soul still lingering on inside my skull before it took flight
for ever? I had been subject to fits since earliest childhood and had
alraost succumbed to bouts of fever on two occasions, when still quite
young. After that, those around me had become used to my chronic
bad health, and when I had had to take to my bed in our room in
the furnished hotel in the Rue Dauphine* the day after our arrival in
Paris, I myself had dissuaded Marguerite from sending for a doctor.
I thought all I needed was a little rest; 1w as merely tired out after the
journey. Nevertheless, I was in a dreadfully agitated state of mind.
63

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
We had come up from our home in the country at extremely short
notice, almost penniless, with barely enough money to see us through
to my first month’s salary in the government office job to which I had
just been appointed. And now I had died from this unexpected attack
of fever.
Could this really be death? Pd always imagined that it would be so
much darker, so much quieter than this. Even as a lad I had been afraid
of dying. Being a sickly child, people would stroke my hand with pity
in their eyes. I always had the feeling that I would not live long, that
I was going to an early grave. And the idea of being buried filled me
with a dread that I could never come to terms with, despite the fact
that it never left me, night or day, and as I grew up, this idea became an
obsession. Sometimes, after thinking about it for days, I would imagine
that I had succeeded in conquering my fear. All right, you’ll die and
that will be the end of you, everyone has to die some day, there could
be nothing more normal and proper. I would almost manage to be
cheerful about it: I could look death in the face without flinching! And
then, quite suddenly, an icy shiver would run down my spine and |
would become sick with fear, as if some giant hand were holding me
suspended over a precipice. My terror at the thought of being buried
would flood back and all my fine reasoning would be swept away. How
often would I wake up in the night with a sudden start, not knowing
what unseen spirit had chilled me with its icy breath, and I would clasp
my hands and stammer: “Oh God, oh God, we all have to die!” My
chest would contract with fear and the inevitability of death seemed
all the more horrible in the confusion of my sudden awakening. And I
was so unnerved that I hardly dared to go to sleep again, for sleep was
so akin to death. Suppose I were to go to sleep for ever, close my eyes
and never open them again?
I don’t know if others suffer in this way but my life has been wrecked
by such fears. Death has always stood between me and everything I
loved. I can recall my happiest moments with Marguerite, the first
few months of our marriage when she would be sleeping beside me
and I would be thinking of her and making plans for our future, and
my feeling of joy would constantly be destroyed by the presentiment
that we must inevitably be torn apart; so all my hopes were poisoned
and I would be thrown into a deep depression. What was the point of
our present happiness if we were fated to be separated? My morbid
64

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES +» CHAPTER 1
imagination gloated over the idea of bereavement: which of us would
go first? And the thought of either alternative filled my eyes with tears
as the picture of our broken lives unrolled before me. Even during the
happiest periods of my life such thoughts would overcome me and no
one could understand my sudden fits of sadness. When some good luck
came my way, people were amazed to see me looking so gloomy; it was
because the thought of my utter extinction had suddenly crossed my
mind. The terrible question: “What’s the use?” kept ringing in my ears
like a death knell. But the greatest torment of all is to have to keep all
such thoughts to yourself, as a shameful secret, a sickness that you can
never admit to anyone. Often a husband and wife lying in bed, side by
side, must feel the same cold shiver of horror run through them; yet
neither of them will say a word, because you don’t talk about death
any more than you utter.certain obscene expressions. You’re so afraid
of death that you dare not mention it; you keep it hidden in the same
way as you hide your genitals.
All these thoughts were running through my mind as Marguerite
continued desperately sobbing. I felt sorry not to be able to comfort
her by telling her that I was in no pain. If death was merely this bodily
weakness, then I had indeed been wrong to be in such dread of it. I
had a smug feeling of well-being and restfulness that cancelled all my
worries. Above all, my memory had become extremely active; my whole
life was passing rapidly before my eyes like a spectacle from which I felt
completely divorced. It was an odd and amusing experience, as though
some distant voice was telling the story of my life.
I was pursued by the memory of a tiny patch of countryside near
Guérande, on the road to Piriac. The road makes a bend and a little
pinewood sweeps down a rocky slope. I was seven at the time. I used to
go there with my father to a little, half-ruined house to eat pancakes
with Marguerite’s parents, who were even then barely managing to
scrape a living working in the local salt marshes. Then I recalled my
boarding school at Nantes and its dreary old walls where I grew up
longing for the broad horizons of Guérande with its salt marshes
stretching as far as the eye could see at the foot of the town and the
immense ocean spread out under the sky. Now there came a black
hole in my memories; my father died and I got a job as a clerk in the
hospital. My monotonous life had begun; the only bright spots were
my Sunday visits to the old house on the Piriac road. But there things
65

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
were going from bad to worse, for the salt marshes were in dire straits
and the whole region was being reduced to abject poverty. Marguerite
was still only a child. She was fond of me because I pushed her round
in a wheelbarrow. But later on, when I asked her to marry me, I realized
from her terrified look that she thought me hideously ugly. Her parents
gave their consent straight away, to get her off their hands. She was a
dutiful daughter and didn’t protest. Once she had grown used to the
idea of becoming my wife, she no longer seemed quite so unhappy.
I remember that on our wedding day, it was raining cats and dogs
in Guérande and when we went home she had to strip down to her
petticoat because her dress was wet through.
And that was all the youth I ever had. We lived in Guérande for a
while and then one day I came home and found her crying her heart
out. She was bored and wanted to move. After six months of pinching
and scraping and working overtime, I managed to save enough and
when a former friend of the family succeeded in finding a job for me,
I had taken her with me to Paris, so that the poor girl would be less
miserable. In the train she was laughing all the time. When night came,
as the third-class seats were so hard, I took her on to my knees so that
she could sleep more comfortably.
But all that belonged to the past, and now I had just died and my
wife was kneeling, sobbing, on the tiled floor beside the narrow bed of
our lodging-house room. The white spot that I could see with my left
eye was growing dimmer but I could still remember the room perfectly.
The chest of drawers was on the left, the fireplace on the right and
on the mantelshelf above there stood a clock which was not working
because it had lost its pendulum; its hands pointed to six minutes past
ten. The window looked out onto the Rue Dauphine. All the traffic of
Paris seemed to be going through that deep, gloomy street, making a
din that set the window panes rattling.
We knew not a soul in Paris. As we had left in a hurry, I was not
expected to report for work until the following Monday. Ever since
I had been forced to take to my bed, I had had the feeling of being
imprisoned in this room where we had landed up, bewildered, after our
journey, having spent some fifteen hours in the train, and stunned by
the bustle in the streets. My wife had looked after me, kind and cheerful
as always, but I could sense how worried she was. Every so often, she
would go over to the window and glance down into the street, and
66

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES » CHAPTER 1
she would come back looking very pale, scared by the size of Paris
where she knew not one brick or stone and which was creating such
a deafening roar. And what was she going to do should I never wake
up? What would become of her, all alone in this immense metropolis,
completely ignorant, and without anyone to support her?
Marguerite had caught hold of one of my hands dangling limply
beside the bed and she was kissing it as she repeated:
“Oh Olivier, do say something! Oh God, he’s dead, he’s dead!”
So death didn’t mean complete annihilation, for I could hear her and I
was capable of reasoning. It had only been this thought of annihilation
that had terrified me ever since I was a child. I could not imagine the
total destruction of my whole being, my complete extinction, and it
would be for all eternity, century upon century without ever coming to
life again! Sometimes when I saw in my newspaper a mention of a date
in the next century, a shudder would run through me, for by that time I
should certainly not be still alive and that year in a future that I should
never see, when I should no longer exist, filled me with terror. Didn’t
the world exist only for me and wouldn’t it collapse when I abandoned
it? It had always been my hope to be able to meditate on life once I was
dead, but no doubt my present state wasn’t death and I should surely
be waking up soon. Yes, in a few minutes, I should lean forwards and
take Marguerite in my arms and dry her tears. What a joyful reunion
that would be! And how much more dearly we should love each other
then! I’d rest for a couple of days and then start work. A new life would
begin for us both, a happier, richer life. But there was no need to hurry;
later on would do, for the moment I was too exhausted. Marguerite
was wrong to be so sad merely because I didn’t feel strong enough at
the moment to turn my head on the pillow and smile up at her. In a
very short while, when she next said: “He’s dead! Oh God, he’s dead!”
I’d kiss her and say to her very, very softly, so as not to scare her: “No,
my darling, I was just asleep, you can see, I’m alive and I love you.”
2
EARING MARGUERITE’S CRIES, Someone pushed open the door and a
voice exclaimed:
“What’s the matter?... Has he had another attack?”
67

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
I recognized the voice. It was Madame Gabin, an old woman who
lived next door on the same landing. When we had arrived, she had
sympathized with our predicament and had been very obliging. She
had also immediately told us all about herself. Last winter, a hard-
hearted landlord had sold up all her furniture, since when she had been
living in the hotel with her daughter Adele, a little girl of ten. They
both earned a living by cutting out lampshades, which brought them in
two francs a day at most.
“Heavens above, is he dead?” she asked, lowering her voice.
I realized that she was coming over to look at me. Then she touched
me and said in a pitying voice:
“Oh, you poor girl, you poor girl!”
By now Marguerite was exhausted and sobbing like a child. Madame
Gabin helped her to her feet and sat her down in a rickety armchair
beside the fireplace, trying to comfort her.
“Come on now, you mustn’t take on like that. Just because your
husband has passed on, there’s no point in thinking it’s the end of the
world. Of course, when I lost my hubby, I felt just like you, I couldn’t
swallow a mouthful for three whole days... But that didn’t do any
good, quite the reverse, it made me feel much worse. Come on now, be
sensible, for goodness’ sake!”
Marguerite gradually calmed down; she was rapidly becoming
exhausted, although every now and then she was shaken by sobs.
Meanwhile the gruff old woman was firmly taking charge.
“Now don’t you worry, dear,” she kept saying. “My little Dédé has
just gone off to hand in our work and neighbours must stand by each
other, mustn’t they?... Well, I can see you haven’t finished unpacking
yet, but there is some linen in the chest of drawers, isn’t there?”
I heard her opening the chest of drawers. She must have taken out a
towel that she spread over the bedside table. Next she struck a match,
which made me think that she was lighting one of the tallow candles
from the mantel shelf, since we hadn’t any wax tapers. I was able to
follow her every movement about the room and realize everything she
was doing.
“Oh, the poor gentleman!” she murmured. “What a good thing it
was that I heard you cry out, my dear.”
Then suddenly the vague gleam of light that I could still see with
my left eye disappeared. Madame Gabin had just closed my eyes. I
68

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES +: CHAPTER 2
hadn’t felt her fingers touching my eyelids. When I realized what had
happened, a slow chill started creeping over my body.
The door now opened again and her little ten-year-old daughter
Dede came in, piping in her shrill voice:
“Mummy, Mummy! Oh, I knew you were here. Here’s the money.
We got three francs twenty for our lampshades. I took them twenty
dozen!”
“Sh, sh! Don’t make a noise,” her mother said, vainly trying to keep
her quiet.
As the little girl still kept on talking, her mother must have pointed
to the bed, for she stopped abruptly and I could sense that she was
retreating uneasily towards the door.
“Is the gentleman asleep?” she asked in a low voice.
“Yes. Now go away and play,” her mother replied.
But the child stayed where she was. She must have been staring at
me with a scared look on her face, half realizing what had happened.
Suddenly she was seized with a sort of panic and ran out of the room,
knocking over a chair.
“Oh Mummy, he’s dead!”
Silence fell. Marguerite was sitting exhausted in the armchair; she
had stopped crying. Madame Gabin continued to prowl round the
room. She was muttering between her teeth:
“You can’t keep anything from children these days. Look at her. As
God’s my witness, I’m bringing her up properly! Whenever she runs an
errand or I send her to deliver our lampshades, I work out how long it’Il
take, to make sure she doesn’t go gallivanting about. But it’s no use, she
knows everything, she saw straight away what had happened, yet she’s
only ever seen one dead person, her uncle Frangois, and she wasn’t quite
four at the time... What can you do, children aren’t children any more.”
She broke off and changed the subject:
“I say, dear, we mustn’t forget, there are a lot of formalities, we’ve got
to notify the town hall and make arrangements for the funeral. You’re
in no fit state to see to all that and I don’t want to leave you on your
own. What do you say to letting me go and see if Monsieur Simoneau
is at home?”
Marguerite made no reply. I felt as if I was witnessing all this from a
great distance. Occasionally, it seemed to me that I was floating round
in the room like a flickering flame while a stranger, a shapeless mass,
69

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
was lying inert on the bed. All the same, I should have preferred her
not to agree to asking Monsieur Simoneau to help. I’d caught sight
of him three or four times during my short illness. He occupied a
neighbouring room and had been very obliging. Madame Gabin
had told us that he was merely passing through Paris, having come
to collect some outstanding debts on behalf of his father, recently
deceased after leaving Paris to go and live in the country. Simoneau
was a tall, strapping young fellow, very good-looking. I had taken
an instant dislike to him, perhaps because he was so healthy. On the
previous day, he had once again come in and I had felt unhappy to see
him sitting close to Marguerite. She looked so pretty and fresh beside
him! And he had looked at her very attentively when she smiled at him
and said how kind he was to come and ask after me!
“Here’s Monsieur Simoneau,” announced Madame Gabin in a
hushed voice as she returned.
He pushed the door gently open and as soon as she caught sight
of him, Marguerite burst into tears again. The presence of this man,
the only friend she had in Paris, had awakened her grief. He made no
attempt to comfort her. I could not see him but in the darkness which
surrounded me I could picture his face and clearly imagine him looking
perturbed and unhappy to see this poor young woman in such despair.
And yet she must have looked most appealing with her fair hair all
dishevelled, her pale face and her dear little feverish, childlike hands!
“T’'ll be very glad to do anything you require,” Monsieur Simoneau
said gently. “I’ll take care of everything if you like.”
She could only stammer a few words of thanks in reply. But Madame
Gabin went out with the young man and I heard her mention the word
“money” as she passed close by my bed. Funerals cost a lot of money
and she was afraid that the poor young woman was penniless; anyway,
they could enquire from her. Simoneau cut the old woman short: he
didn’t want Marguerite to be bothered; he would go to the town hall
and he would see to the arrangements for the funeral.
When silence again fell, I wondered to myself how much longer this
nightmare would last. I must be alive because I could understand the
slightest things that were taking place around me. I was also beginning
to realize exactly the sort of state I was in: it must be a sort of catalepsy,
of which I had heard. Even as a child, at the time of my worst nervous
troubles, I had suffered similar attacks, lasting several hours. It was
70

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES + CHAPTER 2
obviously one of these that had reduced me to this state of complete
immobility, similar to death, which was misleading everyone round
me. But my heart would start beating properly again, my blood would
start circulating and my muscles would relax. I should wake up and
comfort Marguerite. So, with these arguments running through my
mind, I urged myself to be patient.
Hours went by. Madame Gabin had fetched her lunch but Marguerite
was refusing to eat anything. Through the open window there came
the noise from the Rue Dauphine below. A little clink of the copper
candlestick against the marble top of the bedside table suggested to
me that they were replacing the old candle. At last Simoneau returned.
“Well?” the old woman asked him in a low voice.
“Everything’s arranged,” he replied. “The funeral will set off from
here at eleven o’clock tomorrow morning. You needn’t worry about
anything and don’t talk about all this in front of that poor girl.”
Madame Gabin now pointed out that the doctor still had not come
to certify death.
Simoneau went over and sat down beside Marguerite, trying at first
to comfort her, but he soon fell silent. “The funeral will set off from
here at eleven o’clock tomorrow morning.” These words were ringing
in my ears like a death knell. And there would be the doctor to certify
death, in Madame Gabin’s words! Surely he would see straight away
that I was merely unconscious? | started waiting for his arrival with
frantic impatience.
Meanwhile the day dragged on. To avoid wasting her time, Madame
Gabin had fetched her lampshades and had even asked if Dédé could
join her, saying that she didn’t like leaving children too long on their
own.
“Come on in,” she whispered to the little girl as she ushered her into
the room. “And remember, you must behave yourself and not look over
there or else there’!l be trouble.”
She was forbidding her daughter to look at me; it seemed the right
thing to do. However, Dédé must certainly have been looking furtively
in my direction now and again, because I heard her mother slapping
her arm and saying crossly:
“If you don’t get on with your work, I’ll send you out of the room
and tonight that gentleman will come along when you’re in bed and
pull your feet!”
pal

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
Both mother and daughter had sat down at our table and I could
distinctly hear the sound of their scissors cutting out the lampshades.
No doubt this was quite a difficult and complicated operation, for
they were not getting on very fast. To fight back my growing anxiety, I
started counting the lampshades one by one.
The only sound to be heard in the room was the click of scissors.
Overcome by fatigue, Marguerite must have dozed off. Twice Simoneau
got to his feet and I was tortured by the thought that he was taking
advantage of the fact that Marguerite was asleep to press his lips on
her hair and kiss it. I didn’t know him but I was sure that he loved my
wife. Then suddenly little Dedé laughed. It was the last straw.
“What are you laughing at, you silly girl?” her mother asked her. “I'll
send you out onto the landing if you’re not careful. Well, what are you
laughing at?”
The little girl stammered that she hadn’t been laughing but coughing.
But I imagined that she must have seen Simoneau bending over Mar-
guerite and that she found that funny.
The lamp had already been lit. There was a knock at the door.
“That'll be the doctor,” the old woman said.
It was indeed the doctor. He did not even bother to apologize for
being so late. No doubt he had had to climb many flights of stairs in
the course of the day. The light was very dim. He asked:
“Is this where the body is?”
“Yes, doctor,” replied Simoneau.
Marguerite stood up, trembling. Madame Gabin had sent Dédé out
on to the landing, because a child has no business seeing that sort of
thing, and she was trying to lead my wife over to the window to spare
her the painful spectacle.
Meanwhile, the doctor had quickly made his way towards the bed. I
had the feeling that he was tired, impatient and in no mood to linger.
Did he take hold of my hand? Did he place his own hand on my heart?
I can’t say one way or the other, but it seemed to me that he had, quite
unconcernedly, been content merely to bend over me.
“Shall I bring the lamp over so that you can see better?” Simoneau
offered obligingly.
“No, there’s no need,” the doctor replied calmly.
No need? This man, who was holding my life in his hands, thought there
was no need to make a thorough examination! And yet I wasn’t dead!
72

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES - CHAPTER 2
“At what time did he die?” he went on.
“At six o’clock this morning,” replied Simoneau.
A furious protest surged up inside me, despite the terrible weight
that was holding me down. Oh, the horror of not being able to say a
word or stir a single limb!
The doctor added:
“This sultry weather is dreadful. There’s nothing so exhausting as
this early spring weather.”
And he moved away from the bed and, with him, all my chances
of survival. Shouts and sobs and abuse were struggling convulsively
for utterance, stifled for lack of breath. Ah, that miserable doctor, so
blinkered in his professional routine that he had become nothing more
than a robot who took people’s deaths as a mere formality! What a
complete idiot the man must be! All his pretended medical science was
a sham, since he couldn’t distinguish between a dead man and a live
one. And now he was leaving me and going away!
“Goodnight, doctor,” Simoneau said.
There was silence. The doctor must have been bowing to Marguerite
who had come back into the room, while Madame Gabin was closing
the window. Then he left and I heard his footsteps going downstairs.
So this was the end. I was doomed: my last hope was vanishing with
those footsteps. If I didn’t wake up before eleven o’clock tomorrow, I’d be
buried alive. And this thought was so terrifying that I lost consciousness
of everything around me: it was a swoon as deep as death itself. The last
sound I heard was the click of Madame Gabin’s and Dédeé’s scissors. The
funeral vigil was beginning. Nobody spoke. Marguerite had refused to
go and sleep in her neighbour’s room and was reclining in the armchair,
pale and beautiful, with her closed lids still wet with tears, while
Simoneau sat opposite her, silently watching her in the darkness.
3
CANNOT BEGIN TO DESCRIBE all that I went through the following morn-
t ing. It was an anguish that has remained with me like some appalling
dream during which I experienced such confused and peculiar feelings
that it would be difficult for me to detail them here. And what made
my suffering even more intense was that I was still hoping against hope
Vs

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
that I would suddenly wake up. But as the time for the funeral ap-
proached, my feeling of dread grew more and more oppressive.
It was not until the following morning that I once again became aware
of the people and objects surrounding me. As I was dozing, the clatter of
a window catch aroused me. It was Madame Gabin letting in some fresh
air. It must have been about seven o’clock, for I could hear the cries of
street traders, the high-pitched voice of a little girl selling chickweed and
a hoarse voice offering carrots for sale. At first this noisy awakening of
the Paris streets helped to calm me: it seemed impossible that they would
be putting me underground amidst all this activity, and I remembered
something else which further reassured me: I recalled that I had seen
a similar case to mine when I had been employed in the hospital in
Gueérande. Like me, a man had remained asleep for twenty-eight hours,
a sleep so deep, in fact, that the doctors were hesitating whether they
should not declare him dead, and then he had sat up and been able to get
out of bed straight away. I myself had already been sleeping for twenty-
five hours. If I woke up at about ten o’clock, there would still be time.
I tried to work out who was in the room and what they were doing.
Young Dede must have been playing on the landing, because the door
was open and I could hear a child laughing outside. Simoneau had
no doubt left: I could detect no sign of his presence. Only Madame
Gabin could be heard shuffling round in her slippers. Finally someone
spoke:
“Now dear,” the old woman said, “you’re to drink up while it’s still
hot, itll do you good.”
She was addressing Marguerite and the gentle drip of a filter on the
mantelpiece told me that she was making coffee.
“I must say that I needed that,” she went on. “Staying up all night’s
bad for you at my time of life. And it’s so sad in the night, in a place
where something dreadful’s happened... Now do have some coffee,
dear, just a drop.”
And she forced Marguerite to take a cup.
“You see? It’s warm, it cheers you up. You need to get your strength
back for what you’ve got to go through today. Now if you were really
sensible, you’d go to my room and wait there.”
“No, I want to stay here,” Marguerite replied firmly.
This was the first time I had heard her voice since the previous day
and I was deeply moved. It was quite changed, broken with emotion.
74

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES + CHAPTER 3
Oh, my darling Marguerite! I could feel her close beside me, offering
me my last consolation, I knew that her eyes never left my face, and
that she was crying broken-heartedly.
But the minutes were ticking by and I heard a sound at the door
which I could not at first understand. It was as if a piece of furniture
was bumping against the wall of the narrow staircase. Then, when I
heard Marguerite starting to cry again, I realized what was happening:
they were bringing up my coffin.
“You’re too early,” said Madame Gabin, crossly. “Put it down behind
the bed.”
What was the time, then? Possibly nine o’clock. So the coffin had
already arrived. I could see it dimly through my blurred eyes, a brand-
new coffin made of roughly planed boards. Oh God! Was this the end?
Was I going to be carried out in this wooden box which they’d put
down at the head of my bed?
But one final and pleasant surprise was still in store for me: despite
her grief, Marguerite insisted on getting me ready herself for my last
journey. With the help of the old woman, she dressed me with all the
tenderness of a wife and sister and as she slipped each garment over
my body, I could feel her again holding me in her arms. Overcome by
emotion, she kept stopping, hugging me tightly and bathing my face in
tears. How I longed to return her caresses and cry out: “I’m alive!” but
I continued to lie there, an inert mass of flesh.
“T shouldn’t do that, it’s a waste,” the old woman kept saying.
“No, I want to dress him in his best,” Marguerite replied brokenly.
I realized that she was dressing me as if for our wedding. I had kept
those clothes, intending to wear them only on very special occasions.
Now she sank back exhausted into the armchair.
Suddenly I heard Simoneau’s voice. No doubt he had just come into
the room.
“They’re downstairs,” he said quietly.
“About time too,” replied Madame Gabin, lowering her voice as
well. “Tell them to come up, we mustn’t linger.”
“I’m afraid of the effect on his poor wife.”
The old woman seemed to be thinking. Then she said:
“Took, Monsieur Simoneau, you make her go into my room. She
mustn’t stay here. It’ll be a kindness to her... Meanwhile, we can get
everything done here in a jiffy.”
TS

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
Her words went straight to my heart and you can imagine the
agonies I went through during the ensuing struggle. Simoneau went up
to Marguerite and begged her not to stay in the room.
“For pity’s sake,” he said imploringly, “please come with me, there’s
no point in exposing yourself to unnecessary suffering.”
“No, I won’t,” my wife kept saying. “I’m going to stay here until the
end. Don’t forget that he’s all I’ve got in the world and when he’s gone,
I shall be-all-alone.”
While this was happening, Madame Gabin was standing beside the
bed, muttering to the young man:
“Go and pick her up and take her away in your arms.”
Was Simoneau going to do as she suggested and carry her off like
that? All of a sudden she cried out. I made a frantic effort to get to my
feet but all my strength had deserted me. So I lay there, so paralysed
that I couldn’t even open my eyelids to see what was taking place under
my very nose. The struggle continued as my wife clung to the furniture,
crying:
“Let me go, Monsieur, oh please let me go, I want to stay here!”
He must have been holding her tightly, for she started whimpering
like a child. He carried her off protesting and as her sobs died away,
I could see the two of them in my mind’s eye; strong and powerful as
he was, he was lifting her off the ground and holding her close against
his chest, while she had her arms round his neck, sobbing in a heart-
rending fashion but eventually giving up the struggle and letting him
take her away where he wanted.
“Heavens above! That wasn’t easy,” murmured Madame Gabin.
“Well, now we’ve cleared the stage, let’s get on with the job.”
In my jealous rage, Simoneau’s action in carrying her off in this way
seemed like a criminal abduction. I hadn’t been able to see Marguerite
since the day before, but I had been able to hear her and now I couldn’t
even do that. She’d been taken away from me even before I was under
the ground. And he was alone with her behind the partition, consoling
her, perhaps even kissing her.
The door opened again and there was the sound of heavy footsteps
in the room.
“Let’s be quick before she comes back,” Madame Gabin was saying.
She was addressing some unknown persons whose only reply was to
grunt.
76

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES +« CHAPTER 3
“Pm not a relative, you know, just a neighbour. There’s nothing in it
for me... I’m seeing to all this out of sheer kindness of heart. And it’s
not a cheerful job, either. I spent the night in this room and it wasn’t
all that warm at about four o’clock in the morning, I can tell you. Well,
I’ve always been stupid, I’m too kind to people.”
At this point they pulled the coffin into the room. I realized what was
happening and that I was doomed because I was not going to be able
to wake up. My mind became confused; a black fog was swirling round
inside my head. I was so overcome by exhaustion that it was almost a
relief to realize that there was no further hope for me.
“They haven’t been mean with their wood,” remarked one undertaker
in a hoarse voice. “It’s too long.”
“Ah well, he’ll be more comfortable,” replied another voice jokingly.
I wasn’t a heavy man, which pleased them, since there were three
flights of stairs to go down. Just as they were catching hold of my
shoulders and feet, Madame Gabin suddenly exclaimed, crossly:
“You naughty little girl! You’re always poking your nose in where you
shouldn’t! I’ll teach you to peep round the corner!”
It was Dédé pushing her untidy mop of hair round the door to have
a look at the man being put into his wooden box. There was the sound
of two loud slaps, followed by a burst of tears, and when her mother
came back into the room, she talked about her daughter while the men
were putting me into the coffin:
“She’s ten years old and she’s not a bad little girl but she’s far too
nosey. I don’t spank her a lot but she’s got to learn to do as she’s told.”
“Oh, all little girls are like that, you know,” said one of the men. “When
there’s a dead person in the house, they always keep hanging around.”
I was lying comfortably stretched out and but for my left arm, which
was pressing against one of the sides, I could have imagined myself
still on the bed. As they had pointed out, I fitted in very nicely, because
I was so short.
“Wait a second!” exclaimed Madame Gabin. “I promised his wife to
put a pillow under his head.”
But the undertakers were in a hurry and pushed the pillow under
very roughly. One of them was swearing as he looked for his hammer.
They had left it downstairs and had to go down to fetch it. The lid was
placed on and all of a sudden my whole body was jarred as the first
nail was driven in with two blows of the hammer. So this really was
TH

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
the end; my life was finished... And quickly the nails were driven home
with sharp, repeated blows of the hammer. They worked skilfully and
unconcernedly, like men nailing the lid on a box of fruit. Henceforth,
every sound reaching me was muffled and long drawn out, with a
strange echo, as if the deal coffin had turned into a big sounding box.
The last words I heard in the bedroom in the Rue Dauphine were spoken
by Madame Gabin:
“Go down gently and be careful of the second-floor banister, it’s
loose.”
They were carrying me away. I felt as though I was being tossed in
a stormy sea, but from this moment onwards, my memories are very
vague. However, I do recall that my only concern, a sort of instinctive
and quite absurd one, was to try to memorize the route to the cemetery.
I didn’t know a single Paris street or the exact location of the principal
cemeteries that I had occasionally heard mentioned, but this didn’t
prevent me from concentrating all my remaining thoughts on working
out whether we were turning left or right. The hearse was bumping
me about over the paving stones. All around there was the rumble
of traffic and the sound of footsteps of passers-by which created a
confused murmur, magnified by the sounding-board effect of the
coffin. At first, I was able to follow the route fairly clearly. Then we
stopped and I was moved; I realized that we had reached the church.
But as soon as the hearse set off again, I lost all sense of direction. A
peal of bells informed me that we were passing close to a church, while
a gentler, more continuous rumble made me think that we were going
along beside an esplanade. I felt like a condemned man being led to
execution, awaiting the final blow which never came.
We stopped again and I was lifted out of the hearse. And now
everything happened very quickly. The sounds had all ceased and I
could sense that I was in a deserted spot, under some trees and the
sweep of the sky. No doubt there were some mourners, people from
the hotel, Simoneau and a few others, because I could hear whispering.
There was some chanting and a priest mumbled some Latin. Then,
for a couple of minutes, there was nothing to be heard but the sound
of footsteps. Suddenly, I felt myself sinking and ropes were vibrating
against the sides of the coffin like a bow playing on a cracked double
bass. This was the end. A staggering blow, like the bursting of a shell,
exploded just to the left of my head; a second blow exploded at my
78

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES - CHAPTER 3
feet; a third, even stronger, struck over my stomach. This last one was
so loud that I thought it had split the coffin in two. And then I lost
consciousness.
4
H OW LONG I REMAINED IN THAT STATE I find it impossible to say. For a
person completely unconscious, a second is the same as eternity.
I no longer existed. Then, gradually, a confused feeling of being alive
revived. I was still in a sort of sleep but I had started dreaming. Against
the impenetrable darkness blocking my future, a nightmare was taking
shape. It was a weird figment of my imagination and one which had
often tormented me in the past when, with my horrible propensity for
inventing dire catastrophes, I would lie awake, open-eyed, savouring
the masochistic pleasure of dreaming up disasters.
Thus I would imagine that my wife was expecting me somewhere, I
think in Guérande, and that I was on my way by train. Just as the train
was going through a tunnel, there was a frightful rumbling sound, like
a clap of thunder: it was a double landslide. The train was completely
undamaged and every compartment intact, but the roof of the tunnel
had collapsed at both ends and so we found ourselves trapped in the
middle of a mountain, immured by the rock fall. We were condemned
to a horrible, lingering death, with no hope of help, for it would take a
month to unblock the tunnel, using powerful equipment and extreme
care. We were imprisoned in a sort of cellar without any exit. The
death of every passenger was merely a matter of time.
As I have said, my imagination was frequently exercised by such
horrible situations. I would think up all sorts of variants. I peopled
my drama with a full cast of men, women and children, a hundred
or so, and this crowd of people gave me scope for an endless variety
of episodes. There was a certain amount of food on the train but
this supply was quickly exhausted and without quite resorting to
cannibalism, the starving passengers fought like tigers over the few
remaining scraps of bread. An old man, at his last gasp, was brutally
punched and driven away, a mother fought like a tigress to hold onto
a few mouthfuls of food for her child. In my own compartment, two
young newly-weds had given up hope and lay motionless and dying
Us

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
in each other’s arms. The track itself was clear and passengers were
able to climb down and prowl along the train like wild beasts in
search of their prey. Class distinctions had vanished; one very rich
man, a senior government official it was whispered, was crying on
a workman’s shoulder and addressing him like a brother. The lights
had soon failed and the furnace of the locomotive had finally gone
out. As we moved from carriage to carriage, we groped our way
along the wheels to avoid bumping into each other until we reached
the engine, which we could recognize from its cold piston rod and its
bulging sides, a slumbering, impotent giant lying motionless in the
darkness. You could imagine no more frightening spectacle than this
train totally immured underground like someone buried alive, with all
its passengers dying one by one.
I used to revel in every tiny horrible detail. The darkness was pierced
by screams and suddenly a man, whom I hadn’t seen and hadn’t
realized was sitting beside me, slumped down against my shoulder.
But it was the cold and lack of air which was really affecting me now.
Never had I felt so cold; a mantle of snow seemed to be settling on my
shoulders, my head was reeling in the clammy air and at the same time
I felt that I was being stifled as the roof of rock seemed to be collapsing
and pressing down on to my chest. The whole mass of the mountain
was crushing me. But a cry of relief rang out. For some time we had
been imagining that we could hear dull thuds in the distance and hopes
were beginning to rise that they had started to dig us out. But now
relief was at hand from another quarter — one of our number had just
discovered an air shaft in the tunnel and we all ran over to look at it.
A blue patch could be seen at the top, no larger than a blob of sealing
wax, but this tiny patch of blue filled us with joy. We stood craning our
necks endeavouring to snatch a breath of fresh air. We could clearly
distinguish some black dots frantically working; they must surely be
workmen setting up a winch to haul us to safety. A cry burst from our
throats. We were saved! We were saved! Everyone was shouting and
waving their arms towards this tiny blue patch.
It was the sound of these shouts which woke me up. Where was I?
Was I still in the tunnel? I was lying stretched out and I could feel my
body enclosed between walls on both sides. I tried to sit up but my
head struck violently against some hard object. I must be surrounded
by rock on all sides. And the blue patch had disappeared; the sky was
80

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES - CHAPTER 4
no longer visible, even in the distance. I was still suffocating and my
teeth were chattering as a shiver ran through my whole body.
Suddenly everything came back to me. My hair bristled with horror
and an icy tremor shook me from head to foot as the dreadful truth
flooded into my brain. Had I finally been freed from the paralysis
that had held me stiff and corpselike in its grip for so long? Yes,
I could move and I ran my trembling hands along the sides of the
coffin. There remained one final test: I opened my mouth and tried
to speak, instinctively calling Marguerite’s name. But my call turned
into a scream and my voice echoed round the coffin in a terrifying,
ear-splitting shriek. Oh dear God! Could it be true? I could move and
I could call out that I was alive, but there was no one to hear me, J was
entombed under the ground...
I made one final effort to control myself and gather my wits about
me. Wasn’t there some way of escape? I started to relive my dream; my
brain was still reeling and in my imagination the air shaft and the patch
of blue sky were mingling with the reality of the hole in which I was
suffocating. With wild, staring eyes I probed the darkness. Perhaps I
might be able to see a slit, a hole, a sliver of light? But in the gloom all
around me, I could see only a stream of twinkling lights and specks of
red which spread out and vanished, leaving a black, bottomless abyss.
Then my brain cleared and I thrust the stupid nightmare from my
mind. If I was to save myself, I should need all my wits.
First of all, my greatest danger seemed to be the ever-increasing
stuffiness which was threatening to suffocate me. No doubt I had
been able to do without air for so long because my physical functions
had been paralysed, but now that my heart had started beating and
my lungs were breathing again, if I didn’t free myself as quickly as
possible, I should be asphyxiated. I was also suffering from the cold
and I was afraid of becoming numb and dying, like people who topple
over into a snowdrift and never climb out.
While I kept on reminding myself that I must remain quite calm,
I could feel waves of panic sweeping over me. So in an effort to pull
myself together, I tried to recall everything I knew about methods
of burial. I must have been buried in a five-year concession and that
effectively put paid to one of my hopes — for I had noticed that as each
hole was filled up in the paupers’ graves, the end of the most recent
coffin was left exposed. Had that been the case, I should only have
81

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
needed to break through one plank to escape, whereas if I was in a
hole that had been filled up to the top, there was a tremendous weight
of earth above me and this would prove a formidable obstacle. Hadn’t
I read somewhere that in Paris graves were dug out to a depth of six
feet? How could I get through such an enormous thickness of earth?
Even should I be able to split the lid of my coffin open, wouldn’t the
earth come pouring in like fine sand and fill my nose and mouth so that
I would die a second, horrible death, drowned in slime?
However, I carefully explored the space all around me. The coffin
was a large one and I had no difficulty in moving my arms. As far as
I could discover, there were no gaps in the lid and though the left and
right sides of the coffin were only roughly planed, they were tough and
solid. I bent my arm back across my chest and felt beyond my head.
There, in the end plank, I discovered a knot that gave a little when I
pressed against it. So I laboriously rocked it until at last it fell out.
Then, inserting my finger, I felt the earth beyond; it was a thick, wet
clay. But that got me no further. I even regretted having removed the
knot, as the slime might be able to seep though the hole. I decided to
try another experiment and tapped all round the coffin to see if there
might perhaps be a hollow space on one side or the other. But the sound
was the same wherever I tapped. However, when I gently knocked the
end of the coffin, the sound seemed to me to be higher pitched, but this
could have been caused by the shape or method of construction.
Then, with my arms held above my chest, I began gently pushing
with my fists. The lid did not move an inch. Next I tried bracing myself
on my back and feet and pushing with my knees. There was not even a
creak. Finally, exerting my full strength and using every muscle in my
body, I pushed until my bones cracked and then lashed out until I was
bruised all over. It was then that I lost my head.
Untl now I’d been determined to remain clear-headed and control
the bursts of impotent rage which threatened to sweep over me like
the fumes in a drunkard’s head. Above all, I had been resisting the
temptation to shout because I realized that if I started shouting, I
should be lost. And now, all at once, I began shouting and screaming.
I had reached the limits of my endurance; scream upon scream burst
from my lips until I could scream no more. I was calling for help in a
voice that I could not recognize as my own, becoming more hysterical
with every shout I uttered. I was screaming that I didn’t want to die,
82

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES +: CHAPTER 4
while at the same time I was scratching at the boards with my nails and
writhing convulsively like a trapped wolf.
I don’t know how long this outburst of hysteria lasted but I can stil!
feel those hard, unyielding wooden planks which I was vainly trying to
force my way through and still hear my screams and sobs reverberating
inside them. A last flicker of reason was urging me to control myself
but I was powerless to do so.
In the end I lapsed into a state of nervous exhaustion. Barely con-
scious, I lay painfully waiting to die. The coffin was as solid as a rock: I
should never manage to break it open, and the certainty of this left me
completely sapped of energy and of the courage to make any further
attempt. And now another ordeal was added to the cold and lack of
air: the pangs of hunger which soon became unbearable. Through
the knothole, I tried to gather a few pinches of earth which I then
swallowed: they merely increased my sufferings. I took hold of my arm
in my clenched teeth and sucked at my skin, tempted to bite into my
flesh and drink my blood, but I could not quite bring myself to do it.
By now, I was longing to die. Till then I had always had a horror at
the thought of annihilation and now I had reached the stage of hoping
for it, even praying for it. To be completely wiped out! And it would
be impossible for it to be too complete. How childish I’d been to be
afraid of that sleep without dreams, that black stillness that would
last for ever! Death would be a happy release, because it would, in one
fell swoop, obliterate all consciousness for all eternity. To be able to
become like a stone, a handful of dust, simply to cease to be!
Yet my groping hands were still continuing automatically to feel
around the inside of my coffin. Suddenly, something pricked my left
thumb and the slight pain roused me from my torpor. What could it
be? I felt again and realized that it was a nail which the undertakers
had hammered in askew without noticing, and which had missed the
2dge of the coffin. It was a very long nail with a very sharp point. The
|
head of the nail was in the lid but I could feel that it was loose. Now
|
1 had only one thought in my mind: I must get that nail. Holding
my right hand above my waist, I began to rock the nail to and fro.
{t was no easy task, for the nail was not very loose. Ih ad to change
hands frequently, because my other hand was awkwardly placed and
| quickly became tired. While I was working desperately at the nail, a
| plan was taking shape in my head whereby it could prove to be my
83

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
salvation. I must get it out, at all costs. But could I do it in the short
time left to me? I was weak from hunger and forced to stop, because
my head was reeling and my hands had lost their strength. My mind
was in a whirl. I had already sucked up the drops of blood oozing
from my pricked thumb, now I bit hard into my arm and drank
my blood... Spurred on by the pain and invigorated by the taste of
this warm, salty wine moistening my lips, I set to work again with
both hands. At last I managed to free the nail and pull it inside the
coffin.
It was at this moment that I realized that I was going to succeed.
My plan was simple. I jabbed the point of the nail into the lid of the
coffin and dragged it in a straight line as far as I could, and I kept on
moving the nail backwards and forwards to score as deep a groove as
possible. My hands became stiff and sore but with the force of despair
I kept doggedly on. When I judged that the groove was deep enough,
I turned over on to my front and bracing myself on elbows and knees,
I pushed up with my back. I heard the lid creak but it refused to split.
The groove was obviously not deep enough, so I turned on to my back
and started scraping away with the nail once more. It was laborious
work. After a while I turned over again and made another attempt, and
this time the lid split from top to bottom...
Well, I was not yet safe but hope was beginning to stir. I stopped
pushing and lay completely still for fear that the soil might slide down
and bury me. | planned to use the lid as a sort of shield whilst I tried
to hollow out a shaft in the earth. Unfortunately this proved difficult
in the extreme, for the heavy lumps of clay kept slipping down and
pressing on the lid, making it impossible for me to move it. I would
never reach the surface, for these lumps were already weighing down so
strongly on my back that my face was being thrust against the bottom
of the coffin. Just as I was beginning to panic, I thought, as I stretched
out, preparatory to bracing myself, that I could feel the end of the
coffin giving way under my pressure. I kicked hard against it with my
heels, thinking there might be a hollow space there, where they were in
the process of digging a grave.
Suddenly I felt that my feet were free. My intuition had proved
correct: an open grave had recently been dug out there and all that I
now had to do was to break through a narrow bank of earth. I slid out
into the open. Thank God! I was saved!
84

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES + CHAPTER 4
Fora moment] lay on my back looking up at the sky. It was night time
and the stars were shining in the dark, velvety, blue sky. The wind was
rising, bringing warm gusts of spring air and a scent of trees. Thank
God! I was saved, I could breathe, I was warm and I was weeping tears
of joy. I clasped my hands together and in a broken voice offered a
prayer of thanks to Heaven. How wonderful it was to be alive!
S)
M Y FIRST THOUGHT was to make my way to the caretaker of the
cemetery and get him to arrange for me to be taken home. But
on second thoughts, still confused in my mind, I hesitated. Wouldn’t
every body be frightened-when they saw me? And why be in such a hur-
ry, now that everything was going to be all right? Apart from the small
wound in my left arm where I| had bitten myself, there was nothing
wrong with me and indeed the slight fever brought on by this wound
was stimulating me and giving me an unexpected feeling of energy. I
would certainly be able to walk without help.
So I decided to take my time, for my mind was still in something of
a muddle. In the grave next to mine, I had noticed the gravediggers’
spades and the thought came to me that I ought to make good the
damage I had done and fill up the hole in such a way that nobody would
notice my resurrection. At the time I had no clear idea in mind, I merely
felt that it was pointless to publicize what had happened; in fact, I felt
rather ashamed of being still alive when everyone thought I was dead.
It took me less than half an hour to cover up all traces of my escape.
I jumped out of the grave. What a wonderful night it was! The cemetery
was plunged in silence and the dark trees were casting still shadows on
the white gravestones. As I was trying to find my sense of direction,” I
saw that one half of the sky was glowing as if on fire. That must be Paris
and I set off in that direction, keeping in the shadow of the overhanging
branches of an avenue of trees. But I had barely gone fifty yards before I
was forced to stop and sit down, out of breath, on a stone bench. Only
then did I examine myself closely: I was completely dressed, even down
to my shoes; the only thing missing was a hat. How I blessed Marguerite’s
sense of piety in having me properly clothed! And the sudden memory of
Marguerite brought me to my feet: I wanted to see her.
85

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
At the end of the avenue, my way was blocked by a wall. I clambered
up on to a gravestone and, hanging from the coping, I let myself drop
on the far side. I fell heavily. Picking myself up, I followed for a few
minutes a wide, deserted street that ran beside the cemetery. I had not the
slightest idea where I was but I kept saying to myself determinedly that
I would find my way back into Paris and then certainly be able to get to
the Rue Dauphine. Some people went by but, seized by a sudden feeling
of distrust, I didn’t speak to them; I didn’t feel that I wanted to confide
in anyone at the moment. I realize now that I was already suffering from
a high fever and becoming delirious. In the end, just as 1 was coming out
into a main street, I was overcome by dizziness and fell heavily on the
pavement.
Here there is a gap in my life. I remained unconscious for three weeks.
When I finally came to, I was lying in a strange bedroom. I was being
looked after by a man who merely told me that he had picked me up one
morning in the Boulevard Montparnasse and taken me back to his house.
He was a retired doctor. When I thanked him, he replied briefly that my
case had intrigued him and he had wanted to observe me. Moreover,
during the first few weeks of my convalescence, he would not allow me
to ask any questions. Nor, later on, did he ask me any. I stayed in bed
for another week; my mind was still unclear and I did not even try to go
back over all that had happened, for I found it both tiring and saddening.
I felt afraid and in no mood to talk. I’d go and see how things were once
I was fit enough to leave the house. Perhaps, during my delirium, I might
have blurted out a name but the doctor never referred to anything that I
might have said. He was as discreet as he was kind.
Meanwhile, summer had come and one morning in June I received
permission, at last, to go for a short walk. It was a superb day, with a
cheerful sun making the old streets of Paris look young again. I went
slowly along, asking the way to the Rue Dauphine from passers-by at
every street crossing. At last, I reached my goal but I had difficulty in
recognizing the furnished hotel in which we had stayed. I was like a
scared child. If 1 showed myself to Marguerite too unexpectedly, I was
afraid she would be overcome by shock. Perhaps the best thing would
be to warn old Madame Gabin first of all? But I didn’t like the idea of
anyone coming between Marguerite and me... I couldn’t make up my
mind; deep down inside me, I felt a great emptiness as if, long ago, I
had sacrificed myself.
86

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES * CHAPTER 5
The house looked golden in the sunshine. I had recognized it by its
cheap restaurant on the ground floor from which you could have meals
sent up to your room. | looked up to the third floor, at the end window
on the left. It was wide open. Suddenly a young woman, with her hair
undone and her shift slipping off her shoulder, came to the window and
rested her elbows on the sill to look out; she was immediately followed
by a young man who bent over and kissed the back of her neck. It was
not Marguerite. I felt no surprise; it seemed to me as if it were all part of
a dream, like so many other things that I was about to experience.
For a second, I stood hesitating in the street, thinking I might go up
and question this happy young couple of lovers who were still laughing
and enjoying the sun. Eventually, I decided to go into the little ground-
floor restaurant. I felt sure that, with my hollow cheeks and the beard
which had grown during my illness, no one would recognize me. Just as
I was taking my seat at attable, who should appear but Madame Gabin
herself, holding a small cup to fetch herself some coffee. She planted
herself in front of the counter and started exchanging the morning’s
gossip with the owner’s wife. I pricked up my ears.
“Well, has that poor little woman on the third floor made up her
mind at last?” the woman enquired.
“What could she do?” replied Madame Gabin. “It was the best thing
for her. Monsieur Simoneau has been such a good friend... He’d just
completed his business, he was coming into a lot of money and he was
offering to take her back with him to his home town, where she’d be
able to live with one of his aunts who needs a companion.”
The woman behind the bar gave a little laugh. I was hiding my
face behind a newspaper; I had gone very pale and my hands were
trembling.
“I imagine that it’ll end in their getting married,” Madame Gabin
went on. “But I can assure you I haven’t seen any hanky-panky... The
poor dear was heartbroken over her husband and he behaved like a
proper gentleman. Anyway, they left yesterday. Once she’s out of
mourning, they’ll please themselves what they do, won’t they?”
At that moment, the door leading from the hall into the restaurant
swung open and Dede came in.
“Aren’t you going to come, Mummy? I’ve been waiting for you. Do
hurry up!”
“I’m coming in a minute. Don’t bother me 1”? her mother replied.
87

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
The girl stayed listening to the two women, like the precocious little
Paris brat she was.
“And after all, the husband wasn’t a patch on Monsieur Simoneau,”
said Madame Gabin, following her train of thought. “I didn’t think
much of that little whippersnapper. Always complaining... Andas poor
as a church mouse. No, really, a husband like that can’t be much fun for
a woman with some blood in her veins... And Monsieur Simoneau 1s
rich and as strong as an ox.”
“Oh yes,” Dédé broke in, “I saw him having a wash one day. You
should have seen his hairy arms!”
“Now just you run along!” the old woman shouted, giving her a
push. “You’re always sticking your nose in where it’s not wanted.”
Then she concluded:
“So I reckon that the husband did the right thing in dying. It’s a
wonderful stroke of luck.”
When I found myself in the street once again, my legs could barely
support me. I walked slowly away, and yet I wasn’t too unhappy. I
even smiled when I looked at my shadow cast by the sun: I really was
weedy. It had been a queer notion of mine to marry Marguerite... And
I remembered how much she’d disliked Guérande, how impatient she’d
become and tired of her boring life. She had shown herself a good wife,
but I had never been a proper lover for her. It was a brother she was
mourning, not a husband. Why should I disturb her life again? A dead
man can’t be jealous... When I raised my eyes, I saw that I was standing
in front of the Luxembourg gardens. I went in and sat down in the
sun. I slipped into a gentle daydream. I felt full of tenderness towards
Marguerite now. I could see her living in the provinces like a lady, in her
little country town, very happy and loved by everyone. People would
make a fuss of her. She would grow into a beauty and have three sons
and two daughters... No, I’d done the right thing in dying and I’d
certainly not be stupid or cruel enough to come back to life.
Since that time, I’ve travelled a great deal and lived in many different
places. I’m a very ordinary man who’s worked and fed like everyone
else. ’m no longer afraid of dying, but Death doesn’t seem to want
anything to do with me, now that I can see no point in living. I’m afraid
he’s forgotten me.
88

Shellfish for Monsieur Chabre™
1
ONSIEUR CHABRE HAD ONE GREAT SORROW: he was childless. He had
married a Mademoiselle Estelle Catinot (of the firm of Desvi-
gnes and Catinot). She was tall, beautiful and blonde, only eighteen
years of age, but for the last four years he had been anxiously waiting,
with growing dismay and wounded pride at the failure of his efforts.
Monsieur Chabre was a retired corn merchant and a very wealthy
man. Despite having lived continently, as befitted a solid middle-class
businessman bent on becoming a millionaire, he walked with the
heavy tread of an old man, although he was only forty-five. His face,
prematurely lined with financial cares, was as dull as ditchwater. And
he was in despair, for a man who enjoys an investment income of fifty
thousand francs a year has the right to feel surprised when he discovers
that it is more difficult to become a father than to become rich.
Madame Chabre was twenty-two years old and beautiful. With
her peach-like complexion and golden blonde hair curling in ringlets
over her neck, she was quite adorable. Her blue-green eyes were like
slumbering pools hiding depths difficult to plumb. When her husband |
complained of their childlessness, she would arch her supple body,
emphasizing the curves of her hips and bosom, and her wry half-smile
plainly said: “Is it any fault of mine?” It must be added that in her circle
of friends and acquaintances, Madame Chabre was acknowledged as
a young woman of perfect breeding, adequately pious and incapable
of giving rise to the slightest breath of scandal, brought up, indeed,
in the soundest of middle-class principles by a strict mother. Only
the nostrils of her little white nose would give an occasional nervous
twitch which might have given so.ne cause for concern to anyone but a
retired corn merchant.
Meanwhile the family doctor, Dr Guiraud, a large, shrewd, smiling
man, had already been called in for a number of private consultations
with Monsieur Chabre. He had explained to him how backward
89

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
science was: you can’t plant a child as you’d plant an oak, dear me no!
However, not wishing to leave anyone entirely without hope, he had
promised to give thought to the case. So, one July morning he called on
Monsieur Chabre and said:
“You ought to go on a holiday to the sea and do some bathing. It’s an
excellent thing. And above all, eat shellfish, lots of shellfish. Nothing
but shellfish.”
Monsieur Chabre’s hopes rose.
“Shellfish, doctor?” he asked eagerly. “Do you think that shell-
fishies
“Yes, I do indeed! There’s strong evidence of the success of that
treatment. So you must understand, every day you eat oysters, mussels,
clams, sea urchins, not forgetting crayfish and lobsters!”
Then, just as he was standing in the doorway ready to leave, he added
casually:
“Don’t bury yourself in some out-of-the-way place. Madame
Chabre is young and needs entertainment... Go to Trouville, it’s full
of ozone.”
Three days later, the couple were on their way. However, the ex-corn
merchant had thought it pointless to go to Trouville, where he’d have
to spend money hand over fist. You can eat shellfish anywhere, indeed,
in an out-of-the-way resort the shellfish would be more plentiful and
far cheaper. As for entertainment, there’s always too much of that.
After all, they weren’t travelling for pleasure.
A friend had recommended the tiny resort of Pouliguen, close to
Saint Nazaire, a new town with its modern, dead-straight streets still
full of building sites. They visited the harbour and loitered round the
streets where the shops hesitated between being tiny, gloomy village
stores and large luxury grocers. At Pouliguen there was not one single
house left unlet. The little timber and plaster houses, looking like
garish fairground shacks, which stretched round the bay, had all been
invaded by the English and rich Nantes tradesmen. Estelle pulled a wry
face when she saw the queer structures in which middle-class architects
had given free rein to their imagination.
The travellers were advised to spend the night in Guérande. It was a
Sunday. When they arrived just before noon, even Monsieur Chabre,
although not naturally a poetic person, was at first struck with ad-
miration by this little jewel of a medieval town, so well preserved with
90

SHELLFISH FOR MONSIEUR CHABRE + CHAPTER 1
its ramparts and deep gateways with battlements. Estelle looked at the
drowsy little town, surrounded by its esplanades shaded by tall trees,
and its charm brought a gleam into the dreamy pools of her eyes.
Their carriage drove in through one of the gateways and clattered at a
trot over the cobblestones of the narrow streets. The Chabres had not
exchanged a word.
“What a dump!” the ex-corn merchant muttered finally. “The villages
round Paris are far better built.”
Their carriage halted in front of the Hétel du Commerce, in the
centre of the town, next to the church, and as they were getting out,
mass was just ending. While her husband was seeing to their luggage,
Estelle was intrigued to see the congregation coming out of church,
many of whom were dressed in quaint costumes. Some of the men
were wearing white smocks and baggy breeches; these were those
who lived and worked in the vast, desolate salt marshes which stretch
between Guérande and Le Croisic. Then there were the sharecroppers,
a completely different species, who wore short woollen jackets and
round broad-brimmed hats. But Estelle was particularly excited by the
ornate costume worn by one girl. Her headdress fitted tightly round
the temples and rose up to a point. Over her red bodice with wide-
cuffed sleeves, she had a silk front brocaded with brightly coloured
flowers. Her triple, tight-pleated, blue woollen skirt was held by a belt
embroidered in gold and silver, while a long orange-coloured apron
hung down, revealing her red woollen stockings and dainty yellow
slippers.
“How can they allow that sort of thing!” exclaimed Monsieur
Chabre. “You only see that kind of circus get-up in Brittany.”
Estelle made no reply. A tall young man, about twenty years of
age, was coming out of church, giving his arm to an old lady... He
had a very pale complexion and honey-coloured hair; he looked very
self-possessed and was something of a giant, with broad shoulders
and muscular arms, despite his youth. Yet he had a delicate, gentle
expression which, combined with his pink complexion and smooth
skin, gave him a girlish appearance. As Estelle was staring at him,
struck by his good looks, he turned his head and his eyes rested on her
for a second. Then he blushed to the roots of his hair.
“Well there’s someone at least who looks human. He’ll make a fine
cavalry officer,” said Monsieur Chabre.
91

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
“That’s Monsieur Hector Plougastel with his mother,” said the hotel
maid, hearing this remark. “He’s such a kind, well-behaved boy.”
While the Chabres were taking lunch, a lively argument arose at
their table d’héte. The registrar of mortgages, who took his meals
at the Hétel du Commerce, was speaking approvingly of Guerande’s
patriarchal way of life and particularly of the high moral standards
of the young people. He claimed that it was their religious upbringing
which was responsible for their good behaviour. However, a commercial
traveller, who had arrived that morning with a stock of false jewellery,
recounted with a grin how he’d seen young men and girls kissing behind
the hedgerows as he was driving along the road. He would have liked
to see what the lads of the town would have done if given the chance
to meet a few attractive friendly ladies. And he went on to poke fun
at religion, priests and nuns until the outraged registrar of mortgages
flung down his napkin and stamped out of the room. The Chabres had
gone on eating without saying a word, with the husband furious at the
sort of conversation you have to listen to at a table d’hdéte, while his
wife sat with a placid smile on her face as if she didn’t understand a
word of what they were talking about.
The Chabres spent the afternoon visiting Guérande. The church of
St Aubin was deliciously cool and as they walked slowly around inside,
they looked up at the arched vaulting supported on slender columns
which shot upwards like stone rockets, stopping to admire the strange
carved capitals depicting torturers sawing their victims in two and
roasting them on grills, using large bellows to fan the flames. Then they
strolled round the five or six main streets of Guérande and Monsieur
Chabre was confirmed in his view: it was nothing but a dump, with no
trade to speak of, just one more of those antiquated medieval towns
so many of which had already been knocked down. The streets were
deserted, with their rows of gabled houses piled up side by side like so
many tired old women. The pointed roofs, the slate-covered pepper
pots and corner turrets and the weather-worn sculptures made some of
the quiet backstreets of the town seem like museums drowsing in the
sun. At the sight of all the lead-lit windows, a dreamy look came into
Estelle’s eyes; since her marriage she had taken to reading novels and
she was thinking of Walter Scott.
But when the Chabres went outside the town and walked all round it,
they found themselves nodding their heads appreciatively. They had to
92

SHELLFISH FOR MONSIEUR CHABRE + CHAPTER 1
admit that it really was charming. The granite walls which completely
encircled the town had weathered to a rich honey colour and were as
intact as when they had been built, though ivy and honeysuckle now
draped the battlements. Shrubs had grown on the towers flanking the
ramparts and their brightly coloured flowers, golden gorse and flaming
gillyflower, glowed under the clear blue sky. Grassy walks under shady
age-old oaks extended all around the town. They picked their way
carefully, as though stepping on a carpet, as they walked along beside the
former moat, partly filled in and further on turning into weed-covered
stagnant pools in whose mysteriously glinting surface were mirrored the
white trunks of birch trees growing close up to the walls amongst the
wispy green undergrowth. Rays of light shone through the trees lighting
up hidden nooks and crannies, the deep-set posterns where the peace of
centuries was disturbed only by the sudden leaps of frightened frogs.
“There are ten towers, I’ve just been counting them,” exclaimed
Monsieur Chabre when they had come round to their starting point.
He had been particularly struck by the four gateways with their long
narrow entrances through which only one carriage could pass at a time.
Wasn’t it quite absurd to keep yourself shut in like that in the nineteenth
century? If he’d been in charge he’d have knocked down the fortress-like
gateways, with their useless loopholes and such thick walls that you
could have built a couple of six-storey dwellings on their sites.
“Not to mention all the building materials you’d get from demolishing
the ramparts,” he added.
They were standing in the Mall, a spacious raised esplanade which
curved in a quarter-circle from the eastern to the southern gateways.
Estelle was gazing pensively over the striking panorama which spread
out for miles beyond the roofs of the suburbs. First of all there came a
dense, dark green belt of gnarled shrubs and pine trees leaning sideways
from the force of the winds coming in from the ocean. Then followed
the immense plain of desolate salt marshes, flat and bare, with their
square patches of seawater gleaming like mirrors beside the little heaps
of salt which shone white against the grey expanse of sand. Further
on, at the skyline, she could make out the deep blue of the Atlantic on
which three tiny sails looked like white swallows.
“There’s the young man we saw this morning,” said Monsieur
Chabre suddenly. “Doesn’t he remind you of Laviére’s son? If he had a
humpback, he’d look exactly like him.”
93

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
Estelle turned slowly round but Hector, standing at the edge of the
Mall and equally absorbed in watching the sea on the distant horizon,
did not seem to notice that he was being observed. The young woman
started walking slowly on again. She was using her long sunshade as
a walking stick but she had barely taken a dozen steps before its bow
came loose. The Chabres heard a voice behind them.
“Excuse me, madam...”
Hector had retrieved the bow.
“Thank you very much indeed,” said Estelle with her quiet smile.
He really was a nice, well-mannered young man. Monsieur Chabre
took to him at once and explained to him the problem facing them of
finding a suitable resort, and even asked for Hector’s advice.
Hector was very shy.
“T don’t think you’ll find the sort of place you’r e looking for either at
Le Croisic or Le Batz,” he said, pointing to the church spires of these
two little towns on the horizon. “I think your best plan would be to go
to. Piriac,”’
He gave them some details: Piriac was about seven miles away, he had
an uncle living on the outskirts. Finally, in reply to questions by Monsieur
Chabre, he said that there were plenty of shellfish to be found there.
The young woman was poking the point of her sunshade into the
short turf. The young man kept his eyes averted as though embarrassed
to look her in the face.
“Guerande is an extremely pretty place,” she said finally in her soft
voice.
“Oh yes, extremely,” stammered Hector, suddenly devouring her
with his eyes.
ye
NE MORNING, three days after settling in at Piriac, Monsieur Cha-
bre was standing on the platform at the end of the sea wall pro-
tecting the tiny harbour, stolidly keeping watch over Estelle who was
bathing. At the moment she was floating on her back. The sun was
already very hot and, decorously dressed in black frock coat and felt
hat, he was warding off its rays by means of a sunshade with a green
lining. He looked every inch the holiday visitor.
94

SHELLFISH FOR MONSIEUR CHABRE + CHAPTER 2
“Is the water warm?” he enquired, feigning interest in his wife’s
bathing.
“Lovely!” she replied, turning on to her front.
Monsieur Chabre was terrified of the water and never ventured into
it. He would explain that his doctors had explicitly forbidden him to
bathe in the sea. When a wave so much as came towards his shoes on
the beach, he would start back in alarm as if he were being faced by
some vicious animal baring its teeth. In any case, seawater would have
disturbed his decorum; he looked on it as dirty and disgusting.
“So it really is warm?” he enquired again, his head swimming from
the heat. He felt both drowsy and uncomfortable standing at the end
of the sea wall.
Estelle did not bother to reply: she was busy swimming a dog-paddle.
In the water, she was as fearless as a boy and would swim for hours, to the
dismay of her husband who felt it incumbent on him to wait at the water’s
edge. At Piriac Estelle had found the sort of bathing she liked; she despised
gently shelving beaches where you have to walk a long way out before the
water comes up to your waist. She would go to the end of the sea wall
wrapped in her flannel bathrobe, slip it off and take a header without
a second thought. She used to say that she needed fifteen feet of water
to avoid striking her head on the rocky bottom. Her skirtless one-piece
bathing costume clung to her tall figure and the long blue belt tied round
her waist emphasized the graceful curve of her firm, full hips. Moving
through the clear water, with her hair caught up in a rubber bathing cap
from which a few strands of blonde curls were escaping, she looked like
some sleek agile dolphin with a disconcertingly pink woman’s face.
Monsieur Chabre had been standing in the sweltering hot sun for
a good quarter of an hour. He had already consulted his watch three
times. Finally he risked a timid comment:
“You’ve been in a long time, my dear. Oughtn’t you to come out?
You'll get tired, bathing so long.”
“But I’ve only just gone in,” the young woman replied. “I’m as warm
as toast.” °
Then, turning on her back again, she added:
“If you’re bored, you needn’t stay. I don’t need you.”
He objected with a shake of his head, pointing out how quickly a
danger could arise; Estelle smiled at the thought; her husband would
be a fat lot of good if she were suddenly attacked by cramp. But at
2)

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
this moment her attention was drawn to the other side of the sea wall,
towards the bay that lay to the left of the village.
“Good gracious!” she exclaimed. “What’s happening over there? ’m
going to have a look.”
And she swam off with a long, powerful breaststroke.
“Estelle, come back!” shouted Monsieur Chabre. “You know I can’t
bear it when you take risks!”
But Estelle was not listening and he had to possess himself in patience.
Standing on tiptoe to watch the white speck of his wife’s straw hat, he
merely transferred his sunshade to the other hand; he was finding the
stifling heat more and more unbearable.
“What on earth has she seen?” he muttered to himself. “Oh, it’s
that thing floating over there... A bit of rubbish, I expect. A bunch of
seaweed, perhaps? Ora barrel. No, it can’t be, it’s moving.”
Then he suddenly recognized what it was:
“It’s a man swimming!”
However, after a few strokes, Estelle had also recognized perfectly
well that it was a man. She therefore stopped swimming straight towards
him, since that seemed hardly the proper thing. But she mischievously
decided not to swim back to the sea wall and continued to make for
the open sea, pleased to be able to show how bold she was. She pursued
her course, pretending not to notice the other swimmer, who was now
gradually coming up towards her, as if being carried by the current.
Thus, when she turned round to swim back to the sea wall, their paths
crossed, apparently quite fortuitously.
“IT hope you are well, madam?” the young man enquired politely.
“Oh, it’s you!” Estelle exclaimed brightly.
And she added with a smile:
“What a small world it is, isn’t it?”
It was young Hector de Plougastel. He was still very shy, very well
built and looked very pink in the water. For a moment they swam
without speaking, maintaining a decent distance between each other.
In order to converse, they had to raise their voices. However, Estelle felt
that she ought to be polite.
“We're very grateful to you for having told us about Piriac... My
husband is delighted with it.”
“Isn’t that your husband standing by himself on the sea wall?” asked
Hector.
96

SHELLFISH FOR MONSIEUR CHABRE + CHAPTER 2
“Yes,” she replied.
Silence fell again. They were watching her husband who looked like
a tiny black insect above the sea. Very intrigued, Monsieur Chabre was
craning his neck even more and wondering who the man was whose
acquaintance his wife had just made in the middle of the sea. There
was no doubt about it, his wife was definitely chatting with him. It
must be one of their Paris friends. But running his mind over the list of
their friends, he could not think of one bold enough to swim so far out.
And so he waited, aimlessly twirling his sunshade round in his hand.
“Yes,” Hector was explaining to the attractive Madame Chabre,
“Pve come over to spend a few days in my uncle’s chateau which you
can see over there, halfway up the hill. So for my daily swim, I set off
from that piece of land jutting out opposite the terrace and swim to the
sea wall and back. Just over a mile in all. It’s wonderful exercise... But
you’re a very daring swimmer, I don’t think I’ve ever met such a daring
lady swimmer.”
“Oh I’ve been splashing about in the water ever since I was a little
girl,” said Estelle. “Water doesn’t have any secrets for me, we’re old
friends.”
To avoid having to talk so loudly, they were gradually drawing
closer to each other. On this beautiful warm morning, the sea was
like one vast piece of watered silk, drowsing in the sun. Parts were
as smooth as satin, separated by narrow bands of shimmering water,
stretching out into the distance, currents looking like creases in a
cloth. Once they were closer to each other, their conversation took a
more intimate turn.
“What a superb day!” And Hector began to point out several land-
marks along the coast. That village over there, less than a mile away,
was Port aux Loups; opposite was the Morbihan, with its white cliffs
standing out sharply as in some watercolour; and finally, in the other
direction, towards the open sea, the island of Dumet could be seen
as a grey speck set in the blue sea. Each time Hector pointed, Estelle
stopped swimming for a second, charmed to see these distant sights
from sea level against the infinite backdrop of the limpid sky. When
she looked towards the sun, her eyes were dazzled and the sea seemed
as though transformed into a boundless Sahara, with the blinding
sunlight bleaching the immense stretch of sandy beach.
“TIsn’t it lovely,” she murmured. “Isn’t it really gorgeous!”
DY

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
She turned over and relaxed, lying back motionless in the water with
her arms stretched out sideways. Her gleaming white thighs and arms
floated on the surface.
“So you were born in Guérande?” she asked.
“Yes,” he replied. “I’ve only been once as far as Nantes.”
In order to talk more comfortably, Hector now also turned over on to
his back. He gave details of his upbringing, for which his mother had
been responsible: a narrowly devout woman whose values had been the
traditional ones of the old aristocracy. He had had a priest as tutor who
had taught him more or less what he would have learnt in a private school,
plus large amounts of catechism and heraldry. He rode, fenced and took
a great deal of exercise. And with all this, he seemed as innocent as a
babe in arms. He went to mass every week, never read novels and when
he reached his majority, would be marrying a very plain cousin.
“Goodness me! So you’re only just twenty,” exclaimed Estelle, casting
an astonished glance at this young colossus. Her maternal instincts
were aroused; this fine specimen of the Breton race intrigued her. But
as they continued floating on their backs, lost in contemplation of the
transparent blue sky and quite oblivious of land, they drifted so close
together that he slightly knocked against her.
“Oh, I’m sorry,” he said.
And dived and came to the surface five yards away. She burst into
laughter and began to swim again.
“You boarded me!” she cried.
He was very red in the face. He swam nearer again, watching her slyly.
Under her broad-brimmed straw hat, she seemed to him delightful. He
could see nothing but her face and her dimpled chin dipping into the
water. A few drops of water dripped from the blonde curls escaping
from beneath her bathing cap, and glistened like pearls on the down of
her cheeks. He could imagine nothing more charming than the smile
and pretty face of this young woman swimming ahead of him, gently
splashing and leaving behind her merely a silvery trail.
When he noticed that Estelle realized that she was being watched and
was amused at the odd figure he was certainly cutting, Hector blushed
an even deeper red. He tried to find something to say:
“Your husband seems to be getting impatient.”
“Oh, I don’t think so,” she replied calmly. “He’s used to being kept
waiting when I’m having a swim.”
98

SHELLFISH FOR MONSIEUR CHABRE * CHAPTER 2
In fact, Monsieur Chabre was becoming restless. He kept taking four
steps forwards, turning round and taking four steps backward, twirling
his sunshade even more vigorously in an endeavour to cool himself.
It suddenly occurred to Estelle that perhaps her husband hadn’t
recognized Hector.
“Tl call out and tell him it’s you,” she said.
And as soon as she was in earshot of the sea wall, she shouted:
“It’s the gentleman we met in Guérande who was so helpful.”
“Oh good!” Monsieur Chabre shouted back. He raised his hat and
said politely:
“Is the water warm?”
“Very pleasant, thank you,” Hector replied.
Their bathe continued under the eye of the husband who could now
hardly complain, even though his feet were excruciatingly hot from
having to stand on the scorching stones. At the end of the sea wall,
the water was wonderfully transparent and you could see the fine
sandy bottom some two or three fathoms down, speckled here and
there with pale or dark pebbles amidst waving tendrils of seaweed
rising perpendicularly towards the surface. Estelle was fascinated by
the clearness of the water as she swam gently along in order not to
ruffle the surface, bending her head forwards until the water came
up to her nose and watching the sand and the pebbles stretched out
in the mysterious depths below. She was especially fascinated by the
clumps of green seaweed that seemed almost like living creatures with
their swaying jagged leaves resembling hundreds of crabs’ claws, some
of them short and sturdy growing between the rocks and others long
and flexible like snakes. She kept uttering little cries each time she
discovered something new:
“Oh what a big stone! It looks as if it’s moving... Oh, there’s a tree, a
real tree with branches! Oh, there’s a fish! It’s darting away!”
Then suddenly she exclaimed:
“What on earth is that? It’s a wedding bouquet! Do you think there
really are wedding bouquets in the sea? Look, wouldn’t you say that
they’re like orange blossoms? Oh, it’s so pretty!”
Hector immediately dived and came up with a fistful of whitish
seaweed which drooped and faded as soon as it left the water.
“Oh, thank you so much,” said Estelle. “You shouldn’t have bothered...
Here you are, keep that for me, will you?” she added, throwing the bunch
99

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
of seaweed at her husband’s feet. For a few moments the young couple
continued their swim. The air was filled with spray from their flailing
arms and then, suddenly, they relaxed and glided through the water, in
a circle of ripples which spread out and died away, and the surging water
around them filled them with a private sensual pleasure all their own.
Hector was trying to glide along in the wake of Estelle’s body as it slid
through the water and he could feel the warmth left by the movement of
her limbs. All around, the sea had become even calmer and its pale blue
had taken on a touch of pink.
“You'll be getting cold, my dear,” urged Monsieur Chabre, who was
dripping with sweat himself.
“All right, ’m coming out,” she replied.
And so she did, pulling herself up quickly with the help of a chain
hanging down the sloping side of the sea wall. Hector must have
been watching for her to climb out, but when he raised his head on
hearing the spatter of drops she left behind, she was already on the
platform and wrapped in her bathing robe. He looked so surprised and
disconcerted that she had to smile as she gave a little shiver, and she
gave a little shiver because she knew that she was charming when she
did so, draped in her bathrobe with her tall figure standing out against
the sky.
The young man reluctantly took his leave.
“We hope to see you again,” the husband said.
And while Estelle ran back along the sea wall, watching Hector’s head
disappearing over the water as he swam back across the bay, Monsieur
Chabre walked after her with the bunch of seaweed gathered by the
young man solemnly held out in order to avoid wetting his frock coat.
3
Ihep irIAC the Chabres had rented the first floor of a large house over-
looking the sea. As the village had no decent restaurants, they had
had to take on a local woman to cook for them. And a queer sort of
cook she was, producing roasts burnt to a cinder and such peculiar-
looking sauces that Estelle preferred to stick to bread. But as Mon-
sieur kept pointing out, they hadn’t come to enjoy the pleasures of
the table. In any case, he hardly touched either the roasts or the sauces
100

SHELLFISH FOR MONSIEUR CHABRE + CHAPTER 3
for he was stuffing himself, morning, noon and night, on shellfish of
every description, with the determination of someone taking medi-
cine. The unfortunate thing was that he loathed these strange, oddly
shaped creatures, having been brought up on a typical middle-class
diet of insipid hygienic food, and retained his childish predilection for
sweet things. The queer flavour and salty fieriness of shellfish burnt his
tongue and made him pull a face every time he swallowed them, but in
his eagerness to become a father, he would have swallowed the shells
themselves.
“Estelle, you’re not eating any,” he would exclaim, for he insisted
that she should eat as many as he and when Estelle pointed out that Dr
Guiraud hadn’t mentioned her, Monsieur Chabre replied that, logically,
they should both submit to the same treatment. Estelle pursed her lips,
let her bright eyes rest for a moment on her husband’s pasty paunch
and could not repress a slight smile which deepened the dimples on
her cheek. She made no comment, for she did not like hurting people’s
feelings. Having discovered that there was a local oyster bed, she even
consented to eat a dozen of them at every meal, not because she,
personally, needed oysters, but she adored them.
Life in Piriac was monotonous and soporific. There were only three
families of holidaymakers: a wholesale grocer from Nantes, a former
lawyer from Guérande, as naive as he was deaf, and a couple from
Angers who spent all day waist-deep in the sea, fishing. The restricted
company would hardly be described as boisterous. They would greet
each other each time they met but made no attempt to further their
acquaintance. The greatest excitement was provided by the occasional
dogfight on the deserted quayside.
Accustomed to the noise and bustle of Paris, Estelle would have been
bored to death had Hector not taken to calling every day. After going
for a walk with Monsieur Chabre along the coast, he had become a
firm friend of the older man who in an expansive moment had confided
to him the purpose of his trip, in the discreetest possible terms, in
order not to shock the modest young man’s delicate sensibilities. When
he mentioned the scientific reason for eating such vast quantities of
shellfish, Hector was so amazed that he forgot to blush and looked
him up and down without even bothering to conceal his surprise that
a man might need to submit to such a diet. Nevertheless, the following
morning he presented him with a small basketful of clams which the
101

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
ex-corn merchant accepted with obvious gratitude. Since then, being
a highly competent all-round fisherman and familiar with every rock
in the bay, Hector had never come to the house without bringing some
shellfish: superb mussels which he had gathered at low tide; sea urchins
which he cut open and cleaned, pricking his fingers in the process; and
limpets which he prised off the rocks with the tip of his knife; in a word,
every kind of shellfish, often bearing barbarous names, and which he
would never have dreamt of eating himself. No longer having to spend
a penny on his diet, Monsieur Chabre was profuse in his thanks.
Hector now had a permanent pretext to come to the Chabres’ flat.
Every time he arrived carrying his little basket, he would make the
same remark when he saw Estelle:
“I’m bringing your husband some shellfish.”
And the couple would exchange a smile with a glint in their half-
closed eyes; they found Monsieur Chabre’s shellfish rather funny.
Estelle now discovered that Piriac was full of charm. Every day after
her bathe, she would go for a walk with Hector; her husband lumbered
along, heavy-footed, some distance behind; they often went too fast
for him. Hector would point out examples of Piriac’s more elegant
past, remains of sculpture and delicately worked ornamental doors
and windows. By now, what used to be a town had become merely a
remote village with its narrow streets blocked by dung heaps and lined
with gloomy hovels. But Estelle found the stillness and isolation so
charming that she was quite prepared to step over the foul-smelling
pools of liquid seeping from the middens, intrigued by every quaint
old-world corner and peering inquisitively at the miserable gimcrackery
lying about the mud floors of the local inhabitants’ poverty-stricken
houses. Hector would stop and show her the superb fig trees in the
gardens, with their broad, furry, leathery leaves overhanging the low
fences. They went into the narrowest little streets and leaned over the
brinks of the wells to look at their smiling faces mirrored in the clear
shining water below, while behind them Monsieur Chabre was busy
digesting his shellfish in the shade of the green-lined sunshade which
never left his grasp.
One of Estelle’s great joys was to see the groups of pigs and
geese roaming freely round the village. At first she had been terribly
frightened of the pigs because the unpredictable movements of their fat
sturdy bodies supported on such puny little feet made her continually
102

SHELLFISH FOR MONSIEUR CHABRE + CHAPTER 3
apprehensive of being knocked into and tipped over, and they were
filthy, too; with their bellies covered in black mud, they kept grunting
all the time as they grubbed in the ground with their dirty snouts. But
Hector assured her that pigs were the nicest sort of animals and now
she was amused to see how they dashed wildly up to be fed and she
loved their fresh pink skin looking like a silky evening gown, after
the rain had washed them clean. The geese fascinated her, too. Two
gaggles of them would often meet at the end of a lane beside a holeful
of dung, coming from opposite directions. They seemed to greet each
other with a click of their beaks and then joined forces to pick over
the vegetable peelings floating on the surface. One of them would
climb majestically on to the top of the pile, stretching out his neck and
opening his eyes wide; he seemed almost to be strutting as he fluffed
out the down on his breast; with his prominent yellow nose, he looked
like a real king of the castle. Meanwhile the others bent their necks to
peck at the ground, quacking in unison as they did so. Then, suddenly,
the big goose would come squawking down from the top and the geese
belonging to his group would follow him away, all poking out their
necks in the same direction and waddling in time, as if they all had a
limp. If a dog appeared, they would stretch their necks out even more
and start hissing. At this, Estelle would clap her hands and follow the
solemn procession of the two companies of geese as they made their
way home like highly respectable people intent on important business.
Another of her entertainments was to see both pigs and geese going
down to the beach in the afternoon, just like human beings.
On her first Sunday in Piriac, Estelle felt that she ought to go to mass,
something which she never did in Paris. But in the country, mass was
a way of passing the time, and a chance to dress up and see people.
Indeed, she met Hector there, reading out of an enormous prayer book
whose binding was coming unstuck. He did not take his eyes off her,
peeping over the top of his book while still reading religiously, but the
glint in his eye hinted that he was smiling inwardly. As they were leaving
the church, he offered his arm to Estelle as they were passing through
the churchyard. In the afternoon, after Vespers, there was another
spectacle, a procession to a Calvary at the other end of the village.
A peasant led the way carrying a purple silk banner embroidered in
gold and attached to a red shaft. Then followed two straggling lines
of women. The priests were in the middle; the parish priest with his
103

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
curate and the local squire’s tutor were all singing at the tops of their
voices. Bringing up the rear, behind a white banner carried by a brawny
girl with tanned arms, there came the congregation, tramping along
in their heavy clogs like a disorderly flock of sheep. As the procession
passed beside the harbour, the banner and the white headdresses of the
women stood out against the bright blue sea and in the sunlight, the
slow procession suddenly took on a simple grandeur.
The little churchyard made Estelle feel all sentimental, although
normally she didn’t like sad things. On the day she had arrived, she had
shuddered at the sight of all those graves underneath her window. The
church was not far from the sea and the arms of the crosses all around
it stretched out towards the immense sky and sea; on windy nights, the
moisture-laden sea breeze seemed to be weeping on this forest of dark
wooden posts. But she quickly became accustomed to this mournful
sight, for the tiny churchyard had something gentle and even cheerful
about it. The dead seemed to be smiling in the midst of the living, who
were almost rubbing elbows with them. As the cemetery was enclosed
by a low wall and thus blocked the way through the centre of Piriac,
people did not think twice about stepping over the wall and following
the paths which were almost invisible in the tall grass. Children used
to play there, scampering about all over the granite flagstones. Cats
would suddenly leap out from under the bushes and chase each other;
you could often hear their amorous caterwauling and see their dark
shapes with fur bristling and long tails waving in the air. It was a
delightful corner covered with weeds and enormous fennel plants with
broad yellow flowers; on a warm day, their heady perfume would come
wafting up from the graves, filling the whole of Piriac with a scent of
aniseed. And at night, how still and gentle the green graveyard was!
The peace of Piriac itself seemed to be emanating from the cemetery.
The darkness hid the crosses and people taking a late evening stroll
would sit down on the granite benches against the wall and watch the
waves rolling in almost at their feet, enjoying the salty tang of the sea
carried in on the evening breeze.
One evening as Estelle was going home on Hector’s arm she felt a
sudden desire to go through the deserted graveyard. Monsieur Chabre
thought it was a romantic whim and showed his protest by himself
going along the quayside. The path was so narrow that Estelle was
obliged to let go of Hector’s arm. In the tall grass her skirt made a
104

SHELLFISH FOR MONSIEUR CHABRE + CHAPTER 3
long swishing sound. The scent of fennel was so overpowering that
the lovelorn cats did not run away but remained lying languidly in the
undergrowth. As they came into the shadow of the church, she felt
Hector’s hand touch her waist. She gave a startled cry.
“How stupid!” she exclaimed as they came out of the shadow. “I
thought I was being carried off by a ghost.”
Hector laughed and offered his own explanation:
“Tt must have been the fennel brushing against your skirt.”
They stopped to look at the crosses all around them and the profound
stillness of the dead lying beneath their feet filled them with a strange
tenderness. They moved on, full of suppressed emotion.
“You were scared; I heard you,” said Monsieur Chabre. “It serves
you right!”
Athigh tide, they would amuse themselves by going down to watch the
arrival of the sardine boats; Hector would tell the Chabres when a sail
was seen making for the harbour. But after seeing a few boats come in,
Monsieur Chabre announced that it was always the same thing. Estelle
on the other hand never seemed to weary of the scene and enjoyed
going out onto the sea wall more and more. They often had to run. She
would leap over the uneven stones, her skirts flying in the air, and she
would catch hold of them to avoid tripping over. When she arrived, she
was quite puffed and, putting her hand on her chest, she would throw
her head back to regain her breath. With her dishevelled hair and
devil-may-care boyish air, Hector found her adorable. Meanwhile the
boat had tied up and the fishermen were carrying up their baskets of
sardines which glistened in the sun like silver with blue and sapphire,
pink and pale ruby-red tints. The young man always provided the same
information: a basket contained a thousand sardines which would
fetch a price fixed every morning according to the size of the catch;
the fishermen would share the proceeds of the sale after handing over
one third to the owner of the boat. Then the sardines would be salted
straight away in wooden boxes with holes to allow the brine to drip
away. However, Estelle and her companion gradually came to neglect
the sardines. They would still go and see, but they didn’t look. They
would hurry down to the harbour and then return in silence, lazily
gazing at the sea.
“Was it a good catch?” Monsieur Chabre would enquire each time
they returned.
105

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
“Yes, very good,” they would reply.
And every Sunday evening Piriac put on an open-air dance. The
young men and girls of the district would join hands and dance round
in a circle for hours on end, droning out the same strongly accentuated
refrain, and as these harsh voices boomed out in the half-light, they
gradually took on a kind of barbaric charm. As she sat on the beach
with Hector lying at her feet, Estelle was soon sunk in daydreams.
The sea came lapping in, gently but boldly; as it broke on the sand, it
seemed like a voice full of passion suddenly stilled as the sound died
away and the water receded with a plaintive murmur like a love that
had now been tamed. And Estelle would sit dreaming of being loved
by a giant whom she had succeeded in turning into a little boy.
“You must be bored in Piriac, my dear,” Monsieur Chabre would
occasionally say, in an enquiring tone, to his wife.
And she would hasten to reply:
“Oh no, not at all, I promise you.”
She was, in fact, enjoying her stay in this remote, dead-and-alive little
place. The geese and pigs and sardines had assumed great importance;
even the little churchyard was a cheerful spot. This drowsy, unsociable
sort of life in a village inhabited only by the grocer from Nantes and
the deaf lawyer from Guérande seemed more exciting than the bustling
existence of the fashionable resorts. After a fortnight, bored to tears,
Monsieur Chabre would willingly have returned home to Paris. Surely
the shellfish must have produced their effect by now, he said. But she
protested:
“Oh no, my dear, you haven’t had enough yet... I’m quite sure you
need still more.”
4
© NE EVENING, Hector said to the couple:
“Tomorrow there’s an exceptionally low tide. We could go
shrimping.”
Estelle was delighted by the suggestion. Oh yes, they certainly must
go and catch shrimps! She’d been looking forward to this excursion for
ages! But Monsieur Chabre had objections. First of all, you never catch
anything... Furthermore, it was much simpler to go and buy a franc’s
106

SHELLFISH FOR MONSIEUR CHABRE + CHAPTER 4
worth of shrimps from a local fisherman, without having to get wet
up to your middle and scrape the skin off your feet. But in face of his
wife’s enthusiasm, he was forced to give way.
There were elaborate preparations. Hector undertook to provide the
nets. Despite his dislike of cold water, Monsieur Chabre had expressed
his willingness to participate and, once having agreed, he was deter-
mined to do the job properly. On the morning of the expedition, he
had a pair of boots dubbined; he then dressed himself in white twill
from top to toe, but his wife could not persuade him to forgo his bow
tie, the ends of which he fluffed out as if he were going to a wedding.
The bow tie was his protest, as a respectable member of society, against
the slovenliness of the Atlantic. As for Estelle, she merely slipped a
shift over her bathing costume. Hector was also wearing a bathing
costume.
The three of them set off at about two o’clock in the afternoon with
their nets over their shoulders. It was more than a mile across sand and
seaweed to reach the rock where Hector had promised they would find
plenty of shrimps. He piloted the couple towards their goal, taking
them in a beeline through all the rock pools and calmly ignoring the
hazards on the way. Estelle followed intrepidly, cheerfully paddling over
the cool wet sand. Bringing up the rear, Monsieur Chabre could see no
need to get his boots wet before they reached the shrimping grounds.
He conscientiously skirted every pool, jumping over the channels of
water left behind by the ebbing tide and cautiously picking his way
over the dry spots like a true Parisian balancing himself on the tops of
the paving sets on a muddy day in the Rue Vivienne. He was already
out of breath and kept asking:
“Ts it still a long way? Why can’t we start shrimping here? I’m positive
I can see some... Anyway, they’re all over the place in the sea, aren’t
they? I bet you only need to push your net through the sand.”
“Go ahead and push, Monsieur Chabre,” replied Hector each time.
So in order to recover his breath, Monsieur Chabre would push
his net along the bottom of a pool not much larger than a pocket
handkerchief and as empty of shrimps as it was transparent. So he
caught nothing, not even seaweed. Then he would set off again,
pursing his lips and looking dignified, but as he lost ground each time
he insisted on proving that there were shrimps everywhere, he ended by
dropping a long way behind.
107

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
The tide was still going out, retreating almost a mile from the coast.
As far as the eye could see, the rocky, pebbly sea bed was emptying out,
leaving a vast, wet, uneven and desolate wilderness, like some storm-
ravaged plain. In the distance the only visible thing was the green fringe
of the still receding sea, as if being swallowed up by the land, while
long, narrow bands of dark rock slowly emerged like promontories
stretching out in the stagnant water. Estelle stopped to look at this
immense, bare expanse.
“Isn’t it big!” she murmured.
Hector pointed to a number of greenish rocks worn smooth by the
waves.
“Those are only uncovered twice a month,” he explained. “People go
there to collect mussels. Can you see that brown spot over there? That’s
the Red Cow rocks, the best place to catch lobsters. You can’t see them
except at the two lowest tides of the year. But we must get a move on.
We’re going to those rocks over there whose tops are just beginning to
show.”
When they started to go into the sea, Estelle could hardly restrain her
excitement. She kept lifting her feet high in the air and bringing them
down with a splash, laughing as the spray shot up. Then, when the
sea came up to her knees, she strode along, delighted to feel the water
pressing hard against her thighs and surging between them.
“Don’t be scared,” said Hector, “You'll be getting into water up to
your waist but it becomes shallower after that. We’re nearly there.”
And after crossing a narrow channel, they waded out of the water
and climbed up on to a wide rocky platform uncovered by the tide.
When the young woman looked round, she uttered a cry of surprise at
seeing how far she had come from the shore. The houses of Piriac were
just a line of tiny white spots stretching out along the shore, dominated
by the square tower of its green-shuttered church. Never had she seen
such a vast expanse, with the strip of sand gleaming in the bright
sunlight and the dark green seaweed and brilliantly coloured rocks
glistening with water. It was as if the earth had reached its uttermost
limit in a heap of ruins on the brink of empty space.
Estelle and Hector were just about to start shrimping when they
heard a plaintive call. It was Monsieur Chabre stuck in the middle of
the channel and wanting to know which way to go. “How do I get
across?” he was shouting. “Do I keep straight on?”
108

SHELLFISH FOR MONSIEUR CHABRE : CHAPTER 4
“Go to your left,” called Hector.
He went to his left but the shock of finding himself in still deeper
water again brought him to a halt. He did not dare even to retrace his
steps.
“Come and help me,” he wailed. “I’m sure there are holes round
here. I can feel them...”
“Keep to your right, Monsieur Chabre, to your right!” shouted
Hector.
And the poor man looked so funny in the middle of the water, with
his net over his shoulder and his splendid bow tie, that Estelle and
Hector could not refrain from sniggering. In the end he managed to
find a way through but he arrived in a very nervous state and snapped
angrily:
“T can’t swim, you know.”
He now began to worry about how to get back. When the young man
explained to him how important it was not to be caught on the rock by
the rising tide, he started becoming anxious again:
“You will warn me, won’t you?”
“Don’t worry, I'll look after you.”
They all three started shrimping, probing the holes with their
narrow nets. Estelle showed a feminine enthusiasm and it was she who
caught the first shrimps, three large red ones which leapt about wildly
in her net. She called out to Hector to help her because she was rather
scared by their lively behaviour, but when she saw that they stopped
moving as soon as you caught hold of them by their heads, she became
bolder and had no trouble in slipping them herself into the little basket
which she was carrying slung over her shoulder. Sometimes she netted
a whole bunch of seaweed and had to rummage through it each time a
sound like the fluttering of wings warned her that shrimps were hidden
there. She sorted carefully through the seaweed, picking it up gingerly
between finger and thumb, rather uneasy at the strange tangle of
fronds, soft and slimy like dead fish. Now and again, she would peep
impatiently into her basket, keen to fill it.
“How odd,” Monsieur Chabre kept exclaiming. “I haven’t caught a
single one.”
Being afraid of venturing between the gaps in the rocks and greatly
hampered also by his boots which had become waterlogged, he was
pushing his net along the sandy beach and thereby catching nothing but
109

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
crabs, half a dozen or even up to ten of them at a time. They terrified
him and he wrestled with his net to tip them out. Every so often he
would turn anxiously round to see if the tide was still ebbing.
“You're sure it’s still going out?” he kept asking.
Hector merely nodded; he was shrimping with all the assurance of
a man who knows exactly where to go and as a result he was catching
great handfuls of them with each sweep of his net. Whenever he
found himself working beside Estelle, he would tip his catch into her
basket while she kept laughing and giving a wink in the direction of
her husband, with her finger to her lips. She looked most attractive
as she bent forwards over the long wooden handle of her net or else
leaning her blonde curly head over it as she eagerly peered to examine
her catch. There was a breeze blowing and the water dripping from her
net soaked her bathing costume with spray and made it cling to her,
revealing every contour of her youthful body.
They had been shrimping like this for some two hours when she
stopped for a rest, quite out of breath and with her honey-coloured
curls damp with perspiration. The immense deserted seascape still
spread out, peaceful and magnificent; only the sea could be seen
shimmering in the distance, creating a murmur that seemed to be
growing louder. The sun was blazing in a fiery sky; it was now four
o’clock and its pale blue had turned almost grey, but this leaden, torrid
heat was tempered and dispersed by the coolness of the water, and a
gentle haze dimmed the harsh glare. Estelle was particularly charmed
by the sight of a whole host of little black dots standing out very clearly.
on the horizon; they were shrimpers like themselves, incredibly delicate
in outline and no larger than ants, ridiculous in their insignificance
in the vast immensity; yet you could distinguish their every gesture,
their shoulders hunched over their nets and their arms reaching out
and gesticulating feverishly, like trapped flies, as they sorted out their
catch, wrestling with the seaweed and the crabs.
“Tassure you the tide’s coming in,” Monsieur Chabre called anxiously.
“Look over there, that rock was uncovered a moment ago.”
“Of course it’s coming in,” Hector retorted impatiently at last, “and
that’s exactly the time when you catch most shrimps.”
But Monsieur Chabre was beginning to panic. At his last attempt he
had just caught a strange fish, an anglerfish, whose freakish-looking
head had terrified him. He had had enough.
110

SHELLFISH FOR MONSIEUR CHABRE + CHAPTER 4
“Come on, let’s go. We must be going!” he kept repeating. “It’s stupid
to take risks.”
“But we’ve just been telling you that it’s the best time when the tide’s
starting to come in,” his wife replied.
“And it’s coming in with a vengeance!” Hector added in an undertone,
with a mischievous glint in his eyes.
The waves were indeed beginning to roll in, booming as they swallowed
up the rocks; a whole spit of sand would suddenly disappear, swamped
by the sea. The breakers were triumphantly retaking possession of their
age-old domain, foot by foot. Estelle had discovered a pool the bottom
of which was covered in long fronds of seaweed, swirling round like
strands of hair, and she was catching enormous shrimps, ploughing up
long furrows with her net and leaving behind large swathes, like a reaper.
She was thrashing around and determined not to be dragged away.
“All right then,” Monsieur Chabre exclaimed in a tearful voice,
“there’s nothing to be done, I’m off. There’s no sense in us all being
cut off.”
So he went off first, sounding the depth of the holes with the long
handle of his shrimping net. When he had gone two or three hundred
yards, Hector at last prevailed on Estelle to follow his example.
“We’re going to be up to our shoulders,” he said with a smile.
“Monsieur Chabre’s going to get a thorough wetting. Look how deep
he is already.”
Ever since the start of the outing, Hector had had the slightly furtive
and preoccupied look of a young man in love and promising himself to
declare his feelings, but he had not been able to pluck up courage to do
so. As he had slipped his shrimps into Estelle’s basket, he had indeed
endeavoured to touch her fingers but it was plain that he was furious
with himself for being so timorous. He would have been delighted to
see Monsieur Chabre fall into a hole and drown, because, for the first
time, he was finding the husband’s presence a hindrance.
“T tell you what,” he said suddenly, “you must climb up on my back
and I’ll give you a lift. Otherwise you’re going to get soaked through.
How about it? Up you get!”
He offered her his back but she blushed and declined, looking
embarrassed. He, however, refused to take no for an answer, arguing
that he was responsible for her safety. Eventually, she clambered up,
placing her two hands on his shoulders. He stood as firm as a rock,
111

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
straightened his back and set off, carrying her as lightly as a feather,
telling her to hang on tight as he strode through the water.
“We’ve got to go right, haven’t we?” Monsieur Chabre called out to
Hector in a plaintive voice. The water was already up to his hips.
“That’s it, keep going right,” the young man called back.
Then, as the husband turned to go on, shivering with fright when he
felt the water coming up to his armpits, Hector, greatly daring, kissed
one of the tiny hands resting on his shoulder. Estelle tried to draw it
away but Hector warned her to keep quite still or else he could not be
responsible for what would happen. He started kissing her hand again:
it was cool and salty and seemed to be offering all the bitter delights
of the Ocean.
“Will you please stop doing that,” Estelle kept protesting, trying to
sound cross. “You’re taking advantage of me. If you don’t stop, I’ll
jump off.”
He didn’t stop, nor did she jump off. He was keeping a tight hold
on her ankles while covering her hands with kisses, not saying a word
but also keeping a close eye on Monsieur Chabre’s back or at least all
that could be seen of his pathetic back, now threatening to disappear
beneath the waves at every step.
“Did you say keep to the right?” the husband called imploringly.
“Go left if you like!”
Monsieur Chabre took a step to his left and gave a cry. The water
had come up to his neck, submerging his bow tie. Hector gratefully
accepted the opportunity of making his declaration:
“T love you...”
“You’re not to say that, I forbid it!”
“I love you... | adore you... I haven’t had the courage to tell you so
up till now because I was afraid of offending you.”
He could not turn his head to look at her and continued to stride
along with water up to his chest. Estelle could not refrain from laughing
out loud at the absurdity of the situation.
“You must stop talking like that,” she went on, adopting a motherly
tone and giving him a slap on his shoulder. “Now, be a good boy and
above all, mind you don’t miss your step.”
Feeling the slap on his shoulder, Hector was filled with joy: it was the
seal of approval! And as poor Monsieur Chabre was still in trouble,
Hector gave a cheerful shout:
112

SHELLFISH FOR MONSIEUR CHABRE + CHAPTER 4
“Keep straight on now!”
When they reached the beach, Monsieur Chabre attempted to give
an explanation:
“Pon my word, I was nearly caught. It’s my boots,” he stammered.
But Estelle opened her basket and showed him it, full of shrimps.
“Did you catch all those?” he exclaimed in amazement. “You certainly
are a good shrimper!”
“Oh,” she replied with a smile, “this gentleman showed me the
way. ”
>
HE CHABRES HAD ONLY TWO DAYS LEFT IN PIRIAC. Hector seemed dis-
mayed and furious, yet humble. As for Monsieur Chabre, he re-
viewed his health every morning and seemed puzzled.
“You can’t possibly leave without visiting the Castelli rocks,” Hector
said one evening. “Let’s organize an excursion for tomorrow.”
He explained that the rocks were less than a mile away. They had
been undermined by the waves and hollowed out into caves which
extended for a mile and a half along the coast. According to him, they
were completely unspoilt and wild.
“All right, well go tomorrow,” said Estelle in the end. “Are they
difficult to get at?”
“No, there are just a couple of spots where you have to wade through
some shallow water, that’s all.”
But Monsieur Chabre did not want even to get his feet wet. Ever since
his experience of almost going under during the shrimping expedition,
he had harboured a grudge against the sea and so he expressed con-
siderable opposition to Hector’s suggestion. It was absurd to take risks
like that: in the first place, he was not going to climb down to those
rocks and risk breaking his leg jumping around like a goat; if he were
absolutely compelled to, he would accompany them on the cliff path
above and even that he would be doing only as a favour.
To make him relent, Hector had a sudden inspiration.
“T tell you what,” he said, “you’ll be going past the Castelli semaphore
station. Well, you can call in there and buy some shellfish from the crew.
They always have superb shellfish which they practically give away.”
ills

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
The ex-corn merchant perked up. “That’s a good idea,” he replied.
“T’ll take a little basket with me and Ill be able to have a final feast of
shellfish.”
And turning to his wife, he said with a leer: “Perhaps that’ll do the
trick.”
Next day, they had to wait for low tide before they set off and,
as Estelle was not ready in time, they in fact did not leave until five
o’clock. However, Hector assured them that they would not be caught
by the tide. The young woman was wearing cloth bootees over her bare
feet and a very short and slightly raffish-looking grey linen dress which
exposed a slim pair of ankles. As for Monsieur Chabre, he was dressed,
most correctly, in a pair of white trousers and a long alpaca coat. He
had brought his sunshade and a little basket; he had the appearance of
a respectable middle-class Paris gentleman setting off on a shopping
expedition.
Reaching the first of the rocks was awkward: they had to walk for
some distance over quicksands in which their feet sank. The ex-corn
merchant was soon puffing and blowing.
“All right then, I'll let you go on and Ill go up,” he gasped at last.
“That’s right, take that path there,” Hector replied. “If you come
any further, there’s no way up. Would you like some help?”
They watched him climb to the top of the cliff. Once there, he opened
his sunshade and, swinging his basket in the other hand, called down:
“T’ve done it, it’s much better up here. Now, don’t do anything rash,
will you? Anyway, I’ll be able to keep an eye on you from up here.”
Hector and Estelle began walking over the rocks. The young man
led the way, leaping from boulder to boulder in his high boots with the
grace and agility of a mountaineer. Estelle followed intrepidly on the
same stones and when he turned to ask:
“Shall I give you a hand?” she replied:
“Certainly not! Do you take me for a grandmother?”
They had now reached a vast floor of granite worn down by the
sea and hollowed out into deep crevasses. It was like the skeleton of
some sea monster whose dislocated vertebrae were protruding from
the sand. In the hollows there was flowing water and dark seaweed
was dangling like strands of hair. They continued to leap from stone
to stone, pausing now and then to recover their balance and laughing
each time they dislodged a boulder.
114

SHELLFISH FOR MONSIEUR CHABRE - CHAPTER 5
“They’re rather tame, your rocks,” said Estelle with a smile. “They
wouldn’t be out of place in a drawing room!”
“Just you wait,” retorted Hector. “You’ll see in a minute.”
They had reached a narrow passage, a sort of gap between two
enormous blocks of stone, and the way through was barred by a rock
pool, a hole full of water.
“Pll never get across that!” the young woman exclaimed.
He suggested carrying her but she shook her head: she was not going
to let herself be carried again. He then started looking round for some
rocks big enough to make stepping stones, but they kept slipping and
sinking to the bottom. Finally, losing patience, she said:
“Give me your hand, I’m going to jump.”
She jumped short and one foot went into the water and this made
them laugh again. Then, when they had gone through the passage, she
stopped and exclaimed out loud in admiration.
In front of her lay a large round bay full of gigantic tumbled rocks,
enormous blocks of stone standing like sentries keeping guard over
the waves. All along the foot of the cliffs the land had been eroded by
storms, leaving behind vast masses of bare granite, with creeks and
promontories, unexpected inlets forming deep caverns and beaches
littered with blackish slabs of marble looking like large stranded fish. It
was like some Cyclopean town, battered and ravaged by the sea, with its
battlements knocked down, its towers half demolished and its buildings
toppled and lying in heaps of ruins. Hector showed Estelle every nook
and cranny of these storm-wrecked ruins. She walked over sand as fine
and yellow as gold dust, with pebbles speckled with mica glinting in the
sun. She clambered over fallen rocks where she had, at times, to hang
on with both hands to prevent herself from slipping into the crevasses.
She went through natural porticos and triumphal archways curved like
those in Romanesque churches or soaring pointed arches like those of
Gothic cathedrals. She scrambled down into cool deserted hollows a
good dozen yards square, charmed by the blue thistles and dark-green
succulent plants standing out in contrast to the dark-grey walls of the
rock face on which they grew, and delighted by the friendly little brown
seabirds fluttering within her reach as they repeated their chirpy little
calls. And what amazed her most was that, each time she turned round,
she could see the ever-present blue line of the Atlantic stretching out,
majestic and calm, between every block of rock.
AS

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
“Ah, there you are!” cried Monsieur Chabre from the top of the cliff.
“IT was worried because I had lost sight of you... Aren’t these heights
terrifying?”
He was standing a good six yards back from the edge, shading
himself under his parasol with his little basket hitched over his arm.
He added:
“Tt’s coming in fast, be careful ieee
“There’s plenty of time, never fear,” replied Hector.
Meanwhile, Estelle had sat down and was gazing, speechless with
admiration, at the vast horizon. In front of her three round pillars
of granite, made smooth by the waves, were standing like the giant
columns of a ruined temple. Behind them, bathed in the golden half-
light of the evening, the open sea spread out, a royal blue speckled
with gold. In the far distance she could see a brilliant white dot, a
tiny sail skimming like a seagull over the surface of the water. The
calm of evening was already reaching out over the pale blue sky. Never
had she felt so overpowered by such an all-pervading tenderness and
exquisitely voluptuous delight.
“Let’s go,” said Hector, gently touching her arm.
She gave a start and stood up, full of languor and acquiescence.
“That little house with the mast is the semaphore, isn’t it?” called
Monsieur Chabre. “I’m going to get some shellfish, I'll catch you up
in a minute.”
Then, in an attempt to shake off the listlessness that had overtaken
her, Estelle set off running like a child, leaping over the puddles as she
made towards the sea, seized by a sudden whim to climb to the top of
a heap of rocks which would be completely surrounded by water at
high tide. And when, after scrambling laboriously through the gaps
in the rocks, she finally reached the top, she hoisted herself on to the
highest point and was delighted to see that she could dominate the
whole sweep of the tragically devastated coastline. She stood outlined
in the pure sea air, her skirt fluttering like a flag in the breeze.
As she came down, she peered into every little crevice as she passed.
In the smallest cranny, she could see tiny slumbering pools whose
limpid surfaces were reflecting the sky like shining mirrors. On the
bottom, emerald-green seaweed was growing, like some romantic
forest. The only living creatures were large black crabs which leapt up
like frogs before disappearing without even stirring up the water. The
116

SHELLFISH FOR MONSIEUR CHABRE - CHAPTER S$
young woman had a dreamy look in her eyes as if she had been granted
a glimpse into secret regions of a vast, mysterious and happy land.
When they had come back to the foot of the cliff, she noticed that her
companion had filled his handkerchief with some limpets.
“They’re for your husband,” he said. “I’ll take them up to him.”
At that very moment, a disconsolate Monsieur Chabre came into
sight.
“They hadn’t even got a mussel at the semaphore,” he shouted down
to them. “You see, I was right not to want to come.”
But on seeing Hector’s limpets, he cheered up, and he was staggered
at the young man’s agility as he clambered up by a track known only
to himself, over a cliff-face that seemed completely smooth rock. His
descent was even more impressive.
“It’s nothing, really,” Hector said. “It’s as easy as going upstairs once
you know where the steps are.”
Monsieur Chabre now suggested turning back: the sea was beginning
to look threatening. So he begged his wife at least to find an easy way
up to the top of the cliff. Hector laughed and replied that there was no
way suitable for ladies; they would now have to go on to the end. In any
case, they hadn’t yet visited the caves. Monsieur Chabre was compelled
to continue along the top of the cliffs by himself. As the sun was now
much lower in the sky, he closed his parasol and used it as a walking
stick. In his other hand, he held his basketful of limpets.
“Are you feeling tired?” Hector asked Estelle gently.
“A little bit,” she replied and took hold of the arm which he offered.
However, she was not tired, but her delicious feeling of languor was
slowly spreading through her whole body and the emotion she had
felt at seeing the young man hanging from the cliff-face had left her
trembling inwardly. They were walking slowly over a beach composed
of broken shells which crunched under their feet like a gravel garden
path. Both had again fallen silent. He showed her two wide openings
in the rock: the Monk’s Hole and the Cat’s Grotto. As they walked on
over another beach of fine sand, they looked at each other, still without
exchanging a word, and smiled. The tide was now coming in, rippling
gently over the sand, but they did not hear it. Up above, Monsieur
Chabre had started calling to them, but they did not hear him either.
“It’s sheer madness!” the ex-corn merchant was shouting, waving
his sunshade and swinging his basket of limpets. “Estelle! Monsieur
7

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
Hector! Listen to me! You’re going to be cut off! Your feet are already
getting wet.”
But they did not feel the cool water lapping round their feet.
“What’s the matter with him?” the young woman muttered at last.
“Oh, it’s you, Monsieur Chabre,” Hector called out. “There’s no
need to worry. We’ve only got the Lady’s Cave to look at now.”
Monsieur Chabre made a despairing gesture and repeated:
“Tt’s sheer madness! You’ll both be drowned.”
They were no longer paying attention... To avoid the rising tide, they
went along the foot of the cliff and finally came to the Lady’s Cave.
It was a grotto hollowed out of a vast block of granite that jutted out
towards the sea. Its roof, extremely high and wide, was shaped like a
dome. Storms had polished its walls until they shone like agate and the
pink and blue veins in the dark rock formed magnificent patterns of
arabesques like the barbaric handiwork of primitive artists decorating a
grandiose bathroom for a sea goddess. The gravelly floor of the cave, still
wet, was glittering like a bed of precious stones while at the far end there
was a softer bed of dry yellow sand, so pale as to be almost white.
It was here that Estelle sat down to inspect the grotto.
“It’s the sort of place you could live in,” she murmured.
But now Hector at last seemed to become aware of the tide and his
face assumed a look of dismay.
“Oh my goodness, we’re caught! The sea’s cut us off! We’re going to
have to wait for two hours...”
He went out and looked up at Monsieur Chabre who was standing
on top of the cliff, just above the grotto. He told him that they were
cut off.
“What did I tell you?” Monsieur Chabre cried triumphantly.
“But you refused to listen to me, didn’t you? Is there any danger?”
“None at all,” Hector replied. “The tide only comes fifteen or twenty
feet into the cave. The only thing is that we shall have to wait a couple
of hours before we can get out. There’s nothing to be alarmed at.”
Monsieur Chabre was annoyed: so they wouldn’t be back by dinner
time and he was already feeling hungry! It really was a mad sort of
outing! Then he sat down, grumbling, on the short grass, placing his
sunshade on his left and his basket of limpets on his right.
“Well, ’m going to have to wait, then,” he called. “Go back to my
wife and make sure she doesn’t catch cold.”
118

SHELLFISH FOR MONSIEUR CHABRE + CHAPTER 5
Back in the cave, Hector sat down beside Estelle. After a moment,
silently, he ventured to reach out and take hold of her hand. She did
not try to draw it away. She sat looking into the distance. Dusk was
falling and the light of the dying sun was veiled by a gentle haze. On
the horizon, the sky was taking on a tender tinge of deepest red and the
sea grew slowly darker, stretching out with not a soul in sight. The tide
crept gently into the cave, quietly lapping over the glittering shingle
and murmuring a promise of exquisite sea pleasures with its disturbing
salty tang of desire.
“T love you, Estelle,” Hector said, smothering her hands in kisses.
Choking with emotion, she made no reply, as though uplifted on the
rising tide. She was by now half-lying on the bed of fine sand, looking
like some sea nymph, caught unawares and already at his mercy.
Monsieur Chabre’s voice abruptly broke in, faint and hollow:
“Aren’t you hungry? I’m ravenous! Fortunately I’ve got my penknife,
so I’ll have a first instalment of my limpets.”
“T love you, Estelle,” said Hector again, taking her in his arms.
The night was dark and the pale sea lit up the sky. At the mouth of
the grotto, a plaintive murmur was rising from the water while a last
gleam of light deserted the top of the domed roof. The sea rippled and
a scent of fruitfulness was hanging in the air. Slowly Estelle’s head sank
on to Hector’s shoulder and on the evening air the breeze carried away
a murmur of sighs.
Up above, by the light of the stars, Monsieur Chabre was methodically
chewing away at his limpets and giving himself indigestion as he ate
the whole lot, without any bread.
6
INE MONTHS AFTER HER RETURN TO PARIS, the lovely Madame Cha-
bre gave birth to a bouncing boy. A delighted Monsieur Chabre
took Dr Guiraud aside and said proudly:
“It was the limpets that did the trick, I’m absolutely convinced
of it! I ate a whole basketful of them one evening, in very peculiar
circumstances, by the way. Anyway, never mind the details, doctor, but
I never thought shellfish could have such remarkable effects.”
119

Noont thee Te xts
Publication details and original titles of each story can be found in the
following Notes. For editions of the stories in French, please see the
Select Bibliography on p. 136.
Notes
p. 3, CAPTAIN BURLE (Le Capitaine Burle): The last of Zola’s stories
for Vestnik Evropy, it appeared in Russia in December 1880. It was
published twice separately in French periodicals before giving its title
to a collection of six short stories from Vestnik Evropy published in a
single volume in 1882; they included ‘The Way People Die’ (Comment
on meurt, which can be found in Attack on the Mill and Other Stories,
published by Alma Classics) and ‘Coqueville on the Spree’ (La Féte a
Coqueville). A further volume of six Vestnik Evropy stories followed
in 1884; it took its title from Nais Micoulin (‘A Flash in the Pan’, also
in Attack on the Mill and Other Stories), and included ‘Dead Men
Tell No Tales’ (La Mort d’Olivier Bécaille), ‘Shellfish for Monsieur
Chabre’ (Les Coquillages de Monsieur Chabre) and ‘Absence Makes
the Heart Grow Fonder’ (Jacques Damour, also in Attack on the Mill
and Other Stories).
If ‘Captain Burle’ is possibly the most squalid of all Zola’s short
stories, it is perhaps also, through its paucity of light relief, one
of his most disturbing. There is little comfort for optimists in this
tale of family pride leading a mother to instigate her son’s death
and drive her grandson to an early grave, and of military honour
bringing about the death of an officer at the hands of an old friend.
p. 4, Solferino: An Italian village in the province of Mantua, the scene
of a victory of Napoleon III’s army over the Austrians in June
1859.
p. 9, absinthe: A wormwood-flavoured French rotgut liqueur; its
sale was later banned.
p. 35, COQUEVILLE ON THE SPREE (La Féte a Coqueville): Published in
Vestnik Evropy in August 1879, in French in May 1880. This story
shows flashes of optimism of a sort rare in Zola: it seems to be
suggested that man’s natural goodness, here released by massive
doses of free alcohol, can rise above influences of history and
120

NOTES
environment. But Zola obviously has tongue in cheek, and the only
glimpse into the future shows the downtrodden Monsieur Mouchel
tanning the hide off the acerbic Madame Veuve Dufeu.
. 3S, Louis XIII: Takes us back to the period 1610-43.
. 37, Brisemotte: French for a “clod-crusher”, a sort of harrow — but
an earlier familiar meaning of motte was the mons Veneris.
. 37, La Queue... Louis Philippe... pigtail: Louis Philippe reigned
from 1830-48, long after pigtails (French, queue) were outmoded.
. 39, the Emperor: Strange to have been so called because he had
served under a king, but nicknames are like that, and anything
imperial is military. Charles X reigned from 1824 to 1830.
. 39, sous-préfet: For administrative purposes, France is divided into
ninety-odd départements, each under a préfet, and each département
is subdivided into arrondissements of which the head is a sous-
prefet.
. 48, ratafia: A liqueur flavoured with almond, peach, apricot or
cherry kernels.
. 55, tuica calugaresca... Serbian slivovitz: Zola obviously enjoyed
dredging up the names of very exotic spirits and liqueurs: even in our
well-travelled, affluent age, while Serbian (or Yugoslavian) slivovitz
is not unfamiliar to many, Romanian tuica calugareasca (misspelt
by Zola) — also a plum brandy — is less likely to be widely known.
“Calugareasca” tells us that, like trappistine (made by Trappist
monks), this tuica is made by monks.
. 63, DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES (La Mort d’Olivier Bécaille): Published
in Vestnik Evropy in March 1879 and in France a month later (see
note to ‘Captain Burle’ above). The story reveals an underlying
morbidity in Zola.
. 63, Rue Dauphine: In the sixth arrondissement, on the Left Bank
near Saint-Germain-des-Pres.
. 85, my sense of direction: Bécaille must have been buried in the
Montparnasse cemetery, like the Comte de Verteuil in ‘The Way
People Die’.
. 89, SHELLFISH FOR MONSIEUR CHABRE (Les Coquillages de Monsieur
Chabre): Published in Vestnik Evropy in September 1876; section
four appeared separately in France in July 1881, and the whole story
appeared in the collection of stories published under the general
title of Nais Micoulin in 1884 (see note to ‘Captain Burle’ above).
121

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
Zola wrote that the chief character in this story was the sea (he
had holidayed in Piriac, on the Atlantic coast south of Nantes, in
1876,.and many personal memories of the landscape have been
incorporated). It is also an excellent manual of seduction for the use
of males and females.
We

Extra Material
on
Emile Zola’s
Dead Men Tell No Tales
and Other Stories

sie a a
10°, Gund GeweseSP ig
B.ayuinehia aera etme
: of ns, tg8-w t dial
= @eloSolimg- ©
; => ssinh OM MST aah head :
: i eeca

Emile Zola’s Life
Emile Zola was born in Paris on 2nd April 1840, the son of Birth and Childhood
Francesco Zolla, an Italian civil engineer from Venice, and
Emilie Aubert, from a small town near Chartres. Zola spent
his early life in Aix-en-Provence. His father, in charge of the
construction of a canal to supply Aix with drinking water,
died in 1847, and the Canal Zola was only completed in 1854.
The young Emile was deeply affected by the death of his
father, which seems to have resulted in an increased sense of
attachment to his mother. She faced great difficulties raising
him on her own, although she did have the support of her
parents, who had also moved to Aix two years previously. The
Zola household was now quite impoverished, which led Emilie
in 1849 to embark on an ultimately fruitless decade of legal
wranglings with the Société du Canal Zola in order to keep the
modest pension they paid her and receive due compensation
for her shares.
Despite this loss, Zola’s childhood appears to have been an Youth
idyllic and happy one. His mother allowed him much freedom,
although she was also very protective of her young son, who
was small and sickly and stuck out in southern France with
his Parisian accent. But by the time Emile was eight, it became
clear to her that he needed schooling, which was beyond her
means at the time. After a term spent at the Pension Notre-
Dame, Emile was enrolled on a scholarship at the Collége
Bourbon, a Jesuit school where Aix notables and rich farmers
sent their children. On the one hand, the College Bourbon
was austere to the point of extreme discomfort, renowned for
terrible food and the absence of heating, but on the other it
was remarkably lax compared to most Jesuit establishments
and offered beautiful premises. Zola was one of the top
125

EMILE ZOLA * DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
students during his six years there, when he won prizes in
French narration — he later claimed he was spurred on by the
shadow of his father and the fact that he knew he would later
in life be dependent on his own efforts — but he was also fond
of camaraderie and the countryside. Despite initially suffering
the harassment reserved for beneficiaries of bursaries, he
made long-standing friends there, the most famous of them
being the future Impressionist painter Paul Cezanne. During
this period, he read widely, especially authors such as Dumas,
Sue, Féval, Hugo, Lamartine and Musset.
When her mother Henriette died and things came to a head
Move to Paris
in her legal action, requiring her to be in Paris, Mme Zola
moved to the capital at the end of 1857, with Emile and his
grandfather joining her in February of the following year.
Through a connection, his mother managed to secure a place
for him at the prestigious Lycée Saint-Louis, where the shy,
provincial and impecunious eighteen-year-old Zola again
found it difficult to fit in. He missed Aix-en-Provence and his
friends there, and found it difficult to keep up academically
in Paris, although he did win the second prize for narration.
That autumn he fell gravely ill for several months, and failed
his baccalauréat in science twice in 1859.
Hardship This scuppered his plan to become an engineer and, in 1860,
faced with the increasing impoverishment he and his mother
were experiencing, he briefly took on a clerk’s position at the
customs house of the Canal Saint-Martin. The drudgery of
this occupation made him miserable. In 1862, after various
office jobs and periods of unemployment — which did however
enable him to read extensively and start moving in artistic
circles — Zola began work, thanks to a family friend, with
Hachette and Company, France’s most important publishing
house. Initially placed in the post room, he was soon promoted
by his employers to the publicity department, where he
eventually became the manager. Working in this department
provided him with the platform to launch a literary career, as it
enabled him to learn how the milieu operated and meet many
established authors on Hachette’s books, as well as journalists
and new talent. He began to write short stories: 1863 saw
the publication of two of them, which appeared with several
more in the collection published in November 1864, Stories
for Ninon. In 1865 appeared The Confession of Claude, an
autobiographical novel written in the first person, recounting
126

EXTRA MATERIAL
a young man’s (illicit) initiation into the ways of love. At
this early stage, a key feature of Zola’s career was already in
evidence, namely the parallel output in the fields of literature
and journalism: Zola had regular articles and columns in the
press, and in 1866 was able to leave Hachette to take up a
position as columnist with L’Evénement. It is worth stressing
that Zola — though clearly a highly original, distinctive and
extraordinarily prolific writer — is somewhat symptomatic of
a phenomenon which, though by no means unprecedented,
became the norm over the course of the nineteenth century as
publishing and the press became mass industries, and culture
as well as society became increasingly democratized. This was
the phenomenon of the professional author who lived from
writing, as opposed to the gentleman of leisure, whose private
income allowed time for literary pursuits. The dual character
of Zola’s early activities also foreshadows another distinctive
aspect of his career: the involvement of the writer in the
domain of public affairs. As for his private life, he began a
relationship with Alexandrine Meley, who would become his
wife in 1870.
After the publication in 1867 of his successful but con- The Rougon-Macquart
troversial novel Thérése Raquin, Zola sent a plan to its Series
publisher Albert Lacroix for a series of ten novels — which
was to become known as the Rougon-Macquart cycle — about
various members and generations of a family living during
the social transformations and political upheavals of the
previous two decades. This was not an altogether unusual
project for a politically engaged journalist contributing to
a number of opposition newspapers on matters of political
actuality. Nor was Zola, on the literary front, necessarily
doing anything particularly original per se in writing a series
of novels about contemporary French society: this type of
totalizing social vision had also been expressed some decades
previously in Balzac’s Human Comedy, a cycle of novels
containing numerous recurring characters and depicting
the panoply of human activity in Restoration France. Zola
himself had written a series of interlinked stories about urban
life, The Mysteries of Marseille (1867), its title alluding to
Eugéne Sue’s melodramatic serial work The Mysteries of
Paris (1842-43).
What was strikingly original about Zola’s planned series
was that it combined this preoccupation with depicting the ‘
7

EMILE ZOLA * DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
totality of the modern world with what he referred to in the
plan sent to Lacroix as “questions of blood and milieux”.
That is, there was to be an underlying theme founded on
the rapidly developing science of heredity, the key aspect of
a broadly deterministic scientific basis for the motivation of
fictional characters living in various modern environments.
Zola’s stated intention was to “rummage around in the very
heart of the human drama, in those depths of life where great
virtues and great crimes come into being, and to rummage
there in a methodical fashion, led by the guiding thread of
new physiological discoveries”. This would facilitate the other
broad aim, namely “to study the Second Empire, from the
Coup d’Etat to the present day”. In 1869, Zola finished the
first novel in the series, The Fortune of the Rougons, charting
the origins of his fictional family and its involvement in major
political upheavals, and Lacroix offered him a contract for
the whole series, which developed from the originally planned
ten-volume work into a cycle of twenty novels published as
separate volumes — usually after their appearance in serial
form — between 1871 and 1893.
Height of Success In 1870, in the middle of the Franco-Prussian conflict,
Zola worked for the war-time government in Bordeaux. After
another brief spell away from the capital during the bloody
Paris Commune episode the following spring, Zola began
enjoying unprecedented success as a novelist and public figure.
He published novels in his Rougon-Macquart series at the
rate of almost one a year. As well as the various artists he had
been associating himself with and whom he often defended in
his articles, he established friendships with many of the most
important authors of the time, such as Flaubert, Daudet,
Maupassant, Turgenev and Mallarme. The seventh Rougon-
Macquart novel, L’Assommoir, was a commercial and critical
sensation, although — like most of his novels — it polarized
readers and reviewers, with some left shocked by its graphic
depictions of poverty and alcoholism. The sales of that book
meant that he was able to afford a villa in Médan in 1878,
to which he had several extensions made in subsequent years.
In 1881 he was elected as a local councillor to the town of
Medan, and on 14th July 1888 he was awarded the French
Legion of Honour. To his great annoyance, however, he failed
in successive bids, from 1889 onwards, to be voted into the
prestigious Académie Frangaise.
128

EXTRA MATERIAL
This successful period had its difficult moments, such
as the death in October 1880 of his beloved mother, which
came shortly after the passing away of Flaubert, who had
become a kind of father figure as well as a friend. He was
also periodically beset by ill health, suffering mostly from
complaints of a nervous nature.
During this period, there was a major twist in his domestic Jeanne Rozerot
situation: much like the protagonist in the final Rougon-
Macquart novel, Doctor Pascal — the story of the ageing
documenter of the Rougon-Macquart family rejuvenating
himself in the arms of a young woman — Zola found a new love
in his life. He had been married to Alexandrine Meley since
1870, and indeed remained with her for the rest of his life, but
in 1888 he began a long-term affair with Jeanne Rozerot, a
twenty-one-year-old Burgundian who had entered into service
in the Zola household. Very soon Zola had installed her in an
apartment in Paris, to which he would make frequent visits,
and in 1889 she gave birth to a daughter, Denise, followed by a
son, Jacques, in 1891. After Alexandrine discovered the affair
in 1892 thanks to an anonymous letter, there was a mutually
accepted arrangement, whereby Jeanne and the children lived
as part of the Zola family.
It has been written that this new-found romantic and family
bliss, although fulfilling Zola the man, somewhat took the edge
off Zola the author — indeed his subsequent novel cycle, The
Three Cities, failed to capture the public’s imagination in the
same way his previous series did, and has received less acclaim
— perhaps somewhat unfairly — to this day. Zola also felt that
he was the subject of unjust criticism, as he was sometimes
portrayed as being insensitive, hard-hearted and excessively
motivated by financial gain. Partly, perhaps, in order to dispel
this image, he consented to be the first subject of Dr Edouard
Toulouse’s “medico-psychological” study, which aimed to
investigate the pathologies of intellectually gifted individuals.
Toulouse concluded that Zola was mentally stable and well
balanced, and the author himself claimed in the preface to the
published report that he had always been spurred on by the
pursuit of truth above everything else.
Zola soon had a chance to demonstrate his commitment to The Public Intellectual:
truth and justice. No event illustrates better the engagement the Dreyfus Affair
of the writer in public life than the Dreyfus affair, which
created, or rather perhaps exacerbated, a political chasm in
129

EMILE ZOLA * DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
French society during the 1890s and still has repercussions
today. Captain Alfred Dreyfus, a Jewish army officer, was
falsely accused of passing French military secrets to Germany,
and in 1894 was found guilty, forced to undergo a military
degradation ceremony and sentenced to life imprisonment on
the penal colony of Devil’s Island.
After the acquittal at the beginning of 1898 of Commandant
Ferdinand Walsin Esterhazy, for whose involvement in the
initial passing of information there had been compelling
evidence (pointing by implication to Dreyfus’s innocence), an
open letter from Zola to Félix Faure, President of the Republic,
which has come to be known — after its banner headline — as
‘J’Accuse!’, was published in the newspaper L’Aurore on 13th
January. In the letter, in fact quite a lengthy article, Zola took
to pieces the case against Dreyfus and catalogued the deceit of
individuals within the military high command in doing their
best to keep an innocent man in prison, exile and ignominy,
for the sake of shoring up the authority of the army and the
state. The following month Zola was tried for having accused
the court-martial of knowingly acquitting a guilty man, and
sentenced to a year in prison. The conviction was quashed on
appeal, but a further writ emerged, and in July 1898 Zola fled
to England for a year — during which time he was stripped
of his Legion of Honour — remaining in exile until, in June
1899, a review of the case was ordered, vindicating Zola and
allowing him to return. The sequence of events arising from
‘J’Accuse!’ meant that the details of the case were aired fully,
and a retrial was ordered: Dreyfus’s sentence was cut down
to ten years’ hard labour in 1899, and he was subsequently
pardoned and released.
The End After the Dreyfus affair, Zola’s stamina was undiminished,
and he launched himself into his next project, a four-volume
series entitled The Four Gospels. He managed to complete the
first three, Fecundity, Work and Truth, but the fourth volume
of this Utopian cycle, to be entitled Justice, never materialized.
Zola died on 29th September 1902 of asphyxiation, after
inhaling carbon monoxide fumes from a blocked fireplace in
his Paris apartment. The circumstances of Zola’s death were
suspicious, and there has been speculation ever since that he
may have been poisoned. Zola certainly had many enemies,
not least over his role in the Dreyfus affair, which had still not
been brought to its definitive conclusion, so such conjecture
130

EXTRA MATERIAL
cannot be dismissed lightly as conspiracy theory. Whatever
its cause, precisely because of the controversy it continues to
arouse, Zola’s death is further testimony to the power and
significance of the figure of the writer in the public domain.
Buried initially in Montmartre cemetery, Zola’s remains were
removed to the Panthéon in 1908 — a clear and unambiguous
acknowledgement of his contribution to French national
life.
Emile Zola’s Works
Since Zola was a professional writer and journalist, the extent
of his writings is vast to say the least. From an early age, he
composed poetry, and later in his career he made attempts to
write for the theatre as well. He was also a prolific letter-writer
throughout his life. By necessity, this section focuses on Zola’s
major works of fiction, but it should be borne in mind that
these form part of a much larger body of work.
Zola’s work from the late 1860s onwards begins to engage Thérése Raquin and
not only with history, politics and the modernity of a society Naturalism
undergoing rapid urbanization and industrialization, but also
with philosophical, sociological, medical and technological
ideas and developments. And present from the outset is a spirit
of specifically scientific, empirically observational enquiry,
which later comes to play a significant role in the literary
movement associated with Zola, known as Naturalism.
Although Naturalism did not immediately declare itself
as such and was not comprehensively formulated until
many years later, one of the movement’s key features, that
of a certain kind of scientific determinism, is already to be
found in Zola’s 1867 novel, Thérése Raquin, in which the title
character and her sweetheart kill her husband (who is also her
cousin) in order to be together, only to find that their horror
and guilt over their action prevents them from enjoying their
life together as lovers. The initial action prompts a logical
development: a psychological decline in both characters which
leads to the seemingly inevitable conclusion of insanity and
suicide, which are presented not as supernaturally ordained
moral just deserts, but as naturally determined consequences
as physiological as they are psychological. Thérese Raquin is
in some sense a prototype for the Naturalist novel, though
there are others, such as Zola’s next book, Madeleine Feérat,
ail

EMILE ZOLA * DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
the Goncourt brothers’ Germinie Lacerteux or — as Zola
would later claim himself — Flaubert’s Sentimental Education.
However, Thérése Raquin and Madeleine Férat are rather one-
dimensional works. It is Zola’s next project which develops
Naturalism’s remarkably wide-ranging scope as a form of
literature which deals with all aspects of modern life and is
underpinned by modern ideas from varied fields.
The Rougon- The Rougon-Macquarts, subtitled Natural and Social
Macquart Cycle History of a Family under the Second Empire, is the story of
two branches, one legitimate (Rougon), the other illegitimate
(Macquart), of a family from Plassans, a town in the South
of France usually held to be a fictionalized version of Aix-en-
Provence. However, it is also the story — or indeed set of stories
—of the wider context of the period in which it is set, namely the
Second Empire, the authoritarian regime of Louis-Napoléon
Bonaparte, Napoleon II, which styled itself on the Empire
of his uncle, Napoleon I. The Second Empire began with
Bonaparte’s coup d’état against the faltering Second Republic
on 2nd December 1851, and ended in his ignominious defeat
by Prussia at Sedan in September 1870, ushering in the Third
Republic. The period was a time of great social and political
change, most notably in infrastructural and economic terms.
Under the direction of Baron Eugéne-Charles Haussmann,
Prefect of the Seine, Paris was transformed from a labyrinth of
narrow medieval streets to an efficient network of boulevards
facilitating circulation between all parts of the city and rapid
movement to the new railway terminals and beyond; through
state support the railways expanded massively, especially
after 1860, to the extent that by 1870 all major cities were
within twenty-four hours of Paris, and passenger numbers
had increased within twenty-five years from 6 to 100 million.
The economy — not least because of the developments in Paris
— shifted to a model based on property speculation and capital
investment in industry.
During this period, characterized by unprecedented cap-
italist growth subordinated to massive state intervention and
control, France, though still at this stage a rural nation over
much of its territory, acquired all the characteristics of a
modern industrialized country. And it is France’s adjustment
to urban modernity, industry and capitalism that represents a
significant element of Zola’s novelistic project. As well as
charting the political birth pangs and death throes of the
132

EXTRA MATERIAL
peried, the Rougon-Macquart cycle depicts — in a highly
systematic way — modern social and industrial trends and
institutions, as the following examples illustrate.
The second novel in the series, The Kill (1871), examines
the mad rush for property in the new Paris being constructed
by Haussmann. The Belly of Paris (1873) shows in intimate
detail the workings of the central food markets in Paris, and
exploits the metaphorical potential of the idea of digestion,
showing economic competition as a struggle between fat
and lean (a theme taken up elsewhere in the series, notably
in Germinal). L’Assommoir (1876) provides a tragic account
of alcoholism among the urban poor in a transforming
city, which was a major breakthrough in making Zola a
household name. His reputation for crude realism was
enhanced by the publication of Nana (1880), a novel about
the oldest profession in its most up-to-date Parisian context,
in which the eponymous anti-heroine’s prostitution — seen as
poisoning the entire social body during the build-up to war
and the collapse of the regime — is attributed to her forebears’
drunkenness. The modern workplace is also a major theme:
Ladies’ Delight (1883) is a story set in one of the new Parisian
department stores selling mass-produced consumer goods,
while Germinal (1885) deals with industrial unrest in a mining
community in northern France. The Masterpiece (1886),
over which Cézanne — on whom the central character Claude
Lantier was allegedly based — fell out with Zola, is a novel
about the world of art (and its relationship with writing) in
an age when, at last, modern representational techniques
could represent modern life. Another recurrent feature in
Zola’s work is that of the network: The Human Beast (1890)
is a crime novel centred on the railway, represented as a
body spreading its interconnected tentacles throughout the
national territory; Money (1891) represents the world of high
finance as a circulatory system (as indeed does Karl Marx
— regularly alluded to in the novel — in Capital). These two
novels also have in common a sense of impending catastrophe,
metaphorically figuring the collapse of the Second Empire, a
collapse given concrete and literal expression in The Debacle
(1892), a novel about Jean Macquart’s experience in the
Franco-Prussian war. Although each of the novels just cited has
its own specific focus, they are all, in their representation of
the workings of various systems (social, bodily, technological,
Was,

EMILE ZOLA * DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
institutional, economic), in some way about the mechanisms
of society as a whole: not only do they illustrate how the system
functions, they also typically show what happens when it falls
into dysfunction — a dysfunction implicitly presented as being
inherent in the system rather than brought about through
external intervention. So, on the one hand, there is a totalizing
depiction of the society of the middle of the nineteenth century
(and in some sense also of that of the Third Republic, during
which Zola wrote most of the novels); on the other hand, this
is intimately connected with the “family” aspect of Zola’s
fictional cycle, itself informed by the novelist’s engagement
with new developments in science, medicine and technology.
As the cycle developed, the main features of Naturalism
began to cohere: extreme and profuse detail, scientific deter-
minism, the hereditary underpinning, the incorporation
of knowledge from various fields and engagement with the
modern world. Two elements in particular are worth bearing
in mind. Firstly, documentary exactitude based on research
and empirical observation. Naturalism is sometimes — with
some justification — portrayed as an extreme offshoot of earlier
Realism, in its concern for accuracy and its refusal to spare any
information, no matter how gruesome or shocking. But it is
perhaps in the area of documentary precision and the research
necessary for it that Zola’s Naturalism most impressively
fulfils the Realist brief to represent the modern world as it is.
While preparing Germinal, for example, Zola went down a
mine in northern France, and observed the labour and living
conditions of the miners and their families; for The Human
Beast, he arranged to travel on the footplate of a locomotive,
engaged in lengthy correspondence with railway employees
and read several technical works on the railways. And Ladies’
Delight presents a detailed analysis of the various mechanisms
involved in the functioning of the modern department store;
the store in the novel is based on two Parisian department
stores — Le Bon Marché, which still exists, and Le Louvre
— where Zola carried out research, involving interviews with
staff. No stone was left unturned in the mission to represent
reality accurately, and in accordance with “natural” (rather
than metaphysical or idealistic) principles.
Naturalism, however, was not as coherent a system as Zola’s
rhetoric — deployed in The Experimental Novel, Naturalism in
the Theatre (1881) and elsewhere — might have liked to claim,
134

EXTRA MATERIAL
and a number of Naturalist features were more prominent
in some novels than in others. If we consider Germinal, for
instance, the stress is on the heredity theme, expressed by
generations of miners inheriting obeisance and resignation
to a miserable life, and the fantastical “machine-monster”
metaphor of the mine as a devouring ogre. In The Human
Beast, we have perhaps the closest thing to “total” Naturalism,
in which the character of a psychopathic engine driver whose
uncontrollable urge to kill, inherited — like his sister Nana’s
tendency to prostitution — from his alcoholic forebears,
is paralleled in the relentless, unstoppable, mathematical
inexorability of his locomotive’s functioning. Other novels are
Naturalist in the sense that they deal with the natural cycles
of the earth, in particular The Joy of Life (1884) and Earth
(1887), which both have rural settings. Others are concerned
explicitly with the family history — such as The Fortune of
the Rougons, The Conquest of Plassans (1874) and Doctor
Pascal (1893). Others have a more institutional emphasis,
focusing on politics — such as His Excellency Eugéne Rougon
(1876), in which the hero scales the commanding heights of
the Bonapartist regime — or religion, such as Abbé Mouret’s
Transgression (1875), addressing the problematic question of
celibacy, and The Dream (1888), set around an ancient cathedral.
Doctor Pascal (1893) brings to anend the Rougon-Macquart
cycle in a highly self-referential way: Pascal Rougon drafts
the family tree from a series of dossiers which he has built
up on his relatives from both sides of the extended family.
The final version of the family tree is presented with the last
novel, which updates the versions provided with The Fortune
of the Rougons. The cycle ends with the death of Pascal and
simultaneously the birth of his child with his niece Clotilde,
identified only as “the unknown child” on the family tree.
This child is symbolic of the ultimate optimism of the Rou-
gon-Macquart series, which does nevertheless have some
very gloomy moments.
Zola’s later novels continue in the life-affirmingly opti- The Three Cities
mistic, quasi-religious vein of Doctor Pascal, the final instal-
ment of the Rougon-Macquart series. His next project was
a trilogy, The Three Cities, consisting of Lourdes (1894),
Rome (1896) and Paris (1897). Inspired initially by a visit
to Lourdes — which, after Bernadette Soubirous claimed to
have seen the Virgin Mary there in 1858, had become a major
HS)>)

EMILE ZOLA * DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES AND OTHER STORIES
pilgrimage centre and rallying point for religious fervour in
the face of an emboldened rationalism — the trilogy deals
with questions of faith, doubt and reason in the modern
age. Its central character, a priest called Pierre Froment, has
a crisis of faith and at the same time warms to a progressive
Catholic socialism, on which grounds he is summoned to
Rome to account for himself. Froment’s development might
be seen in the light of a sea change in the Vatican under the
pontificate of Leo XIII, under whom the Church began to
accommodate itself with modernity in a way unimaginable
under his ultraconservative predecessor Pius IX. Ultimately,
Pierre loses his faith, is defrocked and finds redemption in
work, love and the fight for social justice.
The Four Gospels As with the earlier trilogy, the Four Gospels cycle raises the
possibility of a secularized replacement for Christianity in
an age of reason and progress. Fecundity (1899), as its title
suggests, celebrates the remarkable extent of the progeny of
Pierre Froment’s son and his wife Marianne, and articulates
the potential for French civilization to spread itself throughout
a fertile and receptive world. Work (1901) depicts a religion
of humanity trumping both Christianity and capitalism in
an ideal worker-owned neo-Fourierist workplace which Luc
Froment has created from an abominable steelworks. Truth
(published posthumously in 1903) relates the Dreyfus Affair
in disguise, in a small-town setting. As we have seen above,
the fourth volume of the series, Justice, was never completed.
— Larry Duffy, 2008
Select Bibliography
Many of the original manuscripts of the short stories have
been lost (see ‘Les “Manuscrits perdus” d’Emile Zola’ in Les
Cahiers naturalistes, no. 39, 1970, pp. 84-6). Printed texts of
the stories, either in their various versions in periodicals or
in volume form are available in the Bibliothéque Nationale in
Paris and, in part, in the British Library in London.
Three of the main twentieth-century editions of the short
stories are: Contes et nouvelles, ed. Maurice le Blond 2 vols.
(Paris: Bernouard, 1928); Contes et nouvelles, ed. Henri
Mitterand, vol. 9 of CEuvres completes (Paris: Cercle du Livre
136

EXTRA MATERIAL
Précieux, 1970); Emile Zola, Contes et nouvelles, ed. Roger
Ripoll (Paris: Gallimard, Bibliothéque de la Pléiade, 1976).
Biographies:
Brown, Frederick, Zola. A Life (London: Macmillan, 1995)
Hemmings, EW.]J., Emile Zola (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1965)
Mitterand, Henri, Zola, 3 vols. (Paris: Fayard, 1999-2002)
Richardson, Joanna, Zola (London: Weidenfeld & Nicolson,
1978)
Wilson, Angus, Emile Zola: An Introductory Study of His
Novels (London: Secker and Warburg, 1952)
Additional Recommended Reading:
Baguley, David, “Maupassant avant la lettre? A study of a Zola
short story, ‘Les Coquillages de M. Chabre’”’, Nottingham
French Studies, 6 (October 1967), pp. 77-86
Nelson, Brian, ed., The Cambridge Companion to Zola
(Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2007)
Ricatte, Robert, ‘Zola conteur’, Europe (April-May 1968), pp.
209-17
Triomphe, Jean, ‘Zola collaborateur du ‘Messager d’Europe”’,
Revue de Littérature Comparee, 17, no. 4 (1937), pp. 754-65
On the Web:
abu.cnam.fr/BIB/auteurs/zolae.htm|
gallica. bnf.fr/classique
www.chass.utoronto.ca/french/sable/collections/zola/
137

ALMA CLASSICS
ALMA CLASSICS aims to publish mainstream and lesser-known European
classics in an innovative and striking way, while employing the highest
editorial and production standards. By way of a unique approach
the range offers much more, both visually and textually, than readers
have come to expect from contemporary classics publishing.
CATES ier SseUBLISHEDSBY ALMASCEASSIES
286 Stefan Zweig, A Game of Chess and Other Stories
287 Antal Szerb, Journey by Moonlight
288 Rudyard Kipling, The Jungle Books
289 Anna Sewell, Black Beauty
290 Louisa May Alcott, Little Women
291 Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, Night Flight
UY! Ivan Turgeney, A Nest of the Gentry
293 Cecile Aubry, Belle and Sébastien: The Child of the Mountains
294 Saki, Gabriel-Ernest and Other Stories
295 E. Nesbit, The Railway Children
296 Susan Coolidge, What Katy Did
297; William Shakespeare, Sonnets
298 Oscar Wilde, The Canterville Ghost and Other Stories
299 Arthur Conan Doyle, The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes
300 Charles Dickens, A Christmas Carol and Other Christmas Stories
301 Jerome K. Jerome, After-Supper Ghost Stories
302 Thomas More, Utopia
303 H.G. Wells, The Time Machine
304 Nikolai Gogol, Dead Souls
305 H.G. Wells, The Invisible Man
306 Thomas Hardy, Far from the Madding Crowd
307 Ivan Turgenev, On the Eve
308 Frances Hodgson Burnett, Little Lord Fauntleroy
309 E. Nesbit, Five Children and It
310 Rudyard Kipling, Just So Stories
uli! Kenneth Grahame, The Wind in the Willows
12, L.M. Montgomery, Anne of Green Gables
318 Eleanor H. Porter, Pollyanna
314 Fyodor Dostoevsky, Devils
3S) John Buchan, The Thirty-Nine Steps
316 H.G. Wells, The War of the Worlds
Sly Dante Alighieri, Paradise
www.almaclassics.com

55574 42 76
sLiHberratrfioersd shire
5572473

__ In contrast with the epic scope
of the Rougon-Macquart novels, Zola’s
short stories are concerned with the everyday
aspects of human existence and the interests of
ordinary people. :
From the cruel irony of ‘Captain Burle’ to the
Rabelaisian exuberance of ‘Coquevilleo n the
Spree’, these stories display the broad range of
Zola’s imagination, using a variety of tones, from
the quietly cynical to the compassionate, from
__ the playful to the tragic.
Vincent Van Gogh
TRANSLATED BY DOUGLAS PARMEE.-
. (1840-1 902) ii s the forans
repre costs of the Naturalist school, and is best
remembered for Thérése Raquin and his twenty-novel
cycle, The Rougon-Macquarts.
HAAN
-764-062
WiiK P
THE DREAMS:
REMRIL E ZOpLaA rte=~
I9S7B8N- 1-84749-696-6