OXFORD WORLD'S CLASSICS
Emile Zola
^
The Attack on the Mill
AND OTHER STORIES

Boston Public Library
MA
Boston, 02116

OXFORD WORLD'S CLASSICS
THE ATTACK ON THE MILL
AND OTHER STORIES
Emile Zola was born in Paris in 1840, the son of a Venetian
engineer and his French wife. He grew up in Aix-en-Provence
wherehemadefriendswithPaulCezanne.Afteranundistinguished
schoolcareerandabriefperiodofdirepovertyinParis,Zolajoined
the newly founded publishing firm ofHachette which he left in
1866 to live by his pen. He had already published a novel and his
first collection ofshort stories. Other novels and stories followed
until in 1871 Zola published the first volume of his Rougon-
Macquartseries with the sub-title Histoire naturelleetsocialed'une
famillesousleSecondEmpire, in which he sets out to illustrate the
influence ofheredity and environment on a wide range ofcharac-
ters and milieux. It was, however, not until 1877 that his novel
L'Assommoir,astudyofalcoholismin theworkingclasses, brought
him wealth and fame. The last of the Rougon-Macquart series
appearedin 1893andhissubsequentwritingwasfarlesssuccessful,
although he achieved fame of a different sort in his vigorous
and influential intervention in the Dreyfus case. His marriage in
1870hadremainedchildlessbuthisextremelyhappyliaison witha
younglaundressinlaterlifegavehimasonandadaughter.Hedied
in 1902.
Douglas Parmee studied at Trinity College, Cambridge, the
University ofBonn, and the Sorbonne. He later served in RAF
IntelligencebeforereturningtoteachinCambridge,wherehewasa
FellowandDirectorofStudiesatQueens'College. Henowlivesin
Adelaide,SouthAustralia.HehaswrittenwidelyonFrenchStudies
andisaprize-winningtranslatorfromFrench,German,andItalian.
He has translated Flaubert'sA SentimentalEducation and Laclos'
LesLiaisonsDangereusesforOxfordWorld'sClassics.

OXFORD WORLD'S CLASSICS
ForoveriooyearsOxfordWorld'sClassicshavebrought
readersclosertotheworld'sgreatliterature. Nowwithoverjoo
—
titles -fromthe4,000-year-oldmy—thsofMesopotamiatothe
twentiethcentury'sgreatestnovels theseriesmakesavailable
lesser-knownaswellascelebratedwriting.
Thepocket-sizedhardbacksoftheearlyyearscontained
introductionsby Virginia Woolf T.S. Eliot, GrahamGreene,
andotherliteraryfigureswhichenrichedtheexperienceofreading.
Todaytheseriesisrecognizedforitsfinescholarshipand
reliabilityintextsthatspanworldliterature,dramaandpoetry,
religion,philosophyandpolitics. Eacheditionincludesperceptive
commentaryandessentialbackgroundinformationtomeetthe
changingneedsofreaders.

OXFORD WORLD'S CLASSICS
EMILE ZOLA
Mill
The Attack on the
and Other Stories
Translatedwithan IntroductionandNotesby
DOUGLAS PARMF.F.
OXTORD
VNIVERSITY PRESS

OXFORD
UNIVERSITYPRESS
GreatClarendonStreet,Oxford0X26dp
OxfordUniversityPressisadepartmentoftheUniversityofOxford.
ItfurtherstheUniversity'sobjectiveofexcellenceinresearch,scholarship,
andeducationbypublishingworldwidein
Oxford NewYork
Athens Auckland Bangkok BogotaBuenosAiresCapeTown
Chcnnai DaresSalaam Delhi Florence HongKong Istanbul Karachi
Kolkata KualaLumpur Madrid Melbourne MexicoCity Mumbai Nairobi
ParisSaoPaulo Shanghai SingaporeTaipei Tokyo Toronto Warsaw
withassociatedcompaniesin Berlin Ibadan
OxfordisaregisteredtrademarkofOxfordUniversityPress
intheUKandincertainothercountries
PublishedintheUnitedStates
byOxfordUniversityPressInc.,NewYork
Translation,Introduction,Notes,andeditorialmatter
< DouglasParmeel984
Themoralrightsoftheauthorhavebeenasserted
DatabaserightOxfordUniversityPress(maker)
Firstpublished1984asaWorld'sClassicspaperback
ReissuedasanOxfordWorld'sClassicspaperback1999
Allrightsreserved.Nopartofthispublicationmaybereproduced,
storedinaretrievalsystem,ortransmitted,inanyformorbyammeans,
withoutthepriorpermissioninwritingofOxfordUnivcrsinPress,
orasexpresslypermittedbylaw,orundertermsagreedwiththeappropriate
reprographicsrightsorganizations.Knquiriesconcerningreproduction
outsidethescopeoftheaboveshouldbesenttotheRightsDepartment,
OxfordUniversityPress,attheaddressabove
Youmustnotcirculatethisbookinanyotherbindingorcover
andyoumustimposethissameconditiononanyacquirer
BritishLibraryCataloguinginPublicationData
Dataavailable
LibraryofCongress(CataloginginPublicationData
Zola,T.mile,1840-1902.
Theattackonthemillandotherstories.
(Oxfordworld'sclassics)
1.Zola,Kmilc.1840-1902—Translations,English.
I.Parmcc,Douglas. II. Title.
PQ2493.P36 1984 84.V.8 84-7890
ISBN0-19-283661-7
3 5 79 108 64 2
PrintedinGreatBritainby
Cox&WymanLtd.
Reading,Berkshire

CONTENTS
Introduction vii
Noteonthe Texts xxi
SelectBibliography xxii
A ChronologyofEntileZola xxiii
TheGirlWhoLovesMe
1
Rentafoil 13
DeathbyAdvertising 21
Storyofa Madman 25
BigMichu 29
TheAttackontheMill 35
CaptainBurle 66
TheWayPeopleDie 98
CoquevilleontheSpree 130
AFlashinthePan
158
DeadMenTellNoTales
187
ShellfishforMonsieurChabrc 214
AbsenceMakestheHeartGrowFonder 246
Priestsand Sinners 281
FairExchange 310
TheHauntedHouse 344
ExplanatoryNotes 355

INTRODUCTION
THE relative or sometimes complete unavailability of texts has
been themajorfactorindeprivingnon-FrenchadmirersofZola's
novels of the rewarding and exciting literary experience of
reading his tales and short stories. The present volume is unique
in providing a conspectus ofthese works, ranging from his first
collection, Contes a Ninon, published in 1864, to his last story,
'The Haunted House' (Angeline), which appeared more than
thirty years later. The stories provide many pleasures ofrecogni-
tion: readers will find a variety oftheme, a dramatic power, a
minuteobservationofphysicaldetail, thenarrativeinvention, the
social scope, which bring a whole epoch of French life into
vigorous relief, and with which his novels have made them
familiar. There are also, however, stimulating differences: they
will be spared the irritation they may have felt at the novelist's
occasional jejune determinism and his tendency to over-play
(thoughnot, thankGod, inhis bestnovels) theimportanceofso-
called laws ofheredity and environment. They will meet in the
short stories no attempt to apply his half-baked and totally
misplacedtheoriesasto thepossibilityofturning thenovel intoa
sort ofexperimental research laboratory to observe and deduce
the laws ofhuman behaviour. They will even find the novelist's
dramatic sense enhanced by the enforced concision ofthe short
story form. And they will discover an accuracy ofdetails that
owes moretoexperienceand intuition than to documentation, as
the more anecdotal nature of the stories gives them an added
liveliness.
But above all, from the very first tale (which is, significantly,
in thefirst-personnarrative), readers will becomeawareofanew
dimension, a noticeable difference in tone, which may best be
described as a sort ofwry playfulness, used variously to mitigate
or heighten an underlying seriousness. This different tone covers
a wide range. It takes the form, for instance, of broad, even
farcic — al humour, in 'Coqucvillc on the Spree' (La Fete <i Coqut-
uille) a particularlyinterestingexample, sinceCoqueville, as the
epitome ofthe closed society, isolated in space and time, could
have lent itselfexcellently to a painstaking study ofthe influence

viii Introduction
of heredity and environment, whereas Zola chooses to treat
the village and its inhabitants largely as a huge joke. Mainly,
however, this playfulness finds expression in a wide range of
irony: the savage irony of'The Attack on the Mill' (L'Attaquedu
moulin); the cruellest irony of all, with 'Captain Burle' (Le
Capitaine Burle), perhaps the only story where the toneis almost
unrelievedly tragic; and, more frequently, a gentler irony, as in
the story of Monsieur Chabre (Les CoquiWages de Monsieur
Chabre), or in 'The Girl Who Loves Me' (Celle qui m'aime). The
irony is sometimes blatant: sections of'Priests and Sinners' offer
good examples ofthis; at other times far subtler, as in 'Absence
Makes the Heart Grow Fonder' {JacquesDamour), which ends on
at least two different levels. Whatever form it takes, the irony is
rarely unadulterated, and here again, I think, readers ofZola's
short stories will have a further advantage over someone who
knows only his novels, where irony is generally in rather short
supply, andoftenobtrusivewhen itdoesappear. Theeponymous
anti-hero Burle, for example, excites compassion at the same
timeasheevokesanironicalsmileofcontempt, andthesamecan
be said ofJacques Damour. Indeed pity, aroused, be it noted,
obliquelyinaccordancewithZola's tenetofrealisticimpartiality,
by ostensibly objective depiction rather than direct appeal to
the reader's emotions, is a predominant element in many of
these stories, and this skilful blending ofcontrasting suggestions
arouses a similarly ambiguous reaction in the reader, a reac-
tionmorecomplexthanthatprovokedbymostofhisnovels, and
which for many readers will more than adequately compensate
for the lack ofthe epic quality ofthe better novels, well-nigh im-
—
possibleto produce in a shortstory although thespreeat Coque-
villeis abingeofepicproportions, albeiton a mock-heroicscale.
Quite apart from the differences inherent in the genres, there
is a deeper underlying distinction to be drawn between the
novels and the short stories. For Zola the novelist, ambition and
fame are the spur and the epic tone clearly forms part of the
grand manner which will enable him to challenge a giant such as
Balzac; but the charm ofthe short stories springs from the more
urgent spur of economic necessity, the need to survive. The
majorityofthesestories, infact, formanimportantpartofZola's
considerable and sometimes feverish production as ajournalist,
most ofwhich falls between 1864 and 1880.

—
Introduction ix
In 1865, whenhelefthisjobasheadofthepublicitydepartment
ofthe newly formed publishing firm ofHachette which he had
joinedtwoyearsbefore, Zolahadtosupporthis motheraswellas
himself, forhis fatherhaddied when Emile was only seven years
old; and incidentally, it should be mentioned that being the only
son ofawidow provedto havecompensations: hewas
—
exempted
from military service and had the additional bonus his war
stories make it plain that he must have considered this a bonus
that he escaped the servitudes and hardships and dangers of
soldiering during the Franco-Prussian war. It is interesting to
reflect that his numerous writings on the subject of war were
basedonhearsayandimagination, notonexperience, which may
explainwhyhefails torealize, in'TheAttackontheMill', thatin
modern warfare, shells had replaced cannon-balls . . .
Zola's economic straits, already bad enough, were shortly to
becomeevenworsewhen, verysoon, afurthermouth was added
tothetwohehadtofeed: thatofhismistressGabrielle-Alexandrine
Meley, whom he was to marry in 1870. Something had to be
done; ithadtobedonequickly; butittakesalong time, weeksor
months, even for someone ofZola's methodical and industrious
routine, to write a novel. It can take even longer to reap any
considerablebenefitfromroyalties, evenif, withluck, youhavethe
good fortunetohaveyournovelacceptedforpublicationinserial
form, a method which Zolawas ableto adoptin laterlife. But as
an unknown writer, there was only one possibility:journalism.
Articles and short stories can be dashed offin a few days or even
hours and, with luck and a reliable editor, you'll be paid on the
nail: the problem ofcash flow is solved; you can eat and drink.
Zola'sjournalisticoutputneverconsistedsolelyofshortstories;
throughout his career as ajournalist, a large part ofhis time and
energy was devoted to criticism and reviews, not onlyofliterary
and dramatic works but also of painting, as we are reminded
when reading 'Fair Exchange' (Madame Sourdis); and Zola, like
young Ferdinand Sourdis, was a modernist, not surprisingly
sincehewasaschoolmateofPaulCezannewhomhecontinuedto
frequent for many years. One ofhis earliest public controversies
arose from his support of the unfashionable and 'iconoclastic'
painter, £douard Manet
Zolaistoday, however, bestknownasajournalist forhisshort
stories and tales, some barely a couple ofpages long, others of

x Introduction
thirty pages ormore, ofwhichhewrote morethaneightyovera
period ofmore than thirty years, although ofthis number only
'The Haunted House' was written after 1880. The reason for the
cessationofhis activityafterthis datewas simple: theresounding
successofhis proletariannovel L'Assommoirin 1877 broughthim
fameovernightandproportionatewealthshortlyafterwards. The
spur offinancial necessity had gone; the contract which he had
securedin 1875throughthegoodofficesofthefriendlyTurgenev
to provide articles and stories to the Russian periodical Vestnik
Evropy (European Messenger) was to expire in 1880. The years of
grinding poverty which Zola had experienced in the mid-sixties
were now but a memory; they had, however, been useful in
providing personal knowledgeofa wayoflifewhichappearedin
both his novels and his short stories. Henceforth his novels were
to bring him enduring fame ofa magnitude that he could never
haveexpectedas acriticorashort story writer. Allthesame, asa
journalist, Zola obviously learned many ofhis skills during this
period and it could be argued that he might even have donewell
to carry some of them over more fully into his novels. If
journalism has disadvantages, it can also bring benefits.
The potential disadvantages are obvious. Paid by the word or
by thepage, ajournalist caneasilysacrificequalityto quantity. A
very stern critic might, I fancy, find some longueurs in parts of
Zola's short stories; but we should not forget that a more
leisurely age than ours would be happy to linger over charming
descriptions ofGuerande and Piriac (in 'Shellfish for Monsieur
Chabre') or ofL'Estaque, in 'A Flash in the Pan' (Nais Micoulin),
all the more willingly if such descriptions have the charm of
exoticism as well, since many ofthese short stories were written
for Russian readers. Furthermore, as a realist, Zola is concerned
to create as complete an atmospheric background as possible.
And the occasional lengthy description, far from being purely
decorative, servesto prolongoursuspenseandeven, asina good
detective story (I think again of'A Flash in the Pan'), the trivial,
apparently unnecessary detail can provide a clue to the dramatic
denouement.
Another danger facing thejournalist is that topicality is often
expected to be one of his ingredients: especially in his earlier
works, Zola takes his starting point from a contemporary event
or a matter of current interest. Here again, Zola manages to

Introduction xi
survive relatively unscathed, and in any case, his output was
sufficiently considerable to enable a selection to be made which
avoids ephemerae unlikely to interest a modern reader. In much
of his later work, Zola avoids any such danger by deliberately
choosingatopicofgeneralimport(asin'PriestsandSinners') and
inventing a dramatic framework to illustrate his point.
But the benefits ofjournalism are so considerable, at least for
someone ofZola's temperament, as to outweigh the disadvan-
tages. Writingquickly, you will findyourselfwritingbrisklyand
crisply; you will seek to be lively. Writing for different editors
and different reading publics gives you practice in flexibility:
Parisianreaders havedifferentattitudes fromthoseoftheprovin-
—
cials, whileRussianreaders formostofthestorieshe — recollected
were written under contract to a Russian periodical require a
good deal of background information, a requirement which
admirably suits Zola's technique; and they have their special
expectations and preconceptions with regard to—French society:
could this perhaps explain some — ofthe flippancy 'French sauci-
ness' is perhaps the better word of'Coqueville on the Spree'?
But, aboveall, people will not, I suggest, read shortstories tobe
preachedatorindoctrinated, eveniftheyarenotaversetohaving
their prejudices flattered: so didacticism, that scourge ofZola's
criticism and his later novels, has no place in his short stories,
although he has his own methods — ofinferring a moral. In fact,
the best way ofentertaining males and more females than they
—
may perhaps care to admit is by the slightly scabrous or the
quasi-erotically suggestive. However, from what we know of
Zola, such a tone was not one which represented his own
inclinations and here again this sort ofconstraint can only have
furthered his development as an artist: he has to be careful to
avoid too forthright an expression of strongly held personal
views; artistry is more important than outspoken sincerity. It is,
ofcourse, an attitude which squares very well with the realist's
avowedaimofdepictingpeopleandsocietyintheireverydaylife,
however dull and even hateful, people as they are and not as we
would have them be. Such suppression of personal feelings is
bound to have its limits, ofcourse: particularly as a young man,
Zolawasmuch given tosentimentality whichcansometimessink
to mawkishness and he had a strong melodramatic tendency
which he never thrrw off. Vhc sentimentality diminished with

xii Introduction
ageandself-disciplinebutheneverseemedabletoacceptHardy's
dictum that whilenothing istoo strange to havehappened, there
is a good deal that is too strange to be believed. Once again, we
have been saved by the quantity of Zola's output: with over
eightystories to choose from, itiseasy toweedoutthe mawkish
or over-melodramatic, which might, indeed, have appealed to a
Victorian reader but would now be found unacceptable.
Zola's short story writing falls into two easily distinguishable
periods, with 1875 as the dividing line, when he was, in fact, at
thirty-five, net mezzo del cammin, though his life was to be
forcibly abridged. The first period contains largely very short
pieces, somelittle morethana coupleofpageslong; the majority
are mere sketches illustrating Parisian life (one ofthe collections
ofthis typicallyjournalistic production, first published in 1866,
was called Esquisses Parisiennes) . These sketches were a very
prevalent genre at the time, a chronicle, and its author, the
chroniqueur, writes ofhis personal impressions, usually basing his
story on afaitdivers, an anecdote, real or imagined, a genuineor
fictitiouspersonal memory;hestrollsthroughParisnotingthings
that strike his fancy or people who seem perhaps odd or even
'typically Parisian'; topicson whichhe can talk out loud, person-
ally, inviting the reader's complicity. Occasionally, the tale will
invite the expression of a hope or a non-censorious moral,
although we should beware ofaccepting any such expression of
emotion orjudgement at its face value. It is pleasant chat and
much ofit, where Zola's contribution to the genre is concerned,
is now read only by critics in search ofinfluences or anxious to
find in it the seeds of his future novels. These chroniques were
largely published in the many newspapers and magazines which
proliferated in Paris in thedeclining years ofthe Second Empire;
andtheytendtohaveasamenessoftone, asortofslicknesswhich
quickly palls. Allthesame, somehavea sufficientlystrongironic
edge and an observation of permanent human foibles accurate
enough to amusea modern reader. Fivehavebeen includedhere,
out ofa total ofover fifty.
The second period ofZola's activity as a short story writer is
very different; no longer sketches, the stories all have a plot and
characters. Althoughstillwritingforaperiodical, heisrelievedof
the need to crave the suffrage ofthe French reading public and
can avoid any direct editorial pressure; the obligation to provide

—
Introduction xiii
slick entertainment and instant dramatization is lifted. On his
much broader canvas ofmore than ten thousand words, he can
exercise his realistic technique ofdetailed observation, he is free
to develop situations in accordance with views that from other
evidence we know to be closer to his heart but which he has
learned to express with artistic discretion. All except one ofthe
remaining translations ofthe presentselectionaretaken from this
collaboration: ten storiesin all, exactly halfofZola's total output
ofshort stories for the Russian periodical (he also wrote more
than forty otherpieces, articles on literaryand othertopics). One
or two ofthe stories have retained the impressionistic stamp of
his earlier journalism, not surprisingly since he occasionally
borrowedfromearliersketchestoputhisRussianpiecestogether;
and one or two ofthem are too essentially topical for inclusion
here, for instance, a series ofshort sketches recounting some of
the electioneering and voting in the important French general
election of 1878, which are of greater interest for the historian
than for the general reader.
Wehavementionedtheimportanceofdramaintheshortstory
toofferthereaderanunexpectedtwist, asurprisingturnofevents
orasuddenstrikingrevelationofcharacter. Zolawell understood
the desirability ofthis technique and in many ofthese stories he
keepsthereaderontenterhooks. Whatexactlyisgoingtobecome
ofthesexuallyobsessedCaptai
—
n Burle?Who isgoingtobeshot
or is anyone going to be shot in 'The Attack on the Mill'? In
'Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder', what possible solution
can be found forJacques Damour's agonizing problem? Is that
ratherunpleasantyoung FredericMorand, soperfectlyadaptedto
his rich middle-class background, none the less riding for a
serious, ifnotfatal, fall?Theseareafewofthemajordramaswhich
combine with interlocking minor dramas to provide complex
suspense for the reader. But it would be underestimating Zola's
inventive narrative talent to assume that he places exclusive
relianceon whatare, afterall, fairlyordinary basicskillswhich, if
indulged in to excess, can turn into mannered devices. Zola has
other strings to his bow and in all his full-length stones the
questions are more subtly posed: it is not so much what is going
to happen, as when and how is what we can expect to happen
actually ,^oin^ to happen. Far less common is rhe question why
somethinghappens. Zola rarelv probes motives nor. indeed, does

—
xiv Introduction
hegenerallyneedtodoso, forthemainspringsofmostcharacters'
behaviour are plain, although not necessarily simple. All the
same, in one or two ofthese stories, there is greater ambiguity:
Jacques Damour's final resolution, in 'Absence Makes the Heart
Grow Fonder', is not explained. When Zola does choose thus to
respect the uncertainty ofhuman motive, his realistic technique
stands him in good stead, relying as it does on the external
recording of behaviour rather than on omniscient authorial
probing: here actions or even gestures speak louder than words
and the reader can ponder the motives at leisure.
But there is no doubt that the question of how something
happens is most important for Zola and is worth examining in
somegreaterdetail. 'Shellfish forMonsieurChabre' isasgoodan
exampleasany. Now, itis surelynotnecessarytobe particularly
sophisticated or cynical to realize very early in the story that
Monsieur Chabre's balding head is going to be adorned with
horns and we know quite well who is going to put them there.
Themainsuspensethuscentresonthequestionofhow, andthisis
whereZola shows his artistry. We see in great detail the physical
backgroundandcontributoryeventswhichfosterthegrowthofa
relationship between a shy young man, becoming progressively
and charmingly less shy, and a respectable and spirited young
wife, becoming progressively —less respectable; a relationship
whichnotonlyunitestwobodies bothequallybeautiful bodies
but reveals a marriage ofminds which share the same feeling for
nature and a similar sense ofbeauty as well as the same sense of
fun, the same interest in life's oddities. All these aspects ofthe
links between the two young people are observed with careful
and selective realistic detail, neverover-explicit: the reader is not
taken into the exact workings ofthe protagonists' minds or the
minute — development oftheir feelings but is left to surmise and
deduce and to be amused. Woven into the tale are Zola's own
holiday impressions of a specific district of France which is
realistically portrayed in considerable detail for the foreign
—
Russian
—
reader, nodoubtfascinated asEnglishreadersmaywell
also be by a glimpse into an excitingly beautiful landscape or a
charminglypicturesqueold town. Moreimportantly, the impact
of such joint impressions on the young couple in creating a
stimulating bond between them is central to the plot; it seems
clear that here is no description for the sake ofdescription and

Introduction xv
eventhelongdrawnout accountofthe shrimpingexpedition has
an important functional role: it increases our suspense as well as
suddenly revealing a breakthrough in the couple's relationship.
The net result is that what could have been a banal and sordid
adultery, a quick seaside 'petticoatsup and trousersdown' on the
beach, becomes a lyrical celebration of the beauty of natural
forces set in a convincing and fascinating specific French back-
ground, in a specific French milieu. Even the chiefvictim is not
entirely a caricatural black-and-white character. Paunchy and
absurd though he is, Monsieur — Chabre is a living person and not
really a bad sort of fellow he's mannerly and considerate
towardshis wife;and, intheend, Zolaletshimcometonoharm.
He'snoblyeatenhisloathsomeshellfishandthereaderisdelighted
when he gets his rewardin the shape ofa bouncing son and heir;
it's a sortofnineteenth-century form ofin vitro fertilization. And
quite apart from the sexual problem, we may feel that, through
his truth to life, Zola has, as it were incidentally, given us an
intriguing and plausible glimpse into a perennial mystery: how
can rich businessmen, so shrewd and expert in their particular
sphere, prove so ineffectual and stupid outside these activities?
I havespenttimeon 'Shellfish forMonsieurChabre' becauseit
isanexcellentexampleofZola'snarrativetechnique, albeitoneof
many, whereby he succeeds in turning a relatively predictable
what into a far more uncertain how. Beyond simple comedy or
drama, we are taken into more enriching regions of the mind
while at the same time our attention is constantly held by the
convincing and accurate depiction ofmany different milieux. By
the manner of their telling, we are persuaded to overlook the
familiarity or even banality ofthe events being told; the realist
Zolahas, strangely, achievedasortofclassicism, theclassicismof
'what oft was said but ne'er so well expressed'.
Zola's stories extend through a very wide range of French
society, almost as wide as his novels, though the typical nouveau
riche parvenu ofthe period is not well represented; Durandeau in
Rcntafoil' (Les Repoussoirs) is the nearest approach to the cratty
Second Empire speculator lavishly depicted in the novels. Apart
from this, we see specimens from the aristocracy down to the
peasantry and proletariat: indeed, in two of the stories here
reproduced, 'The Way People Die' (Comment on mcurt) and
Priests and Sinners', there is a deliberate juxtaposition of the

xvi Introduction
attitudes ofdifferent classes, although in the second ofthese, the
emphasis is placed more on a particular typeofpriest ratherthan
on the class ofsociety to which he was ministering. Ifrealism is
deemed to depend exclusively on observation, there must be
somedifficultyinconsideringsuchworksasrealistic: Zolahadno
direct or personal experience of most of the milieux he was
depicting, the aristocracy, the upper- and lower-middle classes,
the proletariat or the peasantry. His own frequentations were
largely ofjournalists, ofliterary and artistic Parisian bohemians.
However, inhis years ofpoverty in theearly and mid-sixties, he
would certainly have rubbed shoulders with the working and
poorer artisan classes and he would have seen something of
provinciallifeandpeasantryinhisboyhoodin Provence. Thelife
of the aristocracy and the upper-middle classes must have
remained a closed book to him, to be learnt about from other
writers' works or from otherpeople's conversation. Critics have
taken Zola to task over this. However, Zola had very sensitive
antennaeandalivelyimagination;hewastoneedlessthanaweek
'in the field' in Beauce when gathering material for his superb
peasantnovel La Terreand sinceboth Balzac and Proust, in their
different ways, seem to have overcome similar shortcomings in
their novels, it would be prudent to let readers judge for
themselves as to the authenticity ofZola's portrayal ofclasses of
which he had limited direct knowledge.
From our knowledge of Zola's strong feelings about social
injustice, wemighthaveexpectedthearistocracytohavesuffered
harshly at his hands; in fact, they do not come off too badly.
True, theyappearasheartless, hypocriticalandsexuallypromiscu-
ous but they are shown as possessing good manners, decorum
and a certain panache, a conventional picture, of course, but
Zola's inventionofincident, thepetitfaitvraiofStendhal, andthe
accurate background detail make perfectly plausible and interest-
ing stories out ofthis unoriginal material. The middle classes at
all levels had been the butt ofmost ofthe important poets and
novelists ofthe nineteenth century in France and Zola similarly
belabours them for their materialistic greed, their snobbery and,
particularly the women, fortheirbigotry; again, itisthe manner
rather than the matter that is original. Predictably, the lower-
middle classes, harder pressed by economic circumstances, are
treated more sympathetically, although Monsieur Rousseau, the

Introduction xvii
stationer in the third section ofThe Way People Die', however
sincerely he may mourn his wife, still has a nagging grievance
againsther: what a pityshehadto dieon aday whichforced him
to close the shop! It is far easier to arouse compassion for the
wretched working classesand Zoladoes so;nonetheless, his code
ofimpartiality leads him to show a few warts: the working-class
inhabitants ofthe tenement block in the fourth section of'Priests
and Sinners' are notably uncharitable in theirjudgements as well
as drunk and disorderly in their communal lives. On the whole,
the peasantry come out best; they have a simple fatalistic dignity
springing from their close contact with natural forces; but this
doesnotpreventZolafromdrawingadevastatingpictureoftheir
appalling superstitiousness in the first section of 'Priests and
Sinners'.
In a word, Zola's view ofmankind is unflattering but it must
besaidthatiftherearefewwhollyadmirablecharacters, thereare
also not many really despicable ones. Indeed, it could be argued
that his characterization in his short stories, because of his
frequenthumorousorironictouches, is moreroundedthaninhis
novels; and the narrower canvas still gives him room to etch in
someconvincing, oftenslylyfunnyvignettesofminorcharacters.
As we might expect, one ofthe major characters ofhis short
stories is the carefully drawn environment. Zola invites the
readers' close attention to the influence of social and other
circumstantialconditioningonourbehaviour; andthiscondition-
ingnotonlyhelpstoexplainourcomplexities, italsoservesasan
extenuating circumstance. In 'A Flash in the Pan' (NaisMicoulin),
for instance, Nais' father is a wife-beater, a harsh father who
knocks his daughter about, and a would-be murderer; yet this
sort of uncouth savagery is shown as rooted in the desperate
struggle to survive in a pitiless drought-ridden region, as well as
in the still living tradition ofa Latin paterfamilias whose pride in
family honour is the mainstay of his existence. Similarly, the
stupid Father Pintoux in the first part of'Priests and Sinners' is as
much a victim ofcircumstance as his pathetically superstitious
flockofBreton peasantry; hislifeisalmostashardastheirsandhis
belief in hell fire as strong; and if the Monsignor of the fifth
section ofthe same group is ruthlessly ambitious, it is his early
military training which is partly to blame for his insensitivity.
Zola obviously considers professional military training as one of

xviii Introduction
the most pernicious environments. It results in a besetting sin
which incurs his ultimate condemnation of any human being:
lack ofimagination. No amount ofcourage or loyalty can make
up for this failure: the jaunty, gallant French officer in The
Attack on the Mill' as well as the dour, pathetic, doggedly
courageous and strictly honourable Major Laguitte in 'Captain
Burle' are both ultimately condemned, in so far as Zola allows
anyone to be condemned, as blinkered automata.
A further reason for Zola's distaste for the military is that,
through their association with war, which he views as a deplor-
able but inevitable human infirmity, they are closely associated
with death. Zola had a streak ofmorbidity which finds explicit
expression in 'Dead Men Tell No Tales' {La Mort d'Olivier
Becaille), and which no doubt will find an echo with many a
reader. We know from other sources not only ofhis fear, which
provedto beprophetic, ofmeeting an untimelydeathbutalsoof
being buried alive; and the story plainly owes much ofits initial
impact to this autobiographical element. However, as always,
Zola constructs a plot and a situation which go far beyond any
personal feelings. Fear ofdeath and ofburial alive turn out to be
themostsuperficial, ifperhapsthemostdramatic, ofthelevelsat
which the story works; the real subjects are the fragility ofthe
marriagevows, the pressureofeconomicnecessity, theportrayal
ofwomen as creatures possessing habits and customs ratherthan
morals, and finally, a favourite theme in Zola's short stories, the
justification of sexual desire, an interesting contrast to the
depressingviewofsexualityrevealedinthenovelsoftheRougon-
Macquart cycle; it seems almost as if in this portrayal of the
successful fulfilment of young love, a vein of sentimentality
persists from the early Contes a Ninon which was ruthlessly
excised from thelaternovels. Let it be noted, by the way, thatif
women are sternly treated at times, the men have nothing to
crow about: the motives of men's actions are usually social
advancement or material gain, with love as a secondary
commodity.
In later life, Zola became a very active political figure in his
support for Dreyfus; but politics and politicians are sceptically
viewed in his stories. The political Monsignor of 'Priests and
Sinners'isarabidlyreactionaryself-seekerwhile, attheotherend
ofthespectrum, theleft-wingBerruof'AbsenceMakestheHeart

Introduction xix
Grow Fonder' is a rascally rabble-rousing firebrand who takes
goodcareofhis ownskin. BigMichu'sfather, in 'BigMichu' (Le
grandMichu), is mentioned asa braveand honest 1848Republican;
butJacquesDamour, in 'AbsenceMakestheHeartGrowFonder',
also brave and honest, is shown as a credulous simpleton whose
Communard activity is closely linked to the few francs a day
which he receives as a National Guardsman. Politics are in fact
largely the preserve ofa corrupt aristocracy and a conservative
andambitious upper-middleclass andZolashowsusnoevidence
to suggest that any ofthe lower-class aspirants to political power
arelikelytobe very different. In a word, politicians are members
ofthe human race, ofwhich someone wrote:
I wish I liked the human race,
I wish I liked its silly face,
And when I'm introduced to one
I wish I thought: Whatjolly fun!
Such indeed, here expressed in humorous Anglo-Saxon
terms, which need not exclude a hidden anguish, is a sentiment
that can be seen to run through Zola's short stories. It is a cry
from the heart of many French writers, from Moliere and La
Rochefoucauld, Chamfort and Voltaire, Flaubert and Celine. In
Zola, it is no isolated disenchantment, for his picture is very
complete. He takes us into aristocratic bedrooms and dining-
rooms, into drawing-rooms in Paris and in the provinces, into
little shops and wretched garrets, into a garrison town, seaside
resorts, the Faubourg Saint-Germain and Menilmontant, a
Lorraine village and an assortment ofcemeteries. He peoples his
accurate backgrounds with convincing characters: mcn-about-
town, middle-class money-makers, petty bourgeois, soldiers,
fishermen, peasants, bricklayers, shopkeepers, artisans and other
manual workers, not forgetting the odd kept woman; conserva-
tive reactionaries as well as uneasy liberals and opportunistic
republicans; andtheyareall seenin action, often dramaticallyand
frequently ironically. We see a well-composed and authoritative
fresco, of a wide range in full colour, of French society in the
second halfofthe nin
—
eteenth century. But this isnotjusta period
piece: Zola's themes love, young and fierce or tired and disil-
lusioned, maternal, paternal, filial, married or adulterous; death,
natural or violent, money (or lack ofit); religion (or lack ofit);

xx Introduction
—
work (or lack ofit) arealways with us and to many ofthem he
gives a strikingly modern, even prophetic, slant. His general
themeis, afterall, variousformsofrecognizablymodernconflict:
the dilemma ofthe tormented Abbe de Villeneuve is similar to
thatoftheworker-priest; fundamentalistreligious fanatics, inthe
line of poor Father Pintoux, are today, in many parts of the
world, acommonplace; wecanallthinkofgiftedmendestroying
themselves through drink and dissipation; the lures of high-
pressuresalesmanship are familiar bogies; and many peoplehave
an uneasy suspicion that there may still exist those who hope to
beabletocry, liketheFrenchcaptainin 'TheAttackontheMill',
'We've won! We've won!' on piles of corpses and flattened
buildings. It would seem very likely therefore that, having
survived for a century, these brilliant stories, so varied in theme
andtone, willcontinuetoengrossandentertainreadersforalong
time to come.
D.P.
Adelaide, South Australia

NOTE ON THE TEXTS
The first five ofthe stories selected here appear in the chrono-
logical orderoftheir publication in periodicals. Ofthe remaining
stories, those eventually published in volume form appear in the
chronological order ofthe publication ofthe various volumes,
and in thesequencein whichtheyaregroupedwithinaparticular
volume. Publication details and general notes on each story will
be found in the Explanatory Notes.
Zola's titles are often rather unenlightening, and the translator
has ventured, here and there, to provide English versions that
may be found more stimulating. The original French titles areto
be found in the Introduction or the Notes.

SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY
Many ofthe original manuscripts ofthe short stories have been
lost (see 'Les "Manuscrits perdus" d'Emile Zola' in Les Cahiers
naturalistes, no. 39, 1970, pp. 84-6). Printed texts ofthe stories,
either in their various versions in periodicals or in volume form
are available in the Bibliotheque Nationale in Paris, and, in part,
in the BritishMuseum Library in London.
Three ofthe main twentieth-century editions ofthe short stories
are: Contes et Nouvelles, ed. Maurice le Blond (2 vols,Bernouard,
Paris, 1928); Contes et Nouvelles, ed. H. Mitterand, vol. 9 of
Oeuvres completes (Cercle du Livre Precieux, Paris, 1970); Etnile
Zola, Contes et Nouvelles, ed. R. Ripoll (Gallimard, Bibliotheque
de la Pleiade,Paris, 1976).
Zola's short stories have received remarkably little critical atten-
tion either in French or English. Readers should consult Les
Cahiers naturalistes, passim, and H. Mitterand and H. Suwala,
Etnile ZolaJournaliste: Bibliographie chronologique et analytique (Les
Belles Lettres, Paris, 1968) and H. Mitterand, Zola journaliste
(Armand Colin,Paris, 1962).
The standard critical biography of Zola is by E W. J.
Hemmings (Oxford University Press, rev. edn, 1964). See also in
English, J. C. Lapp, Zola before the Rougon-Macquart (University
ofToronto Press, 1964).
Articles specifically on Zola's short stories include:D.Baguley,
'Maupassant avant la lettre? A study of a Zola short story, Les
Coquillages de M. Chabre (Nottingham French Studies, 6,
October 1967, pp. 77-86); J. Christie, The Enigma of Zola's
Madame Sourdis' (Nottingham French Studies, 4, May 1968, pp.
21-2); R.J. Niess, 'Autobiographical elements in Zola'sJoie de
Vivre and La Mort d'Olivier Becaille (Modern Language Notes,
57, no. 3, March 1942, pp. 205-7); R. Ricatte, 'Zola conteur'
(Europe, April-May 1968, pp. 209-17); J. Triomphe, 'Zola col-
laborateur du "Messager d'Europe" (Revue de Litterature
comparee, 17,no.4, 1937,pp.754-65).

A CHRONOLOGY OF EMILE ZOLA
1840 Emile Zola born 2 April, in Pans, ofFrench mother and Italian
father
1843 Family settles in Aix-en-Provence
1847 Emile's father dies
1859 Zola twice fails school-leaving Baccalaureat
1861 Destitute in Pans. Zola obtains post in shop ofnewly-founded
firm ofHachette. Already writing poetry and short stories
1864 InchargeofHachette'spublicity. Publishesfirstcollectionofshort
stories, Contes a Ninon
1865 Publication offirst novel, La Confession de Claude. Liaison with
Gabrielle-Alexandrine Meley; leaves Hachette, and embarks on
writingcareer, atfirstlargelyasajournalist(reviewer, critic, short
story and feature article writer)
1867 Favourable article on Manet's painting. As friend of Cezanne,
frequents artistic circles, including many Impressionists. Publica-
tion ofTherese Raquin
1870 Marries Mile Meley. Publication in serial form ofLa Fortune des
Rougon, which becomes the first ofthe twenty-volume cycle of
novels concerning the Rougon-Macquart family, published over
the next twenty-three years. Takes refuge in Marseilles to avoid
invading Prussian army; later becomes Parliamentary corres-
pondent to French government, which had retreated to Bordeaux
1871 Returns briefly to Paris but leaves to avoid Commune uprising
1874 Publication ofXouveaux Contes a Ninon
1875 Beginning ofcollaboration with St Petersburg periodical I'estmk
l.vropy {European Messenger). Holiday in Saint-Aubin, on
Normandy coast (c.f. 'Coqueville on the Spree')
1876 Holiday in Piriac (c.f. 'Shellfish for Monsieur Chabre')
1877 SuccessofL'Assommoir, seventh volumeofRougon-Macquartseries,
brings fame and financial security. Holiday in L'Estaque {c.f. 'A
Flash in the Pan')
1878 Buys property in Medan, village on outskirts ofPans
1880 Publication ofSoirees de Medan (see notes on 'The Attack on the
Mill'). End ofcollaboration with I'estmk livropy
1882 PublicationinFranceinonevolumeofsixofZola's I estntkHvropy
stones, under collective title oi Lt Capttamc Burlc
I'ubhcation in one volume offurther six ofZob's I'estmk- Evropf
stones, under collective title ofNats Micoutin

xxiv A Chronology ofEmile Zola
1885 Publication ofGerminal, twelfth in the Rougon-Macquartseries
1888 Starts lifelong liaison withJeanne Rozerot
1889 Birth ofDenise, daughter ofJeanne and Zola
1891 Birth ofJacques, son ofJeanne and Zola
1893 Le DocteurPascalends Rougon-Macquartseries
1894 Extended trip to Italy
1898 Publication ofZola's articleJ'Accusein Paris newspaper in favour
ofDreyfusleadshimtotakerefugein Englandtoavoidimprison-
ment. Writes his last story, 'TheHaunted House' (Angeline)
1902 Death ofZola by asphyxiation in his Paris flat; suspicion that his
bedroom chimney may havebeen deliberately blocked

THE GIRL WHO LOVES ME
Is the Girl Who Loves Me a fine lady dressed in silk and lace
and jewels, reclining on a sofa in her boudoir, dreaming of
our love? Is She a marchioness or duchess, as light-footed and
dainty as a dream, langorously trailing her long flowing white
gown over sumptuous rugs with a charming pout, softer than
a smile, on her lips? Is the Girl Who Loves Me a smart little
grisette skipping along the pavement, lifting her skirts as she
hopsoverthegutterand glancing sideways to makesure that the
slimness ofher legs is receiving its due appreciation? Is She an
easy-going sort of girl who is not very particular whose glass
She's drinking out of, wearing satin one day and coarse calico
the next, with a capacious heart able to find a little corner for
everybody?
Is the Girl Who Loves Me the fair-haired young girl kneeling
downto pray beside hermotherorthe Foolish Virgin hailing me
at night from a dark little side street? Is She the nut-brown
peasant wench who looks at me as I walk by and who still keeps
thinking of me amidst her wheatfields and vineyards? Or the
poor woman who thanks me when I give her alms? The woman
belonging to some other man, husband or lover, whom I
followed one day and never saw again?
Is the Girl Who Loves Me a European, pale as the dawn, an
Asian, golden yellow like the setting sun, or a daughter ofthe
desert, black as the starry sky?
IstheGirl
WhoLovesMehiddenbehindthatpartitionorisShe
over the Ocean? Is She further than the stars?
Is the Girl Who Loves Me not yet born? Or did She die a
hundred years ago?
Yesterday I went in searchofheron a fairground. Therewas a
celebration in oneofthesuburbs and the populace, all dressed up
in their Sunday best, was noisily thronging the streets
The tairy-lights hadjust been lit. Spaced out along the avenue
there were blue and vellow posts decorated with shallow tups in

2 The Girl Who Loves Me
which wicks were burning, smoking and fluttering in the wind.
Venetian lanterns were swaying to and fro in the trees. The
pavements were lined with canvas booths whose red-fringed
curtainsweretrailinginthegutter. Gildedpiecesofchina, bright-
coloured sweetmeats and garish stall displays were glittering in
the harsh light ofthe flares.
Theairwasheavy with thesmellofdust, gingerbreadandcrisp
waffles. Hurdy-gurdies were grinding out their tunes; clowns
with powdered faces were laughing and crying as they were
showered with kicks and blows. Over all this gay spectacle a
warm haze was hanging.
Above the haze and the noise, the summer sky stretched out,
vast and pureand sad. An angel hadjustlit up its azuredepths in
honour ofsome divine festivity, a celebration ofinfinity, serene
in its sovereign majesty.
Lost in the crowd, I became aware of the loneliness of my
heart. As I walked along, following with my eyes the girls who
smiled at me as I wentby, I saidto myselfthat I should neversee
them again. Thethoughtofall thesewarm, tenderlips, glimpsed
forabriefsecondandthenlostforever, filled myheartwithdeep
distress.
With these thoughts, I reached a crossing in the middle ofthe
avenue. On the left, leaning against an elm tree, there stood a
solitary booth. In front, a few planks roughly nailed together
formed a stage and the entrance, screened by a strip ofcanvas,
was lit by two lanterns. I stopped to look at a man dressed in a
long black magician's gown and a star-spangled pointed hat
standing on the platform haranguing the crowd.
'Roll up! Roll up!' he was shouting. 'Come along, all you fine
ladiesandgentlemen! I'vejustcomehotfootfromdarkestIndiato
gladden your hearts, risking my life to bring back for your
pleasure the Mirror of Love which was guarded by a dreaded
dragon. And now, you fine ladies and gents, I can offer you the
realization of all your dreams. Walk up, walk up, ladies and
gentlemen, and see the Girl Who Loves You! Yes, the Girl Who
Loves You, for only two sous!'
An old woman dressed as a nautch girl pulled aside the canvas
strip. Shegapedatthecrowd andshouted in a hoarsevoice: 'Roll
up! Roll up! Only two sous for the Girl Who Loves You! Come
along and see the Girl Who Loves You!'

The Girl Who Loves Me
The magician beat a lively tattoo on the big drum, with a
vigorous accompaniment from the nautch girl on a bell.
The public was undecided. A trained donkey playing cards is
fascinating;astrongmanliftinghundred-poundweightsisasight
not to be missed; nor can it be denied that a half-naked giant
woman offers attractions for all ages. But to see the Girl Who
Loves You is something oflittle interest to anyone and hardly
offers much ofa thrill.
I had been listening spellbound to the invitation ofthe man in
the long black robe. His promises struck a chord deep in my
heart; it was surely Providence which had chanced to lead my
stepshere and my amazementat hearing this miserablelittle man
reading my innermost thoughts raised him considerably in my
estimation. As hebeat away with truly diabolical fury on his big
drum and shouted in a voice that completely drowned the sound
ofthe bell, his blazing eyes seemed to be boring into me.
I wasjust about to place my footon the firststep leading up to
the platform when I felt someone holding me back. I turned
round and saw a man standing at the foot ofthe stage who had
caught me by thesleeve. He was tall and thin and his largehands
werecovered in still largergloves. Hewas wearingahat thathad
turned a reddish colour, a black frockcoat rubbed white at the
elbows and twill breeches in a deplorablestate, yellow with mud
and stained with grease. He made a long, superb bow that bent
him double and addressed me in a high-pitched voice, in these
words:
'I amdeeply unhappy, mydearsir, toseeayoungmanofgood
upbringing setting such a bad example to the populace. It is
extremely frivolous on your part to encourage that impudent
rogue who is trading on our baser instincts, for I find it
profoundly immoral ofhim to be publicly inviting, so vocifer-
ously, young menand younggirlstoindulgeinvisualand mental
debauchery ofthis sort. Oh, my dear sir, the people are weak
but men likeus, fortifiedby thebenefitsofa goodeducation, we,
sir, I beg you to remember, have a solemn and compelling duty:
letusnotgivewaytooursinful curiosity, letusbeworthycitizens
in every respect. The moralityofoursociety, sir. depends on us.'

4 The Girl Who Loves Me
I listened to his words. He had continued to hold on to my
sleeveandseemedunabletobringhimselftostopbowing. Hatin
hand, hewaspontificatinginsogentleandobligingamannerthat
thethoughtneverentered myheadtobecomeannoyed. Whenhe
had finished speaking, I merely looked him straight in the eyes
withoutattemptingtoreply. Hetookmy silencetobeaquestion.
'I am, dear sir,' he went on, with yet another bow, 'I am the
Friend ofthe People* and my mission is to bring happiness to
mankind.'
He pronounced these words with an air ofmodest pride and
suddenly drew himselfup to his full height. I turned on myheels
and climbed up on to the platform. Before going in, as I pulled
thecanvasstripaside, Ilookedbackathim forthelasttime. With
his right hand he had delicately caught hold ofthe fingers ofhis
left and was trying to smooth out the wrinkles of his glove,
which seemed in danger ofslipping off.
Then, folding his arms, the Friend of the People tenderly
contemplated the nautch girl.
I let the canvas fall behind me and found myselfin the inner
sanctum. It was a kind of long narrow room, chairless, with
canvas walls, and litby a singlelamp. A few peoplewerealready
gathered there: somegirls, all agog with curiosity, and a number
ofnoisy young men. Everything was highly proper: the sexes
were segregated by means ofa rope stretched across the room.
To tell the truth, the Mirror ofLove was nothing more than a
pair oftwo-way mirrors, one in each compartment, tiny round
panes ofglass looking into theinsideofthebooth. The promised
miracle was being performed with admirable simplicity: all you
hadtodowastoplaceyoureyeagainstthepaneofglassandyour
Loved One appeared on the other side, without any assistance
from fire and brimstone. How could anyone fail to believe in
such a natural vision!
I didn't feel ready to undergo the ordeal immediately on going
in: thenautchgirlhadgivenme aheart-chillinglookasI wentby.
How could I know what was awaiting me on the other side of
that pane ofglass? It might be a horrifying face with lifeless eyes

The Girl Who Loves Me 5
and purplelips; ora centenarian thirstingforyoungblood, oneof
those misshapen creatures whom I used to see in mynightmares.
I was no longer able to believe in those lovely fair-haired ladies
whom Icharitablyinventtocolonizemyprivatedesert.
I
thought
ofall those ugly women who show some fondness for me and
asked myselfwith dismay whether it might not be one ofthem
who would be appearing before my eyes.
1 went away into a corner and urged myselfon by watching
those people, braver than I, who were prepared to consult their
fatewithoutsomuchheart-searching.
I
soonfoundmyselftaking
a strange pleasure in watching their different expressions as they
peered with their right eye wide open and two fingers covering
theirleftone, each witha particularsmileaccording to theextent
oftheirenjoymentatwhat theysaw. Thepaneofglass was fairly
low and they had to bend down slightly; nothing seemed to me
more ludicrous than the sight ofthese men lining up to peep at
their soulmate through a hole a few inches in size.
Two soldiers led the way: a sergeant tanned by the African
sun and a young conscript, a farm-hand still smelling of the
land, his arms floating awkwardly in a greatcoat three sizes
too large for him. The sergeant gave a scornful laugh. The
conscript remained bending forward for a long time, un-
commonly pleased with himself at having found a girl-
friend.
Then a stout man with a whitejacket and a bloated red face
looked through the hole, calmly and without showing either
pleasure or displeasure, as ifit was perfectly natural for someone
to love him.
He was followed by three schoolboys, cheeky-looking young
scamps offifteen or sixteen,jostling each other to make believe
that they had achieved the distinction ofbeing drunk. All three
swore blind that they recognized their aunt.
So all these people satisfied their curiosity by peeping through
the pane of glass one by one and I can no longer remember
now all the different expressions on their faces which struck me
at the time. Oh, that vision of the Loved One! What hard
truths you forced those peering eyes to admit! Those eyes were
the real Mirrors of Love, mirrors in which feminine charm
was reflected in a squalid glint in which lust vied with
stupidity.

The Girl Who Loves Me
At the other window, the girls were enjoying themselves in a
more seemly way. The only expression on their faces was oneof
great curiosity, with not the slightest trace ofnasty thoughts or
lewdness. They were coming up and peeping through the hole
one by one with a surprised look and then going away, some
pensively, others laughing and giggling.
In pointoffact, I couldn'treallyimaginewhattheyweredoing
there. IfI were a woman with the slightest claims to be called
pretty, I'dneverbesosillyastobothertogoandlookattheMan
Who Loved Me. On days when I felt sad and lonely, that is on
finesunnydaysinthespring, I'dgo fora walkalongalanefull of
blossom and I'd make every passer-by adore me. In the evening
I'd come home with a great store oflove.
True, these inquisitive girls were not all equally pretty. The
beautifulonesobviouslydidn'tgivea damn for the magician'sarts;
they'dlongsinceceasedtohaveneedofthem. Theplainonesonthe
otherhandhadneverenjoyedthemselvessomuch. Onesuch, with
a large mouth and sparse hair, found it hard to tear herselfaway
from the Magic Mirror; she still had on her face thebright heart-
breaking smile ofa beggar eating his fill after a long fast.
I asked myselfwhat romantic notions were being aroused in
their foolish heads. It was not an easy question to answer. They
had all, certainly, seen a prince fallingat their feetin theirdreams
and they all felt the need to become better acquainted with the
sweetheart whom they could still vaguely remember when they
wokeup. Nodoubtmanyofthem weredisappointed; princesare
in shortsupplyandthemind'seyehasaglimpseofabetterworld
at night and is kinder than the one we use during the daytime.
There were also girls who seemed very happy; their dream was
coming true: theirloverhad thesilky moustache and darkhairof
theirdreams. Thesenaive romances, as shortlivedas hope, could
all be deduced from the blush on their cheeks and the gentle
heaving oftheir breast.
Yet after all, these girls were perhapsjust silly and I was being
silly myself to have seen so much where there was no doubt
nothing to see. However, on closer inspection, I felt completely
reassured: both men and women seemed in general extremely

The Girl Who Loves Me 7
wellsatisfiedwithwhattheysaw. Themagicianwouldsurelynot
have been so hardhearted as to give honest folk who'd paid their
two sous to see his show the slightest cause for disappointment.
I
wentoverandtryinghardtoremaincalmputmy righteyeto
the little peep-hole. Resting her elbows on the back of an
armchair placed between two long red curtains was a woman.
Brilliantly lit by concealed lamps, she was standing in front ofa
paintedcanvasbackcloth, somewhattattered, whichmustorigin-
ally have represented a lovers' arbour, with blue trees.
Like any well brought up vision, the Girl Who Loves Me was
wearing a long white dress, slightly waisted, with a long train
trailing in a cloud ofmuslin on the floor. A wide veil, also white
andheldbyacrownofmayblossom, coveredherforehead. Thus
attired, the dear little angel was all whiteness and innocence. She
was leaning forward in a saucy pose, with a tenderly caressing
look in herlargeblueeyes. Behindherveil, I thoughtshelooked
exquisite: long fair curls glimpsed through themuslin, a browof
childlike purity,, delicately curved lips and the most kissable
dimples you could possibly imagine. At first sight sheseemed to
me a saint; a second look gave me the impression ofan easy-
goingsortofgirl, farfromprudishandextremelyaccommodating.
She put three fingers to her lips and blew me a kiss with a
curtsy that had nothing otherworldly about it at all. Seeing that
sheshowed no sign oflevitating, I fixed her features in my mind
and walked away.
As I was going out, I saw the Friend ofthe People coming in.
This solemn preacher did not seem anxious to meet me; he
hurried over to the peep-hole and set a bad example of sinful
curiosity. Bent double, his long back squirmed with desire; then,
unable to go any further, he kissed the magic mirror.
I went down the three steps and found myself once more
caught up in the crowd. Now that I had seen her smile, I was
determined to go in search ofthe Girl Who Loves Me.
The lamps were smoking, the bustle was growing more and
more frantic and thejostling throng was threatening to overturn
the booths. The festivity had reached that apogee ofjoy when
you face the happy fate ofbeing crushed to death.

8 The Girl Who Loves Me
Craning my neck, I could see an horizon oflinen bonnets and
silk hats. I walked along, pushing past the men and making my
way circumspectly round the ladies' voluminous skirts. Perhaps
it was that pink cape; perhaps that tulle coiffe adorned with
mauve ribbons; perhaps that delightful straw toque with its
ostrich feather? Alas, the cape was sixty years old; the coiffe was
disastrously ugly and leaning lovingly against the shoulder ofa
sapper in uniform; the toque was in fits oflaughter and her big
roundeyesweretheloveliestyoueversaw, butnottheonesI was
looking for.
Over all crowds there seems to float a vague distress, an
atmosphere ofpervasive melancholy, as ifany large gathering of
people creates an aura ofterror and pity. I'venever found myself
in any large group without feeling a kind ofunease. It always
seems to me as if this assembled mass of men and women is
threatened by a dreadful doom, that one single flash oflightning
will suffice to freeze their frenzied gestures into immobility and
still their raucous cries forever. . .
As I watched this heartrendingly festive mood I gradually
slowed mypace. I sawanold beggarstandingintheyellow glare
ofthe fairy-lights, his crooked body paralysed with arthritis. His
face was ghastly pale and he was looking piteously up at the
passers-by, blinking his rheumy eyes to soften their hearts. He
kept making sudden twitches with his limbs so that they
trembled like a dry branch. The sprightly young girls were
walking past this hideous spectacle laughing and blushing.
Furtheron, twoworkmenwerehavingafightoutsideatavern. In
their struggle they had overturned their drinks and the wine was
flowing over the pavement like blood pouring out ofa wound.
Thelaughterseemed to changeintosobs, thefairy-lightsintoa
blazing fire and the crowd went spinning round, gripped by
horror. As I walked along, peering questioningly at all these
young faces, I felt sad unto death as I vainly soughtthe Girl Who
Loves Me.
I saw a man standing in front ofone ofthe posts to which the
fairy-lights were attached, contemplating it with rapt attention.
From his weary look, I realized that he was seeking the solution

The Girl Who Loves Me 9
to some weighty problem. I recognized the Friend ofthe People.
He turned his head and saw me.
'Theoil used in these festivities, my dearsir,' hesaidto me, 'is
priced at one franc a litre. A litre ofoil will fill twenty ofthese
cups that you see here, that is to say, it costs five centimes for
each. Now this postherehassixteen rows, eachcomprisingeight
cups. Furthermore, if you can follow my calculation, I have
counted sixty identical posts along this avenue, thus making
seventhousandsixhundredandeightycups, whichbringsustoa
total of seven thousand six hundred and eighty sous, in other
words three hundred and eighty-four francs.'
As he spoke, the Friend ofthe People was waving his arms in
the air to emphasize each figure and bending forward from the
waist as if to place himself within reach of my limited intelli-
gence. Assoonashehadfinishedtalking, hestraightenedupwith
an air oftriumph, folded his arms and looked at me solemnly.
'Threehundredandeighty-fourfrancsworthofoil!'heexclaimed,
stressingeverysyllabl—e. 'Andthepoorhaven'tenoughbrea
—
dtoeat,
mydearsir. Iaskyou andIaskthiswithtearsin myeyes would
itnotbe moredecent, fortheloveofhumanity, to distributethose
threehundredandeighty-fourfrancstothethreethousandpoorand
indigent persons numbered in this suburb alone? Such an act of
charitywouldprovideeachofthemwithapproximatelytwelveand
a half centimes worth of bread. This reflection should give all
sensitive people serious food for thought, my dear sir.'
He saw that I was looking at him with curiosity and his voice
took on a dying fall as he smoothed his gloves over his fingers.
'Poor people should not enjoy themselves, dear sir. It is quite
unseemly forthem to forget theirpoverty forasinglehour. Who
indeed would shed tears for the sufferings ofthe people were the
government to provide such saturnalia frequently?'
He wiped away a tear and left me. I saw him go into a wine-
shop where hedrownedhissorrowsin fiveorsixsmall glassesof
wine which he gulped down in quick succession at the bar.
8
The last fairy-lights had just gone out. The crowd had
departed. In the flickering light of the street lamps, there were
now only a few dark shapes to be seen wandering underthetrees.

10 The Girl Who Loves Me
belated loving couples, drunks and melancholy patrolling con-
stables. Thedrabandsilentlinesofboothsstretchedonbothsides
ofthe avenue, like the tents ofa deserted encampment.
Themorning breeze, damp withdew, settheleaves oftheelm
trees quivering. The pungent effluvia ofthe evening had given
way to a delicious freshness. Fondly, the infinite silence and
limpid shadows ofthe fathomless sky sank slowly down to earth
as the festive stars succeeded the festive fairy-lights. At last
respectable folk would be ableto take their pleasurein theirown
way.*
Ifeltreinvigorated. Thetimehadcomeformetoenjoymyself.
I stepped out at a brisk pace, walking up and down thetree-lined
alleys, when I saw a grey shadow slipping along beside the
houses. The shadow was coming quickly towards me and
from her light step and swinging dress, I realized that it was a
woman.
Just as she was about to bump into me, she looked up. In the
lightofa streetlamp,
I
recognizedthe faceoftheGirl Who Loves
Me; not the Goddess in her cloud of white muslin but a poor
earthbound girl in a faded cotton frock. Poverty-stricken as she
looked, she still seemed charming to me, even ifpale and tired.
There was no possible doubt: there were those same large eyes
and caressing lips of my vision; and in addition, seen more
closely, she had that softness of expression that comes from
suffering.
Asshestoppedforasecond,
I
seizedherhandandkissedit. She
looked up at me with a vague smile and made no attempt to pull
her fingers away. Seeing me standing there without saying a
word, forI wasovercomebyemotion, shegavealittleshrugand
began to go on her way as quickly as she had come.
I ran after her and put my arm round her waist. She gave a
quiet laugh and then shivered, saying in a low voice:
'Let's walk faster, I'm cold.'
My poorlittleangel was cold! Underher thin black shawl, her
shoulders were trembling in the cool wind. I kissed her on the
forehead and asked her gently:
'Do you know me?'
She looked up at me for the third time and replied without
hesitation:
'No.'

The Girl Who Loves Me 11
A sudden thought came into my mind and it was my turn to
shiver.
'Where are we going?' I asked her.
She shrugged her shoulders and, with a little pout ofindiffer-
ence, said in her childlike voice:
'Wherever you like, to my place or yours, I don't mind.'
We were still walking down the avenue.
I
sawtwosoldierssittingonabench. Oneofthemwasgravely
holding forth while the other was listening respectfully. It was
the sergeant and the conscript. The sergeant seemed to me to be
inastateofgreatemotion: hegaveme a derisivelook andsaidin
an undertone:
'Sometimesthe richarewilling tolendto those worseoff, sir.'
Theconscript, anaiveandsensitivesoul, saidto memiserably:
'She was the only girl I had, sir. You're taking the Girl Who
Loves Me away from me.'
I crossed the road and went down the other side.
Threeyoung lads werecoming towards us, holdingonto each
other and singing at the tops of their voices. I recognized the
schoolboys. Theyoungrascalsnolongerhadanyneedtopretend
tobedrunk. They stopped, burstoutlaughingandthenfollowed
me for a few steps, shouting in unsteady voices:
'Hi there, sir, that lady's having you on, she's the Girl Who
Loves Me!'
I felt a cold sweat breaking out on my forehead. I started
walking faster, anxious to get away from them, no longer
thinkingoftheyoungwoman whom
I
wasdraggingalongbeside
me. At the end ofthe avenue,just as I was about to escape from
this diabolical spot, stepping offthe pavement I collided with a
man sitting comfortably in the gutter. Heseemed demented. His
head was propped against a stone and with his face turned
towards the sky, he was doing a very complicated sum on his
fingers.
He turned to look at me and, without raising his head from its
pillow, he said, speaking with some difficulty:
'Ah, it's you, my dear sir. You really should help me to count
the stars. I've already discovered several million but I'm afraid I

12 The Girl Who Loves Me
mayhavemissedoneortwo. Thehappinessofmankind, dearsir,
is strictly a matter ofstatistics.'
He hiccuped and went on in a tearful voice:
'Do you know the cost ofa star? Surely the good Lord must
have spent a great deal ofmoney up there, while down here the
people are going short ofbread, my dear sir! What's the good of
all those fairy-lights? Can you eat them? What, I ask you, is their
practical application? I can't think that we needed this eternal
festivity. No, God has never had the slightest notion ofsocial
economics.'
He had managed to sit up completely and was looking round
him in bewilderment, shaking his head indignantly. At that
moment he caught sight ofmy companion. He gave a start and
turned red in the face as he greedily stretched out his arms.
'Good gracious me!' he exclaimed. 'It's the Girl Who Loves
Me.'
10
'Well, that's how it is,' she said to me. 'I've got no money so I
do what I can to earn a living. Last winter I spent fifteen hours a
day embroidering and there were still days when I went hungry.
So in the spring, I chucked away my needle, because I'd found a
less tiring and more lucrativejob.
'Everyevening I dressupinwhitemuslin. Then Istandleaning
over the back ofan armchair, all alone in a tiny room, and the
only thing I have todo is to smile from six o'clock till midnight.
NowandagainI dropacurtsyorthrowakissintoemptyspace.
I
get paid three francs a session.
'All the timeI can seeaneyewatching methrougha little pane
of glass in the partition. Sometimes it's blue, sometimes it's
brown. Ifit wasn't for that eye I'd be perfectly happy. It spoils
my job for me. There arc times, as I watch that solitary eye
staring at me, when I feel quite terrified and I'm tempted to cry
out and run away.
'But you've got to work to stay alive and so I smile, wave my
hand and throw kisses. At midnight I remove my make-up and
puton mycottonfrock. Ahwell, there'slotsofwomenwho, like
me, put on airs and graces in front ofa wall without even being
obliged to do so.'

RENTAFOIL
InParis, everything's for sale: wisevirgins, foolishvirgins, truth
and lies, tears and smiles.
You must certainly be aware that in such a commercially-
minded place, beauty is a commodity and the object of an
obnoxious trade. People buy and sell big bright eyes and
charming little mouths; noses and chins are all quoted at their
exactvaluation. A particulardimpleorbeauty-spotcancommand
a steady income. And since there's always fraud somewhere or
other, at times you have to copy nature's handiwork, so that
eyebrows drawn with burnt matchends, and false hairpieces
fetch better prices than the real article.
This is quite fair and reasonable. We're a civilized people and
what's the good ofbeing civilizedifitdoesn'thelp us to takeother
peopleinandbetakeninourselves, therebymakinglifelesstedious.
But I must confess tobeing really astonished yesterday when I
learnt that old Durandeau, that businessman known to all and
sundry, had come up with the astoundingly ingenious idea of
finding a market for ugliness.
Selling beauty is something I can understand, even selling false
beauty seems perfectlynatural, it'sa signofprogress. But I think
the businessman I mentioned really has deserved well of his
country by putting into circulation such a hitherto unsaleable
article as ugliness. Don't misunderstand me, I'm talking about
real ugliness, ugly ugliness, sold on the open market.
I'm sure you've occasionally seen women in couples, walking
slowly along the pavement, stopping in front ofshop-windows,
giggling and swishing their long skirts in a very fetching way.
They go along arm-in-arm like good friends, talking as ifthey
have known each other forages. They're aboutthesameage and
both smartly dressed. But one ofthem is always relatively good-
looking, not the sort of face you'd write home about or turn
round to examine more closely, but had you caught sight ofit
accidentally, you'dhavevieweditwithoutdispleasure. Theother
woman isalways hideous, thesortofugliness that grateson your
nervesbutwhichyoucan'ttakeyoureyesoff;itforcesthepasser-
by to draw comparisons between her and her companion.

14 Rentafoil
Own up: you'vesometimes beentakeninandstartedto follow
the couple. In isolation, the hideous one would have disgusted
you and the moderately good-looking one would have left you
cold. Buttogether, theuglinessoftheonehasmagnifiedthegood
looks ofthe other.
Well, let me explain to you that the hideously ugly one, the
monstrosity, belongstoDurandeau'sagency. She'sonthestaffof
Rentafoil. ThegreatDurandeau had hired herouttotheordinary-
looking one at five francs an hour.
Let me tell you the full story.
Durandeau is an imaginative and original entrepreneur, a
multi-millionaire who has succeeded in turning business into an
art. For many years he had been bewailing the fact that no one
had hitherto been able to make money out ofugly girls. As for
pretty ones, trading in them is a tricky matter and I can assure
you that theidea ofsuch a thing has nevercrossed his mind; he's
rich enough to be able to afford scruples.
One day he received a sudden illumination from heaven. As
with all great inventions, this brainwave sprang quite unexpec-
tedlyinto his head. He was walkingalong the boulevard oneday
when he saw two girls tripping along in front ofhim. One was
pretty and one was ugly and as helooked the realization dawned
on him that theugly one was an adornment worn, as it were, by
theprettyone.Justas you buy ribbons and face-powderand false
plaits, it was only right and proper, he said to himself, that the
pretty oneshould buytheuglyoneasasuitableembellishment, a
foil.
Durandeau went home to ponder over the matter. The com-
mercial operation that he had in mind needed to be conducted
with great care. He didn't want to launch out rashly into an
enterprise which would be a stroke ofgenius ifit succeeded and
preposterous ifit failed. He spent the night doing his sums and
reading up those philosophers who have written most wisely
aboutthestupidityofmenandthevanityofwomen. Whendawn
came, his mind was made up: his arithmetic had made sense and
the philosophers had shown such a low opinion ofmankind that
he felt able to rely on a large number ofprospective clients.

Rentafoil 15
If my Muse were more inspired, I'd producea splendidepic on
the creation ofDurandeau's agency. It would be farcical and sad,
full oftears and full oflaughter.
Durandeau had greater difficulty than he had anticipated in
acquiring his stock-in-trade. At first, using the direct approach,
he had little hand-written notices stuck on rainwater-pipes, on
trees and in out-of-the-way corners. These notices read as
follows: 'Ugly girls required. Undemanding work.'
Hewaited a week andnotasingleuglygirlcameforward. Five
or six pretty ones turned up who were facing the desperate
alternative ofstarving to death ora life ofvice but still hoping to
find work to rescue themselves. Durandeau was dreadfully
embarrassed and assured them repeatedly that they were pretty
andofnousetohim. Theyinsistedthatthey wereuglyandthatit
was puregallantryand callousnessonhis part todescribethem as
anything else. Since they were unable to sell their non-existent
ugliness, I expect by now they'll have found buyers for their
undoubted beauty.
By now Durandeau had realized that only pretty women have
the courage to make a false confession ofugliness. The ugly ones
would never admit oftheir own free will that their mouths were
toobigandtheireyesludicrouslysmall. Youcouldputupnotices
all over Parisoffering ten francs toevery ugly woman who cared
to apply without the slightest risk ofbecoming impoverished.
So Durandeau gave up his idea ofnotices and commissioned
half-a-dozen agents to scour the city in search of female mon-
strositi — es: a general mobilizati — onoftheuglywomenofParis. The
agents men oftact and taste had a tricky assignment, needing
to take into account temperament and situation. Thus, when the
person concerned needed money urgently, they didn'tbeatabout
the bush; when they were dealing with girls not yet on the point
ofstarving, they had to show greater subtlety. It's not easy for
someone polite to go up to a woman and say: 'Madame, you're
ugly; I'll pay you so much per day for your ugliness.'
Thishunt forgirls whodarenotfacetheirmirrorswithoutburst-
ing into tears led to many memorable moments. Sometimes the
agents would see passing in the street an ideally ugly woman and
were so keen to show her to Durandeau that they could barely

16 Rentafoil
restrain themselves. Indeed, some ofthem stopped at nothing.
Every morning Durandeauheld courttoinspectthegoodsthat
hadbeenroundedupthedaybefore. Sprawlinginhisarmchairin
ayellow dressing-gownandblacksatinskull cap, hehadthenew
recruits parade in front ofhim, each accompanied by her agent.
Hewouldleanbackandscrutinizethemthroughhalf-closedeyes,
with the air ofa satisfied or disappointed connoisseur; he would
slowlytakeapinch ofsnuffandreflect; then, to geta betterlook,
he'dmakethearticleturnroundandexamineit fromeveryangle;
sometimes he would even stand up and feel the hairor peep into
the facelikea tailorstroking a pieceofclothora grocerchecking
the quality of a lump of tallow or some pepper. When the
ugliness was blatant, when the face was stupid and heavy,
Durandeau would rub his hands together and congratulate the
agent. He would almost have liked to embrace the monstrosity
herself. But he mistrusted any signs ofsingularity in a woman:
eyes that were bright or lips with an ironical twist would make
him scowl and he would say to himselfthat an ugly woman like
that might not excite love but could well excite passion. He
would give the — agent a black look and tell the woman to come
back again later when she was old.
It'snotaseasyasyou mightthink tobean expertinuglinessand
gather a collection of really ugly women unlikely to spoil the
chancesofprettyones. Durandeau's deep knowledgeofthehuman
heart and its passions madehim a collector ofgenius. For him, the
expression was the essential, and he chose only faces that were
intimidating by reason oftheir appalling dullness and stupidity.
Thedayhefeltinapositiontoofferbeautiful womenpasttheir
prime a full selection ofugly ones to match their colouring and
their particular brand ofbeauty, he opened his agency with the
following prospectus:
RENTAFOIL
L. Durandeau Paris, May1st, 18. .
18, Rue M...
in Paris
Office hours: 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Dear Madame,
I have the honour to inform you that I have recently established a
firm with the express purpose of providing a unique service for the

17 Rentafoil
preservationofalady'sbeauty. I haveinventedanarticleoffashionwhich
will add new lustre to your own natural beauty.
Hitherto the means ofenhancing a lady's beauty have been pain-
fully obvious. Jewels and other finery are clearly visible and it is also
well known that false hairpieces exist and rosy cheeks come out ofa
box.
Ihaveendeavouredtoconfrontthisapparentlyinsolubleproblemof
making ladies even lovelier while hiding from any indiscreet eye the
origin oftheir adornment. The question was this: could we find some
infallible method ofensuring that she should attract favourableattention
and avoid wasteful expenditure oftime and energy without recourse to
one single extra ribbon or facial adornment.
I thinkthat I mayflattermyselfthat I havecompletely mastered this
thorny problem.
Today, anylady preparedtohonourmewithherpatronagewill, fora
derisory sum, attract the eyes ofan admiring public.
My articleoffashionisextremely simpleanditseffectis guaranteed. I
needonlydescribeittoyou, Madame, foryoutounderstandimmediately
how it operates.
Haveyounoteverseen abeggar-womanbeinggivenalmsfrom the
elegantly glovedhandofa finelady dressed in silk and other finery? Did
you not notice how splendid the sheen ofher silk looked against the
beggar-woman's rags and how her wealth stood out with even greater
elegance by comparison with the other's poverty?
Madame, I havethepleasureand privilegeofproviding yourlovely
countenance with the richest collection of ugly faces to be found
anywhere. Tatteredragsemphasizethechicofnewclothes:myuglyfaces
bring out the full charm ofpretty ones.
Away with false teeth, false hair, false busts! Away with expensive
cosmeticsandcostlytoiletries, awaywith make-upandlace! SimplyFoils
whosearm youcantake, withwhomyoucanwalkthroughthestreetsto
bring out your beauty and attract the fond gaze ofthe gentlemen!
I invite you, Madame, to honour me with your custom. You will
findinmyagencythegreatestpossiblevarietyofuglycreations. Youwill
beabletoselecttheexacttypeofugliness mostsuitableto yourparticular
style ofbeauty.
Mychargeforthisuniqueserviceisapaltry fivefrancsanhourorfifty
francs for the whole day.
I remain, Madame, your humble and devoted servant,
Durandeau
N.B. MyagencyalsohasastockofMothersandFathers, Unclesand
Aunts at extremely reasonable prices.

18 Rentafoil
The venture was a great success. When the agency opened the
verynextmorning, theofficewascrowdedwithfemalecustomers
each choosing her own foil and carrying it off with a tigerish
delight. You can't imagine the pleasure of a pretty woman
leaning on the arm ofan ugly one. Not only was she enhancing
her own beauty, she was enjoying someone else's ugliness.
Durandeau is a great philosopher.
However, don't imagine that organizing this service was an
easymatter. Therewereinnumerablehitches. Ithadbeendifficult
enough to organize the supply; it was far worse trying to satisfy
the demand.
Whenoneladyappearedandaskedforafoil, theydisplayedthe
goods and invitedher to makeherchoice, contenting themselves
merely with offering a few helpful hints. The lady then went
disdainfully from one foil to the next, finding all the poor girls
either too ugly or not ugly enough, on the grounds that not one
ofthem had the rightkindofugliness tosuitherown special sort
of beauty. The assistants did their best by pointing out a
splendidly crooked nosehere, an enormous slitofa mouth there:
they might have saved their breath.
At other times the lady herselfwas appallingly ugly and ifhe
happened to be present, Durandeau would be itching to takeher
on to his staffat any price. This lady wanted a foil to set offher
beauty, shedeclared; shewantedayoungone, nottoougly, since
herbeauty needed little embellishment. The despairing assistants
placedherinfrontofalargemirrorandparadedtheirwholestock
beside her. She still took the prize for ugliness and flounced off
indignantly, furious thatthey had dared toofferhersuchinferior
articles.
Gradually, however, aregularclientelebecameestablishedand
each foil had her regular customers. Durandeau was ableto relax
withtheinnersatisfactionofhavingachievedanewbreakthrough
in civilization.
I don't know ifyou can realize what it is like to be a foil; they
havetheirjoys and public triumphs but they also have theirvery
private sorrows.
Foils are ugly; they're slaves and they suffer sincetheir money
comes from being slaves and ugly. On the other hand, they're

Rentafoil 19
well-dressed, they wear jewellery, they walk arm-in-arm with
the upper crust of the ladies of the town, go everywhere by
carriage, eat in the best restaurants and spend their evenings at
the theatre. They're on familiar terms with fashionable cocottes
and the simple-minded think they belong to the high society of
race-goers and first-nighters.
They spend all day in a whirl ofgaiety. At night, they fretand
fume and sob. They've had to take off their fine dress which
belongs to the agency, they're all alone in their attic, sitting in
front ofa bit ofbroken mirror which tells them the truth. Their
ugliness is staring them mercilessly in the face and they're quite
aware that nobody will ever love them. They may help to excite
desire but never will they know the joy of being kissed
themselves.
I'vetriedtotellyouherethestoryofthecreationofDurandeau's
agency and make his name known to posterity. Such men have
their special niche in the hall offame.
One day I may write the Secret Memoirs ofa Foil. I knew one
such unfortunate girl whose sad tale was heartrending. Her
customers were ladies ofthe town known to everyone in Paris
and theytreated herquiteshamefully. Please, ladies, don'tmisuse
your foils, be kind towards the ugly ducklings without whose
help you wouldn't even be pretty at all!
This foil I knew was an emotional sort ofgirl whom 1 suspect
ofreadingtoo much Walter Scott.* I knownothingsadderthan a
hunchback in loveoran ugly woman full ofromanticideals. The
wretched girl kept falling in love with all the young men whose
eyes were caught by her unfortunate face, which then led their
attention on to her employer. It was like a mirror being in love
with the larks which it lures down within the range of the
huntsman's gun.
She had many harrowing experiences. She was terribly jealous
ofthose women who bought her like a skin-cream or a pair o\
boots. She was an object hired for so much an hour <un\ it so
happened that this object had feelings. Can you imagine her
resentment while she had to smile and joke familiarly with the
women who were depriving her of her share o( love! I hose

20 Rentafoil
professional Beauties who took malicious pleasure in using
honeyedwordsinpublicand treatingherlikeaskivvyinprivate,
whomtheywouldhavesmashedwithnomoreconcernthanthey
would have broken a china figure in their display-cabinet.
Butwhat importancehas a tormented soul when progressis at
stake?Mankind marcheson. Durandeau will beblessed by future
generations because he has created a market for a hitherto
unsaleable commodity and invented a fashion article which
makes love easier.

DEATH BY ADVERTISING
I ONCEknew a very nice young man. He died last year. His life
had become a sheer martyrdom. Let me tell you the story ofa
man killed by advertising. Pierre Landry was born in the Rue St
Honore, near the Central Markets; a paradise foridleloafers. His
first reading lessons were given him by his nurse who made him
spell out the signs and billposters in the streets. He grew to like
those large oblong yellow and blue pieces of paper so con-
veniently displayed on the walls and later on, as a young lad
—
roaming the streets, he fell in love with someofthe posters the
ones printed in enormous characters in queer shapes, on which
there is a lot to read. His father, a retired hosier, had completed
hisson'seducation byletting himhavetheadvertisementpageto
—
read everyone knows that the large print ofthe advertisements
is easier for children to make out.
At the age oftwenty, Pierre Landry was orphaned and found
himselfquite well-off. He decided to live entirely for his own
pleasure and to exploit every aspect of modern progressive
civilization for his own personal benefit. His father had been a
worker; he was going to relax and enjoy the fantastic luxury of
the Golden Age promised him by the advertisements on page
four ofhis paper and on the hoardings. 'What a marvellous age
we live in!' he mused, 'an age of enlightenment and benefits
without end. Where can you see anything more moving than
those men whodevotethemselvesnightanddayto thehappiness
of mankind by producing a constant stream of inventions to
provideus with a more peaceful and happy lifeand who are even
sogenerousastoputall thesedelightfulthings within reachofthe
most modest purse? And to think that these benefactors of
mankind even take the trouble to draw our attention to all these
wonderful things, greatandsmall, tell uswheretofindthem, and
even how much we'll have to pay for them! Some ofthem we
really ought to thank on bended knees for being willing even to
lose moneyon ourbehalf; and others arcquitesatisfied merely to
cover their expenses. They're working purely in the service of
mankind, so that we can live richer, peaceful lives. Well. I've
already planned how I want to live. I intend to keep up with

22 Death by Advertising
progress and enjoy all the advantages of the modern world
without any further question. I want a blissfully happy life and
forthat, all I needis to consult thenewspapers andposters, night
and morning, and do exactly what they tell me. It's an infallible
guide to true wisdom and happiness is guaranteed!'
From then on, Pierre's guidelinein life was the advertisements
in the papers and on the hoardings. He followed them blindly
whenever he had a decision to make and he would never buy or
do anything that hadn't been warmly recommended by the
publicity men. Every morning he would religiously scan the
papers, conscientiously noting down the new discoveries and
products. As a result his home became a repository of every
crackbrained invention orshoddy articleon salein Paris. Indeed,
his basic reasoning was not without logic. By keeping abreast of
thetimes, andchoosingtheproductsmostenthusiasticallypraised
and recommended in rhapsodic terms by the publicity men, he
could claim, with legitimate pride, that he was using the most
advanced products ofthe most highly developed civilization in
the world and had thus solved the problem ofattaining perfec-
tion. However, this was only the theory, and unfortunately the
reality became more unpleasant every day. Although everything
should have been for the best, in fact it all went from bad to
worseandthedramanowbeganwhich wastomakehislifeahell
on earth.
He had bought a plot offilled-in swampland, into which his
house slowly sank. The house itselfhad been built according to
the latest modern principles; when the wind blew, it shook and
when rainstorms came, it gently crumbled. The fireplaces,
equippedwithingenioussmokelesshoods, belchedforthasphyxi-
ating fumes; the electric bells remained obstinately silent; the
carefully planned modern lavatories turned out to be noisome
cesspits; cupboardsprovidedwithspecialmechanicallockswould
neither open nor shut properly.
Inparticular, therewasasplendidpianolawhichsounded likea
ratherinferiorhurdy-gurdy, and a burglar-proofand fireproofsafe
which was quietly removed, bodily, by burglars one fine winter's
night. TherewasalsothecountrycottagethatPierrehadboughtat
Arcueil, which was quite a different story. Here, he experimented
with trees cut out ofsheet metal and tried cultivating rare plants
which, when they grew, looked like rather poor couchgrass. His

Death by Advertising 23
architect-designed water tank, widely advertised, collapsed and he
was nearly drowned as well as almost crushed to death.
Amidst all these trials and tribulations, Pierre continued to
smile blandly, his faith quite unshaken. On the contrary, his
confidencegrewstronger. 'Everything isn'tyetforthebestin the
best ofall possible worlds,'* he said to himself, 'and the most
logical way to avoid all these misfortunes is to follow the march
of progress even more closely. The reason my water tank
collapsed was that my architect wasn't warmly enough recom-
mended. I mustfindonerecommended morestrongly. IfI watch
the newspapers, I'm bound to achieve perfection and perfect
happiness.'
Poor Pierre suffered not only in his possessions but in his
person.
His clothes would split at the seams as he was walking down
thestreet: hehadboughtthem from firms offeringvastdiscounts
on stocks being cleared, either because of stock-taking or a
takeover. Hewouldseekoutsuchbargainsnotthroughmeanness
but solely in order toenjoy all the benefits ofthe modern world.
One day when I met him, he'd gone completely bald. In
his tireless pursuit of progress, he had hit on the odd idea of
changingthecolourofhishairfromblondtodark. He'dapplieda
liquid which made all his hair fall out, to his great delight, since
he could now, he claimed, employ a certain hair lotion guaran-
teed to give him a head of brown hair twice as thick as his
previous one. Incidentally, his cheeks and chin were perpetually
covered in gashes from the superior modern razors he used. His
hats went out ofshape after a week's wear and the clever little
springs designed to open his umbrella never worked when it was
raining.
I won't mention all his patent medicines. He had always been
strong and healthy; he became emaciated and short of breath.
And now advertising really started to destroy him. Thinking he
was ill, he began to try out all the wonder-cures advertised in
such glowing terms, and to increase their effectiveness, since he
wasquiteata loss todistinguish between theirconflicting claims,
all couched in equally highflown language, he took all the
medicines at once. He also consumed enormous quantities of
chocolate, unable to resist the blandishments of the various
manufacturers. He used toiletries in great abundance and several

24 Death by Advertising
times went to have teeth pulled out in order to provide work for
numerous philanthropicdentists whosworeblindthattheirextrac-
tion would be painless, nearly breaking yourjaw in the process.
Advertising attacked his mind as well as his body. He had
bought an extendable bookcase into which he crammed all the
books recommended in newspaper reviews. He invented a very
ingenious classification system: he arranged books according to
their order ofmerit, that is to say, according to the degree of
enthusiasm displayed by the reviewers, all subsidized by the
publishers. Hisshelves groanedundertheweightofhiscollection
ofrubbish recording all the stupidity and corruption ofthe age.
On the back of each volume, Pierre carefully stuck the blurb
which had caused him tobuy it, so thateach timeheopened ithe
knew in advance how he ought to react: he could laugh or weep
according to the instructions.
The outcome of all this was to turn him into a moron,
although, havingbecomemoreselectiveanddifficulttoplease, in
the end he bought only those books described as 'outstanding
masterpieces', thereby reducing his purchases to some twenty
books a week.
We now reach the last act ofthis harrowing drama. Having
heard ofa clairvoyante claiming to cure all ills, he rushed round
to consult her about his own non-existent diseases. The clair-
voyante obligingly offered to restore his youth. All hehad to do
was to drink a certain liquid and take a bath. Pierre Landry was
convincedthatsuch a potion mustbetheacmeofcivilization. He
swallowed thedrug,jumped intohis bath and regainedhis youth
to such good effect that two hours later he was discovered there,
dead. Hehada smileon his lipsandthelookofecstasyonhis face
suggested that he had died worshipping the Great God Advertis-
ing. This was no doubt the radical remedy for all ills promised
him by the clairvoyante.
Even in death, Pierre Landry remained the humble devotee of
advertising. In his will, he had asked to be embalmed in a casket
in accordance with a recently patented instant chemical process.
At the cemetery, the coffin burst open, tipping his wretched
corpseintothe mud. Hehadtobeburiedhiggledy-piggledy with
thebroken bitsofplank. Next winter, therainsrottedthepapier-
mache ofhis imitation marble tombstone, and his grave was left
an anonymous heap ofmouldering refuse.

STORY OF A MADMAN
ISIDORE-JEAN-LOUIS MAURIN was a worthy middle-class
citizen, the owner of several blocks of flats in Belleville* and
residingonthefirstfloorofoneofthem. Hehad grown upinthe
back roomsofthis old house, tendinghisgarden and idling away
hisdayslikemanyaParisianwithtimeonhishands. Attheageof
forty he was foolish enough to marry the daughter ofone ofhis
tenants, an eighteen-year-old blonde whose grey eyes with their
occasional sparkle were as shining and gentle as a cat's.
Six months later she had found herway upstairs to theflat ofa
young doctor who lived on the floor above. This happened as
naturally as anything, one evening during a thunderstorm while
Maurin had gone out for a stroll along the fortifications ofParis.
Their love grew into a devouring passion. They soon found that
the few odd minutes they were able to steal together in secret
werenotenough; theydreamtoflivingtogetherasmanandwife.
Their close proximity, the fact that they were separated from
each other by nothing more than the thickness of a ceiling,
sharpened their desire still more. At night, the lover could hear
the husband coughing in bed.
Mind you, Maurin was a decent sort, known in the district
asamodel husband; hedidn'tpryandhewasas kindandtolerant
as anyone could be. But that was exactly what made him such
an exasperating obstacle; with his contented nature, he hardly
ever left the flat and the very simplicity of his tastes meant
that his young wife was a prisoner in the house. After a few
weeks, she had run out ofexcuses for visiting the second floor
and so the lovers decided that the old fellow must be got
rid of.
They were reluctant to resortto violenceor crime. How could
you possibly slit the throat ofsuch a tame sheep? Besides, they
were afraid ofbeing found out and sent to the guillotine. In any
case, the doctor, who was an ingenious young man, hit on a less
risky but equally effective method, the bizarre nature ofwhich
tired the young woman's romantic imagination.

26 Story ofa Madman
One night the whole house was aroused by dreadful screams
coming from the owner's flat. They forced open the door
and found the young woman in a terrible state, kneeling on the
floor, all dishevelled and shrieking, her shoulders covered in
red weals. Maurin was standing in front ofher, trembling and
quite bewildered. His speech was slurred like that ofa drunken
man and when pressed he was quite incapable of replying
coherently.
'I can't understandit,' he stammered, 'I didn't gonear her, she
suddenly started screaming.'
When Henriette had somewhat recovered her composure, she
herselfstammered something, giving herhusband a strangelook
full of a kind of frightened pity. The neighbours went away
greatly intrigued and even rather horrified, muttering to them-
selves that 'it wasn't at all clear'.
Similar scenes recurred regularly and the whole house was
soon living in a state ofconstant alarm. Every time the screams
wereheardandtheneighbours forcedtheirwayintotheflat, they
saw the same scene: Henriette was lying on the floorin astateof
collapse and trembling like someone who hadjust been merci-
lessly beaten, while Maurin was running round the room in a
state ofbewilderment, unable to offer any explanation.
The poor man became careworn. Every evening he would go
to bed trembling with the secret fear that he would be awakened
by Henriette's screams. He could not make head or tail ofher
strange fits: she would suddenly leap out of bed, hit herself
violently round the shoulders, tearher hair and roll about on the
floor without giving him the slightest idea as to the cause. He
concluded that she must be mad and he made a vow to himself
not to answer any questions and to keep this private drama to
himself. But his easygoing way of life had vanished with his
peace ofmind; he lost weight and looked pale and ill; his self-
satisfied smile had gone for good.
—
Mea — nwhile a rumour the source of which no one quite
knew was spreading in the neighbourhood that almost every
nightthepoormanwassubjecttoanattackoffeverduringwhich
he thrashed the unfortunate Henriette to within an inch ofher
life. His pale, stricken face and his evasive answers, as well as

Story ofa Madman 27
his sad and embarrassed demeanour, served only to confirm this
rumour.
FromthenonwardsMaurincouldnotdoanythingthatwasnot
interpretedastheactionofamadman. Assoon ashewentout, he
became the focus ofeveryone'seyes, monitoring his every move
and leading to strange interpretations ofevery word he uttered:
nobodymoreresemblesa madmanthansomeonewho isperfectly
sane. Ifhis foot slipped, ifhe looked up at the sky, ifhe blew his
nose, peoplewouldlaughandshrugtheirshouldersinpity. Street
urchins followed him about as though he were some strange
animal. At the end ofa month, everyone in Belleville knew that
Maurin was mad, stark, staring mad.
People would whisper extraordinary things about him. One
woman said she had met him on one of the outer boulevards
walking in the rain without a hat. It was quite true: it hadjust
been blown off his head by a gust of wind. Another woman
declared that he used to walk round his garden at midnightevery
night, carrying the sort ofcandle used in churches and chanting
the funeral service. This seemed quite terrifying. The truth was
thatthewomanhadseen Maurinononeoccasion usingalamp to
discoverthe slugs which wereeating his lettuces. Gradually they
pieced together a whole indictment of queer actions, an over-
whelming dossier of mad behaviour. Tongues were busily
wagging: 'Such a nice, kind, gentle man! What a shame! But
that's how it is!. . . All the same, we'll have to get him put away
in the end! . . . He's killing his poor dear wife, such a wonderful
well-bred little woman. . .'
They went to the police and one fine morning, after a dreadful
scene, played to perfection by Henriette, Maurin was bundled
into a cabon some pretextorotherand taken offto Charenton.*
When he reached there and realized what was happening, in his
ragehebita warder'sthumb rightoff. They puthim intoastrait-
jacket and dumped him among the violent madmen.
The young doctor had arranged for the poor man to be kept
shut up in a cell as long as possible. He claimed to have been
following Maurin's illnessand observingsuch strangesymptoms
in him that his colleagues thought they had discovered a new
form ot madness. Moreover, the whole ofBelleville was there to

28 Story ofa Madman
provide circumstantial details. Mental specialists conferred and
learned articles were written. The lovers slipped away to enjoy
their honeymoon in a leafy retreat in Touraine.
It took Henriette eleven months to become tired ofher young
doctor. Often, in between kisses, her thoughts had turned to her
poorwretchofahusbandscreaminginhismad-cell. Shebeganto
feelagrowingaffection forhimnowthatsuchadreadful fatehad
overtakenhimandhewasnolongerabletogooutandlookathis
lettuces or take his stroll along the fortifications. Women with
greycat'seyestendtobesubjecttosuchwhims. Sheleftherlover
and went post-haste to Charenton, determined to make a full
confession.
She had often felt surprised that the doctors were taking so
longtodiscoverthatMaurinwasnotmad. Atbest, shehadrelied
on enjoying only a few weeks' freedom. When they took her to
her husband she.saw in a shadowy corner ofhis cell a pale, thin,
filthy, animal-like figure, more ghost than man, who stood up
and looked at her with eyes full ofmindless, imbecilic horror.
The poor man failed to recognize her. And as she stood there in
terror, he began to sway to and fro with an idiotic laugh.
Suddenly he burst out sobbing and stammered: 'I can't under-
stand it, I can't understand it. . . I didn't go near her!. . .'
Then he hurled himselfflat on the floor, exactly as Henriette
had done, and kept hitting himself on the shoulders as he
screamed and rolled around on the ground.
'He does that trick twenty times a day,' said the warder who
had accompanied the young woman.
With her teeth chattering with fear and almost fainting, she
covered her eyes to avoid looking at the man she had reduced to
this brute beast.
Maurin was mad.

BIG MICHU
One afternoon, during the four o'clock recess, Big Michu took
me aside in a corner ofthe playground. He looked serious and
that made me feel rather scared because Big Michu was sturdy
and broad-shouldered, with enormous fists, and I should have
hated to have him as an enemy.
'Listen to me,' he said, in his broad country accent which he
hadneverquitesucceededinlosing: 'Tell me, areyoupreparedto
join in?'
I didn't hesitate for a moment. 'Yes,' I said, pleased to be able
tojoin in something with Big Michu. Then he explained to me
what the plot was. The fact that he was letting me into his
confidencegavemeathrillofdelightthatI'veneverfeltsince. At
lastI was going to keep asecret and wageabattle; I was goingto
participateinlife'swildadventuresandindeeditwasthesneaking
fear I felt at the idea that I was becoming compromised in this
way that contributed greatly to the thrill of becoming his
accomplice.
So Ilistenedinsilentadmirationasheunfoldedhisplan. Hedid
so in a somewhat abrupt tone, like an officer addressing a
conscript whose keenness and initiative are rather suspect. How-
ever, myeagernessandtheecstaticlookofenthusiasmthatI must
have shown while listening must eventually have given him a
better opinion ofme.
Asthesecondbell rangand wewenttolineuptogoback toour
classrooms: 'It's agreed, then,' he whispered to me. 'You'lljoin in.
And you won't be afraid, will you? You'll not let us down?'
'Oh no, you'll sec ... I promise.'
His grey eyes looked me straight in the face, with all the
gravity ofa grown-up man and he added:
'Otherwise, you know, I won't give you a hiding but I'll let
everyone know that you're a traitor and nobody will ever want
to speak to you again.'
I can still recall the strange effect that this threat had on me. It
made me feci tremendously brave. 'All right,' I said to myself. 'I
don't mind ifthey give me 2000 lines. Tin damned ifI let Michu
down.' I waited tor dinner-time to come with great excitement

30 Big Michu
and impatience: our revolt was due to break out that evening in
the dining-hall.
Big Michu came from theVar.* His fatherwasasmall peasant
farmer who had taken up arms during the insurrection against
NapoleonIll'scoupd'etatin 1851. Duringthefightinghehadbeen
left for dead and had then gone underground. When he re-
emerged, he had been left in peace, but the authorities, the big-
wigs and all those of independent means henceforth never
referred to him as anything but 'that thug Michu'.
This 'thug', this decent, illiterate man, sent his son to thelycee
in Aix, doubtless wanting him to have the education needed to
bring about the triumph ofthe cause which he himselfhad tried
to defend by force ofarms. At school we had a vague idea ofall
this which made us look on Michu as a very formidable person.
BigMichuwasinany casemucholderthanwewere, butatthe
ageofnearly eighteen he was still only in the third form. He had
one ofthose inflexible minds which lack imagination and learn
slowly; butonceheknew something, heknew it thoroughly and
for good. Immensely strong and built like an oak, he ruled the
roostintheplayground, although he was extremely gentle. Only
oncedid I ever seehim lose his temper, when he nearly throttled
an assistant master who was telling us that republicans were all
thieves. He was nearly expelled.
It wasnotuntil later, whenlooking back at my recollectionsof
my schoolmate, that I came to understand his combination of
strength and gentleness: his fathermusthavetaught himearlyon
to be a man.
Not the leastofoursurprises was thatBig Michu liked school.
There was only one thing that plagued him, although he never
dared to mention it: he was perpetually hungry.
I can't recall anyone with an appetitelike his. Proud though he
was, hewould still sometimes invent humiliating stories in order
to scrounge a piece ofbread, a lunch or a dinner. He had been
brought up in the mountain air ofthe Maures* and still suffered

Big Michu 31
more cruelly from the meagre school fare than the rest of us.
The food was one ofour main topics ofconversation in the
welcome shade ofthe long wall ofour playground. Most ofus
tended tobefussy and I particularly rememberacertaincod with
meltedbutterandharicotbeansinwhitesaucewhichhadbecome
the special subject of general loathing. On the days these ap-
peared, the discussion was never-ending. Not wishing to appear
different, Big Michu would join in the chorus of complaints,
although he would willingly have guzzled all the six portions
served at each table.
Almost the only thing that Big Michu complained about was
the amount offood. A further cause ofexasperation was that he
happenedtohavebeen placed attheendofatablebesidea young
whipper-snapperofanassistantmaster, whoallowedustosmoke
during our walks. Now the rule at mealtimes was that masters
wereallowedadoubleportionsothatwhensausageswereserved
you could see poor Michu casting hungry eyes on the pair of
sausages lying side-by-side on the assistant's plate.
'I'm twice his size,' hesaid to meoneday, 'andhe has twice as
muchtoeatasme. Andhedoesn'tleaveasinglescrap. Hedoesn't
find two sausages too much!'
Sothebigboyshaddecidedthatweshouldfinallyriseinrevolt
against the cod with melted butter and the beans in white sauce.
The conspirators naturally asked Big Michu to be their leader.
The young gentlemen's plan was heroically simple: it would,
they thought, be sufficient to go on hunger strike and refuse to
eat any food until the Principal should announce, officially, that
the school meals would be improved. Michu's acceptance ofthis
plan was one ofthe finest and most courageous acts ofunselfish-
ness that I have ever met. He agreed to be the leader of the
movement with the quiet heroism ofan ancient Roman sacrific-
ing himselffor the republic.
Remember that he could not have cared less about the disap-
pearance ofthe cod and beans from the menu; all he wanted was
to have moreofthem, as muchashecouldeat! And the last straw
was that he was being asked to go without food altogether. He
confessed to me later that all those republican virtues taught him

32 Big Michu
—
by his father solidarity, the individual sacrifice of one's own
—
interests to those ofthe community had never been put to a
sterner test. —
That eve — ning in the dining-hall it was the cod and melted
butter day the strike began with a really splendid tutti. Only
breadwastobeeaten. Whenthedishes wereserved, we leftthem
untouched and ate our dry bread. And it all took place with due
solemnity, without any ofour normal whispered conversations.
Only some ofthe younger ones laughed.
Big Michu was superb. That evening he even went so far as
not to eat his bread. With his elbows on the table, he was con-
temptuously watching the little assistant master, who was
greedily stuffing himself.
MeanwhiletheseniormasterhadgoneofftofetchthePrincipal
who now came storming into the dining-hall and delivered a
vigorous harangue, demanding to know what was wrong with
the meal, which he tasted himselfand pronounced exquisite.
Then Big Michu stood up.
'Thetruthis, sir, thatthecod hasgoneoffand wejustcan'tget
it down.'
'That's odd,' exclaimed the assistant, without giving the Prin-
cipal time to reply. 'Theother evening you ate almost the whole
lot on your own, didn't you?'
BigMichuwentveryred. Thatevening, theymerelysentusto
bed saying thatno doubt we would think betterofit tomorrow.
Next day and the next, Big Michu was awe-inspiring. The
assistant's words hadstung himto thequick. Heurgedusonand
said we would be cowardly to give in. He was determined now,
asamatterofpersonal pride, toprovetous that, when it cameto
the point, he could go without food.
It was real torture. All those ofus who could manage it were
hiding chocolate, jars ofjam and even ham or sausage in our
deskssothatwemightatleasthavesomethingtogowithourdry
bread which we were stuffing into our pockets. But Big Michu,
whohadnorelativesintownandinanycaserefusedtoindulgein
such luxuries, stuck steadfastly to the few crusts ofbread which
he managed to collect.

Big Michu 33
On the second day, when the Principal announced that since
thepupils wereso stubbornasnottotouchthefoodprovided, he
was going to refuse to issue any more bread, open revolt broke
out at lunchtime. It was beans and white sauce day.
Big Michu, whose mind must have become confused by his
agonizing pangs ofhunger, suddenly leapt to his feet, took hold
ofthe plate oftheassistant master, who was greedily tucking in,
nodoubttoprovokeus, threwitintothemiddleoftheroom and
started loudly singing the 'Marseillaise'. It was like a spark in a
keg ofgunpowder. Platesandglassesandbottleshurtled from all
sideswhiletheassistantshastilyscrambledthroughthewreckage,
leaving us in complete control ofthe dining-hall. As he rapidly
took to his heels, our whipper-snapper received a plate ofbeans,
with their white sauce, fairly and squarely between his shoulder-
blades, leaving him with a large white collar-band round his
neck.
The question now was how to fortify our stronghold. Big
Michu was appointed commanding general. He had the tables
carried up and piled in front ofthe doors. I well remember that
we had all picked our knives up and were holding them in our
hands. And the 'Marseillaise' thundered on: revolt was turning
into a revolution. Fortunately, they decided to leave us to our
own devices for a good three hours while they went offto fetch
the police. Those three rowdy hours were enough to cool us
down.
At the end ofthe dining-hall there were two large windows
overlookingtheplayground. Themoretimorousofus, scaredby
thelong reprievethatwewerebeinggranted, quietlyopened one
ofthe windows and slipped out. Gradually they were followed
by others. Soon Big Michu was left with less than a dozen
insurgents to support him. Gruffly he said to them: 'Offyou go
andjoin the others, there's no need for more than one ofus to
take the blame.'
Then, seeing that I was hesitating, he spoke to me directly:
'I'm letting you offyour promise, all right?'
When theauthorities broke downoneofthedoors, they found
Michu onhisown, quietly sittingontheendofatableamidstthe
broken crockery. He was sent home in disgrace that very same
evening. As for the rest ofus, we didn't get much benefit from
our revolt. They took care not to serve cod or beans tor a few

34 Big Michu
weeks. They then madetheir reappearance, but this time the cod
was in a white sauce and the beans in melted butter.
Long afterwards I met Michu again. He had not been able to
continuehisstudiesandhewasfarmingthefewbitsoflandleftto
him by his father on his death.
Td've made a rotten lawyeror doctor,' he said, 'becauseI was
a bit thick. I'm better as a farmer. It suits me. All the same, you
certainly did let me down, all ofyou. And to think that I was
really mad on cod and beans!'

THE ATTACK ON THE MILL
I
Itwas a lovely summer's evening and old Merlier's mill was in
festivemood. Inthecourtyardthreetableshadbeenplacedendto
end, toawaittheguests. Everyoneinthedistrictknewthattoday
Merlier's daughter Franchise was to be betrothed to Dominique,
a young man who, although often accused ofbeing rather idle,
was so good-looking that the eyes ofall the women for miles
around would light up each time they saw him.
Set in the very heart ofRocreuse, where the main road makes
a bend, Merlier's old mill was as blithe as a lark. The village
consisted of the one street, lined on each side by a row of
tumbledowncottages; butatthebendtherewerebroad meadows
and tall trees following the course ofthe Morelle and forming
a magnificently shady corner at the head of the valley. There
wasno morecharming beautyspotinthewholeofLorraine. On
both sides ofthe valley there were dense woods ofcentury-old
forest giants sloping gently upwards to the skyline in a sea of
greenery while towards the south the marvellously fertile plain,
cutupintohedge-linedfields, stretchedoutas farastheeyecould
see. But, apart from its greenness, the great charm ofRocreuse
lay in its refreshing coolness during the hottest days ofJuly and
August. As the Morelle came down from the Gagny woods it
seemed to bring with it the chill of the leafy boughs beneath
which it had flowed for mile after mile; and it brought with it,
too, the rustle offorest glades. Nor was this the only source of
coolness: all kinds ofbabbling brooks flowed gaily through the
undergrowth and atevery step you took a new stream seemed to
be welling up. As you walked through the narrow paths you
could feel underground lakes surfacing beneath the moss and
taking advantage ofevery little gap at the roots ofthe trees or
between rocks to gush out in streams ofcrystal-clear water; and
so numerous and so loud were the whispering voices of these
springs that they drowned the chirping ofthe bullfinches. It was
like being in a magic park surrounded by hundreds of tiny
waterfalls.

36 The Attack on the Mill
Down below there were water-meadows on which the tall
sweet chestnut trees cast their giant shadows and along which
long rows ofpoplars formed their rustling screens. An avenueof
enormous plane trees led up through the fields to the old ruined
castle ofGagny. In this perpetually well-watered spot, grasses of
all sorts shot up to astounding heights. Between the wooded
slopes, it was like a park in which the meadows were the lawns
and the giant trees formed colossal round flowerbeds. When the
midday sun was at its height the shadows took on a bluish tinge,
and the grass lay drowsing in the scorching summer heat; but a
cold shiver still ran through the undergrowth.
And in the heart ofthis lush greenery there could be heard the
cheerful clatter ofold Merlier's mill. Half sunk in the Morelle
which at this point formed a limpid pool, theold building, made
ofwood and plaster, seemed to date from thebeginning oftime.
Therewasasmall mill-raceandthewaterfell several yardsdown
on to the mill-wheel which creaked asitturned, wheezing likean
asthmaticoldservantwhohasgrownoldinherfaithful serviceto
thefamily. When peopleadvisedold Merliertogetanewone, he
would shake his head and say that a younger wheel would be
lazier and wouldn't know the work so well; and he would repair
the old one with any makeshift materials he could lay hands on,
stavesofwine-barrels, pieces ofrusty iron and oddbitsofleador
zinc. This treatment made the wheel, in fact, look all the more
cheerful, with its new queer shape and its plumes ofgrass and
moss. When the silvery water cascaded down on to it, it seemed
to be covered in sparklingjewels and its quaint old framework
spun round under a glittering string ofpearls.
The part ofthe mill which stood halfsunk in the Morelle had
the look ofsome primitive ark left stranded by the passage ot
time. More than half of the ramshackle old building was sup-
portedonpiles. Thewatercameinunderthefloorandtherewere
deeppoolsintheriver,wellknown throughoutthedistrictforthe
eels and crayfish that could be caught there. Underneath the fall,
the mill-pond was as limpid as a sheet of glass and when the
wheelwasnotstirringitupintofoam, youcouldseeshoalsotbig
fish swimming slowly round like squads of manoeuvring
soldiers. A broken-down staircase led down to a boat moored to
a pile in the river; a wooden gallery with irregular window-
openings spanned the space above the mill-wheel. The building

The Attack on the Mill 37
was, in fact, a conglomeration oftiny recesses, low walls, beams
and roofs built on as afterthoughts, creating the impression of
some old dismantled citadel. But ivy had grown up and all sorts
ofclimbing plants had covered over the larger cracks in the old
house with a green mantle. Young ladies would always stop to
sketch old Merlier's mill.
On thesidefacing theroad, thebuilding was much moresolid.
A stone gateway led into the main courtyard, with stables and
shedsoneitherside. Nexttoawell therestoodanenormouselm,
shading halfthe yard. At the farend you could see the four first-
floor windows of the house, with a dovecote above. Old
Merlier's only concession to publicopinion was to havethe front
ofthehousewhitewashedeverytenyears; thishadjustbeendone
and in the light of the midday sun, the villagers were quite
dazzled by its whiteness.
Old Merlier had been mayor ofRocreuse for the last twenty
years. People admired him for the way in which he had become
so rich: he had built up his wealth sou by sou and it was now
thoughttoamounttosomeeighty thousand francs. Whenhehad
married Madeleine Guillard, with the mill as her dowry, he had
himselfpossessed not much more than his two strong arms. But
Madeleinehadneverregrettedherchoice. Now hiswifewasdead
and he had been left a widower with a daughter, Franqoise.
Doubtless he could by this time have relaxed and let the mill-
wheel drift round clogged with moss; but he would have been
boredandtheold housewould haveseemeddead, sohestill kept
on working, forpleasure. Merlierwasnow an old man, tall, with
alongtaciturnface, whoneverlaughedbutwhoseemedfullofan
innerjoy. He had been elected mayor because ofhis money and
also because he was superb at officiating at weddings.
Franchise hadjust celebrated her eighteenth birthday. She was
considered as one ofthe local beauties because she was delicate.
Until the age offifteen she had even been thought ugly and the
villagers could never understand how such a sturdy coupleas the
Merliers could possibly have produced such a weakling of a
daughter. However, at the age offifteen, while still remaining
delicate she had suddenly blossomed out and her tiny face was as
pretty as a picture. Her hair was black and she had dark eyes, but
with a peaches-and-cream complexion, lips that were always
laughing, dimpled cheeks and a white forehead that looked like a

38 The Attack on the Mill
halo ofsunshine. Although hardly plump by country standards,
she was not thin either, far from it; people merely thought that
shecould nothave managedtolifta bagofflour; butasshegrew
older, she became rounder and she had ended up as plump and
juicy as a young partridge. However, her father's dourness had
madeher from an early ageinto a sensible, self-reliant girl. Ifshe
was always laughing, it was in order to please other people; at
heart, she was rather an earnest sort ofgirl.
Shewas, ofcourse, muchcourtedinthedistrict, evenmorefor
her money than for her pleasant nature. Her final choice had
recently scandalized everyone. On the other side ofthe Morelle,
there lived a tall young man called Dominique Penquet. He was
not from Rocreuse; ten years before, he had come down from
Belgium, having inherited a small property from an uncle,
situatedrightontheedgeoftheforestofGagny, exactlyopposite
the mill and only a few gunshots away. He said that he was
intending to sell up the property and go back home. However, it
would seem that he had found the district to his liking for he
stayedon. Hefarmedhislittleplot, grew a few vegetablesforhis
own table and went fishing and shooting. On a number of
occasions he was nearly caught by gamekeepers and sent up
before the magistrates. Such an independent way of life, from
sourceswhichthelocals foundatriflemysterious, finallybrought
him a bad reputation. People referred to him as something ofa
poacher. Be that as it might, he was certainly lazy, for he would
be found sleeping inthe grass attimes when heshouldhavebeen
working. He lived in a sort ofa shack tucked away amongst the
lasttrees attheedgeofthewoodand thishardly seemeda proper
place fora respectable young man to live. Theold women ofthe
village would not have been surprised to learn that he had
dealings with the wolves which prowled round the ruins ofthe
oldcastle. Butthegirls wouldsometimesventureto springtohis
defence because this young man was a superb specimen of
manhood, tall and athletic, very white-skinned, with blond hair
and beard that gleamed like gold in the sunshine. And then, one
fineday, FranchisehadtoldoldMerlierthatshelovedDominique
and would never marry anyone else.
You canimaginethatoldMerlierfeltthathe'dbeen pole-axed.
However, as was his wont, he said nothing. Helooked thought-
ful and his eyes had lost their normal cheerful glint. For a whole

The Attack on the Mill 39
week, they sulked; she too had a solemn look onher faceandold
Merlier was plagued by a disturbing thought: how on earth had
this rogue of a poacher managed to cast his spell over his
daughter? Dominique had never visited the mill. The millerkept
his eyes open and caught a glimpse ofthe young swain lying in
the grass on the opposite bank ofthe Morelle, pretending to be
asleep. Franchise could have seen him from her window. The
conclusion was obvious: they must have fallen in love while
making sheeps' eyes at each other across the mill-wheel.
Meanwhile, another week went by. Franchisewaslooking more
and more solemn. Old Merlier was as tight-lipped as ever. Then
one evening, without saying a word, Merlier himself brought
DominiqueintotheroomwhereFranchisewasjustlayingthetable.
Sheshowedno surpriseand merelylaidanotherplace; butthelittle
dimples in her face had reappeared and her laughter as well. That
morning, old Merlier had gone offto Dominique's shack on the
edge ofthe forest and the two men had spent three hours talking
behind closed doors and windows. Nobody ever found out what
they might have said to each other. The only certainty was that
when old Merlier came out he was already treating Dominique as
hisson. Nodoubt, inthis idleyoung fellow-me-lad whowouldlie
in the grass making girls fall in love with him, the old man had
found what he had been looking for: a decent young man.
There was much tongue-wagging in Rocreuse. The old
women talked at length on their doorsteps of old Merlier's
madness in introducing this ne'er-do-well into his house like that;
but he let them talk. Perhaps he'd remembered his own marriage.
When he'd wedded Madeleine and her mill, he himselfhadn't had
two pennies to rub together either; but that hadn't prevented him
from being a good husband. Moreover, Dominique put a stop to
all the gossip by buckling down to work with an energy that
astounded everyone. It so happened that the mill-hand had just
been called up for military service and Dominique refused to
listen to any suggestion that Merlier should take on another one.
He carried the sacks, drove the cart and struggled with the old
mill-wheel when it showed signs ofgiving up the ghost, and all
with such vim and vigour that it was a pleasure to come and
watch him. Old Merlier chuckled to himself. He was very proud
at having detected this young man's hidden qualities. And there's
nothing like love to give voung men a boost.

40 The Attack on the Mill
Amidst all this hard work, Dominique and Franchise walked
about idolizing each other. They might not have saidvery much
but all the time they kept exchanging fond smiles. Till now,
Merlier had made no mention of marriage and they both
respected his silence and awaited the old man's decision. Finally,
one day towards the middle ofJuly, he had three tables set up in
the courtyard under the old elm tree and invited his friends in
Rocreusetocomeandhaveadrinkwith him that evening. When
the yard was full ofpeople with their glasses in their hands, old
Merlier raised his own and said:
'I've great pleasure in announcing that Franqoise will be
marryingthisyoungfellowhereinonemonth'stime, onthefeast
ofSt Louis.'
Everyone enthusiastically drank the young couple's health;
they were all laughing and smiling. Then old Merlier raised his
voice and spoke again:
'Nowkissthebride, Dominique, that'swhatyou'vegottodo!'
And so they kissed each other, all red in the face, while
everyonelaughed even moreloudly. Itwas a real celebrationand
a whole barrel ofwine was drunk. Then, when only the close
friends were left behind, they all chatted together more quietly.
Nighthad fallen, clearand fullofstars. Dominiqueand Franchise
sat silently side by side on a bench while one old peasant started
talkingaboutthewarwhichtheEmperorhadjustdeclaredonthe
Prussians. All the lads ofthe village had already been called up.
Troops had still been going through Rocreuse the day before.
Hard knocks were going to be exchanged.
'Ahwell,'saidoldMerlierwiththeselfishnessofanyhappyman.
'Dominique'saforeigner, hewon'thavetofight
. . .
AndifthePrus-
siansevergetasfarashere, he'llbeon thespottodefendhiswife.'
The idea that the Prussians could possibly come to Rocreuse
seemednothingmorethanajoke. TheFrenchweregoingtogive
them a thrashing and it would all be over in next to no time.
'I'vealreadyseenthem,' said theoldpeasantinahollow voice,
'I've already seen them.'
Nobody spoke. Then they all clinked glasses and drank again.
Franchise and Dominique had not heard a single word; they had
gentlycaughtholdofeachother'shands, behindthebenchsothat
no one could see, and it seemed such a mce thing to do that thev
just sat there gazing blankly into the darkness.

The Attack on the Mill 41
What a lovely warm nightit was! In theirhouseson both sides
ofthe road the villagers were quietly dropping offto sleep like
children. Theonlysoundwasthecrowingofsomecockwhohad
woken up too soon. The cooler air was drifting gently down
from the thick woods nearby, caressing the roofs ofthe cottages
asitpassed slowlyoverthevillage. Thedarkpensiveshadowson
themeadowsassumedmajesticand mysteriousproportionswhile
thecoolbrooksandspringsgushinginthegloomseemedlikethe
rhythmic breathing ofthe drowsing countryside. Every so often
the sleepy old mill-wheel seemed to rouse itselffrom its dreams
like a sleeping watchdog barking as it stirs; then there were
creakingsandclatteringsasit communedwithitself, lulledbythe
rippling Morelle which spread out and murmured likesoftorgan
music. Never had so charming a little beauty spot bathed so
happily in the peace ofnature.
One month laterto the day, in facton theeveofthefestival of
St Louis, Rocreuse was living in the shadow of terror. The
PrussianshaddefeatedtheEmperorand, in forced marches, were
rapidly advancing towards the village. For the past week, the
peoplepassing through along themain roadhad been warning of
their progress: 'They've reached Lormiere; they've reached
Novelles'; and whenthey weretoldhowswifttheiradvancewas,
the villagers ofRocreuse expected to see the Prussians sweeping
down from the Gagny woods and when they did not appear, it
was even more frightening. They would swoop down on the
village in the night and slit everyone's throat.
The previous night, shortly before dawn, there had been an
alert. Theinhabitants had been woken upbyagreatnoiseofmen
on the road. The women were already flinging themselves on
their knees and making thesignofthecrosswhen, as they peered
cautiously out oftheir windows, the villagers recognized the red
trousers ofa detachment of French soldiers. The captain com-
manding them hadimmediatelyaskedtoseethemayorand, after
a word with old Merlier, he had decided to remain down at the
mill.
Day dawned bright and clear; by noon it would be hot. The
woods were bathed in a golden light and in the distance a pale

42 The Attack on the Mill
hazedrifted up from the meadows. Theneat littlevillageawoke,
cool and pretty, and with its streams and springs the whole
countrysidelookedlikeadaintybunchofflowerssparklinginthe
dew. But this lovely day brought no answering smile to the
villagers' lips. They hadjust seen the captain walking round the
mill, looking at the nearby houses, crossing over to the other
bank ofthe Morelle and studying the lie ofthe land through his
field-glasses; old Merlier, who was accompanying him, seemed
to be supplying him with information. Then the captain had
posted soldiers behind walls and trees and down in hollows. The
main body oftroops were bivouacking in the courtyard ofthe
mill. Wouldtherebefighting?Whenold Merliercameback, they
questioned him. He nodded without speaking: yes, they were
going to fight.
FranqoiseandDominiquewereinthecourtyardwatchinghim.
Finally he took his pipe out ofhis mouth and said simply:
'It's a sad day for you, my loves. There'll be no wedding for
you tomorrow!'
Dominique sat scowling with clenched lips, occasionally
springing to his feet to peer up towards the Gagny woods, as
though trying to see the Prussians arriving. Looking pale and
solemn, Franqoise was going to and fro, supplying the soldiers
with the things they needed. They had set up a makeshift field-
kitchen in a corner of the courtyard and were joking as they
waited to eat.
Meanwhile the captain seemed delighted. He had visited the
bedrooms and the large main room ofthe mill overlooking the
Now
river. he sat chatting to Merlier beside the well.
'You'vegotareal fortresshere,' hesaid. 'Wecancertainlyhold
out until this evening. Those rogues are behind time. They
. .
should have been here by now.'
The miller looked grim: he could see his mill going up in
flames. But he made no comment, considering that it was
pointless to do so. When he eventually spoke, it was merely to
say:
'You ought to hide the boat behind the mill-wheel. There's a
small space for it there. It may come in useful.'
The captain gave an order. He was a good-looking man of
about forty, tall, with a pleasant expression. The sight of
Franqoise and Dominique seemed to give him pleasure. He now

The Attack on the Mill 43
turned his attention towards them, as if he had forgotten the
impending fight. His eyes kept following Franqoise and it was
plain that he found her attractive. Then he turned to Dominique
and said sharply:
'So you're not in the army, young man?'
'I'm not French,' Dominique replied.
This explanation did not seem to meet with the captain's full
approval. He gave a wink and half-smiled: Franchise was more
agreeablecompany than a gun-barrel. Seeing his grin, theyoung
man added:
'I'mnotFrenchbutI canputabulletintoamanatfivehundred
yards. . . Take a look at my gun over there, behind you.'
'You may find some use for it,' the captain replied simply.
Franchise came up to Dominique, trembling slightly, andheld
out her hands to him, as ifseeking his protection, whereupon,
without paying any attention to the people around them, he
reached out and gripped them tightly. The captain gave another
smile but said nothing. He remained sitting with his sword
between his legs, gazing into the distance, seemingly occupied
with his own thoughts.
It was now already ten o'clock and beginning to be very hot
and sultry. Nothing was stirring. In the courtyard the soldiers
had started eating. Nota sound camefrom the village, wherethe
inhabitants had all barricaded their house doors and windows. In
the street, a solitary dog stood howling. From the neighbouring
woods and meadows, overcome by the heat, an endless distant
murmurcamewaftinginonthestiflingair. A cuckoocalledtoits
mate. Then once more deep silence reigned.
Suddenly, in the drowsy air, a shot rang out. The captain
sprang to his feet, the soldiers dropped their half-empty bowls and
ina fewsecondseveryonewas athis postandthemill was manned
on every floor. Meanwhile the captain had run out on to the road
but was unabletoseeanything; itstretchedout, whiteand deserted
in both directions. A second shot rang out and still there was
nothing to see, not even a shadow. The captain swung round and
lookeduptowardsGagny. Hewasatlastrewardedbythesightofa
little puffofsmoke drifting up, likegossamer, between a couple o\
trees. The wood itselfwas still dark and quiet.
'The scoundrels have taken to the forest,' he muttered to
himself. 'They must know we're here.'

44 The Attack on the Mill
The shooting continued more heavily between the French
soldiers posted round the mill and the Prussians concealed in the
wood. The bullets kept whistling over the Morelle but without
causing any casualties to either side. The firing became sporadic;
soldierswereshootingfrombehindeverybushbutstilltherewas
nothing to be seen except little puffs ofsmoke drifting lazily in
the air. This went on for a couple of hours. The captain was
hummingnonchalantlytohimself. FranqoiseandDominiquehad
remained in the courtyard and were standing on tiptoe peering
over a low wall. In particular they were watching a little soldier
who had been stationedon thebank oftheMorelle. Lying onhis
stomach behind the hulk ofan old boat, he would take a quick
look, fire and then crawl into a trench a little further back to
reload. His movements were so precise and quick and looked so
comical that they found themselves smiling as they watched. He
must have caught a glimpse of the head of one of the enemy
because hejumped to his feet and took aim; but before he could
pull the trigger, he uttered a cry, spun round and dropped back
into the trench where for a brief moment his legs jerked con-
vulsively like those ofa chicken whose head has been chopped
off. Hehadbeenstruckbyabulletfullinthechest. Itwasthefirst
casualty. Instinctively, Franchise reached out and nervously
gripped Dominique's hand.
'Don't stand there,' called the captain, 'they're shooting this
way.'
And indeed at that moment a sharp crack came from the
direction of the old elm and a piece of branch came twirling
down. However, in theiranxietytoseewhat washappening, the
couple were unable to tear themselves away. Suddenly, at the
edgeoftheforest, a Prussiansoldierappeared from behindatree,
as though from the wingsofastage, nailing theairwithhis arms
as he fell on his back. And then once again nothing stirred; the
two dead men seemed to be lying asleep in the bright sun-
shine and the landscape still slumbered on, deserted. Even the
crackle ofgunfire had ceased. Only the Morelle went babbling
gently on.
Old Merlier looked at the captain in surprise, as though
enquiring ifit was all over.
'Herecomes thebig push,' thelattersaid in alow voice. 'Look
out and keep out ofthe way.'

The Attack on the Mill 45
Beforehehad finished speaking, therewasa terrifyingburstof
gunfire. The old elm seemed on the point oftoppling over as a
shower ofleaves swirled down into the courtyard: the Prussians
had aimed too high. Dominique dragged Franchiseaway, almost
carrying her in his arms, while Merlier followed, shouting:
'Go down to the small cellar, it's got very thick walls.'
But they did not heed him and went instead into the main
room where a dozen soldiers were waiting silently, peering
through thegapsintheclosedshutters. Thecaptainhadremained
alone in the courtyard, crouching down behind the low wall
while the bursts of firing continued unabated. The soldiers
whom he had posted outside were giving ground very slowly
but as the enemy forced them from their cover, they crawled
back one by oneinto the mill: theirorders were to gain timeand
not expose themselves, so that the Prussians should not discover
the size ofthe force opposing them. Another hour went by and
when asergeantcameinandannouncedthattherewereonlytwo
or three men left outside, the officer pulled out his watch and
muttered:
'Half-past two Well, we must hang on for four hours
. . .
longer.'
He ordered the main gate ofthe courtyard to be closed and
everything was made ready for a determined resistance. As the
Prussians wereontheoppositebankoftheMorelle, therewasno
immediate danger ofattack. In fact, there was a bridge about a
mileaway butthey wereno doubtignorant ofits existenceandit
was hardly likely that they would attempt to ford the river. So
thecaptain merelyorderedacarefulwatchtobekepton theroad:
thePrussians' maineffortwouldcomefromthewoodsacrossthe
river.
Oncemorethefiringhaddieddown. Inthebrightsunshinethe
mill seemed dead. The shutters were all closed and not a sound
camefrom inside. However, the Prussians weregradually begin-
ningtoshowthemselvesattheedgeoftheGagnywoods, poking
their heads out and growing bolder. In the mill, as a number of
soldiers were taking aim, the captain shouted:
'No, don't fire yet. Wait till they're closer.'
ThePrussiansweremovingforwardverycautiously, keepinga
wary eye on the mill. This silent, gloomy, ivy-covered building
made them uneasy. However, they still kept coming on. When

46 The Attack on the Mill
there were about fifty of them in the meadow opposite, the
officer shouted one word:
'Fire!'
There was an earsplitting volley of gunfire, followed by
isolated shots. Franchise started trembling and involuntarily put
herhands to her ears. Dominique was standing watching behind
the soldiers and when the smoke had partly cleared he could see
threePrussianslyingontheirbacksinthemiddleofthemeadow.
The others quickly flung themselves behind the willows and
poplars. The siege began.
For more than an hour the old mill was riddled by a hail of
bullets. When they hit stonework, they were flattened and fell
backintothewater, buttheyburiedthemselvesinthewoodwork
with a dull thud. Now and again a creaking sound showed that
the mill-wheel had been hit. The soldiers inside the mill were
husbanding their ammunition and firing only when they had a
target. Thecaptainkeptconsultinghis watchand asabulletcame
through one ofthe shutters and lodged itselfin the ceiling, he
muttered:
'Four o'clock. We'll never be able to hold out.'
And indeed, under the extremely heavy fire, the old mill was
graduallybeingshottopieces. Oneoftheshutters felloffintothe
water and had to be replaced by a mattress. Old Merlier kept
continually exposing himself to see what damage was being
inflicted on his mill-wheel, whose creaks and groans were going
straight to his heart. The poor old wheel was finished; it could
neverberepairedagainnow. DominiquehadbeggedFranchiseto
take shelter but she insisted on staying with him and had sat
down behind a large oak cupboard for protection. But then a
bulletstruckthecupboardwitharesoundingthudandDominique
placed himselfin front ofher. Although he had not yet fired a
shot, he was holding his gun in his hand; he could not get to the
window because the space was completely occupied by soldiers.
At every shot, the floor quivered.
'Look out! Look out!' the captain yelled suddenly.
HehadjustglimpsedadarkmassofPrussiansoldiersdebouch-
ing from the woods. They immediately opened up heavy and
sustained fire: it was as if a whirlwind had struck the mill.
Another shutter fell offand bullets came shooting through the
gaping hole. Two soldiers tumbled tothefloor. Oneofthem did

The Attack on the Mill 47
notmove;hewasbundledintoacorneroutoftheway. Theother
one was writhing in agony and begging someone to put him out
ofhis misery; nobody paid any attention to him, for the hail of
bullets wasstillcontinuingandeveryonewastryingtotakecover
and find a loophole to return the fire. A third soldier was
wounded; he did not say anything but slipped down beside a
table, with wild, staring eyes. Shocked and horrified at the sight
ofthese dead men, Francpise had automatically pushed her chair
awayandsatdownonthefloorwhereshefeltshewouldbesafer.
Meanwhile they had brought along every mattress in the house
and succeeded in half-blocking the window again. The room
was becoming littered with wreckage, broken weapons and
shattered pieces offurniture.
'Five o'clock,' said the captain. 'Hang on, men. They'll be
trying to get across the river.'
At that moment, Franchise uttered a cry. A ricocheting bullet
had just grazed her forehead and a few drops of blood were
trickling down her face. Dominique looked across at her; then,
walking over to the window, he fired his first shot and kept on
firing. He loaded and fired, loaded and fired, paying not the
slightestattentiontowhatwastakingplacearoundhim, although
now and again he would glance over towards Franchise. He was
notfiring hurriedly, however; hewas taking very deliberateaim.
ThePrussianswerenowcreepingalongthrough thepoplarsinan
attempt to cross the Morelle, as the captain had predicted; but as
soon as one ofthem ventured into the open, he would fall to the
ground with a bullet from Dominique's gun in his skull. The
captain was amazed at the young man's prowess and compli-
mented him on it, saying that he would be delighted to have
many more marksmen like him in his company. Dominique did
nothearhim. A bulletgrazed his shoulder; anotheronescratched
his arm. He still went on firing.
TwomoreFrenchsoldiers weredead. Themattresseshadbeen
cut into shreds and were no longer of any use to block the
windows. It seemed as ifone final burst ofgunfire would enable
the Prussians to capture the mill. The position was no longer
tenable. However, the captain kept saying:
'Hold on. Just halfan hour more.'
. .
Now he was counting the minutes; having promised his
superiors to hold the enemy up until evening, he was not

48 The Attack on the Mill
prepared to give one inch of territory before the time when
he had decided to withdraw. He had still retained his affa-
bility, continually reassuring Franchise with a smile. He had
picked up one of his dead soldiers' rifles and was firing
himself.
Only four French soldiers were left in the room. The Prus-
sians were massing on the opposite bank of the Morelle and
it was plain that they were on the point of crossing the
river. A few more minutes went by. The captain was still
doggedly refusing to order the retreat when the sergeant ran in
shouting:
'They're coming up the road! They're going to take us in
the rear!'
The Prussians must have discovered the bridge. The captain
pulled out his watch.
'Just five minutes more,' he said. 'They'll take at least five
minutes to get here.'
And at six o'clock precisely he finally gave the order for his
men to withdraw through a little dooropening on to a sidelane.
There theyjumped into a ditch and made offin the direction of
the forest of Sauval. As he was leaving the captain saluted old
Merlier very politely, offered his apologies and even added:
'Keep them in play. We'll be back.'
Meanwhile Dominique was left all alone in the room.
Oblivious to everything, he still kept firing, with no idea of
what had happened. All he knew was that he must defend
Franchise; hehadnotnoticedthedepartureoftheFrenchsoldiers,
so he kept on aiming and reloading, bringing down his man
every time he fired. Suddenly there was a loud noise: the
Prussians had forced their way into the courtyard from the rear.
He fired his last shot and then they were on him; smoke was
still coming from the barrel ofhis gun.
Fourmenseizedholdofhimandhewassurroundedbyothers,
all shouting in their harsh, ugly language. They nearly slit his
throat on the spot; Franchise leapt forward, begging them to
spare him, but at that moment an officer came in and ordered
them to hand their prisoner over. After exchanging a few words
in German withhis men, heturned towards Dominique and said
roughly, in very good French:
'You'll be shot in two hours' time.'

The Attack on the Mill 49
It had been laid down by the German general staff that any
Frenchman not in the regular armed forces who was caught
bearing arms would be shot. Even the civilian militia were not
recognized as belligerents. By making such a terrible example of
the peasants defending their homes, the Germans wanted to
prevent the mass uprising that they feared.
The commanding officer, a tall gaunt man of about fifty,
started briefly to interrogate Dominique. Although he spoke
excellent French, his rigid, uncompromising manner was com-
pletely Prussian.
'Are you French?'
'No, I'm Belgian.'
'Why were you bearing arms? This war doesn't concern you.'
Dominiquemadeno reply. Atthatmoment, theofficercaught
sightofFranchisewhowasstandinglistening, paleasaghost;her
white forehead was streaked with blood from her graze. He
looked from one to the other ofthe young couple, apparently
realizing the situation, and then merely added:
'You don't deny that you were shooting?'
'I was shooting as long as I could,' Dominique replied quietly.
This confession was pointless for he was blackened with
gunpowder, covered in sweat and stained with drops ofblood
from the wound on his shoulder.
'Very well,' the officer said. 'You'll be shot in two hours'
time.'
Franchisedidnotcryoutbutclaspedherhandsandraisedthem
in a silent despairing gesture which the officer did not fail to
notice. Two soldiersledDominiqueawayintoanadjoiningroom
where he was to be held under close guard. The girl's legs
collapsed under her and she fell into a chair, too overcome by
emotion to shed any tears. Meanwhile the officer kept watching
her closely and finally spoke to her.
'Is that your brother?' he enquired.
She shook her head. He remained as unsmiling and unbending
as ever. After a pause, he asked:
'Has he been living in the district long?'
She nodded.
'Then he must know the woods round here very well?'

50 The Attack on the Mill
This time she spoke, looking at him with some surprise:
'Yes, sir.'
He said no more and, turning on his heels, he asked to see the
mayorofthevillage. Franchisestood up. Someofthe colourhad
now returned to her cheeks, for she thought she had understood
the drift ofthe officer's questions and her hopes were reviving.
She ran to fetch her father herself.
As soon as the firing had stopped, old Merlier had hurried
down to the wooden gallery to examine his mill-wheel. While
he adored his daughter and felt a strong affection for his future
son-in-law, his mill-wheel also had a large claim on his heart.
Now that his two children, as he called them, had come through
the fighting relatively unscathed, his thoughts had turned to the
other object of his affections. It had certainly suffered a great
deal ofdamage. He leaned over the large wooden structure and
studied its wounds with a woebegone expression. Five of the
blades had been shot to pieces and the main framework was
riddled with bullets. He poked his finger into the bullet holes to
discover how deep they were; he was thinking ofpossible ways
ofmending all this damage. When Franqoisecamedownto fetch
him, he was already plugging some of the holes with bits of
wood and moss.
'They want to see you, Father.'
And at last her tears welled up as she told her father what she
hadjust heard. Old Merlier shook his head: you couldn't shoot
peoplelike that; he'd have to see. And he went back into the mill
as unperturbed and taciturn as ever. When the Prussian officer
asked for victuals for his men, he replied that the inhabitants of
Rocreuse were not in the habit of being bullied and that you
wouldn't get far with them by threatening violence. He would
undertaketotakecareofeverythingbutonlyonconditionthathe
was left to do things his own way. At first the officer seemed
annoyedathiscalm mannerbutthen, impressedbytheoldman's
plainspeaking, heagreed. Heevencalledhim back witha further
query:
'What's the name ofthose woods over there?'
'The Sauval woods.'
'How far do they extend?'
The miller gave him a blank look.
'I don't know,' he replied and walked away.

The Attack on the Mill 51
An hour later, all the food and money requested by the officer
had appeared in the mill courtyard. Night was now falling and
Franqoise was anxiously watching the soldiers' movements. She
did not move far away from the room in which Dominique was
being held. Atabout seveno'clock, herheartstarted pounding as
shesaw theofficer go in to speak to his prisonerand for the next
quarter ofan hour she could hear the sound ofraised voices. At
one moment, the officer came to the doorway and gave an order
in German which she did not understand; but when she saw
twelvemencarryingrifleslineupinthecourtyard, shewasseized
byaviolenttrembling, soviolentthatshefeltshemightdie. This
was the end: they were going to execute him. The twelve men
stood there for ten minutes and Dominique's voice could be
heard still vigorously refusing to give any information. Finally
the officer came out again and, slamming the door violently
behind him, said:
'Very well, you can think it over. . . You've got till tomorrow
morning.'
And he motioned to the twelve men to dismiss. Franqoise was
in a terrible state ofshock but old Merlier had merely continued
calmly smoking his pipe and watching the firing squad with
curiosity. Now hecameoverand, takinghisdaughter'sarm, said
in his gentle fatherly way:
'Now calm down, my darling. You must try to sleep.
Tomorrow there's another day and we shall see what happens.'
He led her away to her room, locking the door behind him as
he left her. In his view, women were rather useless creatures. If
there was anything important to do, they'd be sure to make a
mess ofit.
. .
However, Franqoise did not go to bed but stayed
sitting on it for a long time, listening to the noises in the house.
The Prussian soldiers camping in the courtyard were laughing
and singing; they must have gone on eating and drinking until
eleven o'clock, for the din seemed endless. In the mill itself, she
could hear the occasional heavy tramp offeet; no doubt sentries
were being relieved. But what interested her most were the
sounds coming from theroom immediately underneath herown,
which was the room in which Dominique was being held.
Several times she lay down and put her ear to the floor.
Dominique must have been walking to and fro from the wall to
the window, for she could hear the regular sound ofhis steps

52 The Attack on the Mill
Then there was silence; he must have sat down. Meanwhile, all
the various othernoises weredying down too and eventually the
whole house settled down to rest. When everything seemed
quiet, she opened her window as gently as possible and leaned
out.
Outside, the night was warm and still. The courtyard was lit
only by a sliver of moon which was on the point of sinking
behind the Sauval woods. The long dark shadows ofthe trees
werecutting the meadows into strips while in the moonlight the
grass looked like a carpet ofsoft green velvet. But Franqoise did
not linger to enjoy the charm ofthe mysterious night landscape.
She was examining the area immediately around the mill to
discover where the Germans had posted their sentries; their
shadows could clearly be seen stretching out along the Morelle.
In front ofthe mill, there was only one, on the far bank ofthe
river beside a willow whose branches were dipping into the
water. Franchisecouldseehimplainly: atallyoung manstanding
quite still and looking up at the sky, like a pensive shepherd.
Having carefully inspected the surrounding countryside,
Franqoise went back and sat down on her bed, where she
remained for a whole hour, lost in thought. Then she listened
again: everythingwasdeathlystill. Shewentbacktothe window
and again looked. She must have been concerned that one ofthe
moon's horns had still not completely disappeared behind the
trees, for she went back to her vigil. At last the time she was
waiting for seemed to have come: the night was pitch black; she
could no longer see the sentry opposite and the countryside
stretched out all around like a pool of ink. She listened for a
second and then decided to act. Running down beside her
window was a ladder consisting ofiron bars fixed into the wall.
Thisladderledupfromthemill-wheeltotheloft;ithadformerly
been used by the millers to inspect certain pieces of machinery
andlateron, whenthemachineryhadlong sincebeenchanged, it
had become overgrown by ivy which covered the whole ofthis
side ofthe mill.
Boldly, Franqoise clambered out over the window sill, caught
hold ofone ofthe rungs and hung suspended in space. She then
began to climb down, greatly hindered by her petticoats.
Suddenly a piece ofstone came loose and fell with a loud splash
into the Morelle. She stopped, frozen with fright; then, realizing

The Attack on the Mill 53
thattheconstantrushofwateroverthemill-racemade itimposs-
ibleforanysoundshemightmaketobeheardinthedistance, she
continuedclimbingdown moreconfidently, feelingfortherungs
undertheivy with herfeet. When shewaslevelwiththeroom in
which Dominique was held, she stopped; the window of this
lower room was not exactly below her bedroom window and
when she reached out sideways from the ladder, her hand could
feelonlythewall. Thisunexpectedsnagalmostdashedherhopes:
would she have to climb back to her room, leaving her scheme
uncompleted?Herarms weretiringandthegentlemurmurofthe
Morelle directly below her was starting to make her feel dizzy.
Quickly she began to pull offtiny pieces ofplasterfrom the wall
and fling them against Dominique's window. There was no
response: perhaps he was asleep? She prised off more pieces,
scraping the skin offher fingers in doing so. And her grip was
starting to weaken. Shewason thepointoffallingbackwards off
the ladder when Dominique gently opened his window.
'It'sme,'shewhispered. 'Catchholdofme, darling, I'mfalling
off
Never before had she spoken to him so endearingly.* He
leaned out ofthe window, caught hold ofher and dragged her
into the room. Once there, she burst into hysterical tears, doing
herbesttofightbackhersobs so thattheguards shouldnothear.
Finally, with a supreme effort, she regained her composure.
'What about the guards?' she enquired.
Stillbewilderedatherunexpectedappearance, Dominiquemerely
pointed towards the door. From the other side, there came the
sound ofsnoring; overcome by fatigue, the guard had lain down
to sleep on the floor, reasoning that by blocking thedoorway he
wouldensurethathis prisonerwouldnotbeableto gofaraway.
'You must get away,' she said urgently. 'I've come here
because I want you to escape and to say goodbye to you.'
He did not seem to be listening but merely kept saying:
'It's you, it's you. . . My goodness, how you scared me! You
might have killed yourself!'
He caught hold ofher hands and kissed them.
'Oh Franchise, I doloveyouso. . . You'rebraveandkind. The
only thing I was afraidofwasdyingbeforeseeing you forthelast
time. . . But now you've come they can shoot me.Just a quarter
ofan hour together and then I'll be ready.'

54 The Attack on the Mill
He had gradually drawn her into his arms and her head was
restingonhisshoulder. Dangerhadbroughtthemclosertogether
and clasped in each other's arms they could think only oftheir
love.
'Franchisedarling,' said Dominique fondly, 'it's StLouis's day
today, our wedding-day, theday we'vebeen looking forward to
for so long. You see, nothing has been able to keep us apart,
because here we are together, alone,just as we'd planned. That's
right, isn't it? It's our wedding morning.'
'Yes,' she replied, 'yes, it's our wedding morning.'
Trembling, theyexchangeda kiss . . . Butallatonce, Franchise
broke free as the dreadful reality oftheirsituation suddenly came
back to her.
'You must escape,' she gasped. 'You must get away, there's
not a moment to lose.'
And as he reached out in the dark to take her in his arms once
more, she said with the same tenderness she had shown on first
seeing him:
'Oh my dearest, please, you must listen to me. . . Ifyou die I
shan't be able to go on living either. In an hour's time it'll be
light. I want you to go at once.'
She rapidly outlined her plan. The ladder went down to the
mill-wheel; oncethere, hecouldscrambleoverthebladesintothe
boat moored beside it and then easily reach the far bank ofthe
river and make his escape.
'But they must have posted sentries,' he objected.
'Only one, right opposite the mill, by the first willow.'
'But supposing he sees me and gives the alarm?'
Franqoise shuddered and pressed into his hand a knife which
she had brought down with her. Neither said a word.
'But how about your father and you?' Dominique said after a
pause. 'You see, I can't run away. When the Prussians find I'm
not here, they'll shoot you on the spot. . . You don't know what
they're like, they were offering to let me go free ifI agreed to
show them the way through the Sauval woods. Once they
discover I'm gone, they're capable ofanything.'
Franqoise refused to wastetimearguing. To all his protests she
merely replied:
'You've got to escape for my sake. . . Ifyou really love me,
Dominique, you won't wait a second longer.'

The Attack on the Mill 55
She promised to climb back into her room. Nobody would
know that she had helped him. Again she flung herselfinto his
arms and held him tight, kissing him passionately to convince
him; but before agreeing he asked her one last question:
'Do you swear that your father knows what you're doing and
wants me to try and escape?'
'It was my father who sent me,' replied Franchise resolutely.
This was not the truth; but at that moment she had only one
thought in her mind; she wanted desperately for him to be safe,
forshecouldnotbeartherealizationthatthecomingdawnwould
bethesignal for his execution. Oncehewas faraway, allsortsof
disasters might fall on her head but she was prepared to accept
them gladly as long as her lover survived. In her single-minded
devotion, she wanted one thing above all else: he must not die.
'All right,' said Dominique, 'I'll do what you say.'
Nothing further was said. Dominique went over to open the
window again, but a sudden noise halted them in their tracks.
Thedoor had rattled and they thought it was being opened. Had
a patrol heard them talking? They stood clasped in each other's
arms, petrified with fear. Once again the door shook; but it did
notopen. They both gave a sigh ofrelief; it was thesoldierlying
across the doorway who had turned over. Complete silence
ensued; and then the snoring began once more.
Dominique insisted that Franchise should first climb up to her
bedroom. He took her in his arms and silently they bade each
otherfarewell. Hehelped herto grasptheladderand then caught
hold ofithimself, butrefused to go down asinglerungbeforehe
was sure that she was safe. When Franchise had clambered back
into her bedroom, she whispered softly down to him:
'Goodbye for now, darling. I love you!'
She stayed looking out of her window trying to follow
Dominique's movements. It was still pitch dark. She looked for
the sentry but could not see him; there was only the willow
gleaming paleintheshadows. Forasecondortwoshecouldhear
therustlingsoundofDominique'sbodyagainsttheivy. Thenshe
heard the mill-wheel creak and a slight splash which told herthat
hehad found the boat. A moment latershewaseven ableto pick
out the dark shape of the boat against the grey surface of the
Morelle. Once morean agonizing fear gripped her by the throat.
Every second she imagined that she could hear the sentry giving

56 The Attack on the Mill
the alarm and any little random sound seemed in the dark to
be the noise of soldiers running, of weapons clattering against
each other, ofrifles being cocked. However, the seconds ticked
by and the solemn silence of the countryside remained un-
broken. Dominique must surely be approaching the opposite
bank now but Franchise could no longer see anything at all.
Not a sound was to be heard. Then, suddenly, there was a
trampling offeet, a hoarse cry and the thud ofa body falling to
the ground, followed by an even deeper silence. And then, as
though sensing the hand ofDeath passing close by as she peered
out into the gloom, Francoise felt a sudden icy shudder run
through her whole body.
As dawn was breaking, the mill suddenly reverberated with
loud shouting. Old Merlier came up to unlock Franchise's door
and she went down into the courtyard, very pale but composed.
When she arrived there, however, she was unable to suppress a
shudder when she saw the dead body ofa Prussian soldier lying
next to the well on an outspread greatcoat . . .
Other soldiers were gathered round the corpse, gesticulating
and shouting angrily. Some ofthem were shaking their fists in
the direction ofthe village. Meanwhile the commanding officer
had summoned old Merlier as mayor ofthe commune.
Take a look at that,' he said in a voice trembling with rage.
'One of my men has been found murdered by the side of the
river. We must bring the murderer to book and punish him in
such a way that no one else will be tempted to follow his
example. I shall rely on your full co-operation.'
'Anything youlike,'themillersaid, asphlegmaticasever. 'But
it's not going to be easy.'
The officer bent down and pulled aside part ofthe coat hiding
the dead man's face. He had received a horrible wound: he had
been stabbed in the throat and the weapon, a black-handled
kitchen knife, was still protruding from it.
'Lookatthatknife,' theofficersaid to oldMerlier. 'It mayhelp
our investigations.'
The old man gave a start but immediately recovered himself
and without a flicker ofemotion replied:

The Attack on the Mill 57
'Everybody round here has got a knife like that. Perhaps your
man was tired ofhaving to fight and decided to put an end to
himself. That sort ofthing does happen.'
. .
'Holdyourtongue!' theofficershoutedinafury. 'I don'tknow
what's stopping me from burning the whole village down.'
Fortunately he was too angry to notice the change in the
expression on Franchise's face. She had had to sit down on the
stone bench beside the well. In spite of herself, she found it
impossible to take her eyes offthe corpse lying on the ground
almost at her feet. He was a tall, handsome young man, looking
somewhat like Dominique, with fair hair and blue eyes, and this
resemblance had suddenly sickened her. She was thinking that
perhaps the dead boy had left a sweetheart behind in Germany
whowould weepbittertears onlearning ofhis death. And itwas
her knife sticking in the dead man's throat. She had killed him.
Meanwhiletheofficer was still talkingofthe direpenalties that
he would inflict on Rocreuse when some Prussian soldiers came
running up. They had just discovered Dominique's escape.
Turmoilensued. Theofficerrusheduptotheroom, sawtheopen
window, realizedwhathadhappenedandcamebackfuming with
rage.
Old Merlier was extremely put out by Dominique's escape.
'The idiot!' he muttered. 'He's ruining everything.'
When Franchise heard this comment, she felt a stab of fear.
However, her father had no suspicion that she was involved. He
shook his head and said to her in an undertone:
'Well, we really are in the soup now!'
'It was that scoundrel!' the officer shouted. 'It was that
scoundrel and he'llhavereachedthewoodsbynow. Well, he's
. .
got to be caught or else the whole village will pay the penalty!'
He turned to the miller:
'Look here, you must know where he's hiding?'
Old Merlier chuckled to himselfas he waved a hand towards
the wide expanse ofwooded hillside.
'How on earth can you set about finding a man in there5' he
said.
'Oh, there must behideoutsthatyou knowabout. I'll giveyou
ten men and you can act as guide.'
'All right. But it'll takeaweektobeatthrough all thewoodsin
the district.'

58 The Attack on the Mill
Thestudied calmnessoftheoldman'srepliesfurtherinfuriated
theofficer. Herealized, in fact, how ridiculous such anoperation
would be. At that moment he caught sight ofFranqoise sitting
pale and trembling on the bench. Struck by the girl's anxious
attitude, he stood looking closely from one to the other for a
moment without speaking. Then he asked roughly:
'Isn't that man your daughters lover?'
OldMerlierwentpale withangerandforasecondseemedasif
he would fling himselfat the officers throat. He drew himself
stiffly up and madeno reply. Francoise put herhead between her
hands.
Yes, that's the answer.' the officer went on. 'You or your
daughterhelped him to escape. You'rehis accomplices.
. .
Now,
for the last time, will you hand him over?'
Themillermadeno reply. Hehad turned away and was gazing
into the distance with an air ofindifference, as ifthe officer were
not addressing him. For the Prussian, this was the last straw.
'Very well,' he snarled, 'we'll shoot you on the spot.'
And once again, he called out the firing squad. Old Merlier
remained as phlegmatic as ever. He gave a slight shrug of his
shoulders: allthis fussseemedrathertasteless. Nodoubthefound
it difficult to believe that it was so easy to have anyone shot like
that. Then, when the firing squad had lined up, he said gravely:
'So you really mean it? All right then, ifyou absolutely must
have someone, it might as well be me.'
But at this moment, Franqoisejumped wildly to her feet and
said breathlessly:
'Please sir, I beg you. please don't do anything to my father.
Shoot me instead, I was the one who helped Dominique escape.
my
It's all fault."
'Keepquiet, girl!' herfatherexclaimed. 'Whyareyoulyinglike
that? She spent the night locked up in her bedroom. I give you
my word. sir. she's not telling the truth.'
'No, I'm not lying,' the girl went on passionately. 'I climbed
outofthewindowandtalkedhimintoescaping. That'sthetruth,
the real truth!'
The old man went as white as a sheet. He couldseeinhereyes
that she was telling thetruth and he was appalled. Oh, thosesilly
childrenwhoactedonlyastheirheartsdictated! Whatamessthey
made ofeverything!

The Attack on the Mill 59
'She's mad,' he burst out angrily, 'you mustn't listen to her.
She'sjust making up stupid stories. . . Come on, let's get it over
with!'
She still tried to protest. Flinging herself on her knees, she
clasped her hands begging for mercy from the officer who stood
calmly watching this touching conflict between father and
daughter.
'Sothat's how itis!' hesaid eventually. 'Well, I shallhold your
father because the other man's got away. Try and get him back
for me and your father can go free.'
For a moment she stared at him wide-eyed, appalled at his
dreadful proposal.
'Butthat's horrible,' she whispered. 'WherecanI possibly find
Dominique now? He's gone and I've no idea where he is.'
'Well, it's your choice. Him or your father.'
'OhGod, howcan I choose? EvenifI knewwhereDominique
was, Ishouldn'tbeabletochoose!
. . .
You'recutting my heartin
two.
. .
I'dsoonerdiemyself, straightaway. Oh please, pleasekill
me!'
The sight of her tears and her despair finally exhausted the
officer's patience.
'That's enough!' he exclaimed sharply. 'I'm prepared to be
lenient, I'll give you two hours. Ifyour sweetheart isn't here by
then, your father will pay the penalty for him instead!'
He ordered old Merlier to be taken away and shut up in the
same room as Dominique had been held in. The old man asked
forsometobaccoandstartedtosmoke. Hisstolid faceshowedno
signofemotion. Butoncehe wasalone, ashesmoked, two large
tears welled upintohiseyesandtrickled slowlydownhischeeks:
how his poor darling daughter must be suffering!
Franchise had remained behind in the middle ofthe courtyard.
Soldiers were coming and going, laughing and making remarks,
jokes that she could not understand. She stood watching the
doorway through which her father hadjust been taken away and
slowly put her hand to her forehead as ifher skull were splitting
open.
The officer turned on his heels, saying once more:
'You've got two hours. Try and make good use ofthem!'
She had two hours! The words went buzzing round her head.
Without thinking, she left the courtyard and walked away

60 The Attack on the Mill
straightahead. Whereshouldshego? Shewas makingnoattempt
to decide what to do because she realized how pointless it would
be. All the same, she would have liked to see Dominique. They
could have come to some agreement and perhaps found some
wayoutoftheirdilemma. Still dazedandbewildered, shewalked
downtothebankoftheMorelle, crossedoverbelowtheweiron
some large stepping-stones and automatically made her way
towards the first willow in the corner ofthe meadow. When she
reachedit, shebentdownandsawa poolofblood. Herfacewent
pale: so that was where it had happened. She followed
Dominique's footsteps inthe trampled grass. He must have been
running, for they were spaced wide apart, cutting diagonally
across the field. Then she lost track of him; but in the next
meadowshethoughtshehadpickeditupagain. Thetracksledto
the edge ofthe forest and here all trace ofsteps was obliterated.
Nevertheless, Francoise plunged into the wood: she felt relieved at
being alone. She sat down for a while but then, realizing that the
minutes were ticking by, she leapt to her feet. How long was it
sinceshehadleftthemill?Fiveminutes?Halfanhour?Shehadlost
all sense oftime. Perhaps Dominique had gone to ground in a
thicket she knew, where they had eaten hazel nuts together one
afternoon. She went to the thicket and peered into it. A solitary
blackbirdflewaway, singingitssoft, wistfulcall. Thenthethought
occurredtoherthathemighthavehiddeninacleftinarock where
hewouldsometimeslieinwaitwhenoutshooting;butthecleftwas
empty. Whatwasthepointoflookingforhim?Shefeltsurethatshe
wouldn't find him, yet she was slowly becoming moreand more
anxioustodoso. Shestarted walkingfaster. Suddenly, thethought
cameto herthat hemusthaveclambered up a tree, so shebeganto
lookupwardsandcallouthisnameeveryfifteenortwentysteps, to
tell him that she was near. Her call was answered by a cuckoo. A
breezerustlinginthebranchesmadeherthinkthathewasclimbing
downfromatree. Ononeoccasionsheevenimaginedthatshesaw
him and shestopped and caughtherbreath, almosttemptedto run
away. Whatwouldshesaytohim?Wasshegoingtofetchhimback
sothathe'dbeshot?No, she'dnotmentionanythinglikethat, she'd
warn him to go away at once and not stay in the neighbourhood.
Then the thought ofher father waiting for her return caused her a
sudden pang ofdistress; she collapsed in tears on the grass, crying
out loud:

The Attack on the Mill 61
'Oh God, oh God, what am I doing here?'
She was mad to have come. And seized with panic, she set off
ataruntofindherwayoutoftheforest. Threetimesshetookthe
wrongtrackbutjustasshewasbeginningtothinkthatshewould
never succeed in getting back to the mill, she came out into the
meadow opposite Rocreuse. As soon as she saw the village, she
halted: was she going to go back alone?
Shewasstill standing therewhensheheardavoicecallingsoftly:
'Franchise! Franchise!'
She saw Dominique's head peeping out ofa ditch. Merciful
heavens! She'dfoundhim! DidGodwishhimtodie?Shestifleda
cry and slipped down into the ditch beside him.
'Were you looking for me?' he asked.
'Yes,' shereplied. Herhead was spinning and shehardly knew
what she was saying.
'What's been happening?'
She looked down and said hesitantly:
'Nothing very much, I wasjustanxious and wanted to try and
see you.'
Hewasreassuredand wentontoexplainthathehadn'twanted
to go too faraway as hewas afraid for theirsakes: those Prussian
blackguards were capable oftaking their revenge on women and
old men. Anyway, all was well and he added with a laugh:
'We'lljust have to put offour wedding for a week, that's all!'
Then, as she still looked upset, he became serious:
'What's the matter? You're hiding something from me!'
'No, I promise I'm not, it'sjust that I'm out ofbreath from
running.'
Hekissedherandsaiditwasnotwiseforthemtogoontalking
any longer. He was about to make his way back along the ditch
into the forest when she stopped him. She was trembling.
'Look, it might bejust as well to stay here. There's nobody
searching for you so there's no danger.'
'You're hiding something from me, Franchise,' he said again.
Once more she swore that she was not hiding anything. Her
only reason was that she preferred to know that he was close at
hand; and she mumbled a few other explanations which seemed
so strange that by now he himselfwould not have agreed to go
away. Inanycase, hefirmly believed that the French would soon
be back: he'd seen troops in the direction ofSauval.

62 The Attack on the Mill
'Oh, I dohopethey hurry up and gethereassoon as possible,'
she murmured eagerly.
Atthatmoment, theclockintheRocreusechurchtowerstruck
eleven; thechimes cameclearly and distinctly overthemeadows.
Panic-stricken, she sprang to her feet: she had left the mill two
hours ago.
'I tell you what,' she said quickly, 'if we need you, I'll
go up to my bedroom and wave a handkerchief out of the
window.'
And she ran offwhile a very anxious Dominique lay down at
theedgeoftheditch to keep watchonthe mill. As shecameinto
Rocreuse, FranchisemetoldBontemps, atrampwhoknewevery
inchofthedistrictlikethepalmofhishand. Hewishedhergood
morning. He had just seen the miller surrounded by Prussian
soldiers, hesaid. Andhewentonhiswaymumblingincoherently
and making many signs ofthe cross.
'The two hours are up,' said the officer when Franqoise
appeared.
Old Merlier was sitting on the bench next to the well, still
smoking his pipe. Once again, the girl fell on her knees in tears
appealing for mercy forher father. She was playing fortime, for
her hopes ofseeing the French return were rising. She thought
that she could almost hear the tramp oftheir boots as she knelt
moaningattheofficer'sfeet. Ifonlytheycouldarriveandliberate
them in time!
'Please,justonehour more, only an hour. Surely you can give
us one hour longer!'
The officer was unmoved. He ordered two men to seize
hold ofher and take her away so that they could proceed with
the execution undisturbed. Franqoise was in a torment: she
couldn't let her father be murdered like this; no, she'd sooner
die with Dominique. And then, just as she was about to run
up to her room, Dominique himself came into the
courtyard.
Theofficerandhismengavearoaroftriumph;butDominique
himself walked over to Franqoise as if there was nobody else
present and said to her, quietly and a trifle sternly:
'That was wrong ofyou, Franchise. Why didn't you take me
back with you? I've onlyjust learnt from old Bontemps what's
been happening. . . Anyway, here I am!'

The Attack on the Mill 63
It was three o'clock in the afternoon. Large black clouds had
graduallybeenmassinguntil theyhadcoveredthewholesky, the
tail-endofalocalstorm. Thelividskyandraggedcopper-coloured
clouds had turned the valley, so cheerful in the sunshine, into a
gloomy, sinister-looking death-trap. ThePrussian officerhad been
content merely to shut Dominique up again in a room without
givinganyindicationofhowhewasgoingtotreathim. Eversince
midday, Franqoise had been in an agony ofdistress. Despite her
father's attempts to persuade her, she had refused to leave the
courtyard. She was waiting for the French to return. But the
hourswereslippingby, nightwasapproachingandhersufferings
were increased by the thought that any time gained would be
unlikely to change the dreaded outcome.
However, at about three o'clock, thePrussians started making
preparations to leave. As on the previous day, the officer had
been closeted for some time with Dominique. Franqoise realized
that her sweetheart's fate was being decided. She clasped her
hands and prayed. Her father was sitting beside her still wearing
the phlegmatic, dogged expression ofan old peasant who never
tries to struggle against the inevitable.
'Oh dear God, dear God!' Franqoise said brokenly. 'They're
going to kill him!'
The miller put his arm round her andlifted her on to his knee
like a child.
At that moment theofficer came out, followed by Dominique
escorted by two soldiers.
'Never!' Dominique was shouting. 'I'd sooner die!'
'Think carefully, young man,' the officer said. 'Ifyou won't
help us, someone else will. I'm making you a generous offer. If
you show us the way to Montredon through the woods, I'll let
you go. There must be paths you know.'
Dominique said nothing.
'So you still refuse?'
'Shoot me and be done with it,' Dominique replied.
From where she was sitting, Franqoise was appealing to him
with clasped hands. She had only one thought in her mind: she
was urging him to be a coward. But old Mcrlier caught hold of

The Attack on the Mill 64
herhands sothatthePrussianswouldnotseethedistraughtgirl's
gesture.
'He's right,' he said softly. 'It's better to die.'
The firing squad was lined up. The officer was watching for a
sign ofweakness from Dominique, still hoping to persuadehim.
Silence fell; in the distance, violent claps ofthunder were heard.
The whole countryside was sweltering in the sultry heat. Then,
suddenly, the silence was broken by a shout:
'The French are here!'
And so they were. Onthe Sauval road, thered lineoftrousers
couldbeseenattheedgeofthewood. Inthemill, pandemonium
brokelooseasthePrussiansscuttledtoandfro, althoughnoshots
had yet been fired.
'It's the French!' cried Franchise, clapping her hands.
Shewentberserk. Springingupfromherfather'slap, shestood
laughing and waving her arms about in the air. At last they'd
come and they'd come in time because Dominique was still
standing there alive!
She was deafened by a burst of gunfire, like a shattering
thunder-clap. She spun round. Muttering: 'Well, at least we'll
settlethis matterfirst,' theofficerhadhimselfpushedDominique
up against the wall ofa shed and given the order to fire. When
Franqoise looked round, Dominique was lying on the ground
withadozenbulletsthroughhischest. Shewascompletelydazed;
no tears came to her eyes as with a glazed expression she went
overandsatdownonthegroundbesidetheshed, afewfeetaway
from the body. She looked at it, making an occasional vague,
childish gesture with her hand. The Prussians had taken old
Merlier hostage.
Itwasasplendidfight. ThePrussianofficerhadswiftlyordered
his men to battlestations, realizing that should theytryto retreat
they would quickly be smashed. They might as well sell their
livesas dearlyas possible. Itwasnow theturn ofthePrussiansto
bedefendingthemillandoftheFrenchtodotheattacking. Firing
began with earsplitting violence and persisted for a good half
hour. Thentherewasadullexplosionandacannonballbrokeoff
a main branch ofthe ancient elm. The French had brought up
theirartilleryandagunbattery, setupdirectlyabovetheditchin
which Dominique had been hiding, now commanded the whole

The Attack on the Mill 65
lengthofthemainstreetofRocreuse. Theoutcomewouldnotbe
long delayed.
Poorold mill! Cannon balls were smashing their way through
it; halfofits roofwas shotoff; twoofits walls collapsed. Butthe
most distressing sight was the damage inflicted on the side
overlooking the Morelle. Torn from its shattered walls, the ivy
was hanging down in shreds; the river was carrying away vast
quantities of wreckage and through a breach in the wall
Franchise's bedroom could be seen, her bed still with its white
curtains carefully drawn. The old mill-wheel received two direct
hits in quick succession: it groaned in its death throes, its blades
were carried off by the current and its frame collapsed. The
cheerful old mill was giving up the ghost
. . .
ThentheFrenchlaunchedtheirattack. Therewasafiercehand-
to-hand struggle. Under the rust-coloured sky, the death trap of
Rocreuse was filling up with dead bodies. The tall isolated trees
and thescreensofpoplars castgrim dark shadowsoverthebroad
meadows. To left and right, the woods were like the walls ofan
arena enclosing the fighters while the gurgling springs and
streams and water-courses filled the panic-stricken landscape
with the sound oftheir sobbing.
Still crouching down beside Dominique's body, Franchise had
not moved out ofthe shadow ofthe shed. Old Merlier had been
killed on the spot by a stray bullet. Then, after the Prussians had
all been wiped out and the mill was in flames, the first person to
come into the courtyard was the French captain. This was his
only successful engagement since the beginning ofthe campaign
and, bursting with pride, with his head held high, he came
prancing in, every inch the dashing and debonair young officer.
Seeing Franchise crouching, crazed with grief, between the dead
bodies ofher sweetheart and her father amidst thesmoking ruins
ofher beloved mill, he gallantly waved his sword towards her,
shouting gleefully:
'We've won! We've won!'

CAPTAIN BURLE
IT was nine o'clock and the inhabitants of Vauchamp hadjust
gone to bed, leaving thelittletown in silenceand darkness in the
icy November rain. In the Rue des Recollets, one of the
narrowest and most deserted in the St Jean district, just one
lighted window remained on the third floor of an old house
whose broken gutters were disgorging torrents of water.
Madame Burle was still awakeand sitting beside her meagre fire
of vine-stumps while her grandson Charles was doing his
homework in the dim light ofa lamp.
Theflat which she rented for one hundred and twenty francs a
year consisted offour enormous rooms, quite impossible to heat
inwinter. MadameBurlesleptinthelargestofthem;herson, the
regimental paymaster Captain Charles Burle, occupied the bed-
roomoverlooking thestreet next to thedining-room; andyoung
Charlessleptinan ironbedsteadtuckedaway atthefarendofthe
immense disused drawing-room with its peeling wallpaper. The
few sticks offurniturebelonging to thecaptain andhis mother, a
solid mahogany Empire suite, dented and battered by many
moves from onegarrison town to another, werebarelyvisiblein
thedimlightwhichfelllikeafinehazefromtheloftyceiling. The
cold, hard, red-painted floor-tiles were freezing to the feet, for
therewere only a few odd squares ofcarpetin front ofthe chairs
in this icy room swept by piercing draughts from the warped
doors and window-frames.
Madame Burle sat sunk in her yellow velvet armchair beside
the fireplace, her face cradled in her hands, looking at the final
wisps ofsmoke from a vine-root with the vacant stare ofan old
woman living in the past. She would spend whole days sitting
likethis, atall, long-facedfigurewhosethinlipsneversmiled. As
the widow ofa colonel who had diedjust as he was about to be
made a general, and the mother of a captain, whom she had
accompanied even throughout his campaigns, she had become
imbued with ideas of duty, honour and patriotism which had
turnedherintoanunbendingoldlady, asitwereshrivelledupby
theharshness ofstrict military discipline. She rarely complained.
Whenhersonhadbeenwidowedafterfiveyearsofmarriage, she

Captain Burle 67
had undertaken her grandson's upbringing as a matterofcourse,
like a sergeant sternly drilling his recruits. She ruled the child
with a rodofiron, nevertolerating theslightestcapriceorunruly
behaviour, making him work well into the night and staying up
herselfuntil midnight to see that his homework was completed.
Under this harsh regime, Charles, who was a delicate, gentle,
little boy, was growing up pale and wan; he had fine eyes but
they always seemed unnaturally bright and large.
One single thought was always turning over in Madame
Burle'smindduringherlongperiodsofsilentmeditation: herson
had let her down. She was obsessed by this idea and she would
continuallygobackinhermindoverherlife, fromthetimeofhis
birth, when she had seen him as a future hero who would reach
the highest rank, in a blaze of glory, to the present narrow
garrison life filled with the same dull, never-ending routine, his
decline into the post of a regimental paymaster captain, from
whichhewouldneverescapeandinwhichhewasbecominginert
and apathetic. And yet there had been a time, at the beginning,
whenshehadbeen proudofhim: forawhileshehadbeenableto
think that her dream was coming true. Burle had come straight
outofthecrackcavalryschoolofSaint-Cyrtodistinguishhimself
by his gallantry at the battle of Solferino,* capturing a whole
enemy battery with a handful of men. He was decorated, his
heroism was reported in thepapers and hebecameknown asone
ofthebravestmenin thearmy. Then
—
slowlythisherohadputon
weightand becomesubmerged in fat relaxed, contented, stout,
and cowardly. By 1870, he had not gone beyond the rank of
captain. He was captured in his first skirmish and had returned
from Germany an angry man, swearing thatthey wouldn't catch
him fighting again, it was all too stupid. Being incapable of
learning any other trade and so obliged to stay in the army, he
had managed to obtain a post as regimental paymaster, a niche,
hesaid, whereatleastthey'dlethim kickthebucketin peace. On
the day this happened, Madame Burle had felt her heart break.
Her dream had come to an end. Since then she had gritted her
teeth and retreated implacably into her shell.
The wind was gusting down the Rue des Recollets and the
windows shuddered under the deluge ofrain. The old woman
looked up from thedyingembersofthevine-stocks to makesure
thatCharles wasnot fallingasleepoverhis Latin translation. This

68 Captain Burle
little lad oftwelve had become her last hope offinally achieving
her dogged ambition ofmaking the name ofBurle famous. At
first shehad loathed her grandson with all thehatred shehad felt
forhis mother, alittlelaceworker, prettyanddelicate, whom the
captain foolishly married when she had resisted his frantic
attemptstomakeherhis mistress. Whenhis motherhaddiedand
his father had relapsed into a life ofdebauchery, Madame Burle
hadpinnedallherhopesonherpoor, sicklylittlegrandsonwhom
she was bringing up in such difficult circumstances. She wanted
himtobestrong, forhewasto becometheherowhich Burlehad
failedto be, and so, in her cold, harsh way, sheanxiously watched
over him as he grew up, drumming courage into his head and
feelinghislimbstotesttheirstrength. Littlebylittle, blindedbyher
passionate ambition, she had come to believe that here at last was
themanofthefamily. Infact, thechildhadadreamy, tendernature
and felt a physical horror of army life, but, being a very quiet,
obedient boy and terrified ofhis grandmother, he repeated every-
thing he was told and seemed resigned to becoming a soldier.
Meanwhile Madame Burle had noticed that the translation was
not progressing very well. Bemused by the sound ofthe storm,
Charles had dropped offto sleep, pen in hand, with his eyes still
fixed on the paper. Herbony finger rapped sharply on theedgeof
thetableandwithastarthebeganfeverishlythumbingthepagesof
his dictionary. Still without a word, theold woman began pulling
the vine-stocks together in a vain attempt to rekindle the blaze.
During the period when she had still believed in her son, she
hadsacrificedallhersavingsandhehadfritteredawayhermeagre
incomeinriotous living, thenatureofwhich shehadneverdared
investigate closely. Even now, he was ransacking the house and
letting everything go to rack and ruin: they were on the brink of
destitution, the rooms were stripped offurnitureandhot meals a
rare luxury. She never mentioned such things to him: with her
respectfordiscipline, hestillremainedthemaster, theheadofthe
house. Only sometimes she would shudder at the thought that
Burle might well, one day, do something foolish that would
prevent Charles from getting into the army.
As shestoodup tofetch anothervinebranch from thekitchen,
aterrible squall hit thehouse, rattling thedoors, wrenching offa
shutter and spilling a torrent ofwater from the broken gutters
down on to the windows. Above the din, she was surprised to

Captain Burle 69
hear the doorbell ringing. Who could it be, at such a time andin
such weather?Burlenevercamehomebeforemidnight, ifindeed
he came home at all. She opened up and an officer came in,
soaked to the skin and swearing:
'Christ Almighty! What a foul night!'
It was the regimental adjutant Laguitte, a game old soldier who
had served under Colonel Burle in the good old days. Born and
bred in the barracks, he had risen, far more through courage than
throughintelligence, totherankofbattalioncommander, when, as
the result ofa wound, a muscle contraction in his thigh had made
him unfit for active service and forced him to accept a post as
adjutant. He even had a slight limp, though you had to be careful
notto tell him so to his face, because he refused to admit the idea.
'It's you, Major Laguitte,' exclaimed Madame Burlein surprise.
'Yes, blast it!' growled Laguitte, 'and I must be a damned fool
anddamned fondofyou to beoutinthisdamnedrain.
. .
It'snot
fit weather to send a priest out in!'
He shook himselfand his boots spread large puddles ofwater
all over the floor. He looked around.
'I absolutely must see Burle! Is he in bed already, the lazy
hound?'
'No, he's not home yet,' the old woman replied in her gruff
voice.
Laguitte looked exasperated.
'What? Not come home?' he exclaimed angrily. 'In that case,
they were having meon at that cafe ofhis, Melanie's, you know
allaboutit, don'tyou?
I
goinandthere'sthismaidwholaughsin
my faceand tells methatthecaptain's goneofftobed. Damnand
blast it, I guessed as much, I was itching to tug her ears!'
He calmed down and walked round the room, looking upset
and in two minds as to what to say next. Madame Burle was
watching him closely.
'Did you want to speak to him personally?' she asked
eventually.
'Yes,' he replied.
'And I can't pass on a message for you?'
'No.'
Shedidnot insist butshestill stood watching theadjutant who
seemedunabletodecidewhethertoleaveornot. Finally, heburst
out again:

'
70 Captain Burle
'Ah well, can't be helped, damn and blast it! Since I'm here,
you might as well know the truth, it'll probably be better.'
And he sat down in front ofthe fireplace and stretched out his
muddy boots as if there had been a bright fire blazing there.
Madame Burle wasjust going back to her seat in the armchair
when she noticed that, overcome by sleep, Charles's head had
dropped on to the open pages ofhis dictionary. The adjutant's
arrivalhadmomentarilyarousedhimandthen, seeingthatnoone
was paying any attention, he had been unable to resist dropping
offtosleepagain. Hisgrandmotherwasonherwaytogivehima
raponhishands, all whiteandfrailinthelightofthelamp, when
Laguitte stopped her:
'Please don't, let the little fellow sleep. It's not very funny, he
doesn't need to hear it.'
The old woman went back to her armchair. Silence fell. They
both looked at each other.
'Well, here goes,' said the adjutant at last, emphasizing his
remarkwithaviciousjerkofhischin: 'ThistimethatswineBurle
has really done it!'
Madame Burle did not flinch, although her face grew pale as
she sat up rigidly in her chair. The adjutant went on:
'I'dbeensuspectingsomethingallalong. I'dmadeupmy mind
totellyouaboutitoneday. Burle wasspendingtoo muchandhe
had an idiotic look on his face that worried me. But I never
thought. . . Damn and blast it! How stupid can you get to play a
dirty trick like that?'
Heslapped his knee furiously again and again, speechless with
indignation.
'He's been stealing?'
'You can't imagine what it is. . . Just think. . . I never used to
check, myself I passed all his accounts through. I merely signed
at the bottom ofthe page. You know what it's like in the mess.
Only when the annual inspection was coming up, because ofthe
colonel, who's a bit of a stickler, I used to say: "Watch your
figures, oldman, it's mewho'sgottocarrythecan!"And Ididn't
worry at all. . . All the same, for the last month or so, because
he'd got such a queer look and people were saying some rather
nasty things, I beganlooking a bit morecloselyintohis accounts
and going through his books. Everything seemed perfectly in
order to me, nothing wrong at all...

Captain Burle 71
He broke off, seized by such a burst ofrage that he had to let
offsteam straightaway.
'Damn and blast it! It's not the swindling that annoys me, it's
the beastly way he's behaved towards me! He's made a bloody
foolofme, MadameBurle, doyourealize? Blasthim! Doeshe
. . .
think I'm an old idiot?'
'So he's been stealing?' his mother asked again.
'This evening,' the adjutant went on, somewhat more calmly,
'I'd just finished dinner when in comes Gagneux. You know
Gagneux, thebutcheronthecornerofthePlaceauxHerbes. And
there'sanotherdamned scoundrel, too, who gotthecontractand
then feeds our men on old cows-meat from God knows where!
So I greethim likethedirty dog heis andhe proceeds to takethe
lid off the whole rotten business. And what a business!
Apparently Burleonlyever gavehim paymentonaccount, areal
swindle, and such an unholy muddle that it'll be the devil's own
jobtostraightenitout. Tocutalongstoryshort, Burleoweshim
two thousand francs and the butcher is talking ofgoing to spill
the beans to the colonel ifhe doesn't get his money
. . .
But the
worstthingofall isthatthatswineBurle, tolandmeinthesoup,
usedtogiveme afalsereceipteveryweekwhichhesimplysigned
in Gagneux's name. Fancy playing a trick like that on an old
friend like me! Damn and blast the whole bloody thing!'
Laguitte stood up waving his fists in the air and then fell back
again in his chair.
'Sohe'sbeenstealing,' MadameBurlesaidagain. 'Itwasbound
to happen.'
Then, without a word ofjudgement or condemnation ofher
son, she added simply:
'We haven't got two thousand francs. We might have thirty
francs in the house.'
'I suspected that,' said Laguitte. 'And do you know where all
themoney goes? It goes to Melanie, a trollop who's driven Burle
crazy. . . Women! I said before that they'd be the ruination of
him! Ijust don't know what's wrong with that swine. He's only
five years younger than me and he still can't keep away from
them, the randy old goat!'
Therewas anothersilence. Outsidetherain was pouring down
harderthaneverandinthesleepinglittletown youcouldhearthe
crash ofslates and chimney pots brought down by the gale.

72 Captain Burle
'Ahwell,' saidtheadjutant, gettingtohis feet, 'weshan'tsettle
anything by sitting here talking. . . It was just to warn you. I
must be off.'
'What can we do?' asked the old woman in a low voice. 'Is
there anyone we can approach?'
'Don't be downhearted, we'll just have to see. Ifonly I had
two thousand francs ofmy own. . . But I've no money, as you
know.'
He stopped short in embarrassment. He was an old bachelor,
with no wife or children, and he systematically drank all his
pay, and anything left over from his bills for absinthe* and
brandy he lost at gambling. With all that, a very honest man, on
principle.
'Never mind,' he went on, standing in the doorway, 'I'll still
go along and rout out the old rascal at his lady-love's. I'll move
heaven and earth.
. .
Burle, the son ofthe Burle, condemned for
theft! It'd be the end ofthe world, it can't be possible! I'd sooner
blow the whole place up . . . So don't worry, confound it all! It's
even more annoying for me!'
He gripped her hand tightly and disappeared into the shadow
ofthestaircasewhilesheheldupthelamptolighthisway. When
shehad putthelamp down onthe table, shestoodmotionless for
a moment in the enormous bare and silent room and a flush of
tenderness rose to her cheeks as she looked pensively at Charles,
still asleep with his face resting on the pages ofhis dictionary:
with his long fair hairand pale complexion he looked likea little
girl. But this tenderness which softened her harsh, cold features
lastedonlyasecondbeforeherfacesetoncemoreintoitsusualair
ofgrim determination. Sharply, she rapped the boy's hand:
'Your translation, Charles!'
The lad woke up with a shiver and with a scared look began
hurriedly turning over the pages ofhis dictionary. At that very
moment Laguitte, slamming the street door behind him, was
drenched from head to foot with a downpour ofrain from the
gutter and his swearing could be heard even above the storm.
Then the only sound audible against the pounding rain was the
gentle scratch ofCharles's pen on the paper. Madame Burle had
gone back to her seat in front ofthe fireplace and was sitting as
she always sat every evening, as stiffas a ramrod, staring at the
dead embers ofthe fire, lost in her dogged obsession.

Captain Burle 73
The Cafe de Paris, kept by the widow Madame Melanie
Cartier, stood in the Place du Palais, a large irregular square
planted with dusty oaks. In Vauchamp people would say:
'Coming toMelanie's?' Here, attheendofthefirstroom, quitea
largeone, therewasasecondroom, calledthe'sofa-room', which
was very narrow, with imitation leather upholstered sofas
runningall roundthewalls andfourmarbletablesstandinginthe
corners; and itwas herethat Melanie, leavingthefrontbar-room
in thechargeofhermaidPhrosyne, wouldspendhereveningsin
thecompanyofa few 'regulars', aninnercirclewhowereknown
in the town as the 'sofa-room gentlemen'. It was a hallmark:
thereafter, every mention oftheir names would evoke smiles in
which condemnation competed with secret envy.
Madame Cartier had been widowed at the age oftwenty-five.
Her husband had been a wheelwright who had astounded
Vauchamp by taking over the Cafe de Paris on the death ofan
uncle; and one fine morning he had brought her back from
Montpellier which he visited every six months to lay in his
supply of liqueurs. As part ofthe equipment ofsetting up his
business, he had taken a wife, doubtless to his taste, who was
prepossessing and likely to increase the consumption ofalcohol.
No oneever discovered wherehe'd pickedher up; and indeed he
didn't actually marry her until after a six months' trial period
behind the bar. As a matter offact, opinions on Melanie were
divided; somesaidshe was superb; othersdescribed heras bossy.
She was tall, with pronounced features and coarse hair which
camerightdowntohereyebrows. Butnobodydeniedherability
to twist men round her little finger. She had fine eyes and she
used them shamelesslyto gazeather 'sofa-room gents' until they
grew pale and amenable. And rumour had it also that she was a
finefigureofawoman: intheMidi, that'sthesortofwomanthey
like...
Cartierhad diedin astrangeway. There was talkofa squabble
between the couple and ofan abscess brought about by a kick in
thestomach. Howeverthat mightbe, Melaniefoundherselfvery
awkwardly placed, for the cafe was not doing at all well. The
wheelwright had squandered his uncle's money by drinking his

Captain Burle 74
own absinthe and spending lengthy sessions at his own billiard
table. For a while it looked as though she would have to sell up.
But she liked the life and for a lady, everything was laid on. She
never needed more than a few customers and the front room
could remain empty. So all she did was to put white and gold
paperonthewallsandnewimitationleatheronthesofas. Firstof
all she entertained a pharmacist in her newly decorated room;
there followed a spaghetti manufacturer, a solicitor and a retired
magistrate. Andbythesemeansthecaferemainedopen, although
the waiter hardly served twenty drinks a day. The authorities
turned a blind eye as long as the proprieties were observed; after
all, a lot ofrespectable people would have been compromised.
In the evening, halfa dozen locals, men with modest private
means, would still comein fortheirgameofdominoesinthebig
front room: Cartier was dead and some queer goings-on were
takingplaceintheCafedeParisbuttheysawnothingandkeptto
their old habits. As the waiter was proving superfluous, Melanie
got rid ofhim and now it was Phrosyne who would light the
single gas-light in the corner for their game. Occasionally,
attracted by the stories they had heard and egging each other on
'to go to MelanieY , a gang ofyoung men would burst into the
bar-room, laughing loudly to hide their embarrassment. They
would be greeted with icy dignity; they rarely saw the pro-
prietress or, ifshe happened to be there, she overwhelmed them
withherbeautyandherdisdain, leavingthemcompletelyataloss
forwords. Shewasfartoointelligenttoforgetherselfandbehave
inanywayfoolishly. Whilethemainroomremainedindarkness,
lit only in the corner where the gentlemen of leisure were
performing their ritual game ofdominoes, she would serve the
sofa-room regulars herself: friendly but discreet, she would
occasionallygivewaytoanimpulse, ifshefeltsoinclined, to rest
her arm on the shoulder of one of them to follow some
particularly neat play in their game ofecarte.
Oneevening thesegentlemen, whohadgrown totolerateeach
other'spresence, weredisagreeably surprised todiscoverCaptain
Burle ensconced on one ofthe sofas. He had, it seemed, come in
that morning, quite by chance, to have a glass of vermouth.
Melanie was alone and they had chatted together. That evening,
whenhe came back, Phrosyne had shown him straightaway into
the small back room.

Captain Burle 75
Two days later, Burle was the reigning monarch, without,
however, puttingthepharmacist, thespaghettimanufacturer, the
solicitor or the retired magistrate to flight. The captain, a short,
broad man, adored tall women. In the regiment he was nick-
named Skirty because of his constant womanizing, a taste he
satisfied whenever and however he could and all the more
vigorously when there was an extra large morsel to enjoy.
Whenever the officers or even the ordinary soldiers saw some
great bag of flesh with incredibly opulent charms, a veritable
giant balloon offat, whethershe was dressedinfineclothesorin
rags, they would exclaim: 'Just thejob for Skirty!' Everything
was grist to his mill andin the barrack-room ofan evening, they
allprophesiedthatit wouldbethedeathofhim. Andsothat 'fine
figureofa woman' took him completely and irresistiblyinto her
power; he sank without trace into her capacious maw. It took
him no longer than a fortnight to be reduced to an amorous
stupor, afatlittle mandraineddry, eventhoughhewasstillasfat
as ever. His tiny eyes lost in his bloated face would follow her
everywhere she went, liketheeyesofa beaten dog, andthesight
ofthat broad masculine face with its coarse bristly hair held him
in a constant ecstasy ofdelight: he could think ofnothing else.
For fear that she might stop his rations, as he put it, he was
prepared to tolerate the presence of the 'sofa-room gentlemen'
and forked out the last farthing of his pay. The situation was
summed up byasergeant: 'Skirtyhasfoundhisholeandhe'llnot
budge.' A man as good as dead!
It was nearly ten o'clock when Major Laguitte flung open the
door of the Cafe de Paris. Through the doorway, as the door
slammed behind him, you could catch a glimpse ofthe Place du
Palais, pitch-dark and like a mud-lake bubbling under the
pouring rain. Wettotheskin by now and leaving atrail ofwater
behind him, the adjutant made straight for the bar where
Phrosyne was sitting reading a novel. 'So that's the way you
make a fool ofan officer, you bitch!' he shouted. 'I ought to. . .'
And he swung his arm as though to give her a box on the ears
thatwouldhavesentherflying. Thefrightenedlittlemaid shrank
back while the domino players turned round to look, open-
mouthed, unable to understand what it was all about. But the
adjutantwastednotime; hepushedopen thesofa-roomdoorand
wentinat the very moment that Melaniewas charitably engaged

76 Captain Burle
in offering the captain his grog in tiny spoonfuls, like a pet
canary. That evening the only other customers had been the
retiredmagistrateandthepharmacistandtheyhadbothleftearly,
in a depressed mood. And as Melanie needed three hundred
francs the following day, she was seizing the opportunity of
wheedling them out ofthe captain.
'Comealongluvvyduvvy
. . .
GiveMummy yourlittlebeaky-
weaky. . . It's good, isn't it, you naughty little boy. . .'
Flabby and goggle-eyed, the captain, purple in the face, was
sucking the spoon in a paroxysm ofpleasure.
'Christ Almighty!' bellowed theadjutantstanding in thedoor-
way. 'You're getting women to look after you now, are you?
Theytoldmeyouhadn'tcomeandtoldmetogoawayandallthe
time you're here going barmy!'
Burle sat up and pushed the grog away. Melanie stepped
forward, looking annoyed, as ifshe wanted to protect him with
herlargeframe. ButLaguittelookedhersquarelyintheeyeswith
that determined expression that is very familiar to women
running the risk ofgetting their face slapped.
'Get out!' he said simply.
Shestill hesitated for a second but when she could almost hear
the slap whistling past her ear, white with rage she went out to
join Phrosyne at the bar.
When they were alone at last, Laguitte took up his stance in
front ofthe captain and then, crossing his arms, he bent forward
and with all his might yelled:
'You dirty bastard!'
Completely taken aback, the other man was on the point of
losing his temper but Laguitte did not give him time.
'Shut up! What a dirty trick to play on a friend... You
plastered me with dud receipts which could have landed both of
us in gaol. Is that a decent thing to do? How could you play that
sort of dirty game when we've known each other for thirty
years?'
Burle subsided into his seat and went ghastly pale. He was
trembling feverishly all over. Walking round him and banging
his fist on the table, the major went on:
'So you've turned into a miserable little petty thiefofa clerk,
haveyou?And allforthatcowoutthere, too!
. . .
Ifyou'ddoneit
for your mother, that would at least have been something

Captain Burle 77
honourable but cooking the accounts and then bringing the
proceedsroundtothislousyplace, that's whatmakesme sick, for
Christ's sake!. Well? What the hell's gone wrong with your
. .
head to knock yourselfup at your age with a bossy old sow like
that? Don't give me any blarney, I saw the pair ofyou playing
your little games a moment ago!'
'You go gambling yourself,' faltered the captain.
'Yes, I do, damn you,' the adjutant replied, even more
infuriatedbythisremark, 'andI'madamnedfooltodoitbecause
I'm losing every penny I've got and it's no credit to the French
army. But Christ Almighty, if I do gamble, I don't go in for
stealing! Kill yourselfifyou like and let your mother and your
little lad starve but at least keep your fingers out ofthe till and
don't land your friends in the shit!'
He stopped. Burle sat staring with an idiotic look on his face.
Forasecond, theonlysoundtobeheardwastheclumpingofthe
major's boots.
'And not a bean!' he went on violently. 'Well? Can you see
youselfwith the handcuffs on? Oh, you rotten bastard!'
Hecalmeddown, seizedBurlebythewristanddraggedhimto
his feet.
'Comealong! We'vegottodosomethingatonce, I shan'tgeta
wink ofsleep with this on my mind. . . I've got an idea.'
In the large front bar, Melanie and her maid were excitedly
whispering to each other. When Melanie saw the two men
emerge, she was bold enough to go up to them and say, in her
most ingratiating voice: 'What's the matter, captain? Are you off
so soon?'
'Yes, he is,' Laguitte replied curtly, 'and I don't expect him
ever to set foot in your dirty hole again.'
The little maid caughther mistress bythearm and was unwise
enough to mutter the word 'drunk', whereupon the adjutant
finallyletfly with theslapthat he'dbeen itching to giveforsome
time. The two women ducked and he succeeded only in hitting
the back ofPhrosyne's neck, flattening her bonnet and breaking
hercomb. Thegentlemen ofindependent means wereindignant.
'Hell, let's go,' said Laguitte, pushing Burle out on to the
pavement. 'IfI stay, I'll bash the lot ofthem in there."
As they crossed the square the water came up to their ankles.
The wind drove the rain streaming down their faces. As they

78 Captain Burle
walked along, the captain said nothing when the adjutant started
once more to tell him off, even more angrily than before, forhis
'fart-arsing about'. 'Lovely weather for a walk, wasn't it? Ifhe
hadn't been so stupid, they'd both be snug in bed instead of
paddling about like this.' He went on to talk about Gagneux. A
completeandutterroguewhoserottenmeathad giventhewhole
regiment the squitters three times already. His contract expired
nextweek. The devil ifthey'd accept his tenderfor thenextone!
'That's my pigeon, I can choose who I like,' grunted the
adjutant. 'I'd sooner lose my right arm than let that poisoner get
another penny out ofus!'
Hesworeprofuselyasheslipped uptohiskneesinagutterand
then said:
'I'm going to see him. . . You wait outside while I go up. . . I
want to find out if he's really got the guts to go and see the
colonel tomorrow, ashe wasthreateningtodo A butcher, for
. . .
Christ'ssake! Fancygettinginvolvedwithabutcher! God, you're
certainly not proud. That's one thing I'll never forgive you for.'
They had reached the Place aux Herbes. Gagneux's house was
in darkness but Laguitte knocked vigorously on the door and it
was eventually opened. Left alonein the dark, Captain Burle did
not even think of seeking shelter but stood motionless in the
pouring rain at the corner ofthe market square. His head was
buzzing and he felt quite incapable ofthought. He did not feel
bored, for he had lost all sense oftime. With its windows and
doors all closed, the house seemed dead; hejust stood looking at
it. When theadjutantemergedanhourlater, itseemedtoBurleas
ifhe had onlyjust gone in.
Laguitte looked sombre and said nothing. The captain did not
dare ask any questions. For a briefmoment they looked for each
other, dimly, in the gloom. Then theysetoffonceagain through
the dark streets that were like some river-bed in spate. They
groped their way along side by side, in silence. Absorbed in his
thoughts, Laguitte had even stopped cursing. However, when
they were once again crossing the Place du Palais, seeing that the
CafedeParis was stilllitup, he tapped Burleon theshoulderand
said:
'Ifyou ever go back to that hole again. '
. .
'Don't worry,' the captain replied, not letting him finish his
sentence. And he held out his hand. But Laguitte went on:

'
Captain Burle 79
'No, I'll take you as far as your house, so that I can at least be
sure you won't go back there again tonight.
They walked on. As they went down the Rue des Recollets,
they both slackened their pace. Then, having reached his door,
the captain took his keys out ofhis pocket and at last decided to
speak:
'Well?' he asked.
'Well,' replied the adjutant gruffly, 'I'm as big a bastard as
you
. . .
I'veplayedashit'strick
. . .
Godblastyoureyes! Ourmen
are going to have to eat rotten meat for another three months.'
And he explained that Gagneux, as well as being a disgusting
little man, was a crafty bugger who had gradually led him on to
makeadeal: he wouldn'tgo andseethecolonel, he'deven forget
about the two thousand francs and give Laguitte properly signed
receipts in exchange for the false ones; but in return he insisted
that his tender would be accepted for the next allocation of
supplies ofmeat to the regiment. It was a bargain.
'So you see,' Laguitte went on, just think what a packet he
must be making in order to be able to let us off those two
thousand francs!'
Choking with emotion, Burle gripped his old friend's hands,
unableto do morethan stammera fewconfused wordsofthanks
and moved to tears at the thought that the adjutant had just
perpetrated such a dishonest action purely in order to save him.
'It's the first time I've ever done a thing like that,' grunted the
adjutant, 'but it was the only way. . . Damn and blast it! Fancy
not having two thousand francs tucked away in one's drawer!
It's enough to put you offgambling for good. . . Well, it's my
badluck! I'maprettypoorsortofchap
. . .
Anyway,justlistento
me: don't do it again, because I certainly won't, for Christ's
sake!'
The captain gave him a hug and when he had gone in, the
adjutant stood for a moment by the door to make sure he had
gone to bed. Then, as it was striking midnight and the rain was
still pelting down, he made his way laboriously home through
the streets now plunged in darkness, sick at heart at the thought
ofwhathehaddonetohismen. Hestoppedandsaidoutloudina
changed voice, full ofaffection and pity:
'Poorbuggers! Thinkofalltheoldcowthey'llbeeating forthe
sake oftwo thousand francs!'

80 Captain Burle
The regiment was stupefied. Skirty had broken off with
Melanie. By the end ofthe week, there was proofpositive: the
captain was no longer setting foot in the Cafe de Paris; it was
being said that the pharmacist had slipped into his place, almost
before it was cold, to the great chagrin ofthe former magistrate.
And, even more incredibly, Captain Burle wasnow cloistered in
the Rue des Recollets. He was definitely settling down, to the
pointofspending all his evenings athis own fireside, going over
Charles's lessons withhim. His mother, whohadneverbreathed
awordtohimabouthisunsavourydealingswithGagneux, satin
her armchair as before, looking as strict and stern as ever; but in
her eyes you could read the beliefthat he was cured.
One evening, a fortnight later, Laguitte decided to invite
himselfto dinner. He felt someembarrassment at the thought of
seeing Burle again, not, indeed, on his own account but on the
captain's, fearing that it might bring back painful memories.
However, sincethecaptainwasareformedcharacter, hemadeup
his mind to call on him and have a spot ofdinner together.
When Laguitte arrived, the captain was in his room and it was
Madame Burle who let him in. After announcing that he had
come to take pot-luck, he enquired in a whisper:
'Well?'
'Everything's all right,' replied the old lady.
'Nothing fishy?'
'Absolutelynothing... Inbedbynineo'clock, notasinglelate
night, and he seems very cheerful.'
'Well I'm damned! That's wonderful!' exclaimed the adjutant.
'I knew he needed a good shake-up. His heart's still in the right
place, the old devil!'
When Burle appeared, he gave him a hearty handshake and
before sitting down to dinner, they stayed chatting genially in
front ofthe fire, singing the praises ofdomesticity. The captain
declared that he wouldn't change his home for a king's ransom;
when he'd taken offhis braces, put on his slippers and stretched
outinhis armchair, he wouldn't call the king his cousin, he said.
The adjutant agreed as he eyed him closely. It was certainly true
thathis changeofhearthadnotmadehimanythinner; in fact, he
seemed to have swollen as, with goggle-eyes and puffy lips, he

Captain Burle 81
sat halfasleep slumped in his chair, saying again and again:
'There'snothinglikefamilylife! Familylife'sthethingforme!'
'That's splendid,' said the adjutant, worried at seeing him
looking so completely exhausted, 'but don't overdo it, will
you?. Take some exercise, go to a cafe now and again.'
. .
'Whatwould Ibe doingin a cafe. . . I'vegoteverythingI want
here. No, I'm staying at home.'
Charles was tidying away his books when Laguitte was
surprised to see a maid come in to lay the table.
'You've taken someone on?' he said.
'Wehadto,' MadameBurlerepliedwithasigh. 'Mylegsaren't
much good these days and everything was getting neglected. . .
Luckily old Cabrol let me have his daughter. You must know
Cabrol, the old man who sweeps up the market? He couldn't
think what to do with Rose. I'm teaching her some cooking.'
The maid left the room.
'How old is she?' enquired the adjutant.
'Just seventeen. She's stupid and dirty but I only give her ten
francs a month and she doesn't eat anything but soup.'
When Rose cameback with a pileofplates, Laguitte, who was
notmuchinterestedingirls, followedherwithhiseyes, surprised
at her ugliness. She was short, very swarthy, and slightly
humpbacked, with a facelikea monkey's, thenosesquashed flat,
a broad slit of a mouth and narrow, glassy, greenish coloured
eyes. She was broad in the beam, long-armed and looked very
strong.
'Heavens above! What a phizog,' said Laguitte with a grin
when the maid had left the room again in search of salt and
pepper.
'Ah well,' sighed Burle unconcernedly, 'she's very obliging,
she does everything she's asked. After all, it's all you need to do
the washing-up.'
Theyhadavery pleasantmeal. Therewas somebeefbrothand
mutton stew. Charles was encouraged to talk about his life at
school. To show what a good boy he was, Madame Burle asked
him several times: 'You do want to be a soldier, don't you,
Charles?' And a smile came to her pale lips when the lad replied
with the cowed obedienceofa trained dog: 'Yes, grandmamma.'
Burle had put his elbows on the table and was munching gently,
absorbed in his own thoughts. There was a cosy atmosphere

82 Captain Burle
round the table, lit by a single lamp which left the corners of
the immense room half in darkness. It was an air ofcomfort-
ablelethargy, thefriendlyinformalityofpeoplewhoarenotvery
well-off, whodon'tbothertochangeplatesforeverycourse, and
who feel a thrill ofsurprise when a bowl ofwhipped whites of
egg and cream custard appears on the table, as a treat, for
pudding.
Rose, whose heavy-heeled tread was making the table rock as
she walked round the room, had not once opened her mouth
whileshewasservingbutnow, standingbehindBurle, shesaidin
a hoarse voice:
'Would you like cheese, sir?'
Burlegaveastart: 'What'sthat?Oh, cheese, yes, holdtheplate
tightly.'
He cut himselfa piece ofGruyere while the girl stood watch-
ing him through her narrow eyes. Laguitte was laughing to
himself. He had been amused by Rose ever since the meal
began. Lowering his voice, he whispered in Burle's ear:
'I thinkshe's wonderful, you know. Fancy having anoseand a
mouthlike that. Why don't you send herround to the colonel
. .
one day, so that he can see her. It'll cheer him up!'
He beamed at her ugly face in an avuncular fashion and,
wanting to be able to look more closely at her, he said:
'And how about me, my girl? I'd like some cheese too.'
She came over with the plate and, sticking his knife into the
cheese, he so far forgot his manners as to laugh as he looked at
her, when he discovered that one ofher nostrils was larger than
the other. Rose stolidly allowed herselfto be stared at, waiting
until the gentleman had stopped laughing.
She cleared the table and disappeared. While the adjutant and
MadameBurlecontinuedtochat, thecaptaindroppedofftosleep
at once beside the fire. Charles had gone back to his homework.
Peace hovered over the room, the peace ofa bourgeois family
gathered together in good fellowship in the same room. At nine
o'clockBurlewokeup, yawnedandannouncedthathewasgoing
to bed; he was sorry but he just couldn't keep his eyes open
When Laguitte left halfan hour later, Madame Burle was unable
to find Rose to light his way to the door: she must have already
gone to her room; she was like a hen, that girl, she could sleep
like a log for twelve hours at a stretch.

Captain Burle 83
'Don't bother to disturb anyone,' the adjutant said on the
landing, 'mylegsaren'tmuchbetterthanyoursbutifIholdonto
the banisters, I shan't break anything. . . Well, I'm a very happy
man. All your troubles are over now. I've been watching Burle
and I promise you he's not up to any mischief. . . Damn it all, it
really was time for him to give up chasing skirts. It would have
led to trouble.'
Theadjutantwentonhis way delightedathaving seen ahouse
ofsuchthoroughlynicepeople; andthey werealllivingontopof
each other, there was no chance ofany hanky-panky there!
The thing that really pleased him in this sudden conversion was
thatheno longerhad to check Burle's accounts: therewas nothing
more boring than all that paperwork. Now thatBurle was settling
down, all he had to do was smoke his pipe and countersign
everything, withoutasecondthought. Evenso, hedidkeephalfan
eyeonthebooks, buthefoundthereceiptsallinorder, thetotalsall
balancing correctly; noirregularityatall. Aftera month, hemerely
leafed through the receipts and checked the totals, as, indeed, he
always had done. But that morning, without any suspicion and
purely because he happened to be lighting his pipe at the time, his
eyes lingered over an addition and he noticed a mistake ofthirteen
francs; the total had been increased by thirteen francs to make the
account balance; there had been no mistake in the actual figures
because he compared them with the receipts. This struck him as
rather suspicious. He did not mention the matter to Burle but
promised himselfto keep a check on the additions. The following
week, anothermistake:nineteenfrancsshort. Hewassoworriedby
this thathesent forall theledgers, shuthimselfupinhisofficeand
spent one horrible morning checking everything, every sum,
cursing and sweating, his mind reeling with figures. In each total,
there were a few francs short: it was a paltry theft, ten francs here,
eight francs there, eleven francs, and, in the most recent accounts,
the figure had even dropped to three or four francs, while in one
caseBurlehadstolen onlyoneanda halffrancs. So forthelasttwo
months, Burle had been nibbling away at the cash in the till. By
comparingdates, theadjutant was abletoascertain thatthe famous
'lesson' he had received had kept him straight for barely a week.
This was the last straw. He exploded:
'Christ All-bloody-mighty!' he bellowed, alone in his office,
banging the ledgers with his fist, "That's an even dirtier trick! . . .

84 Captain Burle
At least Gagneux's false receipts showed some guts. . . and now
he's sunk to thelevel ofa cook trying to make a few sous on the
slywithasaucepanfulofstew.
. .
Cookingthetotals, forChrist's
sake! . . . Buggering about with one franc fifty!. . . God
Almighty! You might at least show some pride, you bastard!
Make offwith the whole till and blue it on some actress!'
Itwas theshabby meanness ofallthesethefts thatmadehim so
angry. In addition, he was furious at having been taken in yet
again by those false totals, such an obvious and stupid way of
cheating. He stood up and paced up and down his room for a
whole hour, beside himselfwith rage, not knowing what to do
and talking to himselfout loud.
'One thing's forsure, everybody knows what he's like. I must
do something. . . Even ifI ticked him offgood and proper every
morning, he'd still stick a couple offrancs in his pocket every
afternoon. . . But what's he spending it on, for Christ's sake?
He'sstopped goingoutatnight, he'sinbedbynineo'clockevery
evening and everything looks so fair, square, and above board at
home. Has the bastard got some other nasty habit we haven't
. .
yet discovered?'
He sat down at his desk and totted up the amounts that were
missing. They cameto fivehundredand forty-fivefrancs. Where
could they find that money?Theannual audit was coming round
shortly; itonlyneededthatold fuss-potofacoloneltotakeitinto
his head to check a total for the whole thing to be discovered.
This time, Burle was sunk.
This thoughtmadehim feelcalmer. Hestoppedswearingbuta
chill came over him as the stiff, despairing image of Madame
Burlecrossed his mind. Atthesametime, hisheartwassofull on
his own account that he could hardly breathe.
'Come on,' he muttered to himself, 'the first thing to do is to
see exactly how things stand with that bugger. There'll still be
time to do something afterwards.'
He went round to Burle's office. From across the road he
caughtaglimpseofaskirtdisappearingthroughahalf-opendoor.
Thinking that here was the key to the mystery, he crept quietly
up to the door and listened. He at once recognized Melanie's
high-pitched voice, so characteristic of big women. She was
complaining about the 'sofa-room gentlemen' and mentioned an
I.O.U. that she couldn't see how she was going to pay; the

Captain Burle 85
bailiffs wereinandeverything was going to besold up. Then, as
the captain scarcely bothered to reply, saying that he hadn't a
penny, shefinallyburstintotearsandcalledhim 'Mummy's little
darling'. But, despite every endearment, she was obviously unable
to get round him because all that Burle would say, in a firm,
unsympathetic voice, was: 'Out of the question. Out of the
question.' After an hour, she swept out in a fury. Astonished at
the turn things were taking, the adjutant waited for a second
before going into the room where the captain was sitting alone.
Hefoundhimquitecalmand, resistingthetemptationtocallhim
adouble-dyedbastard, Laguittekepthisowncounsel, anxiousto
discover the truth first.
There was nothing sinister to be seen in the office. A solid
round leather cushion lay on the cane seat ofthe armchair placed
infrontofthedarkwoodtableandinacornerstoodthecashbox,
firmly shut. Summer was coming on and the song ofa canary
floated through the open window. Everything was spick and
span and the cardboard boxes were giving off their reassuring
smell ofold documents.
'Wasn'titthatbitch MelaniethatI saw going outas I camein?'
enquired Laguitte.
Burle shrugged his shoulders and replied quietly:
'Yes, it was. She was after meagain tryingto squeezea couple
ofhundredfrancsoutofme. Shewon'tgetten, shewon'teven
. .
get ten sous!'
'Won't she?' the other man replied, trying to sound him. 'I
heard that you'd started seeing her again.'
'Me? Good God no! I've had enough ofcows like that.'
Laguitte took his leave, completely mystified. Where on earth
were those five hundred and forty-five francs going? Could the
old reprobate have taken to drink or gambling now that he'd
given up women? He madeuphis mindto takeBurleby surprise
that very evening, so as to be able to question his mother as well
and perhaps manage to worm the truth out ofhim. That after-
noon, his leg washurtingatrociously; hehad been having a lotof
trouble recently and had hadto resignhimselftotaking to a stick
to avoid limping too obviously. It irked him dreadfully and he
would say, with a mixture of sorrow and anger, that he now
really was a disabled soldier. Nevertheless, thatevening he made
the effort and, hauling himselfout ofhis armchair, he dragged

86 Captain Burle
himself to the Rue des Recollets, leaning heavily on his stick
under cover ofdarkness. It was striking nine as he arrived. The
streetdoorwasajarandhemadehis wayup. Hewasonthethird
floor landing, taking a breather, when he was surprised to hear
voices from the floor above. He thought he could recognize
Burle'svoiceandso, outofcuriosity, hewentonupstairs. Onthe
left, attheend ofthe corridor, he could see a ray oflightcoming
fromadoorway, buthisbootscreaked, thedoorwasshutandhe
found himselfin complete darkness.
'It's idiotic,' he thought to himself. 'It must be the cook going
to bed.'
All the same, approaching as quietly as he could, he put his
ear to the door. He could hear two voices and his jaw drop-
ped: it was that bastard Burle and that hideous monster
Rose.
'You promised me three francs,' she was saying. 'Let me have
them.'
'I'll give you them tomorrow, my little darling,' the captain
replied beseechingly. 'I couldn't manage it today. You know I
always keep my promises.'
'No, give memy threefrancsnoworelseI'llsendyou packing
downstairs.'
She must have got undressed already and been sitting on her
trestle bed because it creaked every time she moved. The captain
could be heard shifting from one foottoanotherlikeacaton hot
bricks. He went up to the bed:
'Do be a kind girl. Make room for me.'
'Leave me alone!' exclaimed Rose in her grating voice. 'I'll
scream, I'll tell the old girl downstairs everything. . . Just hand
over the three francs!'
Shewasinsistingonherthreefrancs withthestubbornnessofa
mule.
Burlelosthistemper; thenhewept; andfinallyhetookapotof
jam out of his pocket, stolen from his mother's larder. Rose
seizedholdofitand, withoutbotheringaboutbread, immediately
started digging into it with the handle ofa fork which was lying
on top ofher chest-of-drawers. It was goodjam but when the
captain thought he had succeeded in placating her, she pushed
him away again as stubbornly as ever.
'You can stuffyourjam. I want three francs!'

Captain Burle 87
Atthislastdemand, speechlesswithrage, theadjutantliftedhis
stick, ready to split open the door. Christ Almighty! What a
bitch! AndthinkofacaptainintheFrencharmystandingforsuch
a thing! He forgot all about Burle's nasty tricks, he could have
strangled that horrible little skivvy for her behaviour. Fancy
trying to bargain with an ugly mug like that! It was she who
oughttobepaying thecaptain. Butherestrainedhimself, tohear
what was going to happen.
'You're making me miserable,' the captain was saying, 'and
when I'vebeensonicetoyou
. . .
I'vegivenyouadressandsome
earrings and then a little watch. . . You don't even use my
presents.'
'So what?Just to spoil them?. . . My Dad looks after all my
things for me.'
'And what about all the money you've got out ofme?'
'Dad's investing it for me.'
There was silence. Rose was thinking.
'Look, ifyouswearthatyou'lllet mehavesixfrancstomorrow
night, I'll agree. . . So kneel down and swear you'll bring me six
francs. No, you must get down on your knees.'
A shudder ran through the adjutant and he moved away from
thedoortolean againstthe wall. His legs were givingway under
him and in the pitch-dark staircase he was brandishing his stick
likeasabre. GoodGodAlmighty! Now hecouldunderstandwhy
thatbastardBurlewasstayinghome allthetimeandgoingtobed
at nine o'clock! So that was his wonderful change ofheart, by
Christ! And with a revolting little trollop that themost depraved
oftroopers wouldn't have touched with a barge-pole!
'For God's sake,' said the adjutant out loud, 'why didn't he
stick to Melanie?'
What was to be done now? Go in and give the pair ofthem a
tasteofhis stick? That was his first thought; then hetook pityon
theoldladydownstairs. Thebestthingwastoleavethemtotheir
rutting. You'd never get Burle to behave decently. When a man
sank as low as that, the only thing to do was to throw a spadeful
ofmud over him and get rid ofhim like the rotting carcass of
some poisonous beast. And even ifyou shoved his nose in his
own shit, he'donly start again thenext day and end up stealing a
fewsoustobuysticksofbarleysugarforlice-riddenlittlebeggar-
girls. Christ Almighty! And it was money belonging to the

88 Captain Burle
French army! And what about the honour ofthe flag? And the
respectablenameofBurlethatwouldendupinthegutter! Christ
Almighty! It mustn't end like that!
For a moment the adjutant halfrelented. Ifonly he had those
five hundred and forty-five francs! But he hadn't got a brass
farthing. Yesterday evening, after getting drunk like any sub-
altern, he'd lost an enormous sum at cards. He deserved to have
to limp! He ought to have been killed!
So he left the loathsome couple to their antics and went
downstairs to ring at Madame Burle's door. After a good five
minutes, the old lady herselfcame to open it.
'I'm sorry,' she said. 'I thought that sleepy-head Rosewas still
here. . . I must go and give her a shake in bed.'
The adjutant stopped her.
'What about Burle?' he asked.
'Oh, he's been snoring away ever since nine o'clock. Would
you like me to go and knock on his door?'
'No, pleasedon'tdothat.
. .
AllI wantedisalittleeveningchat
with you.'
In thedining-room Charles was sitting in his usual placeatthe
table and had just finished his Latin translation. But he had a
terrified look on his face and his hands were trembling. Before
sending him off to bed, his grandmother would read him
accountsoffamousbattles, inordertostimulatehissenseofpride
in family heroism. That evening, the story oftheAvenger, a ship
full ofdeadand wounded which wenttothebottominthe midst
oftheocean, hadleftthelittleboyinadreadfulstateofnerves, his
head whirling with horrible nightmare visions.
Madame Burle asked Laguitte to let her finish reading the
story. Then, as the last sailor shouted: 'Long live the Republic!',
she solemnly shut the book. Charles was as white as a sheet.
'You heard that, didn't you?' theeldlady said. 'It's thedutyof
every French soldier to die for his country.'
'Yes, Grandma.'
He kissed her on the forehead and went offto bed, trembling
with fear, in the vast room where the slightest creak in the
woodwork brought him out in a cold sweat.
The adjutant had been listening earnestly. Yes, by God,
honour was honour and he must never let that scoundrel Burle
bring dishonour on that poor old woman and the young lad.

Captain Burle 89
Since the youngster had such a liking for military life, he must be
able to get into Saint-Cyr, holding his head high. But the adjutant
was still trying to dismiss from his mind adreadful thought which
had been troubling him ever since the mention ofthose six francs
upstairswhenMadameBurlepickedupthelamptoshowhimout.
Astheywalkedpastthecaptain'sbedroom, shewassurprisedtosee
the key in the door, something she had never seen before.
'Comein,' shesaid, 'it'sbadforhimtosleepsomuch, it makes
him lethargic'
And before he could stop her, she pushed open the door and
stood rootedtothespotwhen shesawthattheroomwas empty.
Laguitte had gone very red and he looked so foolish that all at
once dozens oflittle details fell into place in her mind and she
realized the truth.
'You knew about it, you knew all about it,' she stammered.
'Why didn't you warn me? Heavens above, in my own house,
with his son sleeping in the next room . . . and with that scullery
maid, thathideous-lookingscullerymaid! Andhe'sbeensteal-
. . .
ing again, I can feel it in my bones!'
She stood there, white-faced and rigid. Then she added
harshly:
'I wish he were dead!'
Laguitte took hold ofher two hands and clasped them tightly
for a second in his own. Then he quickly took his leave, for he
had a lump in his throat and he would have burst into tears.
Christ Almighty! This time his mind really was made up!
The audit was due to take place at the end ofthe month. The
adjutantstill hadtendaystoact. Theverynextdayhelimpedhis
way to the Cafe de Paris, where he ordered a beer. Melanie had
gone very pale and Phrosyne took him his beer very reluctantly,
fully expecting to haveher face slapped. But theadjutant seemed
very relaxed; heasked forachairtoresthislegon andthen drank
his beer like any honest thirsty citizen. He had been sitting there
anhourwhenhesawtwobrotherofficerscrossingthesquare, the
battalion commander Morandot and Captain Doucet.
'Comeandhaveadrink,' hecalledouttothemwhentheywere
in earshot.

90 Captain Burle
The officers could hardly refuse. When the little barmaid had
served them, Morandot asked:
'So you come here now, do you?'
Captain Doucet gave a knowing wink.
'Have you become one ofthe "sofa-room gents"?'
Laguitte merely laughed. Then they started pulling his leg
about Melanie, whereupon he gave a good-natured shrug ofhis
shoulders; she was a fine figure ofa woman, when all was said
and done, and though people were very ready to make jokes
about her, those who were prepared to run herdown would still
havebeen quite glad ofa nibble. Then heturned towards the bar
and, making his voice as affable as possible, he called out:
'Three more beers please, Madame Melanie!'
Melanie was so surprised that she stood up and fetched the
beers herself. When shecameto the table, themajorengagedher
in conversation, even going so far as to give her a gentle tap or
two on her hand which was resting on the back ofone ofthe
chairs. At this, Melanie herself, used to getting both kicks and
ha'pence, began to flirt with the major, imagining that she had
attracted the fancy of the old cripple, as she used to call him
privately when talking with Phrosyne. Doucet and Morandot
were exchanging glances. Well! Well! Damned if their old
adjutant wasn't following in Skirty's footsteps! The regiment
would certainly enjoy that!
Meanwhile Laguitte had been keeping oneeyeon the Place du
Palais through the open door and now he suddenly exclaimed:
'I say, there's Burle!'
'Yes, this is the timehe goes by,' said Melanie, also coming to
look. 'He comes this way every afternoon when he leaves the
office.'
Despite his bad leg, the adjutant hadjumped to his feet and,
pushing his way through the chairs, he shouted:
'Hullo, Burle! Come and have a beer!'
Thecaptainwasquitetakenabackand wonderedhowLaguitte
came to be at Melanie's with Doucet and Morandot. However,
he automatically came over and stood, still hesitating, in the
doorway.
The adjutant ordered a beer and then, turning round, he said:
'Whatonearth'sthematter?.
. .
Come inandsitdown. Doyou
think anybody's going to eat you?'

Captain Burle 91
When the captain had come in and sat down, there was a
moment of embarrassment. As she brought the glass of beer,
Melanie's hands were trembling slightly, for she was in constant
fearthattherewould bearow whichwouldleadtotheclosingof
her establishment. She now felt worried by the adjutant's amia-
bility and wasjust trying to slip away when Laguitte invited her
tohaveadrinkwiththegentlemen; and, actingasifheownedthe
place, he had already ordered a glass ofanisette. Melanie found
herself forced to sit down between him and the captain. The
adjutant kept saying, in a bullying tone:
'I insist that these ladies be shown respect! . . . For heaven's
sake, let's behave like gentlemen! We'll drink Melanie's health!'
Burlewaslookingathisglasswithanembarrassedsmileonhis
face. Shocked at the toast, the two other officers were trying to
stand up and leave. Fortunately, the room was empty, with only
the usual group of players having their customary game of
dominoes who kept looking meaningly at each other each time
they heard an oath; so scandalized were they at seeing so many
people in the room that they were thinking oftaking their game
to the Cafe de la Gare ifthe military were going to invade their
private domain. The only other occupants were a whole swarm
of buzzing flies, attracted by the filth of the tables which
Phrosyne nowadays bothered to wash only on Saturdays; she
herself had gone back to her novel which she was reading
sprawled out behind the bar.
'Well? Aren't you going to drink Madame Melanie's health?'
snapped the adjutant to Burle. 'You might at least show some
manners!'
And as Doucet and Morandot once more stood up to leave:
'Wait a second, for God's sake! I'm coming with you. The
trouble is that that brute there has never known how to behave!'
The two officers stood there, amazed at the adjutant's sudden
outburst. Melanie, trying to smooth matters down, laid a
restraining hand on the two men's arms and gave a soothing
laugh.
'No, leave me alone! Why wouldn't he drink your health? I'm
notgoingtoallowyoutobeinsulted, doyou understand?. I'm
. .
fed up to the teeth with this pig!'
At this insult, Burle went white to the teeth and, standing up.
said to Morandot:

92 Captain Burle
'What's the matter with him? He's invited me here to create a
row. . . Is he drunk?'
'Damn and blast your eyes!' bellowed Laguitte.
And, rising to his feet on his trembling legs, he leant over
and gave the captain a resounding slap across the face. Melanie
barely had time to duck to avoid receiving some ofit on her
own ear. There was a dreadful commotion. Phrosyne started to
scream as ifit was she who had been hit. The terrified domino
players took refuge behind their table, imagining that all these
soldiers were about to draw their sabres and hack each other
to pieces. Meanwhile Morandot and Doucet had caught hold
of the captain by his arms to prevent him from hurling him-
self on the adjutant and were leading him gently towards the
door. Once outside, they succeeded in calming him down a
little by putting all the blame on to Laguitte. The colonel
would passjudgement, because they would go and see him to
tellhim allabouttheaffairthatveryevening, sincetheyhadbeen
witnesses. When they had persuaded Burle to leave, they went
back into the cafe where Laguitte, in a very emotional state
and close to tears, was pretending to be calm as he finished off
his beer.
'Lookhere, Laguitte,' Major Morandotsaid, 'thisis a very bad
business. The captain isn't ofequal rank with you and you know
very well thatit's impossibleforhim tobegranted permission to
fight you.'
'We'll see about that!' retorted the adjutant.
'But whatdid hedo to you? He wasn'teven talking to you.
. .
Two old comrades like you, it's absurd!'
Laguitte made a vague gesture.
'Never mind! He was getting on my nerves.'
That was all he would say and no one was ever any the wiser.
All the same, it caused a tremendous stir. The general opinion in
the regiment was that Melanie, furious at having been dropped
bythecaptain, hadsucceededingettingherclawsinLaguitteand
by retailing horrific stories about Burle had persuaded the adju-
tanttoslapthecaptain'sface. Whowouldeverhavecreditedit, of
that hardened old sinner Laguitte, after all the dreadful things he
used to say about women. Well, it'd been his turn to be curbed.
Despite the general revulsion against Melanie, this adventure set
her up as a woman to be reckoned with, a woman to be both

Captain Burle 93
feared and desired, and henceforth her establishment was to
flourish greatly.
The following day, the colonel sent for the adjutant and the
captain. He gave them both a sharp dressing down, accusing
them ofbringing the army into disrepute in a notorious place.
What did they intend to do about it now, since he could not
possibly authorize them to fight? This was the question which
had kept the whole regiment on tenterhooks ever since the
previous day. An apology seemed to be excluded because ofthe
slap in the face; however, since Laguitte could hardly stand
because ofhis bad leg, it was felt that a reconciliation might be
brought about ifthe colonel insisted.
'Well now,' the colonel wenton, 'are you both prepared to let
me act as arbitrator?'
'Excuse me, colonel,' theadjutantinterposed, 'I wish to resign
my commission . . . Here's my resignation. I think that settles
everything. Will you please fix the day for the duel?'
Burle looked at him in surprise. For his part, the colonel felt
that he should make some observations ofhis own:
'That's a very serious decision you're making, Laguitte. . .
You've only two years to go before retirement.'
The adjutant broke in again:
'That's my concern,' he said gruffly.
'Well, yes, certainly... Very well then, I'll forward your
resignation and as soon as it's approved, I'll fix the day for the
duel.'
The outcome ofthis interview stunned the regiment. What on
earth had got into their crazy adjutant to make him want to risk
getting his throat cut by his old comrade Burle? Melanie's name
wasagainmentionedandherbeingsuchafinefigureofawoman;
all theofficers had by nowbecomeobsessed byherandintrigued
by the thought that she must be a really hot bit ofstuffto make
those two tough old campaigners lose their heads in that way.
The battalion commander, Major Morandot, happening to meet
Laguitte, made no secret of his concern. Assuming he wasn't
killed, what was he going to live on? He had no private means
and he'd have ajob to afford anything better than dry bread on
the pension he'd get from his decoration and his half-pay. While
Morandot was speaking, Laguitte said not a word but stared
vacantly into space, completely oblivious to anything apart from

94 Captain Burle
his own dogged obsessions. Then, when the other man tried to
discover the reasons for his hatred ofBurle, he merely repeated
his former phrase, accompanied by the same vague gesture:
'He was getting on my nerves. Never mind!'
Every morning, in the barrack-room and in the mess, the first
question was: 'Well, has his resignation come through yet?'
Everyone was awaiting the duel and above all discussing its
probable outcome. Most people thought that Laguitte would be
run through in a coupleofseconds becauseitwas absurdto want
to fight at his age, with a gammy leg that wouldn't even allow
him to lunge. A few people, however, shook their heads
knowingly: true, Laguitte had never been a genius; indeed, for
thelast twenty years his namehad been a password forstupidity;
but in the old days, he was known as the best swordsman in the
regiment; and, brought up in the military school, he had risen
from the ranks to become a battalion commander through his
extremebravery and completedisregardofdanger. Burle, onthe
other hand, was a very ordinary swordsman and had the reputa-
tion ofbeing a coward. Anyway, they'd all haveto waitand see.
And excitement grew as that confounded resignation was an
interminable time coming through.
The man who was most worried and upset was certainly the
adjutant: aweekhadalreadypassedandthegeneralauditwasdue
tostarttheday aftertomorrow. Therewas stillnonews. Hewas
appalled by the thought that he might have slapped his old
friend's face and sent in his resignation for nothing, without
holding back the scandal for a single minute. Ifhe were to be
killed, however, at least he would be spared the aggravation of
knowing about it; and ifhe killed Burle, as he was relying on
doing, they would hush the matter up at once: he would have
saved the honour ofthe army and the youngster would get into
Saint-Cyr. But those miserable pen-pushers at the Ministry
would have to get a move on, blast their eyes! The adjutant was
on tenterhooks: he could be seen lurking around the post-office,
looking out for each delivery, questioning the colonel's duty
orderly, in order to find out what was happening. He spent
sleepless nights and took to his stick, no longer caring what
people might think when they saw him limping heavily.
On the day before the audit, Laguitte was making his way yet
againto thecolonel whenhewas dismayed toseeMadameBurle

Captain Burle 95
who was taking Charles to school. He had not seen her since his
lastvisitandshe, forherpart, had shutherselfupin herflatinthe
Rue des Recollets. Almost in a state ofcollapse, he moved over
to leave the whole pavement free forher and the boy. Neitherof
them greeted the other, which made the little boy open his eyes
wide in astonishment. Stiffas a ramrod, Madame Burle brushed
coldly past without the quiver ofan eyelid. And when she had
gone by, he looked after her with eyes full ofbewilderment.
'For Christ's sake,' he grunted, forcing back his tears, 'don't
tell me I'm becoming a woman!'
Ashewasgoingintoseethecolonel, acaptainintheofficesaid:
'Well, that's it! Your papers have come through.'
'Ah!' he murmured, white as a sheet.
He could still seeinhis mind's eyethat stiffandimplacableold
lady walking away holding her grandson's hand. Good God! To
think that he had been awaiting the arrival of those papers so
anxiously for the last week and now they had come he felt all
upset and excited!
The duel took place next morning behind a low wall in the
barrack yard. It was a bright sunny day, with a nip in the air.
Laguitte had almost to be carried to the spot. One ofhis seconds
gavehimhisarmwhilehesupportedhimselfonhisstickwiththe
other. Burle, whose yellow unhealthy-looking face was bloated
with fat, was walking as ifin a dream, like someone benumbed
by a nightofdebauchery. Not a word was exchanged. Everyone
wanted to put an end to the proceedings with all possible speed.
Captain Doucet, who was one of the seconds, engaged the
swords, stood back and said:
'Go ahead, gentlemen!'
Burle attacked at once, in order to put Laguitte to the test and
seewhathemightexpect. Forthelastfewdayshehadbeenliving
in a nightmare world ofabsurdity, unable to understand what
was happening. He did, indeed, suspect something but he
rejectedthissuspicionwith ashudderforhecouldsecdeath atthe
end ofit and refused to believe that a friend could play such a
macabrejoke on him in order to settle such a matter. Moreover,
Laguitte's leg gavehim acertainconfidence. Hewould prick him
in the shoulder and there the matter would end.
For nearly two minutes the swords clinked and scraped
together, steel against steel. Then the captain disengaged and

96 Captain Burle
attemptedtolunge;buttheadjutant, hiswristsuddenlydiscover-
ingitsstrengthofearlierdays, madeafierceparry'inquinte'and,
had the captain tried to counter, he would have been pierced
throughandthrough. Hastily, hebrokeoff, ghastlypaleashefelt
himselfat the mercy ofthis man who, for this once, had let him
off. He was, at last, beginning to understand: this was an
execution.
However, planted firmly on his bad legs, Laguitte, solid as a
rock, was biding his time. The two opponents were staring at
each other. Into Burle's baffled gaze there came an imploring
look, a pleaformercy: heknewthathewasaboutto dieand, like
anaughtychild, hewas promisingnevertodoitagain. Butinthe
adjutant's eyes there was no spark ofpity; honour was at stake
and he must stifle any feeling of compassion that might be
prompted by his own good nature.
'Let's finish ifoff!' he muttered to himself.
This time it was he who attacked. There was a flash ofsteel as
his sword darted from rightto leftandbackagainandthenlikea
streakoflightningplanteditselfstraightinthecaptain'schest. He
fell like a log, without a sound.
Laguitte let go of his sword and looked down at that poor
bastardBurlelyingflatonhisbackwithhispotbellyupintheair.
He kept repeating, in an angry, broken voice:
'Christ Almighty! Christ Almighty!'
Theyledhimaway. Bothhislegswereaffectedandhisseconds
had to support him on both sides, for he was unable even to use
his stick.
Two months later, the former adjutant was limping painfully
inthesunalongadesertedstreetinVauchampwhenheagainmet
Madame Burle and young Charles. They were both dressed in
deep mourning. He tried to avoid them but he had difficulty in
walkingandtheywerecomingstraighttowardshim, notaltering
their pace in the slightest. Charles still had his gentle, scared,
girlish expression. Madame Burle, unbending as ever, was look-
ingharsher and more gaunt. As Laguittestepped sidewaysinto a
carriage gateway, leaving the whole street clear for them, she
suddenly stopped in front of him and held out her hand. He
hesitated, then finally put out his own and shook it, but he was
trembling so much that he made the old lady's arm shake. They
looked each other in the eyes without a word.

Captain Burle 97
'Charles,' said his grandmother at last, 'shake hands with
Major Laguitte.'
Thechildobeyed, withoutunderstanding. Themajorhadgone
as white as a sheet. He could hardly bring himselfto touch the
little boy's frail fingers. Then, realizing that he ought to say
something, the only thing he could think ofwas:
'You're still hoping to send him to Saint-Cyr?'
'Certainly, when he's old enough.'
Next week, Charles was carried offby typhoid. One evening,
pursuing her policy ofmaking him tough, his grandmother had
once more read him the heroic story ofthe Avenger. That night,
he became delirious. In fact, he had died offright.

THE WAY PEOPLE DIE
TheComtedeVerteuilwasfifty-fiveyearsold. Hecamefromone
ofthe most illustrious ofFrench families and was a man ofgreat
wealth. Disapproving ofthe government ofthe day, he had made
thebestuseofhis talents thathecould. Hehadcontributedlearned
articlestoperiodicals, whichhadresultedinhisbeingelectedtothe
AcademyofMoralandPoliticalSciences.*Hehadlaunchedintovari-
ousenterprises, devotinghimselfinturntoagriculture, stockbreed-
ingandthefinearts. ForashortwhilehehadevensatinParliament
wherehehaddistinguishedhimselfbyhisviolenceintheopposition.
The Comtesse Mathilde de Verteuil was forty-six years old.
Her golden hair and fair complexion, which age seemed merely
tohavemade moreethereal, gaveherthereputationofstillbeing
the most adorable of the many adorable, beautiful, fair-haired
women ofParis. Earlier, she had been a trifle thin; in her lovely
maturity, her shoulders were as round and lustrous as ripe fruit.
She had never been more beautiful. When she went into a
drawing-room, the silken glow of her flesh and her gleaming
goldenhairmadeherseem likeastarinitsascendant; shewasthe
envy ofwomen halfher age.
The de Verteuils' marriage was ofthe sort never to arouse the
slightest comment. It had been arranged as most marriages were
in theircircles. Peopleevensaidthatforatleastsixyearstheyhad
got along very well together. They had a son, Roger, now a
lieutenant, and a daughter, Blanche, whom they had married off
a year ago to Monsieur de Bussac, a senior legal officer in the
Conseild'£tat.*TheyhadjoinedtheEstablishmentthroughtheir
children. For years now they had gone their own separate ways,
while still remaining good friends, albeit selfish ones. They
consulted each other, behaved punctiliously towards each other
in publicand afterwards retired to theirown quarters wherethey
entertained their own personal friends as each saw fit.
However, one night Mathilde came back from a ball at about
twoo'clockinthemorning. Hermaidhelpedhertoundress and,
as she was leaving the room, she said:

The Way People Die 99
'The master was not feeling very well this evening,
ma'am.'
The countess, already halfasleep, lazily turned her head and
murmured:
'Is that so?'
She stretched herselfout in the bed and added:
'Wake me up at ten tomorrow, I'm expecting my milliner.'
Next day, when the count did not come down for lunch, the
countess, afterfirstenquiring after him, decided to go upstairs to
see him herself. She found him looking pale but as scrupulously
politeasever. Threedoctorshad alreadycalled, heldawhispered
consultation and left prescriptions; they would call again that
evening. The sick man was being attended by two manservants
who were bustling about in solemn silence, their steps discreetly
muffled by the thick rugs. The very large cold bedroom seemed
half-asleep but impeccably tidy, with not one piece offurniture
out of place. This was illness with decorum and decency,
fastidious and ready to receive visitors.
'Aren'tyoufeelingwell, my dear?'enquiredthecountessasshe
came in.
The count made an effort to smile.
'A little out ofsorts,' he replied. 'All I need is rest. Thank you
for troubling to come and see me.'
Two days went by. The room was still decorous; everything
was in its place; medicine bottles disappeared into cupboards
without leaving any trace on the furniture. The servants did not
even allow boredom to show on their cleanshaven faces. How-
ever, the count knew that his life was in danger. He had insisted
that the doctors tell him the truth and he was letting them have
their way, without a murmur ofcomplaint. In the main, he lay
there with his eyes closed or else stared straight ahead as though
communing with his loneliness.
The countess had been telling her friends that herhusband was
indisposed. Shehad madenochangeinherhabits; shewaseating,
sleeping and going about her business in accordance with her
normal routine. Every morningandeveningshecameupperson-
ally to ask her husband how he was.
'Well, are you feeling better, my dear?'
'I am indeed, much better, thank you, my dear Mathilde.'
'Ifyou wished, I could stay with you.'

100 The Way People Die
'No, there's no necessity. Julien and Franqois can manage.
There's no need for you to tire yourself.'
They understood each other. They hadlived separatelives and
they wanted to die separate deaths. The count was enjoying that
bitter pleasure ofthe egoist who wishes to depart alone, without
seeing around his bed the tedious spectacle ofpeople pretending
to mourn. Both for his own sake and forthat ofthe countess, he
wanted to makethe unpleasantness oftheirfinal conversations as
briefas possible. His last wish was to disappear with decorum,
likeawell-bred man who hopesnotto disturboroffendanyone.
However, one evening he could barely breathe and he knew
that he would not last the night. So when the countess came
upstairs that evening to pay him her customary visit, he said to
her, managing to produce a final smile:
'Don't go out. I'm not feeling very well.'
. .
He was anxious to protect her from what society might be
tempted to say. For her part, she was expecting to receive such a
warning from him. She settled herselfin a chair in his bedroom.
The doctors were now in constant attendance on thedying man.
Thetwo servants werestill performing theirfinal duties with the
same quiet attentiveness. The children Roger and Blanche had
been sent forand werestandingat thebedside with theirmother.
Other relatives were in an adjacent room. The night passed in
solemnexpectation. Inthemorningthesacraments werebrought
and the count took communion in front of everyone; he was
giving his final support to religion. His ceremonial duties were
concluded; he was free to die.
Buthe was in no hurry andseemedtobe callingonnew forces
in ordertoavoid dyingnoisilyorin disorder. Only his breathing
filled the vast sombre room with a rasping sound like that ofa
clock whose mechanism is not functioning properly. He was
gentlemanly in his leavetaking. And when he had embraced his
wife and children, he gently pushed them away and fell back
facing the wall. He died alone.
Thenoneofthedoctorsleantover, closedhiseyesandsaid ina
low voice: 'It's all over.'
Thesilencewasbrokenbysighsandsobs. Thecountess, Roger
andBlanchehadfallenontheirkneesandwereweepingintotheir
clasped hands; their faces could not be seen. Then her two
children led their mother away; as she reached the door, she

The Way People Die 101
stopped and, as though to emphasize the depth ofher grief, her
body was shaken by one final sob. And now the dead man
became merely a part ofthe solemn ceremonial ofhis funeral.
The doctors departed; their shoulders were bowed and they
looked vaguely sorry. A parish priest had been asked to watch
overthe body. Thetwo servants stayed with the priestandsatin
their chairs, stiff and straight-backed; this was how they had
expectedtheirdutiestoend. Oneofthemcaughtsightofaspoon
lying on a piece offurniture; he stood up and quickly slipped it
into his pocket so that nothing might disturb the impeccable
tidiness ofthe room.
Downstairs in the large drawing-room, hammering could be
heard; it was the tapestry-hangers turning the room into a
mortuary chapel. It took a whole day to embalm the corpse; the
embalmerworked behind closed doors, alone withhis assistants.
When the count was carried down the following morning and
exposed to view, he was wearing evening-dress and had all the
freshness ofyouth.
Fromnineo'clock onwards on the morning ofthe funeral, the
house was filled with thehum ofvoices. Thesonand son-in-law
of the deceased greeted the throng ofcallers in a ground-floor
drawing-room; they bowed, maintaining the polite silence of
people who are in a state ofgrief. All the dignitaries who were
coming to pay their last respects belonged to the aristocracy, the
armyandthejudiciary: therewereevensenators andmembersof
the Academy.
Finally, at ten o'clock, the funeral procession set offfor the
church. Thehearsewasthatprovidedforfirst-classfunerals, with
plumes and silver-fringed hangings. The pall-bearers were a
French Marshal, a duke who was an old friend ofthe deceased, a
former Minister, and an Academician. Roger de Verteuil and
Monsieur de Bussac led the mourners. Behind came the funeral
procession, a slow-moving tide ofblack-gloved people wearing
blackneckties, all personsofconsequencewhofounddifficultyin
breathing in the cloud ofdust raised as they shuffled along like a
flock ofsheep.
The neighbourhood had been alerted and every window was
crammed with spectators; people were lining the streets, raising
their hats and shaking theirheads as they watched thehearsepass
on its triumphal way. The traffic was halted by the interminable

102 The Way People Die
line ofmourning carriages, largely empty; omnibuses and cabs
wereforminglongqueuesateverycrossroadsandyoucouldhear
the cabbies swearing and cracking their whips. Meanwhile the
countesshadstayedathomeandshutherselfupinherrooms;she
hadannounced thatshewas too grief-stricken to appear. Shewas
lyingdreamilyona sofa, playingidlywithatasselofherbeltand
watching the ceiling with a great feeling ofrelief.
The church service lasted almost two hours. The clergy were
all on parade; ever since the early morning, there had been
nothing but priests everywhere, rushing round in surplices,
issuing orders, mopping their brows and noisily blowing their
noses. A catafalque stood in the centre ofthe black-draped nave,
blazing with candles. The mourners finally found their places,
with theladieson theleftand thegentlemenontheright; andthe
organ boomed out its lament, the deep-voiced cantors rumbled,
the choir-boys wailed in shrill sorrow while long green flames
darted from the torch-holders, adding their funereal pallorto the
pomp and circumstance ofthe ceremony.
'Isn'tFauresupposedtobegoingtosing?'adeputyenquiredof
his neighbour.
'Yes, I believe so,' replied the neighbour, a former Prefet,
meanwhile smiling at the ladies across the aisle.
And as the singer's voice soared, setting the whole nave
ringing, he added in a low voice, swaying his head in delight:
'What a technique, eh? What resonance!'
All those present were enraptured. The ladies sat with vacant
smilesontheirlips, thinkingoftheireveningsattheOpera. What
a wonderful voice Faure had! A friend ofthe deceased even said:
'He's never sung better! What a pity old Verteuil can't hear
him, he liked his voice so much!'
The cantors walked round the catafalque in their black copes.
The priests, a good twenty in number, added to the elaborate
ceremonial, waving their hands about, repeating Latin phrases
and brandishing holy watersprinklers. And finallythecongrega-
tion themselves filed past the coffin, handing the sprinklers from
one to the other. Then it was time for everyone to leave, after
shaking hands with the family. As they gathered outside, they
were dazzled by the light.
It was a lovelyJuneday and threads ofgossamerwere floating
in the warm air. At this stage in the proceedings, in the little

'
The Way People Die 103
squarein frontofthechurch, therewas muchbustling to and fro
and the procession took a long time to re-form. Those who did
notwishtogofurthernowmadethemselvesscarce. Attheendof
a street, a couple ofhundred yards away, you could already see
the plumes on the hearse waving in the air, then vanishing while
the square was still jammed with carriages. Carriage doors were
slamming and horses trotting briskly over the paving sets.
However, everyone eventually rejoined the procession and it
moved offin the direction ofthe cemetery.
People weresettling themselves comfortably in theircarriages;
you could almost imagine, in this springlike air, that you were
making your way slowly towards the Bois de Boulogne. As the
hearse was now out of sight, the burial quickly went out of
people's mindsandeveryonestartedchatting; theladiesdiscussed
the summer season while the men talked business.
'Are you going to Dieppe again this year, my dear?'
'Perhaps. Butit won'tbebeforeAugust.
. .
We'regoing down
to our estate on the Loire on Saturday.'
'And then, my dear fellow, he discovered the letter and there
was a duel, oh, quite a gentlemanly affair, nothing more than a
scratch, I dined with him in the club that evening. He even took
five hundred francs offme.
'There's a meeting of shareholders the day after tomorrow,
isn't there?They want metojointheboardbut I'mso frantically
busy that I don't know whether I'll be able to.'
The funeral procession hadjust entered an avenue where the
trees were casting cool shadows and the birds were twittering
gaily in the sunlit foliage. All at once, unthinkingly, one ofthe
ladies, leaning out ofher carriage window, blurted out:
'Oh, isn't it absolutely delightful here!'
At that very moment the procession turned into the Montpar-
nassecemetery.* Everyonefellsilentandtheonlysoundwasthat
ofthe wheels grating on the gravel. They had to go a long way,
fortheVerteuil family tombwasatthefarend, ontheleft. It was
atall, whitemarblebuilding, ratherlikeachapel, richlydecorated
with statues. They placed the coffin in front ofthe chapel door
and the speeches began.
There were four ofthem. The former Minister went over the
political career ofthe deceased, whom he depicted as a modest
genius who would have saved France had he not disdained

104 The Way People Die
intrigue. Thisspeakerwas followedbyafriendwho spokeofthe
private virtues ofthe man whom they were gathered to mourn.
Then an unknown gentleman made a speech on behalf of a
company of which the count had been honorary chairman.
Finally a drab little man expressed the sorrow felt by the
Academie des sciences morales etpolitiques.
Meanwhilethemournershadstartedlookingattheneighbour-
inggravesandreadingtheinscriptionsonthemarbleslabs. Those
who were making some effort to listen were ableto catchonly a
few words here and there. One tight-mouthed old man, having
succeededin hearingthesewords: '. . .the qualities offeeling, the
generosityandkindness ofhisnobleheart. 'jerkedhischinand
. .
muttered: 'Oh yes, I knew him very well, he was an utter
scoundrel!'
The last farewells rose into the air and vanished. After the
priests had blessed the body, everyone left and in this remote
cornerofthecemetery, theonlypeopleleftwerethegravediggers
who now lowered the coffin. The ropes made a quiet scraping
sound and the oak coffin creaked. The Comte de Verteuil had
come home to his ancestors.
Meanwhile, on her sofa, the countess had not stirred. She
was still playing with the tassel of her belt and looking up at
the ceiling, lost in her thoughts; and gradually a rosy flush
coloured the cheeks ofthis most adorable offair-haired Parisian
beauties.
II
MadameGuerardwasawidow. Herhusband, whomshehadlost
eight years ago, had been a judge. She belonged to the upper
ranks of the middle classes and owned property worth two
million francs. She had threechildren, three sons, each ofwhom
had inherited halfa million francs on the death oftheir father.
However, these scions ofthis stern, cold and straitlaced family
had sprouted wildly. Where they had picked up theirdesires and
vices, God alone knew; but the fact was that in a very few years
they had squandered every sou of their five hundred thousand
francs. Charles, theeldest, had developed a passion forengineer-
ing and had dissipated vast sums on extraordinary mechanical

The Way People Die 105
inventions. The downfall ofthe second son, Georges, had been
broughtaboutbywomen, whilethethirdson, Maurice, hadbeen
swindled by a friend over a venture to set up a theatre. By now,
all threeweredependenton their mother who, whileprepared to
offerthem board andlodging, was prudent enough notto letthe
keys ofany cupboard out ofher sight.
All four of them lived in an immense flat in the Rue
de Turenne, in the Marais* district ofParis. Madame Guerard
was sixty-eight and with advancing age had developed anumber
of little quirks. She insisted that her house should be as quiet
and tidy as a convent. She was extremely mean, keeping check
on every lump of sugar, locking away with her own hands
any bottle that had been opened and issuing linen and crockery
as the particularoccasion required. Her sons were — doubtless fond
ofher and despi — te their selfishness and their age they were all
in their thirties their mother's word was law. All the same,
whenever she saw herselfalone, surrounded by these three great
hulkingsonsofhers, shefeltsomethingofaninnerpanic;shewas
always afraid that they might ask her for money which she
wouldnotfeelabletorefuse. Becauseofthis, shehadbeencareful
to puthermoneyinto realestate: sheownedthreehousesin Paris
andsomebuildingsitesinVincennes. Thesepropertiescausedher
agreatdealoftrouble; butshewashappy becausetheygavehera
goodexcuse fornot handing outlargesumsofmoneyat any one
time.
Charles, Georges and Maurice would indeed have eaten their
motheroutofhouseandhome iftheyhadbeengiventhechance.
They were solidly encamped and squabbled over every morsel,
each meanwhile accusing the other of greed. Their mother's
deathwould makethem richoncemore; theyknewthisand their
knowledge served them as a pretext to sit tight and do nothing.
Although thesubject was nevermentioned, they wereconstantly
preoccupiedwiththequestionofhowtheestatewouldbedivided
up; ifthey could not come to some agreement, they would have
to sell up, which is always a disastrous operation. And they
thought of these matters without any evil in their minds but
merely because you have to think of everything. They were
cheerful, good-tempered and moderately honest; and, likeevery-
oneelse, they wanted their mothertoliveaslongaspossible. She
didn't bother them. They were merely biding their time.

106 The Way People Die
One evening, on leaving table, Madame Guerard felt unwell.
Her sons insisted that she lie down and when she assured them
that she was feeling better and that it was only a sick headache,
they left her with her maid. But the next day the old lady's
condition worsened and the family doctor was sufficiently
worried to ask for a second opinion. Madame Guerard was
seriouslyill. Andsoforaweek, highdramawasplayedoutinthe
dying woman's bedroom.
As soon as she found herselfbedridden, her first concern had
been to have every key in the house brought to her bedside, and
shehadhiddenthemunderherpillow. Shehadeveryintentionof
continuing to rulethehousehold from herbed andto protect the
cupboards from being stripped bare. Many conflicting feelings
werestruggling in her mind and she was so torn by doubtthatit
wasonlyaftermuchhesitationthatshewasabletodecidewhatto
do. As her three sons stood therein herbedroom, shewouldeye
them uncertainly; she was seeking inspiration.
Oneday, shefeltthatshecouldtrustGeorges;so, beckoningto
him, she whispered:
'Look, here's the key to the larder, go and get somesugarout.
Be careful to lock it up again properly and bring the key back to
me.'
Another day, she felt suspicious ofGeorges and kept a close
watch on him as soon as he showed signs ofmoving, as ifscared
ofseeing him slip the knick-knacks on the mantelshelfinto his
pocket. She called to Charles and this time handed him a key,
whispering:
'My maid will go with you, keep your eye on her while she
gets the sheets out and then lock the cupboard up yourself.'
On her death-bed she was tormented by one thought: she
would no longer be in charge ofthe household expenditure. She
recalledherchildren'sfecklessness, sheknewthatthey werelazy,
greedy, crackbrained and grasping. She had long since ceased to
haveany regard forthem. Theyhad realizednoneofherdreams,
they offended all her ideas ofthrift and austerity. Her affection
alone survived and forgave. In her pleading eyes, you could see
her begging them to wait until she was no longer there before
clearing out the drawers and sharing out the estate. Any attempt
to divide it up before her eyes would have been torture for her
avaricious spirit, now so close to extinction.

The Way People Die 107
However, Charles, Georgesand Mauricewerebeingverykind
to her. They arranged forone ofthem to be always near at hand
and they showed honest affection in all they did for her. Yet in
spiteofthemselvestheybroughtintothesickroomtheunconcern
ofthe outer world, the aroma oftheir cigars, theirinterest in the
news of the town. And in her selfishness, the sick woman
sufferedatnotbeingatthecentreofherchildren'slives, nowthat
shewasdying. Then, asshegrewweaker, hersuspicionsledtoan
ever-increasing embarrassment between the young men and
herself. Even had they not been thinking of the considerable
fortunethattheywereduetoinherit, shewouldhaveencouraged
them to do so by the way in which she was defending it to her
very last gasp. She kept watching them so narrowly and with
such obvious fear in her eyes that they had to look away. Then
she started thinking that they were waiting for signs that her
death-throes had begun; as indeed they were, for their thoughts
were being constantly drawn back to this idea by the mute
questioning look in her eyes. It was she herselfwho was lending
fuel totheircupidity. Whenshesawoneofthemlostinthought,
she would call out to him, white in the face:
'Come over here, close to me What are you thinking
. . .
about?'
'Nothing, Mother.'
Buthehad given a start. She would slowly shakeherhead and
say:
'I'm causing you a lot ofbother, my sons. Never mind, don't
worry, I shan't be here much longer!'
They would gather round her, promising that they loved her
andwouldhelphertogetwell. Shewouldgiveastubbornjerkof
herhead and reply: 'No!' She became more and moredistrustful.
Her death-throes were atrocious, poisoned by thoughts of
money.
Her illness had lasted three weeks. There had already been
consultations with five doctors, the best in Paris. Madame
Guerard's maid was helping her sons to look after her and,
despite all efforts, a certain untidiness had crept into the house.
Hope had now been abandoned, for the doctors had confirmed
that the sick woman might die at any moment.
Thenonemorning, when hersonsthoughtthatshewasasleep,
they were quietly discussing among themselves, by the window.

108 The Way People Die
aproblemthathadarisen. ItwasJuly 15th. MadameGuerardhad
been accustomed to collect the rents in person. They were
embarrassed because they could not see how they could collect
these rents themselves. The concierge had already asked for
instructions but their mother was so weak that they could not
considerdiscussingbusinessmatterswithher. Ontheotherhand,
should the worst happen, they would need the money from the
rents in order to meet certain personal expenses.
'Well now,' whispered Georges, 'ifyou like I'll go and call on
the tenants. They'll understand the situation and pay me.'
. .
Buttheothertwodidnotseemtorelishtheidea. Theytoohad
become suspicious.
'We could come with you,' said Charles. 'All three ofus have
some expenses to settle up.'
'That'sallright. I'llhandthemoneyovertoyou
. . .
Surelyyou
don't imagine that I'm capable ofmaking offwith it?'
'No, but it would be better for us all to go together. It would
look more businesslike.'
And they looked at each other with eyes already glinting with
angerandresentmentatthethoughtthatthedivisionoftheestate
wasloomingupandeachofthem wantedtomakesurehegotthe
lion's share. All ofa sudden, Charles put into words a thought
that was already in the others' minds.
'Look here, the best thing to do will be to sell up. . . Ifwe're
already starting to quarrel now, we'll soon be at each other's
throats.'
At this moment they heard a death-rattle and turning their
heads they saw their mother, pale as a sheet and trembling all
over, who had frantically lifted herselfhalfup in bed. She had
heard what they were saying and, stretching out her emaciated
arms, she called out several times in a horrified voice: 'Children,
children . . .' and then fell back convulsed on to her pillow. She
died with the dreadful thought that her children were robbing
her.
The three sons fell, terrified, on to their knees at the dead
woman'sbedside, kissingherhandsandsobbingastheyclosedher
eyes. For a brief moment they had returned to childhood and
realizedthattheywereorphans. Butthehorriblecircumstancesof
her death stayed in their minds and filled them with a feeling of
remorseand hatred. Thebody was laid outbythe maid and they

The Way People Die 109
sent for a nun to keep watch over it. Meanwhile the three sons
werekeptbusynotifying thedeath, orderingthelettersannounc-
ingitandmakingthearrangementsforthefuneral. Atnight, they
tookitinturnstokeepwatchwiththenun. Intheroom, withthe
curtains drawn, the dead woman lay stretched out in the middle
ofthebedwithherhandsclaspedandasilvercrucifixlyingonher
chest. A candle was burning beside her and a sprig ofpalm was
standing in a vessel ofholy water. The chill shudder of dawn
brought the vigil to an end; the nun asked for a glass ofhot milk
because she was not feeling very well.
An hour before the funeral procession was due to set off, the
staircase was thronged with people. The carriage entrance was
hung with black draperies fringed with silver and the coffin lay
thereas thoughat theend ofa chapel, surroundedby candles and
covered with wreaths and bunches offlowers. Each caller took a
sprinkler and sprinkled the corpse with holy water. At eleven
o'clock, the procession set off with the three sons leading the
mourners. Behindthemcamejudges, someleadingindustrialists,
a solemn collection of representatives of the middle classes,
walking with measured tread as they cast furtive glances at the
passers-by who stopped to watch. Twelve carriages brought up
the rear of the procession. They were remarked upon and
counted as they passed through the quarter.
Meanwhile, the onlookers were sympathizing with Charles,
Georges and Maurice as they walked behind the coffin in
theirdarkcoatsandblack gloves, with theircheeksredwithtears
and their heads reverently cast down. Indeed, the general verdict
was unanimous: they were burying their mother in style. It
was a first-class hearse and people calculated that it would cost
them several thousand francs. One old lawyer said with a sly
grin:
'If Madame Gucrard had been paying for the funeral herself,
she'd have had six carriages less.'
The church porch was draped in black, there was organ music
and the absolution was given by the vicar ofthe parish. Then,
after filing past the coffin, the mourners came up to the three
sons standing in line ready to shake hands with those who were
unable to proceed to the cemetery. For ten minutes, biting their
lips and holding back their tears, they stood with arms out-
stretched, shakinghandswith peopletheydidnotevenrccogni7e

110 The Way People Die
They were greatly relieved whenthechurchhademptiedandthey
found themselves once more walking slowly behind the coffin.
TheGuerard family vault was in the Pere-Lachaisecemetery.*
Many mourners remained on foot while others got into the
carriages. The funeral procession crossed the Place de la Bastille
andwentalongtheRuedelaRoquette. Passers-bylookedupand
raised their hats, while workmen ofthe district watched the rich
funeral go by as they munched their sausages sandwiched
between huge chunks ofbread.
The procession turned right as it entered the cemetery and
halted in front ofthe tomb: a small monument in the shape ofa
Gothic chapel on which were written the words 'The Guerard
Family', cut in black letters on the pediment. The open-work
cast-iron gate stood wide open, allowing a glimpse of an
altar-table inside, on which candles were burning. All around
were similar tombs in rows like the streets of a town; they
reminded you of the shop-fronts of furniture-dealers, with
wardrobes, chests-of-drawers and secretaires, all recently
finished, arranged for display in symmetrical groups. The
mourners' attention wandered as they examined the architecture
ofthe tombs and tried to find a little shade under the trees ofa
nearby avenue. One of the ladies had gone over to admire a
magnificent bush ofsweet-scented roses growing on one ofthe
graves.
In the meantime the coffin had been lowered. A priest was
saying the final prayers as the gravediggers in their bluejackets
stood waiting a few yards away. The three sons were shaken by
sobs, with their eyes fixed on the gaping vault from which the
flagstone had been lifted; it was in this cool shade that they too
would one day rest. As the gravediggers approached, their
friends led them away.
And two days later in the office of their mother's solicitor,
they were going at each other hammer and tongs, teeth clenched
and not a tear to be seen, like sworn enemies determined not to
relinquish one single penny. It would have been in their own
interest not to rush into selling their various properties; but they
flung unpleasant truths in each other's faces: Charles would
squander every penny on his madcap inventions; Georges was
certainlybeingfleecedbysometart; Mauricewassurelyinvolved
in some wild speculation which would swallow up all their

The Way People Die 111
capital. The solicitor vainly tried to persuade them to reach an
amicable agreement. When they parted they were threatening to
issue writs against each other.
Their dead mother was coming back to life inside them, in all
her miserliness and terror ofbeing robbed. Once death has been
poisoned by money, nothing but anger can result and the living
will fight over the coffins oftheir dead.
Ill
At the age of twenty, Monsieur Rousseau had married Adele
Lemercier, anorphanofeighteen. On theirweddingday, thepair
ofthem possessed as their sole worldly wealth a total ofseventy
francs. In the beginning they sold notepaper and sticks ofsealing
wax in the carriage entrance ofa house. Next they rented a shop
nobiggerthanapocket-handkerchiefandspentthefollowingten
years in this miserable hole gradually working up their business.
Now theyhadastationer'sshopintheRuedeClichy*whichwas
worth a good fifty thousand francs.
Adele was not very robust; shehad always had aslight cough.
The shop was airless and she was perpetually stuck behind the
counter. Neither of these things was good for her. They had
consultedadoctorwhohadadvisedrestandanicewalkwhenthe
weather was suitable. But such prescriptions are impossible to
follow ifyou want to put together a little capital and enjoy it in
peace. Adelesaidthatshewouldrestandstarttakingherwalksas
soon as they had sold up and retired to the country.
However, Monsieur Rousseau was worried to see his wife
looking so paleand with such ahectic flushin hercheeks. But he
hadhisshoptoattendtoandcouldnotbeforeveronthelook-out
topreventherfrombehavingunwisely. Forweeksonendhewas
unableto find thetimeto discuss herhealth with her. Then, ifhe
happened to hear her little dry cough, he would get angry and
make her put on her shawl and come for a walk with him up the
Champs-Elysees. But she would come back tired and coughing
worse than ever; Monsieur Rousseau would once more become
absorbed inall his problemsandhis wife's condition would again
be forgotten until anew crisis arose. Business is likethat: you die
in harness without ever having had time to look after yourself.

112 The Way People Die
One day Monsieur Rousseau took the doctor aside and asked
him bluntly ifhis wife's life was in danger. The doctor beganby
saying that you must trust to nature and that he had seen many
people more ill than Adele who had pulled through. On being
pressed, headmittedthatMonsieurRousseau's wifehadtuberculo-
sis and was indeed in an advanced stage ofthe disease. Rousseau
went pale. He loved his wife for the help she had given him in
setting up their business together, long before they could look
forwardtoeatingwhitebreadeveryday. InAdelehehadfoundnot
onlyawifebutanassociatewhoseenergyandintelligencehegreatly
appreciated. Werehetoloseher, it wouldbehisbusinessaswell as
hislovethatwouldsuffer. However, hemustbebrave;hecouldnot
affordtoshutdownhisshopinordertogivewaytohissorrow. So
he kept his feelings to himselfand tried not to perturb Adele by
appearing with eyes red with tears. He continued his daily round.
Afteramonth, ifhehappenedtothink ofthesesad matters, hehad
managedtopersuadehimselfthatdoctorsareoftenwrong. Hiswife
did not seem to be more ill. And he reached the stage ofwatching
her slowly die before his eyes without feeling too much grief
himself; preoccupied with his business, he was expecting a disaster
but kept putting it offto some unknown future date.
Sometimes Adele would say:
'You'llseehowwellI'llbeoncewe'veretiredtothecountry! My
goodness, we've only got eight years to wait. They'll soon pass.'
And it never once occurred to Monsieur Rousseau that they
could in fact retire at once, with more modest savings. For one
thing, Adele wouldn't like it; when you've set yourselfa figure,
you have to stick to it.
Meanwhile Madame Rousseau had already had to take to her
bed a couple oftimes, but had been able to get up and return to
her place behind the counter. The neighbours said: 'There's a
little woman who's not long for this world.' They were not
mistaken. At thevery momentthat stocktaking wasdueto start,
shehad to take to herbed forthethird time. Thedoctorcamein
themorning, chatted with herand casually signedaprescription.
But Monsieur Rousseau was warned and knew that the end was
near. However, his stocktaking kept him downstairs in the shop
andallhecoulddowastotakefiveminutesoffnowandthen. He
accompanied the doctor upstairs and then came down with him.
He would go back for a second time beforelunch and get to bed

The Way People Die 113
ateleven o'clock, tucked awayin acubby-hole wherehehadhad
a trestle bed set up. The sick woman was being tended by their
maid Franchise. Shewas a dreadful girl from theAuvergne;* she
hadlargeclumsyhandsandhercleanlinessandmannersleftmuch
tobedesired. Shetreatedthedyingwomanwithscantceremony,
brought her her medicines with surly looks and made a fearful
clatter as she swept out ofthe room, leaving it in a deplorable
state ofuntidiness: filthy medicine bottles were left lying about
onthechest-of-drawers, wash-basinswerenevercleaned, dusters
were left hanging on the backs of chairs and the floor was so
cluttered up that you hardly knew where to put your feet.
Despiteall this, Madame Rousseau remained uncomplaining and
merely knocked on the wall when the maid failedto reply toher
call. Francoise had other things to do besides looking after her;
shehadtokeep theshop clean, cook meals for themaster andhis
assistants, notto mention goingshopping andotherunscheduled
tasks. SoMadamecouldn'texpecthertobeconstantlyatherbeck
and call. She'd look after her when she could spare the time.
In any case, even from her bed, Adele maintained her interest
inthebusiness; shekeptherselfinformedastothesalesandevery
evening she would ask herhusband how things were going. She
was worried about the stocktaking. As soon as her husband was
able to slip away and come upstairs, her only concern was to
discover the probable size ofthe profits. She was distressed to
hear that it had been a rather poor year, fourteen hundred francs
less than the previous year. Even when she was prostrate with
fever, she was still able to remember last week's orders; she
worked out the amounts and, in fact, was still running the
business. And ifhe forgot the time, it was she who sent him back
downstairstohisjob. Stayingup with herwouldn'thelphertoget
better and it was bad for business. She felt sure that the assistants
were sitting looking out ofthe window and she would add:
'Dogodownanddon'tforgettogetinlotsofregistersbecause
theschoolyearisbeginningsoonandwemightrunoutofthem.'
For a long time she deluded herselfas to the true state ofher
health. Shekepton hoping thatshewouldbeoutofbednextday
and take up her usual place behind the counter again. She even
madeplans:ifshecouldgooutsoon, they'dgoandspendSunday
in Saint-Cloud.* She had never felt like seeing trees so much in
her life! Then suddenly one morning she became very serious.

114 The Way People Die
During the night, as she had lain awake all alone with her eyes
open, shehadrealizedthatshewas going todie. Shesaidnothing
until that evening but lay looking up at the ceiling, thinking. In
theevening, sheasked herhusband not to go away and speaking
quietly, in a matter-of-fact voice, as ifshowing him a bill, she
said:
Tomorrow I wantyou to go and fetch a solicitor. There'sone
quite close by, in the Rue Saint-Lazare.'
'Whatfor?' exclaimedMonsieur Rousseau. 'There'snoneedto
do that yet, that's for sure!'
But she went on in her calm, reasonable way:
'Perhaps not. But it will stop me worrying ifI know that our
affairs are in order. When we got married, we agreed to have a
joint estate. That was when neitherofus had two pennies to rub
together. But now we do have a little money, I don't want any
family to come along and take it away from you . . . My sister
Agatha isn't so nice that I want to leave her anything. I'd sooner
take it with me.'
Andsheinsistedthatherhusbandshouldgoalongnextdayand
fetch a solicitor. When he came, she questioned him closely,
anxious to make absolutely sure that the will could not be
contested. When the will had been signed and the solicitor had
left, she stretched out in her bed and said quietly:
'Now I'lldiehappy.
. .
I'dcertainlyearnedtherighttoretireto
thecountry and I admitthat I'm sorry about missingthat. Butat
least you'll be able to go. You must promise to retire to the
. .
place we'd decided on, you know, the place where your mother
was born, near Melun.* That thought would make me happy.'
Monsieur Rousseau burst into tears. She consoled him and
gave him some good advice. Ifhe got tired ofliving alone, he
ought to get married again; but he shouldn't choose too young a
woman, because girls who marry widowers do it for their
money. Andshementionedthenameofanacquaintanceoftheirs
whom she would be glad for him to marry.
That very night her death-throes began. They were frightful;
she was suffocating and pleading for air. Franchise had dropped
offto sleep in her chair. The only thing that Monsieur Rousseau
could do as he stood beside the dying woman's bed was to hold
herhandtightly, tellherthathewaswithherandwouldnotleave
her. In the morning she suddenly became very calm. She was

The Way People Die 115
very pale and breathing gently with closed eyes. Her husband
thought that it would be safe for him to go downstairs with
Francoise to open up the shop. When he came back upstairs he
found his wife still looking very pale and lying in exactly the
same position; but her eyes were open. She was dead.
Monsieur Rousseau had been expecting her to die for so long
that he did not shed any tears but merely felt suddenly quite
exhausted. He went downstairs again, watched Franchise put up
the shutters once more and then wrote out in his own hand the
words: 'Closedonaccountofdeath' ona pieceofpaperwhichhe
stuck on the centre shutter with four pieces of sealing wax.
Upstairs the whole morning was spent cleaning and tidying up
the room. Franchise passed a cloth over the floor, removed the
medicine bottles andput alighted candleand acup ofholy water
beside the dead woman. Adele's sister Agatha would be coming
and she had a viper-like tongue. The maid did not want to give
her the chance ofcalling her a slut. Monsieur Rousseau had sent
one of his assistants to complete the necessary formalities. He
himself went off to the church where he spent a long time
discussing the charges for the funeral. He could see no reason
why he should be rooked merely because he had been bereaved.
Hehadbeenveryfondofhiswifeandhefeltsurethatifshecould
still seehim, she would be pleased that hewas haggling with the
priests and undertakers. However, he wanted a proper funeral;
after all, there were the neighbours to consider. In the end, he
reached an agreement to pay the church one hundred and sixty
francsandtheundertakersthreehundred. Hecalculatedthatwith
all the extras, he would not get away under five hundred francs.
When Monsieur Rousseau went home he found his sister-in-
law Agatha comfortably installed beside the dead woman. Agatha
was a tall, gaunt woman with red eyes and thin bluish lips. He
and his wife had not been onspeaking terms with herforthelast
two years and had stopped seeing her. She stood up politely and
embraced her brother-in-law. Death puts an end to all our
disagreements. And now Monsieur Rousseau, who had been
unabletosheda tearall that morning, suddenlyburstintosobsas
hesawhispoorwifelyingtherestiffandpale, morepinchedthan
ever and her cheeks so fallen-in that he could hardly recognize
her. Agatha remained dry-eyed. Shehadensconced herselfin the
best armchair and was running a calculating eye round the room

116 The Way People Die
as though drawingupacarefulinventoryofallthefurniture. She
had not yet raised the question ofclaims on the estate but it was
plain that she was very much concerned and must be wondering
ifthere was a will.
Onthemorningofthefuneral, when
it
cametoplacingthebody
into the coffin, it was discovered that the undertakers had made a
mistake and had sent one that was too short. They had to go and
fetch another. Meanwhile the hearse stood waiting in front ofthe
shop and the neighbours were all agog. This caused Monsieur
Rousseaufurtherdistress. Ifonlythedelaymightbringherbackto
life!ButatlasttheycarriedpoorMadameRousseaudownstairsand
the coffin was displayed for a brieften minutes in the entrance,
whichwasdrapedinblack. Aboutahundredpeoplewerewaitingin
thestreet, localtradesmen, othertenantsofthehouse, friendsofthe
family and a few workmen wearing theirshort tunics. The funeral
procession set out, led by Monsieur Rousseau as chiefmourner.
As it passed by, the women ofthe neighbourhood hurriedly
crossed themselves and whispered: 'It's the stationer's wife, isn't
it? The little woman with such a sallow complexion who was all
skin and bones? Ah well, she'll be better offwhere she's going.
Butisn't lifesad! Them with all their money and slavingaway at
their business so as to be able to enjoy their old age. Well, how
will she be enjoying it now?' And they thought Monsieur
Rousseau looked most distinguished as he walked along bare-
headed behind the hearse, all by himself, with his sparse hair
blowing in the wind.
In church the priests made short work ofthe funeral service,
which lasted only forty minutes. Agatha had sat down in the
front row and seemed to be counting the candles. No doubt she
was thinking that her brother-in-law could have been less
ostentatious; after all, ifthere was no will and she inherited half
her sister's estate, she would have to pay her share ofthe funeral
expenses. The priests said a final prayer, theholy watersprinkler
was passed from hand to hand and they left the church. Almost
everybodyslippedaway. Thecarriagesdroveupandahandfulof
ladies climbedinto them. Behindthehearsetherewerenowonly
Monsieur Rousseau, still bareheaded, and about thirty others,
friends who didnot dare to go away. Thehearsewas drapedin a
simple black cloth adorned with a white fringe. The passers-by
raised their hats and walked quickly on.

The Way People Die 117
As Monsieur Rousseau had no family vault, he had merely
taken a five-year concession in the Montmartre cemetery,*
promising himselfto exhume his wife later on and install her in
her permanent resting-place when he had bought a grant in
perpetuity.
The hearse stopped at the end ofan avenue and the coffin was
carried through the low gravestones to a hole dug in the soft
earth. Themournersshifted fromonefoottotheotherinsilence.
The priest mumbled a few words and left. All around there
stretched tiny gardens enclosed in iron railings, graves planted
with wallflowers and evergreens; the white tombstones seemed
quite new and cheerful amidst all this greenery. Monsieur
Rousseau was greatly attracted by one of the stones, a slim
column topped by a symbolic urn. That morning a stone-mason
had calledand pestered him withsuggestions fortombstones. He
reflected that once he had bought his lease in perpetuity, he
wouldhavea similarcolumnerectedwiththesamesortofpretty
vase placed over his wife's grave.
Butnow Agathaledhim away, andwhen theyhadgotback to
the shop she at last decided to raise the question ofclaims on the
estate. Whenshelearnedthattherewasawill, sheshottoherfeet
and flounced out ofthe room, slamming the door behind her.
Thatwasthelasttimeshe'dsetfootinthatpigsty! AndMonsieur
Rousseau still felt a lump in his throat from timetotime, but the
thing which really made him feel fidgety and upset was the
thought that the shop was shut on a weekday.
IV
It had been a hardJanuary. No work and not a bite to eat in the
houseor a lump ofcoal for a fire. The Morisseaus were destitute
and starving. She was a washerwoman and her husband a
bricklayer. They lived in the Rue Cardinet, in the Batignolles*
districtofParis, inagloomyoldhousethatstank tohigh heaven.
Their room on the fifth floor was so dilapidated that the rain
came through the holes in the ceiling. But they would not have
complained ifonly their son Charlie did not need proper food if
he was to grow up into a man.

118 The Way People Die
He was a sickly child who fell ill on the slightest provocation.
Whenhehadbeenfittogotoschoolandhadworkedhard, trying
to learn everything at once, he would come home ill; yet he was
such a bright boy, a little ugly duckling, too good-natured by
halfandveryarticulateforhisage. On thedayswhentheyhadn't
had even a crust ofbread to givehim, his parents would cry like
children, the more so becauselittle children were dying likeflies
in every part ofthe house because it was so insalubrious.
Thestreets wereicedupandsoCharlie'sfatheratlastmanaged
to find ajob. Hehacked theiceoutofthegutters witha pickand
in this way managed to bring home two francs in the evening.
Until building work picked up again, this would atleast manage
to keep the wolffrom the door.
Butonedaywhenhecamehome, hefoundCharlieinbed. His
mother did not know what was the matter with him. She had
sent him over to his aunt's in Courcelles; she was an old-clothes
dealerand mightbeableto finda warmerjacket forhim than his
linen smock, in which he was shivering with cold. His aunt had
onlysomeoldmen'sovercoatswhichweretoolargeandthelittle
lad had come back trembling and looking as fuddled as ifhe had
beendrinking. Now hisfacewasallredasitlayonthepillowand
he was gabbling nonsense: he thought he was playing marbles,
and he was singing snatches ofsongs.
His mother had hung a tattered piece of shawl up at the
windowtocloseoffabrokenpane;therewereonlytwowindow-
panes left uncovered at the top through which you could seethe
livid grey sky. The wardrobe was empty; they wereso poverty-
strickenthat allthebed-linenhadhadto goto the pawnbroker's.
Oneevening, theyhad been forcedto sellatableandtwooftheir
chairs. Charlie had been sleeping on the floor but ever since he
had become ill they had given him their own bed and even that
was not very comfortable, for they had had to remove the wool
from the mattress and sell it to a second-hand dealer, handful by
handful, halfapound atatime, forfourorfivesous. Now itwas
theturn ofthe fatherand mother to sleepontheflooron a straw
palliasse not fit for a dog.
Meanwhile the pair ofthem were watching Charlie twisting
and turning in bed. What was the matter with the kid, ranting
and raving likethat? Perhaps he'd beenbitten bysomeanimal or
someone had given him something bad to drink? Madame

The Way People Die 119
Bonnet, one oftheir neighbours, had come in and, sticking her
face down close to the little boy's, she had announced that he'd
caught a chill. She knew all about it, she'd lost her husband in
exactly the same way.
His mother wept as she held Charlie in her arms. His father
rushed out to fetch a doctor and brought him back with him. He
was a very tall, stern-looking man who listened to the child's back
and tapped his chest without uttering a word. Then Madame
Bonnet had to go back to her room to fetch a pencil and paper for
him to write his prescription. When he had left the room, still
withoutsayingaword, themother, choking withsobs, askedhim:
'What is it, doctor?'
'Pleurisy,'heansweredcurtly, notbotheringtoexplainfurther.
Then he asked:
'Have you got your name down for relief?'
'No, doctor. We weren't too badly offlast summer. It's this
winter that's done for us.'
'That's a pity.'
Andhepromised to call back. Madame Bonnet lent them four
francs for the chemist. With Monsieur Morisseau's two francs
they bought two pounds ofbeef, some coal and some candles.
The first night everything went well. They kept the fire in and
the sick boy, perhaps drowsy from the warmth, had stopped
talkingoutloud. Hislittlehandswereburningbuthisparentsfelt
relieved when they saw him sink into a feverish slumber. Next
day they were horrified to see the doctor shaking his head at the
bedside with a look on his face that seemed to suggest that there
was no hope.
For the next five days there was no change in the boy's
condition. Charlie lay on his pillow in a sleep of exhaustion.
Destitution lurked more threateningly than ever in every corner
ofthe room, like the wind which forced its way in through the
holes in the roofand the window. On the second evening they
sold his mother'slastchemise, on thethird they had topull more
handfulsofwool fromthesick boy'smattresstopaythechemist.
Afterthat, there was nothing elseto do; therewasnothingleftto
sell.
Monsseau still had his two francs a day breaking ice; but they
didn't go very far. As the extreme cold might be the death ofhis
son, hewashopingforathaw, whileatthesametimedreadingit.

120 The Way People Die
Each morning when he went offto work he was pleased to see
the streets all white and then, when he thought ofhis little boy,
he prayed for a ray ofsun, a touch ofspring warmth to clear the
snow away. If only they had had their name down for parish
relief, they would have had the doctor and the medicine for
nothing. Charlie's mother had gone to the local municipal
council's office but they told her that there were too many calls
on their funds at the moment, she'd have to wait. Despite this,
she managed to get some bread coupons and one kind lady gave
her five francs. After that, they were once more completely
destitute.
On the fifth day, Morisseau came back home with his two
francs forthelasttime. Thethaw had startedandhewas laidoff.
That was the end: thestove remained unlit, there was nothing to
eat and they could no longer take the prescriptions down to the
chemist. The father and mother sat shivering with cold in the
room whose walls were dripping with moisture, watching their
young son gasping for breath. Madame Bonnet had stopped
calling on them because she was a sensitive woman and it made
hertoo sad. The peoplelivingin thehousehurried pastthedoor.
Occasionally, the mother would burst into tears and fling herself
on the bed, clasping her son in her arms as though to bring him
relief and make him well. The father stood for hours staring
blankly out ofthe window, lifting up theold shawl to watch the
large drops of melting snow make black spots on the street
below. Perhaps the thaw was helping Charlie to recover.
One morning the doctor announced that he would not be
calling again. There was no hope for the child.
'It's this damp weather that has done it,' he said.
Morisseaushookhisfistatthesky. Soanyweatheratallwould
do in poor wretches like them? It'd been freezing and that was
bad for you; now it was thawing and that was even worse! Ifhis
wifewould agree, he'dheap a bagful ofcoal on thestoveand put
anendtoallthreeofthematonego. Thatwoulddothetrick, the
sooner the better.
. .
However, the mother had gone to the town hall again and this
time they had promised to send relief. So they waited. What a
dreadful day! A dismal chillinvaded theroom fromaboveandin
one corner the rain was coming through and they had to put a
bucketto collect the drips. They had had nothing to eatsincethe

The Way People Die 121
previousdayandtheboyhadhadonlyacupofteatodrinkwhich
had been brought up by the concierge. The father, quite dis-
traught, was sitting at the table holding his throbbing headin his
hands. At every footstep the mother kept rushing to the door,
thinking that at last the promised help had arrived. It struck six;
there was no sign ofanything. Slowly dusk descended, full of
slush, and as sinister as the pangs ofdeath.
Suddenly, in the threatening darkness, Charlie cried out in a
broken voice:
'Mummy! Mummy!'
His mother rushed to the bed. She felt a gasp ofbreath on her
cheek, then silence; she could dimly make out the child's head,
thrown stiffly back on to the pillow. She gave a wild, pitiful cry:
'Bring the light, quickly! Charlie dear, say something to me!'
There were no candles left. In her haste to strike the matches,
she broke them in her fingers. Then, with trembling hands, she
felt her son's face.
'Dear God, he's dead!. Monsseau, hefs dead!'
. .
His father lifted his head, unable to see in the darkness.
'Well, what aboutit? Sohe's dead.
. .
He's betterofflikethat.'
Hearing the mother's sobs, Madame Bonnet decided to make
her appearance, carrying a lamp. Then, as the two women were
laying the child's body straight, there came a knock on the door:
it was the promised aid: ten francs and some bread and meat
coupons. Monsseau gave a hollow laugh and said that the relief
committee always missed the boat. What a poor little corpse it
was, lying thereall thinandaslightas afeather! A sparrowkilled
by the frost and brought in out ofthe street could hardly have
looked much smaller than that tiny heap ofskin and boneon the
mattress.
However, Madame Bonnet had now once again assumed her
helpful role. She was explaining that it wouldn't bnng Charlie
back tolifetohavestarvingpeoplearoundhim. Sheofferedtogo
and fetch bread and meat and added that she would bring some
candles as well. They let her do as she wanted. When she came
back she laid the table and served piping hot sausages which the
ravenous Monsseausseton likehungry wolves, besidetheirdead
boy whose pale little face couldjust be seen in the shadow. The
stove was roaring away; it was very cosy. Now and again big
tears welled up in the mother's eyes and overflowed in big drops

122 The Way People Die
on to her piece of bread. Wouldn't Charlie have been warm!
How he'd have loved the sausage!
Madame Bonnet insisted on keeping watch over the body. At
about one o'clock, after Morisseau had finally dropped off to
sleepwithhis head restingontheendofthebed, thetwowomen
made some coffee. Another neighbour, an eighteen-year-old
dressmaker, was invited in and in return for the hospitality
brought along a little brandy left in the bottom ofa bottle. The
threesatsippingtheircoffee, tellingeachotherwhisperedtalesof
weirdsortsofdeaths; graduallytheirvoicesgrewlouderandtheir
gossip widened its scope to include the house, the neighbour-
hood, a crimethathad been committedintheRueNollet.* Now
and again, the mother stood up and would go over to look at
Charlie, as though making sure he hadn't moved.
Since they had notnotified the death thatevening, they had to
keep the little boy for the whole ofthenext day; and as they had
only one room, they lived with Charlie, ate with him and slept
with him. Occasionally they forgot all about him; then, when
they suddenly remembered, theirlosscamebackto themallover
again.
Finally, on the second day, the coffin was delivered, no bigger
than a toy-box, made offour roughly-planed wooden planks; it
had been provided free by the municipality on the grounds of
certified poverty. And now, it was offto church at the double!
Following Charlie were his father with two ofhis pals whom he
had met on the way, then his mother with Madame Bonnet and
their other neighbour, the little dressmaker. Everybody was
floundering in mud up to their calves. It was not raining but the
fog was so thick that it was soaking their clothes. At the church
thepriestmadeshortworkofthefuneralserviceandthenoffthey
dashed again over the slippery, wet paving stones.
The cemetery was miles away, beyond thefortifications. They
went down the Avenue de Saint-Ouen, beyond the gates ofthe
city limits, and finally they arrived. The cemetery was a vast
enclosed space, a wastelandshut in by white walls. Itwas full of
weeds and dug up into mounds ofearth whileinthebackground
there stretched out a row ofgaunt trees whose branches made
black smudges against the sky.
The funeral procession struggled forward slowly over the
soddensoil. Ithad started to rainand theyhad to waitfortheold

The Way People Die 123
priesttodecidetoventureoutoftheshelterofhis chapel. Charlie
was going to his last rest in the bottom ofa paupers' grave. The
field was scattered with crosses blown down by the wind and
wreaths rotted by the rain, a field full ofmourning and poverty,
ravaged and trampled over, overflowing with the heaped-up
corpses of the cold and hungry poor from the working-class
suburbs ofParis.
Now it was all over. The soil slid down on to Charlie lying at
thebottomofhislittleholeandhisparentswentoffwithouteven
being able to kneel down beside his grave in the slimy mud that
came up to their ankles. Outside the cemetery, as the rain had
stopped, Morisseau, who still had three francs left over from the
charityboard'srelief, invitedhis twopalsandthetwoneighbours
to a drink in a wineshop. They sat down at thetable and drank a
couple of litres of wine and ate a piece of Brie. Then his pals
offered another round ofthe same. When the company got back
to Paris, they were very merry.
Jean-Louis Lacour was seventy years old. He had been born and
had grown old in La Courtelle, a tiny hamlet ofa hundred and
fifty souls, tucked away in the wilds amongst the wolves. In the
course ofhis whole life he had been to Angers,* less than forty
miles away, on one occasion only; and at that time he had been
too young to remember anything about it. He had had three
children, two sons, Antoine and Joseph, and a daughter
Catherine. She had married, her husband had died and she had
goneback to live with herfather, together with hertwelve-year-
old sonJacquinet. The family lived on a small farm which was
just large enough to provide them with food and the bare
necessities ofclothing. They couldnot bedescribed as belonging
tothepoorofthedistrictbuttheyhadtoworkhard. Theyhadto
earn their bread with a mattock and their glass ofwinehad come
from the sweat oftheir brow.
La Courtelle lies hidden at the end ofa valley, shut in on all
sides by woods. The parish was too poor to have a church; Mass
was said by the priest from neighbouring Cormiers and, as it
involved a five-milejourney, hecameonlyoncea fortnight. The

124 The Way People Die
houses, a score oframshackle old cottages, stretched higgledy-
piggledly along the one main street. Hens pecked about in the
dung in front ofthe houses and the sight ofa stranger passing
through along the road was so extraordinary that all the women
would crane their necks while the children basking in the sun
would run off, screaming like scared animals.
Jean-Louis had never had a day's illness in his life. He was
tall and as gnarled as an oak. The sun had baked his skin until
it had the colour and toughness and stillness of a tree. With
advancing years, he had lost his tongue. He now never spoke,
considering such an activity pointless. He kept his gaze fixed on
the ground and his body was permanently bent in an attitude
ofwork.
Last year he had been even more energetic than his sons,
reserving all the heaviest tasks for himself, working away in
silence in his field which seemed to know him and be in awe of
him. But one day, two months ago, he had fallen down and for
twohours had lainlikea felledtreeoverafurrow. Thefollowing
day, hehad gone offto work again and then, all ofa sudden, his
arms had given way and the earth refused to obey him. His sons
hadshakentheirheadsandhisdaughterhadwantedhimtostayat
home. But he had put his foot down and so they had sent
Jacquinet along to keep him company and give a shout if his
grandfather were to fall over.
'Whatareyoudoinghere, younglazybones?'saidJean-Louisto
the lad, who was hanging about him all the time. 'When I was
your age, I was earning my keep.'
'I'm looking after you, Grandpa,' replied the boy.
This remark broughtJean-Louis up with a start. He said no
more. That evening when he came home, he went to bed and
stayed there. Next day, when his sons and daughter went offto
the fields, they came in to look at their father, sincethey hadnot
heard him stirring. They found the sick man lying stretched out
in bed with his eyes open. He seemed to be thinking. His skin
was so tanned and leathery that they could not see the colour of
his face.
'Well, Dad, feeling out ofsorts?'
He grunted and shook his head.
'All right, ifyou're not coming with us, we'll be offand leave
you here.'

The Way People Die 125
He made a sign for them to go offwithout him. The harvest
hadbegunandeveryhandwasneeded. Iftheymissedamorning's
work, there might even be a storm which would blow the
sheaves away. Even Jacquinet went along with his uncles and
mother. Old Lacour was left behind alone. When they returned
home that evening, they found him still in the same position,
lying flat on his back with his eyes open and still seeming to be
thinking.
'Well, Dad, feeling any better?'
No, he was not feeling any better. He gave a grunt and shook
his head. What could be done for him, then? Catherine had the
idea ofheating some wine up with herbs. But it was too strong
andnearlykilledhim.Josephsaidthey'dseeaboutitnextdayand
they all went to bed.
Next day, before going offon their harvesting, the sons and
daughter gathered round his bed for a minu« or two. The old
manwasdefinitelyill. Neverbeforehadheremainedlyingonhis
back like this. Perhaps they'd better send for the doctor after all?
Thetroublewasthatit wouldmeangoingtoRougemont, twelve
miles thereandtwelvemilesback; that made a good twenty-four
miles in all. You'd be losing a whole day's work. The old man,
who was listening to his children, startedto becomeagitated and
seemedtobeannoyed. Hedidn'tneedadoctor. Itcosttoomuch.
'Youdon'twantusto?' Antoineasked. 'All right, socanwego
offto work, then?'
Ofcoursetheycouldgooffto work! Whatgoodcouldtheydo
ifthey stayed? The soil needed looking after more than he did.
When he kicked the bucket, that only concerned God and him,
but ifthe harvest werelost, everyone wouldsuffer. And so three
days went by with the children going offevery morning to the
fields and Jean-Louis lying quite still, all alone, taking a drink
from ajug when he got thirsty. He was like an old horse falling
down inexhaustion and being lefttodieinacorner. Hehadbeen
working for sixty years and now hecould takehis leave, because
he would merely be taking up space and getting in his children's
way. Would you hesitate to cut a tree down when its branches
started falling off? Even his children were not feeling any great
emotion. Working on the land had made them used to such
things and they lived too close to it to feel any resentment ifit
wantedtotakehim fromthem. A brieflook in the morninganda

126 The Way People Die
brief look at night was all they could afford. If their father
recoveredafterall, itwouldprovethathewastough. Ifhedied, it
would mean that Death had taken up his abode in his body and
everyone knows that when that happens, nothing can turn him
out, whetherit be medicineorsigns ofthecross. Ofcourse, you
wouldcare for a sick cow, becausesaving a cow means saving at
least four hundred francs.
Every eveningJean-Louis looked questioningly at his children
for news of the harvest. When he heard them calculating the
numberofsheavesanddiscussingthefineweatherthatwashelping
them to bring in the harvest, his eyes gave a flicker ofapproval.
They again considered the possibility ofsending fora doctor but
decidedthatitreallywastoofar.Jacquinetwouldneverbeableto
go that distance and the men could not spare the time. The only
thing theold man wantedwas forthe game-keeper, anold crony
ofhis, to come and see him. Old Nicholas was older thanJean-
Louisbecausehehadhadhisseventy-fifthbirthdayatCandlemas.
But he was as upright as a poplar. He came and sat down beside
his old friend, shaking his head. Jean-Louis had been unable to
speak since that morning and he lay looking at him through his
pale blue eyes. Old Nicholas, himself a man of few words,
merely sat watching him too, unable to find anything to say. So
the two old men stayed face to face for a good hour without
uttering a word but glad to see each other, doubtless going over
intheirmindseventsfromthefardistantpast. Itwasthatevening
that, when they camehome, thechildrenfound oldLacourdead,
stretched out stiffly in his bed, his eyes staring at the ceiling.
Yes, the old man had died without stirring a limb and his last
breath had left his body to become one with all the otherbreaths
of Mother Nature. Like animals which hide away to die un-
complainingly, hehadn'tdisturbedtheneighbours, hehadcarried
outhis lastduty all by himself, perhaps apologetically becausehe
was giving his children the trouble ofdisposing ofhis body.
'Father's dead,' said Antoine to the others; and the others,
Joseph, Catherine and evenJacquinet, repeated:
'Father's dead.'
Noonewassurprised.Jacquinetpeeredinquisitively, Catherine
pulled out her handkerchief, the two men walked around in
solemn silence, pale underneath their tan. Their old man had
hung on pretty well, say what you would, he was still pretty

The Way People Die 127
tough! Andthechildren feltconsoledandproud atthethoughtof
how tough the family was. That night, they watched over their
father's body till ten o'clock and then they all fell asleep; Jean-
Louis was once more left on his own, with his staring eyes. At
first light, Joseph went offto Cormiers to warn the priest. But
there were still some sheaves to be got in, so Antoine and
Catherine went out to the fields, leavingJacquinet to look after
the corpse.
The little boy became bored at having to stay with his
grandfather, so every now and again he would go out into the
street to throw stones at the sparrows and watch a pedlar busily
displaying his silk scarves to two of the neighbours; then,
remembering the old man, he would rush back indoors to make
surethat hehadn't moved, but soon slipped outagain to watch a
coupleofdogsfighting. Sincehehadleftthedooropen, thehens
came in and walked undisturbed round the bed, vigorously
peckingthemud floor. A scarletcockerelstoodontiptoe, craning
hisneckandpeeringupwardswithhisfieryredeyeswideopenin
astonishment at seeing a bodylying stretchedout so inexplicably
on the bed. It was a cautious and sagacious cock who knew that
the old man was not accustomed to stay in bed once the sun was
up. Finally, he gave his loud clarion crow; perhaps he had
understood and was singing his own funeral song for the dead
man, while the hens took their departure one by one, clucking
and pecking at the earth.
Theparish priestofCormiers letitbeknownthathecouldnot
come over until about four o'clock. Meanwhile, ever since
morning, the wheelwright could be heard sawing wood and
hammering nails. Those who did not already know said: 'Ah,
Jean-Louis must have died', because the villagers were familiar
with such sounds. Antoine and Catherine had come back from
the fields; the harvest was over. They could not say that they
were disappointed; they had not seen such good corn for years.
The whole family now waited patiently for the priest, keeping
themselvesoccupiedinordertodistracttheirthoughts: Catherine
put the soup on whileJoseph fetched water from the well. They
sent Jacquinet to find out if the grave had been dug in the
cemetery. It was not until five o'clock that the priest finally
arrived in a gig, with a youngster who acted as his altar-boy. He
stoppedin front ofthe Lacours' door,jumped down andtook his

128 The Way People Die
stole and surplice out ofa paper bag. Whilehe was putting them
on, he said:
'Hurry up, I've got to be back by seven.'
However, nobody hurried. They had to go and ask two
friendlyneighbourstocarrythebier. Thesamebierandthesame
blackcloth, worm-eaten, wornandfaded, hadbothbeenusedfor
the last fifty years. The old man was lifted up and placed by his
children in the coffin that had been brought round by the
wheelwright. It was made ofsuch thick wood that it looked like
an old kneading trough. Just as they were about to set off,
Jacquinetdashedupwiththenews thattheholewasnotyetquite
dug but that they could come along all the same.
The priest led the procession, reading in a loud voice out ofa
book in Latin. Next came the little altar-boy carrying an old
copperholy waterholderwitha holywatersprinklerinit. Itwas
not until they were halfway through the village that another lad
cameout ofthe barn in which Mass was said every fortnightand
wentaheadoftheprocessioncarryingalargecrossfastenedtothe
end of a stick. Then came the body on a bier carried by two
peasants and, finally, the family. Gradually the whole village
joined the procession and a crowd of ragged little urchins,
bareheaded and barefooted, brought up the rear.
The cemetery lies at the other end ofLa Courtelle, so that the
two peasants twicehad to put down the bieron thewayinorder
briefly to get back their breath and spit on their hands, whilethe
procession came to a halt. Then offthey went again; you could
hear the tramp ofwooden clogs on the hard earth. When they
reached the cemetery, the hole was not, in fact, quite ready. The
gravedigger could be seen still working at the bottom ofthe pit,
bending down and then reappearing at regular intervals with
spadefuls ofearth.
How peaceful the cemetery was as it slumbered in the bright
sun! It was surrounded by a hedge where warblers nested and
every September the boys ofthe village would come along and
pick blackberries. It was like a garden planted in open country,
with everything growing at random. At the far end, there were
enormous currantbushes andinonecornera peartree, grown to
the size ofan oak. Down the middle ran an avenue oflimes, a
cool walk in the heat ofsummer, and the old men ofthe village
would come to smoke their pipes in its shade. The uncultivated

The Way People Die 129
emptypieceoflandwas coveredin tall weeds; superbthistlesand
other wild flowers spread out in colourful display and clouds of
white butterflies were swarming and swooping. The sun was
blazing, grasshoppers were chirping and bright golden flies were
buzzing in the shimmering heat. In the silence, quivering with
life, you could detect the finaljoyous paean ofthe dead, the rich
sap ofthe earth burgeoning in the red blood ofthe poppies.
They had placed the coffin down beside the hole, while the
gravedigger went on throwing up his spadefuls of earth. The
boy carrying the cross had quickly stuck it into the earth at the
dead man's feet and at his head the priest stood reciting Latin
from his book. The villagers' main interest was in the grave-
digger. They stood in a circle round the hole watching the
movementofhisspade. Andwhentheylookedup, thepriesthad
vanished with the two lads and the only people left were the
waiting family.
At last the hole was ready.
'Come on, that's deep enough!' shouted one ofthe peasants
who had been carrying the bier.
And everybody lent a hand in lowering the coffin. Yes, old
Lacourwould be comfortablein thathole! Heknew all about the
earth and the earth knew all about him. They'd get on well
together. Fifty years ago when hehad struck thefirst blowofhis
mattock into it, the earth had made this final appointment with
him, forthepairofthem. Theirloveaffairhadbeenboundtoend
like this; the soil would take and hold him tight. And what a
peaceful place to rest in! He would hear only the light-footed
birdshoppingin thegrass;nooneelsewouldtreadonhimandhe
would remain in his corner undisturbed for years, because not
two people died each year in La Courtelle and the young could
growoldintheirturnanddiewithoutdisturbinghisoldbones.
It
was a peaceful, sunny death, a sleep without end in the calm of
the countryside.
His children came up to the grave. Catherine, Antoine and
Joseph each took a handful ofearth and castiton to theold man.
Jacquincthadbeencollectingpoppiesandhethrewthemonatthe
same time. Then the family made its way home, the animals
returnedfromthefields, thesunsankbeneath thehorizonandthe
warm night sent the drowsy villagers to sleep.

COQUEVILLE ON THE SPREE
COQUEVILLE is a little village snuggling down in a rocky inlet
five miles from Grandport. A fine broad sandy beach stretches
out at the foot ofthe ramshackle old cottages stuck halfway up
the cliff-face like shells left high and dry by the tide. When you
climb to the left, up on to the heights ofGrandport, you can see
theyellowexpanseofbeachveryplainlytothewest, lookinglike
atideofgolddustflowingoutofthegapingslitintherock;andif
you have good eyes, you can even make out the tumbledown
cottages standing out, rust-coloured against the stone, with the
bluish smoke from their chimneys drifting upwards to the crest
ofthe enormous ridge blocking the horizon.
It's an out-of-the-way hole. Coquevillehas neversucceededin
bringing its population up to the two hundred mark. The gorge
running down to the sea, on the edge of which the village is
situated, is so steep and winding that it is almost impassable for
horses and carts. This prevents communication and isolates the
villageso that it seems miles away from any oftheneighbouring
hamlets. As a result, the inhabitants' only communication with
Grandport was by water. They were almost all fishermen living
from the sea and had to transport their catch thereby boatevery
day. They had a contract with a large firm of wholesalers,
Dufeu's, which bought their fish in bulk. Old Dufeu had been
dead for some years but the business had been carried on by his
widow; she had merely taken on an assistant, a tall fair-headed
young fellow called Mouchel, whosejob was to visit the villages
along the coast and strike bargains with the villagers. This
MonsieurMouchelwastheonlylinkbetweenCoquevilleandthe
civilized world.
Coqueville deserves to have an historian. It seems certain that
inthe Dark Ages thevillagewas founded by theMahes, a family
which found its way there, settled down and proliferated at the
foot of the cliff. At first, the Mahes must have flourished by
intermarriage, since for centuries you find nothing but Mahes.
Then, under Louis XIII,* thereappeared a Floche. Noone really
knows where he came from. He married a Mahe and from that
moment onwards a strange phenomenon occurred: the Floches

Coqueuille on the Spree 131
prospered and were so prolific that they ended up by engulfing
the Mahes, whose numbers decreased while their wealth passed
into the newcomers' hands. Doubtless the Floches had brought
new blood, a sturdier constitution and a temperament more
suitedtofacethestrongwindsandrough seasoftheirprofession.
However that might be, the Floches were by now the bosses of
Coqueville.
Youwillhaverealizedthatthisshiftinnumbersandwealthhad
nottakenplacewithoutterriblestrife. TheMahesand theFloches
hated each other like poison; centuries of loathing seethed
between them. Despite their decline, the Mahes were proud, as
befittedaformerconqueror. Afterall, theywerethefoundersand
ancestors. They would speak with scorn of the first of the
Floches, a beggar and a tramp whom they had taken into their
bosoms out ofpity, and they expressed eternal regret at having
given him one oftheir daughters. Ifyou were to believe them,
this Flochehadproducednothingbutabreedoflewdrogueswho
spent their nights in copulation and their days in pursuit of
heiresses. There was no insult too foul to heap on the powerful
tribe of Floches, with the bitter fury of ruined and decimated
aristocrats against the arrogant and prolific middle classes who
had dispossessed them of their mansions and their wealth that
were theirs by right ofinheritance. Needless to say, success had
turned theFloches, on theirpart, into an arrogantlot. They were
sitting pretty and could afford to sneer. They made fun ofthe
ancient race ofMahe and swore to turn them out ofthe village if
theydidn'tknuckleunder. Forthem, theMahes weredown-and-
outs who, instead of wrapping themselves proudly in their
tattered finery, would be better employed mending it. Thus
Coqueville found itselfthe prey oftwo warring clans; about one
hundred and thirty ofits inhabitants determined to take over the
other fifty, for no other reason than that they were stronger.
Struggles between mighty empires tell the same story.
Amongst the recent squabbles which had been tearing
Coqueville apart, we may mention the famous feud between
Fouasse and Tupain and the spectacular brawls between the
Rougetcouple. Itmustbeexplainedthatin theolddayseveryone
wasgivenanickname, whichlateron becameasurname, because
it was difficultto disentangleall thecross-breedings ofMaheand
Floche. Rouget had certainly once had an ancestor who had

132 Coqueville on the Spree
flaming red hair; as for Fouasse and Tupain, no one knew the
reason for their names, since in the course of the years many
nicknames hadlostanyrationalexplanation. Well, old Franchise,
a sprightly old girl ofeighty, still alive, had married a Mahe and
produced Fouasse; then, after being widowed, had remarried a
Floche and given birth to Tupain. Hence the mutual antagonism
ofthetwo brothers, ahatred kept aliveby the fact thatquestions
ofinheritance were involved. As for the Rougets, they fought
like cat and dog because Rouget accused his wife Marie of
carrying on with a dark-haired Floche, the tall and sturdy
Brisemotte.*Rougethadalreadyflunghimselfacoupleoftimeson
thelatter, knifein hand, screaming thathe wouldhavehis guts for
garters. He was an excitable little man, always flying into rages.
But Coqueville's major concern at the moment was neither
Rouget's rages nor Tupain's and Fouasse's squabbles. There was
a wild rumour going round that a Mahe, Delphin, a whipper-
snapper oftwenty, had the audacity to be in love with Margot,
the beautiful daughterofLa Queue, the wealthiest ofthe Floches
and mayorofthe village. This La Queuewas a very considerable
person indeed. He was called La Queue because under Louis-
Philippe, his father, obstinately clinging to fashions prevalent in
his youth, had been the last man in the village to tie his hair in a
pigtail.* Now La Queueowned Zephyr, oneofCoqueville'stwo
large fishing boats and by far the best, a fine seaworthy vessel,
newly built. The other cutter was the Whale, a rotten old tub
owned byRougetand manned by Delphinand Fouasse, whileLa
Queue sailed with a crew consisting ofTupain and Brisemotte.
The latter were always making sarcastic comments about the
Whale, describing it as an old tub which, one fine day, would
disintegratelike a handful ofmud. So when La Queueheard that
this good-for-nothing young Delphin, the Whale's cabin-boy,
was daring to make sheep's eyes at his daughter, he gave her a
couple of well-directed slaps in the face as a warning that she
wouldneverbecomea Mahe. Margotwas furiousandresponded
byloudlyproclaimingthatshewouldpassonthesametreatment
to Delphin ifheeverhad thenerve to start prowling around her.
It Was maddening to have your ears boxed because ofa young
man whom you'd never really bothered to look at properly.
Although only sixteen, Margot was as strong as a man and
alreadyaslovelyasanylady; shehadthereputationofbeinghigh

Coqueville on the Spree 133
and mighty, a young madam who had no time for sweethearts.
So you can well understand how those two slaps, Delphin's
audacity and Margot's anger had kept every tongue wagging in
Coqueville.
However, there were people who said that Margot was not as
angry as all that at seeing Delphin hanging around her. This
Delphin was a small young fellow with a face tanned by the sea
anda mop ofblondcurlsthathung downoverhiseyes andneck.
And, despite his slender build, he was very strong and quite
capable oftackling someone three times his size. Rumour had it
thathewouldsometimesgooffandspendthenightinGrandport.
This gavehim a reputationwiththegirls ofbeing somethingofa
wolf, and whentalkingtogethertheywouldaccusehimof'living
it up', a vague phrase which suggested all kinds of secret
pleasures. Whenevershe mentioned his name, Margot seemed to
become rather too excited, while when he looked at her through
his tiny bright eyes, he would give a sly grin and show not the
slightest concern whether she was angry or scornful. He would
walk past her front door, slip into the bushes and stay watching
her for hours, as lithe and patient as a cat stalking a tom-tit; and
when she suddenly discovered him right behind her, so close at
times that she would detect his presence by the warmth ofhis
breath, he did not take himself off but would put on such a
gentle, wistful look that she was left speechless with surpriseand
remembered to be annoyed only after he had gone. There is no
doubt that, had her father seen her, she would have collected
anotherboxontheears. Thingscouldcertainlynotgoonlikethis
forever; but although she kept swearing that one day she would
giveDelphinthepromised boxon theears, sheneverinfacttook
advantage ofany opportunity of doing so when he was there.
This made people say that she'd do better not to keep on talking
so much about it, since the truth was that she still had given no
sign ofkeeping her word.
All thesame, nobodyeverimaginedthatshewouldevermarry
Delphin. Itseemedmerelyacaseofapassingfancybyaflirtatious
young girl. As for marriage between the most poverty-stricken
ofthe Mahes, who would find it hard to contribute even halfa
dozenshirts tothe matrimonial estate, andthe mayor's daughter,
the richest heiress among the Floches, the whole idea would be
monstrous. Unkind people hinted that she might none the less

134 Coqueville on the Spree
quitepossibly gettogether withhim butthat shewouldcertainly
never marry him. A rich girl can enjoy herselfas she pleases but
when she has her head screwed on straight, she doesn't do
anything silly. Anyway, the whole ofCoqueville was taking a
passionate interest in the matter and was curious to see the
outcome. Would Delphin end up getting his ears boxed? Or
would Margot get a kiss on her cheek in some remote corner of
the cliffs? They'd have to wait and see. Some people supported
the box on theears, others the kiss on the cheek. Coquevillewas
all agog.
In the whole village there were only two people who did not
belong eitherto the Maheor the Floche camps: thepriest andthe
gamekeeper. The latter, a tall lean man whose real name no one
knew but whom everyone called the Emperor*, doubtless
because he had served under Charles X, in fact exercised no
serious supervision whatsoever over the game of the district,
whichconsistedofnothing butbarerockanddesertedheathland.
Hehad gotthejob becauseasous-prefet* hadtaken himunderhis
wingandhadcreatedonhisbehalfthissinecurewherehewasfree
to squander his very modest salary undisturbed. As for Father
Radiguet, he was one of those simple-minded priests whose
bishops are anxious to get rid ofby tucking them away in some
God-forsakenhole wherethey can stay outofmischief. Radiguet
was a decent sort ofman who had reverted to his peasantorigins
and spent his time working in his exiguous little garden hewn
out of the rock-face, and smoking his pipe as he watched his
lettuces grow. His only weakness was a love offood, although
he was hardlyin a position toshow adiscriminating palate, since
he was forced to make do with a diet of mackerel and cider,
ofwhich he sometimes drank more than he could hold. All the
same, he was a good shepherd to his flock and they would come
along, at infrequent intervals, to hear him say Mass, purely to
oblige him.
However, aftermanagingtoremainneutralforalongtime, the
priest and the gamekeeper had been forced to take sides. Con-
servativeatheart, theEmperorhadoptedfortheMaheswhilethe
priest had become a Flochite. This had given rise to complica-
tions. As the Emperor had absolutely nothing to do all day long
and was tired ofcounting the boats leaving Grandport harbour,
hehad taken it into his head to act as the village policeman. As a

Coqueville on the Spree 135
Mahe supporter, he favoured Fouasse against Tupain, tried to
catch Brisemotte and Rouget's wife red-handed and, above all,
turned a blind eye when he saw Delphin slipping into Margot's
back-yard. The trouble was that these goings-on led to violent
disagreement between him and his direct superior, the mayor La
Queue. While being sufficiently respectful ofdiscipline to listen
tothemayor'srebukes, thegamekeeperwouldthengoaway and
do as he thought fit, thereby causing complete chaos in
Coqueville's public administration. You could never go near the
glorifiedshedthatservedasCoqueville'stownhallwithoutbeing
deafenedby thesoundofsomeflaming roworotherbetween the
two. Father Radiguet, on the other hand, having joined the
triumphant clan ofthe Floches, who showered him with gifts of
superb mackerel, secretly encouraged Rouget's wife to stand up
to her husband and threatened Margot with all the torments of
hell ifshe ever let Delphin lay as much as a finger on her. In a
word, anarchy reigned supreme, with the army in revolt against
the civil authority and religion conniving at the frolics of the
wealthier members of his flock, so that, in this dead-and-alive
littleholelookingoutupontheinfiniteexpanseoftheskyandthe
vastsweepoftheocean, youhadawholecommunityoffullyone
hundred and eighty souls at daggers drawn with each other.
In the midst ofall this turmoil, Delphin alone never lost his
goodspirits; youngandinloveashewas, hedidnotgiveadamn
for anything or anybody, as long as Margot would one day be
his. He may well have been planning to snare her like a rabbit,
butbeingasensibleladdespitehis wild ways, hewasgoingtosee
toitthatthepriestshouldtietheknotthatwouldensurethatthey
would live happily ever after.
One evening as he was lying in wait for her in a lane, Margot
finally took a swing at him and then blushed purple in confusion
when, instead ofwaiting for the blow to land, Delphin caught
hold ofher hand and feverishly covered it in kisses.
She was trembling as he whispered to her:
'I love you. Will you love me?'
'Never!' she cried in a shocked voice.
Hegaveashrugofhisshouldersand saidquietly, withatender
look in his eyes:
Please don't say that. We'll get on very well together, the
. .
pair ofus. You'll seejust how nice it is.'

136 Coqueville on the Spree
That Sunday, the weather was dreadful, one ofthose sudden
Septemberstormswhichblowupwithterribleforceontherocky
coastroundGrandport. As duskwas falling, Coquevillecaughta
glimpse ofa vessel in distress being driven before the wind. But
the light was failing and there was no question ofgoing to her
rescue. Since the previous day, Zephyr and the Whale had been
tied up in the tiny natural harbour to the left of the beach,
betweenthetwogranitesea-walls. NeitherLaQueuenorRouget
were going to risk venturing out. Unfortunately, Madame
Dufeu'srepresentative, MonsieurMouchel, hadtakenthetrouble
to come over personally on Saturday to offer a bonus if they
madearealeffort: catches werepoorandtheCentral Market was
complaining. So whenthey wentto bed on Sunday with the rain
stillpeltingdown, thefishermenofCoquevillewerebad-tempered
and full ofgrumbles. It was always thesame old story: when the
demand was good, the fish just weren't there. And they all
discussed the ship that had been seen passing during the gale and
which by now was no doubt lying at the bottom ofthe ocean.
Next day the sky was still black and the sea running high,
booming and thundering and reluctant to calm down, even
though the wind was blowing less strongly. It then dropped
completely and though the waves were still rearing and tossing
furiously, bothboats wentoutthatafternoon. Zephyrreturnedat
about four o'clock, having caught nothing. While Tupain and
Brisemotte were tying up in the little harbour, La Queue stood
on the beach, shaking his fist angrily at the sea. And Monsieur
Mouchel wasexpectingsomething fromthem! Margotwas there
with half Coqueville, watching the heavy swell of the dying
storm and sharing her father's resentment against the sea and the
sky.
'Where's the WhaleV someone asked.
'Over there, behind the point,' replied La Queue. 'Ifthat old
tub gets back safe and sound today, it'll be lucky.'
His voice was full ofscorn. He went on to suggest that it was
quite understandable for the Mahes to risk their lives like that;
when you haven't got two pennies to rub together, you don't
havemuchchoice. Asforhim, he'dsoonerletMonsieurMouchel
go begging.

Coqueville on the Spree 137
Meanwhile Margot was scrutinizing the rocky point behind
which the Whale was hidden. Finally she asked her father:
'Did they catch anything?'
'Them!' he exclaimed. 'Not a thing!'
Noticing that theEmperorwas grinning, hecalmed down and
added more quietly:
'I don't know if they've caught anything but as they never
do...'
'Perhaps they have caught something today after all,' said the
Emperor teasingly. 'It has been known to happen.'
La Queue was about to make a heated retort when Father
Radiguet arrived and succeeded in soothing him. From the flat
top of the church, Radiguet had just caught a glimpse of the
Whale which seemed to be in pursuit of some large fish. This
news created great excitement among the villagers gathered on
the beach, with the Mahe supporters hoping for a miraculous
catchandtheFlochesverykeenfortheboattocomebackempty-
handed. Margot was craning her neck and looking out to sea.
'There they are!' she exclaimed briefly.
And in fact a black speck could be seen beyond the point.
Everyone looked. It looked like a cork bobbing up and down
on the sea. The Emperor couldnoteven seetheblack speck: you
had to be from Coqueville to recognize the Whaleand its crew at
that distance.
'Yes,' Margot went on, for she had the best eyes ofanyone in
the village, 'Fouasse and Rouget are rowing and the boy's
standing in the bow.'
She called Delphin 'the boy' to avoid mentioning him by
name. Now they were able to follow the course ofthe boat and
try to understand its strange manoeuvres. As the priest had said,
it seemed to be pursuing a fish which kept swimming away to
escape. It was an extraordinary sight. The Emperor thought that
theirnethadprobablybeencarriedaway butLaQueueexclaimed
that they werejust being lazy and footling about. They wouldn't
becatching seals, that was for sure! The Floches all found this an
hilarious remark while the Mahes felt annoyed and pointed out
that anyway Rouget had guts and was risking his life while
certain other people stuck to dry land at the slightest puff of
wind. Once again, Father Radiguet had to intervene because fists
were being clenched.

138 Coqueuille on the Spree
'What on earth are they up to!' exclaimed Margot suddenly.
'They've gone again!'
TheyallstoppedgloweringateachOtherandeveryonescanned
the horizon. Once more the Whale was hidden behind the point.
This time, even La Queue was becoming uneasy. Since he was
unable to explain to himselfwhat they were doing, and fearing
that Rouget might really be making a good catch, he was beside
himselfwith rage. No one left the beach even though there was
nothing particular to see. They stayed there for two hours, still
waiting for theboat whichkeptappearingandthen vanishing. In
theenditdisappearedaltogether. La Queuedeclareditmusthave
gone to the bottom and in his anger he even found himself
wishing in his heart of hearts that this might be true; and as
Rouget'swifehappenedtobepresentwithBrisemotte, helooked
atthem with a conspiratorial grin and gaveTupain a friendly tap
on the shoulder to console him for the loss ofhis half-brother
Fouasse. But he stopped laughing when he saw his daughter
Margot on tiptoe peering silently into the distance.
'What do you think you're doing here?',he said gruffly. 'Off
you go back home. And have a care, Margot!'
. .
She made no move but suddenly called out:
'Look, there they are!'
There was a cryofsurprise. With her sharpeyes, Margot swore
that she couldn't see a soul on board. No Rouget, no Fouasse,
nobody! The Whale was running before the wind as though
abandoned, changing tack every minute as it bobbed lazily up and
down. Fortunatelyabreezehadsprungupfromthewestwhichwas
driving the boat landwards, in an oddly capricious way, so that it
yawedfirsttoportandthentostarboard. ThewholeofCoqueville
wasbynowassembledonthebeach. Everybodywascallingoutto
everyone else and there was not a woman or a girl left at hometo
prepare the supper. It could only be some sort ofdisaster, some-
thinginexplicableandsomysteriousthattheyall feltquiteataloss.
Rouget's wife thought quickly and decided that she ought to burst
intotears. ThemostTupaincoulddowastolookmiserable. Allthe
Mahes were looking distressed while the Floches were trying hard
toshowsomedecorum. Margothadsatdownonthebeachasifher
legs had suddenly collapsed.
'What on earth are you doing there?' exclaimed La Queue,
seeing her at his feet.

Coqueville on the Spree 139
'I'm tired,' she said simply.
Andshe turned herhead to lookout to sea, holdingher facein
herhands andpeering throughthetipsofherfingersatthe Whale
bobbing up and down even more lazily, like a cheerful boat that
has had too much to drink.
Theories werenowflyingthickandfast. Perhapsthethreemen
had fallen intothe sea? But forall threeto do thatatonceseemed
veryodd. LaQueuewastryingtopersuadepeoplethatthe Whale
had split open like a rotten egg. But as she was still afloat, the
others merely shrugged their shoulders. Then he remembered
thathewas mayorandbegan totalk aboutvarious formalities, as
ifthe men were really drowned.
'What's the point oftalking like that!' exclaimed the Emperor.
'How could people die as stupidly as that? If they'd fallen in,
Delphin would have been here by now!'
They all had to agree; Delphin could swim like a fish. But in
that case, where on earth could the three men be? Everyone was
shouting. 'I'm telling you it is!' 'And I'm telling you it isn't!'
'Stupid!' 'Stupid yourself!' And they were getting to the stage of
exchangingblows, sothatFatherRadiguetwasforcedtomakean
appealforthecessationofhostilitieswhiletheEmperorhurriedly
triedtorestoreorder. Meanwhiletheboatcontinuedtoboblazily
up and down under everyone's eyes. It was as though she was
dancing and laughingat themall andas shedrifted inonthetide,
she seemed to be greeting the approaching land with a series of
slow, rhythmicalcurtsies. Shewasacrazyboat, thatwasforsure!
Margot was still hiding her face and peering through her
hands. A rowing-boathadjust putout from theharbour to goto
meet the Whale: losing patience, Brisemotte seemed anxious to
put an end to Marie Rouget's uncertainty. Now Coqueville's
whole attention was focused on the rowing-boat. They started
shouting: Couldheseeanything?The Whalekeptcomingon, still
looking mysteriousandsaucy. Atlastthey sawhimcatch holdof
one of the mooring ropes and stand up to look into the boat.
Then suddenly he burst into fits of laughter. They were all
mystified. What could he see that was so funny?
'Hi there! What's up?' they shouted excitedly. His only reply
was to go on laughing even moreloudly, making signs that they
were soon going to find out. Then he tied the Whale to his own
boat and towed her in. And the inhabitants ofCoqueville were

140 Coqueville on the Spree
stunned at the extraordinary sight that met their eyes. The three
men, Rouget, Fouasse and Delphin, were lying flat on their
backs, fast asleep, blissfully snoring and dead drunk. In the
middle, therelaya small cask thathad been stovedin, a cask that
hadbeenfullwhentheyhadpickeditup. Theyhadbeendrinking
from itandit musthavebeen good stuff, becausetheyhaddrunk
it all except for a litre or so that had spilled out into the boat and
become mixed with seawater.
'Oh, what a pig!' cried Rouget's wife and stopped snivelling.
'Well, that'safinecatch, I mustsay,'saidLaQueue, puttingon
a dignified air.
'Hang on!' said the Emperor. 'People catch what they can and
afterall, they did catcha barrel atleast, whichis morethan those
who didn't catch anything.'
Piqued by this remark, the mayor said no more. But
Coqueville's other inhabitants were commenting excitedly.
Now they could understand! When boats get drunk, they prance
about, just like human beings, and that boat had certainly
had a bellyful! The tipsy old so-and-so! She'd been zigzagging
about just like a drunk who couldn't find his way home.
And some were laughing at it and some were annoyed, for the
MahesfounditfunnyandtheFlochesthoughtitdisgusting. They
all gathered round the Whale, peering open-eyed at the three
happy fellows snoring away with smiles all over their faces,
completely oblivious to the crowd bending over them. Neither
the insults nor the laughter could greatly disturb them. Rouget
was unable to hear his wife accusing him of drinking the lot.
Fouasse did not feel the sly kicks in his ribs being given him by
hisbrotherTupain. AsforDelphin, helookedcharming, withhis
fair hair, pink cheeks and air ofrapturous delight. Margot had
stood up and was silently contemplating the young man with a
hard look in her eyes.
'Better get them to bed!' a voice cried.
Butatthatvery moment, Delphinstarted toopenhiseyes and,
still withhisblissfully happyexpression, begantolookaround at
the crowd ofpeople watching him. At once, everybody started
questioning him, so excitedly that he felt quite bewildered,
especially as he was still as drunk as a lord.
'Well, what's all the fuss?' he stammered. 'It's a little cask.
There wasn't any fish, so we caught a little barrel.'

Coqueville on the Spree 141
That was all he would say. Each time he said it, he added
simply:
'It wasjolly good.'
'But what was in it?' they asked him crossly.
'Oh, I don't know. It wasjolly good.'
By now the whole ofCoqueville was bursting with curiosity.
Theyallstucktheirnosesintotheboatandsniffedhard. Therewas
unanimousagreementthatitwasaliqueurofsomesortbutnobody
couldguess whatliqueur. TheEmperor, whoflatteredhimselfthat
he had drunk everything that a man can drink, said that he was
going tosee. Solemnlyhetookin thehollow ofhishand alittleof
the liquid floating in the bottom of the boat. The crowd fell
suddenlysilentandwaitedexpectantly. However, aftertakingasip,
the Emperor shook his head uncertainly, as ifstill in doubt. He
tastedittwiceagain, withasurprised and worriedlook onhisface,
more and more embarrassed. Eventually he was forced to admit:
'I don't know. . . It's queer. I expect I'd be able to say if it
wasn't for the seawater. But my word, it really is very queer.'
People looked at each other in amazement that even the
Emperordidn'tdareto passadefinitejudgement on whatit was.
Coqueville eyed the little cask with respect.
'It wasjolly good,' said Delphin once again. He seemed to be
laughing up his sleeve.
Then, with a broad grin and a wave ofhis hand, he added:
'Ifyou want some, there's still some left. . . I saw lots oflittle
barrels . . . little. . . little barrels
He kept on humming the words like a refrain from some
lullaby, lookingfondlyatMargot, whom hehadonlyjustcaught
sightof. Shelifted herhandangrilybuthedidnotblink an eyelid
and waited for the slap with a tender look in his eyes.
Intrigued by the thought ofthis mysterious, delicious drink,
FatherRadiguetalsodippedhisfingerintothebottomoftheboat
and sucked it. Like the Emperor, he too shook his head un-
certainly: no, he couldn't place it, it was most surprising. One
thing only they all agreed on: the cask must have come from the
vessel in distress which they had noticed on Sunday and which
must have been wrecked. English ships often carried cargoes of
liqueurs and fine wines ofthat sort to Grandport.
The light was slowly fading and the villagers at last started to
maketheirway homeinthedark. Only La Queuestayed behind.

142 Coqueville on the Spree
sunkin thought, turning overin his mind anidea thathewanted
to keep to himself. He stopped and listened for the last time to
Delphin who was being carried away, still gently singing:
'Little barrels . . . little barrels... ifyou want some, there are
still some left!'
Thatnight the weather changed completely. When Coqueville
woke up next day, the sun was shining brightly, the sea was as
calm as a mill-pond, spreadout likea pieceofgreensatin. And it
was warm, a golden autumnal warmth.
La Queue was first out ofbed in the village, his mind still in
confusion from last night's dreams. He stood for a long time
lookingouttosea, toleftand right. Finally, hesaidirritablythathe
supposed that they'd better keep Monsieur Mouchel satisfied and
immediately set out with Tupain and Brisemotte, threatening
Margotthathewouldtickleherribsifshedidn'twatchherstep. As
Zephyrwasleavingharbourandhesawthe Whaleridingheavilyup
and down at her moorings, he cheered up somewhatand shouted:
'Well, anyway there'll be nothing doing from them today.
. .
Blow out the candle, lads, that drowsy lot are all in bed!'
Assoonashewasoutatsea, LaQueuesethisnets, afterwhich
hewenttolook athis pots, thatishislongwickerlobsterpots, in
which you can occasionally catch red mullet as well.. But despite
thecalmsea, hissearchwentunrewarded;allthepotswereempty
exceptthelastonein which, asifto rubsaltintothewound, they
foundonetinymackerel whichheangrilyflungbackintothesea.
That was the way it went: sometimes weeks would pass and the
fish would give Coqueville a miss; and italways happened when
Monsieur Mouchel was keen to buy. When La Queue pulled his
netsupanhourlater, theonlythinghehadcaughtwasabunchof
seaweed. He clenched his fists and swore; it was all the more
irritating because the Atlantic was unbelievably calm and was
lying lazily stretched out, drowsing under a blue sky like a sheet
ofburnishedsilver, onwhichZephyrslidslowlyandgentlyalong
on an even keel. La Queue decided that he would make for
harbour after he had dropped his nets once more. He would
return and have anotherlook in the afternoon; and he threatened
God and all his saints in outrageously blasphemous terms.

Coqueville on the Spree 143
Meanwhile Rouget, Fouasse and Delphin were still sound
asleepand did not rousethemselves until lunch-time. They could
not remember anything except that they were vaguely aware of
having enjoyed an amazing treat such as they had never known
before. Thatafternoon, whentheyweredownattheharbour, the
Emperor tried to question the three ofthem, now that they had
regainedfulluseoftheirfaculties. Perhapsitwassomethinglikea
sort ofbrandy mixed with liquoricejuice? Or could it be better
describedas akindofsweetrum, with aburntflavour? Firstthey
said yes, then they said no. The Emperorhalfsuspected it might
be ratafia* buthe couldn't sweartoit. Rouget and his crew were
too exhausted to go fishing, especially as they knew that La
Queue had gone out unsuccessfully that morning; so they were
thinking ofwaiting until the following day before going to look
attheirpots. Theysat withparchedthroats slumpedon blocksof
stone, gazingattheincoming tideandbarely abletokeepawake.
Then suddenly Delphin sat up, sprang on to the block ofstone
and, looking far out to sea, shouted:
'Look over there, guv'nor!'
'What is it?' asked Rouget, stretching himself.
'A barrel.'
Their eyes lit up as the other two sprang to their feet and
scanned the horizon.
'Whereis it, lad? Where is the barrel?' asked Rouget excitedly.
'See that black dot over there, on the left?'
The others could not see anything. Then Rouget uttered an
oath:
'Christ Almighty!'
He hadjust caught sight ofthe barrel, no bigger than a lentil,
againstthepalesea, caughtintheslantingraysofthesettingsun. He
ran down to the Whale with Delphin and Fouasse sprinting after
him like startled rabbits, scatteringshowers ofpebbles asthey ran.
As the Whalewas clearing the harbour mouth, thenews ofthe
sighting of the barrel spread like wildfire and the women and
children rushed down to the beach. People were shouting:
'A barrel, a barrel!'
'Can you see it? The current's carrying it towards Grandport!'
'Hurry up! That's it, on the left. A barrel!'
And Coqueville streamed down on to the beach, with the
children turning cartwheels and the women holding up their

144 Coqueville on the Spree
skirts with both hands so as to scramble down more quickly.
Very soon the whole village was assembled on the beach,just as
the evening before.
Margot appeared briefly and then ran back home as fast as she
could to warn her father, who was discussing a summons with
the Emperor. In the end La Queue came out livid with rage and
said to the gamekeeper:
'Stop bothering me! Rouget must've sent you along to waste
my time. Well, he's not going to get that one, you'll see!'
When he saw the crew of the Whale already three hundred
yards offshore rowing madly towards the black dot bobbing up
and down in the distance, he became even more enraged.
'No, they're not going to get it! Over my dead body!'
AndnowCoquevillesaw asplendid sight, a wildracebetween
Zephyrand the Whale. When the crew ofthelattersaw the other
boat leaving harbour, realizing the danger they redoubled their
efforts. Although they had a start ofsome fourhundred yards, it
was still an even contest, because Zephyr was far lighter and
faster. Excitement on the beach was rising to fever pitch. The
Mahes and the Floches had instinctively formed into two groups
and were following the changing fortunes of the race with
passionate interest, each cheering its own boat on. At first the
Whale held on to its lead but once Zephyr was properly under
way, she could be seen to be steadily overhauling theother boat.
The Whale put in a final spurt and fora few minutes managed to
hold her advantage, only to be again overhauled as Zephyrcame
up on her at tremendous speed. From that moment onwards, it
became apparent that the two boats would reach the barrel
roughly together. Victory would depend on circumstances and
the slightest error ofjudgement would determine the issue.
'The Whale, the WhaleV the Mahes were yelling.
The words froze on their lips. Just as the Whale was almost
touchingthebarrel, Zephyrboldlyslippedinbetweenandpushed
the barrel away to the portside, where La Queue harpooned it
with a boathook.
'Zephyr*. ZephyrV howled the Floches.
And as the Emperor muttered something about 'foul play'
under his breath, a few rough words were exchanged. Margot
wasclappingherhands. FatherRadiguet, whohadcomedownto
thebeach holdinghis breviary, uttereda profoundremarkwhich

Coqueville on the Spree 145
suddenly dowsed everyone's excitement and filled them all with
alarm.
'Perhapsthey'regoingtodrinkthelot, too,'hemutteredsadly.
Out at sea a violent squabble had arisen between the Whale and
Zephyr. Rouget was accusing La Queue ofbeing a thiefwhile the
latterreplied bycalling Rougetane'er-do-well. Thetwomen even
picked up their oars to knock each other on the head and the race
showedsignsofturningintoanavalbattle. As itwas, shakingtheir
fists at each other, they promised to settle the matter ashore,
threateningtosliteachother'sthroatsassoonastheywereonland.
'What a shyster,' grunted Rouget. 'You know, that cask was
bigger than the one yesterday. . . It's yellow, too. It must be
something special.'
Then, in a resigned voice:
'Let'sgoandlookatthepots. Perhapsthere'llbesomelobsters.'
Andthe Whalemovedponderouslyawaytothepointontheleft.
On board Zephyr, La Queuehadbeenobligedtospeak sharply
to Tupain and Brisemotte on the subject ofthe barrel, for the
boathook had loosened one ofthe hoops and a red liquid was
oozingout; thetwoyoungmentooksomeofitonthetipoftheir
finger and licked: it was delicious. Surely there wouldn't be any
harm intryingjusta glassofit? ButLaQueueputhisfootdown;
hestowedthebarrel awayandsaidthatthefirstpersonto tryand
haveanotherlickwouldhearfromhim. Onceashore, they'dsee.
'Shall we go and have a look at the pots, then?' asked Tupain
sulkily.
'Yes, in a minute,' replied La Queue. 'There's no hurry.'
Hetoohad been casting fond glances atthecask and in asudden
fitoflistlessness, he felttempted to return toharbourstraightaway
to see what its contents tasted like. He was bored with fish.
'Allright,' hesaidafterapause. 'Let'sgetback, it'sgettinglate.
We'll look at the pots tomorrow.'
Butjustashewasgivingupanyideaoffishing, hecaughtsight
ofanotherbarrel tostarboard, averytinycaskwhichwasfloating
uprightandspinninglikeatop. Thatwastheendofanythoughts
of fishing nets or lobster pots; they weren't mentioned again.
'Zephyr set offin pursuit ofthe cask which he picked up quite
easily this time.
Meanwhile the Whale was engaged in a similar venture. When
Rougethadalreadypulled upfivecompletely empty lobsterpots.

146 Coqueville on the Spree
Delphin, still on the lookout, shouted that he could see some-
thing. But it didn't look like a barrel, it was too long.
'It's a piece ofwood,' said Fouasse.
Rouget let his sixth lobster pot slide back into the sea without
bothering to pull it completely out ofthe water.
'Let's go and have a look all the same,' he said.
Asthey approached, itseemedtothemlikeaplank, acrateora
tree-trunk. Then they gave a cry ofjoy. It was a real barrel but a
very queerone, asorttheyhadneverseenbefore. Itlooked likea
tube bulging in the middle with both ends closed by a layer of
plaster.
'Isn't it strange!' exclaimed Rouget delightedly. 'I want the
Emperorto taste this one. . . Comeon, you two, let's get back!'
They agreed not to broach the barrel straightaway and the
Whale returned to harbour just as Zephyr was tying up. The
villagers were all still waiting expectantly on the beach. Cheers
greeted this unhoped-for catch ofthree barrels. The young boys
flungtheircapsinto theair whilethewomenscurried offto fetch
some glasses. They immediately decided to sample the drinks on
the spot. Any flotsam andjetsam belonged to the whole com-
munity, there was no disputing that! However, they gathered in
two groups, the Mahes with Rouget, whilethe Floches formed a
circle round La Queue.
'Thefirst glass is fortheEmperor!' cried Rouget. 'Tell us what
it is!'
The liqueur was a lovely golden yellow. The gamekeeper
raised his glass, looked at it, sniffed it and decided to take a sip.
'It's from Holland,' he announced after a long pause.
He offered no further information, and the Mahes all drank
with due deference. It was slightly viscous and they were
surprised by the flowery taste. The women thought it was very
good; the men wouldhavepreferred alittlelesssugar. However,
in the end, after a third or fourth glass, it did seem quite strong.
The more they drank, the better they liked it. The men were
becoming merry and the women felt a bit funny.
Meanwhile, despite his recent exchange of words with the
mayor, the Emperor was now hanging round the Floche group.
Thelargerbarrelcontainedadark redliqueur, whilethetinycask
heldaliquidasclearasamountainstream;andit wasthislastthat
was the deadliest ofthem, really peppery and strong enough to

Coqueville on the Spree 147
take the skin offthe roofofyour mouth. None ofthe Floches
was able to place either the red or the clear one. Yet some of
them werefairlyexpert and wereannoyednot toknowthename
ofthe liqueurs that they were drinking with such enjoyment.
'Hereyouare, Emperor, seewhatyou thinkofthis,' La Queue
called out at last, making the first move.
The Emperor, who had been hoping for such an invitation,
once again assumed his role as taster-in-chief. Having tried the
red one, he said:
'There's some orange in it.'
For the clear one, he merely said:
'That's a real beauty!'
That was all they could get out ofhim, because all he did was
to keep nodding his head with a knowing look and a pleased
expressionon his face, like a man who hasjust done a goodjob.
Father Radiguet alone seemed unconvinced. He wanted to put
anametothem andsince, according tohim, hehadthenameson
thetipofhistongue, inordertocompletehisinformationhekept
emptying one glass after another, repeating as he did so:
'Now, wait a second, I know what it is. . . I'll be able to tell
you in a minute.'
Meanwhile, everyone wasbecoming merry, the Mahes as well
as the Floches. The latter were laughing particularly loudly
because they were mixing theirdrinks and this madethem all the
merrier. Both groups were, however, keeping strictly to them-
selves and not offering any drinks to the other, although they
were casting friendly glances at one another; but they were
ashamed to admit openly that they would like to try the other
group's drink, which was surely better than their own. Despite
their rivalry, the two brothers Tupain and Fouasse spent the
whole evening in close proximity to one another without once
showing signs of wanting to square up to each other. It was
noticed, too, that Rouget and his wife were drinking out ofthe
same glass. As for Margot, she was serving drinks to the Floches
and as she kept filling the glasses too full, the surplus spilt on to
her fingers which she was continually licking, so that, although
obeying her father's orders not to drink, she had become tipsv.
like the girls during the grape-harvest. It was not unbecoming;
on the contrary, she was looking all pink and her eyes were
sparkling like candles.

148 Coqueville on the Spree
The sun was setting; the evening was soft and springlike.
Coquevillehaddemolishedthecontentsofallthreebarrelsandno
one was thinking of going home to supper; they were too
comfortable on the beach. When it was quite dark, Margot,
sitting some distance away from the others, felt someone
breathingdownthebackofherneck:itwasDelphin, verymerry,
crawling on all fours and prowling round her like a wolf. She
stifled a cry in order not to draw her father's attention, for he
would certainly have booted his behind.
'Do go away, stupid!' she muttered, half laughing and half
annoyed, 'You'll get caught!'
Nextday, whenCoquevilleawoke, thesunwasalreadyhighin
theheavens. It was aneven warmer day and thesea lay stretched
outsleepilyunderacloudlesssky. Itwasoneofthoselazysortsof
day when it's wonderful not to have to do anything. It was
Wednesday and until lunchtime Coqueville recovered from its
indulgence ofthe previous evening. Then everyone went down
to the beach to take a look.
Fish, Madame Dufeu, MonsieurMouchel andeverything con-
nected with them were forgotten. La Queuedidn'teven mention
going to look at their lobster pots. At about three o'clock they
sightedsomebarrels, fourofthem, bobbingupanddowninfront
ofthevillage. Zephyrand the Whalesetoffin pursuitbut as there
wasenoughforall, theydidn'tsquabbleandeachboattookitsshare.
At six o'clock, after exploring the bay, Rouget and La Queue
came back with three barrels each. And once more, they went on
the spree. The women had brought tables down to the beach to
makethings morecomfortable. Theyeven fetched benches andset
up two open-air cafes,justlike thosein Grandport. The Mahes sat
ontheleft, theFlocheson theright, separatedfromeachotherby a
mound ofsand. However, that evening the Emperor kept going
from one group to the other, carrying round glassfuls of each
liqueur, sothateverybodycouldtastethecontentsofeachofthesix
barrels. Byaboutnineo'clock, everyonewasmuchmerrierthanon
the previous evening. And next morning, no one in Coqueville
could ever remember how they had managed to get to bed.
On Thursday, Zephyr and the Whale picked up only two

Coqueuille on the Spree 149
barrels; that is, two barrels each: but they were enormous. On
Friday, the catch was superb, and beyond their wildest dreams:
seven barrels, three for Rouget and four for La Queue. And now
for Coqueville there began the Golden Age. Nobody did a stroke
of work. The fishermen slept offthe effects ofthe night before
and did not wake till noon. Then they would go down for a stroll
along the beach and look longingly out to sea. Theironly concern
was which liqueur would come in on the tide. They would sit
thereforhours, gazingouttosea, andacryofjoywouldgoupas
soon as a barrel hove into view. From the top of the rock, the
women and children would wave their arms about wildly at the
sight ofthe tiniest clump ofseaweed bobbing up and down in the
waves. Zephyrand the Whale held themselves in readiness to leave
at a moment's notice. They sailed out and scoured the bay,
fishing for barrels in the same way that people fish for tunny,
spurning the carefree mackerel which disported themselves in the
sun and the soles floating idly at the surface. Coqueville followed
their expeditions from the beach, chuckling with delight. Then,
when evening came, they drank their catch.
What really attracted Coqueville's fancy was that the barrels
were never-ending. Whenever there seemed to be none left, still
they came. The lost ship must have had a wonderful cargo on
board and Coqueville, which had become cheerfully selfish,
joked about the wrecked vessel: it must have been a proper
liqueur cellar, large enough to make every fish in the Atlantic
tipsy! What is more, they never caught two identical barrels, for
they were of every size, shape and colour, and in every barrel
there was a different liqueur, so that the Emperor was in a
permanent haze. He had drunk everything that was going and
now he was all at sea! La Queue declared that he had never seen
such a cargo in his whole life. Father Radiguet expressed the view
that it must have been ordered by some nativeking wanting to set
up a cellar. As a matter of fact, Coqueville was so drowsy and
fuddled by drinking so many unknown liqueurs that it had given
up any attempt to understand.
Theladies preferred thecordials: moka, cacao, peppermint and
vanilla. One evening, Marie Rouget drank so much anisette that
she was ill. Margot and the other girls went for Curacao,
benedictine, trappistine and chartreuse. The blackcurrant tynip
was reserved for the children. The men, of course, enjoyed it

150 Coqueville on the Spree
most when they had picked up brandies, rums and Holland gins,
the sort of stuff that stings the palate. And then there were the
surpriseitems. A caskofresinatedrakifromChiosthrewCoqueville
into a state ofcomplete bewilderment; they thought that they'd
come across a barrel ofturpentine; all the same, they drank it up,
becauseit'sashametowasteanything;buttheytalkedaboutitlong
afterwards. Arak from Batavia, caraway seed schnapps from
Sweden, tuica calugaresca from Romania and Serbian slivovitz*
also threw Coqueville's ideas on what you can pour down your
throatinto utterconfusion. Basically, theybetrayedaweaknessfor
kummelandkirsch, thesortofspiritsthatareasclearascrystaland
powerful enough to fell an ox. How was it possible for such
wonderful drinks to have been invented? Up till now, Coqueville
had had experience ofonly the rawest ofspirits; and not everyone
had known them. And so their imagination began to run riot and
they felt like going down on their knees to worship such an
inexhaustiblevarietyofintoxicatingliquor. Fancy beingabletoget
drunk everydayon somethingnew thatyoudidn'teven knowthe
name of! It was like a fairy story, a shower ofnectar, a fountain
spurtingwitheverysortofextraordinaryliquid, distillationsscented
with the fruits and flowers ofthe whole ofcreation!
And so on Friday evening, there were seven barrels set up on
thebeach and the wholeofCoqueville was thereas well; indeed,
the villagers were there all the time for, thanks to the mild
weather, they were all living on the beach. Never had they
known such a gorgeous week in September. They had been on
the spree since Monday and there was no reason for itnot to last
for ever if divine Providence continued its supply of barrels.
Father Radiguet saw thehandofGodin all this. All business was
suspended; why toilandsweatwhenpleasurewashandedtoyou,
inabottle, whileyou slept?Theyhad all becomemembersofthe
leisuredclasses, peoplewhowereinapositiontodrinkexpensive
liqueurswithouthaving to worrywhowas footing thebill. With
their hands in their pockets, the inhabitants of Coqueville
loungedaboutinthesunawaitingtheireveningtreat. Asamatter
offact, they were never sober; kummel, kirsch and ratafia were
the links in an unbroken chain ofjollification; in the space of
seven days, Coqueville was being inflamed by gin, made sen-
timental by curaqao and hilarious by brandy. And they were as
innocent and as ignorant as babes in arms, drinking everything

Coqueville on the Spree 151
the good Lord provided with the simple faith oftrue believers.
It was on Friday that the Mahes and the Floches started
fraternizing. Everyonewasverymerrythatevening. Thebarriers
between them had already begun to crumble the previous day,
when some of the tipsiest among them had kicked away the
mound ofsand separating the two groups. There was only one
furtherstepneeded. The Floches werebusilyemptyingtheirfour
barrels while the Mahes were similarly engaged in finishing off
theirthreesmall casks, whichhappenedtocontain liqueurs ofthe
samecoloursastheFrenchflag, red, white, andblue. TheFloches
were very envious ofthe blue one because a blue liqueur seemed
to them something quite out ofthe ordinary. Now that he was
never sober, La Queue had become extremely genial and he
suddenly went across unsteadily, with a glass in his hand,
realizing that as mayor, it was up to him to make the first move.
'Look, Rouget,' he said, stumbling somewhat over his words,
'would you care to have a drink with me?'
'I don't mind ifI do,' replied Rouget, swaying with emotion.
And they fell on each other's necks. At this touching sight,
everyone burst into tears and the Mahes and the Floches embraced
each other after being at daggers drawn for three centuries. Father
Radiguet, greatly stirred, again spoke ofthe hand ofGod. They
drankeachother'shealth inthethreeliqueurs, red, whiteandblue.
'Vive la France!' the Emperor cried.
The blue one was no good at all, the white onejust passable;
buttheredonewasterrific. Afterthat, theysetabouttheFloches'
barrels. Then they started dancing. As there was no band, some
ofthe young men obligedby whistling and clapping theirhands.
This set the girls going. It was a proper binge. The seven barrels
were all placed in one long line and everyone could choose the
one he liked best. Those who had had enough lay down on the
sand and had a nap; when they woke up, they started again. The
dancers gradually spread out until there was dancing all over the
beach. This open-air hop went on till midnight. The sea lapped
gently and the stars shone brightly in the calm ofthe fathomless
depths of the heavens. It was like some primitive tribe, in the
infancyoftheworld, peacefullycradledinthejoyousintoxication
oftheir first barrel ofbrandy.
However, Coqueville still went home when it was time to go
to bed. When there was nothing left to drink, the Mahes and the

152 Coqueville on the Spree
Floches, supporting and carrying each other as best they could,
eventually made their way back to their houses. On Saturday,
the celebration went on until nearly two o'clock in the morn-
ing. During the day, they had caught six barrels, two ofwhich
were enormous. Fouasse and Tupain nearly came to blows
and Tupain, who became aggressive when drunk, threatened
to do his brother in. But everyone was disgusted at such an
exhibition, the Floches as well as the Mahes. Was it sensible to
go on squabbling like that when the whole village was over-
flowing with brotherly love? So they forced the two brothers to
drink each other's health, which they reluctantly did. The
Emperor promised himselfto keep an eye on them. The Rouget
couple were not very happy either. When Marie had been
drinking anisette, she allowed Brisemotte to take liberties that
were not to her husband's liking, all the more so as drink had
made him also amorously inclined. Father Radiguet had tried
to pour oil on troubled waters by preaching the forgiveness of
sins, but everyone was apprehensive at the possibility of an
outburst.
'Ah well,' said La Queue, 'things will sort themselves out. If
there's a good catch tomorrow, you'll see. Your very good
. .
health!'
However, LaQueuehimselfwasnotentirely guiltless. Hewas
still keeping a sharp eye on Delphin and trying to kick his
backside every time he saw him sidling up to Margot. The
Emperor indignantly pointed out that there was no sense in
trying to prevent two young folk from having fun butLa Queue
still swore thathe'd seehis daughter dead ratherthan let Delphin
have her. Anyway, Margot didn't want him.
'That's right, isn't it?' he shouted. 'You're too proud ever to
marry a tramp, aren't you?'
'No, I never would, papa!' Margot invariably replied.
On Saturday, Margot drank a good deal of a very sweet
liqueur. You can't imagine how sweet it was. As Margot was
quite unsuspecting, she soon found herselfsitting on the ground
beside the barrel. She was laughing happily to herself: it was
heavenly, she could see stars and hear dance tunes singing in her
ears. Then it was that Delphin slid up to her under the cover of
the barrel and took her hand.
'Will you, Margot?' he asked her.
'It's papa who doesn't want me to,' she replied, still smiling.

Coqueville on the Spree 153
'Oh, that doesn't matter,' retorted the boy. 'Old people never
do, you know. As long as you want to. .'
. . .
And he boldly planted a kiss on her neck. She squirmed with
pleasure and little shivers ran down her back.
'Stop it, you're tickling. . .'
But she made no mention ofgiving him a slap. For one thing,
she couldn't have done it, because her hands had gone all weak,
while for another, she was finding those little kisses on her neck
rather nice. It was like the liqueur which was filling her with a
delicious feeling oflanguor. After a while, she twisted her head
and stretched out her chin, like a cat.
'Look,'shesaidinavoicethattrembled, 'I'mitchingjustthere,
under my ear. Oh, that's wonderful. .'
. . .
They had both forgotten La Queue. Fortunately the Emperor
was on the alert. He drew Father Radiguet's attention to them.
'Look over there, Father. They'd better get married.'
'Morality would certainly suggest so,' observed the priest
sententiously.
And he promised to see what he could do about arranging it
nextday:hewouldpersonallyhaveawordwithLaQueue. Mean-
whileLaQueuehimselfhaddrunksomuchthattheEmperorand
thepriesthadtocarryhimhome. On theway, theytriedtomake
him see reason with regard to Delphin and his daughter; but all
they could get out ofhim was grunts. Delphin followed behind
them, taking Margot home under the bright starry sky.
Next day, Zephyr and the Whale had already picked up seven
barrels by four o'clock. At six o'clock they caught two more.
That made nine in all. And so Coqueville celebrated the Sabbath
day. It wastheseventh day ofinebriation and itwas a celebration
to end all celebrations, a beano such as no one had ever seen
before nor would ever see again. Mention this to anyone from
Lower Normandy and they'll chuckle and say:
'Ah yes, what a binge they had in Coqueville!'
Meanwhile, evenasearlyasTuesday, MonsieurMouchelhadex-
pressed surprise at seeing neither Rouget nor La Queue. What the
devil were they up to?The sea was calm, they should have made a
splendid catch. Perhaps they were waiting m the hope ot getting a

154 Coqueville on the Spree
bighauloflobsters andsolewhich theycouldbringoverall together.
Sohedecided to bepatientand see whathappenedon Wednesday.
Buton Wednesday, MonsieurMouchel got cross. It mustbere-
membered that Dufeu's widow was an awkward customer; it did
nottakelongforhertobecomeabusive. Soalthoughhewasafine,
upstanding young fellow, well-built, with a mop offair hair, she
made him quake in his shoes, despite his secret dreams ofone day
making her his wife; he was thus always careful to showherevery
attention while reserving the righttobring hertoheel with a good
slap round the face ifheever becamethe boss. Well, that Wednes-
daymorning, thewidowragedandswore, complainingthatnofish
was being delivered and putting the blame on him for gadding
about with the local girls instead ofconcentrating on whiting and
mackerel, ofwhichthereshould havebeenaplentifulsupply. Thus
provoked, Monsieur Mouchel declared that it was Coqueville's
faultfornothavingkepttheirword. Forabriefmoment, Madame
Dufeu's surprise at the news ofsuch strange behaviour made her
forgetheranger. WhatonearthwasCoquevillethinkingof?They'd
neverdonethatsortofthingbefore. Butshehastenedtoaddthatshe
didn't give a damn about Coqueville, that it was Monsieur
Mouchel's responsibility and ifhe kept on being taken in by the
fishermen, she'dhavetodecidewhatmeasurestotake. Thisremark
madetheyoung man veryuneasy andheconsignedRougetand La
Queue to the bottomless pit. But perhaps they'd come next day.
Next day was Thursday and still neither of them put in an
appearance. Inthelateafternoon, adespairingMonsieurMouchel
climbed up to the rock to the left ofGrandport, where he had a
viewofCoqueville in the distance, together with its yellow strip
ofbeach. He stayed looking for a long time. It seemed peaceful
enough under the sun. Wisps ofsmoke were coming out ofthe
chimneys: no doubt wives were getting the supper ready.
MonsieurMouchel saw thatCoquevillewas still thereandthat it
hadn'tbeencrushedbyafallofrock. Hewasmoremystifiedthan
ever. Just as he was about to go down, he thought he could see
two dark spots in the bay, the Whale and Zephyr. He went back
and reassured the widow: Coqueville was out fishing.
Night came and went; it was Friday and still no trace of
Coqueville. Monsieur Mouchel climbed a dozen times up to the
rock. Hewasbeginningtolosehisnerve;MadameDufeuwastreat-
ing him abominably and he could think ofno possibleexplanation

Coqueville on the Spree 155
togiveher. Coquevillewasstillthere, lazilybaskinginthesunlikea
lizard. But this time Monsieur Mouchel could not see any smoke.
Thevillage seemed dead. Had they all crawled into theirholes and
given up the ghost? Certainly, the beach seemed to be swarming
with people but that couldwell be heaps ofseaweed broughtinby
the tide.
On Saturday, still nobody appeared. The widow had stopped
shouting and was sitting there tight-lipped and with eyes set hard.
Monsieur Mouchel spent two hours up on his rock. He was
becoming curious and beginning to feel that he must discover for
himselfwhy the village seemed so deserted.
Finally, the sight of those tumbledown old cottages blissfully
drowsingin thesunirritatedhim somuchthatheresolvedto leave
very early on Monday, so as to be there by nine o'clock in the
morning.
Getting to Coqueville was no easy matter. Monsieur Mouchel
decided to go by land, so that he could descend on the village
unawares. He drovein ahorseand cartas faras Robigneux, where
he left them in a barn, since it would have been foolhardy to risk
driving down the gullies. He set off at a steady pace for
Coqueville, a distance ofmore than four miles overthe roughest
oftracks. The road, in fact, runs through a wild and picturesque
landscape, twisting and turning as it descends between two
enormous sloping walls of rock, so narrow in parts that three
mencouldnotwalkabreast. Furtheron, itranalongasheerdrop,
until the gorge suddenly opened out to give views over the
immensebluehorizonandthesea. ButMonsieurMouchelwasin
no mood to admire the landscape and he swore as the boulders
rolled away under his feet. It was all Coqueville's fault and he
promised to show them the rough edge ofhis tongue when he
arrived. He was now nearly there and as he came round the last
bendintherockhecaughtsightofthetwentyorsohouseswhich
comprised the village, huddled together against the cliff-face.
It wasjust striking nine. The sky was blue and it was so warm
thatyoucouldhavethoughtitwasJune. Theairwasclearandthere
wasagoldenglowandacoolsaltysmellofsea. MonsieurMouchel
set off down the only street of the village, which he had often
visited, andashehadtopassRouget'shouse, hewentin. Thehouse
wasempty. Then, hehad a brieflook intoTupain's, Fouasv
Brisemotte'scottages. Notasoultobeseen; thedoorswereallopen

156 Coqueville on the Spree
but the rooms were empty. What could it mean? A cold shiver
began to run down his spine. Then he thought of the local
authorities: the Emperor would certainly be able to give him
information. Butthe Emperor's housewas as emptyasall therest;
so even the gamekeeper wasn't there! By now, the silence ofthe
desertedvillagefilledhimwithterror. Hehurriedontothemayor's
housewhereanothersurpriseawaitedhim. Theinsideofthehouse
was in a frightful mess: beds left unmade for the last three days,
dirty crockery lying about all over the place, chairs tipped up as if
there had been a fight. Now completely unnerved and with
thoughts ofsome dreadful cataclysm running through his mind,
Monsieur Mouchel made for the church, determined to leave no
stoneunturned; butthepriestwas no morevisiblethanthe mayor.
Religion had vanished together with any civil authority.
Coquevillehadbeenabandonedandleftwithnotabreathoflife,
notevena dogora cat. Andnotevenpoultry, forthehenshadleft
as well. Absolutely nothing atall: empty and silent, Coquevillelay
plunged in slumber beneath the vast blue sky.
Heavensabove! Itwasn'tsurprisingifCoquevillewasn'tsupply-
inganyfish! Coquevillehad movedout, Coquevillewasdead! The
policemustbeinformed. MonsieurMouchelwasdeeplymovedby
this mysteriousdisaster; butthen, thinkingthathemightaswellgo
downasfarasthebeach, heutteredasuddencry. There, flatouton
the sand, lay the entire population. He thought at first that there
musthavebeena generalmassacre, butthesoundofheavysnoring
quicklydisabusedhim. OnSundaynight, Coquevillehadcelebrated
untilsuchalatehourthatitsinhabitantshadbeenquiteincapableof
going home to bed. So they had slept on the beach, in the place
where they had toppled over around the nine barrels ofliqueur,
now completely empty.
Yes, the whole ofCoqueville lay there plunged in sleep; and I
mean by that the women and children and old men, as well as the
working men. Therewasnotonestillonhisfeet. Somewerelying
facedown, someontheirbacks; otherslaycurledup. Asyoumake
yourbed, soyoumustlieon it. Andsothewholelotwerescattered
all overthebeach wheretheirdrunkenness had landedthem, like a
handful ofleaves blown at random by the wind. Someofthe men
had tipped over with their heads hanging down while some ofthe
women were showing their backsides. It was all free and easy, a
dormitory in the open air, good honest folk and not a trace of

Coqueville on the Spree 157
embarrassment, because embarrassment is the enemy of enjoy-
ment. There happened to be a new moon and so, thinking that
they had blown out their candles, the inhabitants of Coqueville
had let themselves go. Day had come and the sun was shining
brightly, straight into the sleepers' eyes; but not one eye blinked.
They were all sleeping like logs and beaming all over their faces
with that wonderful innocence ofthe drunk. The hens, too, must
have come down early to peck at the barrels, because they too
were lying on the sand, dead drunk. There were even five cats
and threedogs, flatontheirbacks withtheirpawsintheair, tipsy
from licking the sugary dregs left in the glasses.
Monsieur Mouchel picked his way through the sleepers for a
while, taking care not to disturb anyone. He realized what had
happened because they had picked up some casks from the
wrecked English vessel in Grandport. His anger had completely
evaporated. What a touching sight it was! Coqueville was recon-
ciled and the Mahes were lying down with the Floches . . . When
the last glass had been drained, the worst enemies had fallen into
each other's arms: Tupain and Fouasse were snoring away hand
in hand, like brothers who henceforth would find it impossible to
quarrel over legacies. As for the Rougets, they offered an even
more charming picture: Marie lay sleeping between Rouget and
Brisemotte, as though saying that from now on they would live
happily like that, for ever afterwards . . .
But there was one group that provided a particularly touching
family scene: Delphin and Margot were lying with their arms
round each other's necks, cheek to cheek, with their lips still open
in a kiss, while the Emperor was lying crosswise at their feet,
keeping guard over them; La Queue was sound asleep and
snoring away like any happy father who had found a husband for
his^daughter; and Father Radiguet, who had toppled over like all
therest, washoldinghisarmsoutspreadasthoughblessingthem.
In sleep, Margot was still holding up her pretty little face like the
muzzleofa lovesick cat who enjoys being tickled under its chin.
So the spree ended in a wedding. And later on. Monsieur
Mouchel himselfmarried the widow and tanned her hide as he
had promised.
Mention all this to anyone from Lower Normandy and they'll
chuckle and say:
'Ah yes, what a binge they had in Coqueville!'

A FLASH IN THE PAN
ONCE a month during the fruit season, a swarthy little girl with
a mop of black hair would appear in the house of Monsieur
Rostand, a solicitor in Aix-en-Provence, with a basket ofapri-
cots or peaches so enormous that she had difficulty in carrying
it. As soon as it became known that she was waiting in the
large downstairs hall, the whole family would come down to
see her.
'Ah, it's you, Nai's,' the solicitor would say. 'You've brought
us some fruit. You're a good girl. . . And how's your father?'
'Very well, thank you, monsieur,' the little girl would reply
with a flash ofwhite teeth.
Then Madame Rostand would take Nai's Micoulin into the
kitchen and question her about the olives, the almonds and the
vines. The most important thing was to discover whether there
had been any rain on the stretch ofcoast at L'Estaque, wherethe
Rostandshadtheirproperty, LaBlancarde, whichwas farmedby
their tenant Micoulin. There were only a few dozen almond and
olive trees but the question ofrain was still the most urgent, for
this part ofthe country was chronically prone to drought.
'There've been a few drops,' Nai's would say. 'The grapes
could do with some more.'
Then, having delivered hernews, she wouldbeoffereda hunk
of bread and some leftovers of meat before going back to
L'Estaque in the cart ofa butcher who came over to Aix once a
fortnight. Often she would bring shellfish, a spiny lobster, or a
nice fish, for old Micoulin was keener on fishing than on
ploughing. Whenever she came during the school holidays,
Frederic, Rostand's son, would run down to the kitchen and tell
herwhenthefamilywouldbecomingtostayatLaBlancardeand
remind herto get all thefishing tackle ready. He was on friendly
terms with her because he used to play with her when he was
quite young; but since the age oftwelve, she had started calling
him 'Monsieur Frederic' as a mark ofrespect. Indeed, every time
old Micoulin heard her speak too familiarly to the son of his
landlord, hewouldgiveherasoundboxontheears. Butthatdid
not prevent the children from remaining good friends.

A Flash in the Pan 159
'Andyou won'tforgettomendthenets?' theschoolboywould
say.
'Don't worry, Monsieur Frederic,' Nai's replied, 'We'll have
everything ready for you.'
Monsieur Rostand was an extremely wealthy man. He had
bought a superb townhouse, the Hotel de Coiron, in the Rue du
College, very cheaply. Built in the late seventeenth century, it
had no fewer than twelve windows at the front and enough
rooms tohousea wholecommunity; as thehouseholdcomprised
only five people, including two old servants, it seemed lost in
suchspaciousquarters. Thesolicitoroccupiedonlythefirstfloor.
After advertising the ground floor and second floor for ten years
without finding any tenants, he had finally decided to close up
those rooms, leavingtwo-thirds ofthehousetobetaken overby
spiders. The gloomy empty house echoed like a cathedral at the
slightest sound in the vast entrance hall; it had a monumental
staircase and could easily have held a whole modern house.
Immediately after buying the house, Monsieur Rostand had
erected a partition to divide the principal drawing-room, some
forty feet long and twenty-five feet wide and lit by six large
windows; one halfofthe room he took as his own office while
the other halfwas for his clerks. There were four further rooms
on the first floor, the smallest ofwhich measured nearly twenty-
three feet by sixteen. Madame Rostand, Frederic and thetwo old
maidservants had rooms with ceilings as high as most chapels.
The solicitor had been forced reluctantly to convert a former
boudoir into a kitchen in order to provide a more convenient
service, because previously, when the ground floor kitchen had
been in use, all the food arrived completely cold after being
carried through the damp and icy-cold hall and up the staircase.
But the worst feature ofthese ridiculously large quarters was the
totally inadequate furniture. Monsieur Rostand's immense study
contained only a sadly inelegant Empire settee and eight match-
ingarmchairsingreenUtrechtvelvetscatteredsparselyroundthe
room, whiletinyoccasionaltablesofthesameperiodstoodin the
middle, lookinglikedolls' furniture;onthemantelshelftherewas
a frightful modern marble clock standing between two vases,
while the floor covering consisted ofshiny garish red tiles. I'he
bedrooms were even more sparsely furnished. Everywhere you
could sense the scornful indifference ofthe southern Frenchman,

160 A Flash in the Pan
however wealthy, for any comfort orluxury, in this sun-blessed
country where everybody lives as much as possibleoutofdoors.
TheRostands were certainly quiteunaware ofthe desolation and
gloomofthesevast, deathlycoldroomswhichhadallthesadness
of ruins, compounded by the poverty and sparseness of the
furniture.
The solicitor was, however, an extremely astute man. He had
inherited from his father one ofthe largest practices in Aix and
with an energy rare in a land where people are generally bone-
idle, he had succeeded in building it up still further. Small in
stature, always onthe go, with a ferrety face, he devoted himself
wholeheartedly to the advancementofhis practice; his pursuitof
wealth was, indeed, so singleminded that he did not even take
time off to read a newspaper during his rare moments of
relaxation at his club. His wife on the other hand had the
reputation ofbeing one ofthe most distinguished and intelligent
women ofAix. She had been born a de Villebonne and this had
left her with an aura of considerable prestige, despite having
married beneath her station. But she was so straitlaced and
practisedherreligiousdutieswithsuchstubborn, narrow-minded
and methodical routine that she had become, as it were, quite
dried up.
So Frederic was growing up between an inordinately busy
father and an excessively puritanical mother. During his school
years, hehadbeenadunceofthefirstwater, goinginterrorofhis
motherbut with such an unconquerable distaste for work thathe
would sometimes sit for hours over his books without reading a
line, thinking ofother things, while his parents, watching him,
imagined that he was hard at work. Exasperated by his laziness,
they finally packed him offto boarding school where, delighted
at having escaped his parents' watchful eye, he still managed to
work no harder. So, becoming alarmed at the signs of his
incipient emancipation, they took him away from the school in
order to be able to have him once again under their observation.
In this way he completed his two final years of education, so
closely guarded that he was forced to work; his mother would
inspecthis exercisebooks andcompelhim to gooverhislessons,
standing over him all the time like a policeman. Thanks to this
careful supervision, Frederic failed his school-leaving examina-
tion only twice.

A Flash in the Pan 161
TheLaw Faculty ofAix has an excellent reputation and young
Fredericnaturally applied tojoin it. As the former seat ofa High
Court, thereisnoshortageofbarristers, solicitors andlawyersof
all sorts engaged in the administration ofjustice; but law is still
studied, even by those who have no intention ofever practising
it. Frederic merely continued toliveinthesame way ashehad at
school, giving the impression ofworking hard whilst doing as
little as possible. Most reluctantly, Madame Rostand had had to
allow her son greater freedom. He could now go out whenever
he wanted and was expected to be present only at mealtimes; he
had to be in by nine o'clock every night except on those days
when he was allowed to go to the theatre. Henow embarked on
thelife ofthe provincial student which is both very monotonous
and full oftemptations, unless spent wholeheartedly working.
One has to know Aix-en-Provence personally, with its quiet
streets, so quiet that grass grows over them, and its general
drowsyatmosphere, inordertorealizetheemptinessofthelifeof
astudentthere. Theoneswhoworkcankill timeinstudying;but
those who arenotinterested in following their courses haveonly
two resources against boredom: going to cafes, where they play
cards for money, or going to certain other establishments where
they do worse things. As young Rostand turned into an enthu-
siastic gambler, he spent most ofhis evenings playing cards, but
he ended them elsewhere. With the lustfulness ofa schoolboy
finally set free, he flung himselfinto the only sort ofdebauchery
thatthetown had to offer, sinceAixlackedtheemancipated girls
thatyou meeteverywhereintheLatinQuarterofParis. Whenhis
eveningsprovedtooshort, heturnedthemintonightsbystealing
a house-key. In such pursuits he passed his years oflaw school
quite agreeably.
Frederic had also now come to the realization that he must
show himselfto be an obedient son. Gradually he acquired the
imperturbable hypocrisy ofall children bullied by their parents.
His mother could now proclaim herself fully satisfied: he
accompanied her to Mass, behaved impeccably at all times and
toldherenormouslies withoutblinkinganeyelid andwitha note
ofsuchsincerityinhisvoicethatsheacceptedthem. Soskilfuldid
he become that he was never at a loss, always able to find an
excuse and supporting his case by extraordinary stones carefully
elaborated in advance. He used to pay his gambling debts by

162 A Flash in the Pan
borrowingfromhiscousinsandhad awhole complicated system
of bookkeeping. Once, after an unexpected win, he even
managed to fulfil his dream of spending a week in Paris by
arranginganallegedinvitationfromafriendwhoownedanestate
near the Durance.*
Moreover Frederic was a handsome young man, tall, with
regular features and a thick black beard. His vices made him
attractive, especially to women. Those people who knew ofhis
pranks would give a wry smile but since he had the decency to
conceal this shady side ofhis character, you had to be grateful to
him for not advertising his riotous style ofliving, unlike some
less mannerly students who were the talk ofthe town.
Frederic was now rising twenty-one and would soon be taking
hislawfinals. Hisfatherwasstillyoungandunwillingtohandover
hispracticestraightaway;hetalkedofgettinghissonintothepublic
prosecutor's office, for he had friends in Paris whom he could
persuadetohavehim madeadeputypublicprosecutor. Theyoung
man did not say no; he never opposed his parents openly; but his
lips curled in a slight smile which suggested his firm intention of
continuing thelifeofidleness which was so much to his liking. He
knew that his father was rich; he was theonly son; why should he
givehimselftheslightesttrouble?Meanwhile, hestrolleddown the
Cours Mirabeau* smoking cigars, went to gay house-parties in
neighbouring country-houses and patronized houses of ill fame,
daily and in secret. All this did not prevent him from being at his
mother's beck and call or showing her every solicitude. When he
felt completely fagged out and extremely liverish from some
particularly violent excesses, he would come back to his parents'
vast, freezinghouseintheRueduCollegeandenjoyadeliciousrest
cure. The boredom of the empty and forbidding high-ceilinged
rooms was cool and tranquillizing. Here, whilepretendingto his
mother that he was staying home to keep her company, he would
recuperateuntil such time as, having recovered his appetiteand his
health, he would start plotting some new escapade. In a word, the
nicest young man you could ever want to meet, as long as you
didn't interfere with his pleasures.
Meanwhile, Nai's used to come to the Rostand house with fruit
and vegetables every year andevery yearshehad grown up a little
more. She was exactly the same age as Frederic, perhaps three
months older. So each time, Madame Rostand would say to her:

A Flash in the Pan 163
'How grown up you're getting, Nais!'
Nais would smile and show her dazzling white teeth. More
often than not, Frederic was not at home. But one day, during his
lastyearat university,justas he was goingout, he met Nais in the
hall, holding her basket. He stopped in his tracks in surprise. He
could no longer recognize the lanky boyish-looking girl whom
he had seen only the summer before at La Blancarde. She was in
every way superb: her nut-brown face beneath her thick crop of
black hair, the full curves ofher figure, her broad shoulders, her
magnificent arms, her bare wrists. In the space ofa year she had
shot up like a young sapling.
'It's you!' he stammered.
'Yes, Monsieur Frederic,' she said looking him straight in the
face with her large, brown, smouldering eyes. 'I've brought you
some sea-urchins. When are you coming to La Blancarde? Shall
we get the nets ready?'
Still staring at her, he said softly, apparently not having heard
what she had said:
'Nais, you look wonderful! What have you got there?'
The compliment made her laugh. Then, as he playfully took
hold of her hands, just as he used to do when they were
playmates, herfacebecameseriousand, suddenlyrevertingtothe
same familiar form of speech of those days, she said in a low,
rather hoarse voice:
'Not now, Frederic! Your mother's coming.'
A fortnight later, the Rostand family were on their way to La
Blancarde. The solicitor had to wait until the courts were in
recess and in any case the month ofSeptember was the pleasantest
to spend by the sea, for the heat was dying down and the nights
were becoming deliciously cool.
La Blancarde was not in L'Estaque itself, which is a small town
situated close to the outermost suburbs of Marseilles, at the far
end of a bay completely enclosed by rocks. The property stood
beyond the town, perched on top ofa cliff. Set in a clump oftall
pines, the yellow front could be seen from all around the bay. It
was one of those heavy, square, old buildings with irregular
windows which people call chateaux in Provence. In front ot the

164 A Flash in the Pan
housewasabroadterracebeyondwhichthegroundfellsheertoa
tiny pebbly beach. Behind, there was a large area ofpoor land
wheretheonlyplantsthatcouldbepersuadedtogrowwereafew
vines, olives and almond trees. Also, one ofthe disadvantages
and dangers of La Blancarde was that the sea was constantly
battering the foot of the cliff and that underground springs
filteredthroughthemixtureofclayandrock, softeningit, sothat
every so often enormous masses ofearth would break away and
fall with a terrifying noise into the water. The property was
slowly being eroded and some of the pines had already been
engulfed by the sea.
The Micoulins had farmed the property as tenants for forty
years. In accordance with local custom, they did the cultivation
and shared the crops with the owner. The crops were poor and
they would have starved had they not been able to do a little
fishinginthesummer; betweenploughingandsowing, therewas
time to set a few nets. The family consisted of old Micoulin
himself, atough and rougholdmanwithaswarthy, deeply-lined
facewhostruckterrorinhishousehold;themother,
atall
woman
broken down by long hours ofworking the land in the pitiless
sun; asonwhowasservingonboardtheArrogante; andNai'swho
had been sent out to work in a tile-factory by her father, despite
all the work she had to do in the home. The farmer's house, a
tumbledown old cottage clinging to the cliff-face, rarely heard
the cheerful sound ofa laugh or a song. Micoulin was a taciturn
old ogre, endlessly brooding overthe vicissitudes ofhis life. The
two women showed him the respect born offear that wives and
daughters owe to the head of the family in southern France.
Almosttheonly sound that ever disturbed the peaceand quietof
thehousewasthefuriousvoiceofthemotherstandingwitharms
akimbo bawling Nai's's name as soon as she had attempted to
make herselfscarce. The girl would hear hera good halfmile off
and have to come back, livid with suppressed anger.
InL'Estaquethey called her'thelovelyNai's'; butshewasnota
veryhappy girl. When shewas alreadysixteen, herfather, on the
slightest pretext, would hit her in the face hard enough to make
her nose bleed; and even now that she was turned twenty, she
would have bruised shoulders for weeks on end as a resultofher
father's brutal treatment. He was not an unkind man but merely
using his royal prerogative to enforce the strictest obedience,

A Flash in the Pan 165
maintaining his legitimate right, inherited from the Roman
paterfamilias, of life or death over his family. One day when,
during a thrashing, Nai's had dared to lift a hand to defend
herself, hehadalmostkilledher. AftersuchpunishmentNai'swas
left inwardly boiling with rage: she would sit on the ground in
somedark corner, dry-eyed, broodingovertheindignityshehad
suffered. Inhersombre furyshewould staylikethisinsilencefor
hours on end, turning over in her mind plans ofvengeance that
she would never put into effect. It was herown father's blood in
her that was angrily rebelling, in the blind urge always to be on
top. She would look scornfully at her cowed old mother trem-
bling with fear as she humiliated herselfbefore her father. She
would often say: 'IfI had a husband like that, I'd kill him!'
Nai's had even come to prefer being thrashed becauseat least it
gave her a shaking-up; at other times her life was so narrow and
restricted that she was consumed with boredom. Her father
forbade her to go down to L'Estaque and kept her constantly
busy on jobs up at La Blancarde; and even when there was
nothing to do, he wanted to keep his eye on her. So she used to
look forwardimpatientlytothemonth ofSeptember, foras soon
as the owners moved in, Micoulin was obliged to relax his strict
supervision, for Nai's used to run errands for Madame Rostand
and was ableto makeup forthesortoflifesheled during therest
ofthe year.
One morning, old Micoulin had realized that this grown-up
daughter of his could bring a couple of francs a day into the
family. So he released her and packed her offto work in a tile-
factory. Although the work was very hard, Nai's was delighted.
She would set offin the morning for the other side ofL'Estaque
andstaythereuntilevening, toilingawayinthesun, turningover
tiles so that they dried. It was a manual labourer'sjob and her
hands became all rough; but she no longer felt her father on her
back all the time; she could enjoy herself in the company of
young men without constraint. And in this laborious job, she
developed and turned into a beauty. In the hot sun, her face
became a deep golden brown and her sturdy neck took on the
appearance ofa rich collarofamber; herjet-black hair grew thick
and long, as though to protect her fate from the whiplash ofher
curls; the constant bending andstretching gaveherthestronu and
supplebodyofa youngathlete; and indeed, when shestraightened

166 A Flash in the Pan
up amidst the red clay tiles spread out on the beaten earth, she
looked like some antique Amazon, a terracotta statue suddenly
brought into vigorous life by the flaming rays ofthe sun. When
Micoulin saw that his daughter was becoming such a beauty, his
beady little eyes started watching her like a hawk. She was too
cheerful: he couldn't believe thatit was natural fora girl to beso
happy. And he promised himself to strangle any sweethearts
whom he caught prowling round her skirts. However, although
Nai's couldhavehaddozensofsweethearts, shediscouragedthem
andmadefunofalltheyoung menshemet. Heronlygood friend
was a hunchback who worked in the same tile-factoryas herself,
a little man who wentby thenameofToine. Hehadbeensentas
a foundling from Aix and had been adopted by L'Estaque. This
little Punch-like figure had a charming laugh and Nai's tolerated
himbecausehewassogentle. Shecouldtwisthimroundherlittle
finger and would often bully him to vent her bad temper after
herfatherhad given herathrashing. Inanycase, Toinewasofno
importance; everybody madefunofhim. Micoulinoncesaidthat
he had no objection to his daughter's little hunchback; he knew
her too well, she was too proud.
That year when Madame Rostand had moved into La
Blancarde, she asked her tenant ifhe would lend her Nai's as one
ofherown maids was ill. It so happened that the tile-factory had
laid off its workers at the time; moreover Micoulin, however
harsh he might be towards his own family, was more forth-
coming when it came to his landlord and would have given
his consent even had the request for his daughter's services in-
convenienced him. Monsieur Rostand had had to go to Paris
to deal with some pressing business and Frederic and his mother
were left alone. During the first few days the young man had
usuallyfelt theneedto takeplentyofexercise; thefreshairwould
tempt him to go fishing with Micoulin, helping him to set or
pull up his nets; or else he would go for long walks through
the gorges that run down to L'Estaque. Then, after his initial
burst ofenthusiasm, he would lie day after day drowsing in the
shade ofthe pine trees on the edge ofthe terrace, watching the
monotonous bluesea and eventually growing bored. Generally a
fortnight at La Blancarde was all he could stand. After that he
would think up some excuse to slip away every morning into
Marseilles.

A Flash in the Pan 167
The day after the owners had arrived, Micoulin called up to
Frederic'sbedroomassoonasthesun wasup. Hewasonhisway
to haul up his pots, those long wicker baskets with a narrow
apertureusedtocatchfishthatfeedonthebottom. Buttheyoung
man turned a deafear to the invitation; he did not seem tempted
by the idea ofgoing fishing. When he got up he settled himself
under the pine trees, flat on his back, gazing up at the sky. His
mother was surprised not to see him go offon one ofhis long
excursions, from which he would return ravenous.
'Aren't you going out?' she asked him.
'No, mother,' hereplied. 'As Papa's nothere I'll stay and keep
you company.'
Micoulin heard this reply and muttered in his dialect:
'Ah well, Monsieur Frederic will soon be nipping off to
Marseilles.'
However, FredericdidnotgointoMarseilles. Theweekwentby
andstillhelayflatonhisbackchangingpositiononlywhenthesun
caught up with him. As a pretext, hetooka book with him but he
hardly glanced at it; more often than not, it lay unread on the
bakedearth among the dry pineneedles. Theyoung man did not
even look at the sea; he kept his eye on the house, seemingly
interested in the housework being performed by the maids as
they kept coming and going all the time across the terrace; and
when it was Nais who went by, a glint of desire lit up in the
young master's eye. Then Nais would walk more slowly, sway-
ing her hips as she did so without once looking in his direction.
This little game lasted for several days. In his mother's
presence, Frederic would treat Nais almost rudely if she was
serving clumsily; and when he rebuked her, the girl coyly
lowered her eyes, almost as ifenjoying his irritation.
One day at lunch, Nais broke a salad bowl. Frederic flared up:
'What a stupid girl!' he exclaimed. 'What on earth does she
think she's up to?'
And he stood up in a rage, saying that his trousers were
completely ruined. In fact, a drop ofoil had fallen on to his knee;
but he made a tremendous fuss:
'What arc you staring at?' he shouted. 'Don'tjust stand there!
Bring me a napkin and some water.'
Naisdipped thecornerofatablenapkin intoacupofwaterand
knelt down in front ofFrederic to rub out the stain

168 A Flash in the Pan
'Don't bother,' Madame Rostand was saying. 'There's no
need.'
But the girl kept hold ofher master's leg and continued to rub
it vigorously with her splendid strong arms. He still kept on
scolding her.
'I've never seen such carelessness,' he said roughly. 'She
couldn'thavebroken thesaladbowlnearertome ifshe'dtried.
. .
Our china wouldn't last long in Aix ifshe was serving us there!'
His harsh reaction was so disproportionate to the fault that
when Nai'shad lefttheroom, MadameRostand feltcompelledto
expostulate and calm him down:
'Whathave you gotagainstthepoorgirl? Anyonewould think
that you can't stand her. Please try to treat her more politely.
Remember that you used to play together as children and she's
not like an ordinary servant.'
'Well, shejust gets on my nerves, that's all,' replied Frederic,
making sure that he sounded very fierce.
That evening, after dark, Nai's and Frederic met at the end of
the terrace where they could not be seen. They had not yet
exchanged a single word alone. Nobody in the house could hear
them. Inthewarm, still airascentofresindrifteddown fromthe
pinetrees. In a gentlewhisper, fallingback into thesamefamiliar
way ofspeaking they had used as children, she asked:
'Why did you lose your temper with me like that, Frederic?
You were horrible.'
Hisreply was totakeholdofherhands, drawhertowardshim
and kiss her full on the lips. She did not protest and then went
away, leaving him behind; hesatdownon theparapetbecausehe
didnot want his motherto see him in such a stateofexcitement.
Ten minutes later, Nai's was serving at table with her usual airof
rather aloofcomposure.
Frederic and Nai's had made no arrangement to see each other
again but one night they met at the edge ofthe terrace under an
olivetree, at the top ofthe cliff; during the meal they had several
timeslookedateachotherwithburninginsistence. Itwasa warm
night and Frederic had remained standing at his window,
smoking cigarettes as he peered into the darkness. At about one
o'clock hesaw adimshapeslippingalongtheterrace. Heclimbed
down to a shed roofand then, with the help ofsome long poles
lying in a corner, he clambered down on to the terrace, taking

A Flash in the Pan 169
care not to risk waking his mother. Once on the ground he
walked over to the old olive tree, certain that Nai's was waiting
for him.
'Is that you?' he asked in a low voice.
'Yes,' she replied simply.
Hesatdownbesideherintheshortgrassandputhisarmround
her waist. She rested her head on his shoulder. For a moment
they did not speak. The old olive tree with its gnarled trunk
sheltered them under its leafy roof. In front of them the sea
stretched out blackand still underthestars. Attheendofthebay
Marseilleslayhiddeninahaze;only thePlanierlighthouseonthe
left kept shining out every minute, its yellow beam piercing the
nightandthenvanishing; andthereseemedsomethinggentleand
tender in this light that continually disappeared on the horizon
only suddenly to return.
'Is your father away, then?' asked Frederic.
'I climbed out ofthe window,' she replied in her deep voice.
They did not speak of their love; it had deep roots in their
childhood and now they could remember playing together when
desire was already stirring in their childish games. Lovingly they
began to stroke each other; nothing seemed more natural. They
could not put their feelings into words: all they wanted was to
makelove. Hefoundherlovelyandexcitingwithhercountrytan
andearthysmell; she felttheprideofagirlsooftenthrashedwho
wasbecomingthe mistressofheryoung master. Shegaveherself
to him. When thecoupleclimbed back into their rooms thesame
way as they had come, day was beginning to break.
Itwasawonderfulmonth. Therewasnotadropofrainandthe
blue satin ofthe sky was not speckled by a single cloud. The sun
rosepink and glassyandsetinagoldenhaze. Yetitwasnevertoo
hot, for the sea breeze rose and died away with the sun; then
followed the nights, deliciously cool and fragrant with the scent
ofherbs which, warmed during the day, perfumed the darkness.
The countryside round L'Estaque is superb. Broad promon-
tories ot rock project on each side ofthe bay while the ottshorc
islands seem to block the horizon, turning the sea into a vast
lagoon, intensely blue m colour when the weather is tine. In the

170 A Flash in the Pan
distance, at the foot of the mountains, lies Marseilles with its
houses risingintiers on thefoothills;in clearweatheryou cansee
from L'Estaque the grey jetty of La Joliette* with the delicate
mastworkoftheshipsintheharbour; furtherbackcanbeseenthe
housefronts setin clumps oftrees, and thedazzling whitechapel
ofNotre Dame de la Garde on a height towering up to the sky.
And from Marseilles the whole coast curves round, cut by wide
inletsbeforeitreachesL'Estaqueandfringedwithfactorieswhich
nowand thenbelchforthlong plumesofsmoke. Whenthesunis
atits zenith, the sea, looking almost black, seems to be slumber-
ing between the two white rocky promontories, set off with
warmertintsofbrownandyellow. Itislikesomevastpainting, a
glimpse of a corner of the Orient rising up in the blinding,
shimmering light.
But L'Estaque does not have only this outlook over the sea.
The village is backed by mountains and crossed by roads which
vanishinto the midstofajumble offallen rocks. The Marseilles-
Lyons railway line runs among the massive rocks, bridging
ravines and suddenly penetrating into the rock itself, to emerge
nearly three miles further on through the Nerthe tunnel, the
longest in France. Nothing can rival these wild and majestic
gorges which snake through the hills, the narrow tracks at the
foot of precipitous chasms whose arid slopes are planted with
pinetrees, thewallsofrocktinged with shadesofrustandblood.
Sometimes these gorges open out and you can see a tiny olive
grovein thehollowofavalleyoranisolatedhousehidingbehind
its painted frontandclosedshutters. Thentherearethetracksfull
ofbrambles, impenetrable thickets, tumbled boulders, dried up
torrents, every imaginable feature to surprise you as you walk
through the scrub. Andontop, abovetheblack lineofpines, the
endless silken ribbon ofthe delicate blue sky.
Thereisalsothenarrowstripofcoasthemmedinbetweenrock
and sea, the red earth where the tile-factories, the main industry
oftheregion, haveexcavatedimmense holestoextractclay. The
soil is broken up and full ofgullies, sparsely planted with a few
stunted trees which seem as iftheir source oflife has dried up
under a searing gust ofpassion. Walking along the tracks you
couldimaginethatyouareonalayerofplasterinwhichyousink
uptoyouranklesandtheslightestbreathofwindsendsupclouds
of dust which settle on the hedgerows. Little grey lizards lie

A Flash in the Pan 171
drowsing at the foot of walls as hot as ovens while flights of
chirpinggrasshoppers, cracklinglikesparks, fleefromthefurnace
ofscorched grass. In theheavy, motionless, slumbering noonday
air the only sign oflife is the monotonous chant ofthe cicadas.
For a whole month this countryside offire and flame was the
sceneoftheyoungcouple'slove. Itwasasifthetorridskyhadset
firetotheirblood. Forthefirstweektheywerecontenttomeetat
night under the same olive tree on the edge ofthe cliff. Their
ecstasy was beyond words; and as the cool night calmed their
frenzied lovemaking, they would sometimes lie with their faces
and theirburning hands turnedtowardsthepassing breezewhich
refreshed them like a mountain stream. Below them at the
bottom ofthe cliff, the sea murmured its delight. The pungent
smell ofseaweed intoxicated them with desire. Then, as they lay
ineachother's arms, tiredand contented, they would look across
the water towards Marseilles glowing in the night and the red
lightsattheentrancetotheharbourreflectedblood-redinthesea;
the flickering gaslights marking the long sinuous line of the
suburbs to right and left; in the middle, over the town, other
lights sparkled and glittered while the gardens on Bonaparte Hill
showed up as two twinkling lines which sloped up and curved
overtheskyline. Alltheselightsonthefarsideofthesleepingbay
seemed to be illuminating some dream town that would vanish
with the dawn. And the vast bowl of the sky above the dark
confused shapes on the horizon cast a spell over them, making
them stir uneasily and clasp each other more tightly. The stars
overhead flooded them with their radiance; in Provence, on such
clear nights as these, the constellations seem like living fire.
Trembling atthespectacleofthesevastspaces, they would lower
their eyes and look only at the single star of the Plainer
lighthouse, watchingits friendlybeam affectionately as they once
more sought each other's lips.
But one night they found themselves being watched by the
round face ofthe full moon on the horizon. A trail offire shone
overtheseaas ifthegolden scales ofa giant fish, somedeepwater
eel. were gliding in endless rings over the surface and a yellow
half-lightdimmedthelightsofMarseillesasit bathed thehillsand
inlets of the bay. As the moon rose higher, the light grew
brighter and the shadows sharper. This silent witness o\ their
lovemaking embarrassed them. They became afraid that thev

172 A Flash in the Pan
mightbecaughtiftheystayedtooclosetoLaBlancardeandnext
time they met they climbed over a piece ofbroken-down wall
and went in search of all the other hiding-places which the
countryside offered. First they took refuge in a disused tile-
factory: the ruined shed had a cellar underneath in which the
mouths oftwo kilns were still gaping open; but this hole in the
ground depressed them, for they preferred to feel the open sky
abovethem. Sotheyexploredtheredclayquarriesanddiscovered
delightful little nooks only a few yards square where the only
sound to be heard was the barking of the dogs guarding the
homesteads. They went even further afield, straying along the
rockycoastgoingtowards Niolon;theyalsofollowedthenarrow
tracks at the bottom ofthe gorges, looking forcaves and remote
gullies. For a whole fortnight their nights oflove were full of
playful adventure. The moon had gone and it was dark once
more; butLaBlancardenowseemedtohavebecometoosmallto
hold their love, they needed the whole length and breadth ofthe
land to consummate it.
Onenight as they werewalking alonga pathaboveL'Estaque,
making for the gorge ofthe Nerthe, they thought they heard a
muffled footstep following them behind a small spinney ofpine
trees beside the path. They stopped and listened uneasily.
'Can you hear that sound?' Frederic asked.
'Yes, it must be a stray dog,' said Nai's in a low voice.
They went on; but at the next bend in the path, when the
spinney came to an end, they plainly saw a black figure slip
behind some rocks. It was certainly ahumanbeing butofan odd
shape, like a hunchback. Nai's gave a slight exclamation.
'Stay here,' she said quickly.
She ran off in search of the shadowy figure. Soon Frederic
heard a rapid whispering. Then she came back, a trifle pale but
calm.
'What was it?' he asked.
'Nothing,' she replied.
Then, after a moment's hesitation, she went on:
'Ifyou hear footsteps, don't be scared. It's Toine. You know,
the hunchback. He wants to keep guard over us.'
In fact, Frederic had sometimes felt that they were being
followed by a shadowy figure providing a sort of protection
around them. Nai's had several times tried to chase Toine away;

A Flash in the Pan 173
but the poor creature was asking only to be her watchdog: he
wouldn't show himself, he wouldn't make a sound, why not let
him do what he wanted? Ever since then, had the lovers listened
during their passionate embraces in ruined tile-factories, in the
middleofdisusedquarriesorinthedepthsofremotegorges, they
wouldhavedetectednearby thesoundofstifledsobs. Itwastheir
watchdog Toine, crying with his face buried in his hands.
And not only did they want their nights to themselves; they
were growing bolder and prepared to take advantage ofevery
opportunity. Often if they met in a corridor or in one of the
roomsofLaBlancarde, theywouldexchangealongkiss. Evenat
meal times when she was serving and he had asked for some
breadora tablenapkin, he would manageto squeezeherfingers.
The straitlaced Madame Rostand noticed nothing and still kept
accusinghersonofbeingtoostricttowards his formerplaymate.
One day she nearly caught them but, hearing the rustle ofher
dress, the girl quickly knelt down and started dusting off her
young master's shoes with her handkerchief.
They enjoyed a thousand and one other little pleasures. After
dinner, inthecooloftheevening, MadameRostandoftenfeltlike
awalk; shewouldtakeherson'sarm andthey would godownto
L'Estaque, with Nai's carrying her shawl,just in case. The three
of them would walk down to watch the return of the sardine
fishermen. Out at sea, lamps were bobbing up and down and
soon they could pick out the black shapes ofthe boats as they
slowly rowed in with a muffled creaking ofoars. On the days
whenthecatchhadbeen plentiful, therewereshoutsofjoyas the
women ran up with theirbaskets and the three-mancrew ofeach
boat began to empty the nets which had been piled up under the
thwarts. The nets looked like a sort of broad dark ribbon
spangled with silver; the sardines caught in the mesh by the gills
were still threshing about, glinting like metal strips before
dropping into the baskets likea shower ofsilvercoins in the pale
lightofthelamps. Madame Rostand wouldoften remain looking
ataboat, fascinatedbythespectacle; shewouldletgoofherson's
arm and stay talking to the fishermen while Frederic, standing
beside Nai's outside the circle oflight, would squeeze her wrists
with all his might.
Meanwhile, as usual, old Micoulin remained as silent as .1
dogged, wily animal, whether he was going ofl to do lomc

174 A Flash in the Pan
fishingor coming todosome digging. Butrecently, beneaththis
same sly air, there was an uneasy look in his beady grey eyes.
Withoutsaying awordhewouldkeepcasting sidelong glancesat
his daughter. She seemed changed and there was something
about her that he could sensebutnot explain. One day when she
daredtostanduptohim, hestruckhersohardthathesplitherlip
and that evening Frederic, noticing as he kissed her that her lip
was swollen, sharply questioned her.
'Oh, it'snothing,justaslap my fathergaveme,'sheanswered.
Hervoicewasgrim; butwhen Fredericshowedannoyanceand
said he would do something about it, she replied:
'No, lethimbe, Icandealwithit.
. .
Don'tworry, itwon'tlast
for ever!'
She never referred to her father's harsh treatment ofher but on
thedayswhenhehad beenhittingher, sheclung toherlovermore
passionately than ever, as though taking revenge on the old man.
For the last three weeks, Nai's had been slipping out almost
every night. At first she had been extremely cautious but with
increasing confidence she had grown more reckless. When she
realized that her father suspected something, she again became
cautious and on two successive nights failed to turn up as
arranged. Her mother had been telling her that her husband had
been unable to sleep at night: instead, he would get up and
wander around the house. But on the third day, Frederic's
beseeching look made her throw caution to the winds. She came
downtotheterraceatabouteleveno'clock, promisingherselfnot
to stay more than an hour; she was hoping that her father would
besosoundasleepintheearlypartofthenightthathewould not
hear her.
Frederic was waiting for her under the olive trees. Without
mentioningher fears, sherefusedto go furtherafield: shefelttoo
tired, she said, which happened to be true since, unlike Frederic,
she could not sleep during the day. They lay down in their usual
spot above the sea, facing the lights ofMarseilles. The Planier
lighthouse was casting its friendly beam and as she lay watching
it, Nai's fell asleep on Frederic's shoulder. He did not move and
gradually, overcome by fatigue, his own eyes closed. Clasped in
each other's arms, his breath mingled with hers.
Not a sound could be heard but the chirping of the green
grasshoppers. The sea was sleeping, like the lovers. Then a dark

A Flash in the Pan 175
shape came out ofthe shadows and approached. It was Micoulin
who had been awakened by the creaking ofa window and had
found Nai's's bedroom empty. He armed himselfwith a hatchet,
just in case, and left the house. When hesaw a black patch under
the olive tree, he gripped the handle ofthe hatchet more firmly.
Butthetwo young peopledidnotmoveandhewas abletocome
right up to them, bend down and look at their faces. As he
recognized the young master, a stifled cry escaped him. But he
could not kill him like that: the blood would spurt out on to the
ground and give him away. The price was too high.
He straightened up; two deep creases furrowed the corners of
his mouth while his leathery old face was set in grim determina-
tion and suppressed fury. But a peasant can't kill his master
openlybecauseeven when dead and buried, the masteris still the
stronger. So, shaking his head, old Micoulin crept stealthily
away, leaving the two lovers to sleep on.
When Nai's came in shortly before dawn, very anxious at
having been out so long, she found the windowjust as she had
left it. At breakfast, as Micoulin looked at her chewing her piece
ofdry bread, he showed no sign ofemotion. She felt reassured:
her father did not know anything.
'Aren't you interested in going fishing these days, Monsieur
Frederic?' old Micoulin asked one evening.
Madame Rostand was sitting on the terrace in the shade ofthe
pine trees embroidering a handkerchief while her son was
reclining nearby, idly tossing pebbles.
'No, not really,' the young man replied. 'I'm getting lazy.'
'You'remissingalot,' thefarmerwenton. 'Yesterdayourpots
were full of fish. You can catch anything you like at the
moment. . . It'd give you something to do. Why not come out
with me tomorrow morning?'
He seemed so friendly that Frederic, thinking ofNai's and not
wanting to offend him, finally agreed.
'All right, I'll come. . . But I warn you, you'll haveto wake me
up. At five ill the morning I'm still sleeping like .1 log.'
Madame Rostand had stopped her embroidering and was
looking .» trifle uneasy.

176 A Flash in the Pan
'And above all, mind you take care,' she said. 'I'm always
scared when you're out in a boat.'
Next morning, when old Micoulin called up to Frederic, his
windowremainedfirmlyshut, sothefarmersaidtohisdaughter,
in a voice in which she failed to detect the sarcasm:
'You go up, Nai's. . . Perhaps he'll hear you.'
Soit wasNai's whowoke Fredericup. Stillhalfasleep, hetried
to pull herinto his warm bed but, quickly returning his kiss, she
slipped out of his reach. Ten minutes later the young man
appeared, dressed in a grey linen suit. Old Micoulin was sitting
on the parapet ofthe terrace, waiting patiently.
'It's quite cool already,' he said. 'You'd better bring a scarf
Nai's went upstairs to fetch one. Then the two men went off
down the steep steps leading to the sea while Nai's stood looking
afterthem. Whentheyreachedthebottom, old Micoulin glanced
up at Nai's and again two deep furrows creased thecorners ofhis
mouth.
The mistral, that terrible wind from the north-east, had
been blowing for the last five days. The previous evening it had
died down but at sunrise it had started to blow again, although
not very strongly at first. At this early hour, the angry sea,
whipped up by the gusty wind, was a deep mottled blue and
under the slanting rays ofthe rising sun, the crest ofeach wave
wastippedwithfire. Theskywaspracticallywhite, likeapieceof
crystal. Inthefardistance, Marseillescouldbeseensoclearlythat
you might have counted the windows ofthe houses, while the
rocksround thebaywereall gleamingina mostdelicateshadeof
pink.
'It's going to be rough coming back,' observed Frederic.
'Could be,' grunted Micoulin laconically.
He was rowing in silence and did not turn round. The young
man looked for a moment athis bent back, his thoughts turning
to Nai's; all he could see was the nape ofthe old man's weather-
beaten neck and the two red lobes ofhis ears, pierced with gold
rings. Thenheleantsidewaysandlookedwithinterestdowninto
the sea which was racing past their boat. The water was be-
coming ruffled and the only things he could see were long
wisps of seaweed floating on the surface, barely visible, like
some drowned woman's hair. He felt sad and even a trifle
frightened.

A Flash in the Pan 177
'I say, Micoulin,'hesaidafteralongpause. 'Thewindseemsto
begettingup. Let'sbecareful. Youknow I swimlikealeadsoldier.'
'All right, I know that,' replied Micoulin in his flat voice.
And he kept on steadily rowing. The boat was beginning to
bob up and down and the little fire-tipped tops ofthe waves had
turned into crests offoam blown up into spray by the gusts of
wind. Frederic did not want to show that he was scared; but he
did not feel at all easy in his mind and would have given a good
deal to be closer to the shore. Becoming impatient he called out:
'Where the devil have you put your pots today?. Have we
. .
got to go to Algiers?'
But old Micoulin replied in the same phlegmatic way:
'We're nearly there, we're nearly there.'
He suddenly let go ofhis oars, stood up and looked towards
the shore for his two landmarks; he then had to row on for
another five minutes before he reached the centre of the cork
buoys marking the position ofhis pots. Then, before starting to
haul them up, he looked back for a few seconds towards La
Blancarde; Frederic followed his gaze and could clearly see a
patch ofwhite underneath the pines. It was Nai's' pale dress; she
was still leaning over the parapet ofthe terrace.
'How many pots have you got?' asked Frederic.
'Thirty-five. We mustn't be too long.'
Micoulin caught hold of the nearest float and heaved up the
first basket. Thesea was very deep indeed here and there seemed
to be no end to the rope. Finally the pot surfaced, together with
thelargestone which held it on thebottom; and as soon asit was
out ofthe water, three fish started flapping about like birds in a
cage. It was like the sound ofwings beating. There was nothing
in the second pot but in the third there was a spiny lobster
violentlyflippingitstail, afishnotcaughtveryoften. Seeingthis,
Frederic becamequiteexcited and forgot his fears; heleanedover
thesideoftheboat, hisheartbeating fastashewaited forthenext
potto appear. Each timeheheard thesoundofwings beating, he
experienced the same feeling as a sportsman who hasjust bagged
a bird. Meanwhile all the thirty-five pots were hoisted up one by
one, streaming with water, into the boat. There were at least
fifteen pounds offish, a splendid haul for the Bay ofMarseilles
which for various reasons, chiefly through using nets with too
fine a mesh, had been considerably depleted in recent yean

178 A Flash in the Pan
'That's that,' said Micoulin. 'Now let's get back.'
He carefully stowed his pots in the stern. But Frederic again
became rather anxious when he saw that the old man was
preparingtohoistthesailandasked whetheritwouldn'tbewiser
to row back, in view ofthe weather. Micoulinmerely shrugged:
heknew what he was doing. And beforefinally hoisting the sail,
he cast a glance once more towards La Blancarde. Nai's was still
there, in her white dress.
Then, with the suddenness ofa clap ofthunder, the disaster
occurred. Later on, when trying to explain to himselfwhat had
happened, Frederic remembered that theboathadbeen caughtin
a violent squall ofwind and immediately capsized. And he could
recall nothing else, only a sensation of extreme cold and an
overwhelming feeling ofterror. Heowed his lifetoa miracle: he
had been thrown on to the large sail which held him up. Seeing
theaccident, somefishermencametotherescueofhimandofold
Micoulin, who was already striking out for the shore.
Madame Rostand was still asleep and they did not tell her of
her son's narrow escape. Dripping with water, Frederic and
Micoulin were met at the foot ofthe terrace by Nai's who had
witnessed the dramatic incident from afar.
'Just my luck,' theoldman wasshouting. 'We'dpickedup our
pots and werejust starting back. You can't win!'
. .
Nai's was as pale as a sheet; she glared at her father.
'Yes, that's right,' she said, in a low voice. 'You can't win. . .
but if you yaw with the wind behind you know what
happens
Micoulin flared up.
'Come on, you idle good-for-nothing! What do you think
you're doing? Can't you see that Monsieur Frederic is shivering?
Give him a hand quickly!'
A day in bed wasallthat Fredericneeded to recover. Hetold his
mother that he'd had a sick headache. Next day he found a very
grim-facedNai's. Sheturnedadeafeartoanysuggestionofmeeting
but when they happened to run across each other in the hall one
evening, she spontaneously hugged him and gavehimapassionate
kiss. SheneverconfidedhersuspicionstoFredericbutfromthenon
she kept guard over him. Then, after a week, she began to have
doubts. Her father was following his normal routine and even
seemed gentler than usual, for he struck her less often.

—
A Flash in the Pan 179
One ofthe Rostands' outings every year was to go and have a
bouillabaisse on the beach in a rocky cove. Afterwards, as there
werepartridgesinthehills, themenoftheparty wouldgooffon
ashoot. ThisyearMadameRostanddecidedtotakeNaisalongto
help serve the meal and she refused to listen to the objections of
her father whose displeasure was plainly shown in the deep
furrows ofhis brutal-looking face.
They left early. The weather was perfect, neither too hot nor
too cold. The deep blue sea stretched out as smooth as a mirror
beneaththegoldenraysofthesun; wheretherewerecurrents, the
bluewasruffledandtookonmetallicpurpletints, whilstwhereit
wasstill, thebluewaspaler, milkyandtransparent, likeapieceof
shot-silk stretching farouttotheglassyhorizon. Theboatglided
gently through the water, as calm as a mill-pond.
They landed on a narrow beach at the mouth ofa gorge and
pickedaspotonapatchofsunburntturftoserveasapicnictable.
The preparation of the bouillabaisse was quite a ceremony.
First, Micoulin wentoffbyhimselftohaul up his pots, which he
had setthedaybefore. By thetimehereturned, Nais hadalready
gathered enough thyme, wild lavender and dry twigs to make a
good big fire. Today it was the old man's job to make the
bouillabaisse, thattraditional fish-soupofProvencetherecipe for
which is passed from father to son amongst the fishermen along
the coast. His was an awesome bouillabaisse, extremely peppery
and giving off an overpowering smell of crushed garlic. The
Rostands watched its preparation with amused interest.
'Well, Micoulin,' said Madame Rostand, condescending to
makeajoke for once in honour oftheoccasion, 'is it going to be
up to last year's?'
Micoulin seemed in the best ofspirits. First he cleaned the fish
in seawater while Nais took a big pan out oftheboat. The actual
cooking took hardly any timeat all: the fish wa — s put into the pan
and covered in water, with onions, olive oil halfa glassful
garlic, ahandful ofpepperanda tomato; then thepan was puton
the fire, a blazing fire on which you could have roasted a whole
sheep. Thefishermensaythatthesecretofmakingabouillabaisse
lies in the heat; the pan must be completely hidden in the flames.
Meanwhile the farmerwas solemnly cutting slicesofbread intoa
salad bowl. After half an hour he poured the liquid on to the
bread and served the fish separately.

180 A Flash in the Pan
'Well, that's it,' said Micoulin. 'Remember that it's got to be
eaten piping hot.'
And the bouillabaisse was eaten to the accompaniment ofthe
customary witticisms.
'I say, Micoulin, how much gunpowder did you put into it?'
'It's first-rate but you need a cast-iron throat.'
He sat quietly eating, gulping down a slice ofbread in each
mouthful. He also showed how flattered he felt at lunching with
his landlords by sitting slightly to one side.
Afterlunch, everyonerested until thesun hadlost a littleofits
heat. Meanwhile the dazzling red-spattered rocks were mottled
by the deep shadows ofthe dark, bushy, evergreen oaks and the
pinewoodsmarcheduptheslopesofthegorgeinregularcolumns
like an army oftiny soldiers. The air was hot and heavy with
silence.
Madame Rostand had brought along her everlasting piece of
embroidery which never left her hands. Nai's was sitting beside
herwatchingwithapparentinterestthemovementofherneedles.
But she was keeping a close watch on her father. He was
stretched out on the ground a few yards away, having a snooze.
Frederic was asleep, too, a little further away, his face hidden
under the turned-down brim ofhis straw-hat.
At about four o'clock, they woke up. Micoulin swore that he
knew ofa covey ofpartridges at the far end ofthe gorge. He'd
seen them again only three days ago. Hearing this, Frederic
allowed himself to be tempted and they both picked up their
guns.
'Now please take great care,' called Madame Rostand. 'Ifyour
foot slips, you can easily shoot yourself
'Yes, it does happen,' said Micoulin placidly.
They went off and disappeared behind some rocks. Nai's
suddenly stood up and followed them at a distance, murmuring:
'I'll go and see as well.'
Insteadofkeeping to thepath, whenshereached theendofthe
gorge she took to the bushes and went quickly along to the left,
taking care not to set any boulders rolling. At last she caught
sight ofFrederic standing at a bend in the track on the other side
ofthe gorge. They had probably already flushed the partridges
because he moved on quickly, bending forward with his gun at
theready. Herfatherwas notin sight; butthensuddenlyshesaw

A Flash in the Pan 181
him close by, on the same slope as herself; he was crouching
down and seemed to be waiting forsomething. Twice he put his
guntohisshoulder. Ifthepartridgesweretoflybetweenhimand
Frederic, the two might easily hit each other as they fired.
Slipping from bush to bush, Nais finally reached a position
directly behind the old man and stood there, anxiously waiting.
Minutes went by. Opposite them, Frederic had vanished in a
dipintheground. Thenhecameintosightagainandstoodforan
instant, notmoving. Onceagain, still crouchingdown, Micoulin
took careful aim at the young man. But Nais leaped forward and
kickedupthebarrelofthegun which wentoffwith aloudreport
that reverberated round the gorge.
Theoldmansprangtohis feetandwhenhesawNais, heseized
his gun by the barrel as ifto brain her with the butt. White as a
sheet, the girl stood her ground, her eyes flaming with fury. He
did not dare to hit her but merely muttered in dialect:
'Don't worry, I'll get him yet!'
When Micoulin had fired, the partridges had flown off and
Frederic had brought down a braceofthem. The Rostands made
their way back to La Blancarde. Their tenant was pulling on the
oars, still with the same calm, dogged look on his brutal face.
September had come to an end. After a violent storm, the air
had becomemuchcooler, withheavynightdews. Thedays were
drawing inand NaiswasfirmlyrefusingtomeetFredericatnight
on the excuse that she was too tired and that they would catch
coldlyingontherain-soakedground. Butasshecameovertothe
house at about six o'clock every morning and Madame Rostand
rarelystirreduntilsomethreehourslater, shewould gouptothe
young man's room and stay there for a while, listening all the
time for the slightest sound through the door, which she always
left open.
This was the penod oftheir love when she showed her greatest
tenderness. Shewouldhold Fredericclose, slippingherhand round
his neck to bring his face near to hers and look at him passionately
withhereyesfulloftears. Shealwayshadthefeelingthatshewould
never see him again. Then she would quickly cover his face with
kisses as ifpromising that she would be able to defend him.

182 A Flash in the Pan
'What's wrong withNa'is?' MadameRostandkeptasking. 'She
looks different every day.'
And indeed she was losing weight, her cheeks were becoming
hollowandhereyesnolongersparkled. Therewerelong periods
whenshe would sit saying nothing and then shewould suddenly
start up like someone waking from a dream.
'Ifyou're not feeling well, girl,' Madame Rostand kept telling
her, 'you must look after yourself.'
'Ohno, ma'am, I'm verywellandveryhappy. I'veneverbeen
so happy.'
Onemorning as they werechecking thelinen, sheventured to
ask:
'Will you be staying on late at La Blancarde this year?'
'Until the end ofOctober,' replied Madame Rostand.
And Na'is stood for a moment with a faraway look in hereyes
and then, without realizing that she was speaking out loud, she
exclaimed:
'Still three more weeks!'
A constant struggle was taking place inside her. She longed to
keepFredericclosetoherallthetimebutfeltcontinuallytemptedto
cryout: 'Goaway!' Shewasgoingtolosehim;fromtheirveryfirst
meeting she had told herselfthat their season oflove would never
return. One evening, when she was feeling particularly depressed,
sheaskedherselfwhethersheshouldnotletFredericbekilledbyher
father, so that he would never go with any other woman; but the
thought ofFrederic, with his soft white skin and genteel ways, so
muchmorelikealittleladythanherself, lyingdead, wasunbearable.
No, shewouldsavehimwithouthisknowinganythingaboutit;he
wouldquicklyforgetherbutshewouldbehappyintheknowledge
that he was alive. In the morning she would often say to him:
'Don't go out, don't go in a boat, the weather's treacherous!'
At other times she would advise him to go away from La
Blancarde.
'You must be bored, you won't love me any more. Go and
spend a few days in town.'
He was bewildered at these changes in her mood, and he was
finding his little country girl less lovely now that her face was
becomingthin and drawn andhewas beginning to besatiatedby
theviolenceoftheirlovemaking. Hewashankeringaftertheeau-
de-Cologne and face powder ofthe tarts ofAix and Marseilles.

A Flash in the Pan 183
Her father's words kept ringing in her ears: 'I'll get him yet! I'll
get him yet!' She would wake up in thenight dreaming that shots
werebeingfired. Hernerveswereallonedgeandshewouldcryout
ifa stoneslipped fromunderher feet. Wheneverhe was out ofher
sight, she felt worried about 'Monsieur Frederic'. And the most
terriblethingofall was that from morning till nightshecould hear
Micoulin doggedly muttering to himself: 'I'll get him yet!' Hehad
made no further reference to Frederic nor said a word nor made
the slightest movement. But for Nai's, the old man's eyes, his
every gesture, his whole demeanour told her that he would kill
his young masteratthefirstopportunity, when therewasnorisk
ofbeing brought tojustice. And afterwards it would be Nai's's
turn. In the meantime, hekicked heraboutlikesomeanimal that
had misbehaved.
'Isyourfatherstillashorribleasever?'Fredericaskedheroneday,
as he lay smoking a cigarette in bed while she bustled to and fro
tidying his room.
'Yes,' she answered. 'He's going out ofhis mind.'
And she showed him her legs, black and blue with bruises.
Thenshemutteredunderherbreaththewordsthatsheoftenused:
'It won't go on for ever.'
DuringthefirstfewdaysofOctober, sheseemedmoredepressed
thanever. Shewasabsent-mindedandherlipskeptmovingasifshe
was talking to herself. On several occasions Frederic saw her
standing at the top ofthe cliffapparently looking at the pine trees
around her and trying to measure the depth to the bottom. A few
dayslaterhecameuponherpickingfigs withthehunchbackToine
in a remote corner ofthe property. Toine used to come and help
Micoulin when there was too much to do on the farm. He was
standing under the fig tree with Nai's perched on a big branch
making funofhim byshoutingtohim toopenhismouthand then
throwing figs at him which squashed all over his face. The poor
creaturewasopeninghismouthandclosinghiseyesinanecstasyof
delight with an expression of sheer bliss on his big moon-face.
Fredericcouldhardly feeljealous, ofcourse, buthecouldnotresist
the temptation ofpulling her leg.
'Toinewouldgivehisrightarmforus,'sherepliedsharply. 'You
mustn't be unkind to him, we might need him.'
ThehunchbackcontinuedtocomeeverydaytoLaBlancardc. He
wasworkingontopofthecliff, diggingoutatrenchtocarrv water

184 A Flash in the Pan
to one end ofthe property where they were trying to establish a
vegetable garden. Sometimes Nai's would go and watch him and
there would be a lively conversation between the two. He
dawdled so much over his work that in the end Micoulin called
him a lazy good-for-nothing and hacked him on the shins, as he
did his daughter.
There had been two days ofrain. Frederic was due to return to
Aix the following week and had agreed to go out on one last
fishing expedition with Micoulin before leaving. Seeing Nai's
turn as white as a sheet, he smiled and added that this time he
wouldn't choose a day when the mistral was blowing. So,
realizing that he was leaving so soon, the girl agreed to have one
more meeting with him at night; they met on the terrace at about
one o'clock. The rain had washed the soil and a pervasive odour
ofcool greenery hung in the air. When this dried-up countryside
is thoroughly soaked, the colours and scents take on an extra-
ordinary intensity: the red earth bleeds, the pine trees glitter like
emeralds and the white rocks gleam like freshly laundered linen.
But at night the lovers could smell only the overpowering scent
ofthyme and lavender.
Force of habit led them towards the olive trees and Frederic
was just about to make for the one under which they had first
made love when Nai's, as if suddenly remembering something,
dragged him away from the edge saying in a trembling voice:
'No, not there!'
'What's the matter?' he enquired.
At first, she had difficulty in finding words; then she said that
after the heavy rains they had had yesterday, the cliff was not
safe. She added:
'Last year there was a landslide quite close to here.'
They sat down further away under another olive tree. Nai's
seemed uneasy as they lay in each other's arms. All at once she
burst into tears but refused to say what had upset her. Then she
became silent and cold and when Frederic teased her about the
way she now seemed bored with him, she flung herself wildly
into his arms and said in a whisper:
'You mustn't say that sort ofthing, I love you too much. But
I'm not v«ry well, you know. And then, this is the end for us,
you'll be going away. . . Oh God, it's the end!'
He vainly tried to comfort her: he'd be coming back sometimes

A Flash in the Pan 185
and they'd have another two months to look forward to next
autumn; but she kept shaking her head; she could feel that this
was the end. Finally they lapsed into an embarrassed silence and
lay looking at the sea with Marseilles twinkling in the distance
and the solitary Planier lighthouse now seeming to be shining
sadly, all alone; gradually this vast panorama filled them with
melancholy. When he left her at about three o'clock, he could feel
her shivering, icy-cold, as he again took her into his arms and
kissed her on the lips.
That night Frederic could not sleep. He read until dawn and
then, restless from lack ofsleep, when day broke he went over to
his window. At that very moment old Micoulin was on his way
to row out and inspect his lobster pots. As he was passing along
the terrace, he looked up:
'Well, Monsieur Frederic, not coming out with me this
morning?' he asked.
'No, not today, Micoulin,' Frederic called back. 'I've slept too
badly. Let's go tomorrow.'
Thefarmertrudged off; hehad to go down and fetch his boat at
the foot ofthe cliff, right underthe olivetree wherehehad caught
his daughter and Frederic together. When he had vanished from
sight, Frederic turned his gaze and was amazed to see Toine
already at work: the hunchback was near the olive tree using his
mattock to repair the trench that had been damaged by the heavy
rains. Theairwascoolanditwaspleasantstandingatthewindow.
Theyoungman wentbackintohis roomtorollhimselfacigarette;
but as he was making his way to the window again, he heard a
terrible noise, like a clap ofthunder. He rushed to the window.
It was a landslide. All he could see was Toinejumping clearin a
cloud of red dust, waving his mattock. At the edge of the
precipice the olive tree was slipping down out of sight and
dramatically plunging into the sea. A column of foam spouted
upwards. At the same time a dreadful cry rent the air. And then
Frederic saw Nai's who had dashed to the side and, bracing herself
on her arms, was leaning far out over the parapet to discover
what had happened down below. She hung there suspended with
her wrists as if cemented to the stonework. But she must have
sensed that someone was watching her, for she turned her head
and, seeing Frederic, shouted:
'My father! My father!'

186 A Flash in the Pan
An hour later they found the horribly mutilated body ofold
Micoulin under the pile ofboulders. Toine was feverishly explain-
inghowhehadnearlybeencarriedawayandeverybodyagreedthat
atrench shouldnot havebeen dug therebecauseofthe dangerof
percolating water. Old Madame Micoulin wept bitterly; Nai's
followed her father's coffin to the churchyard dry-eyed; her lids
were red but she had not been able to shed a single tear.
Theday afterthe disasterMadame Rostand insistedon return-
ing to Aix. Frederic was very glad to go, too, now that his
lovemaking had been disturbed by the tragedy; anyway, country
girls were definitely not a patch on local tarts. He began to lead
his old life again. Touched by his filial devotion at La Blancarde,
his mother now allowed him greater freedom, so he spent a
pleasant winter. He arranged for some charming ladies of the
towntocomeandvisithimfromMarseilles, puttingthemupina
room that he had rented in the suburbs. He spent nights away
from home and did not return to the cold family mansion in the
Rue du College unless his presence seemed absolutely indispens-
able; he had hopes that his life would flow on in this delightful
manner for ever.
At Eastertime, Monsieur Rostand had to go to La Blancarde.
Frederic found an excuse not to go with him. When the solicitor
returned, he said at lunch:
'Nai's is getting married.'
'Not really!' Frederic exclaimed, unable to believe his ears.
'Andyou'llneverguesswho to,' MonsieurRostandcontinued.
'She gave me all sorts ofgood reasons for it.'
Nai's was marrying the hunchback Toine. In this way, there
would be no change at La Blancarde: Toine would be kept on as
the tenant; he had been looking after the property ever since old
Micoulin's death.
The young man listened with an embarrassed smile. And then
he too agreed that it was an arrangement that suited everyone.
'Nai'shasbeguntolookquiteoldandugly,' wentonMonsieur
Rostand. 'I didn't recognize her. It's extraordinary how quickly
they go to seed, these girls living by the sea. She used to be very
good-looking, young Nai's.'
'I suppose so.Just a flash in the pan,' said Frederic, and calmly
finished offhis cutlet.

DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES
I DIEDon a Saturday morning at six a.m., after an illness lasting
three days. My poor wife was rummaging in a trunk for some
bed-linen. When shestood up and saw me stretchedout, all stiff,
with my eyes open, not breathing, she rushed over to my
bedside, thinking that I had fainted. She felt my hands and bent
over to look into my face. Then, horrorstruck, she burst into
tears and stammered distractedly:
'Dear God! Dear God! he's dead!'
I could hear everything but the sounds were muffled and
seemed to be coming from a great distance. My left eye was still
capable of perceiving a vague gleam, a milky sort of light in
which objects were melting into one another; but my right eye
was completely paralysed. My whole being was in a sort of
syncope, as ifI had been struck by lightning. I was reduced to a
stateofcompleteinertia; notonemuscleofmybodywouldobey
me. And in this state of numbness, all that remained was an
ability to think, sluggishly but still with complete clarity.
My poorMargueritehadfallenonherkneesbesidemybedand
she was sobbing in a heart-rending voice:
'Dear God! He's dead! He's dead!'
Could this strange state of torpor be death? This complete
physical impotence which still left my intelligence capable of
functioning? Was it my soul still lingering on inside my skull
before it took flight for ever? I had been subject to fits since
earliest childhood and had almost succumbed to bouts offever on
twooccasions, when still quiteyoung. Afterthat, thosearound me
had become used to my chronic bad health; and when I had had to
take to my bed in our room in the furnished hotel in the Rue
Dauphine*thedayafterourarrivalinParis,
I
myselfhaddissuaded
Margueritefrom sending for a doctor. I thought all 1 needed was a
little rest; I was merely tired out after the journey. Nevertheless. I
was in a dreadfully agitated state ofmind. We had come up from
ourhomeinthecountryatextremelyshortnotice, almostpenniless,
with barely enough money to see us through to mv first month's
salary in the government office job to which I had just been
appointed. Andnow
I
haddied from thisunexpectedattackoffever

188 Dead Men Tell No Tales
Couldthisreallybedeath?I'dalwaysimaginedthatit wouldbe
so much darker, so much quieter than this. Even as a lad I had
been afraid ofdying. Being a sickly child, people would stroke
my hand with pity in their eyes. I always had the feeling that I
would not live long, that I was going to an early grave. And the
idea of being buried filled me with a dread that I could never
come to terms with, despite the fact that it never left me, night or
day; and as I grew up, this idea became an obsession. Sometimes,
after thinking about it for days, I would imagine that I had suc-
ceeded in conquering my fear. All right, you'll dieand that will be
the end of you, everyone has to die some day, there could be
nothing more normal and proper. I would almost manage to be
cheerful about it: I could look death in the face without flinching!
And then, quitesuddenly, an icy shiverwould rundownmyspine
and I would become sick with fear, as ifsome giant hand were
holding me suspended overa precipice. My terror atthe thought
of being buried would flood back and all my fine reasoning
would be swept away. How often would I wake up in the night
with a sudden start, not knowing what unseen spirit had chilled
mewith its icy breath; and I would clasp my hands and stammer:
'Oh God, oh God, we all have to die!' My chest would contract
with fear and the inevitability of death seemed all the more
horriblein the confusion ofmy sudden awakening. And I was so
unnervedthatI hardly daredtogotosleepagain, forsleepwasso
akin to death. Suppose I were to go to sleep for ever, close my
eyes and never open them again?
I don't know ifothers suffer in this way but my life has been
wrecked by such fears. Death has always stood between me and
everything I loved. I can recall my happiest moments with
Marguerite, the first few months of our marriage when she
would be sleeping beside me and I would be thinking ofher and
making plans for our future; and my feeling ofjoy would
constantly be destroyed by the presentiment that we must
inevitably be torn apart; so all my hopes were poisoned and I
would be thrown into a deep depression. What was the point of
our present happiness if we were fated to be separated? My
morbidimagination gloatedovertheidea ofbereavement: which
ofus would go first? And the thought ofeither alternative filled
my eyes with tears as the picture of our broken lives unrolled
before me. Even during the happiest periods of my life such

Dead Men Tell No Tales 189
thoughts would overcome me and no one could understand my
sudden fits of sadness. When some good luck came my way,
people wereamazedto seemelookingso gloomy; it was because
the thought of my utter extinction had suddenly crossed my
mind. The terrible question: 'What's theuse?' kept ringingin my
earslikeadeath-knell. Butthegreatesttormentofallistohaveto
keep all suchthoughtstoyourself, asa shameful secret, asickness
that you can never admit to anyone. Often a husband and wife
lyinginbed, sidebyside, mustfeelthesamecoldshiverofhorror
run through them; yet neither ofthem will say a word, because
you don't talk about death any more than you utter certain
obscene expressions. You're so afraid ofdeath that you dare not
mention it; you keep it hidden in the same way as you hide your
genitals.
All these thoughts were running through my mind as
Marguerite continued desperately sobbing. I felt sorry not to be
able to comfort her by telling her that I was in no pain. Ifdeath
was merely this bodily weakness, then I had indeed been wrong
to be in such dread ofit. I had a smug feeling ofwell-being and
restfulness that cancelled all my worries. Above all, my memory
had become extremely active; my whole life was passing rapidly
before my eyes like a spectacle from which I felt completely
divorced. It was anodd and amusingexperience, asthough some
distant voice was telling the story ofmy life.
I was pursued by the memory ofa tiny patch ofcountryside
nearGuerande, on the road to Piriac. Theroad makes a bend and
a little pinewood sweeps down a rocky slope. I was seven at the
time. I used to go there with my father to a little, half-ruined
house to eat pancakes with Marguerite's parents, who were even
then barely managing to scrape a living working in thelocal salt-
marshes. Then I recalled my boarding-school at Nantes and its
dreary old walls where I grew up longing for the broad horizons
of Guerande with its salt-marshes stretching as far as the eye
could see at the foot ofthe town and the immense ocean spread
out underthesky. Now therecamea black holein my memories;
my father died and I got a job as a clerk in the hospital. My
monotonous life had begun; the only bright spots were my
Sunday visits to theold houseon the Piriac road. But there things
were going from bad to worse, for the salt-marshes were m dire
straitsand the whole region was being reduced toabject poverty.

190 Dead Men Tell No Tales
Marguerite was still only a child. She was fond ofme because I
pushed her round in a wheelbarrow. But later on, when I asked
her to marry me, I realized from her terrified look that she
thought me hideously ugly. Her parents gave their consent
straightaway, to get her off their hands. She was a dutiful
daughteranddidn'tprotest. Onceshehadgrownusedtotheidea
ofbecoming my wife, sheno longer seemed quiteso unhappy. I
rememberthatonour wedding day, it was raining cats and dogs
in Guerande and when we went home she had to strip down to
her petticoat because her dress was wet through.
Andthatwasalltheyouth Ieverhad. WelivedinGuerandefor
a while and then one day I came home and found her crying her
heart out. She was bored and wanted to move. After six months
ofpinching and scraping and working overtime, I managed to
saveenough and when a former friendofthefamily succeeded in
findingajobforme, I had taken herwith meto Paris, so thatthe
poorgirl wouldbelessmiserable. Inthetrainshewaslaughingall
thetime. Whennightcame, asthethirdclassseats weresohard, I
tookheronto mykneessothatshecouldsleepmorecomfortably.
But all that belonged to the past; and now I hadjust died and
my wife was kneeling, sobbing, on the tiled floor beside the
narrow bed ofour lodging-house room. The white spot that I
could see with my lefteye was growing dimmer but I could still
remember the room perfectly. The chest-of-drawers was on the
left, the fireplace on the right and on the mantelshelfabove there
stood a clock which was not working because it had lost its
pendulum;itshandspointedtosixminutespastten. Thewindow
looked out on to the Rue Dauphine. All the traffic of Paris
seemed to be going through that deep, gloomy street, making a
din that set the window-panes rattling.
We knew not a soul in Paris. As we had left in a hurry, I was
not expected to report for work until the following Monday.
Ever since I had been forced to take to my bed, I had had the
feeling ofbeing imprisoned in this room where we had landed
up, bewildered, after our journey, having spent some fifteen
hours in the train, and stunned by the bustle in the streets. My
wifehadlookedafterme, kindandcheerfulasalways, but
I
could
sensehowworriedshewas. Everysooften, shewouldgooverto
thewindowandglancedownintothestreet;andshewouldcome
back looking very pale, scared by the size of Paris where she

Dead Men Tell No Tales 191
knew not one brick or stone and which was creating such a
deafening roar. And whatwas shegoingtodoshouldIneverwake
up?Whatwouldbecomeofher, allaloneinthisimmensemetropo-
lis, completely ignorant, and without anyone to support her?
Marguerite had caught hold of one of my hands dangling
limply beside the bed and she was kissing it as she repeated:
'Oh Olivier, dosay something! Oh God, he's dead, he's dead!'
So death didn't mean completeannihilation, for I could hear her
and I was capable ofreasoning. It had only been this thought of
annihilationthathadterrifiedmeeversinceI wasachild. Icouldnot
imagine the total destruction of my whole being, my complete
extinction; and it would be for all eternity, century upon century
without ever coming to life again! Sometimes when I saw in my
newspaperamentionofadateinthenextcentury, ashudderwould
run throughme, forbythattime I shouldcertainlynotbestillalive
and that year in a future that I should never see, when I should no
longer exist, filled me with terror. Didn't the world exist only for
me and wouldn't it collapse when I abandoned it? It had always
been my hope to be able to meditate on life once I was dead; but
no doubt my present state wasn't death and I should surely be
wakingupsoon. Yes, inafewminutes, Ishouldleanforwardand
take Marguerite in my arms and dry her tears. What a joyful
reunion that would be! And how much more dearly we should
love each other then! I'd rest for a couple ofdays and then start
work. A new life would begin for us both, a happier, richerlife.
But there was no need to hurry; later on would do, for the
moment
I
wastooexhausted. Margueritewaswrongtobesosad
merelybecauseI didn'tfeel strongenoughatthemomentto turn
myhead on the pillow and smileup ather. In a veryshortwhile,
when she next said: 'He's dead! Oh God, he's dead!' I'd kiss her
and say to her very, very softly, so as not to scare her: 'No, my
darling, I wasjust asleep, you can see, I'm alive and I love you.'
HearingMarguerite'scries, someonepushedopenthedoorand
a voice exclaimed:
'What's the matter?. Has he had another attack?'
. .
I recognized the voice. It was Madame Gabin, an old woman
who lived next door on the same landing. When we had arrived.

192 Dead Men Tell No Tales
she had sympathized with our predicament and had been very
obliging. She had also immediately told us all about herself. Last
winter, a hard-hearted landlord had sold up all her furniture,
since when she had been living in the hotel with her daughter
Adele, alittlegirloften. Theybothearnedalivingbycuttingout
lampshades, which brought them in two francs a day at most.
'Heavens above, is he dead?' she asked, lowering her voice.
I realized that she was coming over to look at me. Then she
touched me and said in a pitying voice:
'Oh, you poor girl, you poor girl!'
By now Marguerite was exhausted and sobbing like a child.
Madame Gabin helped her to her feet and sat her down in a
rickety armchair beside the fireplace, trying to comfort her.
'Come on now, you mustn't take on like that. Just because
your husband has passed on, there's no point in thinking it's the
endoftheworld. Ofcourse, when Ilost myhubby, I feltjustlike
you, I couldn't swallow a mouthful for three wholedays. . . But
that didn't do any good, quite the reverse, it made me feel much
worse. Come on now, be sensible, for goodness' sake!'
Marguerite gradually calmed down; she was rapidly becoming
exhausted, althougheverynowandthenshewasshakenbysobs.
Meanwhile the gruffold woman was firmly taking charge.
'Now don't you worry, dear,' shekeptsaying. 'My littleDede
hasjust goneofftohand inour work and neighbours muststand
by each other, mustn't they?... Well, I can see you haven't
finished unpacking yet, but there is some linen in the chest-of-
drawers, isn't there?'
I heard heropening thechest-of-drawers. She musthavetaken
outatowelthatshespreadoverthebedsidetable.Nextshestruck
a match, which made me think that she was lighting one ofthe
tallow candles from the mantelshelf, since we hadn't any wax
tapers. I was able to follow herevery movementaboutthe room
and realize everything she was doing.
'Oh, the poor gentleman!' she murmured. 'What a good thing
it was that I heard you cry out, my dear.'
Then suddenly the vague gleam oflight that I could still see
with my lefteye disappeared. Madame Gabin hadjustclosed my
eyes. I hadn't felt her fingers touching my eyelids. When I
realizedwhathadhappened, aslowchillstartedcreepingovermy
body.

Dead Men Tell No Tales 193
Thedoornowopened againandherlittleten-year-olddaughter
Dede came in, piping in her shrill voice:
'Mummy, Mummy! Oh, I knew you were here. Here's the
money. We got three francs twenty for our lampshades. I took
them twenty dozen!'
'Sh, sh! Don't make a noise,' her mother said, vainly trying to
keep her quiet.
As the little girl still kept on talking, her mother must have
pointedtothebed, forshestoppedabruptlyand Icouldsensethat
she was retreating uneasily towards the door.
'Is the gentleman asleep?' she asked in a low voice.
'Yes. Now go away and play,' her mother replied.
Butthechildstayedwhereshewas. Shemusthavebeenstaring
at me with a scared look on her face, half realizing what had
happened. Suddenly she was seized with a sort ofpanic and ran
out ofthe room, knocking over a chair.
'Oh Mummy, he's dead!'
Silence fell. Marguerite was sitting exhausted in the armchair;
she had stopped crying. Madame Gabin continued to prowl
round the room. She was muttering between her teeth:
'You can't keep anything from children these days. Look at
her. AsGod'smywitness, I'mbringingherupproperly! Whenever
sherunsanerrandorI sendhertodeliverourlampshades,
I
work
out how long it'll take, to make sure she doesn't go gallivanting
about. But it's no use, she knows everything, she saw straight-
away what had happened, yet she's only ever seen one dead
person, her uncle Franqois, and she wasn't quite four at the
time. What can you do, children aren't children any more.'
. .
She broke offand changed the subject:
'I say, dear, we mustn't forget, there are a lot offormalities,
we've got to notify the Town Hall and make arrangements for
thefuneral. You'reinnofitstatetoseetoall thatand Idon'twant
to leave you on yourown. Whatdoyou say toletting megoand
see ifMonsieur Simoneau is at home?'
Marguerite made no reply. I felt as ifI was witnessing all this
from a great distance. Occasionally, it seemed to me that I was
floating round in the room like a flickering flame while a
stranger, a shapeless mass, was lying inert on the bed. All the
same,
1
shouldhavepreferredhernottoagreetoasking Monsieur
Simoneau to help. I'd caught sight of him three or four times

194 Dead Men Tell No Tales
during my short illness. He occupied a neighbouring room and
had been very obliging. Madame Gabin had told us that he was
merely passing through Paris, having come to collect some
outstanding debts on behalfofhis father, recently deceased after
leaving Paris to go and live in the country. Simoneau was a tall,
strapping young fellow, very good-looking. I had taken an
instantdislike tohim, perhaps becausehewassohealthy. On the
previousday, hehadonceagaincomeinand I hadfeltunhappyto
see him sitting close to Marguerite. She looked so pretty and
freshbesidehim! And hehadlookedatherveryattentively when
shesmiled athimandsaidhowkindhewastocomeandaskafter
me!
'Here's Monsieur Simoneau,' announced Madame Gabin in a
hushed voice as she returned.
Hepushedthedoorgentlyopenandassoonasshecaughtsight
ofhim, Marguerite burst into tears again. The presence ofthis
man, theonly friendshehadin Paris, hadawakenedhergrief. He
made no attempt to comfort her. I could not see him but in the
darknesswhichsurroundedme Icouldpicturehisfaceandclearly
imagine him looking perturbed and unhappy to see this poor
young woman in such despair. And yet she must have looked
most appealing with her fair hair all dishevelled, her pale face
and her dear little feverish, childlike hands!
'I'll be very glad to do anything you require,' Monsieur
Simoneau said gently. Til take care ofeverything ifyou like.'
She could only stammer a few words ofthanks in reply. But
Madame Gabin went out with the young man and I heard her
mention the word 'money' as she passed close by my bed.
Funerals cost a lot of money and she was afraid that the poor
young woman was penniless; anyway, they could enquire from
her. Simoneau cut the old woman short: he didn't want
Margueritetobebothered; hewould goto theTown Hall and he
would see to the arrangements for the funeral.
When silence again fell, I wondered to myself how much
longer this nightmare would last. I must be alivebecause I could
understandtheslightestthings that weretaking placearound me.
I was alsobeginning to realizeexactly thesortofstateI wasin: it
mustbeasortofcatalepsy, ofwhich I hadheard. Evenasa child,
at the time ofmy worst nervous troubles, I had suffered similar
attacks, lasting several hours. It was obviously one ofthese that

Dead Men Tell No Tales 195
had reduced me to this state ofcomplete immobility, similar to
death, which was misleading everyone round me. But my heart
would start beating properly again, my blood would start
circulating and my muscles would relax. I should wake up and
comfort Marguerite. So, with these arguments running through
my mind, I urged myselfto be patient.
Hours went by. Madame Gabin had fetched her lunch but
Marguerite was refusing to eat anything. Through the open
window there came the noise from the Rue Dauphine below. A
little clink ofthe copper candlestick against the marbletop ofthe
bedside table suggested to me that they were replacing the old
candle. At last Simoneau returned.
'Well?' the old woman asked him in a low voice.
'Everything's arranged,' he replied. 'The funeral will set off
from here at eleven o'clock tomorrow morning. You needn't
worryaboutanything and don'ttalkaboutall thisin frontofthat
poor girl.'
Madame Gabin now pointed out that the doctor still had not
come to certify death.
Simoneau wentoverandsatdownbesideMarguerite, tryingat
first to comfort her, but he soon fell silent. 'The funeral will set
offfromhereateleveno'clocktomorrowmorning. Thesewords
'
were ringing in my ears like a death-knell. And there would be
thedoctor to certify death, in Madame Gabin's words! Surely he
would sec straightaway that I was merely unconscious? I started
waiting for his arrival with frantic impatience.
Meanwhile the day dragged on. To avoid wasting her time,
MadameGabin had fetched herlampshadesandhadevenasked if
Dede couldjoin her, saying that she didn't like leaving children
too long on their own.
'Comeon in,' she whispered to thelittle girl assheushered her
into the room. 'And remember, you must behave yourselfand
not look over there or else there'll be trouble.'
She was forbidding her daughter to look at me; it seemed the
right thing to do. However, Dede must certainly have been
looking furtively in my direction now and again, because 1 heard
her mother slapping her arm and saying crosslv
i don't get on with vour work, I'll send von out ofthe
room and tonight that gentleman will comealong when vou'rein
bed and pull your feet!'

196 Dead Men Tell No Tales
Both mother and daughter had sat down at our table and I
could distinctly hear the sound oftheir scissors cutting out the
lampshades; no doubt this was quite a difficult and complicated
operation, fortheywerenotgettingonveryfast. Tofightbackmy
growing anxiety, I started counting the lampshades one by one.
The only sound to be heard in the room was the click of
scissors. Overcome by fatigue, Marguerite must have dozed off.
TwiceSimoneau gottohisfeetand
I
wastorturedbythethought
that he was taking advantage of the fact that Marguerite was
asleep to press his lips on her hair and kiss it. I didn't know him
but I was sure that he loved my wife. Then suddenly little Dede
laughed. It was the last straw.
'What are you laughing at, you silly girl?' her mother asked
her. 'I'll send you out on to the landing if you're not careful.
Well, what are you laughing at?'
The little girl stammered that she hadn't been laughing but
coughing. But I imagined that she must have seen Simoneau
bending over Marguerite and that she found that funny.
The lamp had already been lit; there was a knock at the door.
'That'll be the doctor,' the old woman said.
It was indeed the doctor. He did not even bother to apologize
for being so late. No doubt he had had to climb many flights of
stairsin thecourseoftheday. Thelight was verydim. Heasked:
'Is this where the body is?'
'Yes, doctor,' replied Simoneau.
Margueritestoodup, trembling. MadameGabinhadsentDede
out on to the landing, because a child has no business seeing that
sort of thing, and she was trying to lead my wife over to the
window to spare her the painful spectacle.
Meanwhile, the doctor had quickly made his way towards the
bed. I hadthefeelingthathewastired, impatientandinnomoodto
linger.
Didhetakeholdofmyhand? Didheplacehisownhandon
myheart?
I
can'tsayonewayortheother; butitseemedtomethat
hehad, quiteunconcernedly, beencontentmerelytobendoverme.
'Shall I bring the lamp over so that you can see better?'
Simoneau offered obligingly.
'No, there's no need,' the doctor replied calmly.
No need? This man, who was holding my life in his hands,
thoughttherewasnoneedtomakeathoroughexamination! And
yet I wasn't dead!

Dead Men Tell No Tales 197
'At what time did he die?' he went on.
'At six o'clock this morning,' replied Simoneau.
A furious protest surged up inside me, despite the terrible
weight that was holding me down. Oh the horror ofnot being
able to say a word or stir a single limb!
The doctor added:
'Thissultry weatherisdreadful. There'snothing soexhausting
as this early spring weather.'
And he moved away from the bed and, with him, all my
chances ofsurvival. Shouts and sobs and abuse were struggling
convulsively for utterance, stifled for lack of breath. Ah, that
miserable doctor, so blinkered in his professional routine that he
had becomenothing morethana robot who tookpeople's deaths
as a mere formality! What a complete idiot the man must be! All
his pretended medical science was a sham, since he couldn't
distinguish between a dead man and a liveone. And now he was
leaving me and going away!
'Good night, doctor,' Simoneau said.
There was silence. The doctor must have been bowing to
Marguerite who had come back into the room, while Madame
Gabin was closing the window. Then he left and I heard his
footsteps going downstairs.
Sothiswastheend.
I
wasdoomed: my lasthopewasvanishing
with those footsteps. IfI didn't wake up before eleven o'clock
tomorrow, I'dbeburiedalive. Andthisthoughtwassoterrifying
thatI lostconsciousnessofeverythingaroundme: it wasaswoon
as deep as death itself. The last sound I heard was the click of
Madame Gabin's and Dede's scissors. The funeral vigil was
beginning. Nobody spoke. Marguerite had refused to go and
sleep in her neighbour's room and was reclining in the armchair,
pale and beautiful, with herclosed lids still wet with tears, while
Simoneau satoppositeher, silently watching herin thedarkness.
I cannotbegin to describeall that I went through the following
morning. It was an anguish that has remained with me like some
appalling dream during which experienced such confused and
I
peculiar feelings that it would be difficult for QIC to detail them
here. And what made mv suffering even more intense was that I

198 Dead Men Tell No Tales
wasstillhopingagainsthopethat
I
wouldsuddenlywakeup. But
as the time for the funeral approached, my feeling ofdread grew
more and more oppressive.
It was not until the following morning that I once again
becameawareofthepeopleandobjectssurroundingme. As
I
was
dozing, the clatter of a window-catch aroused me. It was
MadameGabin lettingin somefresh air. Itmusthavebeen about
seveno'clock, forIcouldhearthecriesofstreettraders, thehigh-
pitched voice ofa little girl selling chickweed and a hoarse voice
offeringcarrots forsale. At firstthisnoisy awakeningoftheParis
streets helped to calm me: it seemed impossible that they would
be putting me underground amidst all this activity; and I
remembered something else which further reassured me: I re-
called that I had seen a similar case to mine when I had been
employed in the hospital in Guerande. Like me, a man had
remained asleep for twenty-eight hours, a sleep so deep, in fact,
that the doctors were hesitating whether they should not declare
him dead; and then he had sat up and been able to get out ofbed
straightaway. I myselfhad already been sleeping for twenty-five
hours. IfI wokeupataboutteno'clock, therewouldstillbetime.
I tried to work out who was in the room and what they were
doing. Young Dede must have been playing on the landing,
because the door was open and I could hear a child laughing
outside. Simoneau hadno doubtleft: I could detectnosignofhis
presence. Only MadameGabin couldbeheard shuffling round in
her slippers. Finally someone spoke:
'Now dear,' theold woman said, 'you'reto drink up whileit's
still hot, it'll do you good.'
Shewasaddressing Margueriteandthegentledripofafilteron
the mantelpiece told me that she was making coffee.
'I must say that I needed that,' she went on. 'Staying up all
night'sbadforyouat mytimeoflife. And it'ssosadinthenight,
inaplacewheresomethingdreadful'shappened.
. .
Nowdohave
some coffee, dear,just a drop.'
And she forced Marguerite to take a cup.
'You see? It's warm, it cheers you up. You need to get
your strength back for what you've got to go through today.
Now ifyou were really sensible, you'd go to my room and wait
there.'
'No, I want to stay here,' Marguerite replied firmly.

Dead Men Tell No Tales 199
This was the first time I had heard hervoice sincethe previous
day and I was deeply moved. It was quite changed, broken with
emotion. Oh my darling Marguerite, I could feel herclosebeside
me, offering me my last consolation, I knew that her eyes never
left my face, and that she was crying broken-heartedly.
But the minutes were ticking by and I heard a sound at the
door which I could not at first understand. It was as if a
piece offurniture was bumping against the wall ofthe narrow
staircase. Then, when I heard Marguerite starting to cry again,
I realized what was happening: they were bringing up my
coffin.
'You're too early,' said Madame Gabin, crossly. 'Put it down
behind the bed.'
What was the time, then? Possibly nine o'clock. So the coffin
hadalreadyarrived. Icouldseeitdimlythroughmyblurredeyes,
a brand-new coffin made of roughly planed boards. Oh God!
Was this the end? Was I going to be carried out in this wooden
box which they'd put down at the head ofmy bed?
But one final and pleasant surprise was still in store for me:
despiteher grief, Margueriteinsisted on getting me ready herself
for my lastjourney. With thehelpoftheoldwoman, shedressed
me with all the tenderness ofa wife and sister and as she slipped
each garmentover my body, I could feel heragain holding mein
herarms. Overcomebyemotion, shekeptstopping, hugging me
tightly and bathing my face in tears. How I longed to return her
caresses and cry out: 'I'm alive!' but I continued to lie there, an
inert mass offlesh.
'I shouldn't do that, it's a waste,' the old woman kept saying.
'No, I want to dress him in his best,' Marguerite replied
brokenly.
I realized that she was dressing me as iffor our wedding. I had
kept those clothes, intending to wear them only on very special
Now
occasions. she sank back exhausted into the armchair.
Suddenly
I
heard Simoneau'svoice. Nodoubthehadjustconic
into the room.
'They're downstairs,' he said quietly.
'About time too," replied Madame Gabin, lowering her voice
as well. 'Tell them to come up, we mustn't linger.'
'I'm afraid ofthe effect on his poor wife.1
The old woman seemed to be thinking I hen she laid:

200 Dead Men Tell No Tales
'Look, Monsieur Simoneau, you make her go into my room.
She mustn't stay here. It'll be a kindness to her. . . Meanwhile,
we can get everything done here in ajiffy.'
Her words went straight to my heart and you can imagine the
agonies I went through during the ensuing struggle. Simoneau
went up to Marguerite and begged her not to stay in the room.
'For pity's sake,' he said imploringly, 'please come with me,
there's no point in exposing yourselfto unnecessary suffering.'
'No, I won't,' my wife kept saying. 'I'm going to stay here
until the end. Don't forget that he's all I've got in the world and
when he's gone, I shall be all alone.'
Whilethis was happening, MadameGabinwasstanding beside
the bed, muttering to the young man:
'Go and pick her up and take her away in your arms.'
Was Simoneau going to do as she suggested and carry her off
like that? All ofa sudden she cried out. I made a frantic effort to
getto my feetbutall mystrengthhaddeserted me. So Ilaythere,
so paralysed that I couldn't even open my eye-lids to see what
was taking place under my very nose. The struggle continued as
my wife clung to the furniture, crying:
'Letmego, Monsieur, ohpleaselet mego, I wanttostayhere!'
He must have been holding her tightly, for she started
whimpering like a child. He carried her offprotesting and as her
sobs died away, I could see the two ofthem in my mind's eye;
strong and powerful as he was, he was lifting her offthe ground
and holding her close against his chest, while she had her arms
round his neck, sobbing in a heartrending fashion but eventually
giving up the struggle and letting him take her away where he
wanted.
'Heavens above! That wasn't easy,' murmured Madame
Gabin. 'Well, now we've cleared the stage, let's get on with the
job.'
In myjealousrage, Simoneau'sactionincarryingheroffinthis
way seemed like a criminal abduction. I hadn't been able to see
Marguerite since the day before, but I had been able to hear her
andnow
I
couldn'tevendothat. She'dbeen takenaway fromme
even before I was under the ground. And he was alone with her
behind the partition, consoling her, perhaps even kissing her.
The door opened again and there was the sound of heavy
footsteps in the room.

Dead Men Tell No Tales 201
'Let's be quick before she comes back,' Madame Gabin was
saying.
She was addressing some unknown persons whose only reply
was to grunt.
'I'm not a relative, you know, just a neighbour. There's
nothinginitfor me.
. .
I'mseeingtoallthisoutofsheerkindness
ofheart. And it's not a cheerfuljob, either. I spent the night in
this room andit wasn'tall that warm atabout fouro'clockinthe
morning, I can tell you. Well, I've always been stupid, I'm too
kind to people.'
At this point they pulled the coffin into the room. I realized
what was happening and that I was doomed because I was not
going to be able to wake up. My mind became confused; a black
fog was swirling round inside my head. I was so overcome by
exhaustion that it was almost a reliefto realize that there was no
further hope for me.
'They haven't been mean with their wood,' remarked one
undertaker in a hoarse voice. 'It's too long.'
'Ah well, he'll be more comfortable,' replied another voice
jokingly.
Iwasn'taheavyman, whichpleasedthem, sincetherewerethree
flights ofstairs to go down.Just as they were catching hold ofmy
shoulders and feet, Madame Gabin suddenly exclaimed, crossly:
'You naughty little girl! You're always poking your nose in
where you shouldn't! I'll teach you to peep round the corner!'
It was Dedepushing heruntidy mop ofhairround thedoorto
havealookatthemanbeingputintohiswooden box. Therewas
the sound oftwo loud slaps, followed by a burst oftears; and
when her mother came back into the room, she talked about her
daughter while the men were putting me into the coffin:
'She's ten years old and she's not a bad little girl but she's far
too nosey. I don't spank her a lot but she's got to learn to do as
she's told.'
'Oh, all little girls are like that, you know,' said one of the
men. 'When there's a dead person in thehouse, they always keep
hanging around.'
I was lying comfortably stretched out and but for my left arm.
which was pressing against one of the sides, I could have
imagined myselfstill on thebed. As they had pointed out, I fitted
in very nicely, because I was so short.

202 Dead Men Tell No Tales
'Wait a second!' exclaimed Madame Gabin. 'I promised his
wife to put a pillow under his head.'
But the undertakers were in a hurry and pushed the pillow
under very roughly. One ofthem was swearing as he looked for
his hammer. They hac left it downstairs and had to go down to
fetchit. Thelidwas placedonandallofasuddenmywholebody
wasjarred as the first nail was driven in with two blows ofthe
hammer. So this really was theend; my lifewas finished.
. .
And
quicklythenails weredrivenhomewithsharp, repeatedblowsof
the hammer; they worked skilfully and unconcernedly, like men
nailing the lid on a box of fruit. Henceforth, every sound
reaching me was muffled and long drawn-out, with a strange
echo, as ifthe deal coffin had turned into a big sounding-box.
Thelastwords I heard in thebedroomin theRueDauphinewere
spoken by Madame Gabin:
'Go down gently and be careful ofthe second-floor banister,
it's loose.'
They were carrying me away. I felt as though I was being
tossed in a stormy sea; but from this moment onwards, my
memories are very vague. However, I do recall that my only
concern, a sort ofinstinctive and quite absurd one, was to try to
memorize the route to the cemetery. I didn't know a single Paris
street or the exact location ofthe principal cemeteries that I had
occasionally heard mentioned, but this didn't prevent me from
concentratingall my remainingthoughtsonworkingoutwhether
wewereturning leftorright. Thehearse was bumping meabout
overthepavingstones. All aroundtherewastherumbleoftraffic
and thesoundoffootstepsofpassers-bywhichcreatedaconfused
murmur, magnified by the sounding-board effect ofthe coffin.
At first, I was able to follow the route fairly clearly. Then we
stopped and I was moved; I realized that we had reached the
church. But as soon as the hearse set offagain, I lost all sense of
direction. A peal ofbellsinformed methatwewerepassing close
to a church, while a gentler, more continuous rumble made me
think that we were going along beside an esplanade. I felt like a
condemned man being led to execution, awaiting the final blow
which never came.
We stopped again and I was lifted out ofthe hearse. And now
everythinghappenedveryquickly. Thesoundshad all ceasedand
I could sense that I was in a deserted spot, under some trees and

Dead Men Tell No Tales 203
the sweep of the sky. No doubt there were some mourners,
people from the hotel, Simoneau and a few others, because I
could hear whispering. There was some chanting and a priest
mumbled some Latin. Then, for a couple ofminutes, there was
nothing to be heard but the sound offootsteps. Suddenly, I felt
myselfsinking and ropes were vibrating against the sides ofthe
coffin like a bow playing on a cracked double-bass. This was the
end. Astaggeringblow, liketheburstingofashell, explodedjust
totheleftofmyhead; asecondblowexplodedat my feet;athird,
evenstronger, struckovermystomach. Thislastonewassoloud
that I thought it had split the coffin in two. And then I lost
consciousness.
How long I remained in that state I find it impossible to say.
For a person completely unconscious, a second is the same as
eternity. I no longer existed. Then, gradually, a confused feeling
ofbeingaliverevived.
I
wasstillinasortofsleepbutI hadstarted
dreaming; againsttheimpenetrable darknessblocking my future,
a nightmare was taking shape. It was a weird figment of my
imagination and one which had often tormented me in the past
when, with my horrible propensity for inventing dire catas-
trophes, I wouldlieawake, open-eyed, savouringthemasochistic
pleasure ofdreaming up disasters.
Thus I would imagine that my wife was expecting me some-
where, I think in Guerande, and that I was on my way by train.
Justas thetrain was going through a tunnel, there wasa frightful
rumbling sound, likea clapofthunder: it was a double landslide.
The train was completely undamaged and every compartment
intact; buttheroofofthetunnel had collapsedatbothendsandso
we found ourselves trapped in the middle of a mountain,
immured by the rockfall. We were condemned to a horrible,
lingering death, with no hope ofhelp, for it would take a month
to unblock the tunnel, using powerful equipment and extreme
care. We were imprisonedinasortofcellarwithoutanyexit. The
death ofevery passenger was merely a matter oftime.
As I have said, mv imagination was frequently exercised by
such horrible situations. I would think up all sorts ofvariants I
peopled my drama with a full castofmen, women andchildren, a

204 Dead Men Tell No Tales
hundred or so, and this crowd ofpeople gave me scope for an
endless variety ofepisodes. There was a certain amount offood
on the train but this supply was quickly exhausted and without
quiteresortingtocannibalism, thestarvingpassengersfoughtlike
tigersover the few remaining scraps ofbread. Anold man, athis
last gasp, was brutally punched and driven away, a mother
foughtlikeatigress toholdontoa few mouthfulsoffoodforher
child. In my own compartment, two young newly-weds had
givenuphopeand lay motionless and dyingineachother'sarms.
Thetrackitselfwasclearandpassengerswereabletoclimbdown
and prowl along the train like wild beasts in search oftheir prey.
Class distinctions had vanished; one very rich man, a senior
government official it was whispered, was crying on a work-
man's shoulderand addressing him likea brother. Thelights had
soon failed and the furnace ofthe locomotive had finally gone
out. As we moved from carriage tocarriage, wegroped our way
along the wheels to avoid bumping into each other until we
reached the engine, which we could recognize from its cold
piston-rod and its bulging sides, a slumbering, impotent giant
lying motionless in the darkness. You could imagine no more
frightening spectacle than this train totally immured under-
ground like someone buried alive, with all its passengers dying
one by one.
I used to revel in every tiny horrible detail. The darkness was
pierced by screams and suddenly a man, whom I hadn'tseen and
hadn't realized was sitting beside me, slumped down against my
shoulder. But it was the cold and lack ofair which was really
affecting me now. Never had I felt so cold; a mantle ofsnow
seemed to be settling on my shoulders, my head was reeling in
the clammy air and at the same time I felt that I was being stifled
as theroofofrockseemed tobecollapsing and pressingdownon
to my chest. The whole mass ofthe mountain was crushing me.
But a cry of relief rang out. For some time we had been
imagining thatwecouldheardull thudsin thedistanceandhopes
were beginning to rise that they had started to dig us out. But
now reliefwas at hand from another quarter; one ofournumber
hadjust discovered an air-shaft in the tunnel and we all ran over
tolook atit. A bluepatch could beseen atthetop, nolargerthan
a blob ofsealing wax; but this tiny patch ofblue filled us with
joy. We stood craning outnecks endeavouring to snatch a breath

.
Dead Men Tell No Tales 205
of fresh air. We could clearly distinguish some black dots
frantically working; they must surely be workmen setting up a
winchtohaulustosafety. Acryburstfromourthroats. Wewere
saved! We were saved! Everyone was shouting and waving their
arms towards this tiny blue patch.
It was the sound ofthese shouts which woke me up. Where
was I? Was I still in the tunnel? I was lying stretched out and I
could feel my body enclosed between walls on both sides. I tried
to sit upbut myhead struck violently againstsomehardobject. I
must be surrounded by rock on all sides. And the blue patch had
disappeared; thesky was nolongervisible, even inthedistance. I
was still suffocating and my teeth were chattering as a shiver ran
through my whole body.
Suddenly everything came back to me. My hair bristled with
horror and an icy tremor shook me from head to foot as the
dreadful truth flooded into my brain. Had I finally been freed
from the paralysis that had held me stiffand corpselike in its grip
for so long? Yes, I could move and I ran my trembling hands
along the sides of the coffin. There remained one final test: I
opened my mouth and tried to speak, instinctively calling
Marguerite's name. But my call turned into a scream and my
voice echoed round the coffin in a terrifying, earsplitting shriek.
Oh dearGod! Could itbetrue? I could moveand I could call out
thatI wasalive; buttherewasnoonetohearme, I wasentombed
under the ground.
.
I made one final effort to control myselfand gather my wits
aboutme. Wasn'ttheresomewayofescape?Istartedtorelive my
dream; my brain was still reeling and in my imagination the air-
shaft and the patch ofblue sky were mingling with the reality of
the hole in which I was suffocating. With wild, staring eyes I
probedthedarkness. Perhaps I mightbeabletoseeaslit, a hole, a
sliveroflight? But in the gloom all around me, 1 could seconly a
streamoftwinklinglightsandspecksofredwhichspreadoutand
vanished, leaving a black, bottomless abyss. Then my brain
cleared and I thrust thestupid nightmare from my mind. IfI was
to save myself, I should need all my wits.
Firstofall, my greatestdangerseemed tobetheever-increasing
stuffiness which was threatening tosuffocate me. Nodoubt I had
been able to do without air for so long because my physical
functions had been paralysed; but now that my heart had started

206 Dead Men Tell No Tales
beatingandmylungs werebreathingagain, ifIdidn'tfreemyself
as quickly as possible, I should be asphyxiated. I was also
suffering from the cold and I was afraid ofbecoming numb and
dying, like people who topple over into a snowdrift and never
climb out.
While I kept on reminding myself that I must remain quite
calm, I could feel waves of panic sweeping over me. So in an
effort to pull myselftogether, I tried to recall everything I knew
about methods ofburial. I must have been buried in a five-year
concession and thateffectively put paid to oneofmyhopes; for I
had noticed that as eachhole was filled up in thepaupers' graves,
theend ofthe most recent coffin was leftexposed. Hadthatbeen
thecase, I shouldonlyhaveneededtobreakthroughoneplankto
escape, whereas ifI was in a hole that had been filled up to the
top, there was a tremendous weight ofearth above me and this
wouldproveaformidableobstacle. Hadn't Ireadsomewherethat
in Paris graves were dug out to a depth ofsix feet? How could I
get through such an enormous thickness ofearth? Even should I
beabletosplitthelidofmy coffinopen, wouldn'ttheearthcome
pouring in like fine sand and fill my nose and mouth so that I
would die a second, horrible death, drowned in slime?
However, I carefully explored the space all around me. The
coffin wasalargeoneandIhadnodifficultyin movingmyarms.
As far as I could discover, there were no gaps in the lid and
though the left and right sides ofthe coffin were only roughly
planed, they weretoughandsolid. I bentmy armbackacrossmy
chest and felt beyond my head. There, in the end plank, I
discovered a knot that gavea little when I pressed against it. So I
laboriously rocked it until at last it fell out. Then, inserting my
finger, I felt the earth beyond; it was a thick, wet clay. But that
got me no further. I even regretted having removed the knot, as
the slime might be able to seep though the hole. I decided to try
anotherexperiment and tapped all round the coffin toseeifthere
mightperhapsbeahollowspaceononesideortheother. Butthe
sound was thesame wherever I tapped. However, when I gently
knocked the end of the coffin, the sound seemed to me to be
higher pitched; but this could have been caused by the shape or
method ofconstruction.
Then, with my arms held above my chest, I began gently
pushingwith my fists. Theliddidnot moveaninch. Next Itried

Dead Men Tell No Tales 207
bracing myselfon my back and feet and pushing with my knees.
Therewasnotevenacreak. Finally, exerting my fullstrengthand
usingevery musclein my body, I pushed until mybones cracked
and then lashed out until I was bruised all over. It was then that I
lost my head.
Until now I'd been determined to remain clear-headed and
control the bursts ofimpotent rage which threatened to sweep
over me like the fumes in a drunkard's head. Above all, I had
been resisting the temptation to shout because I realized that ifI
started shouting, I should be lost. And now, all at once, I began
shoutingandscreaming.
I
hadreachedthelimitsofmyendurance;
scream upon scream burst from my lips until I could scream no
more. I wascallingforhelpinavoicethatIcouldnotrecognizeas
myown, becoming more hysterical with every shout I uttered. I
was screaming that I didn't want to die, while at the same time I
was scratching at the boards with my nails and writhing con-
vulsively like a trapped wolf.
Idon'tknowhowlongthisoutburstofhysterialastedbutIcan
still feel those hard, unyielding wooden planks which I was
vainly trying to force my way through and still hearmy screams
and sobs reverberating inside them. A last flicker ofreason was
urging me to control myselfbut I was powerless to do so.
In the end I lapsed into a state ofnervous exhaustion. Barely
conscious, I lay painfully waiting to die. The coffin was as solid
as a rock: I should never manage to break it open; and the
certainty ofthis left me completely sapped ofenergy and ofthe
courage to make any further attempt. And now another ordeal
was added to the cold and lack ofair: the pangs ofhunger which
soonbecameunbearable. Throughtheknot-hole, I triedtogather
a few pinches of earth which I then swallowed: they merely
increased my sufferings. I took hold ofmy arm in my clenched
teeth and sucked at my skin, tempted to bite into my flesh and
drink my blood, but I could not quite bring myselfto do it.
By now, I was longing to die. Till then I had always had a
horror at the thought ofannihilation and now I had reached the
stage of hoping for it, even praying for it. To be completely
wiped out! And it would be impossible for it to be too complete.
How childish I'd been to be afraid ofthat sleep without dreams.
that black stillness that would last tor ever! Death would be a
happy release, because it would, in one tell swoop, obliterate all

208 Dead Men Tell No Tales
consciousnessforalleternity. Tobeabletobecomelikeastone, a
handful ofdust, simply to cease to be!
Yet my groping hands were still continuing automatically to
feel aroundtheinsideofmy coffin. Suddenly, something pricked
my left thumb and the slight pain roused me from my torpor.
What could it be? I felt again and realized thatit was anail which
the undertakers had hammered in askew without noticing, and
which had missed the edge ofthe coffin. It was a very long nail
with a very sharp point. The head ofthe nail was in the lid but I
could feel that it was loose. Now I had only one thought in my
mind: I must get that nail. Holding my right hand above my
waist, I began to rock thenail to and fro. It was noeasy task, for
the nail was not very loose. I had to change hands frequently,
because my other hand was awkwardly placed and quickly
becametired. While I wasworking desperately at thenail, a plan
was taking shape in my head whereby it could prove to be my
salvation. I must get it out, at all costs. But could I do it in the
shorttimelefttome?
I
wasweakfromhungerandforcedtostop,
because my head was reeling and my hands had lost their
strength. My mind was in a whirl. I had already sucked up the
drops ofblood oozing from my pricked thumb, now I bit hard
into my arm and drank my blood. Spurred on by thepain and
. .
invigorated by the taste ofthis warm, salty wine moistening my
lips, I set to work again with both hands. At last I managed to
free the nail and pull it inside the coffin.
It was at this moment that I realized that I was going to
succeed. My plan was simple. I jabbed the point ofthe nail into
the lid ofthe coffin and dragged it in a straight line as far as I
could; and I kept on moving the nail backwards and forwards to
score as deep a groove as possible. My hands became stiffand
sore but with the force ofdespair I kept doggedly on. When I
judged that thegroove was deep enough, I turnedoveron to my
front and bracing myselfon elbows and knees, I pushed up with
my back. I heard the lid creak but it refused to split. The groove
was obviously not deep enough, so I turned on to my back and
started scraping away with the nail once more. It was laborious
work. After a while I turned over again and made another
attempt; and this time the lid split from top to bottom . . .
Well, I was not yet safe but hope was beginning to stir. I
stopped pushing and lay completely still for fear that the soil

Dead Men Tell No Tales 209
mightslidedownandbury me.
I
plannedtousethelidasasortof
shield whilst I tried to hollow out a shaft in the earth. Unfortu-
nately this proveddifficultintheextreme, fortheheavy lumpsof
clay kept slipping down and pressing on the lid, making it
impossibleformetomove it. I wouldneverreach thesurface, for
theselumpswerealreadyweighingdownsostronglyonmyback
that my face was being thrust against the bottom ofthe coffin.
Just as I was beginning to panic, I thought, as I stretched out,
preparatory to bracing myself, that I could feel the end ofthe
coffin giving way under my pressure. I kicked hard against it
with my heels, thinking there might be a hollow space there,
where they were in the process ofdigging a grave.
Suddenly
I
feltthatmy feetwerefree. My intuitionhadproved
correct: anopengravehadrecentlybeendugoutthereandallthat
I now had to do was to break through a narrow bank ofearth. I
slid out into the open. Thank God! I was saved!
For a moment I lay on my back looking up at the sky. It was
night time and the stars were shining in the dark, velvety, blue
sky. The wind was rising, bringing warm gusts ofspring air and
a scent oftrees. Thank God! I was saved, I could breathe, I was
warm and I was weeping tears ofjoy. I clasped my hands
together and in a broken voice offered a prayer of thanks to
heaven. How wonderful it was to be alive!
My hrst thought was to make my way to the caretaker ofthe
cemeteryandgethimtoarrangeformetobetakenhome. Buton
secondthoughts, still confusedin my mind, 1 hesitated. Wouldn't
everybody be frightened when they saw me? And why bein such
a hurry, now that everything was going to be all right? Apart
from the small wound in my left arm where I had bitten myself,
there was nothing wrong with me and indeed the slight fever
brought on by this wound was stimulating me and giving me an
unexpected feeling ofenergy. I would certainly be able to walk
without help.
So I decided to take my time, for my mind was still in
something ot .1 muddle. In the grave next to mine. I had noticed
LVcdiggen' spades and the thought cameto me that I ought
to make good the damage I had done and till up the hole in Mich a

210 Dead Men Tell No Tales
waythatnobodywouldnoticemy resurrection. Atthetime I had
no clear idea in mind, I merely felt that it was pointless to
publicize what had happened; in fact, I felt rather ashamed of
being still alive when everyone thought I was dead. It took me
less than halfan hour to cover up all traces ofmy escape.
I jumped outofthe grave. Whata wonderfulnightitwas! The
cemetery was plunged in silence and the dark trees were casting
still shadows on the white gravestones. As I was trying to find
mysenseofdirection,*I sawthatonehalfoftheskywasglowing
as ifon fire. That must be Paris and I set offin that direction,
keeping in the shadow oftheoverhanging branches ofan avenue
oftrees. But I had barely gone fifty yards before I was forced to
stopandsitdown, outofbreath, onastonebench. Onlythendid
I
examinemyselfclosely:
I
wascompletelydressed, evendownto
my shoes; the only thing missing was a hat. How I blessed
Marguerite's sense ofpiety in having me properly clothed! And
the sudden memory of Marguerite brought me to my feet: I
wanted to see her.
At the end ofthe avenue, my way was blocked by a wall. I
clambered upon to a gravestoneand, hanging fromthecoping, I
let myselfdroponthefarside. I fell heavily. Picking myselfup, I
followed for a few minutes a wide, deserted streetthat ranbeside
the cemetery. I had not the slightest idea where I was but I kept
saying to myselfdeterminedly that I would find my way back
into Paris and then certainly be able to get to the Rue Dauphine.
Somepeoplewentbybut, seizedbyasuddenfeelingofdistrust,
I
didn't speak to them; I didn't feel that I wanted to confide in
anyone at the moment. I realizenow that I was already suffering
fromahighfeverandbecomingdelirious. Intheend,justasI was
coming out into a main street, I was overcome by dizziness and
fell heavily on the pavement.
Herethereisagapin my life. I remainedunconscious forthree
weeks. When Ifinally cameto, I was lyinginastrangebedroom.
I was being looked after by a man who merely told me that he
had picked me up one morning in the Boulevard Montparnasse
and taken me back to his house. He was a retired doctor. When I
thanked him, he replied briefly that my case had intrigued him
andhehadwantedtoobserveme. Moreover, duringthefirstfew
weeks ofmy convalescence, he would not allow me to ask any
questions. Nor, later on, did he ask me any. I stayed in bed for

Dead Men Tell No Tales 211
anotherweek; my mind wasstill unclearand I didnoteven tryto
go back overall that had happened, for I found it both tiring and
saddening. I feltafraidandinnomoodtotalk. I'dgoandseehow
things were once I was fit enough to leave the house. Perhaps,
during my delirium, I might have blurted out a name but the
doctornever referred to anything that I mighthavesaid. He was
as discreet as he was kind.
Meanwhile, summer had come and one morning in June I
received permission, at last, to go for a short walk. It was a
superb day, with a cheerful sun making the old streets ofParis
lookyoungagain.
I
wentslowlyalong, askingthewaytotheRue
Dauphine from passers-by at every street-crossing. At last, I
reached my goal but I had difficulty in recognizing the furnished
hotel in which we had stayed. I was like a scared child. If I
showed myselfto Marguerite too unexpectedly, I was afraid she
wouldbeovercomebyshock. Perhapsthebestthingwouldbeto
warn old Madame Gabin first ofall? But I didn't like the idea of
anyone coming between Marguerite and me. . . I couldn't make
up my mind; deep down inside me, I felt a great emptiness as if,
long ago, I had sacrificed myself.
The house looked golden in the sunshine. I had recognized it
byitscheap restauranton theground floorfrom which youcould
havemealssentuptoyourroom. I lookeduptothethirdfloor, at
theend windowon theleft. It was wideopen. Suddenly a young
woman, with her hair undone and her shift slipping off her
shoulder, cametothewindowandrestedherelbowsonthesillto
look out; she was immediately followed by a young man who
bentoverand kissed the back ofherneck. It wasnot Marguerite.
I felt no surprise; it seemed to me as ifit was all part ofa dream,
like so many other things that I was about to experience.
For a second, I stood hesitating in the street, thinking I might
go up and question this happy young couple oflovers who were
still laughing and enjoying the sun. Eventually, I decided to go
into the little ground-floor restaurant. I felt sure that, with mv
hollow checksand thebeard whichhadgrown during my illness.
no one would recognize me. Just as I was taking mv seat .it a
table, who should appear but Madame Gabin herself, holding a
smallcupto fetch herselfsomecoffee. She planted herselfin front
ofthe counter and started exchanging the morning's gossip with
the owner's Wfife. I pricked up my I

212 Dead Men Tell No Tales
'Well, has that poor little woman on the third floor made up
her mind at last?' the woman enquired.
'What could she do?' replied Madame Gabin. 'It was the best
thingforher. MonsieurSimoneauhasbeensuchagoodfriend
. . .
He'djust completed his business, he was coming into a lot of
moneyandhewasofferingtotakeherbackwithhimtohishome
town, whereshe'dbeabletolivewithoneofhisauntswhoneeds
a companion.'
Thewomanbehind thebargavealittlelaugh. I washiding my
facebehindanewspaper; I hadgoneverypaleandmyhandswere
trembling.
'I imagine that it'll end in their getting married,' Madame
Gabin went on. 'But I can assure you I haven't seen any hanky-
panky The poor dear was heartbroken over her husband and
. . .
hebehavedlikeapropergentleman. Anyway, theyleftyesterday.
Once she's out ofmourning, they'll please themselves what they
do, won't they?'
At that moment, the door leading from the hall into the
restaurant swung open and Dede came in.
'Aren't you going to come, Mummy? I've been waiting for
you. Do hurry up!'
'I'm coming in a minute. Don't bother me!' her mother
replied.
Thegirl stayedlisteningtothetwowomen, liketheprecocious
little Paris brat she was.
'And after all, the husband wasn't a patch on Monsieur
Simoneau,' said Madame Gabin, following her train ofthought.
'I didn'tthink muchofthat little whipper-snapper. Alwayscom-
plaining . . . And as poor as a church mouse. No, really, a
husband like that can't be much fun for a woman with some
blood in her veins . . . And Monsieur Simoneau is rich and as
strong as an ox.'
'Oh yes,' Dede broke in, 'I saw him having a wash one day.
You should have seen his hairy arms!'
'Nowjustyourunalong!'theoldwomanshouted, givinghera
push. 'You're always sticking your nose in where it's not
wanted.'
Then she concluded:
'SoIreckonthatthehusbanddidtherightthingindying. It'sa
wonderful stroke ofluck.'

Dead Men Tell No Tales 213
When I found myselfin the street once again, my legs could
barely support me. I walked slowly away; and yet I wasn't too
unhappy. I even smiled when I looked at my shadow cast by the
sun: I really was weedy. It had been a queer notion ofmine to
marry Marguerite. . . And I remembered how much she'd dis-
liked Guerande, how impatient she'd become and tired of her
boring life. She had shown herselfa good wife; but I had never
been a proper lover for her. It was a brother she was mourning,
not a husband. Why should I disturb her life again? A dead man
can't be jealous. . . When I raised my eyes, I saw that I was
standing in front ofthe Luxembourg gardens. I went in and sat
down in the sun. I slipped into a gentle daydream. I felt full of
tenderness towards Marguerite now. I could see her living in the
provinces like a lady, in her little country town, very happy and
loved by everyone. People would make a fuss ofher. She would
grow into a beauty and have three sons and two daughters
. . .
No, I'd done the right thing in dying and I'd certainly not be
stupid or cruel enough to come back to life.
Since that time, I've travelled a great deal and lived in many
different places. I'm a very ordinary man who's worked and fed
like everyone else. I'm no longer afraid of dying, but death
doesn't seem to want anything to do with me, now thatI cansee
no point in living. I'm afraid he's forgotten me.

SHELLFISH FOR MONSIEUR CHABRE
MONSIEURCHABREhadone greatsorrow: hewas childless. He
had married a Mademoiselle Estelle Catinot (of the firm of
Desvignes and Catinot). She was tall, beautiful and blonde, only
eighteen years of age; but for the last four years he had been
anxiously waiting, with growing dismay and wounded pride at
the failure ofhis efforts.
Monsieur Chabre was a retired corn-merchant and a very
wealthyman. Despitehavinglivedcontinently, asbefittedasolid
middle-class business man bent on becoming a millionaire, he
walkedwiththeheavytreadofanold man, althoughhewasonly
forty-five. Hisface, prematurelylinedwithfinancialcares, wasas
dull as ditchwater. And he was in despair, for a man who enjoys
aninvestmentincomeoffiftythousandfrancsayearhastheright
to feel surprised when he discovers that it is more difficult to
become a father than to become rich.
MadameChabrewastwenty-twoyearsoldandbeautiful. With
her peach-like complexion and golden blonde hair curling in
ringlets over her neck, she was quite adorable. Her blue-green
eyeswerelikeslumbering poolshiding depthsdifficulttoplumb.
When her husband complained oftheir childlessness, she would
arch her supple body, emphasizing the curves of her hips and
bosom, and her wry half-smile plainly said: 'Is it any fault of
mine?' It must be added that in her circle of friends and
acquaintances, Madame Chabre was acknowledged as a young
woman of perfect breeding, adequately pious and incapable of
giving rise to the slightest breath ofscandal, brought up, indeed,
in the soundest of middle-class principles by a strict mother.
Onlythenostrilsofherlittlewhitenosewouldgiveanoccasional
nervous twitch which might have given some cause for concern
to anyone but a retired corn-merchant.
Meanwhile the family doctor, Dr Guiraud, a large, shrewd,
smiling man, had already been called in for a number ofprivate
consultations with Monsieur Chabre. He had explained to him
how backward sciencewas: you can't planta child as you'd plant
an oak, dear me no! However, not wishing to leave anyone
entirely without hope, he had promised to give thought to the

Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre 215
case. So, oneJuly morning he called on Monsieur Chabre and
said:
'You ought to goon a holiday to thesea and dosome bathing.
It's an excellent thing. And above all, cat shellfish, lots of
shellfish. Nothing but shellfish.'
Monsieur Chabre's hopes rose.
'Shellfish, doctor?' he asked eagerly. 'Do you think that
shellfish...?'
'Yes, I doindeed! There'sstrongevidenceofthesuccessofthat
treatment. So you must understand, every day you eat oysters,
mussels, clams, sea-urchins, notforgettingcrayfishandlobsters!'
Then,justashewasstandinginthedoorwayreadytoleave, he
added casually:
'Don't bury yourselfin some out-of-the-way place. Madame
Chabreisyoungandneedsentertainment.
. .
GotoTrouville,
it's
full ofozone.'
Three days later, the couple were on their way. However, the
ex-corn-merchant had thought it pointless to go to Trouville,
where he'd have to spend money hand-over-fist. You can eat
shellfish anywhere, indeed, in an out-of-the-way resort the
shellfish wouldbemoreplentifulandfarcheaper. Asforentertain-
ment, there's always too much ofthat. After all, they weren't
travelling for pleasure.
A friend had recommended the tiny resort ofPouligucn, close
to Saint Nazaire, a new town with its modern, dead-straight
streets still full of building sites. They visited the harbour and
loitered round the streets where the shops hesitated between
being tiny, gloomy village stores and large luxury grocers. At
Pouliguen there was not one single house left unlet. The little
timber and plaster houses, looking like garish fairground shacks,
which stretched round the bay, had all been invaded by the
English and rich Nantes tradesmen. Estelle pulled a wry face
when she saw the queer structures in which middle-class archi-
tects had given free rein to their imagination.
The travellers were advised to spend the night m (iuerandc. It
was a Sunday. When they arrived just before noon, even
Monsieur Chabre, although not naturally a poetic person, was at
hrst struck with admiration by this little jewel of a inediev.il
town, so well-preserved with its ramparts and deep gatcw
with battlements, hstelle looked at the drowsv little town.

216 Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre
surrounded by its esplanades shaded by tall trees, and its charm
broughtagleamintothedreamypoolsofhereyes. Theircarriage
drovein through oneofthe gateways and clatteredat a trotover
the cobblestones of the narrow streets. The Chabres had not
exchanged a word.
'What a dump!' the ex-corn-merchant muttered finally. 'The
villages round Paris are far better built.'
TheircarriagehaltedinfrontoftheHotelduCommerce, inthe
centre ofthe town, next to the church, and as they were getting
out, Mass wasjustending. Whileherhusband wasseeingtotheir
luggage, Estelle was intrigued to see the congregation coming
out ofchurch, many ofwhom were dressed in quaint costumes.
Some of the men were wearing white smocks and baggy
breeches; these were those who lived and worked in the vast,
desolate salt-marshes which stretch between Guerande and Le
Croisic. Thenthereweretheshare-croppers, acompletelydiffer-
ent species, who wore short woollenjackets and round broad-
brimmed hats. But Estelle was particularly excited by the ornate
costumeworn by onegirl. Herheaddressfittedtightlyroundthe
temples and rose up to a point. Over her red bodice with wide-
cuffed sleeves, she had a silk front brocaded with brightly
coloured flowers. Her triple, tight-pleated, blue woollen skirt
was held by a belt embroidered in gold and silver, while a long
orange-coloured apron hung down, revealing her red woollen
stockings and dainty yellow slippers.
'How can they allow that sort ofthing!' exclaimed Monsieur
Chabre. 'You only see that kind ofcircus get-up in Brittany.'
Estellemadenoreply. A tallyoungman, abouttwentyyearsof
age, was coming out ofchurch, giving his arm to an old lady.
. .
He had a very pale complexion and honey-coloured hair; he
looked very self-possessed and was something ofa giant, with
broadshouldersandmusculararms, despitehisyouth. Yethehad
a delicate, gentle expression which, combined with his pink
complexion and smooth skin, gave him a girlish appearance. As
Estellewasstaringathim, struckbyhisgoodlooks, heturnedhis
head and his eyes rested on her for a second. Then he blushed to
the roots ofhis hair.
'Well there's someone at least who looks human. He'll make a
fine cavalry officer,' said Monsieur Chabre.
'That's Monsieur Hector Plougastel with his mother,' said the

Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre 217
hotel maid, hearing this remark. 'He's such a kind, well-behaved
boy.'
While the Chabres were taking lunch, a lively argument arose
at their table d'hote. The registrar ofmortgages, who took his
meals at the Hotel du Commerce, was speaking approvingly of
Guerande's patriarchal way oflife and particularly of the high
moralstandardsoftheyoungpeople. Heclaimedthatit wastheir
religious upbringing which was responsible for their good be-
haviour. However, a commercial traveller, who had arrived that
morning with a stock offalsejewellery, recounted with a grin
howhe'dseenyoungmenandgirlskissingbehindthehedgerows
as he was driving along the road. He would have liked to see
whattheladsofthetownwould havedoneifgiventhechanceto
meeta fewattractive friendlyladies. Andhewentonto pokefun
at religion, priests and nuns until the outraged registrarofmort-
gages flung down his napkin and stamped out ofthe room. The
Chabres had gone on eating without saying a word, with the
husbandfuriousatthesortofconversationyouhavetolistentoat
a table d'hotewhilehis wifesat with a placid smile on herfaceas
ifshedidn't understand a word ofwhat they were talking about.
The Chabres spent the afternoon visiting Guerande. The
church of St Aubin was deliciously cool and as they walked
slowly around inside, they looked up at the arched vaulting
supported on slender columns which shot upwards like stone
rockets, stopping to admire the strange carved capitals depicting
torturers sawing theirvictims in twoandroasting themon grills,
using large bellows to fan the flames. Then they strolled round
the five or six main streets ofGuerande and Monsieur Chabre
was confirmed in his view: it was nothing but a dump, with no
trade to speak of, just one more of those antiquated medieval
towns so many ofwhich had already been knocked down. The
streets were deserted, with their rows ofgabled houses piled up
sidebysidelikesomanytiredoldwomen. Thepointedroots, the
slate-covered pepper-pots and corner turrets and the weather-
worn sculptures made some ofthe quiet back streets ofthe town
teem like museums drowsing in the sun. At the sight ofall the
leadlighted windows, a dreamy look came into Estellc's e
since her marriage she had taken to reading novels and she was
thinking ofWalter Scott.
But when the Chabres went outside the town and walked all

218 Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre
round it, they found themselves nodding their heads apprecia-
tively- Theyhadtoadmitthatitreally wascharming. Thegranite
walls which completely encircled the town had weathered to a
richhoney colourand wereasintactas whentheyhadbeenbuilt,
thoughivy andhoneysucklenowdraped thebattlements. Shrubs
hadgrownonthetowersflanking therampartsandtheirbrightly
coloured flowers, golden gorse and flaming gilly-flower, glowed
under the clear blue sky. Grassy walks under shady age-old oaks
extendedallaroundthetown. Theypickedtheirwaycarefully, as
though stepping on a carpet, as they walked along beside the
former moat, partly filled in and further on turning into weed-
covered stagnant pools in whose mysteriously glinting surface
weremirroredthewhitetrunksofbirchtreesgrowingcloseupto
the walls amongst the wispy green undergrowth. Rays oflight
shone through the trees lighting up hidden nooks and crannies,
the deep-set posterns where the peace ofcenturies was disturbed
only by the sudden leaps offrightened frogs.
'Therearetentowers, I'vejustbeencountingthem,'exclaimed
Monsieur Chabre when they had come round to their starting
point.
Hehadbeen particularlystruckbythefourgatewayswiththeir
long narrow entrances through which only one carriage could
pass at a time. Wasn't it quiteabsurd to keep yourselfshutin like
that in the nineteenth century? Ifhe'd been in charge he'd have
knocked down the fortress-like gateways, with their useless
loopholes and such thick walls that you could havebuilt a couple
ofsix-storey dwellings on their sites.
'Not to mention all the building materials you'd get from
demolishing the ramparts,' he added.
They were standing in the Mall, a spacious raised esplanade
which curved in a quarter-circle from the eastern to the southern
gateways. Estelle was gazing pensively over the striking
panorama which spread out for miles beyond the roofs of the
suburbs. Firstofalltherecameadense, darkgreenbeltofgnarled
shrubs and pine trees leaning sideways from the force of the
winds coming in from the ocean. Then followed the immense
plain of desolate salt-marshes, flat and bare, with their square
patches ofseawater gleaming like mirrors beside the little heaps
of salt which shone white against the grey expanse of sand.
Further on, at the skyline, she could make out the deep blue of

Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre 219
theAtlanticonwhich threetiny sailslookedlikewhiteswallows.
'There's the young man we saw this morning,' said Monsieur
Chabre suddenly. 'Doesn't he remind you ofLaviere's son? Ifhe
had a humpback, he'd look exactly like him.'
EstelleturnedslowlyroundbutHector, standingattheedgeof
the Mall and equally absorbed in watching the sea on the distant
horizon, did not seem to notice that he was being observed. The
young woman started walking slowly on again. She was using
her long sunshade as a walking stick but she had barely taken a
dozenstepsbeforeits bowcameloose. TheChabresheardavoice
behind them.
'Excuse me, madame. .'
.
Hector had retrieved the bow.
'Thankyouverymuchindeed,' saidEstellewithherquietsmile.
He really was a nice, well-mannered young man. Monsieur
Chabre took to him at once and explained to him the problem
facing them of finding a suitable resort, and even asked for
Hector's advice.
Hector was very shy.
'I don't think you'll find the sort ofplace you're looking for
either at Le Croisic or Le Batz,' he said, pointing to the church
spires ofthese two little towns on the horizon. 'I think your best
plan would be to go to Piriac'
Hegavethemsomedetails: Piriacwas aboutsevenmilesaway;
he had an uncle living on the outskirts. Finally, in reply to
questions by Monsieur Chabre, he said that there were plenty of
shellfish to be found there.
The young woman was poking the point ofher sunshade into
the short turf. The young man kept his eyes averted as though
embarrassed to look her in the face.
'Gucrandc is an extremely pretty place,' she said finally in her
soft voice.
'Oh yes, extremely,' stammered Hector, suddenly devouring
her with his eyes.
One morning, three days after settling in at Piriac, Monsieur
Chabre was standing on the platform .it the end o( the seawall
protecting the tmv harbour, itolidly keeping watch ovei I

220 Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre
who was bathing. At the moment she was floating on her back.
The sun was already very hot and, decorously dressed in black
frock-coat and felthat, hewas warding offits raysbymeans ofa
sunshade with a green lining. He looked every inch the holiday
visitor.
'Isthewaterwarm?' heenquired, feigning interestinhis wife's
bathing.
'Lovely!' she replied, turning on to her front.
MonsieurChabrewasterrifiedofthewaterandneverventured
intoit. Hewouldexplainthathisdoctorshadexplicitlyforbidden
him to bathe in the sea. When a wave so much as came towards
his shoes on the beach, he would start back in alarm asifhewere
being faced by some vicious animal baring its teeth. In any case,
seawater would have disturbed his decorum; he looked on it as
dirty and disgusting.
'So it really is warm?' he enquired again, his head swimming
from the heat. He felt both drowsy and uncomfortable standing
at the end ofthe seawall.
Estelledidnotbothertoreply: shewas busyswimming adog-
paddle. Inthewater, shewasasfearlessasaboyandwouldswim
forhours, tothedismayofherhusband who feltitincumbenton
him to wait at the water's edge. At Piriac Estelle had found the
sort ofbathing she liked; she despised gently shelving beaches
where you have to walk a long way out before the water comes
uptoyourwaist. Shewouldgototheendoftheseawallwrapped
in her flannel bathrobe, slip it offand take a header without a
second thought. She used to say that she needed fifteen feet of
water to avoid striking her head on the rocky bottom. Her
skirtless one-piece bathing costume clung to her tall figure and
the long blue belt tied round her waist emphasized the graceful
curveofherfirm, fullhips. Movingthroughtheclearwater, with
her hair caught up in a rubber bathing cap from which a few
strands ofblonde curls wereescaping, shelookedlikesomesleek
agile dolphin with a disconcertingly pink woman's face.
Monsieur Chabre had been standing in the sweltering hot sun
foragoodquarterofanhour. Hehadalreadyconsultedhiswatch
three times. Finally he risked a timid comment:
'You've been in a long time, my dear. Oughtn't you to come
out? You'll get tired, bathing so long.'
'But I've onlyjust gone in,' the young woman replied. 'I'm as
warm as toast.'

Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre 221
Then, turning on her back again, she added:
'Ifyou're bored, you needn't stay. I don't need you.'
Heobjectedwithashakeofhishead, pointingouthowquickly
a danger could arise; Estelle smiled at the thought; her husband
would be a fat lot of good if she were suddenly attacked by
cramp. But at this moment her attention was drawn to the other
side of the seawall, towards the bay that lay to the left of the
village.
'Good gracious!' sheexclaimed. 'What's happeningoverthere?
I'm going to have a look.'
And she swam offwith a long, powerful breast-stroke.
'Estelle, come back!' shouted Monsieur Chabre. 'You know I
can't bear it when you take risks!'
But Estelle was not listening and he had to possess himselfin
patience. Standing on tiptoe to watch the white speck of his
wife's straw hat, he merely transferred his sunshade to the other
hand; he was finding thestifling heat moreandmoreunbearable.
'What on earth has she seen?' he muttered to himself. 'Oh, it's
that thing floating over there. . . A bit ofrubbish, I expect. A
bunch of seaweed, perhaps? Or a barrel. No, it can't be, it's
moving.'
Then he suddenly recognized what it was:
'It's a man swimming!'
However, after a few strokes, Estelle had also recognized
perfectlywellthatitwasaman. Shethereforestoppedswimming
straight towards him, since that seemed hardly the properthing.
But she mischievously decided not to swim back to the seawall
and continued to make for the open sea, pleased to be able to
show how bold she was. She pursued her course, pretending not
tonoticetheotherswimmer, whowasnow graduallycoming up
towards her, as ifbeing carried by the current. Thus, when she
turned round to swim back to the seawall, their paths crossed,
apparently quite fortuitously.
'I hope you are well, madamc?' the young man enquired
politely.
4Oh, it's you!' Estelle exclaimed brightly.
And she added with a smile:
'What a small world it is, isn't it?'
It was young Hector dc Plougastel. He was still very shy, very
well builtandlookedverypink in thewater. Fora moment thev

222 Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre
swam without speaking, maintaining a decent distance between
each other. In order to converse, they had to raise their voices.
However, Estelle felt that she ought to be polite.
'We're very grateful to you for having told us about Piriac.
. .
My husband is delighted with it.'
'Isn't that your husband standing by himselfon the seawall?'
asked Hector.
'Yes,' she replied.
Silence fell again. They were watching her husband who
looked like a tiny black insect above the sea. Very intrigued,
MonsieurChabrewascraninghisneckevenmoreandwondering
who the man was whose acquaintance his wife hadjust made in
the middle ofthe sea. There was no doubt aboutit, his wife was
definitelychatting withhim. ItmustbeoneoftheirParis friends.
But running his mind over the list oftheir friends, he could not
think ofone bold enough to swim so far out. And so he waited,
aimlessly twirling his sunshade round in his hand.
'Yes,'
HectorwasexplainingtotheattractiveMadameChabre,
'I've come over to spend a few days in my uncle's chateau which
youcanseeoverthere, halfwayupthehill. Sofor my dailyswim,
I set offfrom that piece oflandjutting out opposite the terrace
and swim to the seawall and back. Just over a mile in all. It's
wonderfulexercise.
. .
Butyou'reaverydaringswimmer, Idon't
think I've ever met such a daring lady swimmer.'
'Oh I've been splashing about in the water ever since I was a
little girl,' said Estelle. 'Water doesn't have any secrets for me,
we're old friends.'
To avoid having to talk so loudly, they were gradually
drawing closer to each other. On this beautiful warm morning,
the sea was like one vast piece ofwatered silk, drowsing in the
sun. Parts wereas smooth as satin, separated bynarrow bandsof
shimmering water, stretching out into the distance, currents
looking like creases in a cloth. Once they were closer to each
other, their conversation took a more intimate turn.
'What a superb day!' And Hector began to point out several
landmarks along the coast. That village over there, less than a
mile away, was Port aux Loups; opposite was the Morbihan,
with its white cliffs standing out sharply as in some watercolour;
and finally, in the other direction, towards the open sea, the
island ofDumet could beseen as a grey speck set in the blue sea.

Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre 223
Each time Hector pointed, Estelle stopped swimming for a
second, charmed to see thesedistant sights from sea-level against
theinfinitebackdropofthelimpidsky. Whenshelookedtowards
the sun, her eyes were dazzled and the sea seemed as though
transformed into a boundless Sahara, with the blinding sunlight
bleaching the immense stretch ofsandy beach.
'Isn't it lovely,' she murmured. 'Isn't it really gorgeous!'
She turned over and relaxed, lying back motionless in the
waterwith herarms stretched out sideways. Hergleaming white
thighs and arms floated on the surface.
'So you were born in Guerande?' she asked.
'Yes,' he replied. 'I've only been once as far as Nantes.'
In order to talk more comfortably, Hector now also turned
overon to his back. He gave details ofhis upbringing, forwhich
his mother had been responsible: a narrowly devout woman
whosevalues hadbeen thetraditional ones oftheold aristocracy.
He had had a priest as tutor who had taught him more or less
what he would have learned in a private school, plus large
amounts ofcatechism and heraldry. He rode, fenced and took a
greatdeal ofexercise. And with all this, heseemed as innocentas
a babe in arms. He went to Mass every week, never read novels
and when he reached his majority, would be marrying a very
plain cousin.
'Goodness me! So you're onlyjust twenty,' exclaimed Estelle,
castingan astonishedglanceatthis young colossus. Her maternal
instincts were aroused; this fine specimen of the Breton race
intrigued her. But as they continued floating on their backs, lost
in contemplation ofthe transparent blue sky and quite oblivious
ofland, they drifted so close together that he slightly knocked
against her.
'Oh, I'm sorry,' he said.
And dived and came to the surface five yards away. She burst
into laughter and began to swim again.
'You boarded me!' she cried.
He was very red in the face. He swam nearer again, watching
her slyly. Under her broad-brimmed straw hat, she seemed to
himdelightful. Hecouldseenothingbut herfaceand herdimpled
chin dipping into the water. A few drops ofwater dripped trom
the blonde curls escaping from beneath her bathing cap, and
glistened likepearlsonthedownofhercheeks. Hecould imagine

224 Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre
nothing more charming than the smile and pretty face of this
young woman swimming ahead of him, gently splashing and
leaving behind her merely a silvery trail.
When he noticed that Estelle realized that she was being
watched and was amused at the odd figure he was certainly
cutting, Hector blushed an even deeper red. He tried to find
something to say:
'Your husband seems to be getting impatient.'
'Oh, I don't think so,' she replied calmly. 'He's used to being
kept waiting when I'm having a swim.'
In fact, Monsieur Chabre was becoming restless. He kept
taking four steps forward, turning round and taking four steps
backward, twirling his sunshade even more vigorously in an
endeavour to cool himself.
ItsuddenlyoccurredtoEstellethatperhapsherhusbandhadn't
recognized Hector.
'I'll call out and tell him it's you,' she said.
And as soon as she was in earshot ofthe seawall, she shouted:
'It's the gentleman we met in Guerande who was so helpful.'
'Oh good!' Monsieur Chabre shouted back. He raised his hat
and said politely:
'Is the water warm?'
'Very pleasant, thank you,' Hector replied.
Theirbathecontinuedundertheeyeofthehusband whocould
now hardly complain, even though his feet were excruciatingly
hot from having to stand on the scorching stones. At the end of
theseawall, thewaterwaswonderfullytransparentandyoucould
see the fine sandy bottom some two or three fathoms down,
speckledhere and there with pale or dark pebbles amidst waving
tendrils of seaweed rising perpendicularly towards the surface.
Estelle was fascinated by the clearness ofthe water as she swam
gently along in order not to ruffle the surface, bending her head
forward until the water came up to her nose and watching the
sand and the pebbles stretched out in the mysterious depths
below. She was especially fascinated by the clumps of green
seaweed that seemed almost like living creatures with their
swayingjaggedleavesresemblinghundredsofcrabs'claws, some
ofthem short and sturdy growing between the rocks and others
long and flexible like snakes. She kept uttering little cries each
time she discovered something new:

Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre 225
'Oh whatabigstone! Itlooksasifit'smoving.
. .
Oh, there'sa
tree, a real tree with branches! Oh, there's a fish! It's darting
away!'
Then suddenly she exclaimed:
'What on earth is that? It's a wedding bouquet! Do you think
therereallyareweddingbouquetsinthesea?Look, wouldn'tyou
say that they're like orange blossoms? Oh, it's so pretty!'
Hectorimmediatelydivedandcameupwithafistfulofwhitish
seaweed which drooped and faded as soon as it left the water.
'Oh, thank you so much,' said Estelle. 'You shouldn't have
bothered... Here you are, keep that for me, will you?' she
added, throwing the bunch ofseaweed at her husband's feet. For
a few moments the young couple continued their swim. The air
was filled with spray fromtheirflailing arms andthen, suddenly,
they relaxed and glided through the water, in a circle ofripples
which spread out and died away; and the surging water around
them filled them with a private sensual pleasure all their own.
Hector was trying to glide along in the wakeofEstelle's body as
it slid throughthe waterand hecould feel thewarmthleft by the
movement ofher limbs. All around, the sea had become even
calmer and its pale blue had taken on a touch ofpink.
'You'll be getting cold, my dear,' urged Monsieur Chabre,
who was dripping with sweat himself.
'All right, I'm coming out,' she replied.
And so she did, pulling herselfup quickly with the help ofa
chain hanging down the sloping sideoftheseawall. Hector must
have been watching for her to climb out; but when he raised his
head on hearing the spatter of drops she left behind, she was
already on the platform and wrapped in her bathing robe. He
looked so surprised and disconcerted that she had to smile as she
gave a little shiver; and she gave a little shiver because she knew
that she was charming when she did so, draped in her bathrobe
with her tall figure standing out against the sky.
The young man reluctantly took his leave.
'We hope to sec you again,' the husband said.
And while Estelle ran back along the seawall, watching
Hector's head disappearing over the water as he swam back
acrossthebay, MonsieurChabre walked after her with the bunch
of seaweed gathered by the young man solemnly held out in
order to avoid wetting his frock coat.

226 Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre
In Piriac the Chabres had rented the first floorofa large house
overlooking the sea. As the village had no decent restaurants,
they had had to take on a local woman to cook for them. And a
queersortofcookshewas, producingroastsburnttoacinderand
such peculiar-looking sauces that Estelle preferred to stick to
bread. But as Monsieur kept pointing out, they hadn't come to
enjoy the pleasures ofthe table. In any case, he hardly touched
either the roasts or the sauces for he was stuffing himself,
morning, noon and night, on shellfish ofevery description, with
the determination ofsomeone taking medicine. The unfortunate
thing was that he loathed these strange, oddly shaped creatures,
having been brought up on a typical middle-class diet ofinsipid
hygienic food, and retained his childish predilection for sweet
things. The queer flavour and salty fieriness of shellfish burnt
his tongue and made him pull a face every time he swallowed
them; but in his eagerness to become a father, he would have
swallowed the shells themselves.
'Estelle, you're not eating any,' he would exclaim, for he
insisted that she should eat as many as he and when Estelle
pointed out that Dr Guiraud hadn't mentioned her, Monsieur
Chabre replied that, logically, they should both submit to the
sametreatment. Estellepursedherlips, letherbrighteyesrestfor
a momentonherhusband's pasty paunch and couldhotrepress a
slight smilewhich deepened the dimples on her cheek. She made
no comment, for she did not like hurting people's feelings.
Having discovered that there was a local oyster bed, she even
consented to eat a dozen ofthem at every meal, not because she,
personally, needed oysters; but she adored them.
Life in Piriac was monotonous and soporific. There were only
three families of holiday-makers: a wholesale grocer from
Nantes, a formerlawyer fromGuerande, asnaiveashewas deaf,
andacouplefromAngerswhospentalldaywaist-deepinthesea,
fishing. The restricted company would hardly be described as
boisterous. They would greet each other each time they met but
made no attempt to further their acquaintance. The greatest
excitement was provided by the occasional dogfight on the
deserted quayside.

Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre 227
Accustomed to the noise and bustle of Paris, Estelle would
have been bored to death had Hector not taken to calling every
day. After going for a walk with Monsieur Chabre along the
coast, he had become a firm friend ofthe older man who in an
expansivemomenthadconfidedtohim thepurposeofhistrip, in
the discreetest possible terms, in order not to shock the modest
young man's delicatesensibilities. When he mentioned the scien-
tificreasonforeatingsuchvastquantitiesofshellfish, Hectorwas
so amazed that he forgot to blush and looked him up and down
without even bothering to conceal his surprise that a man might
need to submit to such a diet. Nevertheless, the following
morning he presented him with a small basketful ofclams which
the ex-corn-merchant accepted with obvious gratitude. Since
then, being a highly competent all-round fisherman and familiar
with every rock in the bay, Hector had never come to the house
without bringing some shellfish: superb mussels which he had
gathered at low tide; sea-urchins which he cut open and cleaned,
pricking his fingers in the process; and limpets which he prised
offthe rocks with the tip ofhis knife; in a word, every kind of
shellfish, often bearing barbarous names, and which he would
neverhavedreamtofeatinghimself. Nolongerhavingtospenda
penny on his diet, Monsieur Chabre was profuse in his thanks.
Hector now had a permanent pretext to come to the Chabres'
flat. Every time he arrived carrying his little basket, he would
make the same remark when he saw Estelle:
'I'm bringing your husband some shellfish.'
And the couple would exchange a smile with a glint in their
half-closed eyes; they found Monsieur Chabre's shellfish rather
funny.
Estellenowdiscoveredthat Piriacwasfullofcharm. Everyday
after her bathe, she would go for a walk with Hector; her
husband lumbered along, heavy-footed, some distance behind;
they often went too fast for him. Hector would point out
examples ofPiriac's more elegant past, remains ofsculpture and
delicately worked ornamental doors and windows. By now.
what used to be a town had become merely a remote village with
its narrow streets blocked by dung heaps and lined with gloomy
hovels. But Estelle found the stillness ,\nd isolation so charming
thatshewasquiteprepared tostepover the toul-smelliiig poolsoi
liquid seeping from the middens, intrigued by every quaint old-

228 Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre
world corner and peering inquisitively at the miserable gim-
crackery lying about the mud floors of the local inhabitants'
poverty-stricken houses. Hector would stop and show her the
superb fig trees in the gardens, with their broad, furry, leathery
leavesoverhangingthelowfences. Theywentintothenarrowest
littlestreetsandleanedoverthebrinksofthewellstolookattheir
smiling faces mirrored in the clear shining water below, while
behindthem MonsieurChabrewasbusydigestinghisshellfishin
theshade ofthe green-lined sunshade which neverlefthis grasp.
OneofEstelle'sgreatjoyswastoseethegroupsofpigsandgeese
roaming freely round the village. At first she had been terribly
frightenedofthepigsbecausetheunpredictablemovementsoftheir
fat sturdy bodies supported on such puny little feet made her
continually apprehensive ofbeing knocked into and tipped over;
and they were filthy, too; with their bellies covered in black mud,
they kept grunting all thetimeas they grubbedin theground with
their dirty snouts. But Hector assured her that pigs werethenicest
sort ofanimals and now she was amused to see how they dashed
wildlyuptobefedandshelovedtheirfreshpinkskinlookinglikea
silky evening gown, after the rain had washed them clean. The
geesefascinatedher, too. Twogagglesofthemwouldoftenmeetat
the end ofa lane beside a holeful ofdung, coming from opposite
directions. They seemed to greet each other with a click oftheir
beaks and thenjoined forces to pick over the vegetable peelings
floatingonthesurface. Oneofthemwouldclimbmajesticallyonto
the top ofthe pile, stretching out his neck and opening his eyes
wide;heseemedalmosttobestruttingashefluffedoutthedownon
his breast; with his prominent yellow nose, he looked like a real
king ofthecastle. Meanwhiletheothers benttheirnecks to peck at
the ground, quacking in unison as they did so. Then, suddenly,
thebiggoosewouldcomesquawkingdownfromthetopandthe
geesebelonging tohis group would followhimaway, all poking
out their necks in the same direction and waddling in time, as if
they all had a limp. Ifa dog appeared, they would stretch their
necks outevenmoreandstarthissing. Atthis, Estellewould clap
herhandsandfollowthesolemnprocessionofthetwocompanies
of geese as they made their way home like highly respectable
people intent on important business. Another ofher entertain-
ments was toseeboth pigs and geesegoing down tothebeachin
the afternoon,just like human beings.

Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre 229
OnherfirstSundayinPiriac, Estellefeltthatsheoughttogoto
Mass, something which she never did in Paris. But in the
country, Mass was a way ofpassing the time, and a chance to
dress up and see people. Indeed, she met Hector there, reading
out of an enormous prayerbook whose binding was coming
unstuck. He didnottakehiseyesoffher, peeping overthetop of
his book while still reading religiously; but the glint in his eye
hinted that he was smiling inwardly. As they were leaving the
church, heofferedhisarmtoEstelleastheywerepassingthrough
the churchyard. In the afternoon, after Vespers, there was
anotherspectacle, aprocessiontoaCalvaryattheotherendofthe
village. A peasant led the way carrying a purple silk banner
embroidered in gold and attached to a red shaft. Then followed
two straggling lines ofwomen. The priests were in the middle;
the parish priest with his curate and the local squire's tutor were
allsingingatthetopsoftheirvoices. Bringinguptherear, behind
a white banner carried by a brawny girl with tanned arms, there
camethecongregation, trampingalongintheirheavyclogslikea
disorderly flock of sheep. As the procession passed beside the
harbour, the banner and the white headdresses of the women
stoodoutagainstthebrightblueseaand inthesunlight, theslow
procession suddenly took on a simple grandeur.
The little churchyard made Estelle feel all sentimental,
although normally she didn't like sad things. On theday she had
arrived, she had shuddered at the sight of all those graves
underneathherwindow. Thechurchwasnotfarfromtheseaand
the arms ofthe crosses all around it stretched out towards the
immense sky and sea; on windy nights, the moisture-laden sea
breezeseemedtobeweepingonthisforestofdarkwoodenposts.
But she quickly became accustomed to this mournful sight, for
the tiny churchyard had something gentle and even cheertul
aboutit. Thedeadseemedtobesmilingin themidstoftheliving,
who were almost rubbing elbows with them. As the cemetery
wasenclosed byalow wall andthus blockedtheway through the
centre ofPiriac, people did not think twice about stepping over
the wall and following the paths which were almost invisible in
the tall grass. Children used to play there, scampering about all
over the granite flagstones. Cats would suddenly leap out from
under the bushes and chase each other, vuu could often bear their
amorouscaterwauling and see theirdark shapes with fur bristling

230 Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre
andlongtailswavingintheair. Itwasadelightfulcornercovered
with weeds and enormous fennel plants with broad yellow
flowers; on a warm day, their heady perfume would come
wafting up from the graves, filling the whole ofPiriac with a
scent of aniseed. And at night, how still and gentle the green
graveyard was! The peaceofPiriac itselfseemed tobeemanating
from the cemetery. The darkness hid the crosses and people
takingalateeveningstrollwouldsit downonthegranitebenches
againstthewallandwatchthewavesrollinginalmostattheirfeet,
enjoyingthesaltytangoftheseacarriedinontheeveningbreeze.
One evening as Estelle was going home on Hector's arm she
felt a sudden desire to go through the deserted graveyard.
Monsieur Chabre thought it was a romantic whim and showed
his protest byhimselfgoingalong thequayside. Thepath was so
narrow that Estelle was obliged to let go ofHector's arm. In the
tall grass her skirt made a long swishing sound. The scent of
fennel was so overpowering that the lovelorn cats did not run
away but remained lying languidly in the undergrowth. As they
cameinto theshadow ofthechurch, shefeltHector'shand touch
her waist. She gave a startled cry.
'Howstupid!' sheexclaimedastheycameoutoftheshadow.
'I
thought I was being carried offby a ghost.'
Hector laughed and offered his own explanation:
'It must have been the fennel brushing against your skirt.'
They stopped to look at the crosses all around them and the
profound stillness ofthe dead lying beneath their feet filled them
with a strange tenderness. They moved on, full ofsuppressed
emotion.
'You were scared; I heard you,' said Monsieur Chabre. 'It
serves you right!'
At high tide, they would amuse themselves by going downto
watch the arrival of the sardine boats; Hector would tell the
Chabres when a sail was seen making for the harbour. But after
seeing a few boats come in, Monsieur Chabre announced that it
was always the same thing. Estelle on the other hand never
seemed to weary ofthe scene and enjoyed going out on to the
seawall more and more. They often had to run. She would leap
overtheunevenstones, herskirtsflyingintheair, andshewould
catchhold ofthem to avoidtripping over. When shearrived, she
was quite puffed and, putting her hand on her chest, she would

Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre 231
throw her head back to regain her breath. With her dishevelled
hair and devil-may-care boyish air, Hector found her adorable.
Meanwhile the boat had tied up and the fishermen were carrying
up their baskets ofsardines which glistened in the sun like silver
with blue and sapphire, pink and pale ruby-red tints. The young
man always provided the same information: a basket contained a
thousandsardineswhich wouldfetchapricefixedeverymorning
according to the size ofthe catch; the fishermen would share the
proceeds ofthe sale afterhanding over one-third to the ownerof
the boat. Then the sardines would be salted straightaway in
wooden boxes with holes to allow the brine to drip away.
However, Estelle and her companion gradually came to neglect
the sardines. They would still go and see; but they didn't look.
They would hurry down to the harbour and then return in
silence, lazily gazing at the sea.
'Was it a good catch?' Monsieur Chabre would enquire each
time they returned.
'Yes, very good,' they would reply.
And every Sunday evening Pinac put on an open-air dance.
The young men and girls ofthe district wouldjoin hands and
dance round in a circle for hours on end, droning out the same
strongly accentuated refrain, and as these harsh voices boomed
out in the half-light, they gradually took on a kind ofbarbaric
charm. As she sat on the beach with Hector lying at her feet,
Estelle was soon sunk in daydreams. The sea came lapping in,
gently but boldly; as it broke on the sand, it seemed like a voice
full ofpassion suddenly stilled as the sound died away and the
water receded with a plaintive murmur like a love that had now
been tamed. And Estelle would sit dreaming ofbeing loved by a
giant whom she had succeeded in turning into a little boy.
'You must be bored in Piriac, my dear,' Monsieur Chabre
would occasionally say, in an enquiring tone, to his wife.
And she would hasten to reply:
'Oh no, not at all, I promise you.'
She was, in fact, enjoying her stay in this remote, dead-and-
alive little place. The geese and pigs and sardines had assumed
great importance; even the little churchyard was a cheerful spot.
Ihis drowsy, unsociable sort oflife in a village inhabited onlv bv
the grocer from Nantes and the deaf lawyer from Guerandc
seemed more exciting than the bustling existeme ofthe fashion-

232 Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre
able resorts. After a fornight, bored to tears, Monsieur Chabre
wouldwillinglyhavereturnedhometo Paris. Surelytheshellfish
must have produced their effect by now, he said. But she
protested:
4Oh no, my dear, you haven't had enough yet. I'm quite
. .
sure you need still more.'
One evening, Hector said to the couple:
'Tomorrow there's an exceptionally low tide. We could go
shrimping.'
Estellewas delightedby thesuggestion. Oh yes, theycertainly
must go and catch shrimps! She'd been looking forward to this
excursion forages! But MonsieurChabrehad objections. Firstof
all, you never catch anything . . . Furthermore, it was much
simpler to go and buy a franc's worth ofshrimps from a local
fisherman, without having to get wet up to your middle and
scrapetheskinoffyourfeet. Butin faceofhis wife's enthusiasm,
he was forced to give way.
There were elaborate preparations. Hector undertook to pro-
videthenets. Despitehis dislikeofcold water, MonsieurChabre
had expressed his willingness to participate and, once having
agreed, he was determined to do the job properly. On the
morning ofthe expedition, he had a pair ofboots dubbined; he
then dressed himselfin white twill from top to toe; but his wife
couldnotpersuadehimtoforgohisbow tie, theendsofwhichhe
fluffedout as ifhewere going toa wedding. Thebow tiewas his
protest, as a respectable member ofsociety, against the slovenli-
nessoftheAtlantic. AsforEstelle, shemerelyslippedashiftover
herbathingcostume. Hectorwasalsowearingabathingcostume.
The three ofthem set offatabout two o'clock in theafternoon
with theirnets overtheirshoulders. It was morethanamileacross
sand and seaweed to reach the rock where Hector had promised
theywouldfindplentyofshrimps. Hepilotedthecoupletowards
their goal, taking them in a bee-line through all the rock pools
and calmly ignoring the hazards on the way. Estelle followed
intrepidly, cheerfully paddling over the cool wet sand. Bringing
up the rear, Monsieur Chabre could see noneed to get his boots
wet before they reached the shrimping grounds. He conscienti-

Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre 233
ously skirted every pool,jumping over thechannels ofwaterleft
behindbytheebbingtideandcautiouslypickinghiswayoverthe
dry spots like a true Parisian balancing himselfon the tops ofthe
paving-setsonamuddy day in the Rue Vivienne. Hewas already
out ofbreath and kept asking:
'Is it still a long way? Why can't we start shrimping here? I'm
positive I can see some. . . Anyway, they're all over the place in
thesea, aren'tthey? I bet youonlyneedto push yournetthrough
the sand.'
'Go ahead and push, Monsieur Chabre,' replied Hector each
time.
So in order to recover his breath, Monsieur Chabre would
push his net along the bottom ofa pool not much larger than a
pocket handkerchief and as empty of shrimps as it was trans-
parent. So he caughtnothing, not even seaweed. Thenhe would
setoffagain, pursing hislips andlooking dignified, butas helost
groundeach time he insisted on proving that there were shrimps
everywhere, he ended by dropping a long way behind.
The tide was still going out, retreating almost a mile from the
coast. As far as the eye could see, the rocky, pebbly sea-bed was
emptying out, leaving a vast, wet, uneven and desolate wilder-
ness, like some storm-ravaged plain. In the distance the only
visible thing was the green fringe ofthe still receding sea, as if
being swallowed up by the land, while long, narrow bands of
dark rockslowlyemergedlikepromontoriesstretchingoutinthe
stagnant water. Estelle stopped to look at this immense, bare
expanse.
'Isn't it big!' she murmured.
Hector pointed to a number ofgreenish rocks worn smooth
by the waves.
'Those are only uncovered twice a month,' he explained.
'People go there to collect mussels. Can you see that brown spot
over there? That's the Red Cow rocks, the best place to catch
lobsters. You can't see them exceptatthe two lowest tides ofthe
year. But we must get a move on. We're going to those rocks
over there whose tops arejust beginning to show '
When they started to go into the sea, Estelle could hardly
restrain her excitement. She kept lifting her feet high in the air
and bringingthemdown with asplash, laughingasthesprav shot
up. Then, when the sea came up to her knees, she strode sk

234 Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre
delighted to feel the water pressing hard against her thighs and
surging between them.
'Don'tbe scared,' said Hector, 'You'llbegettinginto waterup
to your waist but it becomes shallower after that. We're nearly
there.'
And after crossing a narrow channel, they waded out ofthe
water and climbed up on to a wide rocky platform uncoveredby
thetide. Whentheyoungwomanlookedround, sheutteredacry
ofsurprise at seeing how far she had come from the shore. The
housesofPinacwerejusta lineoftinywhite spots stretchingout
along the shore, dominated by the square tower of its green-
shuttered church. Never had she seen such a vast expanse, with
the strip of sand gleaming in the bright sunlight and the dark
green seaweed and brilliantly coloured rocks glistening with
water. It was as ifthe earth had reached its uttermost limit in a
heap ofruins on the brink ofempty space.
Estelle and Hector were just about to start shrimping when
they heard a plaintive call. It was Monsieur Chabre stuck in the
middle ofthe channel and wanting to know which way to go.
'How do I get across?' he was shouting. 'Do I keep straight on?'
'Go to your left,' called Hector.
He went to his left but the shock of finding himself in still
deeperwateragain broughthim toahalt. Hedidnotdareevento
retrace his steps.
'Comeandhelpme,' he wailed. 'I'm surethereareholes round
here. I can feel them
'Keep to your right, MonsieurChabre, to yourright!' shouted
Hector.
And the poor man looked so funnyin the middleofthe water,
with his net over his shoulder and his splendid bow tie, that
Estelle and Hector could not refrain from sniggering. In the end
he managed to find a way through but he arrived in a very-
nervous state and snapped angrily:
'I can't swim, you know.'
He now began to worry about how to get back. When the
young man explained to him how important it was not to be
caught on the rock by the rising tide, he started becoming
anxious again:
'You will warn me, won't you?'
'Don't worry, I'll look after you.'

Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre 235
They all three started shrimping, probing the holes with their
narrownets. Estelleshowedafeminineenthusiasm and it wasshe
who caught the first shrimps, three large red ones which leapt
about wildly in her net. She called out to Hector to help her
becauseshewasratherscared by theirlively behaviour; but when
she saw that they stopped moving as soon as you caught hold of
them by their heads, she became bolder and had no trouble in
slipping them herselfinto thelittlebasket which shewascarrying
slung over her shoulder. Sometimes shenetted a wholebunch of
seaweed and had to rummage through it each time a sound like
the fluttering of wings warned her that shrimps were hidden
there. She sorted carefully through the seaweed, picking it up
gingerly between finger and thumb, rather uneasy at the strange
tangle offronds, soft and slimy like dead fish. Now and again,
she would peep impatiently into her basket, keen to fill it.
'How odd,' Monsieur Chabre kept exclaiming. 'I haven't
caught a single one.'
Being afraid ofventuring between the gaps in the rocks and
greatly hampered also by his boots which had become water-
logged, hewaspushinghisnetalongthesandybeach andthereby
catching nothing but crabs, half-a-dozen or even up to ten of
them ata time. Theyterrifiedhim andhewrestled with hisnetto
tip them out. Every so often he would turn anxiously round to
see ifthe tide was still ebbing.
'You're sure it's still going out?' he kept asking.
Hectormerelynodded;hewasshrimping withalltheassurance
ofa man who knows exactly where to go and as a result he was
catching great handfuls of them with each sweep of his net.
Wheneverhe found himselfworking beside Estelle, he would tip
his catch into her basket while she kept laughing and giving a
wink in the direction ofher husband, with her finger to her lips.
She looked most attractive as she bent forward over the long
wooden handle ofher net or else leaning her blonde curly head
over it as she eagerly peered to examine her catch. There was a
breeze blowing and the water dripping from her net soaked her
bathing costume with spray and made it cling to her, revealing
ertrj contour ofher youthful body.
They had been shrimping like this for some two hours when
she stopped for a rest, quite out ofbreath and with her honcy-
colourcd curls damp with perspiration The immense deserted

236 Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre
seascape still spread out, peaceful and magnificent; only the sea
couldbeseenshimmeringinthedistance, creatingamurmurthat
seemedtobegrowing louder. Thesun was blazinginafierysky;
it wasnow fouro'clockandits palebluehadturnedalmostgrey;
but this leaden, torrid heat was tempered and dispersed by the
coolness ofthe water, and a gentle haze dimmed theharsh glare.
Estelle was particularly charmed by the sight ofa whole host of
little black dots standing out very clearly on the horizon; they
wereshrimperslikethemselves, incredibly delicateinoutlineand
no larger than ants, ridiculous in their insignificance in the vast
immensity; yet you could distinguish their every gesture, their
shouldershunchedovertheirnetsandtheirarmsreachingoutand
gesticulating feverishly, liketrappedflies, as they sorted outtheir
catch, wrestling with the seaweed and the crabs.
'I assureyouthetide'scomingin,' MonsieurChabrecalledanxi-
ously. 'Look over there, that rock was uncovered a momentago.'
'Ofcourse it's coming in,' Hector retorted impatiently at last,
'and that's exactly the time when you catch most shrimps.'
But Monsieur Chabre was beginning to panic. At his last
attempt he hadjust caught a strange fish, an angler-fish, whose
freakish-looking head had terrified him. He had had enough.
'Comeon, let's go. Wemust begoing!' hekept repeating. 'It's
stupid to take risks.'
'Butwe'vejustbeen tellingyou thatit's thebesttimewhenthe
tide's starting to come in,' his wife replied.
'And it's coming in with a vengeance!' Hector added in an
undertone, with a mischievous glint in his eyes.
The waves were indeed beginning to roll in, booming as they
swallowed up the rocks; a whole spit ofsand would suddenly
disappear, swamped by the sea. The breakers were triumphantly
retaking possession oftheirage-old domain, foot by foot. Estelle
had discovered a pool the bottom ofwhich was covered in long
fronds ofseaweed, swirling round like strands ofhair, and she
was catching enormous shrimps, ploughing up long furrows
with her net and leaving behind large swathes, like a reaper.
She was thrashing around and determined not to be dragged
away.
'All right then,' Monsieur Chabre exclaimedin atearfulvoice,
'there's nothing to be done, I'm off. There's no sense in us all
being cut off

Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre 237
So he went offfirst, sounding the depth ofthe holes with the
longhandleofhisshrimpingnet. When hehadgonetwoorthree
hundred yards, Hector at last prevailed on Estelle to follow his
example.
'We're going to be up to our shoulders,' he said with a smile.
'Monsieur Chabre's going to get a thorough wetting. Look how
deep he is already.'
Ever since the start ofthe outing, Hector had had the slightly
furtive and preoccupied look of a young man in love and
promisinghimselftodeclarehisfeelings;buthehadnotbeenable
to pluck up courage to do so. As hehad slipped his shrimps into
Estelle's basket, he had indeed endeavoured to touch her fingers
but it was plain that he was furious with himself for being so
timorous. HewouldhavebeendelightedtoseeMonsieurChabre
fall into a hole and drown, because, for the first time, he was
finding the husband's presence a hindrance.
'I tell you what,' he said suddenly, 'you must climb up on my
backandI'llgiveyoualift. Otherwiseyou'regoingtogetsoaked
through. How about it? Up you get!'
He offered her his back but she blushed and declined, looking
embarrassed. He, however, refused to take no for an answer,
arguing that he was responsible for her safety. Eventually, she
clambered up, placing her two hands on his shoulders. He stood
asfirmasarock, straightenedhisback andsetoff, carryingheras
lightly as a feather, telling her to hang on tight as he strode
through the water.
'We've got to go right, haven't we?' Monsieur Chabre called
out to Hector in a plaintive voice. The water was already up to
his hips.
'That's it, keep going right,' the young man called back.
Then, as the husband turned to go on, shivering with fright
when he felt the watercoming up to his armpits, Hector, greatly
daring, kissed one of the tiny hands resting on his shoulder.
Estelle tried todraw it away but Hector warned hertokeep quite
still or else he could not be responsible for what would happen.
He started kissing her hand again: it was cool and salty and
seemed to be offering all the bitter delights ofthe Ocean.
'Will you please stop doing that/ Estelle kept protesting,
trying to sound cross. 'You're taking advantage ot me. It von
don't stop. I'll jump off.'

238 Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre
He didn't stop, nor did shejump off. He was keeping a tight
hold on her ankles while covering her hands with kisses, not
saying a word butalso keepinga closeeyeonMonsieurChabre's
back or at least all that could be seen ofhis pathetic back, now
threatening to disappear beneath the waves at every step.
'Didyousaykeeptotheright?"thehusbandcalledimploringly.
'Go left ifyou like!'
Monsieur Chabre took a step to his left and gave a cry. The
water had come up to his neck, submerging his bow tie. Hector
gratefully accepted the opportunity ofmaking his declaration:
'I love you
'You're not to say that, I forbid it!'
'I love you. . . I adore you. . . I haven't had the courage to tell
you so up till now because I was afraid ofoffending you.'
He could not turn his head to look at her and continued to
stride along with water up to his chest. Estelle could not refrain
from laughing out loud at the absurdity ofthe situation.
'You must stop talking like that,' she went on, adopting a
motherly tone and giving him a slapon his shoulder. 'Now, bea
good boy and above all, mind you don't miss your step.'
Feeling the slap on his shoulder, Hector was filled withjoy: it
was the seal ofapproval! And as poor MonsieurChabre was still
in trouble, Hector gave a cheerful shout:
'Keep straight on now!'
When they reached the beach. Monsieur Chabre attempted to
give an explanation:
"Pon my word, I was nearly caught. It's my boots,' he
stammered.
But Estelle opened her basket and showed him it, full of
shrimps.
'Did you catch all those?' he exclaimed m amazement. 'You
certainly are a good shrimper!'
'Oh,' she replied with a smile, 'this gentleman showed me the
way.'
The Chabres had only two days left in Pinac. Hector seemed
dismayed and furious, yet humble. As for Monsieur Chabre, he
reviewed his health every morning and seemed puzzled.

Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre 239
'You can't possibly leave without visiting the Castelli rocks,'
Hector said one evening. 'Let's organize an excursion for
tomorrow.'
He explained that the rocks were less than a mile away. They
had been undermined by the waves and hollowed out into caves
which extended for a mile and a halfalong the coast. According
to him, they were completely unspoilt and wild.
'All right, we'll go tomorrow,' said Estelle in the end. 'Are
they difficult to get at?'
'No, there arejust a couple ofspots where you have to wade
through some shallow water, that's all.'
But Monsieur Chabre did not want even to get his feet wet.
Ever since his experience of almost going under during the
shrimping expedition, he had harboured a grudge against thesea
and so he expressed considerable opposition to Hector's sugges-
tion. It was absurd to take riskslikethat: inthefirstplace, hewas
notgoing to climb down to those rocks and risk breaking his leg
jumping around like a goat; ifhe were absolutely compelled to,
he would accompany them on the cliffpath above and even that
he would be doing only as a favour.
To make him relent, Hector had a sudden inspiration.
'I tell you what,' he said, 'you'll be going past the Castelli
semaphore station. Well, you can call in there and buy some
shellfish from thecrew. Theyalwayshavesuperb shellfish which
they practically give away.'
The ex-corn-merchant perked up. 'That's a good idea,' he
replied. 'I'll take a little basket with me and I'll be able to have a
final feast ofshellfish.'
And turning to his wife, he said with a leer: 'Perhaps that'll do
the trick.'
Nextday, they had towaitforlow tidebeforetheysetoffand,
as Estelle was not ready in time, they in fact did not leave until
fiveo'clock. However, Hector assured them that they would not
be caught by the tide. The young woman was wearing cloth
bootees over her bare feet and a very short and slightly raffish-
looking grey linen dress which exposed a slim pairofankles. As
forMonsieurChabre, he wasdressed, mostcorrectlv. in a pairof
white trousers and a long alpaca coat. He had brought his
sunshadeanda littlebasket; hehadtheappearanceofarespectable
middle-class Parisgentleman settingoffon ashoppmuexpediti

'
240 Shellfish for Monsieur Chabre
Reaching thefirst oftherocks was awkward: theyhad to walk
for some distance over quicksands in which their feet sank. The
ex-corn-merchant was soon puffing and blowing.
'All right then, I'll let you go on and I'll go up,' he gasped at
last.
'That'sright, takethatpaththere,'Hectorreplied. 'Ifyoucome
any further, there's no way up. Would you like some help?'
They watched him climb tothetop ofthecliff. Oncethere, he
opened his sunshade and, swinging his basket in the other hand,
called down:
'I'vedoneit, it's muchbetteruphere. Now, don'tdoanything
rash, will you? Anyway, I'll be able to keep an eye on you from
up here.
Hector and Estelle began walking over the rocks. The young
man led the way, leaping from boulder to boulder in his high
boots with the grace and agility of a mountaineer. Estelle
followed intrepidly on the same stones and when he turned to
ask:
'Shall I give you a hand?' she replied:
'Certainly not! Do you take me for a grandmother?'
They had now reached a vast floor ofgranite worn down by
the sea and hollowed out into deep crevasses. It was like the
skeleton of some sea monster whose dislocated vertebrae were
protruding from the sand. In the hollows there was flowing
water and dark seaweed was dangling like strands ofhair. They
continued to leap from stone to stone, pausing now and then to
recover their balance and laughing each time they dislodged a
boulder.
'They're rather tame, your rocks,' said Estelle with a smile.
'They wouldn't be out ofplace in a drawing-room!'
'Just you wait,' retorted Hector. 'You'll see in a minute.'
They had reached anarrowpassage, asort ofgapbetween two
enormous blocks ofstone, and the way through was barred by a
rock-pool, a hole full ofwater.
'I'll never get across that!' the young woman exclaimed.
Hesuggested carrying herbut sheshook her head: she was not
going to let herself be carried again. He then started looking
round for some rocks big enough to make stepping-stones; but
they kept slipping and sinking to the bottom. Finally, losing
patience, she said:

Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre 241
'Give me your hand. I'm going tojump.'
Shejumped short and one foot went into the water and this
made them laugh again. Then, when they had gone through the
passage, she stopped and exclaimed out loud in admiration.
In front ofher lay a large round bay full ofgigantic tumbled
rocks, enormous blocks of stone standing like sentries keeping
guardover thewaves. All along the footofthecliffs theland had
been eroded by storms, leaving behind vast masses of bare
granite, withcreeksandpromontories, unexpectedinletsforming
deep caverns and beaches littered with blackish slabs of marble
looking like large stranded fish. It was like some Cyclopean
town, battered and ravaged by the sea. with its battlements
knocked down, its towers half demolished and its buildings
toppled and lying in heaps ofruins. Hectorshowed Estelleevery
nook and cranny ofthese storm-wrecked ruins. She walked over
sand as fine and yellow as gold dust, with pebbles speckled with
mica glinting in the sun. She clambered over fallen rocks where
she had, at times, to hang on with both hands to prevent herself
trom slipping into the crevasses. She went through natural
porticosandtriumphalarchwayscurvedlikethose mRomanesque
churchesorsoaringpointedarcheslikethoseofGothiccathedrals.
She scrambled down into cool deserted hollows a good dozen
yards square, charmed by the blue thistles and dark green
succulent plantsstandingoutin contrasttothedark grey wallsof
the rockface on which they grew and delighted by the friendly
little brown seabirds fluttering within her reach as they repeated
theirchirpylittlecalls. And whatamazed her most wasthat, each
timesheturned round, shecould seetheever-presentbluelineof
the Atlantic stretching out, majestic and calm, between every
block ofrock.
'Ah, thereyouare!' cried MonsieurChabre from thetopofthe
cliff. I was worried because I had lost sight of you. . . Aren't
these heights terrifying?'
He was standing a good six yards back from theedge, shading
himselfunder his parasol with his little basket hitched over his
arm. He added:
It's coming in fast, be careful!'
There's plenty oftime, never fear." replied Hector.
Meanwhile. Estelle had sat down and was gazing, speechless
with admiration, at the vast horizon. In front ofher three round

242 Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre
pillars ofgranite, made smooth by the waves, were standing like
thegiantcolumnsofaruinedtemple. Behindthem, bathedinthe
golden half-light ofthe evemng, theopen sea spread out, a royal
blue speckled with gold. In the far distance she could see a
brilliant white dot. a tiny sail skimming like a seagull over the
surface ofthe water. The calm ofevening was already reaching
outoverthe palebluesky. Neverhadshefeltsooverpoweredby
such an all-pervading tenderness and exquisitely voluptuous
delight.
Lets go,' said Hector, gently touching her arm.
Shegaveastartandstoodup, fulloflanguorandacquiescence.
That little house with the mast is the semaphore, isn't it?'
called Monsieur Chabre. 'I'm going to get some shellfish, I'll
catch you up in a minute.'
Then, in an attempt to shake off the listlessness that had
overtakenher, Estellesetoffrunninglikeachild, leapingoverthe
puddles asshemadetowards thesea, seizedby a suddenwhimto
climb to the top ofa heap ofrocks which would be completely
surrounded by water at high tide. And when, after scrambling
laboriously through the gaps in the rocks, she finally reached the
top, shehoistedherselfon to thehighest pointand was delighted
to see that she could dominate the whole sweep ofthe tragically
devastated coastline. She stood outlined in the pure sea air, her
skirt fluttering like a flag in the breeze.
As she came down, she peered into every little crevice as she
passed. In the smallest cranny, she could see tiny slumbering
pools whose limpid surfaces were reflecting the sky like shining
mirrors. On the bottom, emerald-green seaweed was growing,
like some romantic forest. The only living creatures were large
black crabswhichleaptuplikefrogsbeforedisappearingwithout
evenstirringupthewater. Theyoung womanhadadreamylook
inhereyesasifshehadbeengranted aglimpseintosecretregions
ofa vast, mysterious and happy land.
Whentheyhadcomebacktothefootofthecliff, shenoticedthat
her compamon had filled his handkerchiefwith some limpets.
'They'reforyourhusband,' hesaid. 'I'lltake them up tohim.'
At that very moment, a disconsolate Monsieur Chabre came
into sight.
'They hadn't even got a mussel at the semaphore,' he shouted
down to them. 'You see, I was right not to want to come.'

Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre 243
But on seeing Hector's limpets, he cheered up; and he was
staggered at the young man's agility as he clambered up by a
track known only to himself, over a cliff-face that seemed
completelysmooth rock. His descentwaseven moreimpressive.
'It's nothing, really,' Hectorsaid. 'It's as easy as going upstairs
once you know where the steps are.'
Monsieur Chabre now suggested turning back: the sea was
beginning to look threatening. So he begged his wife at least to
find an easy way up to the top ofthe cliff. Hector laughed and
repliedthattherewasnowaysuitableforladies; they wouldnow
have to go on to the end. In any case, they hadn't yet visited the
caves. MonsieurChabrewascompelledtocontinuealong thetop
ofthe cliffs by himself. As the sun was now much lower in the
sky, he closed his parasol and used it as a walking-stick. In his
other hand, he held his basketful oflimpets.
'Are you feeling tired?' Hector asked Estelle gently.
'A little bit,' she replied and took hold ofthe arm which he
offered. However, she was not tired; but her delicious feeling of
languor was slowly spreading through her whole body and the
emotion she had felt at seeing the young man hanging from the
cliff-face had left her trembling inwardly. They were walking
slowly over a beach composed ofbroken shells which crunched
under their feet like a gravel garden path. Both had again fallen
silent. Heshowedhertwowideopeningsintherock: theMonk's
HoleandtheCat'sGrotto. Astheywalkedonoveranotherbeach
offinesand, they lookedateachother, still withoutexchanginga
word, and smiled. The tide was now coming in, rippling gently
over the sand; but they did not hear it. Up above, Monsieur
Chabre had started calling to them; but they did not hear him
either.
'It's sheer madness!' the ex-corn-merchant was shouting,
waving his sunshadeand swinging his basketoflimpets. 'Estelle!
Monsieur Hector! Listento me! You're going to becut off! Your
feet are already getting wet.'
But they did not feel the cool water lapping round their feet.
'What's the matter with him?' the young woman muttered Jt
last.
'Oh, it's you, Monsieur Chabre,' Hector called out. 'There's
no need to worry. We've onlv got the Lady's Cave to look .it

244 Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre
Monsieur Chabre made a despairing gesture and repeated:
'It's sheer madness! You'll both be drowned.'
They were no longer paying attention... To avoid the rising
tide, they went along the foot ofthe cliffand finally came to the
Lady's Cave. It was a grotto hollowed out of a vast block of
granite thatjutted out towards the sea. Its roof, extremely high
and wide, was shaped like a dome. Storms had polishedits walls
until they shonelike agateandthepinkandblueveinsinthedark
rock formed magnificent patterns ofarabesques like the barbaric
handiwork ofprimitive artists decorating a grandiose bathroom
for a sea-goddess. The gravelly floor ofthe cave, still wet, was
glittering like a bed ofprecious stones while at the far end there
wasasofterbedofdryyellowsand, sopaleastobealmostwhite.
It was here that Estelle sat down to inspect the grotto.
'It's the sort ofplace you could live in,' she murmured.
ButnowHectoratlastseemedtobecomeawareofthetideand
his face assumed a look ofdismay.
'Oh my goodness, we're caught! The sea's cut us off! We're
going to have to wait for two hours
He went out and looked up at Monsieur Chabre who was
standing on top ofthe cliff, just above the grotto. He told him
that they were cut off.
'What did I tell you?' Monsieur Chabre cried triumphantly.
'Butyou refusedtolistentome, didn'tyou?Isthereanydanger?'
'None at all,' Hector replied. 'The tide only comes fifteen or
twenty feet into the cave. The only thing is that we shall have to
wait a couple ofhours before we can get out. There's nothing to
be alarmed at.'
Monsieur Chabre was annoyed: so they wouldn't be back by
dinner-time and he was already feeling hungry! It really was a
mad sort ofouting! Then he sat down, grumbling, on the short
grass, placinghissunshadeonhisleftandhisbasketoflimpetson
his right.
'Well, I'm going to have to wait, then,' he called. 'Go back to
my wife and make sure she doesn't catch cold.'
Back in the cave, Hector sat down beside Estelle. After a
moment, silently, he ventured to reach out and take hold ofher
hand; she did not try to draw it away. She sat looking into the
distance. Dusk was falling and the light of the dying sun was
veiled by a gentle haze. On the horizon, the sky was taking on a

Shellfishfor Monsieur Chabre 245
tender tinge of deepest red and the sea grew slowly darker,
stretching out with not a soul in sight. The tide crept gently into
thecave, quietlylapping overtheglittering shingleand murmur-
ing a promise ofexquisite sea-pleasures with its disturbing salty
tang ofdesire.
'I love you, Estelle,' Hector said, smothering her hands in
kisses.
Choking with emotion, she madeno reply, as though uplifted
on the rising tide. She was by now half-lying on the bed offine
sand, lookinglikesomesea-nymph, caughtunawaresandalready
at his mercy.
Monsieur Chabre's voice abruptly broke in, faint and hollow:
'Aren't you hungry? I'm ravenous! Fortunately I've got my
penknife, so I'll have a first instalment ofmy limpets.'
'I love you, Estelle,' said Hectoragain, taking herin his arms.
The night was dark and the pale sea lit up the sky. At the
mouth of the grotto, a plaintive murmur was rising from the
water while a last gleam oflight deserted the top ofthe domed
roof. The sea rippled and a scent offruitfulness was hanging in
theair. SlowlyEstelle'sheadsankonto Hector'sshoulderandon
the evening air the breeze carried away a murmur ofsighs.
Up above, by the light of the stars, Monsieur Chabre was
methodically chewing away at his limpets and giving himself
indigestion as he ate the whole lot, without any bread.
Nine months after her return to Paris, the lovely Madame
Chabre gave birth to a bouncing boy. A delighted Monsieur
Chabre took Dr Guiraud aside and said proudly:
'It was the limpets that did the trick, I'm absolutely convinced
ofit! I ateawholebasketfulofthemoneevening, in very peculiar
circumstances, by the way. Anyway, never mind the details.
doctor, but I never thought shellfish could havesuch rcmarkablc
eflfects.'

ABSENCE MAKES THE HEART
GROW FONDER
SOMETIMES, ashesatbesidethesea, scanningtheblankhorizon,
visionsofhis pastwould flitthroughJacquesDamour'smind: the
hardships ofthe siege, the savage fighting with the Commune
and the final brutal wrench which tore him from his home, to
land up, broken and bewildered, in this faraway Pacificisland of
Noumea.*Thiswasnorecollectionofpleasanttimes, ofloveand
affection, but the dull brooding ofan enfeebled mind returning,
again and again, to certain unchangeable, precise facts that alone
stood out amidst the general collapse ofeverything.
At the ageoftwenty-sixJacques had married Felicie, a tall and
beautiful girl ofeighteen, the daughter ofa greengrocer in the
Villette quarter ofParis, from whom he had rented a room. He
himselfwas a metalworker who could earn up to twelve francs a
day. At first, she had continued her trade ofdressmaking but as
they had a son almost immediately, she had no time to do
anything but feed him and keep house. The son, Eugene,
flourished; and nine years later a daughter Louise arrived who
wasforalongtimesosicklythattheyspentagreatdealofmoney
on medicine and doctors. However, they were not an unhappy
family. True, Damourhadanoccasional bingeonpayday; buthe
behaved not unreasonably, went offto bed ifhe'd had too much
to drink and returned to work next day, quite prepared to admit
that he'd been a bit ofa fool. By the age oftwelve Eugene had
learnt how to handle a vice and was earning his keep almost
beforehe had learnt to read and write. Felicie was very clean and
tidy and a clever and economical housewife, a trifle stingy her
husbandwouldsometimessay, when sheservedvegetables more
often than meat so as to be able to put a little money on one side
for a rainy day. This was the happiest period oftheir marriage.
They lived in the Rue des Envierges in Menilmontant,* in a
three-bedroomed flat consisting of the couple's bedroom, a
bedroom for Eugene, and a dining-room which also served as
Jacques' workroom, aswellasthekitchenandaclosetforLouise.
Theflatwassituatedatthefarendofthecourtyardofasmallapart-
ment block; but it was still light and airy enough because their

Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder 247
windows looked out on to a demolition yard where cartloads of
builders' rubble and old timber were dumped all day long.
When the Franco-Prussian war broke out, the Damours had
been living in the Rue des Envierges for some ten years.
Although by now nearly forty, Felicie had retained her youthful
good looks, although she had put on some weight; and with her
plump shoulders and hips, she was acknowledged to be the
handsomest woman in the neighbourhood. Jacques on the other
hand had become wizened and the eight years' difference in age
madehimlook prematurelyold. Louise, nolongersicklybutstill
delicate, was a skinny little girl who took after her father.
Eugene, now nineteen years old, was tall and broadbacked like
his mother. It was a very united family, apart from the odd
payday evening when father and son lingered too long in
wineshops. Then Felicie would sulk at the thought of good
moneybeingwastedandonceortwicetheyevenhadaset-to;but
thiswasreallyquiteharmless,justthefaultofdrinkingtoomuch.
There wasn't a more stable family in the whole block and they
were cited as examples byeverybody. When the Prussians began
their march on Paris, they had savings ofmore than a thousand
francs, a fine achievement for a working-class couple who had
brought up two children.
So the first few months ofthe siege were not too bad. In the
dining-room, even iftheworkbenchlay idle, therewas still meat
andwhitebreadtoeat. Damourwaseveninapositiontohelpout
aless fortunateneighbour, a strappingyoung fellow by thename
ofBerru, a housepainter who was starving and whom Damour
was kind enough to invite to supper occasionally. Berru was a
wag and always ready to crack ajoke, so much so that he even
managed to disarm Felicie, despite her shock and concern at
seeingallthetastiestmorselsdisappearintohiscapaciousmaw. In
the evening they played cards and abused the Prussians. Berru
talked patriotically ofdigging mines and underground tunnels,
rightoutintothecountryasfarasChatillon and Montretout, and
blowing theirgun emplacementssky-high. Then he'd comeback
to the government, a bunch ofcowards who wanted to open the
city gates to Bismarck, so as to put Henri V* on the French
throne. He would shrug his shoulders contemptuously 11 that
sort of treacherous republicanism. Republicanism, indeed' And
with hiselbows on the table, puffing awav it Ins CUtty, he would

248 Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder
expound his own ideas on government, with brotherhood and
freedom and everybody having lots of money, justice and
equality for all, from top to bottom.
'Just like '93,'* he'd add firmly, without the least idea ofwhat
it meant.
Damour listened solemnly. He too was a republican because
from earliest childhood he had heard everyone around him
asserting that one day the Republic would bring the triumph of
theworkeranduniversalhappiness. Buthehadnofirmideahow
thiswouldbeachievedandthiswaswhyhelistenedsoattentively
to Berru; and he found his reasoning sound: for sure, the
Republic would come about as Berru predicted. He would grow
heated and proclaim that if the whole of Paris, women and
children as well, had marched against the government in
Versailles, singing the 'Marseillaise', the Prussians would have
been thrashed, the provinces would have healed their squabbles
and a government ofthe people been set up which would have
guaranteed a private income for every citizen in France.
'Look out,' Felicie would say distrustfully. 'That Berru of
yours will land you in trouble. Give him food ifyou like, since
you seem to want to. But let him go and be heroic on his own.'
She, too, was a republican; her father had died on a barricade
during the revolution of1848; but instead ofstirring her up, this
memory of her father made her want to remain calm and
reasonable. Sheused to saythatifshewerethepeopleherwayof
forcing the government to showjustice would be to be on her
best behaviour. Berru's speechifying made her cross and
frightened because he seemed to her to be a rabble-rouser. She
could see her husband changing, adopting attitudes and using
words of which she disapproved. But she was still more con-
cernedbythegrim andeagerlook on Eugene's faceashelistened
to Berru. In the evening, when Louise had dropped offto sleep
with her head on the table, Eugene would sit slowly sipping a
little glass ofspirits, notsayingaword andkeepinghiseyesfixed
on the housepainter who never failed to bring back with him
some extraordinary story of treachery in the capital: the
Bonapartist supporters were sending signals to the Prussians
from Montmartre; sacks offlour and barrels ofgunpowder were
being tipped into the Seine so that the Germans could win more
quickly.

Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder 249
'Whatalotofrubbish!' Feliciewouldsaytohersonafter Berru
had finallyleft. 'Don't letyourselfbeledastraybyallthatgossip,
will you? You know perfectly well he's lying.'
'I know what's what,' Eugene replied with a frightening
gesture.
By the middle ofDecember, the Damours had used up their
entiresavings. Therewereannouncementsissuedallthetimeofthe
Prussians suffering heavy defeats in the provinces, ofa successful
sortie which was going to relieve Paris, and so the family were
not at first too greatly alarmed, hoping against hope that work
would again become available. Felicie was performing miracles
and they managed to live from hand to mouthon the black siege
bread which only little Louise was unable to stomach. Then, in
Felicie's words, Jacques and Eugene finally took leave of their
senses. With nothing to do all day, unable to follow theirnormal
routine and flabby from lack of exercise now that they had
abandoned their workbench, they were worried and bewildered,
withtheirheadsfullofwildandbloodthirstyfantasies. Theyhad,
in fact, joined an infantry battalion; but, like many others, this
battalionhadneverventuredbeyondthefortificationsandsothey
spent all their time in the barrack-room, playing cards. It was in
this environment that Damour, with an empty stomach and sick
at heart at the thought of the suffering at home, reached the
conclusion, listening to reports from various fellowsoldiers, that
the Versailles government had sworn to exterminate the people
and takeoverthe Republic. Berru was right: everyone knew that
Henri V was living out at Saint-Germain in a house with a white
flag hoisted over it. And that must be stopped. One fine day,
those swine who were starving the workers and letting them be
shelled merely so as to leave the field free for the priests and the
aristocracy, would get a taste of their own medicine. When
Jacquesandhissoncamebackhomeinafeverofexcitementtrom
the wild talk they hadheardoutside, all they could dowas totalk
oftaking their rifles and going out to shoot someone. Pale as a
sheet, Felicie listenedin silence; she was having to look after little
Louise, who had fallen ill again because ofthe poor food.
However, the siege came to an end, the armistice was signed
and the Prussians marched down the Cihamps-Elysccs. In the Rue
del Envierges, they began eating whitebread again, which Feline
had herself gone over to fetch from Saint-Denis. But it \wn .i

250 Absence.Makes the Heart Grow Fonder
gloomy meal. Eugenehad gonetolook atthePrussiansandgave
detailsofwhathehadseen. Brandishinghisforkinfury, Damour
shouted that all the generals ought to have been guillotined,
whereupon Felicie lost her temper and forcibly took his fork
away from him. During the following days, as therewas still no
work being offered, Jacques decided to do some on his own
account:hestillhadafewpiecesofcast-irontorch-holdersthathe
couldfinishoffin thehopeofselling them privately. Eugenewas
very restless and gave up after working for only an hour. As for
Berru, he had not been seen since the armistice; no doubthe had
discovered better free meals elsewhere. One morning, however,
heturnedupinastateofgreatexcitementandtoldthemhow, on
the previous night, the army had tried to get back the guns on
Montmartre*buthadbeenfoiledbecausethesoldiershadrefused
to fire. All the same, barricades were being set up everywhere.
Thetriumphofthepeoplewasathandandhehadcometorecruit
Damour, for he needed all the good citizens he could find. To
Felicie'sgreatdismay,Jacquesimmediatelydroppedhistoolsand
left. The Commune had begun.
The fighting continued during March, April and May. When
Damourcamehometiredoutandhiswifebeggedhimtostay, he
would reply:
'What about my one and a halffrancs? How else can we get
bread?'
Felicie looked away: the only money to buy food was the one
and ahalffrancseachreceivedbyJacques andhissonasmembers
ofthe National Guard, plus an occasional allocation ofwine and
saltmeat. Moreover, Damourwasquitesurehewasin theright.
He was shooting at the men ofVersailles in the same way as he
would have shot at Prussians, convinced that he was fighting in
defence ofthe Republic and to bring about the happiness ofthe
people. Following on the hardships and exhaustion ofthe siege,
theturmoil ofcivil warhad thrown him into a nightmareoffear
atthe prospect oftyrannical government and he sawhimselfas a
hero, however obscure, in the struggle for freedom and was
determined, if necessary, to die in its defence. He was not
concerned with any finetheoretical considerations ofcommunal-
istic ideas. In his eyes, the Commune was merely the long-
prophesied Golden Age, the beginning of universal happiness.
Meanwhile, he held even more obstinately to the belief that

Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder 251
somewhere, beitin Saint-GermainorVersailles, therewasaking
preparingtosetup anew Inquisitionand bring back feudal rights
were he allowed to return to Paris. In his own home, he would
not have hurt a fly; but on his barricade, he was eliminating the
forces oforder without the faintest qualms. When he came back
home harassed, covered in sweat and black with gunpowder, he
would spend hours at little Louise's bedside, listening to her
breathing. Feliciehadabandonedanyattempttorestrainhimbut,
like the far-sighted woman she was, quietly and calmly waited
for the eruption to stop.
However, she did once venture to point out that Berru, the big
fellowwhokickedupsuchafuss, wasn'tsostupidastoputhimself
inthefiringline. He'dbeencleverenoughtogethimselfacushyjob
in the commissariat, which did not prevent him, each time he
appearedinuniformwithplumesandbadgesofrank, fromstoking
Damour'sideas withinflammatorytalkofsticking all theministers
againstthewall, aswellastheParliamentandthewholedamnedlot
once they had got to Versailles and caught them.
'Why doesn't he do it himselfinstead ofegging other people
on?' Felicie would ask.
But Damour would reply:
'Don't say that. I'm doing my duty. So much the worse for
those who aren't doing theirs!'
One morning towards the end ofApril, they brought Eugene
backtotheRuedes Enviergesonastretcher. Hehadbeenhitbya
bullet full in the chest, at Moulineaux.* He died as they were
carrying him upstairs. When Damour came home that evening,
hesaw Felicie standing silently beside theirdead son's body. The
shock felled him and as he sat sobbing on the floor, propped up
against the wall, she looked at him without saying a word
because she could find nothing to say and had she spoken it
would have been to scream:
'It's all your fault!'
Shehad shut thedoorofLouise'sclosetand was moving about
quietlyinordernottoalarmher. WhenJacqueseventually rosefto
his feet, he stood for a long time staring at a photograph of
Eugene fixed in a corner oftheir mirror, which his son had had
taken wearing the uniform ofthe National Guard.Jacques took .)
pen and wrote along the bottom: '1 will avenge you', adding the
date and signing it. This relieved some ofhis grief

252 Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder
Next day, in a hearse draped with large red flags, Eugene's
body wastakentothecemeteryofPere-Lachaise, followedbyan
immense crowd. His father walked behind, bareheaded, and the
sight ofthose blood-red flags, which made the dark wood ofthe
hearselookevendarker, filledhisheartwithsavageanger. Felicie
had stayed behind in the Rue des Envierges to keep Louise
company. That very evening, Damour was back on the barri-
cades, shooting to kill.
Finally, the May fighting began. The Versailles troops had
forced their way into Paris. For two whole daysJacques did not
return home, defending each barricade amidst blazing buildings
and retreating as his battalion retreated. On the morning ofthe
thirddayhereturnedtotheRuedesEnviergeswithhisclothesin
tatters, bemused and reeling like a drunken man. Hehad no idea
whatwashappeningbuthadmerelykeptonfiringintothepallof
smoke because that was his duty. Felicie helped him to undress
and was washing his hands with a wet towel when one ofthe
neighbours came in with the news that the Communards were
still holding out in the cemetery of Pere-Lachaise and that the
Versailles troops were unable to dislodge them.
'I must go and help,' he said simply.
He dressed and picked up his rifle. In his bewilderment he
hoped that he might die on his son's grave but these last
remaining Communards werenot defending thebareupperlevel
of the cemetery where Eugene was lying at rest. In any case,
Jacques was not even able to get that far: shells were bursting all
around, splintering the tall gravestones. Amongst a clump of
elms, hiding behind the gleaming white marble headstones, a
handful of National Guardsmen were still firing their last few
rounds at the soldiers whose red trousers could be seen as they
moved up to the attack. Damour arrivedjust in time to be taken
prisoner. Thirty-sevenofhiscomrades wereshotonthespotand
it was only by a miracle that he himselfwas not also summarily
executed; perhapsthesoldierssparedhimbecausehisriflehadnot
been fired and his hands were not battle-stained, since his wife
had just washed them. Anyway, his state of exhaustion and
bewildermentwassuchthathewasneverabletorecalltheevents
of the next few days, which were just one long confused
nightmare. He spent hour upon hour shut up in dimly lit places
orwalking, readytodrop, inthesun;beingshoutedatandbeaten

Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder 253
up; marching through gaping crowds. When he at last emerged
from this delirium, he found himselfin prison in Versailles.
Felicie, stillpaleandcalm, cametovisithim. Aftershehadtold
him that Louise was better, they did not speak, forneither could
find anything to say. As she was leaving, in order to cheer him,
she mentioned that people were taking up his case and were
hoping to get him out. He asked:
'What news ofBerru?'
'Oh, Berru's all right,' she replied. 'He made offthree days
before the Versailles troops came in. No one will even bother
him.'
A month later, Damour was on his way to New Caledonia,
having been sentenced to deportation. As he had never held any
sortofrank in the National Guard, he might havebeen acquitted
hadhenotcalmly confessedthathehad beeninthefighting from
the very first day. At their final meeting, he said to Felicie:
'I'll be back. Wait for me. Look after Louise.'
And amongst all his confused memories, it was those last
words that stayed most plainly in his mind as he sat brooding on
the beach and staring moodily at the empty horizon. Sometimes
he was surprised by nightfall. In the distance, a bright speck still
lingered, like the wake ofa ship gleaming against the gathering
gloom, and it seemed to him that heought to stand up and walk
out over the waves to follow that white trail on the sea, since he
had promised he would return.
Damour was a well-behaved deportee. He had found employ-
ment in Noumea and the authorities held out hopes that he would
bepardoned. He wasavery gentle person wholoved playing with
children. He had lost all interest in politics and spent much ofhis
time alone, seeing very littleofhis companions in misfortune. Ihe
only fault that could be found in him was the occasional bout of
drinkingandeveninhiscupsheremainedgood-tempered, weeping
like a little child and going away to sleep it offofhis own accord.
Then, one day when he seemed certain to be pardoned sooner or
later, hesuddenlydisappeared and people wereamazed to hearthat
he had escaped with four companions
During his two years on the island, Jacques had received .1

254 Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder
numberofletters fromhis wife, regularlyatfirst, thenlessoften,
until finally they had stopped completely. He himselfhad been
writing quite regularly. Three months passed withoutanynews.
Then the thought that his pardon might well take another two
yearstocomethroughhadsuddenlythrownhimintodesperation
and he had risked everything in one of those ill-considered
decisions that you regret the very next day. A week later, some
milesalongthecoast, theyfoundasmashedboatandthecorpses,
already decomposed, of three of the fugitives, including, they
thought, thatofJacquesDamour; itwashisheightandhadalong
beard. After a cursory inquest, the formalities were concluded
and adeathcertificatewasissuedandsenttoFranceattherequest
ofhis widow, who had been kept informed by the authorities.
The press took up the story and a dramatic accountoftheescape
and its tragicoutcomewas published innewspapers allroundthe
world.
But Damour was not dead. He had been mistaken for one of
his companions, the more surprisingly since the two men were
not at all alike, their only similarity being the length of their
beards. Damour and the fourth man, who had survived almost
by a miracle, parted company as soon as they reached British
territory* and never saw each other again. This other man no
doubt died from yellow fever, to which Damour himselfvery
nearly succumbed. His first thought had been to writea letter to
his wifebut, having readin a newspaperan accountofhis escape
and subsequentdeath, itseemedto him tobeunwisetodosofor
the letter might be intercepted, thereby giving the game away.
Wouldn'titbefarbetterforhimto remaindeadintheeyesofthe
world? Nobody would then bother about him any more, he
couldfindhiswaybacktoFrancewithouttroubleandthereawait
theamnestybeforegivinghimselfup. Atthispointhewasstruck
down by a violent attack ofyellow fever and spent weeks in a
hospital situated miles from anywhere.
Whenhe finally became convalescent,Jacques was in a stateof
utterlethargyinwhichheremainedformanyweeks;hisstrength
andenergyhad desertedhim;itwasasifhisfeverhadcompletely
emptied him ofall willpower. He had no wish to do anything
since everything seemed equally pointless. His memories of
Felicie and Louise had grown dim; he could still see them in his
mind'seyebutonlyasifinthefardistance, inasortoffog, where

Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder 255
he sometimes had difficulty in recognizing them. Once his
strength had returned, he would, ofcourse, go back to them.
. .
But then, when he was finally up and about, he thought of
another plan: before going back to his wife and daughter, he
would make his fortune. What could he do in Paris? He'd
probablystarve; he'dhavetogobacktohis workbenchandthere
was no guarantee, even, that he would find work, for he could
tell that he had aged terribly. On the other hand, ifhe went to
America, he'dpickupa fewhundredthousand francsinthespace
ofweeks; indeed, heconsidered this amodestsum in viewofthe
fantastic tales ofmillions buzzing all around. On one gold field,
the story went, everyone, including the humblest navvy, had
been driving about in his coach and six within six months. So
Jacques set about replanning his life: he would return to France
with his hundred thousand francs, buy a little house in the
Vincennes district and live happily with Felicie and Louise on
threeor fourthousand francs a year, a forgotten man, well ridof
politics. One month later, Jacques Damour was in the United
States.
There followed a life of random adventure, of confused ups
and downs that were both strange and banal. He plumbed the
depths ofpoverty and climbed within an inch ofthe heights of
wealth. On three occasions he thought he had at last reached his
target but the hundred thousand francs melted in his hands; he
wasrobbedorelse, inonefinalgamble, hewasruined. Inaword,
he suffered much, worked hard, and ended up without a shirt to
his back. After roaming the world, he landed up in England and
from there moved across to Brussels, almost on the French
frontier. However, he now had no thought ofreturning home.
As soon as he had arrived in the States, he had at last written to
Felicie but had received no reply to his three letters. Either they
werebeing intercepted orelsehis wifehad left Parisor was dead.
A year later, he had made another equally vain attempt but this
tunc, in order not to give himself away, he wrote under an
assumed name, purporting to deal with an imaginary piece of
business and relying on the fact that Felicie would recognize his
handwriting and understand the position. This complete lack ol
response had had the effect ofdulling his memory: be was dc.\J.
alonein the world, andsonothing wasofany furtherimportance
For more than a year he worked underground in a i oal-mine,

256 Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder
away from the sunlight, a nobody living only to eat and sleep.
One evening, sitting in a tavern, he heard a man say that an
amnesty* had been granted and all the former members ofthe
Commune were making their way back to France. This news
roused him from his lethargy and made him want to leave with
his old comrades to return to Paris, to his home. And when he
found himself in the train, ideas began to stir in his mind; he
started thinking that ifhe should succeed in finding Felicie and
Louise, hemightoncemorebeabletoliveanormallife, winback
hisplaceinthesun. Hopewasbornagain: hewasafreemannow
and could look for them openly. In the end, he even found
himselfimagining them sitting quietly in the Rue des Envierges,
with thetablelaidjust as ifthey wereexpecting him. Everything
would be explained, it would all have been a simple misunder-
standing; he'd go to theTown Hall, tell them hisname, andhe'd
return to his old family life.
The Gare du Nord in Paris was packed with a tumultuous
crowd. As soon as the returning ex-Communards appeared,
there was a tremendous burst of cheering and, amid scenes of
extraordinary enthusiasm, men started waving their hats and
screaming a name. For a moment, Damour failed to understand
andwasafraidthatallthesepeoplehadcometoboohim;butthen
he recognized thename which the cheering crowd was shouting:
it was that ofa famous erstwhile member ofthe Commune who
happened to be on the same train, a celebrated exile who was
being greeted with loud applause. Damour saw him walk past,
greatly moved, with tears in his eyes at the warmth of his
welcome; he had put on a lot ofweight. When the hero got into
his cab, the crowd thoughtofunhitching thehorseand pulling it
themselves. Everybody wasjostling and pushing as the wave of
humanitysurgedintotheRuedeLafayetteandforalongtimethe
cabcouldbeseen moving slowlyforwardabovetheseaofheads,
like a triumphal chariot. Squashed and jostled by the crowd,
Damour had great difficulty himselfin reaching the outer boule-
vards. Nobody paid theslightestattention tohim. Hethoughtof
all his sufferings, Versailles, the deportation, Noumea, and
gulped with bitterness.
But oncehe reached the outer boulevards, his mood softened.
He forgot the past; it wasjust as ifhe was bringing back work

Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder 257
from Paris and going quietly home to the Rue des Envierges. Ten
yearsofhislifetelescopedinhismindintosucharichandconfusing
pattern that it seemed to him nothing more than part of the
pavement along which he was walking. All the same, he did feel
some surprise as he found himself reverting so easily to his old
habits. Surelytheouterboulevardsshould bewider?Hestoppedto
readsomeshopsigns, surprisedtofindthemstillthere. Insteadofthe
undilutedpleasurehehadanticipatedatwalkingthroughthiscorner
ofParis which he had missed so much during his exile, he felt a
mixtureoftenderness, fullofechoesoflove, andasecretanxiety, the
anxietyoffacing theunknown, at thesightofall these familiarold
scenes. Ashecamenearerto theRuedes Envierges, this uneasiness
grew stronger. He could feel his determination weakening and an
increasing desirenotto goany further, as ifhewasexpectingsome
disaster.
Whycomebackatall?Whatwashedoinghere?
Whenhefinallyreached theRuedes Envierges, hewalked past
the house three times before plucking up the courage to go in.
The coal-merchant opposite had disappeared; in its place was a
fruiterer's shop and the woman standing in the doorway seemed
so hale and hearty, so aggressively established on her own
territory, that he did not dare question her, as he had at first
contemplated doing. In the end, he decided to take the risk and
made straight for the concierge's lodge. How often in the past
had he turned left at the end ofthe little alleyway and tapped on
the little pane ofglass . . .
'May I speak to Madame Damour, please?'
'Never heard ofher. No one ofthat name here!'
. .
He stood frozen to the spot. Instead ofhis former concierge,
who had been enormous, he was facing a cantankerous, wizened
little woman who sat watching him suspiciously.
'Madame Damour lived here, at the back, ten years ago.'
'Ten years ago!' exclaimed theconcierge. 'Well, there's a lotof
water flowed under the bridge since then! We've only been here
sinceJanuary.'
Perhaps she left an address?'
'No. Never heard ofher.'
And when he persisted, she became angry and threatened to
call her husband.
'Stop spying about the house, will you? We gel .» k* o! people
like you, trying to get in.'

258 Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder
He went red with embarrassment, stammered an apology and
retreated, ashamedofhis tatteredtrousersanddirtyoldtunic. He
started to go offdown the street with a hang-dog look but then
retraced his steps, unwilling to leave like that: it would be too
heartbreaking a farewell. Surely there'd be someone to take pity
on him and give him some sort ofinformation? He straightened
up and started to look more closely at the shop-windows, trying
to orientate himself. In these poor districts, where people are
beingturnedoutontothestreetsallthetime, aftertenyearsthere
wouldbehardlyanyoneleft whomhehadknown. Inanycase, he
was becoming wary, even ashamed, and a kind offearofpeople
was making him scared ofbeing recognized. However, coming
back up the street, he at last caught sight ofsome familiar faces,
thetobacconist, agrocer, alaundressandthebakerwhereheused
to buy their bread. For a good quarter ofan hour, he walked
hesitantly up and down in front ofthese shops, sweating in an
agonyofindecisionandunabletobringhimselftoact. Intheend,
with a sinking heart, he decided to try the baker's wife, a sleepy
sort of woman who always looked as pale as if she had been
dipped in a bag of flour. She looked at him impassively from
behind her counter. She certainly didn't recognize him with his
long, bristly beard and his face and bald pate tanned by the sun.
With his confidence somewhat restored, as hehandedherhisfive
centimes for his loafofbread, he enquired diffidently:
'Don'tyouhavea MadameDamourasoneofyourcustomers?
She has a little daughter.'
The baker's wife thought for a moment and then said
uncertainly:
'Oh well, I may have had in the past, but it must have been a
long time ago... I can't honestly remember. I see so many
people.'
For the timebeing, hehad to be content with this reply but he
went back on other days and plucked up courage to ask more
people. Everywhere he met the same lack of concern and the
same forgetfulness; and any information he did succeed in
eliciting was so contradictory that he was more confused than
ever. In general, thereseemed little doubt that Feliciehadleftthe
district two years after he had been deported, in fact at the very
timehewas making his escape. Nobodyknew heraddress; some
mentioned Gros-Caillou, others thought Bercy.* Nobody even

Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder 259
remembered little Louise. So that was the end ofthat: and one
evening, as he sat down on a bench on the outer boulevards,
Jacques burst into tears and decided to abandon his search. But
what was going to becomeofhim? Paris seemed to havenothing
to offerand the few sous he had saved up and which had enabled
him to return to Paris were fast running out. For a moment, he
thought ofgoing back to Belgium and his coal-mine where he
had lived and worked in the dark without any thought of the
past, like a contented animal hiddeninthe gloomy bowels ofthe
earth. Nevertheless, he stayed on, hungry and wretched, for he
could not find any work. No employer would look at him: he
wastooold, evenifhewasonlyfifty-five. Hissufferingsoverthe
last ten years had reduced him to skin and bone; he looked
seventy. So he prowled round like a wolf, visiting all the
monumentsburnt downby theCommune andtrying to find the
sortofjob that you offer children or cripples. A builderworking
at the Hotel de Ville kept promising him employment to look
aftertheirtools;buthewastakingalongtimetokeephispromise
and meanwhileJacques was starving.
Oneday as he was standing watching the waterflowing under
the Pont Notre-Dame,* with the dazed look of some poor
miserable wretch contemplating suicide, he suddenly drew back
from the parapet with such a violent movement that he nearly
knocked down a passer-by, a tall fellow wearing a white smock,
who started swearing at him:
'Look out, you clumsy devil!'
Damour'sjawdroppedinsurpriseand hestoodstaringat him.
'Berru!' he shouted.
It was indeed Berru, a Berru who had changed only to his
advantage; helooked youngerand bursting with health. Damour
had often thought of his former comrade since his return: but
how could he hope to find a man who had the habit ofdoing a
midnight flit every fortnight or so? Meanwhile, the housepainter
was also staring wide-eyed at Damour and when the latter gave
his name in a trembling voice, he refused to believe him:
'It can't be! You're dead! You're pulling my leg!'
Finally, he recognized him and started talking in such a loud
voice that all the passers-by began to look round and stare
'But you're dead!. . . Well, I never did!. , , You shouldn't have
people on like that!. Honest, are vou reallv alive'-'
, ,

260 Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder
Damour spoke to him in a low voice, urging him to be quiet,
and eventually Berru, who was in fact quite enjoying the
situation, seized Jacques by the arm and took him off to a
wineshop in the Rue St-Martin, meanwhile still plying him with
questions. He wanted to know the truth.
'I'll tell you all about it in a minute,' Jacques said when they
were sitting at a table in a private room. 'But first ofall, what
about Felicie?'
Berru looked at him dumbfounded. Then he said:
'What do you mean?'
'I mean where is she? Have you got her address?'
Berru's amazement was becoming plainer. He said slowly:
'Ofcourse I've got her address. But don't you know what's
happened?'
'What do you mean, what's happened?' Damour burst out.
'Well, that's a goodone, that is! Do you really meanyou don't
know anything about it?... Your wife's married again, old
chap!'
Damour put his glass down on the table. His hand was
tremblingso muchthatthewinewasspillingoverhisfingers. He
wiped them offon his tunic and repeated in a flat voice:
'What did you say? Married again? Married again? Are you
sure
'Good God, man, you were dead, so she married again.
There's nothing surprising about that... Only, of course, it's
queer now you've come back to life. . .'
Poor Jacques sat there, white as a sheet, his lips trembling,
while Berru gave him the details. Felicie was very happily
married to a widower, a butcher in the Rue des Moines, in the
Batignol — les district. She was proving v — ery useful in the shop.
Sagnard that was the butcher's name was a big man, sixty
years old but very well preserved for his age. His shop on the
corner ofthe Rue Nollet was one ofthe busiest in the district; it
had fine red-painted iron grills and an ox-head in gilt at each end
ofthe shop-sign.
'Well, what are you going to do?' Berru asked, after he had
given all this information.
Bewildered by the description of the shop, the wretched
Jacques' only reply was a vague wave ofthe hand. He'd have to
see.

Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder 261
'And what about Louise?' he enquired suddenly.
'Yourlittlegirl?Well, I'mnotsure.
. .
Theymusthavesenther
away somewhere to get her out ofthe way, because I've never
seen her with them. Yes, that's true, they could always give you
back your daughter, because they're not doing anything for her.
Butwhat wouldyoubedoing witha finestrappingyoung girlof
twenty? After all, you don't really look all that grand, do you?
No offence, mind, but I reckon people'd easily slip you a couple
ofsous ifyou were standing on a street corner.'
Cut to thequick,Jacques hung hishead, unableto saya word.
Berru ordered another carafe ofwine and attempted to console
him:
'Buckup, oldboy! Atleastyou'realive, somakethemostofit!
All's not lost, everything will sort itself out. . . What are you
going to do?'
And the two men embarked on an interminable discussion,
coming back to the same arguments again and again. One thing
the housepainter did not reveal was that immediately after
Jacques' deportation, he had tried to make up to Felicie, being
greatly attracted by her shapely shoulders. As a result, he
harbouredasecretresentmentagainstherforhavingpreferredthe
butcher, doubtless because ofhis money. When the third carafe
had been ordered, he exclaimed:
'Well, ifI wereyou, I'd go and confrontthem, I'dsettlein and
kick Sagnard out ifhe got in the way. . . After all, you're the
boss. You've got the law on your side.'
Damourwasbecoming moreandmoretipsyandthewinewas
putting some colour back into his pallid cheeks. He kept saying
thathe'dhavetosee, whileallthetimeBerrukepturginghimon,
slappinghimontheshoulderandaskinghim ifhewasa man. Of
coursehe was a man! And how he'd loved his wife! And still did
and he'd be ready to set the Seine on fire to get her back! Well,
what was he waiting for, then? Since she belonged to him, all he
had to do was to goand getherback. Nowboth verydrunk, the
twomenwereleaningforward, nosetonose, bawlingateachother.
'Yes, I'll go and see her!' Damour said suddenly, rising
unsteadily to his feet.
'Goodforyou! You'renochicken!' exclaimed Berru. 'I'll come
with you.'
And they set offfor Batignollcs.

262 Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder
The butcher's shop stood on the corner ofthe Rue des Moines
andtheRueNollet. Withitsredgrillanditsgiltox-heads, itlooked
very prosperous. Quartersofmeatwerehangingoverwhitecloths
androwsoflegsofmuttonweredressedinpaperfrills, likebunches
offlowers. Pilesofred meatveinedwith streaksoffatwereheaped
up on marble slabs: pink veal, dark red mutton and bright scarlet
beef, all cut up into neatly trimmed pieces. The copper basins, the
armofthescales andthehooks on theracks were gleaming. In the
bright and airy marble-paved shop there was a feeling ofoverall
abundanceandglowinghealth, withagorgeoussmelloffreshmeat
thatseemedtobringthebloodtothecheeksofalltheassistants. At
the back ofthe shop, clearly visible in the strong light flooding in
fromthestreet, Feliciesatensconcedbehindatallcounter, screened
from draughts by glass panels. In the cheerful play oflight and
overall pinkness ofthe shop, she looked blooming with all the
rich, mature vitality of women who have seen their fortieth
birthday. Fresh and smooth-skinned, with her well-groomed
coils ofblackhairandimmaculatewhitecollar, shehadthebusy,
sober, smiling look ofthe expert shopkeeper; holding a pen in
one hand and giving change from the till with the other, she
epitomized the honesty and prosperity ofthe whole shop. Her
assistants were cutting up meat, weighing it and calling out the
prices; thewomen customers weregoingupto payatthetill; and
she was taking the money, not forgetting to exchange a word of
local gossip as she did so.
At that moment, a rather sickly-looking woman was paying
for a couple ofcutlets which she was eyeing with a woebegone
expression.
'Seventy-five centimes, isn't it?' said Felicie. 'Things still not
quite all right, Madame Vernier?'
'No, I'm stillnot feelingvery well. It's mystomach. I bringup
everything I eat. Anyway, thedoctor says I've gotto have meat.
But it's so dear! . . . You know the coal-merchant's died?'
'How sad!'
'Withhim, itwasn'thisstomach, it washisintestines. Seventy-
five centimes for a couple ofcutlets! It's cheaper to eat poultry.'
'Maybe, butyou can'tblameus, MadameVernier.
. .
Even we
have ajob to make ends meet.
. .
What's the matter, Charles?'

Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder 263
Evenwhilechattingandgivingchange, shehadkepthereyeon
the shop and hadjust seen one ofher assistants talking with two
men standing outside on the pavement. As the assistant did not
answer, she raised her voice and asked even more loudly:
'Charles, what do they want?'
But she did not wait to hear the reply for she had recognized
one ofthe two, who was leading the way.
'Oh, it's you, Monsieur Berru.'
She did not seem very pleased to see him; she was pursing her
lips and looking rather disdainful. On the way from the Rue St-
MartintoBatignolles, thetwomenhadmadeanumberofcallsat
variouswineshops; it was along walkandtalking andarguingall
the time, as they were doing, was thirsty work. Both were well
in theircups. When Berru, fromthepavementoppositetheshop,
had suddenly pointed to Felicie surrounded by the glass panels
and said: 'Good Lord, there she is!'Jacques had been touched to
the quick at seeing her looking so young and beautiful. It wasn't
possible, that must be Louise looking like her mother, because
Felicie must surely be much older than that. Andthe sight ofthe
fine shop with its red meat and gleaming copper and that well-
dressedladylookingsodistinguishedandhandlingallthatmoney
daunted and dismayed him and made him forget his anger. His
face went pale and the thought ofgoing into such a grand place
madehimashamedofhimself. Aladylikethatwouldneveragree
to take him back now, in his dirty tunic and with his long beard
and generally brokendown appearance. On the pointoftakingto
his heels, he swung round and was about to dash offdown the
street to avoid being even noticed when Berru held him back.
'Christ Almighty, haven't you got any guts at all?. . . Well, let
me tell you that ifI were you I'd bring that hoity-toity wife of
yoursdown apegortwo! And I wouldn'tgoawaywithouta fair
share-out, yes, half of all those legs of lamb as well as all the
rest. So in you go, you chicken!'
. .
He pushed Damour across the street. Then, having asked one
ofthe assistants ifMonsieur Sagnard was there and being told he
was down at the slaughter-house, he marched in ahead to put an
end to the hesitation. Jacques followed, looking and feeling like
an idiot.
'What can I do for you, Monsieur Berru?' enquired Felicie in a
tone ofvoice that was far from friendly.

264 Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder
'It's not for myself,' the housepainter replied. 'It's my pal here
who has something to say to you.'
He stepped back andJacques found himselfface to face with
Felicie. She was looking at him as he stood there terribly
embarrassed and staring at the floor in an agony ofdistress. At
first, an expression of disgust and repulsion spread over her
normallycalm, cheerfulfaceatthesightofthiswretcheddrunken
old man, reeking of poverty. But then she looked harder and
suddenly, without uttering a word, she went as white as a sheet
and with a stifled cry let go of her handful of change which
slipped tinkling into the till.
'What's the matter? Aren't you well?' asked Madame Vernier,
still standing at the till and watching with curiosity.
Still speechless, Feliciewaved peopleaway, roselaboriously to
her feet and walked towards her dining-room at the back ofthe
shop. The two men followed her without being asked, Berru
withagrinonhisfacewhileDamourwasstillkeepinghiseyeson
the sawdust-covered stone floor, as ifafraid oftripping up.
'Well, what an odd thing!' muttered Madame Vernier, left
alone with the butcher's assistants.
The latter had stopped cutting and weighing their meat and
were exchanging surprised glances. However, anxious not to
become involved, they resumed their tasks with an unconcerned
air and without replying to Madame Vernier, who left the shop
holding her cutlets up in the air and studying them with an
aggrieved look on her face.
After reaching the dining-room, Felicie still did not feel
sufficiently safe from observation and, pushing open another
door, she showed the two men into her bedroom. It was a very
neat and tidy room, quiet and private, with whitecurtains round
the bed and at the window, a gilt clock, gleaming mahogany
furniture and not a speck ofdust to be seen. Felicie dropped into
an armchair upholstered in blue rep, mumbling over and over
again to herself:
'It's you. . . It's you. . .'
Damour could think of nothing to say. He stood looking
roundtheroom, notdaringtosit downbecausethechairsseemed
toofineforthelikesofhim. Onceagain, it wasBerruwhospoke:
'Yes, he's been looking for you for the last fortnight. Then he
met me and I've brought him here.'

Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder 265
Then, as iffeeling the need to apologize, he added:
'Icouldn'treallydoanythingelse, you understand. He'san old
palofmineanditnearlybrokemy
hearttoseethefilthystatehe's
in.'
Felicie was slowly recovering. Being the most sensible ofthe
three as well as the fittest, as soon as she had regained her
composure, she realized that she must attempt to find a solution
to an unbearable situation and so she prepared to tackle the
dreadful subject head on:
'Well, Jacques, what have you come for?'
He made no reply.
'It's trueI'vemarriedagain,' shecontinued, 'butyou know it's
not my fault. I thought you were dead and you didn't do
anything to let me know that you weren't.'
Jacques found his tongue at last:
'Yes I did. I wrote to you.'
'But I never got your letters, I swear. You know me and you
know I neverlie. Inanycase, I'vegotthecertificateinthedrawer
here.'
She feverishly opened a drawer ofher secretaire, took out a
piece of paper and handed it to Damour who began reading it
with a bewildered look on his face. It was his death certificate.
She went on:
'So I was all alone and I accepted the offer of a man who
wanted to help me in my distress and my poverty. That's my
only fault. I allowed myself to be tempted by the thought of
finding happiness with someone else. That's not a crime, is it?'
More embarrassed than his wife,Jacques had been listening to
her with his eyes still fastened on the floor. Now he looked up
and said:
'What about my daughter?'
Felicie started trembling again.
'Your daughter?... I don't know, she's left home...' she
faltered.
'What do you mean?'
'I'd sent her to live with my aunt. She ran away. She got into
bad company.'
Fora moment, Damoursaid nothing and remained very calm,
asifhehadn't understood. Then suddenly, all his embarrassment
vanished and he banged his fist down on the washstand so

266 Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder
violently that a shell-covered boxjumped about on the marble
top. However, he did not have time to say anything because at
that moment two children, a little boy ofsix and a girl offour,
burstinto theroomandranoverto flingtheirarmsaffectionately
round Felicie's neck.
'Hallo, Mummy, we'vejust been down to the gardens at the
endofthestreet, but Franchisesaid weoughttobecomingback.
Didyouknowthere'sasandpitdownthereandducksswimming
on the pond?'
'Yes, yes, now that's enough,' their mother replied sharply.
And calling to the maid:
'Franchise, take them away. It's silly to bring them back so
early.'
The disappointed children were bundled out ofthe room by
the maid, who was annoyed at having been told off by her
mistress. Thetruth wasthatFeliciehadsuddenlybeengrippedby
a wild fear thatJacques might want to take her children away
from her and carry them offwith him.
Although he had not been invited to sit down, Berru was
sprawling comfortably in the second armchair. He had quickly
whispered toJacques:
'Sagnard's children. Don't kids shoot up fast!'
When the door had closed behind them, Damour again
thumped the washstand with his fist and shouted:
'No, that's not good enough! I want my daughter and I've
come to take you away!'
Felicie's blood ran cold.
'Sit down and let's talk,' she said. 'Making a fuss won't help
anybody. So you've come to take me away?'
'Yes, I have and you're going to come with me straightaway,
I'm your husband, your only real husband, and I know my
rights. Isn'tthatthecase, Berru? Sodotheproperthingandfetch
your hat unless you want everyone to know the truth!'
She was looking at him with an expression ofhorror on her
face, unable to conceal her fear and disgust at the sight ofthis
filthy old man, prematurely aged from poverty and hardship,
whom shecouldno longerlove. How could she, so well-fed and
pink, accustomedtoallthecomfortsofmiddle-classlife, possibly
pick up her former rough and poverty-stricken life with this
ghost from the past?

Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder 267
'So, you won't come,' said Damour, reading her refusal in her
face. 'Oh, I can understand. . . You're used to playing the lady
behindthe till and I haven't gota fineshop anda tillful ofmoney
whereyoucandip in asyoulike. . . Andthen therearethosekids
we'vejustseen, you seemtobetakingbettercareofthem thanof
our Louise. Once you've got rid of the daughter, why worry
about the father? But that's all one to me, I want you to come
with meand you'll comenow orelse I'll go to the police and get
them to take you back to my place. . . I'm in the right, aren't I,
Berru?'
Berru nodded. He was enjoying himself. However, seeing
Damour in such a fury, carried away by the force ofhis own
words, and realizing that Felicie was at the end ofher tether and
onthepointofcollapse, hefeltthatadisplayofmagnanimitywas
called for. So he said sententiously:
'Yes, ofcourse you're in the right but you can'tjust go ahead
without due consideration for others. I've always believed in
acting straight, so before deciding on anything, the right and
properthingwouldbetohavea chatwith Monsieur Sagnardand
since he's not here. .'
.
He broke off and continued in a different tone of voice,
trembling with sham emotion:
'But our friend here doesn't want to wait. After all, in his
position, it's very hard on him. Ah, Madame Felicie, ifyou only
knew how he's suffered! And now he hasn't a farthing to call his
own, he's starving and nobody wants anything to do with
him . . . When I methim a fewhours ago, hehadn'teaten fortwo
days.'
Felicie forgot her fears. Herheart melted and tears sprang into
her eyes. She was overcome by a feeling ofsadness and grief, of
disgust with life. A cry burst from her lips:
'Forgive mc, Jacques!'
Then, when she had recovered some of her composure, she
went on:
'What's done can't be undone. . . But I can't bear the thought
ofyour being unhappy. You must let me help you.'
Damour made a savage gesture.
'Ofcourse,' Berru interposed swiftly, 'this shop is doing well
enough for your wife not to let you starve. Even ifyou don't
want to accept money, at least you needn't refuse a present

268 Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder
Supposeyouonlygavehimtheoddbitofstewingsteak, hecould
make himselfa cup ofbeefbroth, couldn't he?'
'Ofcourse, anything he likes, Monsieur Berru.'
At this Jacques began thumping on the washstand top again
and shouting:
'No thanks, I'd sooner starve!'
And looking his wife in the eyes, he added:
'You'reallI wantandI'mgoingtogetyou. Youcankeepyour
meat!'
Felicie shrank back in her chair, with renewed horror and
disgust. Damour'sangerwas terrifying. Hestarted toheap every
kind ofabuseon hiswife, threatening tosmasheverythingup;he
demanded to know his daughter's address, catching hold ofhis
wife and shaking her, screaming that she had betrayed her and
abandoned her. Completely overwhelmed by the afternoon's
happenings, Felicie made no attempt to defend herselfand could
onlystammerthatshedidn'tknowtheaddressbutthatthepolice
would surely be able to inform him. In the end, having settled
himselfin a chair, swearing that nothing would make him leave
it, Damour suddenly sprang to his feet and, giving a final thump
with his fist on the washstand, said:
'Allright, blastyou, I'mgoingnow.
. .
Yes, I'mgoingbecause
I feel like going. . . But don't worry, I'll be back and next time
it'llbewhenyourman'shereandI'llsettlehishashandyoursand
yourkids', too, thewholedamn' lotofyou! So,justyou wait
. . .
and see what happens.'
He went out shaking his fist, secretly glad to be leaving like
that. Delighted to be involved in such a difficult situation, Berru
stayed behind and said in a conciliatory voice:
'Don't be afraid, I'll stay with him. . . We must make sure
nothing terrible happens.'
Heevenhadtheimpertinenceto takeFelicie's hand and kissit.
Shedidnottrytostophim: shewasabrokenwomanandhadher
husband taken hold ofher in his arms, she would have left with
him. Butnowshecouldhearthetwo men's footstepsleaving the
shop. Oneofherassistants was vigorously chopping upaloinof
mutton; a sum of money was being called out; her business
instinct revived and she went back to the till surrounded by the
glass panels; she was deadly pale but composed, as though
nothing had happened.

Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder 269
'How much?' she asked.
'Seven francs fifty, Ma'am.'
She gave the appropriate change.
Nextday, Damour had astrokeofluck: thebuilder found him
ajob as a night-watchman on the worksite at the Hotel de Ville,
so that he found himselflooking after the building which he had
helpedtoburndowntenyearsearlier, during theCommune. On
the whole, itwas apleasantenoughjob, oneofthoseundemand-
ing mechanical tasks which dull the senses. During the night he
would prowl round the various scaffoldings, listening for any
suspiciousnoiseandoccasionallydroppingofftosleepamidstthe
sacksofplaster. HenolongertalkedofgoingbacktoBatignolles.
One day, however, when Berru had offered him lunch, in the
courseofconsuming their thirdlitre ofwine, hestarted shouting
thattomorrowwastheday;butwhentomorrowcame, hestayed
on the building site. From that time onwards, the pattern was
always the same: he would become angry and start demanding
his rights only when he was theworsefordrink. Whensober, he
remained gloomyandworried, asthoughhewereashamedofhis
behaviour. The housepainter had taken to poking fun at him,
saying that he wasn't a man. ButJacques would look grim and
mutter:
'I'll have to kill them, then! I'm only waiting till I feel in the
mood to do it!'
One evening, he set offand went as far as the Place Moncey,*
then, after an hour spent sitting on a bench, he came back to his
building site. Ononeoccasion duringtheday, hethoughthehad
caught a glimpse ofhis daughter reclining on the cushions ofa
superb landau driving past the Hotel de Ville. Berru volunteered
to investigate, saying that he was certain that it would only take
twenty-four hours to locate her, but Damour refused. What was
the point ofknowing where she was? All the same, the thought
that this beautiful, elegant woman, whom he had seen for a brief
second as her fine greys had trotted past, might be his daughter,
quitestartled him and increased his general feeling ofsadness. He
wentoutandboughtaknifeandshowed ittohiscomrade, saying
thathewould useittostick thebutcher. Theexpression appealed

270 Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder
to him and he walked about repeating it to himself, laughing as
though it were a goodjoke:
'I'll stick that butcher. . . Every dog has his day, doesn't he?'
Berru spent several hours with him in a wineshop, trying to
convince him that it was wrong to stick anybody, and stupid as
well, because you'd end upon the guillotine. Hetook holdofhis
hands and made him swear not to land himselfin that sort of
trouble, althoughJacques still kept stubbornly repeating, with a
sneer:
'Everydoghashisday.
. .
I'mstill going tostickthatbutcher!'
But the days went by and he didn't stick anybody.
Then something occurred which seemed likely to precipitate
the catastrophe: he was sacked for incompetence: he had dozed
offduringa stormy nightand letsomeonesteal ashovel. Soonce
again he started to go hungry; he would wander round the
streets, too proud to beg, peering into cook-shops with feverish
eyes. But, far from rousing him, these setbacks made him even
more muddled than ever. He slouched around as ifcompletely
immersed in his misery, looking as though he would never find
the courage to return to Batignolles now that heno longerhad a
clean shirt to his back.
Up in Batignolles, Felicie was living in a feverofanxiety. The
eveningafterJacques' visit, shehadn'tfeltabletotell herhusband
what had happened; and next day, worried at having said
nothing, she felt full ofremorse and could not pluck up courage
to speak. As a result, she was in a perpetual state oftrepidation,
with the constant fear ofseeing her first husband appear on the
scene at any time ofthe day and anticipating a frightful quarrel.
Worst of all, there must have been suspicions amongst the
assistants because they were walking around with grins on their
faces and each time Madame Vernier came to collect her regular
two cutlets, she picked up her change with a very disconcerting
expression on her face. In the end, Felicieonedayflung herarms
round Sagnard'sneckandsobbedoutherconfession. Sherepeated
what she had said toJacques: it wasn't her fault because when
people are dead, they shouldn't come back to life. Sagnard was a
good-naturedsortofmanandstillhaleandheartyaswell, despite
hissixtyyears; andhecomfortedher. Good Lord! Itmightnotbe
a very pleasant matter but they'd find a solution eventually.
Didn't every problem have a solution? Cheerful and self-assured

Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder 271
as he was, with money in the bank, his main reaction was one of
curiosity. They must meet this ghost from the past and have a
chat. He was so intrigued that when, a week later, Damour still
hadn't appeared, he said to his wife:
'Well, what's happened? Is he going to let usdown? Ifyou had
his address, I'd go and call on him. . .'
Then, whenshebeggedhimnottostirmattersup, hewenton:
'But it's for your own peace ofmind, my dear. . . I can see
you're fretting. We must clear this thing up.'
And it was indeed true that under the impending threat of
troubleandtheaddedstressofhavingtowait, Feliciewaslooking
thin and worn. Then, one day, as the butcher was telling one of
his assistants off for having forgotten to change the water in
which a calfs head was soaking, she came running up to him,
breathless and white as a sheet.
'He's here!'
'Oh, good,' said Sagnard, immediately calming down. 'Show
him into the dining-room.'
And, turning unhurriedly to the assistant, he said:
'Wash it thoroughly, it's stinking to high heaven.'
He went into the dining-room and foundJacques and Berru.
Berru had met Damour quite by chancein the Rue de Clichy; he
no longer saw him so often because he was tired ofhis poverty-
stricken condition. Butwhenhelearnedthathisfriendwasonhis
way to the Rue des Moines, he had started angrily blaming
himself, for this was something that concerned him as well as
Jacques. He then proceeded to lecture Damour very loudly and
asserted that he would certainly not let him go up to Batignolles;
he even stood in his way and tried to force him to hand over his
knife. Damour merely shrugged his shoulders and looked
stubborn; hehadcertainideasinmindthathewasnotpreparedto
share with anyone. In reply to Berru's remarks, he simply
retorted:
Come along with me ifyou like but stop nagging me.'
In the dining-room, Sagnard made no move to invite the two
men to sit down. Fcliciehad runoffinto herbedroom, taking her
two children with her; and she was sitting behind the double-
locked door with her head throbbing with anxiety, clasping her
children in her arms as ifdefending them and refusing to let them
go. She was straining her ears to listen but there was no sound

272 Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder
from thenext room forthetwohusbandswereeyeingeach other
in embarrassed silence.
'So it's you,' Sagnard said at last, to break the silence.
'Yes, it's me,' Damour replied.
He was impressed by the butcher's appearance and felt at a
disadvantage. With his fresh complexion, clean-shaven face and
short hair, Sagnard looked not much more than fifty. In his
shirtsleeves and wearing a large, spotlessly clean white apron, he
seemed not only young but cheerful.
'However, as a matter of fact,' Damour went on hesitantly,
'it's not you I want to see but Felicie.'
Hearing this, Sagnard completely recovered his composure.
'Lookhere, my friend, let'sputourcardsonthetable. Damn it
all, we're neither ofus to blame for anything that's happened.
Why quarrel when it's nobody's fault?'
Stubbornly staring at one ofthe table legs, without raising his
eyes, Damour mumbled:
'I've got nothing against you, all I want is for you to go away
and leave me alone to talk to Felicie.'
'Well, the answer to that is no,' the butcher retorted very
calmly. 'I've no wish for you to make her miserable like you did
last time you came here. We can talk it over without her. . .
Anyway, if you're prepared to be reasonable, everything will
turn out all right. You claim you still love her so you must try
andlookatitfrom herpointofview. Thinkofherhappiness
'Stoptalking likethat!'Jacques burstoutin asuddenrage. 'Just
you keep out ofit or there'll be trouble.'
Eager to take the limelight and imagining that Jacques was
about to pull out his knife, Berru flung himselfbetween the two
men. Damour pushed him away, shouting:
'And you keep out ofthe way, too, you stupid idiot! What's
the trouble with you?'
'Gently does it,' Sagnard said again. 'When people lose their
temper, they don't realize what they're doing. . . Now listen to
me. IfI ask Felicie to come in, will you promise to be sensible?
She's a sensitive woman, you know that as well as I do. . . We
neither ofus want to do each other in, do we? Will you behave
properly?'
'IfI'd come here with the idea ofcausing trouble, the first thing
I'd'vedonewouldhavebeentothrottleyou, withallyourfinetalk!'

Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder 273
This was said in such a deeply emotional and sad tone ofvoice
that it seemed to touch Sagnard to the quick.
'All right then,' he replied, 'I'll call Felicie. I'm a fair man, you
know, and I canunderstandyou wanting totalkall thisoverwith
her. You've got a right to do so.'
. .
He went over to the bedroom door and knocked.
'Felicie! Felicie!'
Then, as nothing seemed to be stirring and Felicie, transfixed
with horror at the thought ofthe impending interview, still sat
terrified, clasping her children even more tightly in her arms, he
became impatient:
'Now come along, Felicie. . . You're behaving stupidly. He's
promised to be sensible.'
In the end, the key turned in the lock and she appeared,
carefully locking the door behind her to keep her children safe
from any intrusion. Another embarrassed silence ensued. In
Berru's words, the weather seemed set for squalls.
Damour started to speak, slowly and stumbling over his
words, whileSagnardstoodin frontofthewindow, liftingoneof
the little white curtains with his finger and pretending to look
out, in order to make quite plain how understanding he was.
'Look, Felicie, you know I've never been an unkind man and
that's the truth. Well, I'm not going to start being unkind now.
At first, I wanted to kill offthe whole lot ofyou here. . . Then I
thought what good would that do me. . . So I prefer to leave the
choice to you. We'll do what you want to do. Since the law can't
providejustice for us, it's for you to decide which ofus you like
best Now, giveusyouranswer. Whodoyouwanttobewith,
. . .
Felick?'
Felicie was choking with emotion and quite unable to reply.
'Very well,'Jacques went on after a pause, still speaking in the
same flat voice, 'I can see that you want to stay with him. . . I
knew how things would turn outeven while I wason my way up
here... And I don't bear you any grudge, I've got to admit
you'reright. Afterall, I'm finished, I'vegotabsolutelynothingto
offer you. You don't love me any more and lie's making you
happy, quite apart from the two little ones. .
Felicie was weeping distraughtly.
'You're wrongto becrying, I'm not blaming vou toranything.

274 Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder
thought I'd come and see you for the last time, so that you can
sleep undisturbed. Nowyou've madeyourchoice, I'llnotbother
you any more. . . It's all over, you'll never hear from me again.'
Hemadehiswaytowardsthedoorbut Sagnard, whohadbeen
listening deeply moved, called out and stopped him:
'That's a wonderful thing you'vejustdone! You can'tpossibly
go off and leave us just like that. You must stay and have
. .
dinner with us.'
'No, thank you,' Damour replied.
Amazed at what he thought was a very strange ending to the
matter, Berru seemed quite scandalized at hearingJacques refuse
this invitation.
'At least you'll stay for a drink,' the butcher went on. 'You'll
not refuse a glass ofwine, for goodness' sake?'
Damour did not accept straightaway. He was running his eyes
roundthetidy, cheerfuldining-room, withitsplainoakfurniture,
and finally his gaze settled on Felicie who was looking at him
beseechingly with her eyes full oftears. He said:
'All right, then.'
Sagnard was delighted. He called out:
'Quick, let'shavesome glasses, Felicie. Wecan dowithout the
maid. Bring four glasses, you must join us. . . My friend, it's
very good ofyou to accept, you can't guess what a pleasure it is
forme, because I likepeople whoseheart is in the right placeand
yours certainly is, I can tell you!'
Meanwhile, Feliciewasnervouslytryingtofindtheglassesand
a bottleofwinebutshewassobewilderedthatintheend Sagnard
had to come to her aid. Then, when the wine had been poured,
they all clinked glasses round the table:
'Your very good health!'
Sitting opposite Felicie,Jacques had to reach overto touch her
glass. Their eyes crossed in a silence pregnant with memories of
the past. Her hand was trembling so much that her glass was
clinking like the chattering of teeth in a high fever. They
addressed each other as strangers, no longer as man and wife.
They were dead for each other; only memories were left alive:
'Your health!'
And while*all four ofthem raised their glasses and drank, the
children's voices could be heard coming from the adjoining
room. They had begun playing and were chasing each other.

Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder 275
shouting and laughing. Then they knocked on the door and
'Mummy! Mummy!'
called:
'Well, that's that,' said Damour, putting his glass down on the
table. 'Goodnight to you all.'
He left. White as a sheet, Felicie stood watching him go while
Sagnard politely accompanied him to the door.
In the street, Damour started walking so fast that Berru had
difficulty in keeping up with him. The housepainter was furious
and when they had reached the Boulevard des Batignolles and he
saw his companion sink weakly down on to a bench and sit
there white-faced, with glazed, stanng eyes, he at last let fly and
spoke his mind: well, Jacques might at least have slapped that
precious couple's faces for them; and he felt revolted at seeing a
husband giveuphis wifewithouteven discussing terms; you had
to be a prize idiot, yes, an idiot, ifnot worse. . . And he quoted
the instance ofanother man who had been in the Commune and
hadcomebacktofind his wifeliving withsomeoneelseand both
men andthewoman werenow all threeliving togetherin perfect
harmony! Youjusthad towork thingsoutandnotlet yourselfbe
made a dummy, because, after all,Jacques was the dummy in all
this!
'Youdon'tunderstand,' Damourreplied, 'sojustclearoff, will
you? You're not my friend any more.'
'Not your friend! When I'vebeendoing my utmost. Justtry
. .
and think, will you? What'sgoingtohappentoyounow? You've
gotnobody, you'reout on thestreet likea dog and you'll die like
one ifI don't help you. . . Not your friend! IfI desert you now
you'll have nothing left to do butcrawl into a corner and starve!'
Jacques made a despairing gesture. It was quite true, there was
nothing forhim todobutthrowhimselfintotheriverorelsegive
himselfup to the police.
'Well,' Berru went on, 'I'm such a good friend ofyours that
I'm goingtotake youtoa place where you'll geta bitofgruband
a root over your head.'
He stood up as ifhe had come to a sudden decision and forced
his companion to go with him.
'Where are you taking me?' stammeredJacq
:

276 Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder
'You'll soon see. . . As you didn't want to have a meal with
your wife, you'll be having dinner with someone else.Just get it
into your thick head that I'm not going to let you do two stupid
things in one day!'
He was walking down the Rue d'Amsterdam* and when they
reached the Rue de Berlin, he stopped in front ofa small private
house and asked the footman who opened the door whether
Madamede Souvigny was athome. Seeing that thefootmanwas
hesitating, he added:
'Tell her it's Berru.'
By now utterly bewildered by this unexpected call and thesight
of this luxurious townhouse, Damour mechanically followed
Berru in. They wentupstairs and suddenly he found himselfbeing
hugged by a little blonde woman, very pretty and dressed in an
extremelyrevealinglaceneglige. What ismore, shewasexclaiming:
'It's you, Daddy, it's you! Oh, it is kind of you to have
persuaded him to come!'
Shewas friendlyand naturalandnotintheleastworriedbythe
old man's dirty old tunic, for in a sudden outburst ofdaughterly
affection, she started clapping her hands in delight. But in his
surprise and shock, her father had not even recognized her.
'It's Louise,' said Berru.
'Oh yes,' stammeredJacques. 'It's very kind ofyou. . .'
He hadn't the courage to address her less formally. Louise sat
him down on a sofa and rang forthe footman to tell him that she
was not at home to anyone. Jacques meanwhile was looking all
round the room which was draped with cashmere and furnished
with a richness and elegance that brought tears to hiseyes. Berru
slapped him triumphantly on the shoulder and said:
'Well, do you still say I'm not your friend? I felt you'd be
needing your daughter so I discovered her address and went and
told her all about you. She told me to bring you along.'
'Ofcourse I did,' said Louise fondly. 'Oh, I'm sure you know
that I can't stand republicanism and those nasty men of the
Commune who would ruin everything ifthey had the chance.
But you're different, you're my dear old Dad. I can remember
how kind you were to me when I was ill as quite a little girl.
You'llsee, we'll getalonglikeahouseonfireaslongasyounever
talk politics . . . First of all, we're all going to have dinner
together. Oh, isn't it lovely!'

Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder 277
She was almost sitting on the lap ofthis poor working-class
father ofhers, her pale eyes shining with laughter and her silky
blonde hair floating in loose curls round her temples. He felt
exhausted but a delicious sense ofwell-being was beginning to
creep over him. He was tempted to decline, because it hardly
seemedrighttobesittingdowntoamealinthisgrandhouse. But
the energy which he had felt when leaving the butcher's shop
after drinking each other's health had now quite deserted him.
His daughter was too sweet and kind, he couldn't resist her tiny
white hands which were resting in his own.
'So you won't say no?' enquired Louise again.
'Yes,' he said at last and two tears trickled down his careworn
face.
Berru expressed his pleasure that he was being sensible at last.
Then, as they were making their way into the dining-room, a
servant came to inform Louise that her gentleman had called.
'I can't seehim now,' she repliedcalmly. 'Tell him that I'm with
my fatherbutthatIcanseehimtomorrowatsixifhewantstocall.'
The dinner was delightful. Berru was playing the fool as usual
andLouisewasinfitsoflaughter. Shefeltasifshewasbackinthe
Ruedes Enviergesanditwasarealtreat.Jacquesatesomuchthat
he was quite weighed down by fatigue and food; but each time
hiseyesmetthoseofhis daughter, theylitupwithatendersmile.
With dessert, theydrankaverysweetsparkling winewhichwent
to their heads. Then, after the servants had left, they propped
their elbows on the table and talked with tipsy sentimentality
aboutthepast. BerruhadrolledacigaretteforLouiseandshewas
smoking it with a faraway look in her half-closed eyes. When
speakingaboutherown past, shebecameverymuddledwhenshe
reached the subject ofher lovers, particularly the first one. a tall
young man who had been perfect in all respects. Then she
suddenly started to criticize her mother.
'You know,' she said to her father, 'I can't bear to see her any
more, she behaved sobadly. Ifyou like, I'll goand tell her what I
think ofthe rotten way you've been let down by her.'
But Damour replied solemnly that her mother no longer
existed as far as he was concerned. Suddenly, Louisejumped to
her feet, exclaiming:
'By the way, I've got something to show you that will please
you.'

278 Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder
She disappeared and soon came back, still puffing at her
cigarette, and handed her father an old yellow photograph with
dog-eared corners.Jacques focused hisblearyeyesontheportrait
and gave a start.
'It's Eugene, my poor boy Eugene,' he stammered.
He passed the photograph to Berru who was also moved and
said in a low voice:
'It's a very good likeness.'
Then it was Louise's turn to look. She held the photograph in
her hand for a moment, her eyes brimming over with tears, and
as she handed it back, she said:
'I can remember him very well. He was such a nice boy!'
All three suddenly gave way to their emotions and started
crying. The photograph went round twice more, to the
accompaniment of most touching sentiments. The photograph
had faded badly and in his National Guard uniform, he looked
like the shadow ofa rebel, lost in legend. But turning it over,
Jacquesreadwhathehad writtensolongago: 'I willavengeyou,'
and waving a dessert knife in the air, he repeated his vow:
'Yes, I'll avenge you!'
'When I saw Mummy going to the bad,' Louise explained, 'I
didn't want to let her keep the photo of poor Eugene so one
evening, I pinched it. . . Let me give it to you, Daddy.'
Damourhadputthephotographdownbesidehisglassandwas
still looking at it. However, at long last they came round to
practicalities. Her hand pressed to her heart, Louise said she
wantedtorescueherfatherfrom his predicament. Foramoment,
itseemedalmostasifshethoughtofsuggestingthathemightlive
in her house in Paris; but it would hardly have been feasible.
Finally she had an idea: she asked him ifhe would be prepared to
look after a property that one ofher gentlemen friends hadjust
boughthernotfarfrom Mantes.*Therewasalittlecottageinthe
grounds where he could live quite comfortably on two hundred
francs a month.
'Good Lord! It's paradise!' exclaimed Berru, accepting on
behalfofhis friend. 'Ifhe gets bored, I'll go and call on him. . .'
By the following week, Damour had already moved into Bel-
Air, his daughter's property. And there he was able to live the
sort ofquiet life that Providence certainly owed him after all the

Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder 279
earlier hardships that he had suffered at her hands. He put on
weight and flourished; respectably dressed at last, he had the
frank, good-natured look ofan old soldier. The peasantry were
deferential. He went fishing and shooting. On sunny days, you
would see him setting off for a country walk, looking at the
wheat growing with theeasy conscience ofa man who has never
robbedanyoneand who islivingonahard-earnedpension. When
his daughter came down with a gentleman friend, he knew his
place. His greatjoy waswhen she managed to slipaway and they
could have lunch together in the cottage. On such occasions
he would talk baby-talk to her and gaze at her fine dresses with
an adoring look in his eyes. They were tasty lunches, with
all sorts of good things which he cooked himself, quite apart
from the dessert ofsweets and cakes which Louise pulled out of
her pockets.
Damournevertriedto seehis wifeagain. Hehadhis daughter,
who had taken pity on her old father and who was his pride and
joy. Nor did he ever make any attempt to re-establish his
identity. What was the point ofputting officialdom to trouble?
And this gave him added peace and quiet. He had found his
remote little niche where he was quite forgotten, a nobody, and
not ashamed to accept his daughter's presents, whereas, had he
beenbrought back tolife, certainenviouspeoplemightwellhave
taken umbrage at his situation and he could well have suffered
from them.
Sometimes, there was a lot ofactivity and noise in the little
cottage. That would be Berru coming to spend a few days in the
country. In Damour's cottage, hehad at last realized his dream: a
place where he could really do himself proud. He would go
shooting and fishing with his friend and spend days lying on his
back beside the river. In the evening the two friends would talk
politics. Berru would bring down some anarchist newspapers
from Paris and after reading them the two old friends would
agree on the radical measures that were necessary: shoot the
government, string up the bourgeois, burn Pans down and
replace it with a new town, a town that would belong to the
people. They still had not gone beyond the stage of achieving
universal happiness by means ofa general massacre. And finally
.
just beforegoing tobed,
1
)amour, whohad had hugenc'sportrait

280 Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder
framed, would go up to it, look at it and, brandishing his pipe,
shout:
Til avenge you!'
And next day, he would go offplacidly, with his old man's
stoop, to his fishing while, stretched out on the bank, Berru
would lie drowsing with his face buried in the grass.

PRIESTS AND SINNERS
FATHER PlNTOUX had been the parish priest ofSaint-Marchal
for the last forty years. He was now a little old man ofseventy,
dried up by his open-air life; with his brick-red, weatherbeaten
face and his shabby, threadbare old cassock he looked like a
peasant in his smock.
The story ofhis life was a simple one. He was a woodcutter's
son from the neighbouring village of Meriadec. A puny boy,
bullied by his brothers, he had had the good fortune to be taken
up by a patroness who arranged for him to be admitted to the
little seminary of Guerande. Physical labour had always been
anathema to him and thethought ofwielding an axetocut down
treesscaredhim so muchthathewouldhavepreferredtobecome
a tramp. He had moreover always possessed a childlike faith
which persisted at the seminary, together with an equally blind
submission to authority. He believed everything his teachers told
him and, never having been very bright, he avoided the need for
thought by telling himself that God would do his thinking for
him. He had taken holy orders with the same unquestioning
submissivencss and with one single idea in mind: to exercise his
ministry undisturbed. At first, the bishop of Nantes sent him
round to a couple of smaller parishes and, finally realizing his
simple-mindedness, innocence and complete lack ofinitiative, he-
had packed him offto Saint-Marchal and thought no moreabout
him.
Saint-Marchal is a tiny hamlet in the wilds ofLower Brittany.
The Nantes to Brest railway did not pass within twenty-five
milesofit; it wasreal wolfcountry, setona high plateau battered
bystormsraging in from the Atlantic, which can beseen asa thin
green lineOn thehorizon. Saint-Marchal hadalmost fourhundred
inhabitants and poverty was widespread, for the soil is stony and
there is a great shortage ofwater. The wretched villagers seemed
to belong to quite a different world from that of the average-
Frenchman. And it was in this poor hamlet that Father Pintoux
had grown old.

282 Priests and Sinners
Little by little, the priest had settled into his narrow round of
routine, like some old riding-school hack. Mass in the morning,
catechism in the afternoon; and in the evening, a game ofcards
withaneighbour. Sinceitwas quiteimpossibletoliveonthefew
hundred francshereceived from theparish, hehadbeenforcedto
overcome his distaste for hard work and take to wielding a
mattock in the vegetable garden at the back ofhis presbytery,
where he grew beans and cabbages. He could be seen in his
shirtsleeves, bareheadedinthesun, grappling withastonysoilfar
too hard and heavy for his puny arms. Afterwards he would put
on his cassock and go offto hear confession from the girls ofthe
village, still out of breath from his exertions and searching his
memoryfortheLatinformulaswhichhetrottedoutautomatically.
Father Pintoux had a whole collection ofready-made phrases
andgestureswhichhehadbeenusingforthelasthalf-centuryand
from which he never deviated. For him, religion had become
purely a matter ofoutward observance. His services went like
clockwork. His devotion of earlier days had turned into mere
empiricism and found satisfaction in the repetition, at every
opportunity, ofthe same details culled from his missal. Had he
returned to earth in the shape of one of those peaceful oxen
lumbering stolidly through their pastures, he would havebowed
down to the sun with the same conviction that he showed in
kneeling before the figure ofChrist.
Meanwhile, over the last forty years, he had officiated at the
weddingsofmostofthevillagersandbaptizedawholegeneration
of children. He was the patriarch of Saint-Marchal. At church
festivals, they would bring him giftsofeggsand butter. Itwashe
whom theyconsultedonany matterofimportance; heconducted
lawsuits, reconciled families and shared out inheritances. There
was, indeed, nothing more natural than this regal status ofthe
priest, for he alone was capable ofreading the books, he alone
wasincommunicationwithscienceandwithGod. Herepresented
authority even more than the mayor, forhespokeinthenameof
the Lord whereas the mayor spoke only in the name of the
government; and Heaven, which metes out hail and thunder, is
the only power feared by peasants, the only one before which
they would bend the knee.
In the whole village, there was not one single unbeliever. On
Sundays, the church was packed, with the women on one side

Priests and Sinners 283
and the men on the other. When the priest came in carrying the
chalice, he could see at a glanceifeveryone was present. As soon
asoneofhis flock was an absentee, hewould berequired tooffer
an excuse, such as an illness preventing him from leaving the
house; otherwise the priest would call down God's wrath upon
the head ofthe lost sheep. From the pulpit, he would fulminate
direthreatsagainstthe ungodly, conjuringupthehorrors ofhell-
fire, with cauldrons ofboiling oil and souls in torment roasting
on red-hot iron bars. Strong men and women would blench and
after the service little children would be haunted by nightmares
for the whole week. In fact, the priest would not have harmed a
fly; but he was repeating sermons that he had heard from others
and he himselflived in aweofthe divine wrath ofajealous God;
hereallybelievedthesecruel andmiraculoustalesandlegends. So
Saint-Marchal lived in a state of humility and terror, like a
primitive tribe prostrating itself beneath a cloud streaked with
lightning and always on the point ofloosing its thunderbolts.
One Sunday, having noticed that Marianne Rousscl wasnotin
her usual place beside the font, Father Pintoux set offafter lunch
to find out ifMariannewas ill. Hehad thestiff, halting gaitofan
old man; the only signs oflife now left in his stolid, leathery old
facewerehistinygreyeyes, assharpandinnocentasachild's. On
theway, afewpeasantsstoppedhimtoaskhimwhattheweather
would beliketomorrow and helooked up atthesky, wagged his
head and finally promised that it would be fine. A few steps
furtherona woman's washingcaughthiseye; then hewentintoa
backyard to look at a brood of chicks. For everybody in the
villagehewasoneofthefamily. Theonlythingwhich differenti-
ated him from the other villagers was his cassock; he shared their
ideas and theirspeech and he, too, lookedas ifhewas walking in
his sleep.
Finally, he reached the Roussels' cottage. Marianne was out-
side, looking perfectly well and chatting to her tall neighbour
Nanette.
'Well, Marianne, what's all this about? You missed Mass this
morning!1
And without giving her a chance to explain, he launched into
his jttack: it was wrong, the Devil was always lying m wait and
she would certainly end up in Hell ifshe didn't go to church. In
the end, Marianne managed to explain:

284 Priests and Sinners
'It's my little girl, Father. . . She's verypoorly. This morning I
thought we'd lost her. . . So I had to stay at home.'
'Little Catherine isn't well?'
'Yes, Father, we'veputherin ourbed. Comeand takealook.'
In a large bed at the far end ofthe gloomy room, a little girl
about ten years old was lying with flushed face and closed eyes
shivering with fever. The whole of her poor little body was
tremblingunderthesheet. Thepriestwentoverandlookedather
silently for a moment. Then he said slowly:
'It'sthe good Lord punishing you, Marianne. You'veoffended
Him by your bad example and He has laid His hand upon you.'
Hejerked his chin toemphasize each word, asifto indicatehis
approval ofsuchdivinevengeance. AndCatherinehadnotbeena
very good girl, either. The previous Thursday during catechism,
he had been obliged to send her out ofchurch because she had
been laughing and disturbing the other children. It happened to
have rained very heavily that afternoon and, not daring to go
homeforfearofbeingscolded, thelittlegirlhadbeendrenchedto
the skin in a shower.
'ShemusthavecaughtitlastThursday,'hermothermurmured.
'She came home in a dreadful state.'
'God is punishing her as He is punishing you,' the priest went
on. 'Do you think He is happy when Hesees a naughty little girl
making fun ofHim in His own house? Everything must be paid
for, you know.'
Nanette crossed herself and old Roussel, who was eating a
bowl of soup at a table, nodded his head in approval. Yes,
everything had to be paid for. Ifthere had been a hailstorm last
April, it was because the people ofSaint-Marchal had displeased
the Virgin Mary by not offering such fine bunches offlowers as
in previous years, on the feast ofthe Assumption. Ifold Lazare's
marehad died, it wasbecause theold man had forgottento make
the sign ofthe cross as he walked past the Calvary.*
However, as the Roussels had no recollection ofhaving given
any cause for God's anger, they hoped that theiryoung daughter
wouldrecover, withthehelpoftheangels. Andifthingswereno
better after a couple ofdays, they could even send for the doctor
who lived at Fontenac, some fifteen miles away. Nanette gave a
shrug; as far as she was concerned, doctors were ofno use at all.
Once Heaven had passed judgement on someone, there was

'
Priests and Sinners 285
certainly no doctor who could save him. And besides, thedoctor
at Pontenac was a heathen; everybody knew that you could see
the Devil standing at the foot ofthe bed ofany dead man whom
he'd been treating and who had his medicine inside him.
'Rub her temples every hour with holy water,' said the priest,
'and say three Paternosters and two Ave Marias.'
Then he knelt down and mumbled a quick prayer. The
Roussels and Nanette said 'Amen' with him and crossed them-
selves vigorously.
'It's not going to be anything much,' said the priest as he left.
'The child's body must cast out all its wickedness. . . I'll be back
tomorrow.'
Butwhen FatherPintouxcametoseetheRousselsnextday, he
was greatly agitated and in a voice trembling with emotion he
recounted the appalling story that he had just been told by his
bell-ringer: Catherine had committed an act of sacrilege. On
Thursday, after being sent out of the catechism class, she had
slipped offto play for a moment in the sacristy, where the bell-
ringerhadseenhertakeoffthecrownofthelargeplasterstatueof
the Virgin Mary and put it on her own head, making several
curtsiesall byherselfasshedidso, doubtlessinordertomakefun
of the Mother of God. The priest could not understand why
Heaven had not struck her down on the spot. But now she was
surely doomed. Her illness had come from on high.
'But she did come home soaked to the skin on Thursday,'
Mariannesaid again. 'Perhaps, afterall, if weweretogetherinto
a good sweat. . .
'Oh, she's ill, very ill,' old Roussel said in a low voice, sitting
in a corner with his hands on his knees.
And the poor little girl seemed indeed on the point ofdeath as
she lay in the largebed with hershort blonde hairall dishevelled,
gaspingfeverishly forbreaththroughherburninglips; behindher
half-closed lids, hereyes were glazed and staring and in her fever
shekeptmoaning: 'Oh, it'shurting me, it'shurtingdreadfully!' It
was pitiful to sec this tender young girl in such pain, clenching
m
her tiny fists her lonely struggle against death.
Meanwhile the story of the sacrilege had spread through the
village and all the neighbours had come Hocking to the house It
was rumoured that lather Pintoux was going to attempt to chase
out the Devil who had got intothe body ot the Roussel girl Soon

286 Priests and Sinners
therewereadozen peoplegatheredinthefrontroom. Theywere
all whispering togetherand recalling otherwell-known incidents
of the same sort. Three years before, another little scamp had
stolen a holy wafer and pinned it to a tree for fun; the tree had
immediately started to groan and red liquid had begun to stream
out of its trunk while large drops of blood had dripped from
every branch. Nanette swore that she had seen it happening,
adding that at any rate her sister had seen it. But the group of
villagers were even more impressed by another story: on one
Shrove Tuesday, some young lads from Saint-Nazaire were
walking round with cardboard masks on their faces and when a
priest had gone by carrying extreme unction, one ofthe young
rascals had decidednot to removehis mask whichhadthen stuck
sotightlytohisfacethathehadstartedscreamingwithagonyand
they had been forced to tear the mask offpiece by piece, pulling
the skin away with the cardboard.
After listening to these examples, no one was surprised that
Catherinehadbeenstruckdownwithadreadfulillnessforhaving
daredtoputtheVirgin Mary'scrownonherownhead. A feeling
ofanxiety mingled with awe filled the room. Although it was
broad daylight, the men felt rather uneasy and the women kept
glancing apprehensively over their shoulders, halfexpecting to
see a cloven hoofand a pair ofhorns.
'She was such a quiet well-behaved little girl,' said her father.
'Something must have got into her, that's for sure.'
The priest had started praying. He walked round the room,
reciting his Latin prayers and, dipping a box twig into a plateful
ofholy water, each time he reached the child he sprinkled some
overher, makinga signofthecrossin theair. Catherinewas still
moaning, writhing and arching her back while she babbled
incoherently in her delirium, laughing and sobbing simulta-
neously. Suddenly shestarted up with staringeyes, callingoutto
the people she saw around her; then she fell back, singing a
children's song until her voice died away into silence.
The men and women in the room shrank back trembling,
afraid of seeing a monster spring out of the poor feverish
girl's open mouth. She must certainly be possessed by the
Devil if she started like that as soon as a drop of holy water
touched her. Surely the Devil was going to throttle her and put
an end to it all.

Priests and Sinners 287
Atthefootofthebed, Mariannewasintears: Catherinewas all
shehadandnowshewasgoingtoloseherwithoutevenknowing
what had caused her death. Once more, she mentioned a doctor
and begged her husband to drive quickly over to Pontenac; but
old Roussel was still slumped stupidly in his corner and merely
shook his head apathetically in reply. He was resigned to the
death ofhis daughter, like all old peasants who submit to higher
powers which they cannot understand. Why botherto send for a
doctor when Father Pintoux had announced that God wished to
take away their child? Father Pintoux certainly knew better than
anyone. All you can do is to submit; your turn will come, too,
and the best thing was to be always on your best behaviour.
When he saw that the holy water was making the little girl
suffer and not bringing her any relief, Father Pintoux clapped his
hands lightly, as he did in church when he wanted the congrega-
tion to kneel. They all fell on their knees. He remained standing
for a moment, saying:
'Let us pray together and ask our Lord to perform a miracle.'
Hisbrownleatheryfacelitupwiththeradianceofhisfaithand,
despite his stoop and his weatherbeaten peasant-like appearance,
he had a majestic look as he fell on his knees and, with all the
fervourofhis seminary days, prayed God to show mercy on the
poorsinner. The murmurofprayer grew louderand theanxious
atmospherein theroom was filled bytheicychillofsuperstition,
the helpless ignorance ofpeople crushed by life's adversity. The
littlegirl gaveonefinal convulsiveshudderandthenlayflatinthe
bed, gasping asifin relief. Then, all atonce, shegaveadeepsigh
and lay still. She was dead.
'Rcquiescat in pace,' said the priest, raising his voice.
'Amen!' came the response from the villagers.
And they all rose to their feet and left, greatly affected by the
scene, while Marianne stifled her sobs in her apron and old
Roussel, utterly bewildered and unable to realize what he was
doing, opened his clasp-knife and cut himselfa slice ofbread
When Father Pintoux left he was greeted by the whole village
as the representative of the dread Master who can exercise his
poweroflifeand deathatanytime. Itsohappened that municipal
elections were being held on the following Suuda\ and the
villagers clustered round hnn to ask hnn how thev should vote
He repeated the instructions which he had received from the

288 Priests and Sinners
bishop's palace the previous day. Next Sunday, not one ofthe
villagers failed to attend Mass and the bishop's candidate was
elected without a single dissenting voice. Father Pintoux ruled in
Saint-Marchal like God himself, like some old rough-hewn,
wooden idol with power to dispense thunderbolts and horrible
diseases.
II
Every Friday, Father Michelin would hear confession from his
lady clientele in the Dominican chapel in a little street in the
Faubourg St-Germain. Itwasaverycosylittlechapel, morelikea
large drawing-room, scented and intimate in its dim light from
the stained-glass windows. It was considered the acme ofgood
taste for ladies not to go to confession in their own parish but to
come here instead, far from the common crowd ofpenitents. It
placed them on another plane; they could imagine that God was
offering them a more elegant absolution oftheir sins.
Father Michelin was a tall, fine-looking man ofthirty, brown-
haired and white-skinned, who was at that time enjoying a
considerable vogue in high society. The son ofa glass and china
dealer in the Rue du Bac and born in that aristocratic quarter, he
was now confessing the daughters of the countesses and
marchionesseswhohadbeen his father'scustomers. Thisfacthad
not, however, gone to his head; he had succeeded in striking the
exact balance ofmanner betweenthe deferenceofaninferior and
the all-powerful authority ofthe priest; this had given a special
piquancy to his exercise ofhis ministry.
His schooldays were obscure but he was said to have been a
good student at his seminary. He was basically a pleasant young
man, fully determined to enjoy life and to be adaptable. While
still a youth he must have had dreams offorcing an entry, in a
position of authority, into those aristocratic drawing-rooms
which he had till then been able to glimpse only through half-
closeddoors. Hisambitionwastomoveinselectcircleswherehe
could satisfy his taste for fine things, choice meals and elegant
women, everything that smelt nice. As far as religion was
concerned, he looked upon it as a decent veil to throw over
humanugliness. Withoutreligion, politesociety wasimpossible.

Priests and Sinners 289
On that Friday, Father Michclin was hearing confession from
the young Countess de Marizy, an adorable blonde as yet barely
twenty-two years old, whose beauty had become proverbial in
the social columns ofall the newspapers. It was she who set the
tone and no party was complete without her. The priest had
become a friend ofthe family after a stay in the count's country
seat ofPlessis-Rouge in Normandy.
The countess was kneeling as she waited her turn. Her dainty
littlechinwasrestingon herclaspedhandsandshewaspondering
while gazing vaguely in front ofher at the pale pink light from
thestained-glass window. Itdidnottakeherlongtoexamineher
conscience: she had only one major confession to make and she
was merely deliberating with herselfhow best to make it. She
briefly toyed with the idea ofnot revealing her lapse, because it
was a very difficult matter to speak about; however, it was that
very difficulty which attracted her; she felt a feminine urge to
relate to this tall handsomeyoung priesthow, unfortunately, she
had been so far forgetful of her wifely duty as to yield to the
solicitations ofthe Marquis de Mauroy, a sort ofcousin ofhers
whom she had been in love with before her marriage.
Meanwhile, herturn had come. Shestood upand wentoverto
the confessional with a slight involuntary curl on her lips which
provided acharming foiltothecontriteexpression which shehad
felt it proper to assume. No doubt shehad found theappropriate
approach and turn ofphrase needed to make her task easier. She
knelt down slowly and stayed there for a good half hour.
Nothing could be heard, no voices were raised, there was not
even a creak from the woodwork. Then she came out of the
confessional, hereyesdemurely castdown, and it was impossible
to readanything from theexpression on her face; shestill had the
slight involuntary curl on her lips which brought dimples to her
pink cheeks.
Father Michclin confessed his men in the Dominican chapel on
Mondays. So, onthefollowingMonday, theMarquisdeMauroy
was kneeling in exactly the same place as the countess had knelt,
similarly awaiting his turn. The marquis was a slightly built and
delicate-looking young man, with a rather pretty face. Despite
his dissipated way oflife, he had never stopped regularly practis-
ing his religion, considering it as forming part of his dutv to
society.

290 Priests and Sinners
Whilekneeling, hewas, likethecountess, pondering andatthe
same time watching the pale pink light from the stained-glass
window. He was wondering whether it would be wise to reveal
his relationship with Madame de Marizy to Father Michelin. No
doubt the secrets of the confessional were sacrosanct; but the
priestmightunwittinglybetray whatheknew by certain pointed
glancesin thecount'spresence. Themarquisdecidedonamiddle
course: he'd confess his lapse while keeping the lady's name
secret. Having set his mind at rest by this decision, when he
reached the confessional, he went briskly down on to his knees.
Monsieur de Mauroy took less than five minutes to put his
conscienceinorderbuthecameoutlookingextremelycross. The
priest had refused to let him finish his rigmarole and had
informed him verysternly thatitwas extremely remissofhim to
have taken advantage ofa gentleman who had welcomed him to
his home as an old friend ofthe family. He had mentioned the
count by name and shown that he knew all about the whole
affair. To hell with all women! They couldn't go to confession
withoutblurtingouttheirwholestoryandoftenevenembroider-
ing on it!
Every Tuesday, Father Michelin dined with Monsieur de
Marizy, a small party to which only a few friends were invited.
So, the day after hearing the young marquis's confession, the
priest was sitting in the small drawing-room ofthe count's Paris
residence, with the countess and a few other guests. It so
happenedthatthemarquis had alsobeeninvited onthisoccasion.
Hecameinsmiling, greetedthecountessandheldouthishandto
the priest with the bland assurance of a man impervious to
embarrassment in any situation, however awkward.
It was now seven o'clock but the count had still not come
in; they waited for a good quarter of an hour longer. The
countess apologized for her husband's late arrival: he had
so many important commitments. Everyone nodded under-
standing^ although they all knew that the count's only commit-
ments were the self-imposed ones which he undertook with the
better-known amongst the actresses playing in Paris's smaller
theatres. Indeed, his friends considered him too incompetent to
go into politics.
'MonsieurdeMarizymusthavebeendelayedbytheministerial
crisis,' said Father Michelin. 'No doubt he's being consulted.'

Priests and Sinners 291
'Yes, thatmustbethereason,' murmured themarquis, looking
at the countess with a sly smile.
She was playing with a scent-bottle and seemed completely
unmoved. Father Michelin's remark had been madepurelyoutof
politeness, forhetooknewquitewell wherethecountmust have
been delayed. He even knew the name ofthe little singer at the
Italian opera whom Monsieur de Marizy hadjust presented with
a house in town. This actress, who went by the name ofBianca,
was a Bordeaux girl who would gobble up the count in three
months ifshe didn't show him the door before. The priest had
caught a glimpse ofher once in the Bois de Boulogne. A really
lovely little creature. . . And, still thinking ofher to himself, the
priest said out loud:
'Yes, Monsieur de Marizy will certainly be at the Ministry.'
Eventuallythecountappeared. Althoughbarelyfiftyyearsold,
he had a grey, careworn face, receding hair and a morose
expression which made him look like a distinguished statesman,
prematurely aged by the burden ofpublic office. He made his
excuses, complaining that he was snowed under with work.
They moved into the dining-room.
Thefood wasdelicious. Attable, theconversationcontinuedin
an undertone but, during the second course, one very old
gentleman raised his voice to ask the count who was going to be
the new minister. The count did not hear him; he was looking
worried and anxious. The old gentleman had to repeat his
question.
'Well, as a matter of fact they haven't yet come to any
decision,' stammered the count finally. 'It's a serious situation,
very serious indeed. . . . We've never been in such a serious
situation.'
Everyone had stopped talking to listen to him and he was
obliged to go on talking, which he found great difficulty in
doing.
'Yes, it's a very dangerous situation. There's been some very
violent disagreement. . . I expect they'll be able to patch things
up.'
Looking at the count, Father Michelin thought to himselfthat
little Bianca must have got hold ofthe fire-tongs and sent him
packing That would be the violent disagreement to which the
count had referred. At this same moment, the priest overheard

292 Priests and Sinners
the countess and the marquis, sitting close to him, exchanging
rapid whispers.
'Why didn't you come?'
'I couldn't get away.'
'I waited foryou all day. You don'tlove meany more, Laura!'
'Be quiet! I'll come and see you tomorrow at two o'clock.'
The countess had noticed that the priest was listening to their
conversation. She turned towards him with an engaging smile:
after all, he was in the secret too and wasn't it his duty to show
sympathy towards human frailty?
'Father, I know you're fond of game. . . Jean, offer Father
Michelin some more partridge.'
The priest remained calm. He would certainly know how to
deal with the countess as she deserved next time she came to
confession; but here, in her own dining-room, he was merely a
guest and he was too much a man of the world to show the
slightesttraceofsternness, whichwouldhavebeenagrossbreach
ofmanners. And so dinner continued withthe prieststill hearing
whispers on his left while at the same time looking at two pink
spots he hadjust noticed, two little scratch marks beside one of
the count's eyes. Meanwhile the wines were perfect, the dining-
room was filled with the fragrance offresh fruit, the whole meal
was being served with the utmost elegance and decorum.
'Areyou not preaching at Ste-Clotilde* next Saturday?' an old
lady enquired from the priest during dessert.
'Yes, Madame de Beauvoisin. I'm preaching in aid of the
charitable institution ofOur Lady.'
Theconversationturnedtothisorganizationwhoseaim wasto
save the souls oforphan girls who were in moral danger. The
countess was one ofthe lady patronesses.
'We're doing all we can,' she said. 'There are so many poor
girls who go wrong because of the lack of a sound religious
upbringing. Once a woman has learnt to know God, she is safe
from all danger.'
The Marquis de Mauroy gave wholehearted approval to the
countess's remarks. Without religion, morality was impossible.
Even the count rose to the occasion with a splendid homily:
'As I was saying to two senator friends ofmine only the other
day, ifyou want to raise the moral level ofthe masses, you must
forcethemdownon theirkneesinthechurches. Andtheyagreed

Priests and Sinners 293
with me. They're intending to introduce a bill making the
observance of the Sabbath Day compulsory. We must set an
example, gentlemen, we must set an example!'
Exhaustedby theeffortofmakingthisspeech, thecountseized
the opportunity, as they were leaving table, to take his hat and
slip discreetly away. Work is such a hard taskmaster!
Theparty wasdrawingtoitsclose. Thetwooldladieswerethe
first to leave, followed by the other guests. Finally, only Father
Michelin and the marquis remained with the countess. The
countesswassittingontheleftofthefireplace, themarquisonthe
right, with the priest in the middle. Conversation became desul-
tory and monosyllabic. Father Michelin realized that he was
balking the two lovers but he was tactless enough to want to
makehis presencefeltinordertodisciplinetheyoungcoupleand
recall them to their sense ofduty. He made no reference to the
matterbuthehad promisedhimselfnottoleavebeforetheyoung
man.
Halfan hour dragged by. The priest's situation was becoming
moreandmoreembarrassing. Intheend, themanoftheworldwon
the day overthe priest. Father Michelin stood up to takehis leave.
At this the countess and the marquis became extremely affable
and, as he was going through the door, they called out to him:
'Good night, Father! You know we'll be there to hear you on
Saturday.'
On the following Saturday, thechurchofSte-Clotilde was full
offlowers and draped overall in red velvet. In the pulpit, Father
Michelinhadtakenashistextthesupremevirtueoftheholy state
ofvirginity, athemeofconsiderabledelicacy which hehandledin
the choicest and most subtle terms. Amongst the congregation,
the Count and Countess de Marizy could be seen sitting in the
front pews, together with the young Marquis de Mauroy. After
the sermon, at the consecration of the host, all three went
devoutly down on to their knees. And Father Michelin could
congratulate himselfon having risen from his father's china-shop
to the choir-stall from which he was now able to look down on
these reverently bowed aristocratic foreheads. But there was one
thought which tempered his elation: he knew that in his church
religion was above all a matter ofpomp and ceremony and that
although these pious attitudes were his to command, he had little
power over the souls ofhis congregation.

294 Priests and Sinners
III
TherewasasmallprivatedinnerpartyattheRobinots', awealthy
middle-class family. No more than four people were present:
Monsieurand Madame Robinot, theirdaughterClementine, and
the parish priest, Father Gerard.
'Do help yourselfto a piece ofsole, Father,' urged Monsieur
Robinot. 'I know you're fond offish, so you can't refuse.'
'Now Father, you musthavesomemushrooms,' said Madame
Robinot in a confidential undertone. 'Do me the pleasure of
taking these two.'
And even Franchise the maid, busily uncorking a bottle,
whispered into the priest's ear:
'Some Chambertin,* Father?'
And Father Gerard beamed affably to his left and right at his
host and hostess and made polite replies; he even gave a sly
friendly wink to thank Franchise. He was being spoilt, really he
was. But the sole was superb and he'd be very happy to have a
few more mushrooms. Then he leant back in his chair and
drained his glass ofChambertin with half-closed eyes.
Father Gerard was fifty years old. He was fat but he was so
ready to poke fun at his paunch himselfthatnobodywould think
ofblaming him. He boasted a large, round, pink face and a fresh
complexion which bore witness tohis level-headed, peaceful and
happy existence. The son of well-to-do lower middle-class
parentshehadgoneintothechurch withagentlesmileonhislips
ratherthan withanypassionatefaithinhisheart; hehadshrewdly
weigheduptheprosandconsandcometotheconclusionthatthe
lifewouldsuithim. Someoftheverybestlivingshadfallentohis
lotand his superiors hadnever failedto furtherhis advancement,
and were still furthering it, for they saw in him one of those
affableand tolerantsortsofpriestwho, inthatdayandage, could
do more for religion than any apostolic zealot.
He had enjoyed considerable success in Tours for, like many
middle-class provincial towns, Tours liked peace and quiet. The
women were generally pious while most ofthe men rarely set
foot in church. Father Gerard had realized that his most import-
ant task was to cause no disruption offamily life and had shown
unerring skill in achieving that goal. He was made welcome

Priests and Sinners 295
wherever he went; he heard the wives' confessions and played a
hand ofpiquet with their husbands.
'Now, Father, what's your opinion ofthis chicken?' enquired
Madame Robinot.
'Quite delicious. . . I'll take a little salad.'
After dessert, coffee and liqueurs were served. Madame
Robinot and her daughter withdrew. Father Gerard cheerfully
downed a small glass ofChartreuse and, as he was alone with
MonsieurRobinot, theyboth started chattingaboutaneventthat
was the talk ofthe town: the elopement ofa Tours lady with a
young man from Paris.
'A very pretty young woman,' said the priest. 'Tall, good
figure, lovely teeth.'
'You were her confessor, I believe?' asked Monsieur Robinot.
ButFatherGerarddidnotseemtohaveheardthequestion. His
voice took on a fatherly tone: at the family's request, he'd no
doubt have to make up his mind to go to Paris to call on the lost
sheepandbringherbackintothefold. Withaslygrinonhisface,
MonsieurRobinotwastryingtoembarrassthepriest, whofinally
exclaimedjovially:
'Now! Now! You're just a heathen. There's nothing would
give you greater pleasure than to make me say something
foolish. Let's drop the subject.'
. .
In fact Monsieur Robinot tried to tease Father Gerard at every
opportunity. He enjoyed bringing the conversation round to
scabrous subjects and was always looking for new ways to pull
his leg in an attempt to make him lose his temper. But the priest
always remained imperturbable, exchanged quip for quip and
wasprepared todiscuss anytopic, womenoranythingelse, likea
man quite untroubled by fleshly desires. In these skirmishes, it
was usually Monsieur Robinot who came offsecond best.
Madame Robinot and Clementine were waiting in the drawing-
room. As soon as the priest came in he went over and sat down
between them, while Monsieur Robinot walked outside on to the
terrace to smoke his cigar. The priest's manner became quite
differentand moreunctuousashetalked with theladiesaboutabig
procession which was due to take place the following Sunday. He
was the confessor of both the mother and the daughter. Lolling
back in his comfortable armchair, hetoyed with his gold snuff-box
as he explained that it would be a most moving ceremonv

296 Priests and Sinners
Then Madame Robinot turned towards her daughter:
'Clementine, do show Father Gerard how your needlework is
getting on.'
Clementine went to fetch a chasuble that she was embroidering
for Father Gerard: it showed mystical green and red flowers on a
gold background; the workmanship was superb and the priest
exclaimed in admiration as he complimented the girl, who was
overcomewithdelightandconfusion. Bothwomenwerehuddling
roundhim, hangingonhisslightestword. WhenMonsieurRobinot
came back, having finished his cigar, he exclaimed:
'And there's Father Gerard leading our ladies astray again!'
But the priest intended to have the last word.
'We were talking about you, Monsieur Robinot,' he said with
his sly smile. 'We were saying that you'd be joining in our
Sunday procession.'
'Me? Good Lord no!'
Withoutsayinganythingmore, thepriestwaggedanadmonish-
ing finger at him. A few friends now arrived and the drawing-
room filledup; asinall provincial drawing-rooms, theladies had
not changed out oftheir everyday clothes. There was a registrar
of mortgages, who was an elderly eccentric and a rabid anti-
Jesuit; a rich wheat-merchant who prided himselfon his liberal-
ism; and a principal secretary in the Prefecture, a pretty young
man who took very seriously his role ofsceptical young Parisian
male. However, they all shook hands with the priest in a very
friendly manner. As for the ladies, they clustered rapturously
around him to enquire after his health and to express the hope
that his gout was not proving too troublesome. He was able to
reassure them and then agreed to have a game ofpiquet with the
registrar ofmortgages.
The conversation became general, with Father Gerard inter-
jectingtheoddremarkbetween twohandsofpiquetandcarefully
avoiding any mention of religion. When one of the men was
tactlessenoughtorefertohiscassock, hesmiledwithoutsayinga
word and refused to be drawn. The whole town was still talking
about an incident that had just occurred in someone's house,
when a priesthad losthis temperwith theregistrarofmortgages
who was accusing theJesuits offostering the use oftobacco in
order to stupefy the masses. Father Gerard would certainly have
never allowed himself to be provoked into departing from his

Priests and Sinners 297
exquisite manners by anything like that; on the contrary, he
would have been greatly amused, for these little fantasies ofthe
registrar ofmortgages had the knack ofarousing his mirth.
However, the priest could not always avoid being drawn into
discussion. When his game of piquet was over, Monsieur
Robinot and therich grain-merchant managed to cornerhim in a
window and brought the conversation round to the part played
by religion in a modern society.
'Seriously, Father,' Monsieur Robinot exclaimed, 'I'm not so
fanatically anti-religious as you maythinkbutI aman unbeliever
and so I prefernotto go to church. I'd rather be a heathen than a
hypocrite. . . Aren't I right?'
The priest bowed but said nothing.
'However,' Monsieur Robinot went on, 'I do fully recognize
that religion is an excellent guardian ofmorality and as such an
indispensable form ofdiscipline for our wives and daughters
. . .
For example, I prefer my wife to have God on her mind rather
than some young cavalry officer.'
The principal secretary in the Prefecture, who hadjoined the
group, thought this remark delightful and exploded in a loud
guffaw.
—
'And you do teach them many valuable things their marital
obligations, obedienceandsoon, andyouthreatenthemwithfire
and brimstone if they misbehave. . . that sort of thing is very
helpful to husbands
'In a word, we're a police force ensuring that your honour
doesn't come to any harm,' Father Gerard interrupted.
Once again the principal secretary in the Prefecture went into
ecstasies.
'Oh, that's delightful,' he murmured.
'Well, as faras I'm concerned,' thewheat-merchantexclaimed,
'that's the sort ofpolice force I could well do without. . . You
must excuse me. Father, I've no desire to offend you, but if my
wife spent less time on her knees in church, she'd spend more
time at home with me. And it's not really so very admirable,
from the moral point ofview, to do your duty merely because
you're afraid ofhell-fire.'
'Now you're going too far,' said Monsieur Robinot. 'As long
as everything is running smoothly at home, you don't need to
worry about anything else.'

298 Priests and Sinners
'No need to worry about anything else? Do you think it's a
good thing for your wife to spend every day and all day on her
knees? It quite upsets my wife and when she comes back from
church, all she can think about is the next world!'
'But the important thing is that when she comes back from
church she's not coming back from anywhere else.'
The priest had prudently withdrawn, leaving the wheat-
merchant and Monsieur Robinot to fight it out alone; they
became quite abusive. Then, when they had calmed down, the
priest came back and said in his usual bland voice:
'Idon'tsupposeyouknowaboutitbutyoureallyoughttotake
partintheprocession next Sunday.Justtoseta goodexample, of
course, in support of those guardians of morality Monsieur
Robinot was talking about a few moments ago.'
These two pillars ofbourgeois society laughed and declined: it
wouldreallybetoo funny forwordsto seethemcarrying candles
through the streets ofTours when everyone knew their liberal
views.
. .
'I won't insist on any candles,' the priest retorted in the same
joking tone. 'Justthink ofyourselves astaking astroll behind the
canopy and I can assure you that you'll bein very good company
forall the local authorities will be there as well as representatives
ofthe town's most distinguished families.'
The two men continued to treat the matter as ajoke: it was
very kind ofFather Gerard to invite them but religious proces-
sionswerereallyagainsttheirprinciplesandtheycouldn'taccept.
Courteous as ever, the priest did not insist and as it was striking
ten, he took his leave. All the ladies went with him to the door,
whispering amongst themselves and following him fondly with
their eyes.
'Goodnight, Father, sleep well!'
And then Madame Robinot seemed to have remembered
something and ran downstairs after him. They could be heard
talking together very quietly for some ten minutes.
On the following Sunday, Monsieur Robinot and the corn-
merchant were in the front rank of the procession behind the
canopy. Father Gerard must have given Madame Robinot the
task ofpersuading her husband, who had, however, agreed only
out ofsheer middle-class snobbery: he felt very proud at being a
member ofone ofthe most distinguished families ofthe town.

—
Priests and Sinners 299
But he still intended to maintain his independence and vote
against the bishop's candidate at the next municipal elections.
FatherGerardnoticedhimandgavehimasmile, withaglintof
triumph in his tinyeyes. Fora moment hecould imaginehimself
asthe real masterofTours. Notonly did he reignoverthatflock
ofwives walking along intheprocessionwith downcasteyesand
clasped hands; his power even extended to the husbands of
Voltairean persuasion who in the privacy of their homes
continually made fun ofreligion. No doubt the reverend father
wastoointelligenttocherishanyhopesofconvertingthembutit
was sufficient satisfaction for him to see them paying lip-service
to Catholicism. When churches arc growing emptier every day,
you need to bring every possible means into play to fill them.
IV
In the Rue de Charonne, in the heart of the Faubourg Saint-
Antoine,* a common-law couple was living on the sixth floorof
a large and dilapidated old tenement building, housing exclus-
ivelymanual workers. Everyeveningtheman, abricklayercalled
Lambert, came home the worse for drink. The woman, Lisa by
name and a stitcher by trade, was so lazy that one by one all the
workshops had refused to employ her. They had been living
—
and fighting together for the last three years. But their fighting
didnotpreventthem from being fond ofeachother, intheirown
way. Iftheykeptcontinuallyknockingeachotherabout, thiswas
merelybecauseitwasagoodwayofkeepingwarm in winterand
passingthelong summerevenings. Theneighbours had ceased to
be concerned about them.
However, last winter had been a difficult one. After a more
than usually vigorousbattering by Lambert, Lisa hadbeen forced
to spend six weeks in bed. There had been unemployment and
Lambert had not had any work for the last two months. They
were without food orheating. Oneevening inJanuary, Lambert,
certainlynotasensitiveperson, hadbeen reducedtosittingon the
floor with his face in his hands, weeping like a little girl.
Without saying anything, Lisa, who was onlyjust recovering.
dressed and went downstairs. She was 1going to beg in the streets
to see ifshe could collect enough money to buy a loafofbread.
So. keeping a sharp lookout forthe police, shesidled along in the

300 Priests and Sinners
shadow ofthe houses, stopping any passers-by who seemed to
have kind faces. It was a bitterly cold night and the passers-by
were reluctant to take their hands out of their pockets; they
quickened their pace and made no response. Crying with cold
and shame, Lisa was on the point ofgiving up when she saw a
young priest walking quickly along, wearing such a threadbare
cassock that his face and hands were purple with cold. Well, she
felt pretty certain that hewouldn't giveheranything but, having
no great liking for priests, she held out her hand purely to see
what sort offace he would pull.
He stopped, fumbled in his pocket, blushed and said in a
hurried voice:
'Take me back to your place, but you must be quick, I'm in a
hurry.'
When Lambert saw her come into the room with this 'black
beetle', he shot angrily tohis feet; he too was notfond ofpriests.
But although he immediately recognized Lambert's indignant
reaction, the priest did not seem to be put out by it. He cast a
rapid glance round the garret: there was no doubt oftheir abject
poverty. He put his hand into his fob-pocket and pulled out an
old silver watch attached to a silk ribbon and handed it to Lisa,
saying in the same hurried voice:
'Here you are, take this to the pawn shop straightaway. Please
be quick. I'll wait here till you come back.'
Although bewildered by this strange turn ofevents, Lisa ran
quickly down the six flights ofstairs. All the time she was gone,
the priest remained standing, pale and deep in thought, in the
middle ofthe room, while Lambert went back to squat in his
corner, supporting his head in his hands and glaring at him with
burning eyes.
A quarter ofan hour later Lisa returned with ten francs. The
priest took only the pawn ticket.
'Keep the money,' he said. 'Ifyou need me, come and ask for
Father de Villeneuve at St Margaret's.'
Thereuponheleftand wentshivering backtohisownhometo
eathisusualevening mealoftwoslicesofbreadandbutter. Then
hesettled downto work inhis unheated room, wrappinghislegs
in a blanket.
Father de Villeneuve was tall and thin and his long pale face
already bore two deep creases, although he had been born only

Priests and Sinners 301
twenty-eight years ago, in the south ofFrance, into a family of
small country gentry, completely ruined. Left an orphan at the
age often, he had become deeply religious and had entered the
seminary with such burning enthusiasm that his teachers had felt
compelled to restrainhis potentially dangerous fervour; they saw
in him one ofthose excitable spirits who would be incapable of
sensiblecompromise. Lateron, hehadpassedthroughaperiodof
appalling spiritual struggle: outstandingly intelligent, he had
become obsessed with a desire for knowledge and been assailed
by doubts. He argued with his teachers and wrestled with his
gravemisgivings concerninghis faith. Inanattempttoovercome
these doubts, he had imposed on himselfthe most rigorous acts
ofpenance. Buthehadremainedinwardlytornandunhappy, still
harrowed by the violence of his feelings under the mask of
serenity which he had forced himselfto present to the world. In
thediocese,
hehadbeenmarkedoutasayoungpriestonwhom
a
watchfuleye would have to bekept and who must be disciplined
should the need arise to avoid scandal.
This was why such a highly intelligent man had remained a
humble parish priest attached to the church ofSt Margaret in a
poor inner Paris suburb. He himself had accepted this kind of
exile with complete equanimity, his consuming desire being
merely to reconcile the modern world and Catholicism. He was
anxious to reject neither science nor the new society, while
continuingtoholdtoCatholicdogma. Hewas, indeed, gladtobe
living in this essentially working-class district, for he felt con-
vinced that the main task ofreligion should be to win back the
hearts and minds of the urban population. He would mingle
constantly with the crowds of workers, studying their needs,
seeking to convert them with an apostolic fervour and offering
them aid and comfort. He had met with deep hostility and, till
now, nothing but resentment. He described this situation as a
monstrous misunderstanding; but it pierced him to the quick.
He had been deeply moved as well as shocked by the sight of
.
Lisa begging in the streets fora crust ofbread and by herlook of
hatred, starving though she was. A week later, he went back to
the Rue de Charonne and found Lisa alone, just about to put a
saucepanofpotatoesontothestove. Sheofferedhima lukewarm
sortofwelcomebuthesat downandchattedtoher. Lisa madeno
bones about telling him the truth ofher situation: she was not

302 Priests and Sinners
marriedtoLambert; theyhadcometogetheroneeveningandit'd
last until it came to an end . . .
'But that's all wrong!' the priest exclaimed. 'You must get
married.'
Lisa laughed and shrugged her shoulders.
'We're better offas we are,' she said. 'At least, ifthings don't
work out one day, we can leave each other without any fuss
. . .
Would we have any more money in our pockets if we were
married? The answer to that is no, isn't it? So there you are and
it's not a matter ofbeing decent or indecent at all.'
When he still kept telling her she ought to think it over and
talkedaboutmoralityandthebadexampletheyweresetting, Lisa
shook her head.
'Look, sir, there's a married couple on our landing. Well, they
knockeachotheraboutmorethanwedoandthey'vegotadaughter
of fifteen who they're already trying to turn into a bad lot . . .
Marriagedoesn't really makepeoplemorerespectable, that's forsure.'
And when, as he was going out, the priest tried to leave a five
franc piece on the table, Lisa asked him not to: Lambert had
found work, and charity was for when you were starving and
didn't know which way to turn. She pointed down the corridor,
wherea poorold sick woman lived who hadn'tgotthemoneyto
buy the medicines she needed. He could give his five franc piece
to her, it'd be very welcome. . .
After this, the priest often came for a chat with Lisa. He had
sensedthatthisfallen womanwasgoodatheartandhedesperately
wanted to persuade her to marry Lambert. Later, he would
persuade Lambert to agree to get married. He felt that he would
be conducting a sort ofpropaganda on behalfofreligion and for
the revival ofreligious beliefs in the hearts ofthe populace. But
reality had always led to rude awakenings. . .
He soon became known in the tenement block in the Rue de
Charonne, an enormous stuccoed building in which more than a
hundredfamilieswerecrammed, incrampedlittlelodgings. Each
timehewalkedthrough thecourtyard and wentup thesixflights
ofstairs, eyes would follow him with a malicious gleam. Ofthe
two or three hundred tenants, not oneever went to Mass. So, as
he went through, the priest ran the gauntlet of a beguiling
commentary. Women would say: 'What on earth does he think
he's doing here?' Or: 'Ah well, today's not my lucky day, I've

Priests and Sinners 303
just seen something that'll do me no good.' Or: 'Well, well, a
priest. I suppose he might be going to pay a visit to that curly
haired blonde on the first floor. He might at least have had the
decencytochangeoutofhiscassock . . .' As forthemen, theywere
evenmoreoutspoken. Theywouldenquireifitwasn'tarealpityto
see such a well set-up young fellow, a strapping young man like
that, spend his lifejust gourmandizing and doing damn all.
Nor did their comments stop there: they started accusing the
priestofcallingon Lisa forveryuncanonical reasons: shestill had
very nice teeth and hair. And it was not only the bad workmen,
the drunkards and loafers who placed this interpretation on his
visits. Even the good tenants, the respectable workmen, decent
fellows, madejokes abouthim as loudly as all the rest. The more
broadminded amongst them said that priests were no different
from anyone else, there were good ones and bad ones, but they
ought to be made to marry to prevent them from disrupting
other people's families.
Intheend, aftera brawl in the courtyard, alocksmith who had
just received a black eye from Lambert shouted to him:
'Go and pick up your handout from the priest! Your Lisa's
robbing the poor-box with what that black beetle ofhers keeps
giving her!'
The builder stormed upstairs and started knocking Lisa about,
swearing that ifheevercaught the priest up to his tricks, he'ddo
forhim. Andtheverynextday, thepriestarrivedjustas Lambert
was finishing his supper.
'Don't you touch him!' cried Lisa, terrified at the thought ofa
scandal. 'This gentleman doesn't mean any harm, hejust wants
us to get married, he says it would be more respectable.'
Lambert was too infuriated to listen.
'Clear off and don't you ever come here again,' he yelled.
'What the hell do you mean by interfering and trying to stop
people from living the way they want!'
The priest waited calmly fora chanceto reply and, speaking in
a very quiet voice, tried toappeal to the betternatureofthis half-
demented man: what would becomeoftheirchildren ifthey ever
had any?
'Please listen to me. think ofthe future and get married.
Lambert cut him short:
'Why not start bv getting married Yourself
i
(»et yourself a

304 Priests and Sinners
woman, butnotmine, doyouunderstand?Andnowclearoffand
sharp's the word!'
Fatherde Villeneuvehunghisheadandleft. Ashewentdown-
stairs, he couldhearlaughterall around: theneighbourshadbeen
listening to the row and were amused to seehim beating suchan
ignominious retreat.
And as hewentonhis way, thepriestimagined all thepassers-
by looking at him and laughing, as ifthey knew ofhis discomfi-
ture. Yes, the whole district disliked him and he could feel how
completely all these city dwellers lay outside the influence ofthe
church. His dream ofreviving the faith ofordinary people and
building the new society on it lay shattered. Dear God, were
these themodern times thathad already come? Would hehaveto
look elsewhere for truth than in Catholic dogma, where he had
always tried tofind ithitherto? As his doubts increased, hisinner
struggle grew fiercer. He felt himself already launched-on that
slippery slope with other fervid and intelligent priests beset by
religious scruples and unable to become Christian soldiers
supporting the onward march ofprogress. And so, bruised and
bleeding from their struggle, they eat out theirhearts in pain and
sorrow.
. .
Monsignor was sitting in his study hidden away in the remote
depths ofthe episcopal palace. He had announced that he would
notbein foranyone, as hehad a great deal ofwork thatday. His
secretary Father Raymond, a young priest of twenty-six, was
alone with him, sitting at one end ofthe big rosewood desk on
which the bishop was writing in his large, sprawling
handwriting.
'Raymond,' he said, without looking up, 'take that batch of
proofs and correct them. It's an article for La Religion that must
be sent offto Paris at once. It's due to appear tomorrow.'
And he went back to his work. He was writing a pamphlet
attacking the materialistic theories ofa philosopher with whom
he had been waging almost constant war fornearly a decade. He
had a vigorous, biblical style; but he made a rather excessive use
ofanathema.

Priests and Sinners 305
'Raymond,'hesaidagain, afteralongpause, 'willyoufindmethe
word "neurosis" inthemedicaldictionary.
. .
Yes, pass itto me.'
He dropped his pen and buried himselfin the weighty tome.
He read the article on neurosis which covered several pages. A
whole section ofhis pamphlet revolved round the authenticity of
certain miracles. Then, having acquired sufficient knowledge of
thetechnical terms, he onceagain put pen to paperand scratched
vigorously on. This scratching pen was the only sound to be
heard; the town was plunged in wholesome provincial slumber.
Monsignorwasatall, athletic-lookingoldmanofsixty, asthin
as a rake, with a ravaged face to which his narrow nose added a
note ofimplacable determination. He had shapely hands, with
long tapering fingers suggesting his aristocratic origins: on his
mother's side, he was descended from an old Auvergne family;
but his father, a manofpeasantstock who had risen in the world
through his success in industry, had bequeathed him a far from
aristocratic name which he was moreover quite happy to bear,
taking pride in having raised it to its present eminence. His
determined hands were being elegantly employed in the service
ofa superior class.
Monsignor had taken orders relatively late in life; he had
originally been a colonel in the dragoons. It wasnot until theage
ofthirty-six that he had lost his taste for the military life, which
had doubtless failed to provide him with the satisfactions he had
expected. Inthespaceofafewyearshehadjoinedtheranksofthe
mostdistinguished doctorsofdivinityandeversincehehad been
conducting hisfierceand unrelentingstruggleagainstthespiritof
his age. He had been immediately acknowledged as an outstand-
ingly vigorous polemicist and had swiftly risen to the upper
hierarchy ofthe Church. Iftruth be told, he was now feverishly
waiting to receive his red cardinal's hat, an ambition which he
had fondly nursed ever since he had been ordained.
Monsignor had not disappointed the expectations of his
superiors. This ex-colonel ofdragoons seemed to think that he
was still on the field ofbattle, smiting his enemies hip and thigh
with his crozier. He fought in the newspapers, he fought with
broadsheets, he used every weapon, including the most worldly
ones. Above all. he should have been seen in his dioeese. where
he filled evervone with tear and trepidation. He had vanquished
the whole dcparivmint. He waged pitched battles against the civil

306 Priests and Sinners
authoritiesandwouldconductathreemonths'campaigninorder
to obtain the dismissal ofa gamekeeper to whom he had taken a
dislike. For him, God was a policeman and nothing else; and he
wouldthreatentocall Him inattheslightestsignofinsubordina-
tion amongst the rank and file.
Monsignor had in his study a large ivory figure ofChrist on a
cross ofebony, somewhat in the sameway as you keep a bustof
the reigning monarch in a town hall, purely as a symbol of
authority. Monsignor rarely went down on his knees before his
Christ; hepreferred merely to makearapid signofthecross. But
ifthere was any sign ofrevolt amongst the troops, the bishop
would hold up his hand to the Christ on the cross as though
appealing for help from the armed forces.
Meanwhile, Father Raymond had finished correcting the
proofs of the article intended for the newspaper La Religion.
Monsignorcasta quickeyeoverthearticle, putitinanenvelope,
rang his bell and had it sent straight offto the post.
'Tell me, Raymond,' hesaidaftera moment's thought, 'which
ofthesetwo titles do you prefer:Judasdiscomfitedor The Stupidity
ofScience?'
But he did not give Father Raymond time to reply before
making up his own mind, as he wroteJudas discomfited in large
capitalsatthetopofhis manuscript. Thenherangagainandgave
instructions for it to be sent off to the printers, 'and without
delay', he added loudly to his usher.
'Excuse me, Monsignor,' thelattersaid, 'thereareanumberof
people waiting who are very anxious to speak to you.'
'They can wait. IfI'm free, I'll see them before lunch. . . Oh,
andiftheMarquisdeCourneuvecalls, showhiminstraightaway.'
Monsignor stood up and took a few paces round his study.
Then he sat down briskly and said:
'Pass me my correspondence, Raymond. I'd like you to help
me with it.'
His secretary placed an enormousbundleofletters onthetable
and picking them up one by one he opened them with a paper-
knife and handed them to Monsignor, who ran his eye rapidly
through them; he always insisted on seeing everything for
himself. He sorted the letters as he read them, screwing up and
throwing on the floor those which he considered unimportant
and placing the others in piles.

Priests and Sinners 307
This voluminous correspondence contained a little of every-
thing: requests for aid, letters relating to diocesan affairs, letters
from every corner of France as well as overseas, concerning
the propagation of the faith. Occasionally Monsignor would
become absorbed in a letter and his sallow face would reflect
thecomplicatedcalculationsofastatesman hatchingvastschemes
of conquest. The threads of every possible clerical intrigue
would end up in this study and decisions affecting the most
substantial issues would be reached, questions of war or peace
between nations or matters of internal policy in which the
material and spiritual welfare of France was constantly at
stake.
But on this particular morning, the principal business was
happily not a European upheaval but merely the question as to
who should have the upper hand on an educational issue, the
prefet or Monsignor. Theprefet who, although not a republican,
prided himselfon his liberalism, had set up a lay school in the
littletownofVcrneuil; andMonsignorhadsworn to replaceitby
a Catholicdenominational school. Thebattlehad been raging for
six months now and both theprefetand Monsignorweredigging
in their heels. There were already a good score ofletters on the
subject in the file.
'The Marquis de Courneuve,' the usher announced.
Monsignor hurried over to greet the newcomer.
'Well?' he enquired anxiously.
'I'm just back from Paris,' replied the marquis. 'I saw the
Minister but I didn't want to broach the matter openly. If we
succeed, theprefet is talking oftendering his resignation and that
makes it rather a sensitive issue.'
'Anyway, what's the situation?'
'I wasn't able to have a categorical answer but I've asked my
mother-in-lawtoseewhat shecan do and shehas promised tolet
you know as soon as a decision is reached.'
Monsignor could not refrain from making a gesture ot im-
patience: he should have gone to Fans himself, for abominable
things were taking place in that school.
'Just look at these letters,' he said to the marquis * They've
given the children books to read m which religion is attacked.
I'm told that the schoolmaster has a sister who lived in sin with a
man tor ten yean before marrying him I'm assured that at the
.

308 Priests and Sinners
lastmunicipalelections, thatsameschoolmasterwasamemberof
a committee oftroublemakers . . . Isn't all that enough?'
He went on to attack theprefet. This question ofa lay school
was an excellent opportunity ofgetting rid ofan official com-
pletelylackinginany sortofreligious feeling. Itsohappenedthat
he hadjust received letters from a number ofthe townnotables,
all deeply religious people, who were acting in concert with him
against theprefet. He showed the marquis their letters.
Madame de Saint-Luce, whose brother was a member ofthe
ChambredesDeputes, had writtentosay thatherbrotherhadbeen
sending her excellent news. Monsieur Baudoin, a local lawyer
withagreatdealofinfluenceinthetown, hadassuredMonsignor
that'anyonewhowasanybody'wassolidlyonhisside. Monsieur
de Mortal quoted the following statement by th
—
eprefet: Clerical-
ism is a cancerous growth in the departement dangerous and
incautious words that could well be of use if conveyed to the
propergovernmentquarters.
. .
Infact, theprefetseemedallsetto
take a fall. It would be the third prefet in two years whom
Monsignor had succeeded in unseating.
At that moment, the usher came in to inform the bishop that
the parish priest of Villeneuve, an old man, had come sixteen
miles on foot to present a petition to him.
'Tell him I can't see him now, he'll have to wait!' the prelate
cried.
Butthedoorhad beenleft open and thepriest himselfcamein.
He was a poor old country priest in a threadbare cassock and
wearing heavy dust-covered shoes. Hecame forward and said in
a humble, quavering voice:
'Monsignor, you must pleaseforgive me, I shouldn'thavecome
totroubleyouonmyownbehalf, butit'samatterthatconcernsour
dear Lord, Monsignor. Ourchurch at Villeneuve is so old that the
recent storms have damaged the roof, the windows are all broken
and the doors won't close, so that now the rain comes in on the
chancel. Theotherday wehadtoput upanumbrellaoverthealtar
whileI wassayingMass, sothatthehostshouldn'tgetwet
. . .
It'sa
dreadful state ofaffairs, Monsignor.'
'Well, what do you expect me to do about it?' retorted the
bishop, visibly bored by the priest's longwinded explanation.
'You need only to say the word, Monsignor, and they'll repair
our church. You have the authority.'

Priests and Sinners 309
'That's where you're wrong, there are endless formalities
involved . . . Draw up a proper report and we'll send someone to
look at the damage and the matter will be dealt with through the
appropriate channels.'
He rose to his feet to indicate that the interview was over but
the old priest stood his ground, with tears in his eyes.
'Monsignor, I beseech you to help, it's not for my sake, it's for
the sake ofour dear Lord.'
The bishop lost his patience.
'I'm telling you I can't do a thing. Now, stop troubling me,
you can see that I'm very busy.'
And in the unmistakable voice ofa former colonel ofdragoons,
he snapped:
'Our dear Lord won't melt in the rain, for heaven's sake!'
Completely disconcerted and dismayed by Monsignor's wrath,
the old priest backed out of the room, apologizing as he went,
with his head trembling like a man in his dotage. He would have
to walk the sixteen miles all the way back to Villeneuve, haunted
by the thought that the rain would be pouring into his leaking
church all that winter.
Meanwhile the usher had brought in a letter.
'It's my mother-in-law's handwriting!' exclaimed the Marquis
de Courneuve glancing at the envelope.
Victory was theirs! In great excitement, standing by the
window, Monsignor reread the letter in which the countess
announced that she had seen the Minister and the lay school
would be closed. She also informed him that theprefet had sent in
his resignation.
'I shall be lunching with the Marquis de Courneuve,
Raymond,' said the bishop. 'Tell the printers that I want the
proofs ofmy pamphlet by tomorrow morning at the latest. We'll
read the proofs together.'
And as he was making his way towards the door, his eves
happened to fall on his large ivory figure ofChrist. He had almost
forgotten to associate Him with his victory. So, as he bowed, he
spoke these simple words to Monsieur de Courneuve, in the
joyful tones ofa soldier who has faith in the Mag beneath which he
serves:
'Marquis, by this sign we shall always defeat our toes''

FAIR EXCHANGE
Every Saturday, as regular as clockwork, Ferdinand Sourdis
would come into old Morand's shop to stock up on paints and
brushes. The shop, which was nothing more than a damp and
gloomy ground-floor room, overlooked a tiny square in the
townofMercoeurand stood in the shadow ofa former convent,
now converted into the local school where Ferdinand had been
working for the last year as a very junior assistant master.
Ferdinand, who was rumoured to have come from Lille, was
an enthusiastic painter and spent all his spare time shut away in
his room pursuing his hobby, although he never revealed the
results ofhis work. He usually found himselfdealing with old
Morand's daughter Adele who was herselfa painter ofdelicate
watercolours which aroused much comment in Mercoeur. He
would place his order: 'Three tubes of white, please, one of
yellow ochre and two ofVeronese green,' and Adele, who knew
all about her father's business, would serve him, never failing to
enquire:
'Do you need anything else?'
After the ritual 'That's all for now, thank you,' Ferdinand
would slip his little packageinto his pocket and pay her with the
sheepish look ofa poor man always afraid ofbeing snubbed. He
would then leave the shop. This transaction had proceeded
uneventfully on these lines for a whole year.
Old Morand's customers could be counted almost on the
fingersofboth hands. Mercoeur, a town ofsomeeight thousand
souls, wasnoted foritstanneriesbutthefineartswerenotgreatly
cultivated, although there were four or five youths who daubed
away under the pale eye ofa lean Pole with a profile resembling
that of a sick bird. The Leveque girls, daughters of the local
solicitor, had indeed taken up 'oils' but this was considered quite
scandalous behaviour.
The only customer of note was the well-known painter
Rennequin, a native ofMercoeur, who had achieved enormous
success in the capital, winning many medals and commissions,
andhadrecentlybeendecorated. Whenhecametospendamonth
in Mercoeur in the summer, he caused an upheaval in the tiny

Fair Exchange 311
shopinthePlaceduCollege. Morandwouldtakeendlesstrouble,
even having paints sent specially from Paris. He would greet
Rennequin hat in hand and enquire deferentially about his distin-
guished client's latest triumphs. The painter, a large,jovial man,
had ended by accepting invitations to dinner and would cast a
friendly eye over Adele's watercolours which he declared to be a
trifle pale but as fresh as a daisy.
'You mightjust as well do that as embroidery,' he would say,
tugging her car. 'And it's not too bad, either, there's a sort of
astringency and determination in them that almost adds up to a
personal style. . . So keep at it and let yourselfgo, just paint as
you feel.'
Old Moranddidnot, ofcourse, makehisliving from his shop.
Forhim it was an inveterate hobby, a secretartistic bent that had
neverbrokenthroughbutwasnowemerginginhisdaughter. He
owned his house and he had benefited from a series oflegacies;
peoplereckoned he had an incomeofsixoreightthousand francs
ayear. Despitethis, hestill soldartists' materialsinhispokylittle
ground-floor drawing-room whose window was the window of
his shop: a narrow shop-window full oftubes ofpaint, sticks of
Chineseink and brushes and where occasionally someofAdele's
watercolours would appear, sandwiched between small sacred
pictures painted by the Pole. Days would goby withoutasignof
a customer. All the same, old Morand's life was a happy one,
surroundedbythesmellofturpentineandvarnish, and whenever
Madame Morand, an ailing old woman who spent most ofher
time in bed, advised him to get rid ofthe shop, he would take
offence, as a man dimly aware of fulfilling a mission in life.
Though a middle-class reactionary at heart and strictly pious, his
feelingofbeing a failed artist kept him attached to his paltry little
shop. Where else would the townspeople be able to buy their
paints? Ifthe truth be known, nobody did buy any; but it was
always possible that they might want to do so. He refused to
abdicate.
Mademoiselle Addle had grown up in this environment. She-
hadjust celebrated her twenty-second birthday. Short and a trifle
plump, she had a pleasant-looking round face with narrow e\es.
but she was so pale and sallow that nobocK thought of her M
pretty. She seemed like a little old woman; her complexion
already had the faded look ofa schoolmistress aged by the secret

312 Fair Exchange
stresses ofspinsterdom. However, Adele was not looking to be
married. There had been suitors but she had turned them all
down. People thought that she was being haughty; no doubt she
was waiting forsome PrinceCharming tocome along; and there
were unpleasant stories circulating with regard to the liberties
which Rennequin, an old reprobate of a bachelor, might be
taking with her. Very 'withdrawn', in common parlance, but in
fact a thoughtful and taciturn girl, Adele seemed quite unaware
ofsuch scandalmongering. Quiteunrebelliousbynature, shewas
used to living in the drab, damp atmosphere of the Place du
College, having become accustomed since childhood to looking
out at all hours ofthe day on to the same moss-covered paving
sets and the same gloomy street crossing which nobody ever
crossed; twice a day only, the pupilsjostled and scurried along
outside the school gates. It was her sole entertainment. Yet she
was never bored. It seemed as ifshe was steadfastly pursuing a
plan ofaction for her life drawn up by herselflong ago. She was
strong-willed, very ambitious and possessed inexhaustible
patience, which led people to fail to understand her true nature.
Gradually, theybegantospeakofherasanoldmaid. Sheseemed
likely to be spending the rest ofher days painting watercolours.
However, when the famous Rennequin called and talked about
Paris, she would listen in silence, pale-facedbut with a sparklein
her tiny eyes.
'Why not send some ofyour watercolours in for the Salon?'*
the painter asked her one day, in the unceremonious tone* he
alwaysusedasanoldfriendofthefamily. 'I'llseetoitthatthey're
accepted.'
She gave a shrug and said without false modesty, though not
without a touch ofbitterness:
'Oh, it's woman's painting. . . It's not worth the trouble, you
know!'
Thecoming ofFerdinand Sourdishad been quitean important
event for old Morand's business. It meant an extra customer and
anextremely valuableone, fornoonein Mercoeureverdisposed
ofsomanytubesofpaintashe. Forthefirstmonth, Morandgave
the young man a great deal ofattention, surprised to see such a
passionate interest in art in one of those 'ushers' whom, after
observing them going past his front door for nearly half a
century, he had come to despise for their grubbiness and sloth.

Fair Exchange 313
But, according to what he heard, this one came from a good
family which had come down in the world, so that after his
parents' death hehad been forcedtoacceptanysituationhecould
find in order not to starve. He was continuing to study painting
with hopesofbecoming independent, going to Parisand perhaps
becoming famous. But a year went by and Ferdinand seemed to
have become resigned to being stuck in Mercoeur by theneed to
earnhis daily bread. Old Morand had becomeused toseeing him
around and no longer paid him any special attention.
However, one evening his daughter asked him a surprising
question. She had been busy drawing under the lamp, trying to
reproduce, with mathematical accuracy, a photograph of a
Raphael and aftera lengthy silence, withoutlooking up, she said:
'Why don't you ask Monsieur Sourdis to let you have one of
his pictures, so that we could put it in the shop window'*
'Mygoodness, that'sright!'exclaimedherfather. 'Whatagood
idea. I've never thought ofasking to see what he does. Has he
ever shown you anything?'
'No,'shereplied. 'Itwasjustathought.
. .
Atleastwe'dseethe
sort ofthing he can do.'
Adele had begun to be obsessed by Ferdinand. She had been
greatlytakenbyhisyouthfulgoodlooksandhissuperbheadoffair
hair, which he wore very short, though his beard was long and
silky, the colour ofgold, and you could see his pink skin under-
neath. He had very gentle blue eyes while his dainty hands and
fingers and dreamy, tender expression suggested a soft, sybaritic
temperament. He would seem unlikely to be capable ofexercising
much will-power, except spasmodically. Indeed, on threeprevious
occasions he had failed to come to work for three weeks; he had
dropped his painting and rumour had it that the young man was
behaving in a most deplorable manner in a certain house that was
the shame ofMercoeur. As he did not return home for two nights
runningandwasdeaddrunk when hedid returnoneevening, there
was talk for a while ofdismissing him; but he was so charming
when he was sober that they kept him on despite these escapades.
Old Morandavoided mentioningthesethings tohisdaughter: these
ushers' wereall birdsofa feather, a completely immoral lot; and as
such conduct scandalized his middle-classsenseofpropnetv. hehad
adopted a distant manner towards the young man. while still
keeping a soft spot for the artist

314 Fair Exchange
Nevertheless, thanks to the indiscreet gossip of their maid,
Adele knew all about Ferdinand's dissipated habits. However,
she, too, said nothing although she thought a good deal about
such matters and had felt so angry with the young man that she
had made herselfscarce as soon as she saw him coming towards
the shop, so that she would not have to serve him. It was at this
time that Ferdinand had begun to preoccupy her and all sorts of
vague ideas had started stirring in her mind. He had become
interesting. Each time he went by, she would follow him with
hereyes and then, withher head bentoverher watercolours, she
would remain meditating for the whole day.
'Well, is he going to bring you a picture?' she asked her father
one Sunday, having arranged the day before for her father to
serve Ferdinand when he had called to make his purchases.
'Yes, heis,' repliedMorand, 'buthetook alotofpersuading. I
don't know whether it was false modesty or not but he kept
making excuses and saying that they weren't worth exhibiting.
He's letting us have the picture tomorrow.'
Next day when Adele came back from a visit to theold ruined
castleofMercoeur where she had gone sketching, shestopped in
front ofan unframed canvas placed on an easel standing in the
middle of the shop and examined it closely. It was Ferdinand
Sourdis's picture. It showed the bottom ofa wide moat whose
high green bank formed a horizontal line against the blue sky; in
the moat, a group ofschoolboys out for a walk were playing
together, while the master in charge of them was lying in
the grass reading. The painter had obviously drawn the subject
from life; but what Adele found quite disconcerting was a
certainvibrancyofcolourandaboldnessoflinewhichsheherself
would never have dared to attempt. In her own work she had
reached such an extraordinary mastery of technique that she
could achieve the elaborate effects of Rennequin and of some
other painters whose work she admired; but in this unknown
painter's temperament there was a new personal touch which
took her by surprise.
'Well, what do you think of it?' asked her father who was
standing behind her waiting to hear her opinion.
Shewasstill looking. Finally, withsomehesitation butfinding
the work none the less attractive, she murmured:
'It's interesting. . . It's very nice. . .'

Fair Exchange 315
She went back to look at the picture several times, with a
serious expression on her face. Nextday, as shewasexamining it
again, Rennequin, who happened to be in Mercoeur, came into
the shop and gave a slight exclamation:
'Goodness me! What's that?'
He was gazing at it in amazement. Then, drawing up a chair,
he sat down in front ofthe painting and examined it in detail,
with growing enthusiasm.
'It's very odd. . . There's such delicacy and truth in the
tones . . . Just look at the white of those shirts against the
green... And there's originality, too, a really individual note!
Tell me, little girl, it can't have been you who painted that,
surely?'
Adele was listening, red in the face, as ifthese compliments
were being addressed to herself. She replied hurriedly:
'Ohno, it'sthatyoungman, youknow, theschoolteachernext
door.'
'Really? It's a bit like your work,' the painter went on. 'Your
work, but with more force. . . Oh, so it's that young man. Well,
he's gottalent, bags oftalent. A picturelikethat wouldhavealot
ofsuccess at the Salon.'
Rennequin happened to be dining with the Morands that
evening, an honour he paid them each time he visited Mercoeur.
He talked painting the whole evening, returning several times to
the subject of Ferdinand Sourdis, whom, he was promising
himselfto call on and encourage. Without saying a word, Adele
sat listening to him talking about Paris, and his life and triumphs
in the capital. A pensive furrow was creasing her pale, girlish
forehead, as though an idea was slowly creeping into her mind
and refusing to go away.
Ferdinand's picture was framed and put on exhibition in the
shop window; the Leveque girls came to look at it but found it
lacking in 'finish', whiletheveryanxious Polespread the rumour
through the town that it represented a new school of painting
which rejected Raphael. However, the picture was successful:
people found it 'nice' and families flocked to identify the school-
boys depicted in it. Ferdinand's situation in the school was.
however, not thereby improved. Some of the senior masters
were scandalized by the stir caused by the 'usher' who had
unscrupulously used as models the children placed in Ins case
_

316 Fair Exchange
Nevertheless, theschoolagreedtokeephimon, onconditionthat
hepromisedtobemorecarefulinfuture. WhenRennequincalled
on Ferdinand to offer his congratulations, he found the young
man very downhearted, almost in tears and talking ofgiving up
painting altogether.
'Cheer up,' he said in his blunt, jovial way. 'You've got talent
enough to snap your fingers at all those idiots. And don't worry,
yourday will come and you'll beable toescape from your present
troubles,just as other fellow painters have done. In my time, I've
workedasabricklayer, youknow. Meanwhile, themainthingisto
keep on working.'
Anew
life
nowopenedupforFerdinand. Hegraduallybecamea
friend ofthe Morands. Adele had begun to copy his picture The
Walk. Shewasdeterminedtogiveupwatercoloursandtryherhand
atoils. Rennequin'scommenthadbeenverydiscerning:asanartist,
shehadthegracefulqualitiesoftheyoungpainterbutshelackedhis
masculinity; in anycase, herstyleofpainting wasalreadysimilarto
Ferdinand's with an even greater skill and flexibility which made
lightoftechnicaldifficulties. Herslowcarefulcopyingofhispicture
broughtthem closertogether. Adeletook Ferdinand'stechniqueto
pieces, as it were, and soon mastered his methods so successfully
thathewasamazedtoseethissortofartisticdoublewhointerpreted
and gave a literal reproduction of his work with a completely
femininediscernment. Itwaslikehim, fullofcharmbutina minor
key. In Mercoeur, Adele's copy had much greater success than
Ferdinand'soriginal. Meanwhile, all sortsofscandalous gossip was
beginning to circulate about the couple.
In fact, Ferdinand gave little thought to such things. Adele did
nottempt him in theslightest; hehadhisownvicioushabits which
he was able to satisfy abundantly elsewhere and this left him
completely cold towards this conventional middle-class girl whose
sallow complexion and poorfigurehefound mostunattractive. He
treated her purely as a fellow painter. Theironly conversation was
about painting. His imagination was becoming fired; his talk was
full ofdreams ofgoing to Paris and he would refer bitterly to his
povertythatkepthimstuckinMercoeur. Ah, ifonlyhehadenough
toliveon, howhe'dlovetogetawayfromschoolmastering!He felt
sure he'd beSuccessful. That miserable question ofmoney and the
need to earn his living threw him into a fury ofanger. She would
listen solemnly, seeming to be examining the question and weigh-

Fair Exchange 317
ing up his chances of success. Then, without going into any
explanation, she would tell him not to be downhearted.
Suddenly, onemorning, oldMorandwasfounddeadinhisshop,
struck down by apoplexy while unpacking a case of paints and
brushes. A fortnight went by. Ferdinand had avoided intrudingon
thedaughter'sandhermother'sgrief. Whenhenextcalled, nothing
seemed changed. Adcle, dressed in black, was painting; Madame
Morand wasdozinginherbedroom. Sotheyresumedtheirformer
habits, their conversations about art and dreams of triumphant
success in Paris. However, the two young people now enjoyed a
greatermeasureofintimacy, thoughapurelyintellectualone, forno
wordofloveortendernessorover-familiarityevercametodisturb
their friendship.
Oneevening, Adele, moresolemn than usual, afterlooking long
and searchingly at Ferdinand, made up her mind to come to the
point, doubtlessfeelingthatbynowsheknewhimwellenoughand
that the time ofdecision had arrived.
'Listen, Ferdinand,'shesaid, 'I'vebeenwantingtotalktoyoufor
a long time about a plan ofmine. I'm alone in the worldnow, my
mother hardly counts. So I hope you'll forgive me ifI speak to
you directly
Somewhat surprised, he sat waiting forhertocontinue. Then,
quite without embarrassment, she reminded him how he was
alwayscomplainingabouthislackofmoney, thathecouldbecome
famous in very few years ifonly he could find the initial backing
whichheneededtoworkindependentlyandmakehismarkinParis.
'Well,'shesaidfinally, 'let mecometoyourrescue. My fatherhas
left me an income ofeight thousand francs a year and I can have it
straightaway because he also made provision for my mother. She
doesn't need me.'
Ferdinand started protesting: he couldn't accept such a sacrifice,
he couldn't possibly deprive her ofher money. She stared at him.
realizing that he had failed to understand.
'We would go and live in Paris,' she continued slowly, we
could look forward to the future together.'
Then, seeing the scared look on his face, she smiled and.
stretching out her hands, said to him in a frank, tnendlv voice:
'Ferdinand, will you niarrv me? You'd be doing me a favour,
became you know I'm ambitious. I've always had dreams of
brcommg famous and I shall be. through you.1

318 Fair Exchange
He was at a loss forwords, unable to recover from the shock of
thissuddenproposal, whileshemeanwhilecalmlyfinishedexplain-
ingtheplanthatshehadbeenworkingoutforsolong. Finally, she
adopted a motherly tone: shewould requireonly one thing as part
of her bargain: he must swear to behave properly. Genius was
useless without orderliness. And she gave him to understand that
she knew about his wild habits and though this did not deter her,
sheintended to reform him. Ferdinand understood the bargain she
was offering him perfectly well: she was putting upthe money, he
wouldhave to providethefame forboth ofthem. Hedidn'tlove
her, he even felt at that moment repugnance at the thought of
havingtosleepwithher. However, hewentdownonhiskneesto
thank her, althoughhecould find onlythesewords to say to her,
which sounded insincere to him as soon as they were uttered:
'You'll be my good angel. .'
.
Then, despitethecoldnessofhernature, shefeltasuddensurgeof
emotion: she hugged him and kissed him on the face. Her hitherto
dormantpassionswereawakening; shewascaptivatedbyhisblond
good looks and the bargain she was striking was also providing a
release for her long pent-up desires. She was in love.
Threeweekslater, FerdinandSourdishadceasedtobeabachelor.
He had capitulated, not as a premeditated scheme but because he
had been driven to it by necessity and a set ofcircumstances from
whichhewasunabletoescape. ThegoodwillofoldMorand'sshop
hadbeensoldtoasmalllocalstationers'. MadameMorandwasused
to being alone and had accepted everything with great placidity.
And so theyoung couplehadsetoffatoncefor Paris, taking The
Walk with them in their baggage and leaving Mercoeurin a state
ofshock at this sudden dramatic ending to its speculations. The
Leveque girls went about saying that Madame Sourdis would
arrive in the capitaljust in time to have her baby.
2
ItwasMadameSourdiswhosawtothesettingupoftheirhome.
It was a flat in the Rue d'Assas with a big bay-windowed studio
overlooking the trees ofthe Luxembourg gardens. As thecouple's
resources were limited, Adele performed miracles in producing a
comfortable home without excessive expense. She wanted to keep
Ferdinand close at hand and provide him with a studio that he

Fair Exchange 319
would like. And indeed, in the beginning, their life together in
the heart ofthe great capital was delightful.
Winter was drawing to an end. The fine days in early March
were most agreeable. As soon as he learnt ofthe presence ofthe
painterandhis young wife, Rennequin hurried round toseehim.
Their marriage had not surprised him, although he was usually
very critical ofsuch matches between artists; according to him,
they always turned out badly, for one ofthe two was bound to
gobble up the other. So Ferdinand would gobble up Adele and
that would be that; and good luck to him, since he needed the
money. Hemightaswellhavearatherunattractivegirl inhisbed
as have to eat bad meals in cheap restaurants.
When Rennequin went in, he saw The Walk, elaborately
framed, on an easel standing in the middle ofthe studio.
'Ha, ha!' he exclaimed jovially, 'I see you've brought the
masterpiece with you!'
He sat down and once again launched into an admiring
commentary on the delicacy of the tones and originality of
conception ofthe picture. Then, suddenly:
'I hope you'll put it in for the Salon. It's bound to be a great
success. You've comejust in time.'
. .
'That's exactly what I've been advising him to do,' said Adele
quietly, 'but he can't make up his mind, he'd like to make his
debut with something bigger and more complete.'
On hearing this, Rennequin became very annoyed. Youthful
works wereborn underanespeciallyluckystar. Ferdinand might
perhapsneveragainfindthefreshnessofimpression, theboldness
and lack ofsophistication ofthis first work. Only an idiot could
fail to realize that. Adele smiled at the violence ofhis tone. Her
husband was surely destined for great things and she had every
hopethathewouldgoonandpaintsomethingbetter;butshewas
delighted to hear Rennequin taking such a strong stand against
Ferdinand'sstrangelast-minutequalms. So it wasagreed that The
Walk should be submitted the very next day. the final entry date
tor the Salon was only three days off. There was no doubt that
the picture would be accepted, for Rennequin was one ot the
judges and extremely influential.
Tin Walk was indeed accepted and had enormous SUCCeSfl \ or
six weeks, the public thronged in front o\ the painting and. as
often happens m Paris, Ferdinand became famous overnight. He

320 Fair Exchange
even had the luck to arouse controversy, which doubled his
success. While there were no outright attacks, some people
criticized certain details which others passionately defended. In a
word, The Walk was deemed to be a minor masterpiece and the
official authorities immediately offered to buy itforsix thousand
francs. It had the necessary spice oforiginality to whet thejaded
appetite of the majority of the public without any outrageous
display oftemperament on the part ofthe painter which might
have offended some people: in a word, the exact mixture of
novelty and vigour that the public required. It was a magical
balanceofpleasant qualities and peopleacclaimed the adventofa
new star in the artistic firmament.
While her husband was suddenly enjoying such rapturous
praisefromthepressandthegeneralpublicalike, Adele, whohad
submitted a few of her Mercoeur works, some very delicate
watercolours, received no notice whatsoever, either from the
visitors to the Salon or in the newspapers. But she was not
envious and did not even feel hurt in her artistic pride; her pride
was entirely bound up with her handsome Ferdinand. This
withdrawn girl who had been mouldering away in thedamp and
gloomydepthsoftheprovincesfortwenty-twoyears, thisfrigid,
sallow-faced, conventionallittlemisshadsuddenlyturnedintoan
extraordinarily passionate woman, in heart and mind. She
worshipped Ferdinand's golden beard, his pink flesh, the grace
and charm of his whole person; she was jealous of him and
unhappy when he was away for even a short time; she kept
constant watch over his movements, for fear that some other
woman might steal him from her. When she looked at herselfin
the mirror, she was acutely conscious of her inferiority, her
dumpy figure and her already fading complexion. It was he, not
she who provided the beauty in their marriage and she even felt
she owed him what she should have claimed herself. Her heart
meltedatthethoughtthateverythingcamefromhim. Shewould
reflect in admiration on his masterly skill as a painter and would
be filled with boundless gratitude at the realization that she was
anequalpartnerinhistalent, hissuccess, hiscelebrityandthatshe
would be able to rise to dazzling heights offame at his side. All
her dreams were coming true, not now through herself but
through another self whom she loved as a disciple, as a mother
and as a wife. And even, in her heart ofhearts, her pride would

Fair Exchange 321
whisper to her that Ferdinand would be her creation and that,
after all, everything was owed to her.
During these first few months, life in the studio in the Rue
d'Assaswassheermagic, dayin, dayout. Despiteher feelingthat
somuchofwhatshehadcamefrom Ferdinand, Adeledidnotfeel
in the least humiliated, for the thought that it was she who had
been instrumental in bringing all this to pass was sufficient. With
a tender smileon herlips, she watched theblossoming happiness
which she had sought and engineered. Without pettiness or
meanness of any sort, she could say to herself that it was her
money and her money alone which had made this happiness
possible. So she kept her place, realizing that she was necessary.
Her admiration and worship was a tribute freely given by a
person glad to abdicate her personality in support ofa work that
she looked on as her own and on which she intended to live. In
the Luxembourg gardens, the tall trees were putting on green
leaves, thetwitteringofbirds floatedinto thestudio on the warm
breezes of the lovely spring days and every morning fresh
newspapers would arrive, full of praise. Ferdinand was being
photographed and his painting was being reproduced by every
possible process and in every possible format. And so with
childlike joy, the young newly-weds basked in this blaze of
publicity, in the knowledge that, as they sat eating together at
theirlittletablein theircharmingquietretreatinthe Rued'Assas,
Paris, that great and glorious capital, was interested in them.
Meanwhile Ferdinand had not yet begun working again. He
waslivinginsogreatafeverofexcitementthatheclaimedhewas
incapable of handling a brush as he would have liked. Three
months wentbyandstill hekeptputtingoffhisstudies foralarge
picture which he had long had in mind to paint: a painting which
he had baptized The Lake. It would depict an avenue in the Hois
de Boulogne, seen at the time ofday when the long queue of
carriages drives slowly along in the golden light of the setting
sun. Hehadalready been to makea fewsketches butheno longer
seemed to feel the divine spark that had inspired him during his
hard times as a poverty-stricken usher. His present well-being
seemed to have quenched his ardour; also, he was enjoying his
sudden fame too much to want to risk forfeiting it in a fresh
work. For the moment, he was always out and about, frequently
vanishing in the morning and not reappearing until evening On

322 Fair Exchange
two or three occasions, he came home very late. He was always
finding differentpretexts to goout andnot comeback: hewould
be visiting a studio or a show by some contemporary artist; he
had to collect material for his future work; above all, he was
dining out with friends. He had run across a number ofhis old
Lille friends, he was already a member ofseveral artistic groups;
all these activities launched him on a continual round ofpleasure
andhe would comehomein astateoffeverish exhilaration, with
shining eyes and talking very loudly.
AsyetAdelehadrefrainedfrommakinganyprotest. Although
extremely unhappy at his growing self-indulgence which was
depriving her ofher husband and leaving her constantly alone at
home, she was trying to stifle herjealousy and fears: Ferdinand
had to manage his own affairs; an artist wasn't a grocer who
could stay comfortablybyhisown fireside; hehadto gooutinto
society, he owed it to himself to further his reputation. She
almost felt remorse at her secret resentment when Ferdinand put
on his act ofa man worn out bysocial obligations, swearing that
he was 'fed up' and that he would have given his right arm to be
ableto stayat homewith his darling littlewife. Once itwaseven
she herself who sent him off when he was pretending to be
reluctant to go to an exclusively male luncheon party wherehe
would be introduced to a very wealthy collector. Then, left
alone, Adele would cry. She was trying to be brave and yet she
was continually imagining her husband with other women; she
feltthathe was being unfaithful and this madeherso unwell that
sometimesshehad totaketoherbedassoonashehadlefttheflat.
Rennequin would often call to pick up Ferdinand and she
would try tojoke about it:
'Now, you'll be good little boys, won't you? You know, I'm
putting him in your charge. .'
.
'Don't worry,' the painter would laugh. 'Ifsomeone tries to
makeoffwith him, I'll bethere. . . In anycase, I'll bring backhis
hat and stick, at least.'
She trusted Rennequin. Since he, too, was going out with
Ferdinand, the outing must bejustified. She'd get used to it. But
she would sigh when she remembered their first few weeks
togetherinParis, beforealltheupsetcausedbytheSalonandthey
Now
used to spend their days happily togetherin the studio. she
was the only one working there, for she had gone back to her

Fair Exchange 323
watercolourpaintingwithfranticenergy, towhileawaythetime.
As soon as Ferdinand had disappeared round the corner of the
streetwithafinal farewell wave, shewouldclosethewindowand
settle down to her task. He was gallivanting about all over the
town, God alone knew where, visiting all sorts ofshady haunts
and coming home dog-tired, with bloodshot eyes, while she sat
patiently at her little table, all day and every day, doggedly
painting the studies for pictures that she had brought with her
from Mercoeur, sentimental little landscapes that she was paint-
ing with an increasingly impressiveskill. Shedescribed it, with a
wry smile, as her embroidery.
One evening she had stayed up late waiting for Ferdinand,
absorbed in a pencil drawing of an engraving, when she was
startledtoheara dull thudjustoutsidethestudiodoor. Shecalled
out and then decided to open thedoor, where she discovered her
husband slowly getting to his feet, with an inane laugh. He was
drunk.
As white as a sheet, Adele helped him to his feet and half
dragged, halfliftedhimintotheirbedroom. Hekeptapologizing;
his speech was slurred and incoherent. Without a word, she
helped him to undress. Then, when hewas drunkenlysnoringin
bed, completely deadtotheworld, shespenttherestofthenight,
wide awake in an armchair, her pale forehead furrowed in
thought. Next morning, she made no mention ofhis scandalous
behaviourofthe previous night. He was deeply embarrassed and
still bemused, with swollen eyes and a bitter taste in his mouth.
His wife'ssilenceincreased hisembarrassmentand fortwowhole
days he stayed at home and shamefacedly set to work on his
painting, like a schoolboy eager and anxious to be forgiven for
somemisdemeanour. Hesetaboutlayingoutthemain linesor his
picture, consulting Adele and trying hard to show how much he
valued herjudgement. At first, she remained coldly silent, .is a
living reproach, although still making not the slightest reference
to what had occurred. Then, seeing how contrite he was. she
became her natural, kindly self again; everything was tacitly
forgiven and forgotten. But on the third day, Renneqiun came CO
pick up his young friend to take him Co dinner at tin
Anglais* to meet a well-known art critic. Adele had to wait up
until four o'clock tor her husband and when he did eventually
come home, he was bleeding from an open nit over his left eye,

324 Fair Exchange
causedbyabottleinthecourseofabrawlinsomelowhaunt. She
put him to bed and dressed his wound. Rennequin had left him
on the boulevards at eleven o'clock.
Fromnowon, the patternwas set. Ferdinand couldneveraccept
aninvitationtodinnerorapartyorstayoutintheeveningonsome
pretext or other without coming home in a revolting state. He
would be frightfully tipsy, black and blue from bruises, with his
clothesindisorderandreekingtohighheavenofspiritsorthecheap
scents favoured by street-walkers. He had got into a vicious rut
from which his spineless character made it impossible for him to
escape. Adele maintained her stony silence; each time it happened
she would tend him with icy indifference, never questioning him,
never even slapping his face for his abominable behaviour. She
would makehim tea, holda bowl forhim to besickinto, clean up
afterhim, refusing to wakethe maidinordertokeep his condition
toherself, sinceitwastoodisgustingforadecentpersontorevealto
anyone. Anyway, what would have been the point ofquestioning
him?Each timeittookplace, shecouldeasilyreconstructthescene:
afewdrinkswithfriendstosethimgoing, awildrampagethrough
the unsavoury night haunts of the capital, drunken debauchery,
crawling from bar to bar with stray drinking companions, picking
up women on the streets, brawling with soldiers for their favours
andfinallysatisfyinghissqualidlustinsomefilthylittleatticroom.
Sometimes she would discover strange addresses stuffed into his
pockets and unmentionableobjects, allsorts ofdisgustingevidence
which she would hastily burn in order not to learn about such
things. Whenoneofhis womenhadscratchedhimwithhernailsor
he had come home filthy and injured, she would merely take a
tighterholdonherselfandwashhiminsuchscornfulsilencethathe
did not dare to utter a word. Then, the day after these spectacular
nights ofriotous living, he would wake up and find her as tight-
lipped as ever; as neither ofthem mentioned it, it seemed to them
that they had both lived through a bad dream. And so life would
begin again as before.
Only once, in a fit ofuncontrollable tenderness, Ferdinand had
suddenly flung both arms round her neck when he woke up. He
was sobbing as he gasped brokenly:
'Forgive me, oh please forgive me!'
Obviously disconcerted, she had pretended to be surprised and
pushed him away, saying:

Fair Exchange 325
'What do you mean, forgive you? You haven't done anything
to forgive. I'm not grumbling.'
And this dogged refusal to acknowledge his shortcomings and
herfemalesuperiorityinself-controlandmasteryofheremotions
had made Ferdinand feel like a naughty little boy.
In fact, Adele's attitude was concealing agonized disgust and
anger. Both her religious upbringing and her sense of decency
and human dignity were completely outraged by Ferdinand's
behaviour. Each timehe came home stinking ofviceand she had
to touch him with her hands and spend the rest of the night
smellinghisbreath, shewasfilledwithnauseaandcontempt. But
beneath thecontempt, therelaya dreadfuljealousydirectedathis
friends and at the women who sent him back to hersosoiled and
degraded. She would have enjoyed seeing those women dying in
the gutter; she thought of them as monsters and could not
understand why the police didn't shoot them on sight. But her
lovewasundiminished. When, oncertainnights, themanhimself
filled her with disgust, she would console herselfby her admira-
tion for the artist; and this admiration became in a way purified,
for with her conventional middle-class notion ofthe typical man
ofgenius fated to live a wild bohemian life, she had ended by
accepting Ferdinand's conduct as being the dunghill on which
alone great works ofart could flourish. Indeed, if, as a woman,
she was shocked by his callous disregard for her own affection
and delicacy of feeling, she blamed him perhaps even more
strongly for his failure to fulfil his obligations as an artist, for
breaking the pact they had made whereby she would supply the
material means in return for which hewould providethe fame. It
was a breach offaith which she deeply resented and she began to
cast about to find ways and means ofrescuing the painter even
should the man sink without trace. It was up to her to be strong
for it was she who now had to be the master.
In lessthanayear, Ferdinand felt himselfreduced tothelevelof
a littleboy; hehad fallen completely under Adele's thumb. In this
survivalofthe fittest, shehadproved to bethe male. Each timehe
had fallen by the wayside and, sternly but without uttering .»
word ofblame, she had condescended to are tor him. he had
<.
hung his head in shame and humiliation, sensing her contempt.
I here was no room for lies between them: she represented BWCCl
reasonableness, decency andstrength whilehe was theepitomeof

326 Fair Exchange
weakness and degradation. The thing which he found most
painful and made him utterly powerless in her presence was the
fact that her implacable condemnation was based on full know-
ledgeofhis guiltandher cold contempt was capableofforgiving
without feeling the need to reprimand him. It was as if any
explanation would destroy their dignity as a couple. She was
maintaining her silence in order to remain high above him and
not abase herself, with the risk ofbeing sullied by his filth. Had
she lost her temper, had she flung his despicable one-night
amours in his face like any frantic, jealous wife, he would
certainly have suffered less. If she had been prepared to come
down to his level, she might have raised him up; but how small
he felt, how immeasurably inferior, when he woke up, ashamed
and fully aware that she knew all but would never lower herself
to utter one word ofreproof!
Meanwhile, hispicturewasprogressing, forhehadrealizedthat
his only superiority lay in his painting. When he was working,
Adele would once again become the tender-hearted wife and
bring herself down to his level; she would stand respectfully
behind him and study his picture and the better his day's work
hadbeen, themoredeferentialshewould become. Atsuchtimes,
it was he who was the master; the male was asserting his proper
role in the family. But he was now becoming subject to
paralysing fits oflaziness. When he came home exhausted, as if
drainedofenergyby thesortoflifehewasleading, hishands felt
weak, he was full of hesitation, he could no longer paint
decisively. Some mornings, his whole being seemed gripped by
an overwhelming feeling ofimpotence. At such times, he would
fritter away the whole day in front ofhis easel, picking up his
palette only to fling it down again a moment later, fretting and
fuming with rage and unable to do anything at all; or else he
would lie down and sleep like a log on the settee, not waking up
until evening with an appalling migraine. On these days, Adele
would watch him in silence, creeping around on tiptoe in order
nottoirritatehimorscareawaytheinspiration thatwouldsurely
come. Shebelievedin inspiration, thatinvisibleflamethat would
dart in through the window and settle on the chosen artist's
brow. Andthenshe, too, wouldbeseizedbydiscouragementand
anxiety at the thought, as yet not clearly formulated, that
Ferdinand might fail her, like a defaulting business partner.

Fair Exchange 327
It was February and the Salon was approaching. The Lake was
still not nearly completed. The main part had been done,
inasmuch as the canvas was entirely covered; but apart from
certain sections that were quite well advanced, all the rest was
blurred and unfinished. It was barely more than a rough sketch
and could certainly never be submitted in that state. It needed to
be pulled together, it lacked the highlights and the finish which
gives a work its value as a painting. Ferdinand was now making
no progress whatsoever, losing himself in finicky details, un-
doing in the evening what he had painted during the day,
spinning helplessly like a frenzied top. One evening as dusk was
falling, when Adele returned from a distant shopping excursion,
sheheardthesoundofsobscomingfromthedarkenedstudioand
was moved to see her husband sitting slumped on his chair in
front ofhis easel.
'You're crying!' she exclaimed. 'What's the matter?'
'No, nothing's the matter,' he replied brokenly.
He had sunk into his chair and for the last hour had sat gazing
vacantly at his canvas, even when the failing light had made it
invisible. Everything was dancing in front ofhis blurred eyes.
His work seemed to him an absurd, pitiful and chaotic mess and
he felt paralysed, as weak as a child, powerless to bring any sort
oforderinto this confused massofcolours. Then, when darkness
had gradually hidden the canvas and even the brighter colours
had been obliterated, he had been overcome by an immense
sadness which seemed to be throttling him. It was then that he
had burst into sobs.
'Butyou arecrying, Ican feelit,' saidAdele, runningherhands
over his cheeks bathed in warm tears. 'Are you in pain?'
He was choked by a renewed burst ofsobbing and was unable
to reply. Then, forgetting her resentment and giving way to her
compassion for this poor, failed creature, she gave him. in the
darkness, a motherly kiss. He was bankrupt.
Next day Ferdinand had to ^o out after lunch and when he
came back a couple of hours later, as he was Standing as usual
absorbed in front of his painting, he suddenly gave a muttered
exclamation:

'
328 Fair Exchange
'Well I'm damned! Someone's been touching my picture.'
Part ofthe sky and a small section offoliage on the left had
been finished. Adele was bending over her table busily concen-
tratingononeofherwatercoloursandatfirstmadenocomment.
'Who on earth can have taken such a liberty?' Ferdinand went
on, more surprised than annoyed. 'Has Rennequin been in?'
'No,' said Adeleatlast, 'it was me, I did itjust for fun. It's not
at all important, I only did some ofthe background.'
Ferdinand gave an embarrassed laugh.
'So you want to collaborate with me, do you? Well, I think
you've got the general tone very nicely, only there's one high-
light there that needs toning down a bit.'
'Where's that?' she enquired, getting up from her table. 'Oh
yes, I see, it's that branch.'
Shepicked up a brushand madethenecessaryalteration, while
he stood watching her. After a pause, he began to make other
suggestions, as though speaking to a pupil, while she went on
painting the sky. Without anything being said, it became under-
stood that she would undertake to finish offthe backgrounds.
Time was short and they had tohurry And he pretended that
. . .
he was not feeling very well, a statement that she accepted
without demur.
'AsI'mnotveryfitatthemoment,' hewouldsay, 'yourhelpis
going to come in very useful. The backgrounds aren't all that
important. . .
From that moment, he was completely reconciled to the sight
ofher standing in front ofhis easel. Now and again he got up
from the settee with a yawn and came over to have a look and
pass a briefjudgement on the work, sometimes making her go
oversomeofit again. As a teacher, hewas very strict. Nextday,
still complaining that he was feeling even more under the
weather, he told her that she should first go ahead with the
backgrounds before he finished the foregrounds himself; he felt
that that would make the work easier, the situation would be
clearer and they would progress more rapidly. So he was able to
enjoy a week ofutter idleness, spending long periods asleep on
thesetteewhilehis wifestood all day paintinginsilence. Then he
bestirred himselfand tackled the foregrounds. However, he did
notwanthertogofarawayandwheneverhegrewimpatient, she
would calm him down and herself complete the details as he

Fair Exchange 329
pointed them out to her. She would often send him off into
theLuxembourggardenstotakea breathoffreshair: ashewasn't
feeling very well, he must take care ofhimself; it was doing him
no good at all to get excited like that. Her concern was
very affectionate. Then, once he was out of the way, she set
rapidly to work with feminine determination, not hesitating to
get on with the foregrounds as quickly as possible. He had
reachedsuchastateofenervationthathedidnotevennoticehow
muchshehaddonewhilehewasawayor, atanyrate, hemadeno
comment on it; he seemed to think that the painting was going
ahead all on its own. Within the fortnight, The Lake was com-
pleted. But Adele herself was not satisfied. She still felt that
something was definitely lacking. When a relieved Ferdinand
declared that the picture was very good, she shook her head
unenthusiastically.
'What on earth do you want, then?' he snapped angrily. 'We
can't kill ourselves doing it!'
What she wanted was for him to give the picture his own
personal touch and, by dint of patience and willpower, she
managed to perform the miracle ofinfusing him with sufficient
energy to do it. For one more week, she nagged at him and
encouraged him. He never left the flat; she aroused him with her
caressesandintoxicatedhim withheradmiration. Then, onceshe
feltthathewassufficientlystimulated, shethrust his brushes into
his hand and kept him standing for hours in front ofhis picture,
talking, discussing and generally putting him into such a state of
excitement that he was like a giant refreshed. In this way he
reworked the whole picture, going back over what Adele had
doneandadding the vigorousindividual touch which it lacked. It
might not have seemed much but in fact it was everything: the
entire painting had come to life.
Adele was overjoyed. Once again, the future looked rosy
Sinceworkinglonghourstired herhusband, she would help him.
It would be a more private mission, a secret happiness which
filled her with hope. But shejokingly made Ferdinand swear not
to reveal her part in the painting: it wasn't worth mentioning, it
would embarrass her. He expressed surprise but made his
promise- 1 k felt nojealousy towarils Adele as an artist: he always
went about Saying that she knew the painter's trade better than
he, which was true.

330 Fair Exchange
When Rennequin came to see The Lake, he stood looking at it
foralongtimewithoutsayingaword. Thenheofferedhisyoung
friend his very sincere congratulations.
'It's certainly more finished than The Walk,' he said. 'The
background's incredibly light and delicate and the foreground's
very spirited and vigorous . . . Yes, it's really good, really
original.'
Hewasobviouslysurprisedbuthedidnotreveal thereasonfor
his surprise. This young fellow-me-lad had nonplussed him; he
would never have thought him capable ofsuch skilful technique;
he also found something new in his painting. All the same,
although he did not say so, he preferred The Walk, for although
certainly more slipshod and less polished, it was more personal.
So, despite the surer, broader, treatment of The Lake, he still
found it less attractive because he could detect in it a more
conventional, deliberate, approach, with a hint ofprettiness and
over-elaboration. This impression did not prevent him from
saying as he left:
'Remarkable, mydearboy You'regoingtobeatremendous
. . .
success.'
His prophecy came true. The success of The Lake was even
greater than that of The Walk. The women particularly raved
aboutit: itwas exquisite. Thecarriageswith theirflashing wheels
gliding along in the sunshine, the tiny fashionably dressed
figures, the bright specks of colour bringing out the vivid
greenery ofthe Bois, charmed those members ofthe public who
look upon painting as a decorative art similar to that of a
goldsmith. But even severe critics, those who expect vigour and
logic from a work ofart, were attracted by its painterlyskills, an
excellent understanding of overall effect and its rare level of
execution. But the predominant impression, the one which finally
won the total approval of the general public, was the graceful,
slightly finical, individuality ofthe style. All the critics agreed that
Ferdinand Sourdis was 'coming on well'. Only one of them,
notoriouslyoutspokenand heartilydislikedforhisimperturbable
way ofspeaking the truth, dared to write that, should the painter
continue to elaborate and emasculate his style, he would give him
less than five years to ruin his precious gift oforiginality.
In the Rue d'Assas, there was great satisfaction. This was no
longer the unexpected success ofa tyro but a definitive recogni-

Fair Exchange 331
tion that Ferdinand ranked among the best painters ofthe age.
What is more, he was becoming prosperous: commissions were
beginning to flow in from every quarter, and buyers were
competing, cashin hand, for thelittlecanvases leftlying about in
his studio. He had to get down to work.
Amidst this new-found prosperity, Adele kept her head. She
was not miserly but she had been brought up in that provincial
tradition of economy which, as they say, knows the value of
money. As a result, she showed herselfa strict manager and saw
to it that Ferdinand neverfailed to honourhis commitments. She
would make careful note ofhis commissions, ensure that they
were completed on time, and invest the proceeds. Above all, she
exercised relentless pressureonherhusband and ruled him with a
rod ofiron.
Shehad laiddown his wayoflife: somany hours' work before
hecouldrelax. However, sheneverlosthertemper;sheremained,
asalways, dignified and sparing ofwords; but he had behaved so
badly in the past and had allowed her to assume such an
ascendancy over him that he was now terrified ofher. This was
certainly the greatest possible service that she could have done
him, forwithoutherwillpowertosustainhim, hewouldhavelet
things slide and not produced the works which, in fact, he now
managedto produceoveranumberofyears. Shewashisgreatest
strength, his guide and support. This fear which she inspired in
him did not, however, prevent him from sometimes relapsing
into his former disorderly ways; as she refused to pander to his
vicious habits, he would break out and launch into wild bouts of
debauchery, returninghome illand inastateofstuporthatwould
last three or four days. But each time this happened, he was
providing her with fresh ammunition to use against himself She
would look at him with eyes full of an even greater and more
pitiless contempt which would chain him to his easel tor a week
Shesuffered too much as wifeand woman whenever he betrayed
her for her ever to want him to indulge in these escapades from
which he returned in such a repentant and obedient state; ill
thesame, whenever she recognized the symptoms, lus pale eves.
his restless, urgent gestures, and realized that he was racked by
lust, she could hardly wait to see him come reeling back ofl the
streets, a nerveless jelly of a man who would be like wax in
her determined, stumpy hands. With her plain ace, her dull

332 Fair Exchange
complexion, her leathery skin and big bones, she knew that she
was indeed no beauty and so she took her revenge on this
handsome man, who belonged to her, as soon as his fancy
women had bled him white. Moreover, Ferdinand was ageing
rapidly; he had been afflicted by rheumatism, and by the age of
forty his manifold excesses had already turned him into an old
man. Age would inexorably clip his wings.
After The Lake there was a tacit agreement between husband
and wife that they should collaborate. They still kept it a secret
but behind closed doors, they would set to work on the same
picture and make it ajoint effort. Ferdinand supplied his mascu-
line gift ofinspiration and construction; it was he who would
choose the subject, divide it into the appropriate parts and
establish the general layout. The execution ofthe project would
then be handed over to the feminine talent ofAdele, although
Ferdinand would keep certain vigorous passages for himselfto
paint. Indeed, at the beginning, he did most of the painting
himselfand made a point ofnot letting his wife help him except
in minorparts ofthepicture; butas his strength decreasedandhe
gradually lost heart in*his work, he gave up the struggle and let
Adele take over. So, in the nature of things, her collaboration
inevitably increased with each new work, without any intention
on her part to replace his painting by her own. What she
primarily wanted was for the name ofSourdis, which was now
hers as well, not to disappear ingloriously, for his fame, which
hadbeenthisplain, deprivedgirl'sconstantdream, nottodecline;
and, furthermore, shewantednottolettheircustomersdown, to
deliverthe pictures on the promised date, like an honest business
woman whose word is her bond. The result was that she
inevitably found herself forced to complete the paintings in a
hurry, to fillin the gaps leftby Ferdinand and finish the workoff
whenshecouldseehimfumingwithimpotentrageandunableto
hold his brushes in his trembling hands. However, she never
gloatedandalways maintained thepretenceofbeing thepupil, of
restricting her task to that ofajourneyman working under her
husband's instructions. She still respected him as an artist and
genuinely admired him, with the instinctive intuition that,
despitehisdegradation,
hewasstillthemasterwithoutwhomshe
would never have been capable of producing such large-scale
paintings.

Fair Exchange 333
Rcnncquin was following with growing surprise and incom-
prehension this slow supplanting of the male by the female
temperament in their work, although they kept their secret from
him as from all their other fellow painters. Rcnncquin felt that
Ferdinand could hardly be considered to bestrictly on the wrong
track since he was, after all, continuing to produce and keep his
head above water; but his painting was evolving in a direction
that seemed out ofline with his earlier work. His first picture,
The Walk, had revealed a lively, witty individuality; this had
vanished from his later work which was now increasingly
swamped in a soft, fluid impasto, very easy on the eye but more
and more banal. And yet it was the same hand at work; at least,
Rennequin would have sworn that it was, so adept had Adele
become at imitating her husband's technique. She had a genius
for taking other people's methods to pieces and adapting herself
to them. On the other hand, Ferdinand's paintings were now
taking on a kind of vaguely puritanical middle-class feeling of
propriety whichtheoldpainterfoundoffensive. In thebeginning
he had welcomed the very great freedom ofspirit shown by his
gifted young friend and he was now irritated to see this new
formality, asortofstarchyprudishness, inhislaterpainting. One
evening, in a group offellow artists, he could no longer restrain
himself.
'That fellow Sourdis is turning into nothing more than a
preacher!' he exclaimed. 'Have you seen his latest painting? It's
sheer milk and water. All those tarts ofhis have squeezed him
dry. It'stheold, oldstory: youletsomestupidfemalegobbleyou
up. Doyouknow what makes mereally mad?Thefactthat he
. .
canstillpaintquitewell. Youmaylaugh, but I mean it! I'dalways
imagined that ifhe went offthe rails, he'd do it on a grand scale
and finish up an utter shambles, like a man sunk without trace.
Not a bit of it! He seems to have found a sort of clockwork
mechanism whichhecan wind upevery day and itenables him to
churn out his boring stuff ad infinitum. It's a disaster! He's
finished; he can't even paint badly!'
They were used to Rennequin's paradoxical outbursts ind
merely laughed. But he knew what he meant and, being food ot
Ferdinand, he felt sad about it.
Next day he called in at the Rue d'Assas. Seeing the key in the
door, he took the liberty of going in without knocking and

334 Fair Exchange
stopped shortin amazement. TherewasnosignofFerdinandand
Adele was standing in front of the easel, deftly finishing off a
picture which the papers had already started talking about. She
wasso completelyabsorbed in herwork thatshe did nothearthe
dooropeningand didnotrealizethatwhenthemaidhadcomein,
shehadleftthekeyinthedoor. Rennequin wasthusabletostand
watching her for a good minute. She was carrying out her task
withasurenessoftouch indicativeoflongpracticeandputtingon
thepaint with the fluency and facile mechanical perfection which
he had been berating the day before. All at once, he understood
what had happened and the shock was so greatthat, realizing the
full extent ofhis indiscretion, he was on the point ofgoing out
and knocking on the door before coming in again. But at that
moment, Adele looked round.
'Goodgracious, it'syou!' sheexclaimed. 'Howdidyougetin?'
And she went very red in the face. Rennequin, equally em-
barrassed, replied thathehadonlyjustarrived; but, realizingthat
ifhe made no reference to what he had seen the situation would
beeven moreembarrassing, headded in his mosthearty manner:
'Well, well, I can see that we've been running short oftime!
You've been lending Ferdinand a hand. . .'
Her complexion had returned to its normal waxen pallor. She
replied calmly:
'Yes, this picture should have been handed over last Monday
and as Ferdinand has been suffering from his pains again. . . Oh,
it'sjust a couple ofglazes, nothing ofany consequence.'
But she was not deceiving herself; she knew that it was
impossible to fool someone as expert as Rennequin. Neverthe-
less, she made no move but merely stood where she was, still
holding her palette and brushes in her hands. He felt obliged to
say something:
'Don't let me disturb you, just keep going.'
Shegazed at him fora fewseconds beforemakinguphermind
what to do. What was the pointoffurther pretence, now thathe
kneweverything? Andas shehad givenherword thatthepicture
would be ready thatevening, shequickly set to work again, with
a completely unfcminine firmness and boldness oftouch. Draw-
ing up a chair, Rennequin followed her work. At this moment,
Ferdinand came in. At first he seemed shocked to see Rennequin
sittingbehind Adeleandwatchingheratworkonhispicture. But

Fair Exchange 335
he looked very tired and hardly capable ofany strong reaction.
He sank on to a chair beside the older painter, with the sigh ofa
man whose only need is sleep. Silence fell. Ferdinand did not feel
that any explanation was required: that was how things wereand
he didn't mind. However, after a moment, when Adele was
reaching up and slashing bold strokes ofvivid colour on to her
sky. he leaned over towards Rennequin and said in a voice full of
pride:
'You know, old man, she's better than me! How about that
technique, eh? Isn't she stylish!'
Later, when Rennequinleft, perplexedandquiteupset, oncehe
was alone on the staircase he gave vent to his feelings out loud:
'There'sanothergood man gone west! She may stophim from
goingunderbutshe'llneverlethimreachthetop! He'sbuggered!'
Years went by. The Sourdis had bought a little house in
Mercoeur, withagardenlookingoutontotheEsplanade. Atfirst
they came to spend a couple ofmonths there every summer to
escape from the stifling Paris heat inJuly and August. It was a
sort ofpermanent retreat. But, gradually, they lived there more
and more. As they settled in and made themselves a home, they
felt less and less need for Paris. Since the accommodation was
rather cramped, they had a very spacious studio built in the
garden and soon enlarged it with further additions. Now they
found themselves going to the capital during the winter, two or
three months at most; they lived in Mercoeur and kept only a
small flat in Paris, some rooms in a small house which belonged
to them, situated in the Rue de Clichy.*
This withdrawal tothe country had thus taken placegradually,
with no particular foresight on theirpart. When peopleexpressed
surprise. Adele would talk about Ferdinand's poor health and
give the impression that her hand had been forced by the need to
provide her husband with a peaceful open-air environment Hut
thetruth was that she was fulfillingat last a long cherished dream
As a girl she had sat tor hours looking at the wet cobble-stones of
the Place du College and she had indeed dreamt ofa brilliant
future in Paris, amid the plaudits of the crowd, baskinu in the
tame ot the name ofSourdis: but now her dream did not extend

336 Fair Exchange
beyond Mercoeur, in a quiet little corner of the tiny town
surrounded by the respectful admiration ofits surprised inhabi-
tants. Itwasherethatshehadbeenbornandherethatshehadfelt
the continual spur of her ambition to succeed, so much so,
indeed, that the amazement of the good women of Mercoeur
gossiping on their doorsteps, as she walked by arm-in-arm with
her husband, meant more to her than all the praise of the
sophisticated denizens ofParis drawing-rooms. At heart, shehad
remaineda provincial middle-class woman concerned at how her
little town would view each new triumph; every time she went
back there, her heart would beat faster and she would purr with
inner satisfaction at the thought ofthe way in which her obscure
beginnings had blossomed into the fame which now surrounded
her. Hermotherhad died someten years ago andshewas merely
coming back to recover her lost youth which had been dormant
and repressed in her earlier years.
By now the name of Sourdis could hardly have been more
famous: atfifty, thepainterhadreceivedeveryconceivableaward
and honour, all the obligatory medals and crosses and titles. He
was a Commander of the Legion of Honour and had been a
member ofthe Academy for a number ofyears. The only thing
that was still expanding was his wealth; newspapers had long
since run out of superlatives. There were now ready-made
formulas ofpraise which were trotted out at every opportunity:
he was the 'prolific master'; he had 'exquisite charm which won
everyheart'. Butsuchthingsnolongerseemedtointeresthim;he
wasbecomingindifferentandworehishalolikeanoldsuitwhich
he had ceased to notice. When the inhabitants ofMercoeur saw
him go by, with his eyes glazed, already terribly round-
shouldered, their respect was strongly tinged with astonishment
fortheyfounditdifficulttoconceivehow thisweary, withdrawn
old man came to be so famous in the capital.
Inanycase, bynow everyoneknewthat MadameSourdisused
to help her husband in his painting. She had the reputation of
being a most capable woman, although she was so tiny and very
stout. Indeed, this was another cause for astonishment in
Mercoeur, that such a plump lady could stand all day in front of
aneasel withoutherlegsgivingwaybytheevening. Mustbejust
aquestionofhabit, opinedtheworthycitizensofMercoeur. This
collaboration from his wife had had no adverse effect on

Fair Exchange 337
Ferdinand's reputation, indeedquitethe reverse. With herinfallible
tact, Adele had realized that she must not openly expose her
husband as a man of straw; he still signed the paintings, like a
constitutional monarch who reigns but does not rule. Works by
Madame Sourdiswouldhaveimpressednoone, whereas worksby
Ferdinand Sourdis retained all their old power over critics and
public alike. For this reason, she always showed the greatest
admiration for herhusband and. strangely enough, this admiration
wasperfectlygenuine. Althoughhehadreachedthestagewherehe
very rarely picked up a brush, she still looked on him as the real
creatorofthepicturesnowpaintedalmostentirelybyherself Inthis
exchange it was her character which had forced its way into their
joint work, to the point ofdominating it to the exclusion ofher
husband; but she nevertheless still felt dependent on his initial
impulse; she had replaced him by dint ofassimilating him, adopt-
ing, as it were, hissex. The result was freakish. Whenevershewas
showing their works to visitors, she would always say: 'Ferdinand
did this, Ferdinand's going to do that', even when he had not
provided nor would be providing a single brushstroke. She would
flare up at the slightest criticism and would not allow anyone to
questionhisgenius. Herblindfaithinherhusbandwassuperb. Her
angerat hissqualidadulteries, herdisgustand contempt, hadnever
managed to destroy her high opinion of him as the great artist
whom she had loved and goneon lovingeven when that artist had
declined and she had been forced to step into his shoes to avoid
failure. It was a charming touch ofblind simplicity, based on her
mingled pnde and affection, which enabled Ferdinand to live with
hissecretsenseofimpotence. His moral decaydidnotcausehimto
suffer excessively; he, too, would speak of 'my picture', mv
work", without thinking how little ofhis work had gone into the
pictureshewassigningwithhisname. And all this hadcomeabout
so naturally between the two ofthem and he felt so littlejeal
towards this woman, who had even robbed him of his individ-
uality, that he could not talk for more than a few minutes without
starting to praiseher. Hewould keeprepeatingall thetimewhathe
had once said to Rennequin one evening:
ireyou. she's moretalentedthan me. . . I havethe<i
ajob with my drawing whereas she does it in j ' •
fallingoffalog.
. .
Youjustcan't imaginehow cleversr
You've either j >u haven't I haven't and she fa

338 Fair Exchange
People would smile discreetly and see it as a compliment from
a loving husband; yet should anyone show that they thought
highly ofMadame Sourdis as a person but had no great opinion
ofheras an artist, hewould take umbrageand launch into a long
theoretical disquisition on the artistic temperament and the
mechanics ofpainting, always finishing up by asserting:
'And I'mtellingyouthatshe'sbetterthan
I
am! Peoplemustbe
mad not to see it!'
Theywereaveryunitedcouple. Latterly, ageandill-healthhad
greatly subdued Ferdinand. He could no longer drink, for the
slightest excess upset his stomach. Only women were still
capable ofenticing him into his old habits ofdebauchery, bouts
that would last two or three days. But when the couple finally
settled in Mercoeur, the lack of opportunity forced him to
become almost completely faithful. After this, Adele's only
danger would be ifhe took a sudden fancy to one ofher maids.
She had accepted the fact that she must employ only very ugly
ones but that still did not prevent Ferdinand from chancing his
arm, if he could persuade the maid to cooperate; in certain
moods, he had a pathological urge to satisfy his sexual appetites
and gratify his perversions, an urge whichhe was quiteincapable
of controlling, however unpleasant the consequences. Adele
merelychangedhermaidseachtimeshethoughtshedetectedtoo
intimate a relationship between master and servant. Then
Ferdinand would be contrite for a whole week and, even in their
oldage, thiswouldrekindletheirlove. Adelestillworshippedher
husband with the same savage jealousy which she had always
managed to conceal from him; and he, faced by one of her
terrifyingsilences whenshehadhadto dismissa maid, wouldtry
to obtain forgiveness by a display ofcringing affection. At such
times, she would dominate him like a little boy. His sallow face
wasbynowfearfullyravagedanddeeplylined;buthestillhadhis
golden beard, paler but with no trace ofgrey, so that he looked
like some venerable god still possessing the golden charm of
youth.
Then one day, in their Mercoeur studio, Ferdinand was
suddenly overcome by a deep dislike for painting, a sort of
physical revulsion. The smell ofturpentine, the feel ofthe oily
brush on the canvas, threw him into a stateofnervous exaspera-
tion; his hands started to tremble and he was attacked by

Fair Exchange 339
dizziness. No doubt it was a consequence ofhis own incapacity,
the result of an acute crisis in the breakdown in his artistic
faculties, which had been bound to end in this sheer physical
impotence. Adele was very sympathetic and comforted him by
assuring him that it must be a passing indisposition from which
he would soon recover. Sheinsisted that he should rest and as he
was now doing absolutely no work at all on his pictures, he
became gloomy and anxious. She thought up a compromise: he
would produce the sketch plans in pencil and she would square
them up on the canvas and paint them, under his instructions.
Henceforth, that was the procedure that they followed and in
every work he signed, there was now notonesingle brushstroke
of his own. All the actual painting was undertaken by Adele
while he merely provided theinspiration, theideas and the pencil
sketches, which were sometimes incomplete and even wrong, so
that she was forced to correct them, without, however, inform-
ing him.
Following his great success in France, orders had poured in
fromabroad, particularly fromAmericaand Russia, andastheart
collectors from those distant lands were not very demanding, all
that was required was to send offcrates ofpictures and cash the
money, with no questions asked. Gradually, the Sourdis had
gone over completely to this convenient form of production.
Moreover, sales in France had dropped. When, at rare intervals,
Ferdinand sent a picture to the Salon, it was still given the same
enthusiastic reception by the critics, for, being a recognized and
established painter ofundisputed talent, he had been able slowly
to slip into the mass production of mediocre pictures without
disturbing the habits ofeither the critics or the public. For the
majority of people, the painter was still the same, only, as he
grew older, he had given way to younger, more controversial,
painters. Buyers were, however, beginning to lose their taste tor
his paintings and, though he was still considered a contemporary
master, his pictures now sold rather poorly. His whole produc-
tion was going overseas.
However, oneyear, oneofFerdinand Sourdis's pictures madea
gVCal stir at the Salon. It was a kind of counterpart to his first
Salon painting. The Walk. In a cold, white-walled room, school-
boys were working, exchanging slv grins .md watching flies,
while the assistant master m charge ot them was absorbed in a

340 Fair Exchange
novel, seemingly oblivious to everything. It was entitled The
Preparation Room. Everyone found it charming and there were
critics who, comparing the two works painted at an interval of
thirty years, spoke of the progress achieved, of the 'prentice
quality' of The Walk and the mastery of The Preparation Room.
Almostall ofthem contrived to discoverextraordinary finessein
thesecondpicture, exquisiteartistryandaperfectionoftechnique
that would never be surpassed. However, the great majority of
artists protested, Rennequin most vigorously ofall. Althoughby
now a man ofseventy-five, he had remained young and was still
passionately interested in painting.
'ForGod'ssake!'heexclaimed. 'I'mveryfondofFerdinandbut
itreallyisidiotictopreferhispresentworkstothosehepaintedas
a young man. He's got no spunk, no bite, no originality ofany
sort. Oh, I grant you it's pretty, it's easy on the eye. But you'd
have to bea grocer to enjoy that unimaginative technique, tarted
up and titivated into a tawdry mish-mash ofevery possible style
and even the perversion ofevery style. . . It's not the Ferdinand I
used to know who's painting that sort ofrubbish.'
Yet, although he knew their secret, he still held back from
telling the truth about the Sourdis's paintings. You could,
however, sense in the bitterness of his remarks the hidden
resentment he had always felt against women, those 'noxious
animals' as he sometimes called them. So he contented himself
merely with repeating angrily:
'No, that's not the old Ferdinand, definitely not!'
Hehad been following and analysing with curiosity thewayin
which Adele had slowly taken over from Ferdinand. With each
new picture, he had noted the slightest changes, recognizing the
parts painted by the husbandor by thewifeand realizing thatthe
former were steadily and increasingly being superseded by the
latter. It was such an absorbing phenomenon that he forgottobe
angryandmerelyenjoyedwatchingtheinterplayofpersonalities,
as a man fascinated by life's oddities. He had been conscious of
every tiny change in the mutation and he now sensed that this
psychological and physiological drama had been played out. The
ending, represented by The Preparation Room, was there in front
ofhiseyes. Adelehadgobbledup Ferdinandandthatwasthat.
. .
As inJuly ofevery year, Rennequin now decided to go down
and spend a few days in Mercoeur. Indeed, ever since the Salon,

Fair Exchange 341
hehad been feeling an irresistibledesireto meet thecouple again.
It would give him the opportunity ofseeing for himselfwhether
his reasoning was correct.
When hecalledontheSourdis, it wasascorchinghotafternoon
and the garden was drowsing in the shade. The house and even
the flowerbeds looked neat and tidy, the hallmark of middle-
class orderliness and peace. Not a sound from the little town
could penetrate into this remote corner; all that could be heard
was the humming ofbees in the climbing roses. The maid told
him that the mistress was in the studio.
When Rennequin opened the door, he saw Adcle standing in
front of the easel in the same attitude as he had once seen her
manyyearsbefore. Today, however, shewasmakingnosecretof
the fact that she was painting. She gave a quiet exclamation of
pleasure and was about to put down her palette when Rennequin
protested:
'IfI'm disturbing you, I shall go away. . . Hang it all, I'm a
friend ofthe family. Offyou go, keep working!'
She let herselfbe persuaded; she was a woman who knew that
time is money.
'Very well, then, since you insist! You know, one never has
time to turn round
Despite increasing age and obesity, she was still tackling her
work with determination and extraordinary deftness of touch.
Rennequin watched her for a minute then asked:
'Is Ferdinand out?'
'Ofcourse not, he's over there,' replied Adele, pointing with
her brush towards a corner ofthe studio.
Ferdinand was indeed there, lying stretched out on adivan. He
had been dozing and Rennequin's voice had woken him up: but
his mindhad becomeso feebleandsluggish thathedid not at first
recognize him.
'Oh, it's you, what a nice surprise,' he said eventually.
Hemadea greateffort tositupand heldouta rlabbv hand I he
day before, his wife had caught him out with the little girl who
camein todothewashing-upand he was in a verycontrite mood:
he looked seared and worried, not knowing what to do to be
forgiven. Rennequin found him more drained and subdued than
he had expected. He had become a complete wreck and
Rennequin felt pity for the poor man. Wishing to see ifhe could

'
342 Fair Exchange
perhaps rekindle some of his former spirit, he mentioned the
greatstirthathad been createdby ThePreparation Roomatthelast
Salon.
'Well, young fellow, you can still excite the public. Every-
body's talking about you in Paris. It'sjust like the old days.'
Ferdinand gazed at him blankly and then, making an effort to
find something to say:
'Oh yes, I know, Adele's been reading me the papers. It's a
very good picture, isn't it? Oh, I'm working, I'm still doingalot
ofwork. . . But I'm telling you, she's better than me, she's got a
fantastic technique!'
Heblinkedhiseyesand gavea wansmiletowardshiswife. She
hadcomeuptothemandshegaveagood-humouredshrugofher
shoulders as she said:
'Don't listen to him! You know that crazy idea ofhis. . . To
hearhimspeak, you'dthinkitwas
I
whowasthegreatpainter.
. .
All I dois to help him, and not very well at that. . . Well, sinceit
gives him pleasure to say so...
Rennequin watchedwithoutawordthisgameofpretencewhich
they were playing with each other, no doubt in good faith. But
what he saw in the studio told him plainly that Ferdinand's talent
hadsunk without trace. Hewasnotevenproducingthelittlepencil
sketches; he had reached the stage of not feeling any need to
preservehisself-respectbylies;inhismind
it
wasnowenoughtobe
merely Adele's husband and it was she who composed, sketched
and painted the pictures, without asking any advice from him.
Moreover, shehad, as an artist, entered socompletelyinto his skin
thatshewasabletocontinuehiswork withoutleavingtheslightest
indication to show where the break had occurred. Now, itwas all
herownworkandallthatremainedofherfemalepersonalitywas
the earlier imprint ofFerdinand's male personality.
Ferdinand gave a yawn.
'You'll stay to dinner, won't you?' he said. 'I'm fagged out. . .
Can you understand that, Rennequin? I've done damn all today
and I'm still completely fagged out!'
'He says he hasn't done anything,' interrupted Adele, 'but he
works from morning to night. He'llneverlisten to meandtakea
good long rest.'
'That's true enough,' Ferdinand said. 'IfI take a rest, I don't
feel well, I have to keep busy.'

Fair Exchange 343
He had stood up and wandered about the studio for a minute
before sitting down again at the small table on which his wife
used to paint her watercolours. He was examining a sheet of
paperon which someone had started putting the first washesofa
watcrcolour painting. It was a sort of schoolgirlish subject, a
streamturningthewheelofamill, withascreenofpoplarsandan
old willow. Renncquin leaned over his back and started to smile
ashe saw the childish clumsiness ofthe drawing and the colours.
It was an almost laughable daub.
'How odd,' he murmured to himself.
He stopped short when he saw Adele give him a sharp look.
With a vigorous flourish, not bothering to use a maulstick, she
hadjust dashed offa whole figure in her picture, roughing it in
with a quite masterly boldness ofbrushwork.
'Don't you think that's a really pretty mill?' said Ferdinand,
still bending over his sheet ofpaper. He soundedjust like a little
boy pleased at the progress he was making. 'Of course, you
know, I'm only a learner, nothing more.'
Rennequin stood there in stunned amazement. It was
Ferdinand who was now painting watercolours.

THE HAUNTED HOUSE
ABOUT two years ago I was cycling down a deserted country
lanenearOrgeval, up-riverfromPoissy, when
I
caughtsightofa
building, set slightly back from the road, of such striking
appearance that I jumped off my bicycle to examine it more
closely. Under the lead-grey November sky, in the middle ofa
vastgardenplanted withancienttreeswhoseleaveswereswirling
about in the bitterly cold wind, there stood a brick-built house,
quite ordinary-looking in itself; but the thing which made it so
remarkable, so weird, grim and distressing, was the appalling
stateofdisrepairinto whichithad been allowedto fall. Asoneof
the iron gates had fallen off and a large placard announced, in
letters almost completely obliterated by the weather, that the
property was for sale, impelled by a curiosity not unmixed with
an uneasy feeling ofapprehension, I went into the garden.
The house must have remained unoccupied for possibly thirty
or even forty years. The crumbling brick cornices and archi-
traves, disintegrating under the effect of the weather, were
overgrown with moss and lichen, and the front of the house,
whilesoundenough, eventhoughbadlyneglected, wasfurrowed
with cracks like a prematurely wrinkled face. Covered in
brambles, the steps leading up to the terrace in front of the
entrance were broken up by frost and sprouting nettles from
every crack. It was completely desolate, like the threshold to a
house of the dead. Particularly terrifying was the melancholy
sight of the bare, livid green windows, smashed in by stones
thrown by urchins and opening on to dismal, deserted rooms,
like the dull, staring eyes ofa lifeless corpse. The vast garden
surrounding the house was a scene ofsheer devastation with its
flower beds swamped in weeds and barely recognizable, preda-
tory plants that had run riot and obliterated the paths, arbours
which had degenerated into ajungle, rank growth such as you
find in an abandoned cemetery, under the dank shade ofgiant
hoarytrees, overwhich, on thislateautumnday, thewindswere
singing their mournful dirge as they stripped offthe last leaves.
For a long time I stood there lost in thought, gazing at this
melancholy sight and listening to this universal, despairing

'
The Haunted House 345
lament, oppressed by secret fears and a growing distress, yet
gripped by a deep compassion, a need to know and sympathize
with the misery and suffering which I sensed all around mc. So
when I at last made up my mind to leave, catching sight ofwhat
seemed like an inn on the other side ofthe lane where the road
forked, a wretched sort ofhovel where you could buy a drink, I
walked over to it, determined to see what I could find out from
the local inhabitants.
Inside there was only an old woman who served me a glass of
beer. Shewas full ofmoans, complainingthatherinn wastoofar
off the beaten track and that she would be lucky if she saw a
couple ofcyclists a day. She went on to tell me the story ofher
life: hernamewasToussaintandshewasawidow. Shehad come
from Vernon to take over the inn with her man; at first, things
hadn't gone too badly but ever since her husband had died
everything had been going downhill. When her stream ofwords
had subsided and I started to question her about the property
acrosstheway, shesuddenlybecameverywaryandlooked at me
suspiciously as if I were trying to extract some dreadful secret
from her.
'Oh yes, you mean The Wilderness, the haunted house, as
peoplecall it round here. Well, I don't knowanythingaboutit, it
wasn't during my time, I'll have been here thirty years come
Easter and all that happened nearly forty years ago. When we
came here, the house looked more or less like it does now. . .
Summers come and go and winters come and go and nothing
much changes except that a few more stones fall off.'
'But why hasn't it been sold, since it's up for sale?' I enquired.
'Ah, whynot, why not? Howcan I know? Peoplesayso many
things. . .
No doubt I was beginning to gain her confidence. What was
more, she was dying to tell me all those things that people said.
To start with, she told me that not one of the girls from the
neighbouring village would ever dare to go into The Wilder]
after dark because ofthe rumour that there was a poor soul who
returned from the dead at night. And when I expressed surprise
that there were still people who believed that sort of tiling, so
closeto Paris, she shrugged her shoulders .mil, after professing to
be sceptical, admitted that she herselfhad sneaking tears
'Facts are (acta. sir. Whv can't they sell n; I've seen buyers

346 The Haunted House
come along and they've all gone away faster than they came and
notoneofthemhasevercomeback. Well, onething'scertainand
that'sthatassoonasanyoneisboldenoughtogointothathouse,
strange things begin to happen: doors fly open or slam shut by
themselves, just as ifthere's a terrible wind blowing; cries and
groans and sobs can be heard in the cellars and if people still
persist they hear earsplitting screams of: "Angeline! Angeline!
Angeline!" so sad and mournful, they'd freeze the blood in your
veins. I'm telling you, it's been proved and nobody can deny it.'
I confess that I was beginning to be passionately intrigued
myselfand even feeling a slight shiver run down my own spine.
'And who was this Angeline?' I enquired.
'Ah, sir, I'dhavetotell you the wholestory. . . But I must say
again, I don't know anything.'
But she ended by telling me everything. Forty years before,
around 1858, ata time when the Second Empirewasatits height
andlifewasonelongcelebration, MonsieurdeG***, whohelda
post in the Emperor's household in the Tuileries, was widowed
and left with his young daughter Angeline, about ten years old
and an amazingly beautiful little girl, the living image of her
mother. Two years later, Monsieur de G*** married again, a
general's widow and another celebrated beauty. It was said that
after this second marriage, Angeline and her stepmother became
dreadfullyjealous ofeach other, the little girl being heartbroken
at seeing her mother so quickly forgotten and replaced by an
outsiderwhile thestepmother was obsessed and even terrifiedby
the continual presence ofthis living image ofa wife whom she
could never entirely replace in her husband's affections. The
Wilderness belonged to the new Madame de G*** and one
evening, seeing her husband passionately kissing his daughter,
she was said to have been so carried away by her insanejealousy
that she had struck her stepdaughter so hard on the back ofher
headthatthepoorlittlegirlfelldead. Therewasahorriblesequel:
in order to protect the woman who had murdered his daughter,
the father agreed to bury Angeline himselfin one ofthe cellars
and the little body lay there for years while the couple gave out
that the girl was staying with an aunt. Later a dog was seen
scratching at the earth and howling, so the crime came to light,
but it was all hushed up by the Emperor's entourage to avoid
scandal. Now both Monsieur and Madame de G*** were dead

The Haunted House 347
but Angeline still came back to earth every night as a mournful
voice called out to her from the mysterious regions ofthe other
world.
'Everybody knows the story,' said old Madame Toussaint in
conclusion. 'It's as true as two and two makes four.'
I had been listening to her tale with bated breath, gripped,
despite its improbabilities, by the strange violence ofthis sinister
drama. I had heard ofthis Monsieur dc G*** and I seemed to
remember that he had remarried and that a domestictragedy had
castashadowoverhislife. Sowasitalltrue? Whatatragicallysad
story it was! The clash of passions exacerbated to the point of
madness, the most terrifying of crimes passiotiels imaginable, a
little girl of unearthly beauty, deeply loved, yet killed by her
wicked stepmother and buried by herown fatherin thecornerof
a cellar! The emotion and the horror were both on an unspeak-
ably grand scale. I was just about to question the old woman
further and start a discussion, when I stopped and asked myself:
what'sthepoint?Whynotgoaway withthis frightfultale, sucha
superb figment of the popular imagination, still fresh and un-
spoilt in my mind?
As I remounted my bicycle, I cast one final glance at The
Wilderness. Night was falling, the unhappy house was watching
me through its blank, murky windows, like the eyes ofsome
dead woman, while the autumn winds kept up their moaning
through the ancient trees.
How was it that this story impressed itself so firmly on my
mind as to become a nagging obsession that refused to go away?
Such things are problems of psychology that are difficult to
solve. . . 1 kept telling myselfthat legends ofthis sort are to be
found in every country district in France and that this particular
one could have no direct interest tor me; vet despite this. I was
haunted by the thought of this little dead girl, that entrancing.
tragic, little Angeline who every night for the last fortv vears had
been called to by a mournful voice echoing through the emptv
rooms ofthat deserted house-
So, during the first two months of the following winter. I
started investigating Obviously, even it' such a spectacular

348 The Haunted House
disappearance had never become widely known, the newspapers
of the time must still have made some reference to it. I went
through the relevant issues in the Bibliotheque Nationale* with-
outdiscoveringanything: therewasnotonewordaboutanysuch
story. Then I questioned contemporaries, members of the
Emperor's household: nobody could give me any firm answer
and the only information that I succeeded in gathering was so
contradictorythatalthough
I
wasstilltantalizedbythemystery,
I
had given up all hope of getting at the truth. And then, one
morning, quite by chance, I struck another track . . .
Every twoorthree weeks, I usedto goandpay my respects to
a fellow writer, the old poet V***, for whom I had great
admiration and affection; he died last April, just short of his
seventieth birthday. For many years he had been paralysed in his
legs and confined to an armchair in his little study in the Rue
d'Assas, overlooking the Luxembourg gardens. He had long
lived in his imagination, cut off from reality in his ideal ivory
tower, where he had loved and suffered; this life ofdreams was
now drawing gently to its close. Who amongst us can fail to
remember his pleasant, delicate features, his white hair, as curly
as a child's, and his pale blue eyes that had never lost the
innocence ofyouth? He could not be described as an inveterate
liar; but it was true that his mind was so continually inventive
thatyou couldnever really tell where, forhim, reality endedand
dreams began. He was a most charming old man who had long
been living in a world ofhis own. I found that his conversation
frequently had the effect ofopening up a vague, discreet and yet
thrilling vision ofthe Unknown.
So thatday, I was chatting with him, sittingby the window of
his tiny little room, always heated by a blazing fire. It was
freezinghardoutsideandthevastLuxembourggardens stretched
out immaculately white as far as the eye could see. I don't
remember how I came to mention The Wilderness and the story
that I still couldn't banish from my mind: the father remarrying,
the stepmother insanely jealous of his little daughter with her
uncanny resemblance to her mother, and her sinister burial in a
cornerofthecellar. Helistened to me with thequietsmilewhich
was always on his lips even when he was sad. There was a pause
and, ashispaleblueeyesbecamelostincontemplationofthevast
whiteLuxembourggardens, hegavealittleshudderandasudden

The Haunted House 349
aura ofdream seemed to be hovering round him.
'I knew Monsieur de G*** very well,' he began slowly. 'I
knew his first wife, whose beauty was truly preternatural... I
knew his second wife, a prodigiously lovely woman. I was even
in love with both ofthem, without ever divulging my feelings. I
knew Angeline, who was even lovelier and who, had she lived,
would have had every man at her feet. But her death did not
occur quite as you say
I was completely dumbfounded. Was this going to be the
revelationofthetruththatI haddespairedofeverlearning?Would
I
finally know the whole story? At first unsuspecting, I said:
'My dear V***, you can't imaginehow great a kindness you'll
bedoing me! At last I shall be able to havepeaceofmind . . . Tell
me everything, quickly!'
But he was not listening to meand his pale blue eyes werestill
gazing into the distance. Then he started speaking in a dreamy
voice, as ifcreating the people and things he was conjuring up
from the past.
'By the time she was twelve, Angeline had already blossomed
into womanhood and was capable offeeling all its transports of
love as well as its pangs of suffering. It was she who became
jealous, madlyjealous, ofthisnew wifewhom shesaweveryday
in her father's company. She felt it as a monstrous betrayal and it
caused her untold anguish; it was not only an affront to her
mother but a heartrending torment for herself. Every night she
could hear her mother calling to her from her tomb and one
night, tortured by her immense love and unable to bear her
sufferings any longer, she determined tojoin her mother beyond
the grave. She stabbed herselfto the heart with a knife.'
I uttered a cry.
'Gracious Heavens! Is that possible'"
'You canimagineall theterrorandthehorror,' he wenton. not
heeding my exclamation, 'when, on the following morning.
Monsieur and Madame G*** found Angeline in her little bed
with a knife thrust upto the haft in the middle ofher chest The)
were leaving for Italy the following day and there was only one
other person left in the house, a maid who had brought Angeline
up. Terrified lest thev might be anused oi the Clime, they
enlisted her help,v\d did indeed burv the littlegirl's body, but m a
corner ot the conservatory at the back ofthe house, at the foot ol

350 The Haunted House
a giantorangetree. And it wasthereitwasfoundwhen, afterher
parents' death, the old housemaid told her story.'
Doubts were beginning to arise in my mind and I uneasily
scrutinized his face in the suspicion that he might be inventing
the whole story.
'But do you too really think,' I asked him, 'thatAngeline may
be coming back as a ghost every night when she hears that
earsplitting cry ofthe mysterious voice calling to her?'
This time he looked at me and gave an indulgent smile.
'Come back as a ghost? My dear boy, everybody comes
back . . . Why shouldn't the soul of that dear little girl still be
haunting the place where shehadloved and suffered?Ifa voiceis
heard calling to her, you can be sure that it's only because life
hasn'tyet begun again forher. Everything begins again, nothing
is ever lost, whether it be love or loveliness... Angeline!
Angeline! Angeline! And she'll be born again and return to the
sunshine and the flowers
I was definitely neither convinced nor reassured. My poetic,
childlike old friend had in fact thrown me into still greater
confusion. He must have been making it all up. All the same, he
had perhaps, like all seers, divined the truth.
'Andwhatyou'vejustbeen tellingme iscompletely, genuinely
true?' I ventured to ask him, with a laugh.
He gave a gentle laugh in reply.
'Of course it's true! Isn't everything true that is part of the
Infinite?'
That was the last time I met him, for some timelater I had to
leave Paris. I can stillseehimnow, with his raptlookashegazed
absently outoverthewhiteexpanseoftheLuxembourg gardens,
soquietlycertainofthetruthofhisendlessdreams, whereasI was
consumed by the need to nail down the constantly elusive truth.
Eighteen months went by. I had been forced to travel and my
life had been caught up in a passionate web ofjoy and sorrow in
the storm of life which whirls us all away towards the great
Unknown. But at certain times, I could still hear in the distance
that piteous call: Angeline! Angeline! Angeline! It would transfix
me and would remain trembling, once again tortured by doubt
I

The Haunted House 351
and the need to know the truth. I found it impossible to forget:
uncertainty is my private hell.
I can't remember exactly how it came to be that on one
splendidJune evening I found myselfonce more cycling along
thatremotelittle lanepast The Wilderness. Had I madeaconscious
decision to go back? Or had I unthinkingly left the main road to
go offin that direction? It was nearly eight o'clock but at that
timeoftheyearwhenthedaysaresolong, theskywasstillaglow
with thetriumphantsplendourofa sunsettingin acloudlesssky.
an infinite prospect ofgold and azure blue. A delicious lightness
filled the air, a rich scent oftrees and grasses and an immense
peaceandjoy spread out tenderly overthe meadows. It was bliss
to be alive.
As on the first occasion, it was amazement which made me
spring off my bicycle at the sight of The Wilderness. For a
moment, I felt uncertain: was this really the same property' A
fine new gate was gleaming in the sun, the boundary walls had
been rebuilt and the house itself, which I could barely discern
amongst the trees, seemed to have been rejuvenated: it was gay
and cheerful. Could this be the promised resurrection? Had
Angeline come back to life in response to the calls from the
mysterious, distant voice?
I had remained standing in the lane, greatly puzzled, when I
was startled to hear shuffling footsteps coming up behind me. It
was the old widow Toussaint bringing her cow back from a
nearby field oflucerne.
'So they weren't put off, were they?' I said, pointing towards
the house.
She recognized me and brought her cow to a halt.
'Ah well, therearepeople, youknow, sir, who'd walkoverthe
good Lord! The property was sold more than a year ago. But it
was an artist who bought it, the painter B***. and artists'U do
anything.'
Andshe wenton herway, taking hercow withherandadding,
with a shake ofher head:
'Anyway, we'll have to wait and see how it turns out *
Thepainter B***, that clever, sensitive artist who'd painted all
thoseattractive Parisian women? I knew him slightly, we used to
exchange greetings at the theatre, at art exhibitions, at all those
other places where people meet. Sudden Iv. I

352 The Haunted House
irresistible urge to go in and confess my obsession to him and
beghimtotell meanythinghemightknowaboutthemysterious
Wilderness that was preying so insistently on my mind. So,
without further ado, and ignoring my dusty cycling get-up,
which people were, by now, beginning to accept in any case, I
propped my bicycle up against the moss-covered trunk ofan old
tree. When I pulled the bell-chain that was dangling beside the
gate, a servant appeared. I gave him my card and he went away,
leaving me alone in the garden.
As I looked around me, my surprise increased. They had
restoredthefrontofthehouse; thecracksandloosenedbrickshad
gone; the entrance terrace, gay with rose-bushes, had become
friendly and welcoming, whilethewindows, hung with cheerful
white curtains, bespoke happiness within. The garden had been
cleared of its nettles and brambles, the flower beds had re-
emerged, full ofcolour and fragrance; even the century-old trees
looked younger, basking peacefully in the golden rays of the
spring-like sunshine.
When the servant came back, he showed meintothedrawing-
room, explaining that his master had gone into the village but
that he would not be long. I should have been prepared to wait
for hours, so I settled down patiently and started to examine the
room into which I had been shown, luxuriously furnished with
deep-pile carpets and cretonne curtains at the windows and
doors, matching theimmense divan and thedeeparmchairs. The
window curtains wereso voluminous that I was surprised by the
suddenarrivalofdusk; nightbegantofall andsoontheroomwas
almost completely in the dark. Once again I had started to day-
dream and go over the whole tragic story in my mind. Had
Angeline been murdered? Had she really stabbed herselfin the
heart? And I must confess that, sitting all alone in this deserted
house, now completely plunged in darkness, and waiting for
what seemed many hours forsomeone who nevercame, I began
to be gripped by a strange fear, a fearthat, startingas a feeling of
unease, a slight shiver down the spine, gradually grew stronger
and stronger until my blood began tofreezeand I was filled with
a panic terror.
Why had no one brought me any light? Why had I been
forgotten? And now vague sounds seemed to be coming from
somewhere: soft moaning, stifled sobs, heavy ghostly footsteps.

The Haunted House 353
Werethey inthecellar?Thesound increased and camenearerand
the whole gloom-filled house seemed to be in the grip ofsome
fearful anguish. Then, suddenly, the dreadful cry rang out:
Angelinc! Angeline! Angelinc! in such a wild crescendo that I
could almost feel its cold breath on my face. With savage
violence, one of the drawing-room doors was flung open and
Angelinecameinandranacrosstheroomwithoutseeingme.
. . I
recognized her in the light which streamed in through the door
from the hall outside. There could be no doubt: there was the
little dead twelve-year-old girl ofwhom I had heard so much,
marvellously lovely, with her long fair hair flowing over her
shoulders, dressed in a white frock and herselfall white from the
earthy grave from which she rose every night She dashed
. . .
wildlypastanddisappearedthrough anotherdoorwhilethesame
cry came again, further away this time: Angeline! Angeline!
Angeline! I stood therebathed in perspiration, withevery hairon
my body bristling with terror at the sight of this mysterious
flashing apparition.
I think it must have been almost at once,just as the apologetic
servant at last brought me a lamp, that I became aware that the
painter B*** musthavecomeintotheroomand wasshaking my
hand and apologizing, too, for having kept me waiting for so
long. Any false pride I might have had had evaporated and, still
tremblingfromheadto foot, I immediatelypouredoutmystory.
Youcan imaginehis amazement as helistened to meand you can
imagine mine as he suddenly broke into a great guffaw and
hastened to reassure me:
'You probably don't know, my dear fellow, that the second
Madame G*** was my cousin. Poor woman! Fancy accusing
herofthe murderofthatlittlegirl whom sheloved and mourned
as ifshe had been her own. You see, that's the only true part
ofyour story: the poor little girl did die, not by her own hand.
Heaven's above, but from a sudden attack of fever It was
such an unbelievable shock for her father and stepmother that
they refused to go on living in a house where such a terrible
thing had happened. That explains whv it remained unoccupied
during their lifetime. After their death, there were endless
lawsuits which prevented the property from being sold I had
always wanted to buy it and had kept my eye on it tor yean I

354 The Haunted House
can assure you that up till now we've never seen a single
ghost!'
Another little shiver ran down my spine.
'But I've just seen Angeline here only a moment ago,' I
stammered. 'I heard a strange voice calling her and she went
through here, I saw her myselfrunning across the room.'
He looked at me again in bewilderment as though I had taken
leaveofmy senses. Thenhischeerfulfacebrokeintoabroadgrin.
'That must be my daughter,' he exclaimed with a laugh. 'Her
godfatherwasMonsieurdeG***whogaveherthesamenamein
memoryofhisowndaughter. Iexpecthermotherwascallingher
and she ran through here.'
He opened a door and himselfcalled out the familiar name:
'Angeline! Angeline! Angeline!'
The little ghost came in, bubbling over with life and high
spirits. She stood there in her white dress with her long fair hair
streamingoverhershoulders, solovely, soradiantly fullofhope,
the epitome of a budding spring rich with the promise of a
lifetime oflove and happiness.
What a darling ghost she was, this new little Angeline, reborn
from the dead one! Death, where is thy victory? My old friend,
the poet V***, was right: nothing is everlost, everything begins
again, love and loveliness alike. Mothers' voices call to their
daughters, those little girls oftoday who are the sweethearts of
tomorrow, and theylive againin thesunshineand theflowers. It
was the hope ofthis child's awakening that had been haunting
this house, now once morejoyful and renewed, happy at last in
the rediscovery ofthe secret ofeternal life!

EXPLANATORY NOTES
THE GIRL WHO LOVES ME (Celle qui m'aime) is from Contes a Stnon, a
collection offiveshort stories. Published in November 1864. it is Zola's
first publication. The first-person narration frequently appears in Zola's
early chroniques; it would be dangerous to assume that such stones are
accurately autobiographical.
4 theFriendofthePeople (I'AmiduPeuple'): thisincreasinglygrotesque
figureofahypocritical would-behumanitarian takes his namefrom
Marat's revolutionarynews-sheet; it was also thetitleofan influen-
tial left-wing republican periodical in the period leading up to the
1848 Revolution. At this stage, Zola's pity for thepoor showed no
political leanings.
10 in their own way: the contrast between the beauty and grandeur of
nature and thesordid bustleofthecrowd is typical ofyoung Zola's
early works where he is striving, as an idealist, to come to terms
with reality. There are echoes ofBaudelaire's Petits Poemes en Prose
here.
RENTAFOIL {Les Repoussoirs): first published 1866 as part ofa volume
containing a short novel and three other tales grouped under the title
Esquisses parisiennes: it is an amusing and sadly cynical story about a
cynical and erotic epoch, the declining years ofthe Second Empire.
19 Walter Scott: a constant source of ridicule, for French writers as
providing fuel for the sloppy romanticism ofsilly young women,
and even some less silly: Madame Chabre takes to reading Scott's
novels (see 'Shellfish for Monsieur Chabre').
DEATH BY ADVERTISING (L'ne Victime de la reclame): this cancaturallv
satirical and chilling tale, first published in L'Illustration in 1866. was
reprintedwithvariouschanges, someconsiderable, inotherperiodicalsin
1868, 1869 and 1872; we have mainly followed the text of the first
version. The original idea occurs in a similar tale by a fellowjournalist.
Philarete Chasles.
23 'the best ofall possible worlds': echoing, ofcourse, the phil
Pangloss's optimistic beliefin Voltaire's (landidt
STORY OF A MADMAN (Histoire d'unfou): first published in l.'Hienrment
illustre in June 1868 Forcible internment in asylums ofallegedly mad
people was a topical issue and then, as now. it aroused Itn
The story has similarities of plot with Zola's novel TMfbi RtffMM

356 Explanatory Notes
published the year before and adumbrates parts of the later Rougon-
Macquart novel La ConquetedePlassans of1874.
25 Belleville is in the XlXth arrondissement in the north-east ofParis.
27 Charenton: a psychiatric hospital to the south-east ofParis, near the
Bois de Vincennes.
BIGMICHU(LegrandMichu): first publishedin March 1870in La Cloche,
for which Zola wrote a number ofchroniques from 1870-2; these have a
marked anti-Second Empire tone. In 'Big Michu' sympathy for
republicanism and student protest is quite plain: its idea was based on
actualhappeningsintwoParislyceesin1869. 'BigMichu'wasreprintedin
1874 as part ofa collection offifteen stories entitled Nouveaux Contes a
Ninon.
30 Var. part ofProvence.
theMaures: a low range bordering the Mediterranean.
THE ATTACK ON THE MILL(L'Attaque du Moulin): appeared in Russia in
June 1877, and in three French periodicals before publication, with five
otherstoriesbyfivefriendsandadmirers, in 1880underthetitleSoireesde
Medan, from thenameofthevillagenearParis whereZolahadboughta
countrypropertyafterthehugesuccessofL'Assommoir. Thestories, anti-
militarist in tone, all dealt with the Franco-Prussian warof1870—1; they
were intended as a naturalist manifesto. Apart from Zola's story, ofthe
others only Maupassant's Boule de Suif has survived; in any case,
Maupassant soon went his own way. Despite the cliches (the harsh
Prussian officer, the dashing French commander, the heroic refusal to
betray), the story has dramatic suspense, a touching love interest, an
intriguingly eccentric main character (in old Merlier), and a finely anti-
climacticclimax, but a readeruntouchedorboredby Frenchchauvinism
may prefer other more down-to-earth but subtler tales.
53 endearingly: this 'endearing' tone represents, in the French, the first
time she had addressed Dominique with the intimate 'tu' insteadof
the formal 'vous'.
CAPTAIN BURLE(LeCapitaineBurle): thelastofZola's stories for Vestnik
Evropy, it appeared in Russia in December 1880. It was published twice
separatelyinFrenchperiodicalsbeforegivingitstitletoacollectionofsix
short stories from Vestnik Evropy published in a single volume in 1882;
they included 'The Way PeopleDie' (Commenton meurt) and 'Coqueyille
on the Spree' (La Fete a Coqueville). A further volume of six Vestnik
Evropy stories followed in 1884; it took its title from Nats Micoulin ('A
Flash in the Pan'), and included 'Dead Men Tell No Tales' (La Mort
d'Olivier Becaille), 'Shellfish for Monsieur Chabre' (Les Coquillages de
Monsieur Chabre) and 'Absence Makes the Heart Grow Fonder' (Jacques

1
Explanatory Notes 357
Damour). WchaveinourselectionfollowedtheorderlaiddownbyZola,
not the order ofpublication as separate stories.
If'CaptainBurle'ispossiblythemostsqualidofallZola'sshortstones,
itisperhaps, throughitspaucityoflightrelief, oneofhismostdisturbing.
There is little comfort for optimists in this taleoffamily pride leading a
mother to instigate her son's death and drive her grandson to an early
graveandofmilitaryhonourbringingaboutthedeathofanofficeratthe
hands ofan old friend.
67 Solferino: an Italian villagein theprovinceofMantua, thesceneofa
victory ofNapoleon Ill's army over the Austrians inJune 1859.
72 absinthe: a wormwood-flavoured French rot-gutliqueur; itssalewas
later banned.
THE WAY PEOPLE DIE (Comment on meurt): the third ofZola's stones for
Vestnik Evropy, published in August 1876. The convenient formula of
treating thesamethemeinaseriesofdramaticsketches groupedaccording
tosocialclasshadalreadybeenusedbyhiminastoryentitledCommentonse
marieintheRussianmagazineinJanuary 1876. Zolausedasimilartechnique
onotheroccasions, notably in 'Priests and Sinners' (sec below).
98 Academy ofMoral and Political Sciences: one ofthe five Academies,
which include the famous Academie franchise, that together form
L'Institutfranqais, housedintheseventeenth-centuryPalaisMazarin
on the Left Bank.
Conseil d'Etat: the highest administrative court ofFrance; originally
set up by Napoleon I to advise on the drafting ofregulations, it
gradually developed judicial functions to protect citizens against
abuse ofsuch government regulations.
103 Montparnasse cemetery: in the XlVth arrondisscment in the south of
Pans.
105 theMarais: a district in the Illrd and IVth arrondissements. contain-
ing many superb old townhouses.
110 Pere-Lachaisecemetery: XXth arrondissement, north-east ofParis.
11 Ruede Clichy: IXth arrondissement; quite a good address.
113 Auvergne: a poor and harsh, though lovely, province in tru
Central. Itsinhabitants(Auvergnats)haveareputationofbeinghard
workersanddour; thustheyaresupposedto makegoodCOIH
i
Saint-Cloud:justeastofParis, it hasa finepark and .1formerImperial
palace.
114 Mflun: a little country town on the Seine south-east ofPans
117 Montmartre cemetery: in the XVIIIth arrondissement m the north of
Paris, not far from the Rue de ( luh\

358 Explanatory Notes
Batignolles: in the less fashionable eastern part of the XVIIIth
arrondissement.
122 RueNollet: roundthecornerfrom RueCardinet. Zolatook painsto
be accurate in his topography ofParis.
123 Angers: some 180milessouth-eastofParisandtheformerprovincial
capital ofAnjou.
COQUEVILLE ON THE SPREE (La Fete a Coqueville): published in Vestnik
Evropy in August 1879, in French in May 1880. Thisstory showsflashes
ofoptimism ofa sort rare in Zola: it seems to be suggested that man's
natural goodness, herereleasedby massivedosesoffreealcohol, can rise
above influences ofhistory and environment. But Zola obviously has
tongue in cheek, and the only glimpse into the future shows the
downtrodden Monsieur Mouchel tanning the hide off the acerbic
Madame Veuve Dufeu.
130 Louis XIII: takes us back to the period 1610-43.
132 Brisemotte:Frenchfora'clod-crusher', asortofharrow;butanearlier
familiar meaning ofmotte was the mons Veneris.
La Queue.. .Louis-Philippe: Louis Philippe reigned from 1830-48,
long after pigtails (French, queue) were out-moded.
134 the Emperor: strange to have been so called because he had served
under a king, but nicknames are like that, and anything imperial is
military. Charles X reigned from 1824—30.
sous-prefet: foradministrativepurposes, Franceisdividedintoninety
odd departements, each under a prefet, and each departement is sub-
divided into arrondissements ofwhich the head is asous-prefet. Father
Radiguet, despitecertainsimilaritiestoFatherPintouxin'Priestsand
Sinners', is far less bigoted and thus more humane and intelligent,
justastheNormansarelesssuperstitiousandmorehard-headedthan
the Bretons.
143 ratafia: a liqueur flavoured with almond, peach, apricot or cherry
kernels.
150 tuicacalugaresca. . . Serbianslivovitz:Zolaobviouslyenjoyeddredging
up the names ofvery exotic spirits and liqueurs: even in our well-
travelled, affluent age, while Serbian (or Yugoslavian) slivovitz is
not unfamiliar to many, Romanian tuica calugareasca (misspelt by
— —
Zola) also a plum-brandy is less likely to be widely known.
'Calugareasca' tells us that, like trappistine (made by Trappist
monks),jhis tuica is made by monks.
A FLASH IN THE PAN (Nais Micoulin): published in Vestnik Evropy in
September 1877 and in France two years later. For its publication in

Explanatory Xotes 359
volume form, seenote to 'Captain Burle' (above). Zola wrotethis story
onholidayatL'Estaqueand FredericandNais'sdesireiscloselylinkedto
the ambience of warmth and natural beauty; there is also an obvious
contrast between the sophisticated townsman and the country girl. Zola
wasabletobringhis familiaritywith Provenceacquiredasaboytogood
use in the portraits ofold Micoulin and his wife. The landscapes ofthe
story were much painted by Zola's schoolfriend, Paul Cezanne.
162 Durance:oneofthemaintributariesoftheRhoneintowhichitflows
south ofAvignon.
Cours Mirabeau: the magnificent tree-lined main street ofAix.
170 LaJoliette: the modern port ofMarseilles.
DEAD MEN TELL NO TALES {La Mort d'Olivier Becaille): published in
Vestnik Evropy in March 1879 and in France a month later (see note to
'Captain Burle' above). The story reveals an underlying morbidity in
Zola.
187 Rue Dauphine: in the Vlth arrondissement, on the Left Bank near
Saint-Germain-des-Pres.
210 mysenseofdirection: BecaillemusthavebeenburiedintheMontparn-
assecemetery, liketheComtedeVerteuil in 'TheWay PeopleDie'.
SHELLFISHFORMONSIEURCHABRE(Les Coquillages de MonsieurChabre):
published in Vestnik Evropy in September 1876; section IV appeared
separately in France inJuly 1881, and the whole story appeared in the
collection ofstories published under the general title ofNats Micoulin in
1884 (see note to 'Captain Burle' above).
Zola wrote that the chiefcharacter in this story was the sea (he had
holidayed in Piriac, on the Atlantic coast south ofNantes, in 1876, and
many personal memories ofthe landscape have been incorporated). It is
also an excellent manual ofseduction for the useofmales and females.
ABSENCEMAKESTHEHEARTGROWFONDER(JacquesDamour): published
in VestnikEvropyin August 1880, in Francein April/May 1881; included
in the \'ais Micoulin volumeof1884 (secnote to 'Captain Burle' above).
246 Soumea: the capital of the French colony of New Caledonia, to
which convicted members ofthe Commune uprising in 1H71 were
transported.
Mtnilmontant:aworking-classdistrictintheXXtharrondissementin
which liesthePerc-Lachaisecemetery, onasiteoriginally belonging
to Father de la Chaise, oneofLouis XIV's confesson
247 Berru . . . Henri I' in Berru weseeZolaonceagain(asintheFriendof
the People in The Girl Who Loves Me') taking a hard look at
deviousness and hypocrisy in republi W who. lik
Michu, has a father who fought in the heroic ranks ofthe IS

360 Explanatory Notes
1851 republicans, is far more sympathetic. Zola seems to prefer
heroic actions to words.
Henri V, who lived from 1820 to 1883, was the grandson ofthe
last Bourbon King ofFrance, Charles X (reigned 1824-30), and in
direct line ofdescent from the deposed and guillotined Louis XVI.
HenritookthetitleofHenri Vin 1843. TheFrenchroyalistflagwas
white, andhis refusal to acceptthetricolorwastobea majorfactor
in stopping any restoration.
248 '93: the year 1793 was, in fact, the most bloodthirsty ofthe French
Revolution and saw the height ofRobespierre's Terror.
250 guns on Montmartre: the newly-elected, largely conservative French
government, fearing troublefromsubversiveelementsin Paris, had
decided to sit in Versailles. When the Parisians, who also thought
that the government had not prosecuted the war against the
Prussians besieging Paris with sufficient vigour, learned that the
'men in Versailles' proposed disbanding the National Guard, they
removed onehundred and seventy guns from thePlaceWagram in
theXVIIth arrondissement, ostensibly topreventthem from falling
into Prussian hands, and hauled them by hand up to the heights of
Montmartre. Riotingbrokeoutwhengovernmenttroopsweresent
torecovertheguns;electionswereheldinParis,andinApril1871 an
independent Paris government, the Commune, was set up.
251 Moulineaux: in the south-west of Paris. The red flag was the
Commune's flag.
254 British territory: the nearest would be the British New Hebrides.
256 amnesty: the amnesty for ex-Communards was issued inJuly 1880,
so Zola's story was topical.
258 Gros-Caillou . . .Bercy: Gros-Caillou, in the Vllth arrondissementon
the Left Bank; Bercy in the Xllth, on the Right Bank.
259 PontNotre-Dame:joins the Right Bank tothe HedelaCite,justeast
ofthe Hotel de Ville, the City Hall ofPans.
269 PlaceMoncey: in the IXth; Damour still had a long way to go.
276 Rued'Amsterdam:intheIXth, runsnorthfromtheGareSaint-Lazare.
All the streets in this district are named after European capitals or
major cities.
278 Mantes:nowknowasMantes-la-Jolie;itliesontheSeinenorth-west
ofParis.
PRIESTS AND SINNERS: no title in Zola's lifetime. It was published in
VestnikEuropyinJanuary 1877, andinFrenchinAugust/September1877,
with a short introductory paragraph by Zola in which he claims to be
writing as an observer rather than a moralist.

Explanatory Notes 361
284 Calvary: Brittany is renowned for its sculpted roadside crucifixion
scenes.
292 Ste-Clotilde: the then recently built church ofStc-Clotilde stands in
the Rue Las-Cases in the heart ofthe aristocratic Faubourg Saint-
Germain, near the French Chamber ofDeputies.
294 Chambertin: a red Burgundy, however fine, would hardly be con-
sidered today a fit accompaniment for sole.
299 Faubourg Saint-Antoine: an essentially working-class district, east of
the Place de la Bastille.
FAIR EXCHANGE (Madame Sourdis): published in Vestnik Evropy in April
1880, and in French only in May 19(X). It has been suggested that this
unusuallylonggapmaybeexplainedbythefactthatFerdinandSourdis's
debauched life offers similarities with that of Alphonse Daudet,
Zola's friend and fellow author, and that since it was also rumoured
that Madame Daudet had a hand in the writing ofDaudet's books, it
would have been inappropriate to publish the story during Daudet's
lifetime; he died in 1897.
312 the Salon: the annual official art exhibition in Paris.
unceremonioustone:Rennequinusesthefamiliar'tu'towardsAdele, as
though she were still a child.
323 CafeAnglais: a fashionable boulevard cafe.
335 Rue de Clichy: IXth arrondissement; more fashionable but less
charming than the Left Bank Rue d'Assas.
THEHAUNTEDHOUSE(Angeline): writtenduringZola'sEnglishexile(see
Chronology), first published in the London StarinJanuary 1899, andin
French the following month. Monsieur Ripoll in his excellent Pleiadc
editionofZola'sshortstoriespointsoutthattheobsessivesearchfortruth
by the narrator of'The Haunted House' may be likened to the author's
call for the revelation ofthe truth in the Dreyfus case.
347 BibliothequeNationals in Paris, theequivalent ofthe British 1 ibrarv.

A SELECTION OF OXFORD WORLDS CLASSICS
Apollinaire, ThreePre-SurrealistPlays
AlfredJarry, and
Maurice Maeterlinck
Honore de Balzac CousinBette
EugenieGrandet
PereGoriot
Charles Baudelaire TheFlowersofEvil
TheProsePoemsandFanfarlo
Denis Diderot ThisisNotaStoryandOtherStories
Alexandre Dumas (pere) TheBlackTulip
TheCountofMonteCristo
LouisedelaValliere
TheManintheIronMask
LaReineMargot
TheThreeMusketeers
TwentyYearsAfter
Alexandre Dumas (fils) LaDameauxCamelias
Gustave Flaubert MadameBovary
ASentimentalEducation
ThreeTales
Victor Hugo TheLastDayofaCondemnedManand
OtherPrisonWritings
Notrc-DamedeParis
J.-K. Huysmavs AgainstNature
Jean de La Fontainp SelectedFables
Pierre Chodeilos LesLiaisonsdangereuses
de laclos
Mme de Lafayette ThePrincesscdc(Je\es
GuydeMaupassani ADayintheCountrx .mdOtherStones
MademoiselleFifi
Frospir \Iiri\im ( .umenandOtherStones

A SELECTION OF OXFORD WORLDS CLASSICS
Blaise Pascal PenseesandOtherWritings
Jean Racine Britannicus,Phaedra,andAthaliah
Edmond Rostand CyranodeBergerac
Marquis de Sade TheMisfortunesofVirtueandOtherEarly
Tales
George Sand Indiana
TheMasterPipers
Mauprat
TheMillerofAngibault
Stendhal TheRedandtheBlack
TheCharterhouseofParma
Jules Verne AroundtheWorldinEightyDays
JourneytotheCentreoftheEarth
TwentyThousandLeaguesundertheSeas
Voltaire CandideandOtherStories
LettersconcerningtheEnglishNation
Emile Zola L'Assommoir
TheAttackontheMill
LaBetehumaine
Germinal
TheLadies'Paradise
TheMasterpiece
Nana
ThereseRaquin

A SELECTION OF OXFORD WORLDS CLASSICS
TillEulenspiegcl:HisAdventures
EightGermanNovellas
Georg Buchner Danton'sDeath,LeonceandLena,and
Woyzeck
J.
W. von Goethe ElectiveAffinities
EroticPoems
Faust:PartOneandPartTwo
E. T. A. Hoffmann TheGoldenPotandOtherTales
J. C. F. Schiller DonCarlosandMaryStuart

A SELECTION OF OXFORD WORLD'S CLASSICS
Ludovico Ariosto OrlandoFurioso
Giovanni Boccaccio TheDecameron
Matteo MariaBoiardo OrlandoInnamorato
Luis Vazde CamOes TheLusiads
Miguel de Cervantes DonQuixotedelaMancha
ExemplaryStories
Dante Alighieri TheDivineComedy
VitaNuova
Benito Perez Galdos Nazarin
Leonardo da Vinci SelectionsfromtheNotebooks
Niccol6 Machiavelli DiscoursesonLivy
ThePrince
Michelangelo Life,Letters,andPoetry
Petrarch SelectionsfromtheCanzoniereand
Other Works
Giorgio Vasari TheLivesoftheArtists

A SELECTION OF OXFORD WORLD'S CLASSICS
Sergei Aksakov ARussianGentleman
Anton Chekhov EarlyStories
FivePlays
ThePrincessandOtherStories
TheRussianMasterandOtherStories
TheSteppeandOtherStories
TwelvePlays
WardNumberSixandOtherStories
AWoman'sKingdomandOtherStories
Fyodor Dostoevsky AnAccidentalFamily
CrimeandPunishment
Devils
AGentleCreatureandOtherStories
TheIdiot
TheKaramazovBrothers
MemoirsfromtheHouseoftheDead
NotesfromtheUndergroundand
TheGambler
Nikolai Gogol VillageEveningsNearDikankaand
Mirgorod
PlaysandPetersburg
Alexander Herzen Childhood,Youth,andExile
Mikhail Lermontov AHeroofourTime
Alexander Pushkin EugeneOnegin
TheQueenofSpadesandOtherStories
Leo Tolstoy AnnaKarenina
TheKreutzerSonataandOtherStories
TheRaidandOtherStories
Resurrection
WarandPeace
Ivan Turgenev FathersandSons
FirstLoveandOtherStories
A Monthinthe(.ountr\

A SELECTION OF OXFORD WORLD'S CLASSICS
Jane Austen CatharineandOtherWritings
Emma
MansfieldPark
NorthangerAbbey,LadySusan,The
Watsons,andSanditon
Persuasion
PrideandPrejudice
SenseandSensibility
Anne Bronte AgnesGrey
TheTenantofWildfellHall
Charlotte Bronte JaneEyre
TheProfessor
Shirley
Villette
Emily Bronte WutheringHeights
Wilkie Collins TheMoonstone
NoName
TheWomaninWhite
Charles Darwin TheOriginofSpecies
Charles Dickens TheAdventuresofOliverTwist
BleakHouse
DavidCopperfield
GreatExpectations
HardTimes
LittleDorrit
MartinChuzzlewit
NicholasNickleby
TheOldCuriosityShop
OurMutualFriend
ThePickwickPapers
ATaleofTwoCities

A SELECTION OF OXFORD WORLD'S CLASSICS
George Eliot AdamBede
DanielDeronda
Middlemarch
TheMillontheFloss
SilasMarner
Elizabeth Gaskell Cranford
TheLifeofCharlotteBronte
MaryBarton
NorthandSouth
WivesandDaughters
Thomas Hardy FarfromtheMaddingCrowd
JudetheObscure
TheMayorofCasterbridge
APairofBlueEyes
TheReturnoftheNative
Tessofthed'Urbervilles
TheWoodlanders
Walter Scott Ivanhoe
RobRoy
Waverley
Mary Shelley Frankenstein
TheLastMan
Robert Louis KidnappedandCatriona
Stevenson TheStrangeCaseofDrJekylland
MrHydeandWeirofHermiston
TreasureIsland
Bram Stoker Dracula
William Makepeace BarryLyndon
Thackeray VanityFair
Oscar Wilde CompleteShorterFiction
ThePictureofDorianGnq

A SELECTION OF OXFORD WORLD'S CLASSICS
OrientalTales
William Beckford Vathek
James Boswell Boswell'sLifeofJohnson
Frances Burney Camilla
Cecilia
Evelina
TheWanderer
Lord Chesterfield LordChesterfield'sLetters
John Cleland MemoirsofaWomanofPleasure
Daniel Defoe CaptainSingleton
AJournalofthePlagueYear
MemoirsofaCavalier
MollFlanders
RobinsonCrusoe
Roxana
Henry Fielding JosephAndrewsandShamela
AJourneyfromThisWorldtotheNextand
TheJournalofaVoyagetoLisbon
TomJones
TheAdventuresofDavidSimple
William Godwin CalebWilliams
StLeon
Oliver Goldsmith TheVicarofWakefield
Mary Hays MemoirsofEmmaCourtney
Elizabeth Haywood TheHistoryofMissBetsyThoughtless
Elizabeth Inchbald ASimpleStory
SamuelJohnson TheHistoryofRasselas
Charlotte Lennox TheFemaleQuixote
Matthew Lewis TheMonk

A SELECTION OF OXFORD WORLD'S CLASSICS
Ann Radcliffe TheCastlesofAthlinandDunbayne
TheItalian
TheMysteriesofUdolpho
TheRomanceoftheForest
ASicilianRomance
Frances Sheridan MemoirsofMissSidneyBidulph
Tobias Smollett TheAdventuresofRoderickRandom
TheExpeditionofHumphryClinker
TravelsthroughFranceandItaly
Laurence Sterne TheLifeandOpinionsofTristram
Shandy,Gentleman
ASentimentalJourney
Jonathan Swift Gulliver'sTravels
ATaleofaTubandOtherWorks
Horace Walpole TheCastleofOtranto
Gilbert White TheNaturalHistoryofSelborne
Mary Wollstonecraft MaryandTheWrongsofWoman

MORE ABOUT OXFORD WORLD'S CLASSICS
The www.worldsclassics.co.uk
Oxford • Informationaboutnewtitles
World's • ExplorethefullrangeofOxfordWorld's
Classics
Classics
• Linkstootherliterarysitesandthemain
Website OUPwebpage
• Imaginativecompetitions,withbookish
prizes
• PeruseCompass,theOxfordWorld's
Classicsmagazine
• Articlesbyeditors
• ExtractsfromIntroductions
•
Aforumfordiscussionandfeedbackon
theseries
• Specialinformationforteachersand
lecturers
www.worldsclassics.co.uk

MORE ABOUT OXFORD WORLD'S CLASSICS
AmericanLiterature
BritishandIrishLiterature
Children'sLiterature
ClassicsandAncientLiterature
ColonialLiterature
EasternLiterature
EuropeanLiterature
History
MedievalLiterature
OxfordEnglishDrama
Poetry
Philosophy
Politics
Religion
TheOxfordShakespeare
A complete list of Oxford Paperbacks, including Oxford World's Classics,
OPUS, Past Masters, Oxford Authors, Oxford Shakespeare, Oxford Drama,
and Oxford Paperback Reference, is available in the UK from the Academic
Division Publicity Department, Oxford University Press, Great Clarendon
Street,Oxford0x2 6dp.
In the USA, complete lists are available from the Paperbacks Marketing
Manager,OxfordUniversityPress, 198MadisonAvenue,NewYork,NY 10016.
Oxford Paperbacksareavailablefromallgood bookshops. Incaseofdifficulty;
customersinthe UK canorderdirectfromOxfordUni\crsit\ PressBookshop,
IVcepost, 1[6HighStreet,Oxfordoxi -j.hr,enclosingfullpayment Measeadd
10percentofpublishedpriceforpostageandpacking.

BOSTONPUBLICLIBRARY
,
3 9999 o'4592 482 4
BAKER&TAYIOR

OXFORD WORLD'S CLASSICS
Emile Zola
The Attack on the Mill
AND OTHER STORIES
TranslatedwithanIntroductionandNotesbyDouglasParmee
'There is a very distinct interest', wrote Edmund Gosse, in his
introductiontoanearlytranslationof'TheAttackontheMill','inseeing
howsuchathundererandbelloweronthetrumpetcanbreathethrough
silver.'
The'trumpet'clearlyreferstotheepicpowerofZola'sRougon-Macquart
cycle of twenty novels; the 'silver' stands for the very different, wryly
playfulspiritwhichpervadestheshortstories.Buteventhisplayfulspirit
hasawiderange:atoneextremethecruelironyof'CaptainBurle',atthe
other the Rabelaisian exuberance of 'Coqueville on the Spree' and in
betweenavarietyoftones,fromthequietlycynicaltothecompassionate.
The settings ofthe stories also range widely, from aristocratic drawing-
rooms to poverty-stricken garrets, from the cemeteries of Paris to the
countrysideofZola'syouth.
These sixteen stories are offered together for the first time in English
translation. Zola's racy tone is faithfully rendered in these spirited
versionsbyDouglasParmee.
f INTRODUCTION • TEXTUALNOTE • BIBLIOGRAPHY
• CHRONOLOGY • EXPLANATORY NOTES
Coverillustration:detailfromTheEndoftheDay,byHenryHerbertLaThangue.Privatecollection.Photo:
Christie'sImages.
ISBN 0-19-283661-7
OXTORD
UNIVERSITY PRESS
78PW'K^618
OXFORD
www.oup.com £6 -5$l-.35'SA