Acquired Language Disorders: A Case-Based Approach, Third Edition
    
    
    
    
  


  






















m Kl


 Acquired Language Disorders: A Case-Based Approach, Third Edition, is a practical, easy-to-follow, informative guide for ancin


students and clinicians. The authors present each case from an impairment-based perspective with practical applications Ein


for improving activities of daily living, as well as a socially interactive perspective to create a wholistic picture of each case. 


For people with aphasia, clinicians are encouraged to consider not only language but also executive functions, attention, Acquired LAnguAge 


memory, and visuospatial skills. This edition begins with a review of the basics of brain-behavior relationships and pertinent E


medical terminology for treating individuals who have a neurological impairment. Each disorder is then introduced in a lli


case-based format that includes a case scenario with a photo, functional analysis of the patient, critical thinking/learning activities, a diagnostic profile, the new Target assessment snapshot, treatment considerations, and a venn diagram of the a-FROm model with patient goals for each case. special features include “Test your Knowledge” sections based on 10 


disorders


patient scenarios along with an answer key, a Quick Reference Diagnostic chart for alDs, and a Functional communication connections worksheet for treatment planning purposes. 


new to the third edition:


A CAse-BAsed ApproACh


• The 15 clinical cases include new photos along with the Target assessment snapshot depicting level of severity for expression, comprehension, reading, and writing and areas of cognitive impairment. a new case includes a bilingual person with aphasia. 


• all chapters have been updated with relevant research. 


third


third edition


edition


• an a-FROm model graphic for each patient’s treatment goals is included. 


• There is a new assessment summary sheet to help the clinician with the development of a diagnostic profile. 


• The chapter on assessment is updated and new assessments are added, including the assessment of living Acquired L


with aphasia (ala) and the Repeatable Battery for the assessment of neuropsychological status (R-Bans), the EvElyn R. KlEin


Progressive aphasia severity scale (Pass), and more. 


• chapter 10 includes more than 25 treatment approaches and therapeutic programs. 


JamEs m. mancinElli


• The chapter on assessment and service delivery for people with alD includes discussions of the icF and the a-FROm model. 


a cas


About the Authors


E


evelyn r. Klein, Phd, ccc-sLP, Bcs-cL, AshA Fellow, is a Professor at la salle University in the Department A


-Bas


of communication sciences and Disorders. Dr. Klein is a licensed and certified speech-language pathologist ngu


(slP) and a licensed psychologist with a postdoctoral fellowship in clinical neuropsychology through Drexel University. she was a recipient of the clinical achievement award from the Pennsylvania speech-language-ED


hearing association. Dr. Klein has worked as an slP in outpatient rehabilitation, home care, and private A


practice for more than 25 years. she has published in numerous peer-reviewed journals and is the co-author aPPRO


ge 


of several therapeutic treatment programs for people with acquired language disorders. she has taught the acquired language disorders course and received la salle’s lindback Distinguished Teaching award in 2011 and Faculty Distinguished scholarship award in 2018. 


d


ach


isorders


James M. Mancinelli, Phd, ccc-sLP, is an assistant Professor in the Department of communication sciences and Disorders at la salle University in Philadelphia, Pa. he is a licensed and certified speech-language pathologist with 35 years of clinical experience in medical speech-language pathology and held senior slP positions at major hospitals in the greater Philadelphia area. he has worked in the acute care, acute rehab, sub-acute rehab, and long-term care settings throughout his career. From 2003 to 2019, he was also the Director of clinical Education at la salle University. his research interests include acquired apraxia of speech, neurogenic communication disorders, stuttering, clinical education, and supervision. 


Dr. mancinelli has published work in the areas of stuttering, clinical supervision, and the role of the speech-language pathologist in the care of people with als. he has presented both at the american speech-language-hearing association convention and other professional venues. he is also a published poet. 


With contributions by ryan s. husak, Phd, ccc-sLP, assistant Professor in the Department of communication sciences and Disorders at la salle University in Philadelphia, Pa. Dr. husak has worked in a variety of medical-based settings including acute care hospitals, a rehabilitation hospital, and skilled nursing facilities. he has published in several peer-reviewed journals including  Aphasiology and  Neurocase and has presented his work at the american speech-language-hearing association (asha) convention and the clinical aphasiology conference (cac). 


www.pluralpublishing.com


Acquired Language Disorders


A CAse-BAsed ApproACh


 Third Edition



Acquired Language Disorders


A CAse-BAsed ApproACh


 Third Edition


Evelyn R. Klein, PhD, CCC-SLP, BCS-CL


James M. Mancinelli, PhD, CCC-SLP


5521 Ruffin Road


San Diego, CA 92123


e-mail: information@pluralpublishing.com


Website: https://www.pluralpublishing.com


Copyright © 2021 by Plural Publishing, Inc. 


Typeset in 10.5/13 Garamond Book by Flanagan’s Publishing Services, Inc. 


Printed in the United States of America by Integrated Books International All rights, including that of translation, reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, recording, or otherwise, including photocopying, recording, taping, Web distribution, or information storage and retrieval systems without the prior written consent of the publisher. 


For permission to use material from this text, contact us by Telephone: (866) 758-7251


Fax: (888) 758-7255


e-mail: permissions@pluralpublishing.com


 Every attempt has been made to contact the copyright holders for material originally printed in another source. If any have been inadvertently overlooked, the publishers will gladly make the necessary arrangements at the first opportunity. 


Disclaimer: Please note that ancillary content (such as documents, audio, and video, etc.) may not be included as published in the original print version of this book. 


Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data


Names: Klein, Evelyn R., author. | Mancinelli, James M., author. 


Title: Acquired language disorders : a case-based approach / Evelyn R. 


Klein, James M. Mancinelli. 


Description: Third edition. | San Diego : Plural Publishing, Inc., [2021] | 


Includes bibliographical references and index. 


Identifiers: LCCN 2019029826 | ISBN 9781635500974 (paperback) | ISBN 


9781635500981 (ebook)  


Subjects: MESH: Language Disorders--diagnosis | Language Disorders--therapy 


| Language Therapy--methods | Aphasia--diagnosis | Aphasia--therapy | 


Case Reports 


Classification: LCC RC423 | NLM WL 340.2 | DDC 616.85/5--dc23 


LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2019029826





Contents


 Introduction xi


 Acknowledgments xv


 Contributor xvii


Chapter 1. An Overview of Neuroanatomy and Neurophysiology ) 1 


Related to Acquired Language Disorders (ALD


The Neuron 


1


Neurotransmitters 2


Sensory 3


The Brain:  A Brief Review of Structure and Function 


4


The Coverings of the Brain, Ventricles, and Cerebrospinal Fluid 5


Cerebral Cortex 


5


The Brainstem 


10


Subcortical Structures 


11


The Cerebellum 


12


Neural Pathways 


13


Cerebral Blood Flow 


15


Cerebrovascular Accidents 


16


Brain Imaging and Selected Medical Tests for Acquired Language Disorders 19


CAT Scan or CT Scan 


19


MRI 19


fMRI 20


PET Scan 


20


SPECT Scan 


20


ASL (Arterial Spin Labeling) 


20


Examination of the Carotids: Doppler Ultrasound or Auscultation of the Carotids 20


Endocardiography 21


Angiography 21


References 21


Chapter 2. Assessment and Service Delivery in Acquired Language Disorders 23


Approaches to Assessment in Acquired Language Disorders 


23


Purpose of Assessment 


23


Assessment of Language Functions 


25


Characteristics of Aphasia 


25


Definitions of the Clinical Characteristics of the Major Aphasias 27


Areas to Consider Using the ALD Target Assessment Model 


30


The Target Assessment Snapshot in Acquired Language Disorders 31


Screening and Diagnostic Assessment 


33





v


 


vi  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Screening Tests 


34


Diagnostic Assessment in Acquired Language Disorders: Making Sound Decisions 35


Selected Assessments for Acquired Language Disorders 


37


Modifications to Standard Assessments 


53


Goal Setting Based on Diagnostic Results 


55


Service Delivery and the World Health Organization 


55


The International Classification of Functioning (ICF) and Living with Aphasia: 55 


Framework for Outcome Measurement (A-FROM model)


Service Delivery for People with Acquired Language Disorders 57


The Acute Care Setting 


57


The Rehabilitation Setting 


57


The Home Care Setting 


58


The Outpatient Setting 


60


The Long-Term Care (LTC) Setting 


61


Monitoring Change and Continuation of Services 


63


Documentation of Progress 


63


Summary 65


References 65


Appendix 2–A:  Functional Communication Connections Octagon 70


Appendix 2–B:  Quick Reference Diagnostic Chart for Acquired Language Disorders 71


Chapter 3. The Major Nonfluent Aphasias 


81


Introduction 81


Broca’s Type Aphasia 


84


Characteristics 84


A Functional Analysis of Maurice 


87


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity 


87


Treatment Considerations 


89


Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM  90


Transcortical Motor Aphasia 


91


Characteristics 91


A Functional Analysis of Vincent 


92


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity 


94


Treatment Considerations 


95


Therapeutic Goals with A-FROM  95


Global Aphasia 


97


Characteristics 97


A Functional Case Analysis for Elizabeth 


99


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity 


99


Treatment Considerations 


101


Therapeutic Goals with A-FROM  102


References 103


Chapter 4. The Fluent Aphasias 


107


Introduction 107


Wernicke’s Type Aphasia 


108


 contents 


vii


Characteristics 108


A Functional Analysis of Mildred’s Wernicke’s Aphasia 


111


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity 


113


Treatment Considerations 


114


Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM  114


Transcortical Sensory Aphasia 


115


Characteristics 115


A Functional Analysis of John’s TSA 


117


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity 


117


Treatment Considerations 


119


Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM  120


Conduction Aphasia 


121


Characteristics 121


A Functional Analysis of Miriam’s Aphasia 


123


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity 


123


Treatment Considerations 


123


Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM  125


Anomic Aphasia 


127


Characteristics 127


A Functional Analysis of Sophie’s Aphasia 


128


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity 


130


Treatment Considerations 


131


Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM 


131


References 133


Chapter 5.  Other Aphasic Syndromes 


135


Subcortical Aphasia 


135


Introduction 135


Characteristics of Subcortical Aphasias 


136


A Functional Analysis of Winnie’s Subcortical Aphasia 


141


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity 


143


Treatment Considerations 


143


Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM 144


Primary Progressive Aphasia 


146


Introduction 146


Characteristics 146


A Functional Analysis of Luis’s Primary Progressive Aphasia 148


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity 


150


Treatment Considerations 


151


Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM 151


Acquired Alexia and Agraphia 


153


Characteristics 153


Alexia 153


Agraphia 154


A Functional Analysis of Sue’s Alexia 


158


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity 


158


  viii  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Treatment Considerations 


158


Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM 160


Aphasia in the Bilingual Person 


161


Recovery Patterns in Bilingual Aphasia 


162


Cognitive Control in Differential Aphasia 


162


A Functional Analysis of Hamid’s Bilingual Aphasia 


164


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity 


166


Treatment Considerations 


166


Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM 167


References 169


Chapter 6.  Right Hemisphere Disorder 


173


Introduction 173


Characteristics 173


Communication Deficits 


174


RHD and Pragmatic Impairment 


174


Visual-Perceptual Deficits 


175


Visuomotor Deficits 


175


Auditory Perceptual Deficits 


176


Cognitive Deficits 


176


A Functional Analysis of Debra 


177


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity 


180


Treatment Considerations 


180


Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM 181


References 182


Chapter 7. Traumatic Brain Injury 


185


Introduction 185


Characteristics 187


Types of Brain Injury 


187


Symptoms Related to Localization of the TBI 


188


Prognostic Considerations in Head Injury 


188


Premorbid Intelligence 


188


Age at the Time of Injury 


189


Duration of Coma 


189


Posttraumatic Amnesia 


189


Medical Complications 


190


Posttraumatic Seizures 


190


Hydrocephalus 191


Spasticity 191


Cognitive-Linguistic Impairment Due to TBI 


191


Establishing Goals for the Therapeutic Course 


193


Postconcussive Syndrome 


193


Mild TBI (mTBI) 


194


Rating Scales for Functional Outcomes 


195


Rancho Los Amigos (RLA) 


195


 contents 


ix


Disability Rating Scale (DRS) 


196


General Treatment Issues 


196


Errorless Learning 


200


A Note About Generalization in People with TBI 


200


A Functional Analysis of Samuel’s TBI 


201


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity 


204


Treatment Considerations 


204


Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM 205


References 206


Chapter 8.  Dementia 


209


Introduction 209


Characteristics 209


Diagnostic Factors 


210


The Stages of Dementia 


212


Memory Systems and Dementia 


213


Types of Dementia 


214


Vascular Dementia (VaD) 


214


Parkinson’s Dementia 


215


Frontotemporal Dementias (FTD) 


216


Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD) 


216


Huntington’s Disease 


217


Overview of Research on Treatment for Dementia 


217


A Functional Analysis of Max’s Dementia 


219


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity 


222


Treatment Considerations 


222


Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM 223


References 224


Chapter 9.  Encephalopathy 


227


Introduction 227


Characteristics 228


Drug and Alcohol Intoxication:  Two Common Etiologies for Encephalopathy 228


A Functional Analysis of Tommy 


229


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity 


232


Treatment Considerations 


232


Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM 233


References 235


Chapter 10.  Selected Treatment Programs and Approaches 237


Historical Overview of Efficacy and Evidence in the Treatment of Acquired Language 237 


Disorders (ALD) in Adults


Randomized Controlled Trials (rCTs) and Aphasia Treatment 238


Trends in Treatment for Acquired Language Disorders 


239


Biological and Pharmacologic Interventions 


239


Using Neuroimaging to Predict Recovery in People with Aphasia 240


 


x  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Intensity of Treatment 


241


Computer-Assisted Technology and Treatment of Aphasia 


242


AAC for Adults with ALD: Aphasia, PPA, TBI, and Dementia 


243


The Use of Applications (Apps) in the Rehabilitation of the ALD Patient 244


Selected Treatment Programs for Acquired Language Disorders 245


A Treatment Sequence for Phonological Alexia/Agraphia 


246


Anagram, Copy, and Recall Therapy (ACRT) 


247


Concurrent Treatment for Reading and Spelling in Aphasia:   Oral Reading Treatment 249 


(ORT) and  Copy and Recall Treatment (CART)


Constraint-Induced Language Therapy (CILT) 


250


Conversational Coaching 


252


Divergent Word Retrieval 


253


Life Participation Approach to Aphasia (LPAA) 


254


Lingraphica® 255


Mapping Therapy 


257


Melodic Intonation Therapy (MIT) 


258


MossTalk Words (MTW) 


260


Narrative Story Cards 


261


Nonsymbolic Movements for Activation of Intention (NMAI) 


262


Normal Sentence Production 


263


Oral Reading for Language in Aphasia (ORLA) and ORLA with Virtual Therapist (ORLA-VT)  264


Promoting Aphasics’ Communicative Effectiveness (PACE) 


265


Response Elaboration Training (RET) 


266


Schuell’s Stimulation Approach 


267


Semantic Feature Analysis (SFA) 


269


Sentence Production Program for Aphasia (SPPA) 


270


SentenceShaper® 272


Speech Entrainment 


272


Treatment of Underlying Forms (TUF) 


273


Verb Network Strengthening Treatment (VNeST) 


273


Visual Action Therapy (VAT) 


275


References 277


Appendix A.   case history Form 


283


Appendix B.   seven domains Assessment summary sheet 287


Appendix C.   cognitive-Linguistic evaluation 


289


Appendix d.   the World health organization and the international classification 299 


of Functioning, disability, and health


Appendix e.   the octagon Worksheet for Functional communication 303


Appendix F.   test Your Knowledge 


305


 Index 315





Introduction


New and experienced clinicians may find it challeng-


the learner, who can better conceptualize the spe-


ing when attempting to integrate theoretical knowl-


cific characteristics of the disorder in the context 


edge and research into clinical practice. We have 


of a real person. We believe it is essential to under-


noted that it isn’t until the clinician actually encoun-


stand not only the basic pathophysiology of a dis-


ters a person with a specific disorder that academic 


ease process associated with an acquired language 


knowledge and practice coincide. Given our years of 


disorder, but also the functional effects it may have 


experience as both teachers and practitioners, it is 


on a person’s life. For purposes of anonymity and 


our intention to bridge the gap between theory and 


confidentiality, the patients’ names and identifying 


practice by providing the reader with a case-based 


information have been changed. 


approach to understanding acquired language disor-


ders (ALD). To further our goal in making ALD come 


to life for the reader, we have developed a model that 


special Features


depicts the individual’s language and cognition fol-


lowing a cerebrovascular accident or other neurologic 


event. We refer to this as the ALD Target Assessment 


The 15 cases in this book offer a comprehensive 


Snapshot, and each of the 15 cases that we discuss 


overview of the assessment process, major aphasic 


has a corresponding figure within the chapter. 


syndromes, including bilingual aphasia, right hemi-


Our classroom experience has clearly demon-


sphere disorder, traumatic brain injury, dementia, 


strated that students benefit from the graphic fea-


encephalopathy, and other etiologies affecting the 


tures of the Target Assessment Snapshot because it 


ability to communicate. The final chapter provides 


facilitates a concrete understanding of the linguis-


information about selected treatment programs and 


tic and cognitive characteristics of each case. This 


therapeutic approaches for individuals with ALD 


model, combined with salient features of the various 


currently in use and new trends in therapeutic inter-


disorders, case analyses, and treatment consider-


vention with the ALD population. 


ations, connects theoretical knowledge with prac-


Each chapter is based on a case study and 


tical application. In our opinion, this case-based 


includes eight sections:


approach matches the needs of speech-language 


pathologists practicing in health care today. 


n  Characteristics of the disorder including 


neurologic correlates


n  Case Scenario providing a brief overview 


how the Book Is organized


of the case history


n  Diagnostic Profile including language 


expression, speech production, auditory 


Each chapter includes a fictional person based upon 


comprehension, reading, written 


an actual case that was treated in a health care set-


expression, cognition, and behavioral 


ting, private practice, or home health environment 


symptoms of the case


to exemplify a specific acquired language disorder. 


n The Target Assessment Snapshot 


These case scenarios were developed based on 


presents a visual representation that 


actual patients who the authors or their colleagues 


captures the type and degree of language 


have evaluated and treated. Using real clinical cases 


impairment as well as any areas of 


brings to life each communication impairment for 


cognition that may be affected. 





xi


  xii  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch n  Functional Analysis consists of a 


Normal Communication Embedded within


narrative that succinctly summarizes  


Normal Cognitive Functions


the case and helps the clinician under-


stand the impact of the disability on  


daily life. 


Attention


Memory


n  Critical Thinking/Learning Activity 


poses questions designed to help the 


Expression


student or clinician develop problem-


solving and practical skills necessary to 


E


maximize the patient’s progress. 


R


Language


W


n  Treatment Considerations provide areas 


to consider for rehabilitation based on 


Reading


C


Writing


the patient’s strengths and weaknesses, 


Comprehension


individualized to his/her psychosocial 


context. General therapeutic objectives are 


also provided. 


Executive Functions


Visual Spatial


n  Therapeutic Goals with the A-FROM 


Model (Aphasia: Framework for 


Figure I–1.  the Acquired Language disorders 


Outcome Measurement) is based on the 


target Model. 


International Classification of Functioning 


(ICF), disability and health (World 


Health Organization, 2001).  For each 


and cognition as well as the relationship among 


of the 15 cases, quality of life goals are 


functional language modalities. 


provided. The A-FROM model provides 


There are five primary domains of the ALD Tar-


a visual representation of the patient’s 


get Model: Language, Attention, Memory, Executive 


language and related impairments, 


Functions, and Visual Spatial skills. The Language 


communication environment, participation 


domain includes four areas: expression, comprehen-


in life situations, and personal factors 


sion, reading, and writing. Expression (E) and com-


including identity, attitudes, and feelings 


prehension (C) involve the verbal modality; whereas 


(Kagan, 2011). The framework was 


reading (R) and writing (W) involve the visual 


adapted to provide a profile of treatment 


modality. Although as speech-language pathologists 


considerations for patients with a variety 


we are clinically oriented to the Language domain, 


of neurogenic communication disorders, 


we must not neglect the other four cognitive areas of 


not only aphasia. 


functioning because they are integral to functional 


communication. 


For an individual who has normal communi-


The Acquired Language 


cative functions, the lettered squares (E, C, R, and 


disorders Target Model


W) remain attached to the rectangle containing the 


word  Language.  For an individual with an acquired language disorder, the lettered squares separate 


We developed the Acquired Language Disorders 


from the  Language rectangle, reflecting the level Target Assessment Snapshot from an embedded lan-of impairment for that domain. The numbers 1 to 4 


guage framework. This model is shown in Figure I–1 


are assigned to further reflect the level of severity 


and reflects the influence that cognition plays in 


with 1 being normal (typical) and 4 being severely 


normal communication and, by extension, in the 


impaired. For each type of acquired language disor-


rehabilitation of people with acquired language 


der, the pattern is different. For example, in a per-


disorders. The physical appearance of the model 


son with an expressive nonfluent aphasia (Broca’s), 


depicts a schematic relationship between language 


the E square and the W square are placed on or 


 introduction 


xiii


outside the circular border with the subscript 3 or 


n  The value of the case-based approach 


4 to indicate more impaired functioning. Depend-


to ALD is that it facilitates comparisons 


ing on the acquired language disorder, any or all 


among types of patients. This optimizes 


of these language modalities may be impaired at 


more accurate decision-making for 


varying degrees. This ranges from normal, to mild-


planning treatment. As a learning tool, the 


moderate, to moderate-severe, to severe-profound. 


case-based approach helps the student or 


Impairment level is depicted in Figure I–2. 


practitioner to attach clinical information 


The ALD Target Assessment Snapshot includes 


to a case that is also represented with a 


the cognitive domains of attention, memory, visuo-


photo image. 


spatial skills, and executive functions in aphasia 


n  The ALD Target Assessment Snapshot, 


that should be considered in a standard evalua-


combined with the Functional Analysis, 


tion for treatment planning (Helm-Estabrooks & 


can be very useful for clinical practice 


Albert, 2004). A line through any of the four cog-


in a health care setting. This permits 


nitive domains in each specific case marks that 


the student or practitioner to integrate 


domain as impaired. For example, in an individual 


the neurologic, cognitive, linguistic, and 


with severely impaired executive functions, the box 


functional aspects of each patient to 


labeled  Executive Functions will have a line bisect-formulate a complete picture for treatment. 


ing the word. 


n Many current treatment approaches are 


provided to assist the practitioner in 


planning a program for each patient. 


how to Use This Book


n  Each case has a one-page diagnostic 


profile that describes each patient’s 


language expression, speech, auditory 


For the student and the practitioner


comprehension, reading, written expres-


sion, cognition, and behavioral symptoms. 


n  A graphic image of the ALD Target Assess-


In addition, an  Assessment Summary Sheet 


ment Snapshot representing each disorder 


is available to help the clinician develop 


enhances the student’s or practitioner’s 


his or her own patient profile. 


understanding of cognitive-linguistic 


changes pertinent to that specific case. 


1 – Normal


Attention


Memory


2 – Mild-Moderate Impairment


3 – Moderate-Severe Impairment


E3


4 – Severe-Profound Impairment


Impaired Cognitive Function


R


Language


W


2


4


C1


Executive Functions


Visual Spatial


Figure I–2.  the key to understanding the Acquired Language disorders target Model. 


xiv  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch n  Each case includes a set of personal goals 


n A  Test Your Knowledge examination is 


pertinent to the patient. In addition, a 


also provided using seven case-based 


diagram of the Aphasia: Framework for 


examples. 


Outcome Measurement (A-FROM) depicts 


n  The Aphasia Framework for Outcome 


areas of treatment considerations for the 


Measurement (A-FROM) model helps 


patient’s  Participation in Life Situations;  


instructors teach students to formulate 


 Personal Identity, Attitudes, and 


personal goals pertinent to the patient 


 Feelings;  Communication and Language 


for  Participation in Life Situations;  


 Environment;  and  Language and Related 


 Personal Identity, Attitudes, and 


 Impairments (Kagan et al., 2008). 


 Feelings;  Communication and Language 


 Environment;  and  Language and Related 


 Impairments (Kagan et al., 2008). 


For the Instructor


n  An overview of basic neuroanatomy for 


references


acquired language disorders is provided. 


n  This book offers a detailed summary of 


many formal and informal assessments and 


Helm-Estabrooks, N., & Albert, M. L. (2004).  Manual treatment programs for those with ALD. 


 of aphasia and aphasia therapy (2nd ed.). Austin, n  There are 15 case-based acquired language 


TX: Pro-Ed. 


disorders, each with assessment and 


Kagan, A. (2011). A-FROM in action at the Aphasia 


treatment considerations, to facilitate class 


Institute.  Seminars in Speech and Language,  32, 216–228. 


discussion and clinical problem solving. 


Kagan, A., Simmons-Mackie, N., Rowland, A., Hui-


n Charts, tables, and figures including the 


jbregts, M., Shumway, E., McEwen, . . . Sharp, S. 


ALD Target Assessment Snapshot help 


(2008). Counting what counts: A framework for 


categorize and concretize the various 


capturing real-life outcomes of aphasia interven-


acquired language disorders. 


tion.  Aphasiology,  22(3), 258–280. https://doi.org/ 


n  Functional treatment can be easily planned 


10.1080/02687030701282595


using the  Functional Communication 


World Health Organization (WHO). (2001).  Interna-


 Connections  worksheet. 


 tional Classification for Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF).  Geneva, Switzerland: Author. 





Acknowledgments


We would like to thank Plural Publishing for the 


team supported us throughout the process and did 


opportunity to prepare a third edition of  Acquired 


so professionally, diligently, and graciously. We are 


 Language Disorders: A Case-Based Approach for 


honored that clinicians working with patients with 


the benefit of students, clinicians, and the patients 


acquired language disorders, as well as professors 


they serve. We appreciate the support of Barbara 


teaching students about acquired language disor-


Amster, PhD, CCC-SLP, Chair and Program Direc-


ders, saw the continued value in this text. We are 


tor of the Department of Communication Sciences 


especially excited and honored that our colleague, 


and Disorders, and Kathleen Czekanski, PhD, RN, 


Ryan Husak, PhD, CCC-SLP, accepted our invitation 


CNE, Dean of the School of Nursing and Health 


to contribute to this edition. The editorial comments 


Sciences. We are also grateful for the guidance and 


and academic information that he provided have 


input provided by Plural Publishing from Valerie 


been invaluable and enhanced the quality of this 


Johns, Executive Editor; Kalie Koscielak, Associate 


third edition. We would also like to thank our gradu-


Acquisitions Editor; Elisa Andersen, Editorial & Mar-


ate assistants, Olivia Scarnulis and Melissa Wojcik, 


keting Assistant; Lori Asbury, Production Manager; 


for their diligence in helping us to procure neces-


Jessica Bristow, Production Assistant, and Carol 


sary information for this text. 


Elliott, Copyeditor. Our editorial and production 





xv






Contributor


Ryan Husak, PhD, CCC-SLP


Assistant Professor


Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders


La Salle University


Philadelphia, Pennsylvania





xvii



 Evelyn Klein and James Mancinelli dedicate this book to the people with acquired language disorders and their families whom we have treated. 


 Their courage and determination are inspirational. 






 Chapter 1


An overvIew oF neUroAnAToMy 


And neUrophysIoLogy reLATed 


To ACqUIred LAngUAge 


dIsorders (ALd)


The neuron


glands to regulate hormonal secretions. Input from 


sensory neurons can be transmitted to motor neu-


rons; for example, a sensory neuron may detect a 


The brain has more than 100 billion neurons, or 


dangerous stimulus and respond by alerting inter-


nerve cells. These structures comprise the build-


neurons in the spinal cord to notify the motor neu-


ing blocks of the nervous system and are its func-


rons to remove that body part in danger. At the 


tional “work horses.” Each neuron is composed of a 


endpoint or terminal of the nerve cell, neurotrans-


body, referred to as the soma; filamental extensions 


mitters are released into the synaptic space between 


called dendrites; and longer fibers called axons. 


the cells. Neurotransmitters are biochemical com-


Each neuron has one axonal fiber that can mea-


pounds that help neurons communicate, acting as 


sure from micrometers to meters in length (Figure 


messengers between them (Figure 1–2). 


1–1). The axon functions as a conductor of elec-


trical impulses. Dendrites receive stimuli or input 


from other neurons, and axons send stimuli to other 


neurons, glands, or muscles (Webb & Adler, 2008). 


Dendrites


Nucleus


These neurons communicate with each other elec-


trochemically via neurotransmitters (a discussion of 


neurotransmitters appears in this chapter). 


Myelin Sheath


The nervous system has sensory neurons 


Axon


(receptors) and motor neurons (effectors). Sensory 


neurons are sensitive to light, sound, touch, tem-


perature, smell, and chemical input, and transmit 


Soma


sensory information from the environment via the 


Axon


nervous system. Motor neurons receive excitation 


Hillock


from other cells and send impulses to the muscles 


instructing them to contract and to the endocrine 


Figure 1–1.  neuron. 





1


 


2  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Dendrites


Dendrites


Nucleus


Nucleus


Myelin Sheath


Myelin Sheath


Muscle


Muscle


Axon


Axon


Soma


Soma


Axon


Direction of


Axon


Direction of


Hillock


Neural Impulse


Hillock


Neural Impulse


A


B


Tip of axon


Synaptic


Terminal


cleft


Receptors


Postsynaptic


membrane


Neurotransmitters


released


C


Figure 1–2.   A.  Motor neuron. B. sensory neuron. C. events at synapse. 


neurotransmitters


activity, speech and language, motivation, person-


ality, mood states, and cognition including atten-


tion and memory (Bhatnagar, 2002). Each neuron 


Neurotransmitters are chemicals that assist in the 


releases neurotransmitters at the synapse, which is 


regulation of the brain’s ability to control metabolic 


where the bulb of the axon makes contact with the 


  1.  An overvieW oF neuroAnAtoMY & neurophYsioLogY reLAted to Acquired LAnguAge disorders  3


Sensory


Gray matter


White matter


Sensory


input


Dorsal root 


ganglion


Ventral root


Motor output


Motor


Figure 1–3.   spinal cord cross-section. 


dendrites. The neurotransmitter passes across the 


mitters include acetylcholine, serotonin, dopamine, 


synaptic cleft and bonds with the receptor site on 


norepinephrine, glutamate, histamine, and gamma 


the postsynaptic membrane. This results in a change 


aminobutyric acid (GABA). In this group, GABA is 


in the electrical current across the cell membrane 


primarily inhibitory whereas glutamate is excitatory. 


and the nerve fibers. The change in the electrical 


Yet in many cases, neurotransmitters can be either 


valence of the cell is referred to as the action poten-


excitatory or inhibitory depending on the recep-


tial. An excess or depletion of neurotransmitters can 


tor site. Dopamine can act in this way. The large 


have significant effects on functioning. For exam-


molecule neuropeptides include vasopressin, soma-


ple, excess dopamine interacting with other factors 


tostatin, neurotensin, enkephalin, and endorphins. 


has been linked to schizophrenia, and a depletion 


These neuroactive substances are hormone-medi-


of dopamine concentration contributes to Parkin- 


ated and affect the body’s metabolic functioning. 


son’s disease. 


A pituitary peptide such as endorphin is opioid-


like and functions in pain management. Neuroac-


tive peptides may be specific to particular organs 


sensory


and have multiple roles in the body. Both groups of 


neurotransmitters are crucial to a person’s feelings 


of pleasure, pain, stress, cravings, the promotion of 


There are two main types of neurotransmitters: 


sleep and rest, and emotional attachment, as well as 


the small molecules and the large molecules, also 


basic metabolic functioning (Schwartz, 1991; Webb 


known as neuropeptides. The small molecule trans-


& Adler, 2008) (Table 1–1). 


 


4  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Table 1–1.   selected neurotransmitters


neurotransmitter


distribution


proposed Impact


Acetylcholine


it is the primary neurotransmitter 


involved in voluntary movement of skeletal 


of the peripheral nervous system 


muscles and viscera including spinal and 


(pns) and important to the central 


cranial nerves. drugs that affect cholinergic 


nervous system (cns) as well. it is 


activity within the body impact heart rate, 


concentrated in the basal forebrain, 


bladder function, digestion, and may cause dry 


striatum, and reticular formation. it 


mouth. this neurotransmitter is also important 


is also concentrated within regions 


to sleep-wake cycles. decreased cholinergic 


of the brainstem involved with 


projections on muscle cells are found in 


cognition and memory. 


myasthenia gravis. decreased projections in 


the hippocampus and orbitofrontal cortex are 


related to Alzheimer’s disease. 


dopamine


concentrated in neuronal groups 


decreased dopamine in the brain is linked to 


in the basal ganglia. dopaminergic 


parkinson’s disease. An increase of dopamine 


projections originate in the 


in the forebrain is linked to schizophrenia. 


substantia nigra and have terminals 


dopamine is involved in cognition and 


in the cortex, amygdala, and nucleus 


motivation and is related to wanting pleasure 


accumbens. 


associated with love and addiction. 


norepinephrine


norepinephrine neurons are found 


important to maintaining attention and focus. 


in the pons and medulla. Most are 


it increases excitation in the brain and is 


in the reticular formation and locus 


involved in wakefulness and arousal. it is 


ceruleus. 


also associated with the sympathetic nervous 


system and feelings of panic, fight, or flight. 


serotonin


synthesized from the amino acid 


controls mood, regulates sleep, involved in 


tryptophan and found in blood 


perception of pain, body temperature, blood 


platelets and the gastrointestinal 


pressure, and hormonal functioning. Low 


tract. terminals are localized in 


levels are associated with depression. it is also 


nerve pathways from the nuclei at 


involved in memory and emotion. 


the center of the reticular formation. 


gABA


A major neurotransmitter with 


Loss of gABA in the striatum is linked to a 


cells found in the cerebral cortex, 


degenerative disease that causes involuntary 


cerebellum, and hippocampus. gABA 


abnormal movements (huntington’s chorea). 


projections are inhibitory from the 


it is associated with the inhibition of motor 


striatum to the globus pallidus and 


neurons. 


substantia nigra to the thalamus. 


The Brain:  A Brief review of 


weighs about 350 grams (12 ounces) and is about 


structure and Function


1,000 grams (2.2 pounds) at 1 year old. For an adult, 


the brain weighs approximately 1,200 to 1,400 grams 


(2.6 to 3.1 pounds) and does not have the ability 


The central nervous system consists of the brain and 


to create new connections with other neurons, as 


spinal cord. Each segment of the spinal cord has 


most neurons cannot be replaced. This section dis-


both sensory and motor nerves that innervate our 


cusses the brain’s covering, the ventricles, and the 


skin, organs, and muscles (Figure 1–3). During brain 


following major structures of the central nervous 


development in childhood, neurons create new 


system: the cerebral cortex, brainstem, subcortical 


connections with other neurons. At birth, the brain 


structures, cerebellum, and the neural pathways. 


  1.  An overvieW oF neuroAnAtoMY & neurophYsioLogY reLAted to Acquired LAnguAge disorders  5


The Coverings of the Brain, 


Cerebral Cortex


ventricles, and Cerebrospinal Fluid


The cerebral cortex is also referred to as the cere-


There are three layers of tissues, the meninges, 


brum and it composes the largest part of the brain. It 


which protect the brain. They include the dura mater, 


is involved in complex thought and executive func-


arachnoid membrane, and pia mater. Between the 


tions, learning, personality, movement, touch, vision, 


arachnoid membrane and pia mater is the subarach-


and is divided into two hemispheres: right and left. 


noid space. This space contains blood vessels and 


The outer surface of each hemisphere is composed 


cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). 


of gray matter that contains nerve cell bodies (more 


The CSF protects the brain. It is a clear and 


than 6 billion), glial cells, capillaries, axons, and 


colorless fluid that circulates throughout the brain 


dendrites. The gray matter directs sensory or motor 


and the spinal cord cushioning and protecting them 


stimuli to the interneurons of the central nervous 


from injury. There are four ventricles within the 


system for responsiveness via synaptic activation. 


brain: two lateral ventricles, the third ventricle, and 


White matter consists of axons that travel through-


the fourth ventricle. Each ventricle contains the cho-


out the cortex. These structures are referred to as 


roid plexus, which is the structure that produces the 


white matter because of the color of the myelinated 


CSF. The CSF flows from one ventricle to the next 


sheaths that wrap each axon. The color reflects the 


and finally into the subarachnoid space. It is reab-


fact that they consist primarily of lipids, or fatty 


sorbed back into the blood. The lateral ventricles 


material. As noted in the section on neurons, the 


are connected to the third ventricle, and the third 


axon is responsible for carrying information away 


ventricle is connected to the fourth. Blockage in 


from the brain to the periphery. These axons form 


any of the spaces can cause CSF to back up, leading 


tracts, and the tracts take the information to their 


to a number of serious medical conditions includ-


intended destination. Two neurologic diseases that 


ing hydrocephalus, which increases pressure on the 


manifest white matter changes are multiple sclero-


brain (Figures 1–4 and 1–5). 


sis, which destroys the myelin shield surrounding 


the axons, and Alzheimer’s disease. In Alzheimer’s 


disease, these white matter changes produce amy-


loid plaques. 


Lateral ventricles


The two hemispheres of the brain primarily 


receive sensory information from the contralateral 


side of the body and affect movement on the con-


tralateral side of the body. The two hemispheres 


are separated by a longitudinal fissure, but com-


municate by two large bundles of axons, the corpus 


callosum, composed of cortical association fibers, 


and subcortical connections. The proper and effi-


cient functioning of the corpus callosum is critical 


to the transmission of information between the left 


and right hemispheres. The left hemisphere typi-


Third ventricle


cally is best for processing speech and language and 


is involved in verbal memory. The right hemisphere 


Fourth ventricle


has been known to process paralinguistic informa-


tion and pragmatics, as well as providing skills with 


nonlinguistic information that is visual, spatial, emo-


tional, and musical. 


The cerebral cortex integrates sensory and 


motor signals in order to execute the primary sen-


Figure 1–4.  ventricles. 


sory, motor, and association area functions. The 


 


6  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Superior sagittal sinus


Skin of scalp


Dura mater


Periosteum


Bone of skull


Dura mater


Arachnoid


Subarachnoid


space


Arachnoid granulation


Cerebral cortex


Figure 1–5.  Meninges. 


sensory areas of the cortex receive input from the 


trols the left side of the body. Damage to either 


environment such as touch, taste, smell, vision, and 


hemisphere can result in paralysis or lost sensation. 


hearing. The motor areas are responsible for mus-


Weakness on one side of the body is referred to as 


cular activity throughout the body. The association 


hemiparesis, and paralysis on one side of the body 


areas of the cortex connect the sensory and motor 


is referred to as hemiplegia. Thus, if a person has a 


systems and give humans the ability to integrate the 


left hemispheric stroke with a paralysis on the right 


sensory (afferent) and the motor (efferent) informa-


side of the body, that person has a right hemiple-


tion, permitting normal function. 


gia. If the right side is only weak, it is then a right 


The following website provides an overview of 


hemiparesis. 


midsagittal brain structures and functions: http://


The following website provides an overview of 


www.psych.ualberta.ca/~ITL/brain/ (Figure 1–6). 


the lobes of the brain and their associated functions: 


This figure illustrates structures of the subcortex 


http://www.stanford.edu/group/hopes/basics/brain 


and cerebellar, and brainstem regions. 


tut/ab4.html. The lateral views provide further detail 


of the structural landmarks and functional associa-


 Lobes of the Brain


tion areas of a cerebral hemisphere (Figure 1–8). 


Each hemisphere is composed of four lobes: the 


The Frontal Lobes.   The frontal lobes are at the 


frontal, temporal, parietal, and occipital (Figure 1–7). 


most anterior part of the brain. The anterior limit of 


The left side of the brain generally controls the right 


the frontal lobe is dorsal and posterior to the bony 


side of the body, and the right hemisphere con-


case of the eyes. The posterior limit of the frontal 


  1.  An overvieW oF neuroAnAtoMY & neurophYsioLogY reLAted to Acquired LAnguAge disorders  7


Fornix, body


Thalamus


Fornix, column


Choroid plexus


Posterior


Corpus callosum, body


commissure


Pineal


Anterior


commissure


Superior


colliculus


Hypothalamus


Optic chiasm


Mamillary body


Basilar pons


Inferior


colliculus


Cerebellum


Pyramid


Medulla


Figure 1–6. Midsagittal view of the brain. 


lobes is the precentral gyrus. The posterior portion 


and let us appropriately judge what we are doing in 


of the frontal lobe is specialized for control of move-


the environment and how we initiate and respond 


ment. In humans, the frontal lobe is critical for lan-


to life’s events. Proper functioning assists with 


guage production. The prefrontal area is important 


our emotional response and expressive language 


for planning and initiation, judgment and reason-


choices. Essentially, the frontal lobes make us aware 


ing, concentration, emotional range, disinhibition 


of our conscious actions. Our emotional responses, 


of behaviors, and adaptation to change. Functions 


memory for habits, motor activities, and expressive 


of the frontal lobes are essential to consciousness 


language are all mediated by the frontal lobe. 








8  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Parietal lobe


Central sulcus


Superior


Occipital lobe


Frontal lobe


frontal gyrus


Postcentral gyrus


Lateral sulcus


Cerebellum


Temporal lobe


Figure 1–7.   Lobes of the brain. 


A


People who have frontal lobe damage may 


demonstrate the following impairments:


Motor


Somatosensory


Supplementary


Somatosensory


n  Loss of simple movement (paralysis)


motor


association


n  Loss of spontaneously interacting with 


Premotor


Visual


others


association


n  Loss of flexible thinking


n  Persistence on a single thought 


(perseveration)


n  Inability to focus on a task


n  Mood changes that are frequent and 


inappropriate (emotional lability)


n  Changes in personality and social behavior


n  Difficulty in problem-solving


n  Inability to express language (Broca’s 


Auditory


nonfluent aphasia)


association


Taste


Visual


n  Inability to sequence complex movements


Auditory


B


The Temporal Lobes.  The temporal lobes are 


Figure 1–8.   A.  Lateral view of the brain with located laterally in the cerebral hemispheres, approx-structural landmarks. B.  Lateral view of the brain imately at the level of the ears. They house the pri-with primary functions and secondary associa-


mary and secondary auditory cortex and are involved 


tion areas. 


  1.  An overvieW oF neuroAnAtoMY & neurophYsioLogY reLAted to Acquired LAnguAge disorders  9


in auditory sensation and perception. Wernicke’s 


fissure (angular gyrus and supramarginal gyrus), 


area is located in the posterior part of the supe-


which are also very important areas for the language 


rior temporal gyrus and is important to auditory 


modalities. 


comprehension of language. It is in this area that 


auditory stimuli are transformed for comprehension. 


The parietal Lobes.   The parietal lobes are located However, many associations connect auditory input 


between the occipital lobe and the central sulcus. 


with other systems, including memory needed for 


The most anterior part is the postcentral gyrus 


the auditory comprehension of language. Hearing 


where the axons carrying sensory information for 


ability, some visual perceptions, and categorization 


sensation terminate. The parietal lobe receives and 


skills are dependent, in part, on the temporal lobe. 


evaluates most sensory information including touch, 


The left temporal lobe contains Wernicke’s area, 


pressure, pain, temperature, and taste. Sensations 


which is critical to language comprehension. Dam-


from the body are represented at various parts of 


age to the temporal association cortex may lead 


the postcentral gyrus. A person with parietal lobe 


to difficulty identifying and categorizing auditory 


damage may demonstrate the following deficits:


stimuli. The main functions of the temporal lobe 


include hearing ability, memory acquisition, visual 


n  Inability to attend to more than one object 


perceptions, and categorization of objects. Individu-


at a point in time


als who have lesions in this area may demonstrate 


n  Inability to name an object (anomia)


the following deficits:


n  Problems with reading (alexia)


n  Inability to write words (agraphia)


n  Difficulty in recognizing faces 


n  Word blindness (inability to recognize 


(prosopagnosia)


words)


n  Difficulty understanding spoken words 


n  Difficulty with math (dyscalculia)


(Wernicke’s aphasia)


n  Difficulty drawing objects


n  Difficulty in identifying and verbalizing 


n  Difficulty knowing left from right


about objects


n  Lack of awareness of specific body parts


n  Disturbance with selective attention to 


n  Inability to focus visual attention


what is seen and heard


n  Difficulties with eye-hand coordination


n  Short-term memory loss


n  Impaired perception of touch


n  Interference with long-term memory


n  Unilateral neglect


n  Increased or decreased interest in sexual 


n  Inability to manipulate objects


behavior


n  Inability to categorize objects


The occipital Lobes.  The occipital lobes are 


n  Right lobe damage can result in persistent 


located at the posterior part of the brain. It is the 


talking. 


primary target for projections from the thalamus, 


n  Increased aggressive behavior


and it receives sensory information from fibers in 


n  Poor selective attention to what is seen  


the eyes. The retina gets visual input in the form of 


or heard


light flashes, shapes, and shading. This input is then 


transmitted through the optic nerve to the thalamus 


The ability to understand written and spoken 


and then to the primary visual cortex in the occipital 


language occurs primarily in Wernicke’s area, and 


lobe. If the visual cortex is damaged, blindness or a 


the ability to produce speech movement occurs pri-


partial visual field cut can ensue. For example, dam-


marily in the frontal lobe (Broca’s area). These two 


age to the left hemisphere often impairs vision in 


areas communicate with each other constantly via 


the right visual field. A small focal area of damage 


bundles of neurons that are subcortical white mat-


or lesion can lead to a small blind area or scotoma. 


ter pathways known as the arcuate fasciculus and 


Although the neural information is initially mean-


superior longitudinal fasciculus. These pathways 


ingless, the association areas of the cortex transmit 


also pass through gyri at the rim of the Sylvian 


stimuli to other parts of the brain for analysis. The 


  10  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch medial and lateral surfaces of the occipital lobe help 


taste are all under the control of the brainstem. Con-


with such visual associations. This secondary area of 


trol of the trunk and limbs for both sensation and 


the occipital lobe is important to visual processing 


motor control is mediated by the spinal cord (Kelly 


for recognizing objects and visually discriminating. 


& Dodd, 2000). 


Damage to the occipital lobe may include, but 


The medulla actually is an enlargement of the 


are not limited to the following:


top of the spinal cord and occasionally is referred 


to as the bulb. This structure is extremely important 


n  Defects in vision such as visual field cuts


for speech motor control. It contains both ascending 


n  Difficulty locating objects in the 


and descending nerve tracts, as well as the nuclei 


environment


of the cranial nerves controlling phonation, articula-


n  Difficulty recognizing drawn objects


tion, velopharyngeal closure, and swallowing. The 


n  Inability to recognize movement of an 


medulla contains cells of the reticular activating for-


object


mation that is crucial for overall arousal and impor-


n  Difficulty identifying colors


tant for sleep. 


n  Visual illusions or inaccurately seeing 


The pons is located superiorly to the medulla 


objects


and inferior to the midbrain. It contains the nuclei 


n  Word blindness or inability to recognize 


for the trigeminal, abducens, facial, and vestibuloco-


words


chlear nerves. It is the bridge to the cerebellum. The 


n  Difficulties with reading and writing


pons also helps control breathing and sleep, and 


contains part of the reticular activating system, which 


The Insula.   This portion of the cerebrum is some-is important for alertness and arousal functioning. 


times referred to as the fifth lobe. It is not as easily 


The midbrain contains most of the brainstem 


visualized like the other four lobes because it is in 


and connects it to the forebrain. It contains the supe-


underneath the parietal, temporal, and frontal lobes, 


rior colliculus for vision and inferior colliculus for 


deep within the lateral fissure. The insula is consid-


hearing. It also houses the nuclei for the oculomo-


ered a critical area for both sensory and motor func-


tor and trochlear cranial nerves, important for eye 


tions, and has been found to be related to speech 


movement and sensation. The substantia nigra is 


and language skills. The connections and functions 


also housed in the midbrain. The substantia nigra 


of the insula have not been fully described in the 


produces the neurotransmitter dopamine and plays 


literature and await further investigation. 


an important role in the reward center. It is responsi-


ble for controlling sensory processes such as vision 


and movement. A common disorder affecting this 


The Brainstem


region (specifically the substantia nigra) is Parkin-


son’s disease. 


The brainstem consists of the medulla oblongata, 


pons, and the midbrain (Figure 1–9). These struc-


 The 12 Cranial Nerves


tures are also referred to as the mesencephalon. The 


cerebellum may also be considered as part of the 


There are 12 pairs of cranial nerves. With the excep-


brainstem as it is located rostral to the spinal cord. 


tion of cranial nerve I (olfactory) and II (optic), the 


However, it is discussed separately in this text. 


cranial nerves emanate from the brainstem. They 


The brainstem connects the brain to the spinal 


serve functions that are motor (efferent), sensory 


cord and regulates primary life functions such as 


(afferent), or both. Motor nerves send impulses from 


respiration, swallowing, blood pressure, eye move-


the cortex via neural pathways to the spinal cord. 


ments, and heart rate. It also mediates functions 


Once there, they synapse with the cell bodies in the 


such as vomiting, salivation, sneezing, coughing, 


spinal cord. The nerve impulses are then sent to the 


and gagging. Sensations from the skin, joints of the 


targeted muscles, glands, or organs via the periph-


head, face, and neck including hearing, balance, and 


eral nervous system. The motor nerves include the 


  1.  An overvieW oF neuroAnAtoMY & neurophYsioLogY reLAted to Acquired LAnguAge disorders  11


Optic tract


Mamillary body


Interpeduncular fossa


Basis pedunculi of


cerebral peduncle


Oculomotor n. 


Basilar sulcus


Middle cerebellar 


Trigeminal n. 


peduncle


Basal portion


Abducens n. 


of pons


Facial n. 


Vestibulocochlear n. 


Olive


Glossopharynegeal n. 


Pyramid


Vagus n. 


Ventrolateral sulcus


Hypoglossal n. 


Cranial root of accessory n. 


Decussation of 


pyramids


Spinal root of accessory n. 


Ventral root of first cervical n. 


Figure 1–9.  Brainstem. 


oculomotor (III), trochlear, (IV), abducens (VI), spi-


subcortical structures


nal accessory (XI), and the hypoglossal (XII). Sen-


sory nerves receive input from the periphery and 


Subcortical structures are found above the midbrain 


send nerve impulses from the sensory organs to the 


and contain the hypothalamus and thalamus, also 


brain. The sensory portions of the cranial nerves 


referred to as the diencephalon. The thalamus is an 


have their origin outside the brain in ganglia that 


oval structure that acts as the gatekeeper to relay 


divide into two branches: one that extends into the 


sensory input to other areas of the brain. It is located 


postcentral gyrus (the sensory cortex) and one that 


in the center of the forebrain. Most sensory infor-


connects to the sensory organ itself. The sensory 


mation is processed first in the thalamus and then 


nerves include the olfactory (I), optic (II), and the 


is relayed to the cerebral cortex. Thalamic lesions 


vestibulocochlear (VIII). Mixed nerves have more 


may affect contralateral somatic sensations and cre-


than one originating nucleus and include the tri-


ate a lower threshold for pain. The hypothalamus 


geminal nerve (V), the facial nerve (VII), the glosso-


is a small area located ventral to the thalamus with 


pharyngeal (IX), and the vagus nerve (X; Table 1–2). 


widespread connections to the thalamus, reticular 


  12  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Table 1–2.   cranial nerves


i.  olfactory (smell)


ii.  optic (vision)


iii.  oculomotor (eye movement and pupil constriction)


iv.  trochlear (eye movement)


v.  trigeminal (sensations of touch, pain, and temperature from the face and head; chewing and swallowing)


vi.  Abducens (eye movement)


vii.  Facial (taste for anterior 2/3 of tongue, somatosensory information from ear, facial expression, and controls muscles for facial expression)


viii.  Acoustic/vestibulocochlear (hearing and balance)


iX.  glossopharyngeal (taste for posterior half of tongue and somatosensory information from tongue, tonsils, and 


pharynx, and controls some muscles for swallowing)


X.  vagus (sensory, motor, and autonomic visceral functions: heart rate, glands, digestion)


Xi.  (spinal) Accessory (controls muscles used in head movement) Xii.  hypoglossal (controls muscles of tongue)


the following website provides an overview of the cranial nerves with their associated locations: http://faculty.washington.edu/chudler/cranial.html formation, cerebral cortex, limbic system, olfactory 


and storing memories associated with emotional 


bulb, and midbrain. Its many nuclei help regulate 


events. The hippocampus and the amygdala work 


endocrine functions. Damage to one of the hypotha-


as a whole system to regulate motivation and emo-


lamic nuclei often leads to difficulty with feeding, 


tions (Figure 1–10). 


drinking, temperature regulation, sexual behavior, 


sleep, wakefulness, activity level, and/or aggressive 


behavior. The hypothalamus also exerts a major 


The Cerebellum


influence on regulating the body’s hormonal system 


and can impact emotional expression, food intake, 


The cerebellum is inferior to the occipital lobes 


metabolism, and cycles of sleep and wakefulness, 


and posterior to the brainstem. The cerebellum has 


as well. Attached to the base of the hypothalamus 


two hemispheres and is divided into three lobes 


is the pituitary gland. It releases hormones into the 


each. The white matter within the cerebellum con-


bloodstream and to other organs. It is considered 


nects it to other parts of the central nervous sys-


the master gland of the body, controlling secretions 


tem. The gray matter analyzes body movement and 


from the thyroid, adrenal gland, ovaries, and testes. 


compares it with what is needed to accomplish a 


The hippocampus is another subcortical struc-


specific motor task. It is crucial for maintaining 


ture located between the thalamus and cerebral cor-


balance in space and executing coordinated move-


tex, and is important for recent working memory. 


ments. A very critical function of this structure for 


It is also crucial for inhibiting a habitually unsuc-


speech and swallowing is the integration of sensory 


cessful action. The amygdala also plays a role in 


input from regions of the brain, allowing it to coor-


memory. The amygdala’s primary role is in forming 


dinate muscle groups. The cerebellum also modifies 


  1.  An overvieW oF neuroAnAtoMY & neurophYsioLogY reLAted to Acquired LAnguAge disorders  13


cingulate gyrus


corpus


callosum


fornix


pineal


body


olfactory


bulb


optic


chiasm


thalamus


brainstem


amygdala


interthalamic adhesion


pituitary


hypothalamus


hippocampus


Figure 1–10.   subcortical structures of the brain. 


muscle tone, speed, and range of motion, allowing 


neural pathways


movements to be executed smoothly. 


The cerebellum helps to make sequenced motor 


skills automatic. Because the cerebellum is impor-


To the left and right of the thalamus are the basal gan-


tant for motor control, it receives input from muscle 


glia, which include the caudate nucleus, putamen, 


spindles and tendons via the spinal cord. It also gets 


and globus pallidus. These structures are involved in 


input from vision, hearing, touch, and the vestibular 


motor control and integration. They form part of the 


system for balance. A critical distinction between 


extrapyramidal system, which are neural pathways 


the cerebellum and the cortical structures is that 


whose function is the coordination of involuntary 


the cingulate gyrus cerebellum can only control and 


movement. The anatomy of the extrapyramidal sys-


perform online correction of planned movements. It 


tem remains unclear. It primarily connects the cor-


does not initiate motor activity (Figure 1–11). 


tex with the basal ganglia, but it also has indirect 


  14  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Vermis


Posterior


superior fissure


Posterior lobe


Horizontal


fissure


Primary


fissure


Anterior lobe


Hemisphere


Figure 1–11.  cerebellum. 


influence on the lower motor neuron in the spinal 


practice in an acute-care setting will encounter these 


cord. This system is polysynaptic, that is, it makes 


patients. The extrapyramidal system plays a signifi-


many connections through interneurons before its 


cant role in speech production and swallowing func-


impulses reach the spinal cord. These tracts affect 


tion, and every speech and language clinician must 


reflexes, locomotion, posture, and complex move-


be aware of its structure and functions. 


ment. Any degradation of the extrapyramidal system 


The pyramidal system consists of upper motor 


due to stroke or other neurological processes causes 


neurons in the primary motor cortex whose axons 


difficulties with motor control. People with extra-


synapse with the lower motor neurons in the ante-


pyramidal disorders have varied clinical presenta-


rior horn of the spinal cord. The lower motor neuron 


tions. They may have difficulty initiating movement 


axon, also referred to as the final common pathway 


(akinesia) or inability to remain still or motionless 


or the alpha-neuron, begins in the spinal cord, and 


(akathisia). Tardive dyskinesia, commonly seen as a 


extends to the muscles for movement of the arms 


side effect from prolonged use of some psychotro-


and legs. The pyramidal system is a monosynaptic 


pic drugs, is manifested as involuntary and irregular 


system and controls all voluntary movement. It is 


muscle movement. Cerebral palsy of the athetoid 


made up of three nerve tracts: the corticospinal, the 


type is another example of an extrapyramidal dis-


corticobulbar, and the corticopontine. The cortico-


order. Huntington’s chorea and Parkinson’s disease 


spinal tract controls the movements of the limbs and 


are the best-known examples of extrapyramidal dis-


digits. Eighty to ninety percent of corticospinal tract 


orders, and many speech-language pathologists who 


axons cross over to the other side in the medulla. 


  1.  An overvieW oF neuroAnAtoMY & neurophYsioLogY reLAted to Acquired LAnguAge disorders  15


This crossover is referred to as the point of pyrami-


Motor area


dal decussation. Injuries to upper motor neurons in 


Premotor area


the cortex at the point before they enter the pyrami-


Extrapyramidal


dal decussation will lead to spastic paralysis on the 


Subcortical relay station


opposite side of the body. If an injury occurs to the 


pyramidal tract below the point of decussation, or to 


the lower motor neurons in the spinal cord, paralysis 


on the same side of the body will result. The axons 


of the corticobulbar tract synapse with the cranial 


nerves and, therefore, affect the movement of the 


speech musculature. The corticopontine tract con-


nects the nuclei in the pons to the cerebellum. After 


receiving information from sensory input, it is the 


pyramidal system that activates muscles so that vari-


Pyramidal


ous body parts can move as needed (Figure 1–12). 


Medulla


Decussation of pyramids


Cerebral Blood Flow


Lateral corticospinal tract


Extrapyramidal


Anterior carticospinal tract


The brain is only 2% of the average adult body 


weight. However, it receives 15% of the total car-


diac output and uses 25% of the total body glucose. 


It also consumes almost 20% of available oxygen 


within the entire body. 


There are two broad arterial systems: the carotid 


and the vertebrobasilar (Figure 1–13). The carotid 


Lower motor


arterial system has a left and right branch, and divides 


neuron


into the internal and external carotid arteries. The 


internal carotids supply the blood to the anterior 


part of the brain and subdivide into the anterior cere-


bral artery (ACA), middle cerebral artery (MCA), and 


the posterior cerebral artery (PCA). The external 


carotid artery supplies blood to the face, the tongue, 


and parts of the head. 


The Circle of Willis is a critical structure because 


it allows blood to flow through both hemispheres 


of the brain and acts as a safety valve if blood flow 


on one side of the brain is blocked. Because of its 


Figure 1–12.   extrapyramidal and pyramidal 


construction, if blood flow is blocked on the left, 


systems. 


blood from the right can reach the unnourished area 


(Love & Webb, 1992). Branching off from the Circle 


of Willis are two arterial systems that supply the 


forebrain and cortical areas pertinent to speech and 


The ACA supplies blood to the medial surfaces 


language production: the ACA and the MCA. The 


of the frontal and parietal cortex. The most of the lat-


posterior cortex, the midbrain, and the brainstem 


eral cortex of both cerebral hemispheres, including 


are all supplied by the PCA, the basilar artery, and 


portions of the temporal lobes and frontal lobes. It 


the vertebral artery. 


provides blood flow to both Broca’s and Wernicke’s 


  16  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Anterior


cerebral artery


Middle


cerebral artery


Basilar artery


Posterior


cerebral artery


Anterior


Internal


spinal artery


carotid artery


External


Vertebral artery


carotid artery


Common


carotid artery


Aortic arch


Subclavian artery


Figure 1–13.   cerebral blood flow. 


areas. It also has smaller branches that supply blood 


of the brain, including the brainstem. As the brain 


to the basal ganglia and internal capsule. The pos-


is not able to store oxygen or glucose, any inter-


terior cerebral history supplies medial and inferior 


ruption of blood flow affects its ability to function 


surfaces of occipital and temporal lobes. The verte-


properly. The cerebral arteries supply oxygen and 


brobasilar arterial system supplies the occipital lobes, 


blood to parts of the brain. The cerebral arteries 


medial aspects of the temporal lobes, and brainstem. 


arise from the internal carotid and vertebral arteries. 


At the base of the brain, the arteries form the Circle 


of Willis. It is there that branches of the internal 


Cerebrovascular Accidents


carotid arteries and branches of the basilar arteries 


communicate. The MCA is the largest of the cerebral 


Cerebrovascular accident (CVA), commonly known 


arteries (compared with the ACA and the PCA). The 


as stroke, refers to a lack of blood flow to any area 


MCA is most often related to a CVA as it supplies 


  1.  An overvieW oF neuroAnAtoMY & neurophYsioLogY reLAted to Acquired LAnguAge disorders  17


blood and oxygen to most of the outer surface of the 


strokes are due to the rupture of a congenital berry 


brain, the basal ganglia, and anterior and posterior 


aneurysm. In the United States, approximately one-


internal capsules (Slater, 2006). Cerebral infarcts that 


fourth of people who suffer a stroke will die. About 


disrupt blood flow and oxygen to the brain may 


one-half will live with long-term disabilities, and 


arise from hemorrhagic or ischemic events in any 


another one fourth will recover most all functions 


of the arteries. 


(National Institutes of Health, 2008) (Figure 1–14A). 


In the United States, there are 700,000 strokes 


annually. It is the third leading cause of death in the 


 Ischemic Events


country and the leading cause of long-term disabil-


ity (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and 


There are two types of ischemic stroke, thrombotic 


Stroke, 2008). Both the ischemic and hemorrhagic 


and embolic. The thrombotic type is due to a blood 


types of stroke are considered cerebral vascular 


clot that forms in a vessel and remains there. Fat 


accidents and can cause aphasia. There are approx-


and blood from the diseased artery block the vessel 


imately 100,000 cases of aphasia annually in the 


going to the brain, and the artery narrows at the 


United States due to stroke alone (Helm-Estabrooks 


site of the thrombosis. The embolic type is caused 


& Albert, 2004). 


by a blood clot that travels from the site where it 


was formed to a cerebral artery. The detached mass 


 Hemorrhagic Events


within the blood vessel is carried along with the 


blood flow, preventing nutrients such as oxygen 


The hemorrhagic stroke typifies approximately 20% 


and glucose from nourishing the cortical tissue. 


of all strokes. However, the mortality rate of hem-


Approximately 80% of all strokes are of this type 


orrhagic strokes is 50% in the United States. These 


(National Institute of Neurological Disorders and 


strokes can be due to massive edema, brain hernia-


Stroke, 2008). Lacunar infarcts are a type of ischemic 


tion, or the use of illicit drugs, especially cocaine. 


stroke. This results from constriction of the small 


Other etiologies include aneurysm, clotting defi-


vessels that penetrate the brain, usually caused by 


ciencies, leukemia, brain tumors, and occasionally 


hypertension. Finally, lacunar disease also can be 


traumatic brain injury. A majority of hemorrhagic 


caused by transient ischemic attacks (TIA), which 


Rupture


Embolus


Artery


Artery


A


B


Figure 1–14.   A.  hemorrhagic event. B. ischemic event. 


  18  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch are brief events, lasting less than 24 hours. They 


hemianopsia, which is commonly expressed in ipsi-


typically last only 2 to 15 minutes without evidence 


lateral head or eye deviation. Contralateral hemiple-


of brain damage (Figure 1–14B). 


gia concerning the face, arm, and to a less significant 


extent, the leg, is also noted. Typically, the blockage is embolic although thrombotic blockage is frequently 


 Potential Sequelae to ACA Stroke


seen in the carotid (DeFelice, 2005; Slater, 2006). 


Damage to the MCA (Figure 1–16) may result in:


From the internal carotid artery, the ACA extends 


both forward and upward. It supplies blood to the 


n  Aphasic syndromes


frontal lobes. This part of the brain impacts per-


n  Motor speech disorders


sonality, logical thought, and voluntary movement, 


n  Visual field cuts


particularly in the legs. Damage to this area due 


n  Contralateral paresis or paralysis


to stroke may result in weakness of the opposite 


leg; however, damage to both anterior cerebral ter-


ritories may produce an akinetic form of mutism 


 Potential Sequelae to PCA Stroke


(DeFelice, 2005; Stroke Center at Washington Uni-


The PCA provides blood to the occipital lobe and 


versity, 2008). 


the inferior section of the temporal lobe, originating 


Damage to the ACA (Figure 1–15) may result in:


from the basilar artery. When this area is damaged, 


problems with vision, memory, smell, and emotion 


n Confusion


may arise in conjunction with functions associated 


n  Loss of coordination


with the midbrain and thalamus (DeFelice, 2005). 


n  Impaired sensory functions


Damage to the PCA (Figure 1–17) may result in:


n  Personality changes


n  Contralateral paresis or paralysis


n  Visual field cut


n  Sensory impairment


 Potential Sequelae to MCA Stroke


n Alexia


n  Cortical blindness


The MCA provides blood to much of the temporal 


n  Color blindness


lobe, anterolateral frontal lobe, and parietal lobe. 


n  Locked-in syndrome


Damage to this area may result in a homonymous 


n Agnosia


Figure 1–15.   AcA (for anterior cerebral artery). 


Figure 1–16.   McA (for middle cerebral artery). 


  1.  An overvieW oF neuroAnAtoMY & neurophYsioLogY reLAted to Acquired LAnguAge disorders  19


during a task does not necessarily indicate that it is 


the area responsible for processing that task. It may 


actually be a residual language region activated to 


perform the task secondary to the lesion. In addi-


tion, scanning after treatment and substantial recov-


ery does not necessarily indicate the mechanisms 


underlying that recovery. The authors suggest that 


the patient is scanned in the early, middle, and late 


stages of recovery. This more refined methodology 


may be more accurate for delineating the actual area 


of function by documenting the changes over time. 


Finally, the authors state that one must consider the 


nature of the task and level of task difficulty because 


Figure 1–17.   pcA (for posterior cerebral artery). 


these two factors can confound the analysis of imag-


ing results. 


In addition to imaging studies, the major cere-


bral arteries and blood flow may be tested via 


Brain Imaging and selected 


Doppler ultrasound, carotid phonoangiography, 


Medical Tests for Acquired 


endocardiography, or angiography. Several brain-


Language disorders


imaging studies are outlined below. 


The medical diagnosis of stroke includes imaging 


CAT scan or CT scan


studies, that is, tests that provide static or dynamic 


images of the damaged areas of the brain to sup-


n  This test takes 10 to 20 minutes to 


plement the clinical findings. Some of these tests 


conduct. 


image blood flow and metabolic activity, and some 


n  A three-dimensional picture is created 


image structure. Some use radioactive materials 


from different angles in slices, linked to 


and some do not. The most frequently used imag-


x-rays to detect hemorrhages, lesions, and 


ing studies used in the diagnosis of stroke include: 


tumors. 


computerized axial tomography (CAT or CT) scan, 


n  Must be done to detect if a stroke is 


magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), functional mag-


hemorrhagic or ischemic (important to 


netic resonance imaging (fMRI), positron emission 


know prior to giving tissue plasminogen 


tomography (PET) and single photon emission com-


activator or tPA). 


puterized tomography (SPECT) scan, and the latest 


n  This is not a good test for soft tissue lesions. 


technique, called arterial spin labeling (ASL; Detre, 


n  This is a good test for pinpointing the site 


Wong, Wang, & Rao, 2009). 


of the lesion


The traditional use of imaging in aphasia and 


acquired language disorders has primarily focused 


on identifying the lesion site for diagnostic purposes, 


MrI


and less for therapeutic interventions. Ramage, 


Kiran, and Robin (2008) discuss the role of imaging 


n  Testing time is typically 30 to 45 minutes. 


in treatment and treatment planning for people with 


n  A magnetic field is used to show fine 


aphasia. They report some potential problems with 


details in the brain and spinal cord. 


using imaging for identifying neural regions acti-


n  MRI shows:


vated during the scanning of a patient engaged in a 


n  soft tissues


language task. For instance, a region that is activated 


n  large blood vessels


  20  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch n  location and size of arteriovenous 


n  This test assesses cerebral metabolism of 


malformations


glucose and oxygen. 


n tumors


n  It typically is not done as an inpatient 


n  blood clots


procedure due to its high expense. 


n  ischemic stroke


n  SPECT is more commonly used for 


research purposes. 


fMrI


AsL (Arterial spin Labeling)


n  fMRI is a nonradioactive, noninvasive 


procedure that shows the use of glucose 


n  This test is used with structural MRI, not 


and oxygen feeding areas of the working 


fMRI. 


brain. 


n  The blood that is proximal to the tissue of 


n  Movement of the patient during the 


interest is magnetically labeled, and the 


procedure can adversely affect readings. 


patient is then scanned with traditional 


n  fMRI can be used:


MRI technology. 


n  to map critical areas in patients prior to 


n  This is most useful for imaging the neural 


brain surgery


correlates of functional behavior, including 


n  to directly measure blood flow 


speech and language. 


indicating functional brain activity


n  to investigate the role of specific brain 


regions in human activity


examination of the Carotids: 


doppler Ultrasound or 


peT scan


Auscultation of the Carotids


This test is radioactive and provides imaging of met-


n  Doppler examination of the carotids 


abolic activity in the brain:


uses an ultrasound technique with high 


frequency sound waves. 


n  The radioactive markers assess the brain’s 


n  This is a noninvasive procedure that 


metabolism for oxygen and glucose and 


examines the blood flow in the major 


blood flow. 


arteries and veins of the neck and  


n  This test reveals how the brain is using 


brain. 


blood flow to function. 


n  This examination detects bruits that are 


n  This test is expensive and not done 


turbulent sounds within an artery and 


routinely as a diagnostic tool but more 


indicates extracranial carotid occlusive 


often for research purposes in clinical 


disease. 


settings. 


n  Audio measurements hear the blood flow 


and produce a visual image of the carotid 


arteries. 


speCT scan


n  This procedure is used in patients with 


vascular disease to identify partial or 


n  This test evaluates the amount of blood 


complete occlusion of a vessel. 


flowing through the brain’s regions. 


n  Auscultation with a stethoscope also 


n  It can identify areas of reduced or absent 


provides evidence of carotid artery disease 


blood flow (known as regional cerebral 


through the detection of the turbulent 


blood flow or rCBF). 


sounds associated with bruits. 


  1.  An overvieW oF neuroAnAtoMY & neurophYsioLogY reLAted to Acquired LAnguAge disorders  21


endocardiography


references


n  This procedure uses ultrasound to take 


Bhatnagar, S. C. (2002).  Neuroscience for the study of images of the heart and can detect blood 


 communicative disorders (2nd ed.). Philadelphia, 


clots that have the potential to travel to the 


PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. 


brain. 


DeFelice, E. A. (2005).  Prevention of cardiovascular 


n  Endocardiography can detect:


 disease: Atherosclerosis, carotid artery disease, cere-n  a hole in the atrium of the heart


 bral artery disease/stroke, coronary artery disease  


n  an infected valve of the heart


 peripheral artery disease and hypertension.  Lincoln, n  an enlarged heart that is a risk factor for 


NE: iUniverse. 


stroke (often due to chronic 


Detre, J. A., Wong, J., Wang, Z., & Rao, H. (2009). Arterial hypertension)


spin-labeled perfusion MRI in basic and clinical neu-


roscience.  Current Opinion in Neurology,  22, 348–355. 


Helm-Estabrooks, N., & Albert, M. L. (2004).  Manual of aphasia and aphasia therapy (2nd ed.). Austin, Angiography


TX: Pro-Ed. 


Kelly, J. P., & Dodd, J. (2000). Anatomical organiza-


tion of the nervous system. In E. R. Kandel, J. H. 


n  CT Type


Schwartz, & T. M. Jessell (Eds.),  Principles of neural n  A trace element is injected intravenously 


 science (4th ed.). Columbus, OH: McGraw-Hill. 


with contrast dye to detect blood flow. 


Love, R. J., & Webb, W. G. (1992).  Neurology for the n  Ischemic areas or a subarachnoid 


 speech-language pathologist (2nd ed.). Stoneham, 


aneurysm can be detected. 


MA: Butterworth-Heinemann. 


n  This test delineates areas where there is 


National Institute of Neurological Disorders and 


a deprivation of blood flow. 


Stroke. (2008).  What you need to know about stroke.  


n  MR Type (also known as MRA)


Retrieved from http://www.ninds.nih.gov/disor 


n  This test is similar to an MRI but is 


ders/ stroke/stroke_needtoknow.htm


conducted with contrast dye that  


National Institutes of Health. (2008).  Medline plus 


is injected to depict blood flow to  


 outlook on stroke.  Retrieved from http://www.nlm 


.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/000.htm#Expec 


the brain. 


ta tions%20(prognosis)


n  Cerebral Angiography


Ramage, A. E., Kiran, S., & Robin, D. A. (2008). Has imag-n  This is an invasive test using dye that is 


ing advanced the science in aphasiology? A critical 


injected intravenously into an artery. 


review of neuroimaging research in acquired adult 


n  A catheter is surgically inserted into a 


language disorders. In R. Ingham (Ed.),  Neuroimag-


blood vessel around the groin, which is  


 ing in communication sciences and disorders (pp. 


guided through the circulatory system to 


155–193). San Diego, CA: Plural Publishing. 


an artery leading to the brain. 


Schwartz, J. H. (1991). Chemical messengers: Small mol-


n  X-rays are taken to track blood flow. 


ecules and peptides. In E. R. Kandel, J. H. Schwartz, 


n  Abnormalities that can cause stroke 


& T. M. Jessell (Eds.),  Principles of neural science (aneurysm, narrowing vessels, 


(4th ed.). Norwalk, CT: Appleton and Lange. 


embolus, atherosclerosis, arteriovenous 


Slater, D. I. (2006).  Middle cerebral artery stroke.  


Retrieved from http://www.emedicine.com/pmr/


malformations, etc.) can be detected. 


TOPIC77.htm


n  There is a risk to this procedure. If a 


Stroke Center at Washington University. (2008).  Blood clot is present in the artery prior to the  


 vessels of the brain.  Retrieved from http://www 


procedure, introducing the catheter into 


.strokecenter.org/education/ais_vessels/ais049a .html


the artery can dislodge the clot, thereby 


Webb, W., & Adler, R. K. (2008).  Neurology for the increasing the probability of an embolic 


 speech-language pathologist (5th ed.). St. Louis, MO: stroke. 


Mosby-Elsevier. 






 Chapter 2


AssessMenT And servICe 


deLIvery In ACqUIred 


LAngUAge dIsorders


Approaches to Assessment in 


aphasia. Spreen and  Risser (2003) suggest that “the 


Acquired Language disorders


clinically oriented examiner tends to shy away from 


psycholinguistic evaluations and uses relatively more 


concrete standard testing methods” (p. 21). In our 


Past work has discussed two general approaches 


view, assessment seems to be predominately clinical-


to assessment of the person presenting with an 


neuroanatomical in speech-language pathology with 


acquired language disorder, the clinical-anatomical 


a focus on identifying the type of aphasia. There are 


and the psycholinguistic (Spreen & Risser, 2003). 


several reasons for this. First, we can talk to clinicians According to the authors, the clinical-neuroanatom-and other members of the patient’s team and give 


ical approach is based on the observable clinical 


a clear and mutually understandable snapshot of 


data, as well as imaging data, regarding site of lesion 


the patient’s communication status. Second, we can 


and substrates presumed to underlie the type of 


counsel and educate the caregivers and any other 


aphasia. The psycholinguistic approach relied on 


stakeholders about the patient’s case more efficiently 


theoretical concepts of normal language processing. 


than if we took a psycholinguistic approach to assess-


In the 19th century, aphasiology was dominated 


ment. However, the findings from the assessment can 


and defined by the work of physicians whose primary 


certainly be applied with a psycholinguistic mind-


goal was to determine the site of lesion. Out of this 


set to planning treatment. In fact, the Verb Network 


work grew the clinical-neuroanatomical methods for 


Strengthening Treatment (VNeST) (Edmonds, 2016) 


assessment. The first psycholinguistic examination 


is an example. Therefore, we support the use of both 


of people with aphasia was conducted by Chajim 


frameworks when working with individuals who 


Steinthal in the late 1800s. He is considered the first 


present with an acquired language disorder. 


neurolinguist. He described language as a psychic 


mechanism that connects images and the rules of 


language. In his view, the images are subjects and 


purpose of Assessment


predicates. The rules are connected to those images  


to form sentences. Steinthal considered aphasia to be 


a disconnection between the images and the ability to 


The purpose of assessment in patients with acquired 


use the rules of language. For example, he reported that 


language disorders is:


some patients may have the rules of language intact, 


but without specific content, producing empty speech, 


n  To determine if the patient has an 


a common feature of a person with a Wernicke’s 


acquired language disorder





23


  24  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch n  To classify aphasic symptomatology


n  Conversational discourse


n  To determine the level of severity


n  Auditory comprehension


n  To develop a plan of treatment based on 


n  Naming skills


the results of the evaluation, observation, 


n  Repetition skills


and information obtained during the 


n Reading


family/patient interview


n Writings


n  To provide a functional prognosis


n  To establish a baseline against which 


In addition to the case history and speech and 


to measure progress over the course of 


language findings, the clinician needs to be alert to 


therapy. 


more global elements of the patient’s condition and 


integrate that information into the clinical picture of 


Whether a bedside evaluation or a formal test bat-


the patient. These include:


tery is to be used, it is important to show the patient 


and his or her family members that you are a profes-


n Behavior


sional who is invested in the patient’s progress. The 


n  Initiating communication


SLP obtains important information about the patient 


n  Problem solving


and family during the initial interview process, which 


n Judgment


informs the development of a functional and mean-


n  Inhibition of behavior


ingful treatment plan. A case history is obtained 


n  Thought organization


from the medical chart or during the interview and 


n Self-monitoring


typically includes the following information:


n  General appearance


n  Gait and posture


n  Chief complaints and admitting diagnosis


n  Muscle wasting


n  Past medical history (PMH)


n  Physical symmetry


n  Past surgical history


n  Involuntary movements (shaking, 


n  Family history


twitching, tremors)


n  Psychosocial history


n  Noted impairment in cranial nerve functions


n  Work and educational history


Speech-language pathologists typically assess and 


Throughout the therapeutic course, the SLP gauges 


report on cranial nerves CN V (trigeminal), CN VII 


the patient’s progress based upon further testing 


(facial), CN IX (glossopharyngeal), CN X (vagus), 


and observation and comparing the results to the 


and CN XII (hypoglossal). The following link pro-


patient’s previous performance. 


vides a tutorial from the Merck Manual. https://


If the clinician sees the patient in an inpatient 


www.merckmanuals.com/professional/neurologic-


setting, it is always best practice to contact fam-


disorders/neurologic-examination/how-to-assess-


ily members or caregivers to confirm the informa-


the-cranial-nerves


tion that the patient provided as well as to obtain 


another perspective on the patient and his or her 


n  Presence of primitive reflexes noted 


history. Information about the patient’s communi-


during oral examination


cation style and communicative needs in the home 


n  Visual abnormalities


environment should be obtained. It is said that the 


n Hemianopsia


eyes and ears of a clinician are sometimes the best 


n  Visual neglect


diagnostic tools available. Consequently, informal 


n  Visual inattention


observational findings supplement and complement 


n  Visual perceptual impairment


the formal diagnostic testing. Using both informal 


n  Visual agnosia


and formal methods of assessment further help the 


SLP in the development of a proper plan of treat-


This information can be obtained from the medi-


ment. Areas of speech and language to evaluate are:


cal chart, specifically in the nursing notes and the 


 


2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  25


consults from other services in the hospital who 


difficulty can be observed in patients with nam-


are also involved in the patient’s care. For a com-


ing problems. 


prehensive overview of the characteristics of the 


6.  The sixth area of assessment is  syntactic struc-


acquired language disorders covered in this book, 


 ture.  Agrammatism, which is typical for more 


see Appendix 2–B. 


anterior lesions, is characterized by fragmented, 


incomplete use of sentences and includes omis-


sions and substitutions of inflections and func-


Assessment of Language Functions


tion words (prepositions, articles, conjunctions, 


etc.). Speech may sound telegraphic. Paragram-


Six major areas of language functioning are gener-


matism indicates a reduced syntactic complexity 


ally considered when assessing aphasia. These areas 


with substitution of function words and inflec-


are noted below, as well as the most common lesion 


tions. This tends to coincide with paraphasic 


sites producing the aphasic symptoms. 


errors often seen in fluent types of aphasia and 


is consistent with more posterior lesions. 


1.  The first area is the patient’s  speech fluency.  Fluency involves the length of the utterance that 


an individual expresses in connected words. 


Characteristics of Aphasia


Fluent speech generally includes phrases and 


sentences that are at least four words in length. 


Fluent aphasias involve a more posterior lesion 


The incidence of aphasia after stroke ranges between 


(around the temporoparietal junction) in the 


0.02% and 0.06% with a prevalence from 0.1% to 


cerebral cortex, whereas nonfluent aphasias 


0.4% (Code & Petheram, 2011). In a meta-analysis 


generally result from a more anterior lesion 


of 39 randomized controlled trials with 2,518 par-


(around the posterior inferior frontal gyrus) in 


ticipants (Brady, Kelly, Godwin, & Enderby, 2012) 


the brain. 


there appears to be no evidence that one impair-


2.  The second area of assessment involves  compre-


ment-based treatment is better than another when 


 hension of language.  Patients with more poste-


it comes to improving functional communication. 


rior lesions typically have more comprehension 


However, it is known that intensive speech and 


difficulties than those with anterior lesions. 


language treatments across types of aphasia tend 


Comprehension is a broad term and can involve 


to produce better results than low-frequency treat-


understanding words, phrases, sentences, para-


ments (Brady et al., 2012). If rapid reperfusion with 


graphs, stories, and conversation. 


recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rTPA) is 


3.  The third area of assessment involves the abil-


administered within 4.5 hours of stroke onset, com-


ity to use  automatic speech.  Automatic speech 


munication impairments can be minimized, which 


refers to commonly used sequences of language. 


further enhances the patient’s communication prog-


For example, days of the week and months of 


nosis (Zumbansen & Thiel, 2014). 


the year are considered automatic. This type of 


Each of the major types of aphasia have both 


language tends to be easier to produce as it 


shared and unique characteristics. In reality, very 


becomes rote over time. 


few of them are pure, and people with aphasia often 


4.  The fourth area of assessment is  repetition  or have overlapping features. The primary characteris-imitative speech.  The ability to repeat what 


tics (Figure 2–1) are used to assist in the differen-


one hears is a diagnostic feature. Individuals 


tial diagnosis of the syndromes. In our discussion, 


with certain types of aphasia (such as conduc-


we assume that the left hemisphere is dominant for 


tion aphasia) have difficulty with repetition of 


speech and language functions. 


speech. 


Just as the types of aphasia commonly seen 


5.  The fifth area of assessment is  naming.  Strug-in the clinical setting have both shared and unique 


gle, circumlocutions, recurrent utterances,  characteristics, each type can have more than one paraphasias, jargon, and confrontation naming 


name. For example, Broca’s aphasia is also known 





Figure 2–1.   overview of classification of aphasia syndromes (helm-estabrooks, Albert, & nicholas, 2014). reprinted with permission. 


26


 


2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  27


as an  anterior aphasia, motor aphasia, nonfluent 


level. This can also be referred to as  lexical retrieval aphasia,  and sometimes , expressive aphasia. Wer-or  word finding. 


nicke’s aphasia is sometimes referred to as a  pos-


 terior aphasia, fluent aphasia, sensory aphasia,  or syntax.  Syntactic ability involves organization of receptive aphasia.  The interchangeability of these words and sentences into a logical structure based 


terms reflects the culture of the medical setting and 


on the rules of syntax for a particular language. 


not a nosological difference. 


 Agrammatism   occurs in individuals with nonflu-


The types of aphasia are generally due to dif-


ent aphasia and is characterized by the absence 


ferent cortical lesions. However, it is also possible to 


of function words, thereby creating sentences that 


see aphasia secondary to some subcortical lesions. 


include primarily nouns and verbs. The speech is 


There are two major types of subcortical aphasia. 


telegraphic, and there can be omissions of grammat-


One is due to a lesion in the basal ganglia and adja-


ical morphemes.  Paragrammatism  occurs in fluent 


cent regions of the internal capsule. The other is 


aphasia and is characterized by inaccurate syntactic 


due to a lesion in the left thalamus. These are dis-


rule application, for example, subject-verb agree-


cussed in detail in the chapter on subcortical apha-


ment or incorrect tense markers, and inappropriate 


sia (Chapter 5). 


use of pronouns. 


perseveration.  Perseveration is defined as the 


definitions of the Clinical 


inappropriate or uncontrolled repetition of a previ-


Characteristics of the 


ous response (including a sound or phoneme, mor-


Major Aphasias


pheme, syntactic structure, semantic feature, or an 


idea) that continues after the task requirements have 


Fluency.  Fluency refers to the ability to produce changed and the response is no longer needed. It 


an uninterrupted, phrase-length utterance, typically 


isn’t possible to predict when perseverations will 


more than four words in length. 


occur (Stark, 2011). There are three primary types 


of perseveration:  stuck-in-set (clonic),  continuous prosody.   Prosody involves the ability to vary into-


(tonic), and  recurrent  (intentional) (Sandson & nation patterns, stress, and rhythm in connected 


Albert, 1984). Table 2–1 provides a definition and 


speech. 


an example of each of these types of perseveration. 


 Ideational perseveration  also may be observed 


Auditory Comprehension.  Auditory compre-


in some patients. In this type, the patient perse-


hension involves the ability to listen to and process 


verates on a concept or idea despite a topic shift 


information presented verbally. This ranges in levels 


or change in communicative context. For example, 


from the ability to comprehend at the word level to 


continuing to talk about the breakfast meal, even 


the conversational level. 


though the topic has switched to daily activities that 


Automatic speech.  Automatic speech involves 


occur after eating breakfast. Studies indicate that 


the ability to produce rote sequences such as count-


63% to 87% of individuals with aphasia have some 


ing, naming the days of the week, the months of the 


degree of perseveration. Many people with aphasia 


year, and so forth. 


have recurrent perseveration. There appears to be 


no difference in the rates of perseveration between 


verbal repetition.   Verbal repetition requires the fluent and nonfluent patients with aphasia (Helm-ability to repeat what the examiner said. This skill 


Estabrooks & Albert, 2004). 


is initially assessed from the monosyllabic level to 


One must also be attentive during diagnostic 


sentence imitation. 


testing because some errors that appear persevera-


tive may actually be showing the therapist that the 


word recall.  Word recall refers to the ability to patient may have understood the task. For example, 


name objects and pictures during structured con-


the patient may point to his head then his toe in 


frontation naming as well as at the conversational 


response to your directive to point to the ceiling 


  28  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Table 2–1.   primary types of perseveration


Type


definition


example


stuck-in-set perseveration


inappropriate maintenance of a 


Working on naming within a food 


Lesion:  More frontal


category or framework after a 


category. When the task is changed to 


new task is introduced and a new 


clothing, the patient continues to assign 


response expected. 


food names to the items of clothing. 


continuous perseveration


inappropriate prolongation of a 


erasing an incorrect response as 


Lesion:  right hemispheric, 


behavior that should stop; inability 


directed, but continuing until the paper 


subcortical, and cortical 


to inhibit the continuation of the 


is torn. 


aphasias


response. 


recurrent perseveration


inappropriate recurrence of a 


there can be a carryover of whole words 


Lesion:  Left temporal and 


previous response after a new 


(perseverates on  slipper for all stimuli 


parietal region


stimulus is given and a new 


in the semantic category of “footwear”); 


response expected. 


or carryover of phonemic structure 


(perseverates on /k/ in initial position 


for all words subsequent to the first 


presentation of /k/). 


then the floor. However, earlier, you were asking 


n  Tasks that require the patient to respond 


him to point to body parts. In this case, the patient 


more rapidly between trials will increase 


understood the directionality of the directive, but 


perseveration. 


perseverated on body parts. 


n  Tasks that require the use of lexical items 


Clinical observations of patients with perse-


that occur less frequently in the language 


verative behavior have shown that certain tasks or 


will increase perseveration. For example, 


contexts will increase the likelihood of its occur-


this may include asking the patient to 


rence. This is a very important fact for a treating 


name geometric shapes such as hexagon, 


therapist to understand because the reduction and/


rectangle, and octagon. 


or elimination of perseveration is a crucial factor for 


n  Tasks that use words that are close in 


successful functional communication. 


semantic and/or phonemic properties 


The following tasks are likely to increase per-


can cause increased perseveration. For 


severation:


example, requiring a patient to name 


the following pictures:  dog, doctor, 


n  Tasks that involve nonautomatic speech 


 door, cat, nurse, window  may present 


will increase perseveration. For example, 


a challenge. The semantic proximity of 


naming tasks will increase perseveration 


the words  doctor  and  nurse,  and  cat versus counting to 10 or reciting the days 


and  dog; the phonemic proximity of the 


of the week. 


words,  door, doctor, dog  can also increase 


n  Tasks that involve naming items, pictures, 


perseveration. Consequently, the word 


or objects that are in similar semantic 


 window  may not be produced successfully. 


fields will increase perseveration. For 


example, having a patient name fruits and 


Perseveration tends to occur at all linguistic 


then switch the task to naming vegetables 


levels (phonemes, morphemes, words, syntactic 


will increase the likelihood that they 


forms in sentences, semantically related words, and 


will continue to name fruits (recurrent 


at the text level with ideas). Individuals with apha-


perseveration). 


sia can present with recurring utterances, automatic 


 


2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  29


speech, stereotypies (including verbal stereotypies), 


paraphasia. Aphasic speech can be characterized 


echolalia, palilalia, or logorrhea. Stark (2007) found 


by paraphasic errors, although not all patients dem-


that perseveration in people with Broca’s aphasia 


onstrate this particular characteristic. These errors 


tended to be of shorter duration and less complex 


reflect a disruption at the lexical level, for semantic 


than those with Wernicke’s type aphasia. Also, those 


paraphasias, or the phonological level, for the pho-


with Broca’s type aphasia and apraxia of speech 


nemic paraphasias. For more information see Kohn 


perseverated on phonemes and attempted to cor-


(1989, 1993) and Caplan (1987). There are three 


rect their perseverative errors. Individuals with more 


general types of paraphasias: phonemic, semantic, 


severe global aphasia appeared unaware of their 


and neologistic (often referred to as a  neologism). 


perseverations. 


A  phonemic paraphasia  is characterized by a similar It is possible to decrease perseveration, although 


word substitution, where at least 50% of the word 


it can be quite intractable. Helm-Estabrooks, Emery, 


overlaps phonologically with the intended word. 


and Albert (1987) developed the Treatment of Apha-


Examples include saying “octagon” for “octopus,” or 


sic Perseveration (TAP) program. In this program, 


“ship” for “shirt.” Phonemic paraphasias may also 


the therapist writes the word that the patient is 


take the phonological shape of a nonword, for exam-


repeating on a piece of paper. One technique is 


ple, “ocoput” for “octopus.” This is referred to as a 


to cross out the word in an attempt to extinguish 


 non-word phonemic paraphasia. Phonemic para-


the perseveration, while the patient watches. The 


phasias are also called  literal paraphasias.  A  seman-therapist tells that patient that he or she no longer 


 tic paraphasia  is a verbal paraphasia related to the needs to say this word. Other techniques to control 


target word, for example, “jellyfish” for “octopus.” 


or reduce perseveration include:


This is referred to as a  related semantic paraphasia 


because it is in the same class as the intended word. 


n  Establish new rules for new tasks: 


The  unrelated semantic paraphasia  is a real word, 


“Now we are going to stop talking about 


but not in the same class, for example, “chicken” for 


animals. We will now talk about clothing.” 


“octopus.” Semantic paraphasias are also known as 


n  Give the patient a break by using a 


 verbal paraphasias. A neologism is not a real word distracting comment: “Do you think it will 


phonologically or semantically, for example, the 


rain today?” 


neologism “ertig” may be said for “octopus.” Notice, 


n  Raise the patient’s level of awareness 


however, that the neologism follows the phonologi-


about his or her perseveration: “You are 


cal rules of English, yet it is not a real word. Fig-


repeating the same word over again, John. 


ure 2–2 maps the relationships of the three primary 


Do you hear yourself?” 


types of paraphasias. 


n  Do not allow the patient to see any written 


work that he or she has done earlier in 


error recognition. This involves the ability to 


the session, which can be a perseverative 


recognize a phonemic (literal), semantic (verbal), or 


stimulus. 


neologistic self-generated error. For individuals with 


Semantic


Phonemic


Neologistic


Related


Unrelated


Real word


Nonword


Nonword


jellyfish / octopus


chicken / octopus


octagon / octopus


ocoput / octopus


ertig / octopus


Figure 2–2.   A mapping of the relationships of the three primary types of paraphasias. 


  30  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch error recognition problems, they are not aware that 


indicated that it is faulty to assume that cognition 


their speech contains the wrong sound, the wrong 


is not affected by a stroke that has produced apha-


word, or a nonword. 


sia. Furthermore, they believed that aphasia may 


not be “an isolated language disorder.” In the case 


 Extralinguistic and Paralinguistic 


of stroke, Helm-Estabrooks, Bayles, Ramage, and 


 Considerations in Assessment


Bryant (1995) found that the level of severity of 


the aphasia is not significantly correlated with the 


Assessment of right hemisphere disorders (RHD) 


severity of nonverbal cognitive skills. This suggests 


typically involves tasks that are important for 


that cognitive impairment and language impairment 


functional communication but not specific to the 


after stroke are unique entities that influence one 


basic language systems (phonology, syntax, and 


another. Just as attention impacts memory because 


semantics). The right hemisphere is more involved 


a person must attend in order to remember infor-


with extralinguistic and paralinguistic aspects of 


mation, so do memory skills impact language. The 


communication. According to Brookshire (2003), 


general principle is that the cognitive functions 


when there is right hemisphere impairment, spe-


listed above interact and influence reading, writ-


cific deficits typically involve the following primary 


ing, listening, and speaking, depending on the task. 


categories: (1) attention, (2) perception, (3) affect, 


In normal-functioning individuals, it is difficult to 


(4) communication, and (5) cognition. Within these 


imagine a person holding a meaningful conversation 


areas, patients with RHD may experience visual 


without the ability to attend and use information 


neglect, difficulty recognizing faces, impulsivity, 


stored in memory. We suggest that clinicians screen 


denial of deficits, lack of motivation, difficulty rec-


these areas of cognitive ability using nonverbal mea-


ognizing emotions, impaired comprehension and 


sures such as the Cognitive Linguistic Quick Test 


word retrieval, difficulty with pragmatics, impaired 


Plus (CLQT+; Helm-Estabrooks, 2017) or the Cogni-


prosody of speech, disorientation, memory diffi-


tive Linguistic Evaluation (Appendix C). 


culties, and poor information integration, to name 


Without a cognitive screening and/or evalua-


several. The speech-language pathologist must be 


tion, the clinician may miss vital details to support 


aware of these potential deficits when conducting 


the patient’s success, and the  CLQT-+ (Helm-Esta-


an evaluation, whether formal or informal in nature. 


brooks, 2017) is a measure that can provide some 


information about cognitive functioning. Consider 


the task of trail making. In this activity, the client 


Areas to Consider Using the 


must attend to circles and triangles interspersed ran-


ALd Target Assessment Model


domly on a page. Specifically, the task is to draw a 


line from a circle to a triangle keeping that pattern 


until all the shapes are connected. Such a nonverbal 


The current International Classification of Func-


task requires general attentional skills, sequential 


tioning, Disability and Health (ICF) model of the 


memory, and visuospatial ability. Once the clini-


patient with aphasia must include considerations 


cian has obtained the results of the assessment, a 


that extend beyond a linguistic problem. As clini-


therapy plan for the patient can incorporate this 


cians we must consider the communication activity, 


information. If the clinician plans to use a therapy 


the individual’s ability to participate in social activi-


program, such as Melodic Intonation Therapy (MIT) 


ties, and the environment (Cherney, 2016). In order 


(Helm-Estabrooks & Albert, 2004, p. 221), or the 


to address these aspects of the individual’s life, an 


Sentence Production Program for Aphasia (SPPA) 


assessment of cognitive processes is recommended. 


(Helm-Estabrooks & Albert, 2004, p. 235), which 


Professionals working with people with aphasia 


requires attention to black and white line drawings, 


would be remiss if they did not consider a patient’s 


it is necessary to consider information about their 


ability to attend to tasks, use memory functions, per-


attention and visuospatial skills. This will impact 


ceive visuospatial details, and engage their execu-


the patient’s success and may require the clinician 


tive functions. Helm-Estabrooks and Albert (2004) 


to select other assessment material. 


 


2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  31


The Target Assessment snapshot 


language functions (reading and writing, numeric/


in Acquired Language disorders


calculation, and social use of language) within the 


ALD Language area (expression, comprehension, 


According to Donovan et al. (2008), up to 65% of 


reading, and writing). In addition, emotional and/or 


people who sustain a stroke, experience cognitive 


behavioral changes due to stroke or other neurologi-


impairments that affect their Activities of Daily Liv-


cal conditions will certainly affect communicative 


ing (ADLs). Table 2–2 lists the 10 domains of func-


abilities, and clinicians should address this through 


tional cognition recommended by an advisory panel 


counseling and education of patients and caregivers, 


of experts referenced in the above study. 


as well as more directly in therapy as needed. Once 


The ALD Target Model includes all of these 


the clinician has obtained a thorough case history of 


domains except for Limb Praxis, which is not within 


the person with aphasia, we believe that the follow-


the scope of practice for speech-language patholo-


ing areas of cognition should be addressed:


gists (SLPs). The ALD Target Model separates mem-


ory, executive functioning, attention, and visuospatial 


n Attention


functions. The ALD Target Model includes all areas of 


n Memory


Table 2–2.   domains of Functional cognition supported by the World health organization (Who) Language


Ability to understand and/or produce spoken language. 


reading and Writing


Ability to read printed material and write words and numbers. 


numeric/calculation


Ability to process numerical information and/or perform mathematical calculations. 


Limb praxis


Ability to perform skilled purposeful limb movements in the presence of motor function. 


visuospatial Function Ability


to perceive and process visual information in one’s environment. 


social use of Language Ability


to use language to interact with others, including use of appropriate content, expression or comprehension of pitch, loudness or rate that conveys the speaker’s emotional intent (prosody), management of a conversational topics (cohesion), and interplay between speakers (turn-taking). 


emotional Function


Awareness of emotional state of oneself and others, and the ability to manage those emotions in terms of both personal emotional management and the management of emotions in interpersonal interactions. Also encompasses self-awareness of deficits and abilities (anosagnosia), and the presence of emotional dysfunction (i.e., depression). 


Attention


A variety of functions that include: selectivity, focusing, sustaining concentration or vigilance, switching, and modulating the intensity of attention. 


executive Function


the group of cognitive processes responsible for guiding, directing, and managing cognitive, emotional, and behavioral functions, during novel tasks such as organizing thoughts and activities, prioritizing tasks, managing time efficiently, and decision making. 


Memory


the capacity to retain a variety of information, for varying durations, and use it for adaptive purposes. 


  32  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch n Language


essary for normal conversation. An individual must 


n  Executive functions


have the ability to retrieve words to express their 


n  Visuospatial skills


thoughts and retain the content of the other speaker’s 


information in order to respond appropriately. People 


 Attention


with aphasia may lack the working memory neces-


sary to engage in discourse. The ability to sequence 


The ability to pay attention has important therapeu-


information and hold it in   memory for processing tic implications, that is, attending to tasks within 


and manipulation is a complex task requiring several 


the therapy session. In addition, attention is of pri-


systems to work simultaneously.  Semantic memory 


mary importance if one is to be safe and interac-


is the storehouse for our conceptual knowledge of 


tive in the environment. Therefore, we suggest that 


the world and for factual information that we have 


the clinician determine if the patient demonstrates 


learned. It is obvious that a patient with an impaired 


 vigilance,  which is the ability to maintain atten-semantic memory will be at a severe disadvantage 


tion over time. The underlying abilities necessary 


due to their inability to retrieve facts and concepts 


for vigilance are obviously being awake and alert. 


pertinent to activities of daily living. 


The patient must also be able to shift attention as 


In addition to the more cognitive domains of 


needed, that is, demonstrate  selective attention. This memory,  procedural memory  is used during execu-is an important cognitive skill that is necessary for 


tion of automatic tasks that were previously learned 


success in therapy, as well as for the individual to 


by the patient. This would include activities such as 


participate in social life and in their environment. 


typing, dressing, gardening, and cooking to name a 


The clinician must also evaluate the patient’s ability 


few. In the aphasic patient, the clinician must deter-


to plan and multitask. In order to live independently 


mine if procedural memory has been affected by 


or with minimal supervision, a patient must be able 


the neurologic event in case the clinician wants to 


to plan their daily activities and manage informa-


use any of those previously learned tasks in ther-


tion and situations that may happen simultaneously, 


apy. Consulting with the occupational therapist (OT) 


typically an everyday occurrence. Two very simple 


is recommended during an evaluation in order to 


methods of testing attention are using symbol can-


eventually co-treat the patient optimally. The OT can 


cellation tasks and trail-making tasks. Both require 


assess and treat the patient’s functional capabilities 


the patient to maintain attention (vigilance), shift 


for activities of daily living, giving the SLP insight into attention continuously (selective attention), and 


the patient’s procedural memory for those tasks. This 


plan their next move (executive attention). Many 


can help the SLP with functional goal formulation. 


cognitive workbooks include these types of tasks, 


and clinicians can devise their own. 


 Language


 Memory


The relationship between language and cognition is 


intricate and well-established. Any comprehensive 


In general, there are three types of cognitive mem-


diagnostic language instrument designed to evaluate 


ory (memory requiring thought). They are called 


the person with aphasia should include the follow-


episodic, working, and semantic memory.  Episodic 


ing linguistic areas for assessment:


 memory  is used when we are remembering our own 


past experiences and events that we have partici-


n Semantics


pated in throughout the day. Evaluating this aspect 


n Syntax


of cognitive memory can help the clinician with a dif-


n Morphology


ferential diagnosis (e.g., raising questions about one’s 


n Pragmatics


ability to recall events, which is important to know in 


n Phonology


assessing for dementia). For example, the patient may 


benefit from a memory book to assist with planning 


In order to benefit from treatment, the clinician 


and keeping appointments.  Working memory  is nec-


must develop compensatory strategies that take into 


 


2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  33


account the patient’s cognitive skills. Furthermore, 


tional therapist will also be invaluable for consulta-


the extent of damage to the patient’s cognition will 


tion in this area.  Visual perception  encompasses the influence therapeutic considerations. We suggest 


ability to discriminate, analyze, recognize, and inter-


that a comprehensive cognitive-linguistic evaluation 


pret visual stimuli. Visual perception is an extremely 


should include the following:


important skill when working with the patient with 


aphasia because SLPs tend to use visual stimuli to 


n Perception


facilitate language production. Another visuospatial 


n Discrimination


skill necessary for language therapy is  visual con-


n Orientation/awareness


 struction. This is defined as the ability to combine n  Memory (immediate/recent/long-term)


visual perception with a motor response. This skill is 


n Reasoning/problem-solving/inference


critical for writing, printing, and drawing, which in 


n  Auditory processing and comprehension


some cases remains the only functional communica-


n  Reading and visual processing


tion modality in people with aphasia. Both the Rey 


n Writing


Complex Figure Test (Meyers & Meyers, 1995) and 


n  Pragmatics and affect


the Boston Assessment of Severe Aphasia (BASA; 


Helm-Estabrooks, Ramsberger, & Nichols, 1989) 


 Executive Functions


assess some of these skills. 


Executive functions refer to the highest level of human 


Integrating Tasks: Clock drawing.   The clock 


cognitive ability. It is possible for a patient to present drawing task has been used for many years as a 


clinically with a language impairment secondary to 


quick but very effective tool in the assessment of 


a neurological insult and still have relatively intact 


cognition in the person with aphasia. Why? Here is 


executive functions. However, the patient may not 


the instruction:


be able to demonstrate this to the clinician verbally 


 Draw a clock, put in all the numbers, and set 


so assessing executive functions nonverbally must 


 the clock to 10 minutes after 11. 


be considered in the person with aphasia. Executive 


functions include tasks such as  planning, sequencing, In order to complete this task, the patient must pos-accomplishing goal-directed behavior, maintaining 


sess the  language skills  to process the directions flexibility, problem-solving, reasoning,  and  judgment. 


and write the numbers in the correct place on a 


These skills are needed in order to function indepen-


clock. The patient must have the  memory  to store dently in the world. Evaluating these skills will help 


and later retrieve the time setting. He or she must 


the clinician in postdischarge planning by informing 


have the  visuospatial skills  to represent the clock other team members of cognitive assessment out-correctly. He or she must possess  visuoperceptual 


comes. Furthermore, the status of a patient’s executive 


 attention   and motor skills to execute the mental functioning will impact selection of language goals. 


image. Finally, he or she must have the  executive 


Some tests that the SLP can use to evaluate this area 


 functions  that are needed to plan the task and make include the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (Psycholog-adjustments if necessary. In short, clock drawing 


ical Assessment Resources, 2003), Tower of Hanoi, 


enables the SLP to get a glimpse of the patient’s 


and/or the Maze Solving subtest from the CLQT. 


cognitive skills to plan therapeutically. 


 Visuospatial Skills


screening and  


Visuospatial skills must be assessed in order to know 


diagnostic Assessment


if any confrontation naming deficits, writing, and/or 


reading problems are affected by this type of impair-


ment. The clinician must evaluate the patient’s visual 


Assessment of language and cognition generally in- 


fields to rule out visual inattention, visual neglect, or cludes a patient history, review of previous records, 


a visual field cut due to hemianopsia. The occupa-


determination of assessment needs, and clinical 


  34  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch findings from administration of assessment mea-Sherer, Yablon, Gontkovsky, & Vickery, 


sures. The patient history should include demo-


2005)


graphic information, etiology, and details about the 


n  Mobile Aphasia Screening Test (MAST; 


patient’s health condition, prior medical conditions, 


Choi, Park, Ahn, Son, & Paik, 2015)


and sensory information regarding current vision 


n  ScreeLing (Doesborgh, van de Sandt-


and hearing, and any motor impairments. The clini-


Koenderman, Dippel, van Harskamp, 


cian should also consider the patient’s behavioral 


Koudstaal, & Visch-Brink, 2003)


presentation during the assessment process because 


n  Sheffield Screening Test of Acquired 


it may impact motivation about therapy. 


Language Disorders (SST: Al-Khawaja, 


There are many assessment measures avail-


Wade, & Collin, 1996)


able today and it can be challenging to choose the 


n  Semantic Verbal Fluency (SVF; H. Kim, J. 


best ones for patients. For example, some standard-


Kim, D. Y. Kim, & Heo, 2011)


ized diagnostic tests provide an aphasia quotient 


n  Ullevaal Aphasia Screening Test (UAS; 


that allows the clinician to determine the patient’s 


Thommessen, Thoresen, Bautz-Holter, & 


type and severity level of acquired language disor-


Laake, 1999)


der. Most tests include tasks for orientation, audi-


tory comprehension, speech, matching, sequencing, 


The above screening tests included various 


repeating, naming, reading, writing, and calculation. 


subtests for each measure, but collectively assess 


This portion of the chapter focuses on assessments 


areas of comprehension, expression, including nam-


for screening and diagnosis of acquired language 


ing, repetition, automatic speech, picture recogni-


disorders. 


tion, executing verbal orders, following instructions, 


yes/no responses, spelling, object recognition, ver-


bal fluency, word strings, reading, writing, and free 


screening Tests


communication. The following screening tools are 


some examples of quick and efficient measures: the 


Screening tests are often used for bedside evalua-


FAST (administration 10 minutes; sensitivity 87% to 


tions when an acquired language disorder is sus-


100%), the SST (administration 5 minutes; sensitiv-


pected because they are generally less demanding 


ity 92%), and the LAST (administration 2 minutes; 


than diagnostic tests. A primary goal of screening 


sensitivity 97%). A copy of the validated LAST is 


is to distinguish between aphasic and non-aphasic 


available from http://stroke.ahajoournals.org (Fla-


patients quickly, efficiently, and reliably (Wilson, 


mand-Roze et al., 2011). Another good example of 


Eriksson, Schneck, & Lucanie, 2018). Additional 


time efficiency and sensitivity is the ScreeLing. It 


diagnostic assessment should be determined by a 


was found to have excellent diagnostic properties, 


speech-language pathologist when the patient is 


providing information on patients’ linguistic levels 


medically stable. 


for syntax, semantics, and phonology, making it use-


Based on the systematic review by Hachioui 


ful for language therapy. The SVF was also a very 


et al. (2017), the following screening measures were 


quick screener that was used for gathering infor-


reviewed for reliability, accuracy, and feasibility 


mation about patients with dementia. The authors 


(listed alphabetically):


noted that several other screening tools are widely 


used in clinical practice. These included The Acute 


n  Frenchay Aphasia Screening Test, (FAST; 


Aphasia Screening Protocol (Crary, Haak, & Malin-


Enderby, Wood, & Wade, 1987)


sky, 1989), the Aachen Aphasia Bedside Test (Biniek, 


n  Language Screening Test (LAST; Flamand-


Huber, Glindemann, Willmes, & Klumm, 1992) and 


Roze, Falissard, Roze, Maintiguex, Beziz, 


the Western Aphasia Battery–Revised with Bedside 


Chacon, Join-Lambert, Adams, & Denier, 


(Kertesz, 2006). They were not included in the sys-


2011)


tematic review by Hachioui et al. (2017) because 


n  Mississippi Aphasia Screening Test  


they were not systematically validated in stroke 


(MAST; Nakase-Thompson, Manning, 


patients with and without aphasia. 


 


2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  35


 Bedside Assessment


to screen for language functions of auditory com-


prehension, naming, reading, expressive language, 


Screening tests are often used for bedside evalua-


repetition, verbal memory, reasoning/judgment, and 


tion and the measures noted above (Hachioui et al., 


speech/voice are included. Further descriptions of 


2017) are considered suitable for bedside use. Com-


several screening tools can be found within the sec-


monly used screening tests include the Western 


tion on assessment measures below. 


Aphasia Battery–Revised (WAB-R; Kertesz, 2006) 


and others. The WAB-R provides a bedside evalu-


ation component that takes approximately 15 min-


diagnostic Assessment in 


utes to administer. 



OceanofPDF.com

Acquired Language Disorders: A Case-Based Approach, Third Edition
    
    
    
    
  


  

Acquired Language disorders: 


The WAB-R Bedside is a brief measure that pro-


Making sound decisions


vides linguistic information for differential diagnosis 


of aphasia. It is considered to have adequate internal 


Diagnosis of an acquired language disorder is nec-


consistency and has been found sensitive enough to 


essary for appropriate treatment planning and care. 


be a functional measure (Nilipour, Pourshahbaz, & 


An appropriate diagnosis for therapeutic interven-


Ghoreyshi, 2014). It considers the following areas 


tion requires more than one assessment measure. 


of communication:


Functional information and a needs assessment also 


provide valuable information for treatment. Care-


n  Spontaneous Speech (content and fluency)


givers are valued people on the team and can also 


n  Auditory-Verbal Comprehension (yes/no 


provide important information about the patient’s 


questions)


daily functioning, mood, successes, limitations, and 


n  Sequential Commands (following 2- to 


needs. Thus, diagnostic tests provide one method 


4-step directions)


to identify or confirm a suspected diagnosis, but 


n  Repetition (words and sentences)


additional information is equally important when 


n  Object Naming (20 items)


planning an effective treatment program. 


n  Reading (paragraph from a magazine)


In order to make sound decisions about appro-


n  Writing (basic information, dictation, and 


priate assessments, research reviews are critical. 


picture description)


Rohde, Worrall, Godecke, O’Halloran, Ferrell, and 


Massey (2018) conducted a systematic review of 


Other brief measures include the Bedside Evalua-


commercial and noncommercial tests for acquired 


tion Screening Test-2 (BEST-2; West, Sands, & Ross-


language disorders. These investigators searched 


Swain, 1998), which is another measure to help 


161 publisher databases and websites and evalu-


speech-language pathologists gather essential lan-


ated test manuals and studies. In total, 50 tests met 


guage information in 20 minutes or less. The BEST-2 


diagnostic eligibility. Of those, 43 included validity 


screens auditory comprehension, speaking, and 


analysis for language performance, and of those, 


reading abilities in individuals. Helm-Estabrooks and 


26 included studies comparing stroke patients with 


Albert (2004) also provide a brief informal exam that 


nonstroke patients. There were three tests that 


may be administered at bedside, with the inclusion 


evaluated the performance of language impaired 


of several common objects. Areas screened include: 


and nonlanguage impaired stroke patients. Those 


a discourse sample, auditory comprehension skills, 


included the Aphasia Diagnostic Profiles (ADP; 


naming common objects and coins, repetition of 


Helm-Estabrooks, 1992), the Neurosensory Centre 


words and sentences, reading printed words, writ-


Comprehensive Examination for Aphasia (NCCEA; 


ing names of objects, praxis for individuals who are 


Spreen & Benton, 1977), and the Revised Token Test 


verbally restricted, and singing a familiar song. 


(McNeil & Prescott, 1978). There were six measures 


Mancinelli and Klein (2014) presented a set of 


that reported sensitivity analysis, that is, providing 


sample items for a brief, comprehensive bedside 


information about the ability of a test to accurately 


screening tool for aphasia. This measure is also 


diagnose individuals with an acquired language dis-


included in the current edition (Table 2–3). Tasks 


order. Those measures included the Western Aphasia 


Table 2–3.   sample items for a Brief, comprehensive Bedside screening tool for Aphasia Language Functions


sample Tasks (ex = example)


Basic Auditory comprehension


the patient will follow directions and/or 


 Directions:  the clinician gives five 


manipulate objects from the environment 


commands. 


based on clinician instruction:


ex:  “hand me your comb.” 


ex:  “point to the door.” 


complex Auditory comprehension  


the patient will demonstrate the ability 


 Directions:  the clinician will ask five 


to understand a short narrative presented 


questions about a narrative or story. 


verbally:


ex:  “tell me what happened to X.” 


naming


the patient will name objects in the room:


 Directions:  the clinician asks the patient 


ex:  “What is this?” 


to name five common objects within the 


patient’s field of vision. 


Writing and Functional Word retrieval


the patient will write the names of family/


 Directions:  the clinician will give the patient 


friends:


paper and pen in order to execute the task. 


ex:  “Write the names of your closest family 


members/friends.” 


reading


the patient will read greeting cards, menus, 


 Directions:  the clinician will locate functional  and newspapers available in the room: reading material within the patient’s room. 


ex:  “read this greeting card to me.” 


expressive Language


the patient will describe a room of his or her 


 Directions:  the clinician asks leading 


house:


questions to facilitate expressive language. 


ex:  “describe your bedroom at home for me.” 


repetition


the patient will repeat a word/phrase/


 Directions:  the clinician asks the client to 


sentence:


repeat words, phrases, and sentences of 


ex:  “repeat after each word or phrase:  book, 


increasing length. 


 my big book, I want my big book. ” 


verbal Memory


the patient will remember the clinician’s 


 Directions:  upon entering the room and 


name once introduced:


greeting the patient, the clinician will offer 


ex:  “i gave you my name three minutes ago. 


his or her name. 


What is my name?” 


reasoning/Judgment


the patient will respond to a home-based 


 Directions:  the clinician can choose to 


scenario:


develop the question from any home-based 


ex:  “What would you do if you ran out of a 


safety scenarios. 


very important medicine?” 


speech/voice


the patient will produce an automatic 


 Directions:  the clinician will monitor the 


speech sequence:


patient’s voice for quality, pitch, resonance, 


ex:  “name the days of the week.” 


respiration and loudness, articulatory 


accuracy, and speech intelligibility. 


 Directions for Use:  use this beside screening instrument to delineate deficit areas. the clinician can then determine the most appropriate diagnostic instrument to administer in order to provide further clinical insights into the patient’s communication profile. this would optimize treatment planning and goal selection. 


36


 


2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  37


Battery-R (WAB-R; Kertesz, 2006), Porch Index of 


with communication partners. The patient also gets 


Communicative Abilities (PICA; Porch, 1971), Com-


the opportunity to indicate his or her preferred read-


munication Activities of Daily Living-2 and 3 (CADL-


ing materials and writing needs, for example, let-


2&3; Holland, Frattali, & Fromm, 1999), Holland, 


ters, stories, cards, bills, email, and so forth. A copy 


Fromm, & Wozniak, 2018), the ASHA-Functional 


of the Aphasia Needs Assessment may be found at 


Assessment of Communication Skills (ASHA-FACS; 


https://cehs.unl.edu/documents/secd/aac/assess-


Frattali, Thompson, Holland, Wohl, & Ferketic, 


ment/aphasianeeds.pdf


1995), Functional Assessment of Verbal Reasoning 


and Executive Strategies–Adult (FAVRES; MacDonald, 


 Arizona Battery for Communication 


2005), and Examining For Aphasia-4 (EFA-4; LaPointe 


 Disorders of Dementia (ABCD)


& Eisenson, 2008). Based on this systematic review, 


these tests are worthy of consideration. 


The Arizona Battery for Communication Disorders 


of Dementia (ABCD; Bayles & Tomoeda, 1993) is 


designed for patients with neurologic disorders, 


selected Assessments for 


including dementia and head injury. Performance 


Acquired Language disorders


areas within this measure can offer essential infor-


mation for patients with aphasia also. 


The following measures are assessment tools for 


individuals with acquired language disorders sec-


n  It assesses:


ondary to stroke, traumatic brain injury, and demen-


n Linguistic expression


tia, to name a few. Some of these are comprehensive 


n Linguistic comprehension


diagnostic tools and others are more functional, 


n Verbal episodic memory


informal measures. Information about each measure 


n Visuospatial construction


is listed below in alphabetical order. 


n Mental status


Refer to Appendix B (Seven Domains Assess-


n  The ABCD was designed to identify and 


ment Summary Sheet) for a diagnostic checklist 


describe information about nonlinguistic 


that can be used to summarize findings from vari-


and linguistic communication deficits in 


ous assessment measures. The summary sheet pro-


dementia. 


vides the clinician with an opportunity to rate seven 


n  The ABCD was standardized on patients 


domains related to language and cognitive function-


with Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease, 


ing. These include: expressive language, speech, 


as well as young and older healthy 


auditory comprehension, reading/spelling, written 


individuals. 


expression, cognition, and behavioral symptoms, 


n  The ABCD allows clinicians to have an 


used in each of the case diagnostic profiles within 


understanding of the patient’s mental 


this book. 


status and their ability to read, name, 


describe, define, repeat, answer questions, 


 Aphasia Needs Assessment


follow directions, retell a story, recall, and 


recognize words, copy figures, and draw. 


The Aphasia Needs Assessment (Garrett & Beukel-


n  There are 14 primary subtests in the 


man, 2006) provides an interview checklist for the 


ABCD. These include: Mental status, 


professional to investigate the patient’s needs with 


story retelling, following commands, 


the patient and/or caregivers. It begins with ques-


comparative questions, word learning (free 


tions addressing the patient’s general well-being 


recall, total recall, recognition), repetition, 


and perceptions about communication. The next 


object description, reading comprehension 


three areas provide a checklist for the patient and/


(word and sentence levels), generative 


or caregiver to identify situations that are most dif-


naming, confrontation naming, concept 


ficult regarding communication, topics the patient 


definition, generative drawing, figure 


would like to discuss, and problems encountered 


copying, and story retelling (delayed). 


  38  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch n  The test is easy to administer and score. 


n  Development of the test items was 


Single subtests can be used. 


based on information from the research 


n  Test responses can aid clinicians in 


literature, as well as input from people 


planning intervention strategies. 


with aphasia, family members of people 


n  Testing the full battery takes from 45 to 90 


with aphasia, and speech-language 


minutes. 


pathologists. 


n  Test results help determine how coherent 


n  Research on the ALA provides evidence for 


the patient is to the environment and how 


the test’s reliability and validity. 


well he or she is able to follow directions, 


compare information to make judgments, 


 The American Speech-Language-


and recognize and identify uses for objects 


 Hearing Association’s Functional 


that are common in the house. 


 Assessment of Communication 


 Skills for Adults


 Assessment for Living with 


 Aphasia (ALA)–Second Edition


The ASHA Functional Assessment of Commu-


nication (ASHA FACS; Frattali et al., 2017). was 


The Assessment for Living with Aphasia (ALA; Kagan 


designed for assessing functional skills of adults 


et al., 2008) is a self-reported instrument designed 


in the rehabilitative process. The ASHA FACS pro-


to measure the impact of aphasia on the daily life of 


vides a conceptual framework and measurement 


people with aphasia. Conceptually, the ALA is based 


tool to assess four domains: (1) social communica-


on the Living with Aphasia: Framework for Outcome 


tion, (2) communication of basic needs, (3) reading, 


Measure (A-FROM; Kagan, 2011). It consists of 45 


writing, number concepts, and (4) daily planning. 


items designed to capture the outcome of aphasia 


Within each domain is a list of behaviors to consider 


in each A-FROM domain. The ALA is administered 


when evaluating an individual’s level of function-


within the context of a conversational interview 


ing, and planning a functional treatment approach. 


and incorporates numerous communicative sup-


The measure also considers qualitative dimensions 


ports, including aphasia-friendly written material, 


of functioning. These include: adequacy (frequency 


pictographs, conversational scripts, and scales with 


with which the client understands the message); 


pictographic anchors, to facilitate accurate compre-


appropriateness (frequency with which the client 


hension and self-reporting for people with moderate 


communicates relevant information); promptness 


to severe aphasia. 


(frequency with which the client responds without 


delay); and communication sharing (extent to which 


n  It captures both qualitative and 


the client’s communication is a burden to the com-


quantitative information related to living 


municative partner). 


with aphasia from the perspective of the 


person with aphasia. 


n  This measure was standardized on 


n  It assess five domains


185 adults with aphasia or cognitive 


n Aphasia


impairment from 12 geographic regions of 


n Participation


the United States. 


n Environment


n  The scale is scored from 1 to 7 for 


n Personal


communication independence. The scores 


n  Moving on with Life (The Wall question)


range from 1 (does not perform even with 


n  It comes with an instructional manual and 


maximal assistance or prompting) to 4 


DVD containing information on providing 


(does with moderate assistance) to 7 (does 


Supported Conversation for Adults 


with no assistance or prompting). 


with Aphasia (SCATM) techniques for 


n  A second scale is scored from 1 to 5 for 


administering the test. 


qualitative dimensions. These include 


 


2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  39


ratings for adequacy, appropriateness, 


ate cognitive impairment (Bruno & Vignaga, 2019). 


promptness, and communication sharing. 


Areas include:


n  Using the observational rating scale takes 


approximately 20 minutes. 


n Attention


n  A communication independence score is 


n Memory


derived. 


n Fluency


n  Test results are comprehensive and 


n Language


provide meaningful information to the 


n  Visuospatial abilities


family and help guide rehabilitation 


services. 


The ACE has been found to be a useful mea-


sure in detecting and tracking dementia (Leyton, 


ASHA developed the Functional Communica-


Hornberger, Mioshi, & Hodges, 2010). Results from 


tion Measure (FCM) for adults and children in order 


a national dementia research register indicated that 


to obtain outcome data. Another benefit is that it 


Addenbrooke’s Cognitive Examination is highly 


allows the clinician to track a patient’s progress 


correlated with the Mini-Mental State Examination 


throughout the course of treatment in the speech 


(MMSE) but has better estimates of cognitive ability 


and language domains. The value of this measure 


over the MMSE by 16% (Law et al., 2013). 


is twofold: (1) it focuses on the functional aspects 


Using the ACE with 63 individuals with seman-


of communication in each domain; and (2) it pro-


tic dementia (SD) and 45 individuals with progres-


vides a scoring hierarchy to monitor progress over 


sive nonfluent aphasia (PNFA), a cutoff score of 88 


time across domains. The FCMs range from Level 0 


points (out of a possible 100) detected 95% of those 


(Unable to Test) to Level 7 (Normal in All Situations) 


with both types of dementia. Results also showed an 


(Table 2–4). FCMs Pertinent to ALD in Adults pres-


average annual decline of 10 points with no signifi-


ents the FCMs typically pertinent to ALD in adults. 


cant group differences. Regarding prognosis, change 


over 12 or 24 months was considered average for 


 Addenbrooke’s Cognitive 


these disorders. 


 Examination (ACE-III)


Leyton et al. (2010) identified the ACE as a 


global cognitive bedside assessment useful in detect-


The Addenbrooke’s Cognitive Examination is designed 


ing early stages of dementia. The ACE has been able 


for assessing mental status in individuals suspected 


to reliability distinguish between frontotemporal 


of experiencing cognitive decline and is sensitive 


dementia (FTD) and Alzheimer’s disease, as well as 


for identifying differences between mild and moder-


other affective disorders (Davies Dawson, Mioshi, 


Erzinclioglu & Hodges, 2008). It has also been iden-


tified as having fewer ceiling effects and includes 


Table 2–4.   FcMs pertinent to ALd in Adults


more language tasks that have a broader diagnostic 


utility. Using the upper cutoff of 88 points on the 


•  Comprehension of Spoken Language


ACE, very few cases of SD or PNFA would be missed. 


•  Production of Spoken Language


The newest version of the ACE (2012) can be found 


at http://dementia.ie/images/uploads/site-images/


•  Recognition of Nonspoken Language


ACE-III_Administration_(UK).pdf


•  Comprehension of Written Language


•  Production of Written Language


 Assessment of Language-Related 


•  Cognitive Communication


 Functional Activities (ALFA)


For a complete review, see Kreb, r. A. (ed.). (1996).  A prac-The Assessment of Language-Related Functional Activ-


 tical guide to applying treatment outcomes and efficacy ities (ALFA; Baines, Martin, & McMartin-Heeringa, 


 resources.  rockville, Md: American speech-Language-hearing Association. 


1999) test assesses language-related functional 


  40  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch activities in 30 to 90 minutes, and it requires that 


comprehensive assessment of the patient’s 


the patient perform each of these tasks. In order 


strengths and weaknesses in language 


for the patient to perform on these functionally 


areas to guide treatment. 


based subtests, they must have supportive auditory 


n  The test has both long and short forms 


comprehension, express themselves verbally, read, 


and also includes the Boston Naming Test 


and write, as well as use cognitive and motor skills. 


(Kaplan; Goodglass, & Weintraub, 1983) 


While a client performs each activity, the examiner 


assesses lexical retrieval abilities. 


records an objective, quantitative score. This test can 


n  The test assesses five areas of functioning: 


be used in any health care service delivery sector. 


conversational and expository speech, 


The 10 tasks are:


auditory comprehension, oral expression, 


reading, and writing. 


1.  Telling time


2.  Counting money


Testing of conversational and expository speech 


3.  Addressing an envelope


includes simple social responses, free conversation, 


4.  Solving daily math problems


picture description, and narrative discourse. It pro-


5.  Writing a check/balancing a checkbook


vides a severity rating and speech output characteris-


6.  Understanding medicine labels


tics profile. Auditory comprehension testing assesses 


7.  Using a calendar


word comprehension, following commands of increas-


8.  Reading instructions


ing complexity, understanding complex ideational 


9.  Using the telephone


material, and syntactic processing with comprehen-


10.  Writing a phone message


sion of embedded sentences. Oral expression is 


assessed for oral agility, automatic sequences, reci-


The value of this test lies in its utility for assess-


tation, melody and rhythm, repetition abilities, and 


ing the patient’s abilities to perform their activi-


naming. Reading is assessed for basic symbol rec-


ties of daily living and can be used with patients 


ognition, word identification, phonics, derivational 


16 years and older. 


and grammatical morphology, and oral reading 


with comprehension of words, sentences, and para-


 Boston Diagnostic Aphasia 


graphs. Writing assessment includes mechanics, writ-


 Examination-3 (BDAE-3)


ing to dictation, oral spelling, written picture naming, 


grammar, and narrative writing. Praxis is also tested 


The Boston Diagnostic Aphasia Examination-3  for limb and hand, as well as for buccofacial and (BDAE-3; Goodglass, Kaplan, & Barresi, 2001) is 


respiratory abilities. 


designed for assessing patients with aphasia. It 


assesses the following aspects of speech and lan-


n  Using the rating scale profile form, 


guage function in the person with aphasia:


the type of aphasic syndrome can be 


identified with a degree of validity. 


n  Auditory comprehension


n  The test was standardized on 85 aphasic 


n Articulation


subjects from inpatient, outpatient, and 


n Fluency


private practice sources with a range of 


n  Word finding


severity ratings and 15 normal elderly 


n Repetition


volunteers. 


n  Serial speech


n  Grammar and syntax


 Burns Brief Inventory of 


n Paraphasia


 Communication and Cognition


n  The BDAE-3 is a diagnostic test to 


diagnose the presence and type of aphasic 


The Burns Brief Inventory of Communication and 


syndrome, to measure performance of  


Cognition (Burns, 1997) is designed for adults with 


a wide range of abilities, and to provide a 


neurologic impairment. It can be used effectively 


 


2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  41


with individuals with left hemispheric lesions, right 


n Orientation/awareness


hemispheric lesions, and patients with other com-


n  Organization of thoughts


plex neuropathologies. Listed below are the features 


n  Memory (immediate/recent/long-term)


of this measure:


n Reasoning/problem-solving/inference


n  Auditory processing and comprehension


n  Assess specific skills a patient has and 


n Calculation


their level of functioning. 


n  Reading and visual processing


n  Determine if individuals with left 


n Writing


hemisphere lesions have language deficits 


n  Pragmatics and affect


consistent with aphasia. 


n  Determine if individuals with right 


The area of cognitive-linguistics developed from 


hemisphere lesions have patterns of 


the field of linguistics with an understanding that 


aprosodia (lack of speech prosody) or 


language development and language use are best 


visuospatial cognitive deficits consistent 


explained in reference to human cognition. In the 


with right hemisphere syndrome. 


area of cognitive linguistic study, there are three pri-


n  Determine if individuals with head injury 


mary premises: (1) there is no autonomous linguistic 


or early dementing diseases have attention 


faculty in one’s mind, (2) grammar is a conceptual-


and memory problems consistent with 


ization, and (3) knowledge of language comes from 


these disease processes. 


language use (Croft & Cruse, 2004). Cognitive lin-


n  Its scoring is set up to help determine 


guistic evaluations typically include knowledge that 


what areas to treat first (scored areas 


addresses the following types of items:


falling within the shaded zones are 


optimal for initial treatment). 


n  Orientation to the date, time, season, 


n  It is standardized on individuals from 18 to 


where someone lives and for how long, 


80 years of age and is to be administered 


one’s name, profession, and additional 


by speech-language pathologists. 


items as pertinent to the individual


n  Reliability and validity studies have been 


n  Memory for recall of numbers and words, 


completed with adequate results found. 


retelling a story, indicating food eaten 


n  It is easy to administer and score — 


during the day, activities of the day, where 


each inventory (three total) takes about 


born, birth date, family members’ names, 


30 minutes. 


and additional facts


n  Differential scoring is considered for 


n  Auditory processing and comprehension 


repetition, self-correction, cueing, or 


involving yes-no questions for basic 


delayed responses. 


information including one’s name and 


residence, answering yes/no questions for 


 Cognitive Linguistic Evaluation


factual and abstract information


n  Problem-solving for questions given 


The Cognitive Linguistic Evaluation (Shipley & 


situations, logic and reasoning, inferential 


McAfee, 2021) is an informal measure with a compre-


knowledge for correcting illogical 


hensive scope of assessment of cognitive-linguistic  


statements, providing meanings for 


skills. It is appropriate for adults and adolescents. We 


common expressions and proverbs, 


refer the reader to Appendix C for a copy of the Cog-


naming items given a series of clues, and 


nitive Linguistic Evaluation (Shipley & McAfee, 2004). 


indicating categories for similar items


n  Thought organization for providing 


n  The Cognitive Linguistic Evaluation 


definitions of words, steps taken to 


assesses:


accomplish tasks, and planning strategies 


n Perception


in addition to higher level tasks pertinent 


n Discrimination


to the individual


  42  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch n  Calculation for numerical word problems 


n  It identifies cognitive strengths and 


involving quantities, money, and time


weaknesses. 


n  Reading and visual processing for reading 


n  It is not considered a comprehensive tool 


words and determining ones that do not 


for differential diagnosis. 


belong in the group, following a series of 


n  It indicates that patients must be able to 


written directions, reading sentences aloud 


use a pen and give verbal responses to 


and answering questions about a paragraph, 


take this test. 


telling time from clock drawings, and 


n  It has more abstract items that may 


attending to specific shapes on a page


require a professional with experience for 


n  Writing one’s name and date, writing 


interpretation and application. 


a short description of activities 


n  It provides a performance review of 


accomplished during the day, and other 


cognitive abilities affecting functioning. 


written work pertinent to the individual


n  It takes approximately 30 minutes to 


n  Pragmatic behaviors of language including 


administer. 


appropriateness of physical proximity, 


eye contact and facial expression, use of 


 Coma Recovery Scale–Revised (CRS-R)


gestures, prosody, topic maintenance, turn 


taking, initiation, attention, organization, 


The Coma Recovery Scale–Revised (CRS-R; Giacino 


and ability to limit distractibility


& Kalmar, 2004) measure is useful with any patient 


who has been in a coma. The purpose of this scale 


is to assist with differential diagnosis and treatment 


 Cognitive Linguistic 


planning for patients who exhibit varied levels of 


 Quick–Plus (CLQT+)


consciousness. The items within each scale are hier-


archically arranged so that a higher number reflects 


The CLQT+ (Helm-Estabrooks, 2017) is a criterion 


a higher skill level and better prognosis. The CRS-R 


referenced test for English and Spanish-speaking 


is particularly useful for tracking progress along the 


adults with acquired neurologic dysfunction. 


six functional scales. The six scales are listed below:


n  The Plus version adds an optional, 


n  Auditory Function Scale


new flexible administration for people 


Consistent movement to command = 4


with aphasia. It also includes a new 


Reproducible movement to command = 3


semantic comprehension task. It assesses 


individuals with deficits affecting:


Localization to sound = 2


n  Attention, memory, and language


Auditory startle = 1


n  Visuospatial skills


None = 0


n  Executive dysfunction


n  Visual Function Scale


Object recognition = 5


The updated version includes: personal facts, sym-


bol cancellation, confrontation naming, clock draw-


Object localization/reaching = 4


ing, story retelling, symbol trails, generative naming, 


Visual pursuit = 3


design memory, mazes, design generation, and 


Fixation = 2


semantic comprehension. 


Visual startle = 1


More to note about the CLQT+:


None = 0


n  Motor Function Scale


n  It assesses strengths and weaknesses of 


the five cognitive domains: attention, 


Functional object use = 6


memory, language, visuospatial skills, and 


Automatic motor response = 5


executive functions. 


Object manipulation = 4


 


2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  43


Localization to noxious stimulation = 3


n  The test provides information about 


Flexion withdrawal = 2


the patient’s communication strategies, 


Abnormal posturing = 1


pragmatic skills, and interaction abilities 


that are functional in nature. 


None/flaccid = 0


n  Areas assessed in the CADL-3 include 


n  Oromotor/Verbal Function Scale


reading, writing, using numbers, social 


Intelligible verbalization = 3


interactions, contextual communication, 


Vocalization/oral movement = 2


nonverbal communication, sequential 


relationships, humor, metaphors, 


Oral reflexive movement = 1


absurdities, and internet basics. 


None = 0


n  It can also be used for individuals with 


intellectual disability, dementia, traumatic 


n  Communication Scale


brain injury, and right hemisphere 


Functional/accurate = 2


syndrome. 


Nonfunctional/intentional = 1


n  It contains 50 items and is generally 


None = 0


administered in 30 to 50 minutes by 


a licensed, certified speech-language 


n  Arousal Scale Attention = 3


pathologist. 


Eye opening without stimulation = 2


n  Patients can ask for repetition of items. 


Eye opening with stimulation = 1


n  Video-recording is encouraged for 


Unarousable = 0


assessing nonverbal, as well as verbal 


behaviors. 


The CRS-R also includes a Brain Stem Reflex 


n  Differential scoring is provided for 


Grid, an Arousal Facilitation Protocol, a supplemen-


adequacy of responses. 


tary Assessment of Contingent Behavior to assess 


n  Results can pinpoint strengths in 


vocalizations, gestures, and affective responses, and 


communication and determine what the 


charts to track and score progress. This measure 


patient is functionally able to communicate. 


is available online at http://www.coma.ulg.ac.be/ 


images/crs_r.pdf


 Communication Confidence Rating 


 Scale for Aphasia (CCRSA)


 Communication Activities of Daily 


 Living, Third Edition (CADL-3)


The Communication Confidence Rating Scale for 


Aphasia (CCRSA; Babbitt, Heinemann, Semik, & 


The CADL-3 (Holland, Fromm, & Wozniak, 2018) 


Cherney, 2011) is an efficient tool for measuring the  


is designed for adults with neurogenic communi-


communication confidence in persons with aphasia. 


cation disorders. It provides a section for medical 


Test-takers rate their confidence in specific situa-


information about the patient. Scoring guidelines 


tions on a 100-point scale with 10-point intervals. 


are on the protocol form. Test questions generally 


The CCRSA consists of 10 items and can be admin-


relate to background information about the patient’s 


istered to individuals with mild to severe aphasia. 


functional situations, such as going to a doctor’s 


Development of the CCRSA occurred in two phases. 


appointment, traveling in a car, shopping, making 


In phase 1, eight items from the ASHA Quality of 


purchases, dealing with computers and phones, and 


Communication Life Scale (ASHA QCL; Paul et al., 


responding to pictures, headlines, using a calendar, 


2004) were adapted to evaluate communication 


completing a form, and so forth. 


confidence and reworded in a format similar to 


the Self-Efficacy Scaling for Adult Stutters (SESAS; 


n  The new edition was normed on a new 


Ornstein & Manning, 1985). In phase 2, one of the 


sample of 115 adults with neurogenic 


original scale items was divided into two questions 


communication disorders. 


and another more challenging item was added to 


  44  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch increase the utility of the tool for people with mild 


n  The Disability Questionnaire has a 


aphasia, resulting in the current 10-item question-


disability self-rating scale and assessments 


naire. The value of this instrument lies in its use as 


of self-image and emotional support. 


an outcome measure for assessing the changes in 


n  The CAT does not assign people with 


the confidence of a client with aphasia to commu-


aphasia to syndromes. According to some 


nicate in daily life situations following a period of 


investigators (Gordon, 1998; Feyereisen, 


treatment. The areas of communication confidence 


Pillon, & de Partz, 1991), assigning 


measured by the CCRSA are:


an aphasic syndrome on the basis of 


spontaneous speech characteristics can be 


1.  Talking with people


unreliable. 


2.  Staying in touch with family and friends


n  The CAT compares degree of impairment 


3.  Being included in conversations


across different tests (language 


4.  Following news and sports on TV


comprehension, repetition, spoken output, 


5.  Following movies on TV or in the theater


reading aloud, and writing) to assess the 


6.  Speaking on the telephone


level of performance across subtests. 


7.  Other people understanding you


n  It can also differentiate between those 


8.  Making your own decisions


who have aphasia and those with normal 


9.  Speaking for yourself


language, as well as predict relative 


10.  Participating in discussions about your finances


outcome (12 months postonset) for those 


tested during the first few months after the 


 Comprehensive Aphasia Test (CAT)


onset of aphasia. 


The Comprehensive Aphasia Test (CAT; Swinburn, 


 Examining for Aphasia–


Porter, & Howard, 2005) was the first new aphasia 


 4th Edition (EFA-4)


assessment tool to appear in English for 20 years. The 


CAT is intended to assess language, screen for cogni-


Examining for Aphasia Test, in its fourth edition 


tive deficits, monitor changes in aphasia over time, 


(LaPointe & Eisenson, 2008), is designed for adults 


and consider the effects of aphasia on the individual’s 


who are at least 18 years old to assess aphasia and 


life. The authors state that the CAT, a short standard-


brain-based language disorders. The revised edition 


ized aphasia battery, assists in providing a prognosis 


considers cognitive, linguistic, and personality fea-


and designing therapy. The CAT has three parts. 


tures associated with acquired aphasia. Both strengths 


and weaknesses in receptive and expressive lan-


1.  The Cognitive Screen


guage are identified. Specific subtests include:


2.  The Language Battery


3.  The Disability Questionnaire


n  Visual Recognition


n  Auditory Recognition


n  The Language Battery assesses auditory 


n  Tactile Recognition


comprehension at varying levels of 


n  Auditory Verbal Comprehension


complexity, written comprehension, 


n  Silent Reading Comprehension


oral reading, verbal expression, written 


n  Nonverbal Tasks


expression, and repetition, all at varying 


n  Verbal Tasks


levels with a variety of tasks using real 


n  Meaningful Speech


words, nonwords, sentences, and digits. 


n  Meaningful Writing


n  The Cognitive Screen screens for cognitive 


deficits that can influence language 


The EFA-4 has a short form with 17 items from the 


performance and includes subtests to 


larger diagnostic form. Personal history and diag-


assess visual neglect, memory problems, 


nostic summary forms are also included. Testing 


acalculia, and ideational apraxia. 


time ranges from 30 to 60 minutes and provides 


 


2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  45


subtest and composite scores, standard scores, and 


items within four domains of language. These 


percentile ranks. The test is said to be reliable and 


include auditory comprehension, spoken language, 


valid with high sensitivity and specificity. 


reading, and writing. An abbreviated version without 


reading and writing sections is also available. The 


 Focus on Function and 


measure is considered quick (3 to 10 minutes to 


 Functional Tasks


administer) and simple, and can be given by non-


speech-language specialists such as nurses, occu-


Focus on Function (Klein & Hahn, 2007) has a rating 


pational therapists, and others. Specialized training 


scale that addresses the individual’s ability to perform 


is not required. A stimulus card is the only equip-


daily tasks that require reading, writing, listening, and/


ment needed. The maximum score is 30, with higher 


or speaking. A breakdown of visually mediated and 


scores indicating better language skills. It is listed as verbally mediated functions of receptive and expressive 


having good reliability. 


language is delineated in Appendix 2–A, Functional 


Communication Connections Octagon. The following 


 Functional Assessment of 


activities require functional communication skills. This 


 Verbal Reasoning and Executive 


is not an exhaustive list but may provide some ideas 


 Strategies (FAVRES)–Adult


for consideration when planning treatment. 


The Functional Assessment of Verbal Reasoning and 


1. Engaging in basic communication, including 


Executive Strategies (FAVRES; MacDonald, 2005) is 


expressing ideas and starting conversations


designed to evaluate higher level cognitive func-


2. Using a phone or computer for texting and 


tions, including complex expression, verbal reason-


email, making appointments, taking messages, 


ing, and executive functioning, in individuals with 


taking photos, setting a calendar, using apps 


acquired brain injuries (ABI). A patient’s cognitive-


of personal interest, using the internet to seek 


communication skills are assessed in four function-


information, and for calling and talking to oth-


ally relevant tasks made up of familiar everyday 


ers, and so forth


activities that require the integration of multiple 


3. Managing and understanding time, including 


cognitive-linguistic processes (e.g., reading compre-


designing a schedule and using a calendar


hension, writing, working memory, planning, and 


4.  Managing and understanding finances, includ-


reasoning). The test-taker’s tasks performance is 


ing writing checks, bill-paying online, and using 


measured in terms of efficiency (TIME), accuracy of  


an automatic teller machine


the solutions provided, (ACCURACY), and quality 


5.  Shopping, including working with money


of the rationale provided for the solutions (REA-


6.  Preparing meals and cooking, including plan-


SONS). Additionally, qualitative information about 


ning menus, writing shopping lists, and follow-


the test-takers’ observed behaviors exhibited when 


ing recipes


completing the tasks are recorded on a 5-point scale 


7.  Getting around, including reading and under-


(Strength and Weakness Checklist), and a post hoc 


standing signs, symbols, maps, and following a 


analysis is completed by asking the test-taker six 


GPS


questions about how he or she solved the problems 


8.  Engaging in household activities such as cook-


of the tasks (Analysis of Subskills). The FAVRES is 


ing, cleaning, gardening, and so forth


intended to be a valuable tool for predicting how 


9.  Participating in social activities with friends and 


a patient would potentially communicate in real-


family


life situations. A study by Isaki and Turkstra (2000) 


10.  Engaging in preferred leisure activities


provides evidence for using the FAVRES to assist in 


decision-making about readiness to return to work. 


 Frenchay Aphasia Screening Test


n  It assesses the integration of cognitive-


The Frenchay Aphasia Screening Test (FAST; 


communication skills in four functional 


Enderby, Wood, Wade, & Hewer, 1987) includes 


tasks:


  46  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch n  Planning an Event


n  Stage 5.  Moderate dementia; need 


n Scheduling


assistance for ADLs; cannot live 


n  Making a Decision


independently; disorientation; cannot 


n  Building a Case


recall address and phone; general memory 


n  Completion of all four tasks usually takes 


impairment (MMSE score 11 to 16)


50 to 60 minutes and the post hoc analysis 


n  Stage 6.  Moderately-severe dementia; 


takes an additional 10 minutes or less. 


usually in long-term care facilities; family 


The individual tasks can be administered 


becomes unfamiliar; need assistance 


separately across multiple sessions. 


with basic ADLs; incontinent; delusions; 


n  It was tested using a sample of 52 adults 


repetitive behaviors; agitation (MMSE 


with ABI and 101 nonbrain injured 


score 1 to 10)


adults. Scores on each of the four tasks 


n  Stage 7.  Severe dementia; loss of 


differentiate participants with ABI from 


language; incontinent of bowel and 


those who did not have an ABI. 


bladder; nonambulatory (MMSE score 0)


n  It has acceptable inter-rater reliability. 


n  It can be used for adults 18 years of age  


 The Kentucky Aphasia Test (KAT)


or older. 


The Kentucky Aphasia Test (KAT; Marshall & Wright, 


A student version of the FAVRES (S-FAVRES; Mac-


2007) is an objective test of language functioning for 


Donald, 2016) is also available for evaluating mild 


aphasia. It is considered a clinician-friendly mea-


cognitive-communication deficits in adolescence 


sure that helps determine language functioning at 


youths who have had a brain injury and are 12 to 


the early postonset phase following a stroke. This 


19 years old. 


clinician-friendly test is one that can be given in its 


entirety in a brief amount of time. It is also appli-


 Global Deterioration Scale (GDS)


cable to people with various degrees of language 


impairment and is convenient to administer in a 


The GDS (Reisberg, Ferris, de Leon, & Crook, 1982) 


variety of health care settings. It incorporates a mul-


considers cognitive, functional, and behavioral 


tidimensional scoring system and permits response 


impairments in dementia. The test was designed 


features, such as self-corrections and delays. A vari-


to evaluate the stages of Alzheimer’s disease, from 


ety of response modes (gesture, drawing, pointing, 


normal to late dementia; however, we believe that 


and writing) are considered in the scoring module. 


its use can be expanded to other forms of dementia 


This measure includes both orientation and pic-


due to its content. It has a seven-stage rating scale 


ture description tasks. The subtests include picture 


that has been correlated with the MMSE (Eisdorfer 


naming, repetition span, defining words, following 


et al., 1992). They are described below:


commands, answering yes/no questions, and word-


to-picture matching. It is considered to be sensitive 


n  Stage 1.  Objectively normal


for accurately differentiating people with aphasia 


n  Stage 2.  Independent; mild memory loss; 


from normally functioning adults. 


subjective complaints (MMSE score 26  


The reader can find the entire measure in Mar-


to 30)


shall and Wright (2007). Appendices A through D 


n  Stage 3.  Mild cognitive impairment; 


within their journal article include the subtests of 


declining work performance; denial 


the KAT in its early developmental stages. 


(MMSE score 21 to 25)


n  Stage 4.  Early dementia; problems 


 Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE)


with complex tasks; assistance may be 


necessary; denial is common; withdraw 


The MMSE (Folstein, Folstein, & McHugh, 1975) is 


from challenging situations (MMSE score 


the most commonly used assessment tool for evalu-


17 to 20)


ating the person with memory impairment and is 


 


2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  47


used, in part, to help diagnose dementia in cogni-


n  Conceptual thinking


tively impaired patients. The MMSE has value for 


n Calculations


persons with aphasia and cognitive concerns, as it 


broadly assess the following areas:


Another version of the assessment, known as 


the Montreal Cognitive Assessment–Basic (MoCA-B; 


n  Orientation to time and place


Julayanont et al., 2015), has been developed for 


n  Immediate and delayed memory


screening mild cognitive impairment with illiterate 


n  Naming common objects


and low-educated elderly. The test takes approxi-


n  Repetition of phrases


mately 15 to 20 minutes to administer. Validation 


n Reading


included individuals 55 to 80 years of age, with 


n  Following written and oral directions


four or less years of education. The measure fulfills 


n  Writing a sentence


an important and unmet need to assess individuals 


n  Copying a design


who have limited access to education. 


The MMSE is based on a 30-point scale. Point 


 Progressive Aphasia 


ranges correlate with the level of severity. Scores of 


 Severity Scale (PASS)


less than 24 are considered abnormal. The MMSE 


is also useful as a screening tool and/or part of an 


The Progressive Aphasia Severity Scale (PASS; Sapol-


assessment battery for newly admitted patients to 


sky, Domoto-Reilly, & Dickerson, 2014) is a clinical 


a rehabilitation facility, long-term care facility, sub-


instrument designed to identify and rate the severity 


acute facility, or acute rehabilitation facility. This tool of speech and language impairments in individuals 


can also be used to monitor a patient’s progress over 


with primary progressive aphasia (PPA). The scale 


the treatment period. Here is a link to the MMSE 


consists of ten domains for rating speech and lan-


with information about scoring and interpretation: 


guage skills and three supplemental domains for rat-


https://www.uml.edu/docs/Mini%20Mental%20


ing pragmatic communication abilities. Ratings are 


State%20Exam_tcm18-169319.pdf


made by the SLP after a structured clinical assess-


ment consisting of an interview with the patient and 


 Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA)


an informant who is close to the patient, such as a 


family member, completion of a questionnaire by 


The MoCA (Nasreddine, Phillips, & Bedirian, 2005) was the informant, and testing of the patient. Although 


developed to screen patients for an acquired language 


the scale is in its early developmental stages, it pro-


disorder. Individuals scoring equal to or greater than 


vides an organized framework that can assist in 


26 (of 30 points) fall within the normal range. An 


diagnosing PPA variants and monitoring progres-


online copy of the MoCA may be found at https://


sion of symptoms over time. It assesses 10 primary 


www.parkinsons.va.gov/consortium/moca.asp


speech and language domains and 3 supplemental 


The measure provides a quick screening for 


pragmatic communication domains:


individuals with mild cognitive dysfunction. Reviews 


indicate that it is sensitive in detecting patients who 


n  Primary domains


have mild cognitive impairment and mild Alzheim-


n Articulation


er’s dementia. The MoCA assesses the cognitive 


n Fluency


domains of:


n  Syntax and grammar


n  Word retrieval and expression


n  Attention and concentration


n Repetition


n Orientation


n  Auditory comprehension


n  Visuoconstructional skills


n  Single-word comprehension


n  Executive functions


n Reading


n  Memory (immediate and delayed)


n Writing


n  Language (naming)


n  Functional communication


  48  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch n  Supplemental domains


n  Data was obtained on 25 subjects with 


n  Initiation of communication


aphasia and 32 nonbrain-damaged 


n Turn-taking


subjects, matched for age, education, and 


n  Generation of language


social variables. Descriptive statistical 


analyses (means and standard deviations) 


Domains are rated on a 5-point scale from 0 = “nor-


are provided as a gauge for abnormal 


mal” to .05 = “questionable/very mild impairment,” 


performance. 


1 = “mild impairment,” 2 = “moderate impairment,” 


n  The materials provided may also be used 


3 = “severe impairment.” 


for a variety of procedures and tasks. 


Additional information about the PASS includ-


n  This lengthy test has studies reporting on 


ing the questionnaire, a copy of the scale, and 


its use. 


administration instructions can be found at http://


www.nmr.mgh.harvard.edu/~bradd/PASS.html


 Repeatable Battery for the Assessment 


 of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS)


 Psycholinguistic Assessments 


 of Language Processing 


The Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neu-


 in Aphasia (PALPA)


ropsychological Status-Update (RBANS Update; Ran-


dolph, 2012) is a brief, individually administered test 


The Psycholinguistic Assessments of Language Pro-


to determine cognitive deficits in individuals with 


cessing in Aphasia (PALPA; Kay, Lesser, & Coltheart, 


neurological disease or injury, including dementia, 


1992) is designed for patients with acquired brain 


stroke, TBI, concussion, Huntington’s disease, Par-


damage and aphasia. 


kinson’s disease, and schizophrenia. The RBANS 


Update contains 12 subtests to examine cognitive 


n  It assesses language processing and 


functioning and profiles impairments across five 


evaluates:


domains. Subtests scores from each domain are con-


n Recognition


verted to an index score and percentile bands using 


n Comprehension


normative date based on the test-taker’s age. 


n  Production of spoken words and 


sentences


n  It assesses functioning in five domains:


n  Production of written words and 


n  Immediate Memory


sentences


n Visuospatial/Constructional


n  The PALPA consists of 60 assessments 


n Language


to help diagnose language processing 


n Attention


difficulties in people with acquired brain 


n  Delayed Memory


damage. 


n  Normative age range: 12 to 89 years old


n  Subtest areas are selected according to the 


n  Administration time 20 to 30 minutes


patient’s individualized needs. 


n  Can be used as a stand-alone assessment 


n  The battery is divided into four 


for detecting and characterizing dementia 


primary areas: (1) auditory processing, 


or as a screening battery to identify 


(2) reading and spelling, (3) picture 


cognitive strengths and weakness in 


and word semantics, and (4) sentence 


adolescences and adults. 


comprehension. Modules include 


n  Alternate forms are available for repeated 


recognizing printed words, understanding 


evaluations. 


printed words, reading aloud, recognizing 


n  It includes forms for Spanish speakers 


objects and pictures, recognizing and 


living in the U.S. 


repeating speech, spelling, writing, 


n  Index scores are reported as standard 


sentence processing, and more. 


scores (mean = 100, standard deviation 


 


2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  49


= 15) based on the subtest raw scores. 


at .95. Therefore, the QAB was found to efficiently 


The index scores for each of the cognitive 


and reliably characterize profiles of individuals with 


domains contribute to a total scale 


language deficits. The authors noted that assessment 


index score and percentile. Qualitative 


of written language is minimal and that reading for 


descriptions of the RBANS index scores 


comprehension is not tested. A copy of the QAB 


(e.g., high average, low average) are 


can be found within the journal article at https://


provided in the test manual and can 


doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0192773 or online at 


be presented as in Table 2–5 for easy 


https://aphasialab.org/qab/


interpretation of quantitative results in a 


The eight QAB subtests include assessment of:


clinical report. 


1.  Level of consciousness (based on the NIH Stroke 


 The Quick Aphasia Battery (QAB)


Scale; Brott et al., 1989)


2.  Connected speech (based on conversation and 


The Quick Aphasia Battery (QAB; Wilson, Eriksson, 


picture descriptions)


Schneck, & Lucanie, 2018) is one of the newest bat-


3.  Comprehension of words


teries, aiming to provide a multidimensional assess-


4.  Comprehension of sentences


ment for language that is reliable and able to be 


5.  Picture naming


administered in 15 minutes. It is intended to bridge 


6. Repetition


the gap between a comprehensive battery and a 


7. Reading (time for responding is included in 


rapid screening tool. The QAB has eight subtests 


scoring criteria for items 3 through 7)


that vary in difficulty. This measure is unique in its 


8.  Motor speech (based on tasks of oral movement, 


sample of subjects (28 with acute stroke and apha-


diadochokinesis, and counting to 10)


sia, 25 with acute stroke and no aphasia, 16 with 


chronic poststroke aphasia, and 14 healthy con-


 Reading Comprehension Battery 


trols.) Concurrent validity was determined using the 


 for Aphasia-2 (RCBA-2)


Western Aphasia Battery. The QAB summary mea-


sures were found to be sensitive for two groups 


The Reading Comprehension Battery for Aphasia, 


with aphasia. There was good-to-excellent test-retest 


Second Edition (RCBA-2; LaPointe & Horner, 1998) 


reliability and interrater reliability. Sensitivity was 


evaluates reading impairments in people with brain 


very good at .91, and specificity was also very good 


injury, for example, stroke, TBI, and encephalopathies. 


Table 2–5.   test results from the repeatable Battery for the Assessment of neuropsychological status-update (rBAns; randolph, 2012)


subtest


Index score


percentile


qualitative description


Immediate Memory


visuospatial/Constructional


Language


Attention


delayed Memory 


Total score


  50  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch This test is suitable for anyone with an acquired 


n  Pragmatic Communication Skills (rating 


reading disability, who was premorbidly literate. 


both nonverbal and verbal communication 


The RCBA-2 is also valuable for treatment planning. 


for intonation, facial expression, eye 


The new, supplemental material in this second edi-


contact, gestures and proxemics, 


tion includes seven additional subtests that measure 


conversation initiation, turn-taking, 


the different varieties of acquired dyslexia. This new 


topic maintenance, response length, 


material measures oral-reading comprehension, as 


presupposition, and referencing skills. 


well as silent reading comprehension. The subtests 


n  Narrative Discourse (completeness for 


can be used at the examiner’s discretion, that is, all 


story-retelling). 


subtests can be administered or just selected sub-


n  Visual Scanning and Tracking (including 


tests, based upon an individual’s needs. These cover 


rate for completing). 


a diverse range of activities including:


n  Assessment and Analysis of Writing 


(copying, writing to dictation, and self-


n  Single-word comprehension for visual 


generated writing to assess organization, 


confusions


perseveration, neglect, grammar and 


n  Auditory confusions and semantic 


sentence completion). 


confusions


n  Metaphorical Language (understanding 


n  Functional reading


meaning to explain proverbs and idioms). 


n Synonyms


n  Sentence comprehension


 Ross Information Processing 


n  Short paragraph comprehension


 Assessment-2 (RIPA-2)


n Paragraphs


n  Morphosyntactic reading with lexical 


The Ross Information Processing Assessment-2 (RIPA-


controls


2; Ross-Swain, 1996) is designed for individuals 15 to 


n  Allows for entirely nonverbal responses


90 years old with neurogenic disorders. 


n  Covers a wide range of difficulty, from 


single words through complex paragraphs


n  It assesses:


n  Numerous aspects of reading are assessed, 


n Memory


including:


n Orientation


n  Word order


n Organization


n  Factual versus inferential reading


n Reasoning


n  Synonym recognition


n  Auditory processing


n  The RIPA-2 was developed as an efficient, 


 RIC (Rehabilitation Institute 


standardized test that quantifies and 


 of Chicago) Evaluation of 


qualifies cognitive-linguistic deficits. 


 Communication Problems in Right 


n  The subtests assess aspects of memory, 


 Hemisphere Dysfunction-3 (RICE-3)


orientation, recall of information, 


problem solving, abstract reasoning, 


The RICE-3 (Halper, Cherney, & Burns, 2010) 


organizational ability, auditory processing, 


includes several components and a point system. 


and retention. 


The patient’s performance is rated as severe, moder-


n  Scoring is based on a three-point system 


ate, mild, or normal on the parameters noted below:


that considers intelligibility, perseveration, 


confabulation, and tangential information 


n  Behavioral Observational Profile 


as errors. 


(interview questions, conversation, and 


n  The test requires minimal materials and is 


observations to rate attention, awareness 


easy to administer. 


of illness, orientation to person, place, and 


n  Scoring requires use of different diacritical 


time, and memory for daily events). 


markers. 


 


2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  51


n  Reliability and validity studies have been 


n Orientation


performed on individuals with TBI. 


n Attention


Verbal


 The Scales of Cognitive and 


Visuospatial


 Communicative Ability for 


 Neurorehabilitation (SCCAN)


n Memory


Verbal


The Scales of Cognitive and Communicative Abil-


ity for Neurorehabilitation (SCCAN; Milman & Hol-


Visuospatial


land, 2012) was developed to assess impairment and 


n  Problem Solving


activity limitations across eight cognitive domains. 


Verbal


These include: speech comprehension, oral expres-


Visuospatial


sion, reading, writing, orientation, attention, mem-


ory, and problem solving. The SCCAN also considers 


Numeric


the effect that the patient’s condition has on their 


daily functioning. The measure incorporates fewer 


 Scales of Cognitive Ability for 


items than traditional batteries to determine the 


 Traumatic Brain Injury (SCATBI)


patient’s abilities, which is more expedient dur-


ing administration. It has been found to accurately 


The Scales of Cognitive Ability for Traumatic Brain 


identify individuals with neurological disorders. The 


Injury (SCATBI; Adamonovich & Henderson, 1992) 


measure, intended to be brief, takes an average of 34 


is designed for patients with acquired brain damage. 


minutes to administer and has good reliability. The 


SCCAN accurately classified 98% (50/51) of neuro-


n  It assesses cognitive deficits associated 


logically impaired individuals and 95% (38/40) of 


with TBI including:


the healthy control subjects. The measure accurately 


n  Perception and discrimination (including 


identified and differentiated individuals diagnosed 


attention)


with left-hemisphere pathology, right-hemisphere 


n Orientation


pathology, and probable Alzheimer’s disease. It is 


n Organization


considered a reliable and valid measure for assess-


n Recall


ing adult cognitive-communicative disorders. 


n Reasoning


Subtests are as follows:


n  This measure assesses cognitive-linguistic 


status during recovery from head injury 


n  Speech Comprehension


and measures the extent of change during 


Single Words


a program of rehabilitation. 


Connected Speech


n  The test was standardized on head-injured 


patients throughout the United States and 


n  Oral Expression


Canada. The subjects ranged from 15 years 


Repetition


to 88 years old. 


Naming


n  The SCATBI provides a systematic method 


Connected Speech


to assess cognitive deficits. 


n  Test items are arranged with increasing 


n Reading


difficulty. 


Single Words


n  Administration takes approximately two 


Connected Text


hours with each section taking from 10 to 


45 minutes, ranging from lower to higher 


n Writing


difficulty levels. 


Single Words


n  The five scales of the SCATBI are: 


Connected Text


perception/discrimination, orientation, 


  52  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch organization, recall, and reasoning. Items 


n  It can be administered by any members of 


include: Initiating, sustaining, and shifting 


the rehabilitation team. 


attention; discriminating between shapes 


and sounds; knowing time, place, and 


The SAQOL-39 can be administered in a standard 


setting; grouping and sequencing based 


pen-and-paper interview-style format or online. 


on rules; recalling information from 


Testing materials and resources can be found at 


semantic memory and episodic memory 


https://cara-portal.azurewebsites.net/tests/


with immediate, delayed, and long-


term memory stores; and inductive and 


 Western Aphasia Battery-


deductive reasoning. 


 Revised (WAB-R)


n  Within each section, there are tests to 


determine the patient’s cognitive abilities. 


The Western Aphasia Battery-Revised (WAB-R; Ker-


These comprise 40 testlets. 


tesz, 2006) is designed for differential diagnosis of 


n  Minimal materials are needed to 


English-speaking adults and teens with neurologic 


administer the test, and the testlets can be 


disorders. 


given separately. 


n  The instructions are clear. Stimulus cards and 


n  It assesses individuals with stroke, head 


the manual must be used simultaneously. 


injury, and dementia. 


n  A severity score is determined from the 


n  It contains a bedside evaluation as a 


patient’s overall performance. Scores can 


screening tool that takes 15 minutes. 


reflect an initial level and patient progress 


n  It contains a comprehensive evaluation 


with re-administering throughout the 


composed of eight subtests with oral/ 


patient’s recovery. 


verbal sections, taking 30 to 45 minutes and 


reading sections, taking 45 to 60 minutes. 


 The Stroke and Aphasia Quality 


n  It provides diagnostic information about 


 of Life Scale-39 (SAQOL-39)


linguistic and key nonlinguistic skills most 


frequently affected by aphasia. 


The Stroke and Aphasia Quality of Life Scale-39 


n  It provides an Aphasia Quotient, Cortical 


(SAQOL-39; Hilari, Byng, Lamping, & Smith, 2003) 


Quotient, Auditory Comprehension 


is the first assessment to include the perspectives 


Quotient, Oral Expression Quotient, 


of individuals with aphasia about health-related 


Reading Quotient, Writing Quotient, and 


quality of life (HRQOL) considerations. It is a self-


bedside WAB-R scores based on 32 short 


reported measure with 39 items. Test-takers rate 


tasks. 


their responses to the questionnaire item on a 


n  Areas tested include: content, fluency, 


5-point scale with lower scores indicating greater 


auditory comprehension, repetition, 


stroke-related impairments. 


naming, word finding, reading, writing, 


drawing, block design, calculation, and 


n  It assesses four stroke-related domains:


praxis. 


n Physical


n  It contains statistical research with 


n Psychosocial


evidence of reliability and validity along 


n Communication


with information about its use for people 


n Energy


with head injury and dementia. 


n  An overall score is calculated by summing 


n  The WAB-R is considered a good predictor 


scores from all items and dividing by 39. 


of patients’ vocational outcomes. 


n  A domain specific score is calculated 


n  The test can be administered in sections, 


by summing scores of all items for the 


and it gives a comprehensive aphasia 


specific domain and dividing by the 


classification (Global, Broca’s, Isolation, 


number of items in the domain. 


Transcortical Motor, Wernicke’s, 








2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  53


Transcortical Sensory, Conduction, and 


object relatives, such as “there’s a girl who the boy 


Anomic). 


is chasing”) than canonical sentences (actives such 


n  It has been standardized on 150 patients 


as “the boy is chasing the girl,” and subject relatives 


with aphasia and 59 control subjects. 


such as “there’s the boy who is chasing the girl”). 


n  The test booklet provides an outline for 


Salis and Edwards (2009) concluded that by 


each section and provides details linking 


using different modes of testing, the speech-language 


scores with aphasia types. 


pathologist can develop a hierarchy of difficulty for 


training various sentence types because syntactic 


comprehension appears sensitive to the assessment 


Modifications to  


conditions imposed by the SLP. 


standard Assessments


Assessment of expressive language in people 


with aphasia should include functionally relevant 


It is important for SLPs to know if the tasks on the 


speech production. Although daily conversations 


assessment tool could be influencing a patient’s per-


have ecological validity, that is, real-world appli-


formance on the test; for example, sentence com-


cability, Lind, Kristofferson, Moen, and Simonsen 


prehension may be influenced by the nature of the 


(2009) argue that a more controlled monologue may 


assessment task. It is conceivable that a patient may 


be easier to acquire and analyze. Verbal descriptions 


be more or less successful depending on the mate-


and/or narratives of pictures such as the “Cookie 


rials used to assess a particular language function. 


Theft” (Goodglass, Kaplan, & Barresi, 2001) can be 


In a study by Salis and Edwards (2009), 10 aphasic 


effective methods to obtain these samples. Picture 


speakers (3 fluent and 7 nonfluent) were given three 


descriptions and story retells may offer an alterna-


different comprehension tasks. Task 1 included sen-


tive that promotes semispontaneous discourse and 


tence-picture matching using a field of four pictures. 


valuable intra- and inter-individual comparisons. 


Task 2 included sentence-picture matching using a 


Using picture stimuli such as the “Cookie Theft” 


field of two pictures plus an enactment piece that 


(Figure 2–3) as well as structured tasks, clinicians 


involved hearing a sentence that in turn had to be 


may be better able to identify anomia, a general 


acted out by manipulating animal figures (i.e., “it is 


the gorilla that kicks the hippo”). Task 3 (a no-picture 


condition) included a truth value judgment involving 


the figures. For that task, the experimenter acted out 


a scenario using the toy figures, and then made a 


statement that either matched or did not match the 


scenario. The person with aphasia was required to 


judge if the sentence and scenario matched. 


Outcomes of the study revealed that enactment 


tasks were effective for identifying syntactic deficits, 


and, in fact, identified more comprehension deficits 


than the sentence-picture matching tasks. Using toy 


figures proved to be a good way to evaluate syntactic 


comprehension. This included figure identification, 


parsing of the sentence, and the lexical processing 


necessary to plan, mentally represent, and use the 


figures to execute the sentence. On a truth-value 


judgment task, people with aphasia took longer to 


Figure 2–3.   “cookie theft.”  Source: goodglass, verify false sentences relating to the figures’ actions, 


h., Kaplan, e., and Barresi, B. (2001).  Boston Diag-


compared with true ones. They also had more diffi-


 nostic Aphasia Examination: Stimulus Cards, 


culty comprehending noncanonical sentences (e.g., 


 Short Form (3rd ed.). philadelphia, pA: Lippincott passives such as “the girl is chased by the boy,” and 


Williams & Wilkins. 


  54  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch problem found in various aphasic syndromes (Laine 


4.  Spontaneous speech elicited in an interview for-


& Martin, 2006). In their study, the data confirmed 


mat, with open-ended questions


the need to assess different lexical categories sepa-


rately and not assess overarching groupings, such as 


The sample can be part of the more objective 


 function words  and  content words. Laine and Martin standard battery of testing. Wright and Capiluto 


(2006) suggest the following types of analyses of 


(2009) found that spontaneous speech elicited by a 


aphasic discourse:


question such as, “Tell me what you see in this pic-


ture” is impoverished when compared with a narra-


n  Proportion of nouns and verbs


tive elicited by the question, “Look at the picture and 


n  Type-token ration (TTR) of nouns and 


then tell me a story that has a beginning, middle, 


verbs (lexical diversity)


and end.” This suggests that clinicians must consider 


n  Proportion of nouns and verbs used only 


the type of stimulus question so that it will elicit a 


once (lexical richness)


speech sample pertinent to their needs as evalu-


n  Proportion of high-frequency nouns and 


ators. Prins and Bastiaanse (2004) point out that 


verbs


conversational analysis of aphasic speech, which 


n  Proportion of nouns and verbs with a 


is part of a “communicative/pragmatic analysis,” is 


general meaning. 


helpful because it provides the clinician with a bet-


ter picture of the patient’s communicative behaviors 


 Conversational Analysis as a 


in real-life situations and settings. There are assess-


 Component to the Evaluation 


ment instruments used with people with aphasia that 


 of People with Aphasia


take language use into consideration. These include:


The analysis of the spontaneous speech production 


n  Functional Communication Profile (FCP; 


in daily life of people with aphasia is typically not 


Sarno, 1969)


part of the standard evaluation. This is understand-


n  Communicative Abilities in Daily Living, 


able when one considers: (1) the time it takes to 


Third Edition (CADL-3; Holland, Fromm, & 


obtain a valid sample and to analyze that sample 


Wozniak, 2018). 


using standard conversational analysis techniques; 


n  Pragmatic Protocol (PP; Prutting & 


and (2) the fact that payers, for example, the Centers 


Kirchner, 1987)


for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), and pri-


n  ASHA FACS (Frattali et al., 1995)


vate insurances, prefer quantified results because it 


is easier to monitor change and functional outcomes 


Conversational analysis, discourse analysis, and/


by comparing scores on tests and percentages in 


or narrative analysis can provide the clinician with 


progress notes. Despite these practical limitations, 


important insights into the everyday talk of people 


there is great value in examining the spontaneous 


with aphasia (PWA). Furthermore, these types of 


speech of aphasic speakers. 


analyses fit nicely within the International Classifica-


Prins and Bastiaanse (2004) conducted a review 


tion of Functioning (ICF) framework in that one can 


of the methodology for obtaining these types of 


obtain information not only on the impairment (lan-


speech samples. They distinguish among four types 


guage), but also on social participation, the patient’s 


of samples:


psychosocial adjustment to their aphasia, and the bar-


riers that prevent effective and meaningful commu-


1. Semi-spontaneous speech based on picture 


nication (Papathanasiou, Coppens, & Potagas, 2013). 


stimulation or a story retell


Adding an analysis of everyday talk to the assessment 


2.  Semi-spontaneous speech elicited in roleplaying 


battery will give the clinician a glimpse of the way 


scenarios


that people with aphasia convey meanings. Whereas, 


3.  Spontaneous speech elicited in a conversation 


the more traditional psycholinguistic, cognitive, and 


or a dialogue with someone familiar with the 


neuropsychological model of assessment focuses pri-


patient, for example, a spouse or therapist


marily on the impairment within the ICF framework, 


 


2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  55


leaving the social factors and adjustment issues out-


n  Provide compensatory strategies to 


side the scope of the evaluation process. 


communicate if a return to the patient’s 


premorbid communication status is not 


 Use of Standardized Tests for 


possible or feasible


 Individuals with Cognitive-


n  Provide education and counseling for 


 Communication Disorders


adjustment of the patient and family


n  Reduce interfering behaviors


It is a challenge to assess individuals with cogni-


n  Provide a relevant home program to the 


tive-communication disorders. The Academy of 


patient and family


Neurologic Communication Disorders and Sciences 


(ANCDS) has written on this topic (Turkstra, Coelho, 


Appendix 2-B, A Quick Reference Diagnostic 


& Ylvisaker, 2005). A committee analyzed the use of 


Chart for ALD may assist the clinician in identifying 


performance measures and questionnaires regard-


various acquired language disorders. 


ing strengths and limitations. Reliability and valid-


ity were also important factors in consideration of 


appropriate tests. Four key questions for test evalua-


service delivery and the 


tors should be considered: (1) Does the person have 


world health organization


a problem?; (2) If there is a cognitive-communication 


disorder, what are the characteristics?; (3) What are 


the implications of the test results beyond the test 


The World Health Organization (WHO) International 


session?; and (4) Where should I begin with treat-


Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health 


ment? For a complete list of the standardized tests 


(ICF) has evolved over 50 years with the latest 


that were reviewed, see Turkstra et al. (2005). 


model published in 2001. The ICF model supports 


a connection of bodily functions and structures as 


they relate to a medical diagnosis and its effects on 


goal setting Based on 


communication (World Health Organization, 2002). 


diagnostic results


The International Classification of 


Goal setting should be based on the client’s needs 


Functioning (ICF) and Living with 


and/or preferences, clinician expertise, and research 


Aphasia:  Framework for outcome 


related to the disorder. Once the clinician has com-


Measurement (A-FroM model)


pleted the evaluation, Appendix B in the back of 


the book provides the  Seven Domains  Assessment Currently, the ICF incorporates relationships of 


 Summary Sheet to facilitate goal planning based on health and their impact on bodily functions, struc-the diagnostic findings. 


tures, and activities of daily living as they affect an 


Working with patients within a rehabilitation 


individual’s participation in life’s events. According 


framework requires the SLP to consider the patient’s 


to Badley (2018), the ICF, as it has been identified, 


individual needs and desires while simultaneously 


considers environmental factors, but the essence of 


considering their level of impairments and func-


personal factors has not been depicted well due to 


tional abilities. Family members, friends, and signifi-


variations in social and cultural realms. Family mem-


cant others are excellent resources in establishing 


bers and significant others in the life of the person 


appropriate goals. The goals of treatment in therapy 


with aphasia are an important part of the communi-


should always meet the following criteria:


cation system and their advocacy is needed. 


Each of the ICF diagrams for the patients dis-


n  Promote function


cussed throughout this text, include an outline for 


n  Promote an effective communicative 


the A-FROM model (Living with Aphasia: Frame-


environment


work for Outcome Measurement; Figure 2–4) for the 


  56  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Participation in life situations = 


Involvement in relationships and choice 


activities in daily life. 


Communication and 


Living 


Personal, identity, 


language 


attitudes & feelings = 


environment = 


with 


Personal 


Anything outside the 


aphasia


characteristics 


person 


p


that helps or 


incl


in uding


cl


em


otions


em





hinders 


and attitudes. 


communication. 


Language and related impairments = 


Related to impairment in the ICF for 


talking, understanding, reading, and 


writing. 


Figure 2–4.  the A-FroM Model 


— 


Aphasia: Framework for outcome 


Measurement. 


reader to contemplate and complete with thoughts 


them. To the left side, we see the circle encompass-


about real-life outcomes regarding how living with 


ing   Communication and Language Environment. 


aphasia impacts: (1) participation in life situations, 


This domain includes anything outside the individ-


(2) communication and the language environment, 


ual that either helps of hinders communication. It 


(3) language and related impairments, and (4) the 


may involve personal attitudes, attributes of others, 


individual’s personal identity, attitudes, and feelings. 


physical factors, and/or language. The bottom circle, 


The Venn diagram for the A-FROM model 


 Language and Related Impairments,  relates to the (Kagan, 2011) is useful in describing patients. It can 


individual’s communication. In the ICF, it encom-


assist us, as clinicians, to meet our patients’ needs. 


passes functions of speaking, listening, reading, 


The circle at the top,  Participation in Life Situa-


and writing. 


 tions,  relates to the individual’s involvement in rela-According to Kagan (2011), practicing clini-


tionships, the roles they assume daily, and activities 


cian’s and others in the person’s life must remem-


that form the basis of their daily life. To the right, 


ber that one’s potential relates to more than their 


 Personal Identity, Attitudes, and Feelings help us language impairment. As clinicians we must con-consider the individual’s inherent characteristics, 


sider a person’s whole life that has been changed by 


the emotions, attitudes, and feelings that identify 


having aphasia. The person’s sense of self in living 


 


2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  57


with aphasia is vitally important to successful func-


is of a short duration; however, this is not always 


tioning. The person’s relationships and activities can 


the case. For example, if the patient is admitted with 


have a big impact on their daily quality of life. Posi-


a stroke, or pneumonia, the immediate goal is to 


tive interactions, attitudes, and feelings can make 


stabilize the patient so that treatment can proceed. 


life worthwhile. 


This can be accomplished in a short period of time, 


As you review the cases in this book, remember 


if there are no other comorbidities complicating the 


that each individual has become a new person to 


clinical picture. It could also become a protracted 


themselves, their family and friends. Life is not as it 


stay due to unforeseen medical problems that arise. 


once was for them. We present the A-FROM model 


Miller and Groher’s (1990) description is one that 


for speech-language pathologist to target treatment 


acts as a good differentiator between acute care 


as they attempt to maximize communication in the 


and post-acute care settings, but in our opinion, it 


broadest sense to enhance their clients’ quality of 


is too general to cover the myriad circumstances 


life. Dining out, playing cards, cooking, reading, 


that may arise. Nevertheless, the acute care setting 


and planning and taking vacations are just a few 


does demand its own model of service delivery, and 


of the activities the patients portrayed in our case 


Johnson and Jacobson (2007) provide a realistic and 


examples enjoyed. As you review each case, think 


valid one. They refer to it as the Acute Care Con-


about enhancing communication for such meaning-


sultative Model (ACM; Figure 2–5) by Johnson and 


ful activities. Service delivery will certainly impact 


Jacobson (2017). 


each patient as they move among the varied patient 


The most salient feature of this model is that 


settings and levels of care. 


there is no direct therapeutic component to it. The 


SLP is situated in the center of a matrix that revolves 


around three critical concepts in the acute care clini-


service delivery for people with 


cal encounter:  assessment, counseling/education, 


Acquired Language disorders


and   monitoring. The most obvious cause of this 


shift in service delivery in this setting is related to 


reimbursement. Patients in acute care will not be 


The SLP will typically encounter the patient with 


in the hospital for a lengthy stay unless there are 


an acquired language disorder in five different set-


complications to an otherwise straightforward diag-


tings: acute care settings, rehabilitation settings 


nosis. As a consequence, the primary role of the SLP 


(free-standing rehabs or acute rehabs), home care 


in this setting is to  evaluate, inform,  and  monitor settings, outpatient settings, and long-term care set-trends in the patient’s status, all in preparation for 


tings. The continuum of care for these patients has 


the next level of care. Of course, the details will 


an expected course if the patient’s medical status 


change based on the disorder type. 


is supportive, that is, acute care to rehabilitation 


to outpatient. However, understandably this is not 


always the case. This section discusses the models of 


The rehabilitation setting


service delivery appropriate to each setting, without 


referring to any specific disorder as that is addressed 


Rehabilitation is concerned with optimization and 


separately within each chapter of the book. 


recovery of patient function. As a consequence, 


there is a shift in focus once the patient reaches the 


rehabilitation setting from acute care, and the ACM 


The Acute Care setting


no longer applies. However, a revision to the ACM 


reflects the role and responsibilities of the clinician 


In the acute care setting, information and assess-


in that setting (Figure 2–6). 


ment are the focus of service delivery. Miller and 


The most salient differences in the rehabilita-


Groher (1990) state that acute care is the stage of 


tion setting is the  bidirectional  feature to patient a person’s medical care where the symptoms of a 


care and planning, indicating the importance of 


particular illness are severe, but immediate illness 


patient or caregiver input and ongoing monitoring 


  58  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Patient/Family 


Wishes


Patient 


Clinical Facts 


and S


ervice


Service 


Delivery


and 


Ethics, Quality, 


Safety Cost


and 


, 





Effectiveness


Family


Psychosocial 


Dimension


Figure 2–5.   the Acute care consultative Model (AcM). 


of the patient’s progress inherent to the rehab pro-


The home Care setting


cess. More specific, the following elements stand 


out: (1) the treatment component is now at the cen-


The number of elderly people who choose to stay 


ter of patient’s plan; (2) the arrows indicating the 


in their homes longer is likely to increase, primarily 


flow of information reflect the importance of the 


due to socioeconomic factors. This will foster a need 


caregiver in the goal planning and the treatment of 


for a general expansion in home health services. For 


the patient; and (3) monitoring continues as treat-


speech-language pathologists, this will mean higher 


ment proceeds, but discharge planning also is con-


caseloads and the need for a firmer foundational 


sidered as the patient’s status changes. There is great 


understanding of service delivery in this setting. 


variability in the ALD population due to etiology 


Home health care is preferable for many families 


and level of severity; therefore, these patients can 


and insurance companies because it is more cost-


have lengthy admissions to rehabilitation, at least 


effective than outpatient treatment, and also because 


compared with their stays in the acute care setting. 


it enhances the quality of life of the patient. There 


Both of these factors — patient variability and level 


are currently 2 million people receiving home health 


of severity — influence patient outcomes. 


services in the United States (Malone & Loehr, 2013) 


 


2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  59


Assessment


Patient/Caregiver


Counseling


Goal Planning and Treatment


Monitoring and Discharge 


Planning


Figure 2–6.   A rehabilitation Model. 


for acute illnesses, long-term disabling processes, 


terminal illness, or permanent disability. Respon-


Referral upon Discharge 


dents to the  ASHA 2011 Health Care Survey (Amer-


from Acute Care 


ican Speech-Language-Hearing Association, 2011) 


reported that their caseload in this setting consisted 


of 37% swallowing-related disorders, 20.2% aphasia, 


21% cognitive-linguistic disorders including dementia 


Assessment using OASIS 


and TBI, and 7.4% motor speech disorders, with the  


remainder dispersed among augmentative and alter-


native communication (AAC) and voice disorder cases. 


 The Home Health Model


Submit a Plan of Care (POC) 


Many patients in acute care are referred for home 


to Physician for approval 


care upon discharge. This decision is multifactorial 


and can include factors such as level of acuity of 


the illness, reimbursement issues, lack of need for 


an extensive rehab admission, and/or the nature 


Treatment 


of the intended treatment — for example, a person 


with dementia who may not need direct therapy, 


but the caregivers may need some instruction on 


the patient’s communication status. The model (Fig-


ure 2–7) is more unidirectional in this case; however, 


because treatment is in the home, family or caregiver 


Discharge and Carryover 


input influences every level of the model once the 


patient is discharged from acute care. Home health 


services are primarily reimbursed through CMS and 


Figure 2–7.   the home health Model. 


  60  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch commercial insurance companies, although reim-n  Speech intervention — one visit for the first 


bursement fees can vary. Under Medicare, approval 


week, and two visits per week for the next 


is given for a 60-day period. The direct role of the 


4 weeks. 


physician is notable and much more directly related 


n  Speech intervention — one visit for the first 


to treatment planning, when compared with acute 


week, two visits per week for the next 4 


care or rehabilitation settings. 


weeks, and then one visit per week for the 


last 4 weeks. 


Assessment in the home health setting.  


n  Speech intervention — two visits per week 


Optimization and recovery are the focus of service 


for 9 weeks. 


delivery in the home health setting, similar to that 


in the rehab setting. Of course, in some cases, recov-


Therapeutic approaches in the home health 


ery is not feasible, for example, dementia; however, 


setting can use formal treatment programs, for 


optimization may still apply. CMS mandates prac-


example, Promoting Aphasics’ Communicative Effec-


titioners in the home health setting use the Out-


tiveness (PACE), or use materials/activities found in 


come and Assessment Information Set (OASIS) for 


the home that will increase the patient’s functional-


the evaluation of patients. More detailed Informa-


ity in the social setting. The SLP can be creative in 


tion about OASIS can be found at the CMS website 


this setting, but must never lose sight of the need to 


(http://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Quality-Initiatives- 


provide evidence-based care. 


Patient-Assessment-Instruments/OASIS/index 


.html?redirect=/oasis/). At this time, an SLP, a physi-


discharge from home health Care.  When 


cal therapist, an occupational therapist, or a nurse 


the patient has achieved the goals established by 


are the only authorized providers who can complete 


the SLP, the clinician must submit a discipline spe-


the OASIS. The speech-language pathology section 


cific discharge summary or complete an OASIS dis-


of the OASIS includes the following sections and 


charge assessment. The last discipline remaining on 


must be provided by the SLP:


the case must complete the OASIS discharge assess-


ment, that is, if PT, OT, and nursing have pulled out 


n  Motor speech production


of the case, then the SLP must complete the OASIS 


n  Augmentative communication


at discharge. Maintenance of the patient’s progress 


n Swallowing


is an important factor in any therapeutic setting, 


n Cognition


and in a home health setting, the family can be 


n  Language processing


very helpful. Training the family to implement and 


n  Language expression


carry over the strategies or skills that you have given 


n  Reading comprehension


the patient can be done through videotaping your 


n  Written formulation


sessions, using charts and drawings, and encourag-


ing the family to include the patient in other social 


plan of Care.   The plan of care (POC) is based on settings where the new skills can be implemented. 


the results of the evaluation. Long-term and short-


Although home health is just as highly regulated as 


term goals are required, and the long-term goals 


rehabilitation, service delivery in this setting is the 


typically cover the 60-day reimbursement period. 


best option for some patients with ALD. 


Goals can be patient-centered or family-centered, 


must be measurable and attainable, and be within 


the scope of practice of the SLP. CMS requires 60-day 


The outpatient setting


reassessments in order for treatment to continue and 


will only be approved if the patient is making prog-


Ambulatory acute care patients with ALD who are 


ress. The POC also must specify the frequency and 


not being admitted to rehabilitation hospitals may 


duration of visits, and there are different options 


be candidates for outpatient (OP) SLP services. This 


available to the SLP. Malone and Loehr (2013, p.11) 


setting is also referred to as  outpatient rehab.  The provide the following examples:


Rehabilitation Model can also be used to charac-


 


2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  61


terize this service delivery sector as well, making 


of visits and to always ask the patient if they have 


optimization and recovery the focus of SLP services. 


had a change in insurance so that the appropri-


However, the reimbursement for outpatient treat-


ate company can be charged by the hospital. It is 


ment is different than it would be in acute rehab 


important to note that insurers reserve the right to 


or for therapeutic services delivered in a free-


deny reimbursement retroactively, which lends fur-


standing rehab hospital. Both CMS and commercial 


ther import to the necessity of writing and planning 


insurances will reimburse for OP speech-language 


measurable, attainable, and functional goals for your 


pathology services as long as the goals are mea-


patient once the assessment is completed. 


surable, attainable, and functionally oriented. Also, 


Treatment in the OP setting uses any thera-


the ICF Model of patient care is applicable to this 


peutic approach that has evidence-based efficacy 


patient population (see Appendix D). 


and is not specific to this particular setting, that is, 


The reimbursement issues are very complex 


there are no “OP only” treatment procedures. The 


and ever changing, so we refer the reader to ASHA’s 


clinician can adapt any program or therapy tech-


website for the most current information on CMS, 


nique to meet the needs of this patient type, with 


the latest Medicare Fee Schedule, and other criti-


the understanding that unlike home health care and 


cal funding aspects of the discipline for this ser-


rehabilitation settings, the time allotted to achieve 


vice delivery sector.(http://www.asha.org/practice/ 


one’s goals is much more limited. Family counseling 


reimbursement/)


and education also plays a significant role in this 


Although health care statistics change often, 


patient population. Family members and caregivers 


ASHA reports the following demographics for this 


can be very helpful with information regarding bar-


population: 44% of the adult patients seen in the 


riers and facilitators (ICF Model in Appendix D) to 


outpatient setting are people with stroke, 11% have 


the patient’s rehabilitation. Furthermore, the clini-


sustained a head injury, and 7% have a type of cen-


cian can train the family in techniques to facilitate 


tral nervous system (CNS) disease. Based on these 


carryover and maintenance of the skills attained dur-


statistics, it is clear that the majority of the OP case-


ing treatment. To summarize, SLP services in the OP 


load will need a comprehensive assessment battery, 


setting share most features with the Rehabilitation 


because many of these patients have speech, swal-


Model. The critical differences are two: reimburse-


lowing, and language disorder secondary to neuro-


ment for services and the time allotted to achieve 


logical impairment. 


the patient’s goals. 


Evaluations in OP settings are typically auto-


matically covered by the insurer, and this includes 


patients covered by CMS. Standard evaluation proce-


The Long-Term Care (LTC) setting


dures would apply, based on the disorder type, pre-


senting symptoms, and so forth. Once the evaluation 


The popular view of the residents of long-term care 


is complete, a commercial insurer must approve the 


(LTC) facilities is that they do not change, yet that 


patient for treatment. Patients are granted a specific 


is not an accurate depiction of their status. These 


number of visits based on their insurance plan, and 


patients  do  change, and their care plans most often all therapy goals are expected to be met by the end 


reflect the fluctuations in their needs, for example, 


of that time. Some insurers will request evidence 


in medical status, cognitive status, and/or behavioral 


that the treatment approach you are planning to use 


status. Many of these patients will have multiple 


has proven efficacy. For example, a patient may be 


acute care hospital admissions during their life at 


granted 30 visits. The case manager at the insurance 


the facility, and the SLP will reassess many of these 


company will inform the clinician that the patient 


patients many times, with varying results. The SLP 


can be seen in many ways, for example, 30 days in 


working in this setting will quickly learn that flex-


a row (rare), two times per week for 15 weeks, and 


ibility, interdisciplinary care, and creative problem 


so forth. Appeals for more therapy are common, 


solving are necessary in order to provide effective 


but not guaranteed. It is the responsibility of the 


service to these residents. Although recovery may 


clinician treating the patient to monitor the number 


not always be part of the rehabilitation equation for 


  62  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch these patients, optimization of their current com-icaid Services (CMS), and the current version is the 


munication and swallowing functions are certainly 


MDS 3.0 (Wisely, 2010). The form can be found at 


realistic goals. Interestingly, one can apply features 


the CMS website (http://www.cms. gov/). The MDS 


of both the ACM and the Rehabilitation Model to 


is also used by CMS and some states’ Medicaid pro-


these patients because some elements of each are 


grams to determine reimbursement rates for that 


relevant to the care of these patients (Figure 2–8). 


patient’s first 100-day stay in the facility. The patient is interviewed for personal history and preferred 


 Assessment in LTC


activities, and family involvement is encouraged by 


CMS throughout this initial process. If the patient is 


Upon admission, the patient is assessed by a pro-


still a resident after 100 days, without an intervening 


fessional in the facility (typically a nurse, but not 


acute care admission, then the patient switches to 


necessarily), using the Minimum Data Set (MDS) in 


Medicare Part B reimbursement rates. 


order to determine the patient’s needs or  resource 


Once this initial assessment is conducted by the 


 utilization.  The MDS is the mandated initial assess-MDS administrator at the facility and the patient’s 


ment according to Centers for Medicare and Med-


needs are determined, the SLP may receive a consult 


Assessment/


Family/Caregiver/Staff 


Reassessment


Counseling and Education


Treatment Planning:


Optimization and 


Compensation


Monitoring for Status 


Changes


Discharge Planning 


and/or Discharge of 


Services


Figure 2–8.   the Long-term care Model as a hybrid of the AcM and rehabilitation models. 


 


2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  63


to formally assess the patient. The SLP in the LTC 


about RUGs and their use in LTC. It should be appar-


setting can use any test instrument or methodology 


ent that interdisciplinary care is very common in 


that is pertinent to the disorder type, as long as 


LTC settings because all treatment is determined by 


the test instrument is objective and standardized. 


the MDS, which reflects the patient’s global needs. 


There are three sections of the MDS that pertain 


The SLP is an integral part of this team, so 


to communication and swallowing, which must be 


understanding the roles and responsibilities of the 


completed by the MDS administrator. Wisely (2010) 


other disciplines prevents professional encroach-


reports these as:


ment and promotes collegiality. One of the more 


pressing issues in LTC for the SLP is the concept 


n  Section B:  Hearing, Speech, and Vision


of providing specialized/individualized care. This 


n  Document the resident’s ability to hear 


includes restorative care, maintenance programs, 


with/without assistive hearing devices. 


and facilitative and/or inhibitory programs. The chal-


n  Document the resident’s ability to 


lenge is to design a care plan for this type of patient 


understand language. 


that is both reimbursable, functional, and is consis-


n  Document the resident’s ability to 


tent with their own personal goals, as mandated 


communicate with others. 


by CMS. Therefore, any therapeutic approaches 


n  Document any visual disturbances 


that can meet the patient’s current functional needs 


associated with common illnesses 


and are based on the MDS findings and the formal 


associated with aging. 


assessment are acceptable. 


n  Section C:  Cognitive Patterns


n  Document any changes to long-term and 


short-term memory. 


Monitoring Change and 


n  Document evidence for clear thinking. 


Continuation of services


n  Section F:  Preferences for Customary 


Routine and Activities


In the introduction to this section, the prevailing 


n  Document the resident’s preferences for 


thought about patients in LTC as unchanging or 


his or her daily routine and activities. 


unable to change was challenged. It is important 


CMS prefers that this information come 


that these patients be monitored for any changes 


directly from the patient; however, if 


during their stay in the facility, and rescreening is 


that is not possible, a person familiar 


very common as a result. Furthermore, patient out-


with the patient can supply the 


comes are just as important in LTC as they are in the 


information. 


rehabilitation setting because the patient’s quality of 


life is immediately dependent on those outcomes in 


 Treatment in LTC


LTC. The SLP in this setting must walk a fine line 


between demands for 85% to 90% productivity over 


Treatment for Medicare Part A patients (first 100 


the work week and providing ethical, efficacious, 


days) in LTC is based on the results of the assess-


functional, and individualized service to the patients 


ment and is included in the patient’s plan of care 


on the caseload. Therefore, determining the appro-


(POC). The patient is then assigned to a RUG level — 


priate time for discharge from SLP services is a very 


 Resource Utilization Group — based on the patient’s important responsibility in this setting. 


communication, cognitive, and/or swallowing needs. 


The RUG levels are low, high, and ultra-high, and are 


differentiated by minutes of therapy per week. For 


documentation of progress


example, a patient may be assigned to an ultra-high 


RUG and be given 700 minutes of therapy per week. 


These minutes must be split by the disciplines, based 


It is essential to continually record progress regard-


on the patient’s greatest need, that is, PT, OT, or SLP. 


ing the patient’s performance of therapeutic tasks. In 


The CMS website noted above offers information 


the acute care setting, the SOAP note is the preferred 


  64  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch form of documentation for patient progress. The note 


tion of the note, the clinician states the goals for the 


is divided into four sections:


next session, based on the patient’s performance 


during the session being reported. Below is a sam-


n  Subjective — general impressions of the 


ple SOAP note:


client during the session (feelings and 


statements about the client from the client 


Speech-Language Pathology 


and/or the family are given, information 


Date: 11/08/18 


about the client’s behavior during the 


Time: 1300–1400


session may be written, and factors that 


S:   Pt. seen bedside; alert/cooperative; sitting 


may have affected the client’s progress or 


in bedside chair; motivated; inappropriate 


lack of progress may be included in this 


laughter noted when session began; wife 


section). 


present; wife educated re: emotional 


n  Objective — measurable  information  about 


lability; pt. redirected. 


the treatment, indicating the behavioral 


objectives (data that is quantitative and/ 


O:  The patient will execute one-step 


or qualitative, behavioral objective(s) and 


commands with common objects with 


current data are written in this section). 


60% accuracy independently. 


n  Assessment — an analysis of the session 





n   One-step commands: 40% accuracy × 


with objective findings, interpretation 


5 trials; increased to 60%, with visual 


of results of the session reflecting if the 


cues, and repetition. 


client is making progress (indicate if 


the client is making progress in therapy, 





The patient will identify his paraphasias 


provide a cohesive statement, indicate if 


on 50% of occurrences at the sentence 


performance has improved, declined, or 


level, after a verbal prompt. 


remained the same with factors that may 





n   Self-identified neologism on 40% of 


be contributing). 


occurrences × 10 opportunities; no 


n  Plan — the course of treatment and plans 


change noted after a binary choice, for 


are provided in this section. Provide a 


example, “Is it a  cup or a  teptee?” 


logical follow-up to the previous section 





The patient will write single words to  


on assessment, indicating your next steps 


dictation with 80% accuracy independently. 


for the upcoming session. 





n   Writing single functional words:  eat, 


Each section of the note reflects an important 


 drink, help, pain, bathroom, wife


aspect of the session. The Subjective section reflects 





n   60% accuracy × 5 trials per word; 


the status of the patient. The Objective section 


increased to 80% imitatively. 


describes the goals and procedures of therapy for 





The patient will read the words denoting 


that session and the results, indicating the patient’s 


common objects with 80% accuracy, 


performance. Please note that if the patient does 


independently. 


 not  achieve the criterion set for a particular goal, n   Reading words was 60% accurate; 


the clinician must then intervene, that is, implement 


increased to 80% with articulatory cue. 


a technique to improve the patient’s performance. 


In essence, this  is  the therapy for that session. The A:   Pt. increased in one-step accuracy 


clinician is using a technique to improve perfor-


compared with baseline; pt. beginning 


mance, to scaffold the patient to the next level of 


to self-correct neologistic output with 


success. In the Assessment section of the note, the 


verbal cues compared with baseline; 


clinician summarizes the session for the reader, 


improvement in reading and writing 


without reporting the numbers and percentages 


compared with baseline; session pace 


from the Objective section. Finally, in the Plan sec-


good for patient skill level. 


 


2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  65


P:  1.   Increase one-steps to 70% via 


 ber and type of responses. Retrieved from http:// 


repetition, visuals, slower presentation 


www.asha.org


— note on data sheet as reminder. 


Babbitt, E. M., Heinemann, A. W., Semik, P., & Cher-





2.   Decrease neologistic paraphasias 


ney, L. R. (2011). Psychometric properties of the 


to 50% of trials via verbal and self-


communication confidence rating scale for aphasia 


corrective cues. 


(CCRSA): Phase 2.  Aphasiology,  25(6-7), 727–735. 


Badley, E. (2018). ICF and other conceptual models: 





3.   Review reading and writing targets 


Rethinking the role of context and implications for 


before next session; if performance 


assessing health. In F. Guillemin, A. Lepièçge, S. Bri-


continues to be low, consider other 


ançon, E. Spitz, & J. Coste (Eds.),  Perceived health targets/activities. 


 and adaptation in chronic disease, (pp. 32–45). 





4.   Provide counseling and education to 


New York, NY: Routledge/Taylor & Francis Group. 


family regarding stroke and aphasia. 


Baines, K. A., Martin, A. W., & McMartin, H. (1999). 


 Assessment of Language-Related Functional Activi-


Signature:  _______________________________


 ties. Austin, TX: Pro-Ed. 


Bayles, K. A., & Tomoeda, C. K. (1993).  Arizona Battery of Communication Disorders of Dementia (ABCD). 


summary


Austin, TX: Pro-Ed. 


Biniek, R., Huber, W., Glindemann, R., Willmes, K., & Klumm, H. (1992). The Aachen Aphasia Bedside 


This section addressed service delivery in the ALD 


Test — criteria for validity of psychologic tests. Der 


population in acute care, rehabilitation, outpatient, 


Aachener Aphasie-Bedside-Test-Testpsychologische 


Gutekriterien.  Nervenarzt 63, 473–479. 


home health, and LTC settings and progress moni-


Brady, M. C., Kelly, H., Godwin, J., & Enderby, P. (2012). 


toring. All of these settings are regulated by accred-


Speech and language therapy for aphasia follow-


iting agencies, along with state and government 


ing stroke.  Cochrane Database Systematic Review, 


legislation whose intent is to promote quality of 


 2012(5), CD000425. 


service and patient safety. Adult patients who are 


Brookshire, R. H. (2003).  Introduction to neurogenic 


present with ALD in any of these settings can prog-


 communication disorders (6th ed.). St. Louis, MO: ress toward greater functionality or regress due to 


Mosby. 


a myriad of circumstances. In either scenario, the 


Brott, T., Adams, H. P., Olinger, C. P., Marler, J. R., Bar-SLP is responsible for providing optimal services 


san, W. G., Biller, J., . . . Hertzberq V.(1989). Mea-


and “holding the welfare of the patient paramount” 


surements of acute cerebral infarction: A clinical 


(American Speech-Language-Hearing Association, 


examination scale.  Stroke,  20, 864–870. 


Code of Ethics, 2010). 


Bruno, D., & Vignaga, S. S. (2019). Addenbrooke’s cognitive examination III in the diagnosis of demen-


tia: A critical review.  Neuropsychiatric Disease and 


 Treatment,  15, 441–447. 


references


Burns, M. (1997).  Burns Brief Inventory of Communi-


 cation and Cognition.  San Antonio, TX: Psychological Corporation. 


Adamonovich, B. L. B., & Henderson, J. (1992).  Scales Caplan, D. (1987).  Neurolinguistics and linguistic 


 of cognitive ability for traumatic brain injury.  Chi-aphasiology.  Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University cago, IL: Riverside. 


Press. 


Al-Khawaja, I., Wade, D. T., & Collin, C. F. (1996). Bed-Cherney, L. R. (2016). Issue editor forward: Recent 


side screening for aphasia: A comparison of two 


advances in aphasia treatment. In N. Wolf-Nelson, 


methods.  Journal of Neurology,  243, 201–204. 


K. G. Butler, & L. R. Cherney (Eds.),  Topics in Lan-American Speech-Language-Hearing Association. (2010). 


 guage Disorders,  36(2), 106–107. 


 Code of ethics. Retrieved from http://www.asha .org/ 


Choi, Y. H., Park, H. K., Ahn, K. H., Son, U. J., & Paik, policy


N. J. (2015). A tele-screening tool to detect aphasia 


American Speech-Language-Hearing Association. (2011). 


in patients with stroke.  Telemed E Health,  21, 729– 


 2011 SLP health care survey summary report: Num-


734. 


  66  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Code, C., & Petheram, B. (2011). Delivering for aphasia. 


 guage-Hearing Association Functional Assessment 


 International Journal of Speech Language Pathol-


 of Communication Skills for Adults (ASHA FACS). 


 ogy,  13(3), 3–10. 


Rockville, MD: American Speech-Language-Hearing 


Crary, M. A., Haak, J. J., & Malinsky, A. E. (1989). Pre-Association. 


liminary psychometric evaluation of an acute apha-


Frattali, C., Thompson, C., Holland, A., Wohl, C., Wenck, sia screening protocol.  Aphasiology 3, 611–618. 


C. J., Slater, S. C., & Paul, D. (2017).  The American Croft, W., & Cruse, D. A. (2004).  Cognitive linguistics.  


 Speech-Language-Hearing Association Functional 


Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. 


 Assessment of Communication Skills for Adults 


Davies, R. R., Dawson, K., Mioshi, E., Erzinclioglu, S., 


 (ASHA FACS) (Rev. ed.) .  Rockville, MD: American 


& Hodges, J. R. 2008). Differentiation of semantic 


Speech-Language-Hearing Association. 


dementia and Alzheimer’s disease using the Adden-


Garrett, K. L., & Beukelman, D. R. (2006).  Aphasia brooke’s Cognitive Examination (ACE).  Interna-Needs Assessment.  Retrieved from https://cehs .unl tional Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry,  23, 370–375. 


.edu/documents/secd/aac/assessment/aphasia 


Doesborgh, S. J., van de Sandt-Koenderman, W. M., 


needs.pdf


Dippel, D. W., van Harskamp, F., Koudstaal, P. J., & 


Giacino, J., & Kalmar, K. (2004). Coma Recovery Scale Visch-Brink, E. G. (2003). Linguistic deficits in the 


Revised.  The Center for Outcome Measurement in 


acute phase of stroke.  Journal of Neurology,  250, Brain Injury.  Retrieved from http://www.tbims.org/ 


977–982. 


combi/crs


Donovan, N. J., Kendall, D. L., Heaton, S. C., Kwon, S., 


Goodglass, H., Kaplan, E., & Barresi, B. (2001).  The Velozo, C. A., & Duncan, P. W. (2008). Conceptualiz-Boston Diagnostic Aphasia Exam (3rd ed.) Balti-


ing functional cognition in stroke.  Neurorehabilita-


more, MD: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. 


 tion and Neural Repair,  22, 122–135. 


Gordon, J. (1998). The fluency dimension in aphasia. 


Edmunds, L. A. (2016). A review of Verb Network 


 Aphasiology,  12(7), 673–688. 


Strengthening Treatment (VNeST): Theory, meth-


Hachioui, H. E., Visch-Brink, E. G., de Lau, L. M., van de ods, results, and clinical implications.  Topics in Lan-Sandt-Koenderman, M. W., Nouwens, F., Koudstaal, 


 guage Disorders,  24(3), 123–135. 


P. J., & Dippel, D. W. J. (2017). Screening tests for Eisdorfer, C., Cohen, D., Paveza, G. J., Ashford, J. W., 


aphasia in patients with stroke: A systematic review. 


Luchins, D. J., Gorelick, P. B., . . . Shaw, H. A. (1992). 


 Journal of Neurology,  264, 211–220. https://doi.org/ 


An empirical evaluation of the Global Deteriora-


10:1007/s00415-016-8170-8


tion Scale for staging Alzheimer’s disease.  American 


Halper, A. S., Cherney, L. R., & Burns, M. A. (2010). 


 Journal of Psychiatry,  149, 190–194. 


 RIC evaluation of communication problems in right 


Enderby, P. M., Wood, V. A., Wade, D. T., & Hewer, 


 hemisphere dysfunction-3 (RICE-3).  Chicago, IL: 


R. L. (1987). The Frenchay Aphasia Screening Test: 


Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago. 


A short, simple test for aphasia appropriate for non-


Helm-Estabrooks, N. (1992).  Aphasia diagnostic pro-


specialists.  International Rehabilitation Medicine, files.  Austin, TX: Pro-Ed. 


 8, 166–170. 


Helm-Estabrooks, N. (2017).  Cognitive Linguistic Quick Feyereisen, P., Pillon, A., & de Partz, M. (1991). On the Test-Plus. San Antonio, TX: Pearson Clinical Assessment. 


measures of fluency in the assessment of spontane-


Helm-Estabrooks, N., & Albert, M. L. (2004).  Manual ous speech production by aphasic subjects.  Apha-of aphasia and aphasia therapy (2nd ed.). Austin, siology,  5(1), 1–21. 


TX: Pro-Ed. 


Flamand-Roze, C., Falissard, B., Roze, E., Maintigneux, 


Helm-Estabrooks, N., Albert, M. L., & Nicholas, M. 


L., Beziz, J., Chacon, A., . . . Denier, C. (2011). Valida-


(2014). Manual of aphasia and aphasia therapy (3rd 


tion of a new language screening tool for patients 


ed.).  Austin, TX: Pro-Ed. 


with acute stroke: The Language Screening Test 


Helm-Estabrooks, N., Bayles, K., Ramage, A., & Bry-


(LAST).  Stroke,  42, 1224–1229. https://doi.org/10 


ant, S. (1995). Relationship between cognitive per-


.1161/STROKE AHA.110.609503


formance and aphasia severity, age, and education: 


Folstein, M. F., Folstein, S. E., & McHugh, P. R. (1975). 


Females versus males.  Brain and Language,  51(1), 


“Mini-Mental State.” A practical method for grading 


139–141. 


the cognitive state of patients for the clinician.  Jour-Helm-Estabrooks, N., Emery, P., & Albert, M. L. (1987). 


 nal of Psychiatric Research,  12(3), 189–198. 


Treatment of Aphasic Perseveration (TAP) program. 


Frattali, C., Thompson, C., Holland, A., Wohl, C., & 


A new approach to aphasia therapy.  Archives of 


Ferketic, M. (1995).  The American Speech-Lan-


 Neurology,  44(12), 1253–1255. 


 


2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  67


Helm-Estabrooks, N., Ramsberger, A. R., & Nichols, M. 


Kohn, S. (1989). The nature of the phonemic string 


(1989).  Boston Assessment of Severe Aphasia. Ded-


deficit in conduction aphasia.  Aphasiology,  3, 265– 


ham, MA: AliMed. 


285. 


Hilari, K., Byng, S., Lamping, D. L., & Smith, S. C. 


Kohn, S. (1993). Segmental disorders in aphasia. In G. 


(2003). Stroke and Aphasia Quality of Life Scale-39 


Blanken, J. Dittmann, H. Grimm, J. Marshall, & C. W. 


(SAQOL-39) evaluation of acceptability, reliability, 


Wallesch (Eds.),  Linguistic disorders and patholo-


and validity.  Stroke,  34(8), 1944–1950. 


 gies: An international handbook (pp. 197–209). 


Holland, A., Fromm, D., & Wozniak, L. (2018).  Commu-Berlin, Germany: Walter de Gruyter. 


 nication activities of daily living (3rd ed.). Austin, Laine, M., & Martin, N. (2006).  Anomia: Theoretical TX: Pro-Ed. 


 and clinical aspects.  Hove, UK: Psychology Press. 


Isaki, E. & Turkstra,L. (2000). Communication abilities LaPointe, L., & Eisenson, J. (2008).  Examining for and work re-entry following traumatic brain injury. 


 aphasia, (4th ed.). Austin, TX: Pro-Ed. 


 Brain Injury,  14, 441–453. 


LaPointe, L., & Horner, J. (1998).  Reading Compre-Johnson, A. F., & Jacobson, B. H. (2007).  Medical hension Battery for Aphasia (2nd ed.) Austin, TX: speech-language pathology: A practitioner’s guide. 


Pro-Ed. 


New York, NY: Thieme. 


Law, E., Connelly, P. J., Randall, E., McNeill, C., Fox, 


Johnson, A. F. & Jacobson, B. H. (2017).  Medical speech-H. C., Parra, M. A., . . . Starr, J. M. (2013). Does the 


 language pathology: A practitioners guide, (3rd ed.). 


Addenbrooke’s Cognitive Examination-revised add 


New York, NY: Thieme


to the Mini-Mental State Examination in established 


Julayanont, P., Tangwongchai, S., Hemrungroin, S., 


Alzheimer disease? Results from a national dementia 


Tunvirachaisakul, C., Phanthumchinda, K., Hong-


research register.  International Journal of Geriatric sawat, J., . . . Nasreddine, A. S. (2015). The Montreal 


 Psychiatry,  28(4), 351–355. https://doi.org/10.1002/


Cognitive Assessment-Basic (MoCA-B): A new mild 


gps.3828


cognitive impairment screening test for illiterate and 


Leyton, C. E., Hornberger, N. M., Mioshi, E., & Hodges, low educated elderly.  Alzheimer’s & Dementia Jour-J. R. (2010). Application of Addenbrooke’s Cognitive 


 nal,  11(7), 442–443. 


Examination to diagnosis and monitoring of pro-


Kagan, A. (2011). A-FROM in action at the Aphasia In- 


gressive primary aphasia.  Dementia and Geriatric 


stitute.  Seminars in Speech and Language,  32, 216–228. 


 Cognitive Disorders,  29, 504–509. 


Kagan, A., Simmons-Mackie, N., Rowland, A., Huij-


Lind, M., Kristoffersen, K. E., Moen, I., & Simonsen, H. 


bregts, M., Shumway, E., McEwen, S., . . . Sharp, S. 


G. (2009). Semi-spontaneous oral text production: 


(2008). Counting what counts: A framework for cap-


Measurements in clinical practice.  Clinical Linguis-


turing real-life outcomes of aphasia intervention. 


 tics & Phonetics,  23(12), 872–886. 


 Aphasiology,  22, 258–280. 


MacDonald, S. (2005).  Functional Assessment of Verbal Kagan, A., Simmons-Mackie, N., Victor, J. C., Carling-Reasoning and Executive Strategies (Adult Version). 


Rowland, A., Hoch, J., Huijbregts, M., . . . Mok, A. 


Guelph, Canada: CCD Publishing. 


(2013).  Assessment for Living with Aphasia. Toronto, MacDonald, S. (2016). Assessment of higher level 


Canada: Aphasia Institute. 


cognitive-communication functions in adolescents 


Kaplan, Goodglass, H., & Weintraub, S. (1983).  Boston with ABI: Standardization of the student version 


 Naming Test. Philadelphia, PA: Lea & Febiger. 


of the Functional Assessment of Verbal Reasoning 


Kay, J., Lesser, R., & Coltheart, R. M. (1992).  Psycholin-and Executive Strategies (S-FAVRES).  Brain injury, guistic assessments of language processing in apha-30(3), 295–310. 


 sia.  Hove, UK: Lawrence Erlbaum. 


Malone, M. L., & Loehr, J. (2013). Home health care for Kertesz, A. (2006).  Western Aphasia Battery-Revised. 


adults: A tutorial for SLPs.  Perspectives on Gerontol-San Antonio, TX: Harcourt Assessment. 


 ogy,  18(1), 7–13. 


Kim, H., Kim, J., Kim, D. Y., & Heo, J. (2011). Differ-Mancinelli, J. M., & Klein, E. R. (2014).  Acquired lan-entiating between aphasic and nonaphasic stroke 


 guage disorders: A case-based approach (2nd ed.). 


patients using semantic verbal fluency measures 


San Diego, CA: Plural Publishing. 


with administration time of 30 seconds.  European 


Marshall, R. C., & Wright, H. H. (2007). Developing a Neurology,  65, 113–117. 


clinician-friendly aphasia test.  American Journal of 


Klein, E. R., & Hahn, S. E. (2007).  Focus on function: Speech-Language Pathology,  18, 295–315. 


 Gaining essential communication (2nd ed.). Austin, McNeil, M. R., & Prescott, T. E. (1978).  The Revised TX: Pro-Ed. 


 Token Test.  Austin, TX: Pro-Ed. 


  68  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Meyers, J. E., & Meyers, K. R. (1995).  Rey Complex Rohde, A., Worrall, L.E., Godecke, E., O’Halloran, R., 


 Figure Test and Trial.  San Antonio, TX: Pearson 


Farrell, A.M., & Massey, M. (2018). Diagnosis of 


Education. 


aphasia in stroke populations: A systematic review 


Miller, R. M., & Groher, M. E. (1990).  Medical speech-of language tests.  PLoS One,  13(3), e0194143. 


 language pathology. Rockville, MD: Aspen. 


Ross-Swain, D. (1996).  Ross Information Processing 


Milman, L. H., & Holland, A. (2012).  SCCAN: Scales of Assessment (2nd ed.). Austin, TX: Pro-Ed. 


 Cognitive and Communicative Ability for Neurore-


Salis, C., & Edwards, S. (2009). Tests of syntactic com-habilitation.  Austin, TX: Pro-Ed. 


prehension in aphasia: An investigation of task 


Nakase-Thompson, R., Manning, E., Sherer, M., Yablon, 


effects.  Aphasiology,  23(10), 1215–1230. 


S. A., Gontkovsky, S. L., & Vickery, C. (2005). Brief Sandson, J., & Albert, M. L. (1984). Varieties of perse-assessment of severe language impairments: Initial 


veration.  Neuropsychologia,  22(6), 715–732. 


validation of the Mississippi aphasia screening test. 


Sapolsky, D., Domoto-Reilly, K., & Dickerson, B. C. 


 Brain Injury,  19, 685–691. 


(2014). Use of the Progressive Aphasia Severity 


Nasreddine, Z. S., Phillips, N. A., Bedirian, V., Charbon-Scale (PASS) in monitoring speech and language 


neau, S., Whitehead, V., Collin, I., . . . Chertkow, H. 


status in PPA.  Aphasiology,  28(8–9), 993–1003. 


(2005). The Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA): 


Sarno, M. T. (1969).  The Functional Communication 


A brief screening tool for mild cognitive impairment. 


 Profile. New York, NY: Institute of Rehabilitation Journal of American Geriatric Society,  53, 695–699. 


Medicine, New York University Medical. 


Nilipour, R., Pourshahbaz, A., & Ghoreyshi, Z. S. (2014). 


Shipley, K. G., & McAfee, J. G. (2004).  Assessment in Reliability and validity of bedside version of Persian 


 speech-language pathology: A resource manual (3rd WAB (P-WAB-1).  Basic Clinical Neuroscience,  5(4), ed.). Clifton Park, NY: Delmar. 


253–258. 


Spreen, O., & Benton, A. L. (1977).  Neurosensory 


Ornstein, A. F., & Manning, W. H. 1985. Self-efficacy Center Comprehensive Examination for Aphasia. 


scaling by adult stutterers.  Journal of Communica-


 Manual of directions, revised edition.  Victoria, BC: tion Disorders,  18, 313–320. 


Neuropsychology Laboratory, University of Victoria. 


Papathanasiou, I., Coppens, P., & Potagas, C. (2013). 


Spreen, O., & Risser, A. H. (Eds.). (2003).  Assessment Aphasia and related neurogenic communication 


 of aphasia.  New York, NY: Oxford University Press. 


 disorders. Burlington, MA: Jones & Bartlett Learning. 


Stark, J. (2007). A review of classical accounts of ver-


Paul, D., Frattali, C., Holland, A., Thompson, C., Caper-


bal perseveration and their modern-day relevance. 


ton, C., & Slater, S. (2004).  Quality of Communica-Aphasiology, Special Issue Verbal Perseveration, 


 tion Life Scale, Rockville, MD: American Speech-


 21(10/11), 928–959. 


Language Hearing Association. 


Stark, J. (2011). Verbal perseveration in aphasia: Defi-


Porch, B. E. (1971).  Porch Index of Communicative 


nitions and clinical phenomena from a historical 


 Ability. Palo Alto, CA: Consulting Psychologists Press. 


perspective.  Perspectives on Neurophysiology and 


Prins, R., & Bastiaanse, R. (2004). Analysing the spon-Neurogenic Speech and Language Disorders,  21(4), taneous speech of aphasic speakers.  Aphasiology, 


135. https://doi.org/10.1044/nnsld21.4.135


 18(12), 1075–1091. 


Swinburn, K., Porter, G., & Howard, D. (2005).  The Prutting, C., & Kirchner, D. (1987). A clinical appraisal Comprehensive Aphasia Test.  Hove, UK: Psychology of the pragmatic aspects of language.  Journal of 


Press. 


 Speech and Hearing Disorders,  52, 105–119. 


Thommessen, B., Thoresen, G. E., Bautz-Holter, E., & 


Psychological Assessment Resources. (2003).  The 


Laake, K. (1999). Screening by nurses for aphasia in 


 Wisconsin Card Sorting Test: Computerized Ver-


stroke — the Ullevaal Aphasia Screening (UAS) test. 


 sion 4 (WCST). Lutz, FL: Psychological Assessment Disabilities Rehabilitation,  21, 110–115. 


Resources. 


Turkstra, L. S., Coelho, C., & Ylvisaker, M. (2005). 


Randolph, C. (2012).  Repeatable Battery for the Assess-The use of standardized tests for individuals with 


 ment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS) — 


cognitive-communication disorders.  Seminars in 


 Update.  San Antonio, TX: Psychological Corporation. 


 Speech and Language,  26(4), 215–222. 


Reisberg, B., Ferris, S. H., De Leon, M. J., & Crook, T. 


West, J. F., Sands, E., & Ross-Swain, D. (1998).  Bedside (1982). The Global Deterioration Scale for assess-Evaluation Screening Test.  Austin, TX: Pro-Ed. 


ment of primary degenerative dementia.  American 


Wilson, S. M., Eriksson, D. K., Schneck, S. M., & Lucanie, Journal of Psychiatry,  139, 1136–1139. 


J. M. (2018). A quick aphasia battery for efficient, 


 


2.  AssessMent And service deLiverY in Acquired LAnguAge disorders  69


reliable, and multidimensional assessment of lan-


 disability and health.  Geneva, Switzerland: Author. 


guage function.  PLoS ONE,  13(2), e0192773. https://


Retrieved from http://www.who.int/classifications/


doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0192773


icf/training/icfbeginnersguide.pdf


Wisely, J. M. (2010). Skilled nursing facility assess-


Wright, H. H., & Capiluto, G. J. (2009). Manipulating ment tool focuses on patient communication.  ASHA 


task instructions to change narrative discourse per-


 Leader,  15(6), 8-9. 


formance.  Aphasiology,  23(10), 1295–1308. 


World Health Organization (2002).  Towards a com-


Zumbansen, A., & Thiel, A. (2014). Recent advances in mon language for functioning, disability and 


the treatment of post-stroke aphasia.  Neural Regen-


 health: International classification of functioning, 


 eration Research,  9(7), 703–706. 


AppendIX 2–A 


Functional Communication Connections octagon





VISUALLY MEDIATED 


RECEPTIVE 





EXPRESSIVE 





READIN





G & WRITING 





Respond to 


READING


letter, 


WRITING 


complete 


application, 


take test , 


use 


Write a 


Read a book, 


computer & 


story, 


magazine, 


email, write 


directions, 


letter, e-mail, 


report, 


lists, 


text, report, 


complete 


names, 


shopping list 


crossword 


resume, 


silently 


letter, 


notes, ads 


Discuss a book read, read 


Write/type lecture 


LI WRITING & 


 


notes aloud, audition 


notes, write 


ST


with script, order from 


directions, numbers, 


ENIN


catalog, call names from 


information told, jot 


ING & 


list, order from menu, 


notes from movie, 


read chart or story aloud 


write/type notes from 


G


a meeting 


 


READ SPEAKING


Speak in a 


Listen to  


monologue, 


Smart  


give oral 


Converse, 


device, T.V., 


directions, 


discuss 


lecture, 


dictate 


topics, retell 


speech, 


information, 


a story or 


radio, music, 


spell words, 


joke, 


story 


present 


comment, 


persuade, 


argue, spell, 


ask & 


SPEAKING 


answer  


LISTENING 


SPEAKING & LISTENING 


EXPRESSIVE 


RECEPTIVE 


VERBALLY MEDIATED 


The Octagon provides therapeutic activities for addressing reading, writing, listening, and speaking impairments (see Appendix E for a reproducible blank Octagon to use with a client). 


70


AppendIX 2–B 


quick reference diagnostic Chart for Acquired Language disorders The Major nonfluent Aphasias


Function


Broca’s


Transcortical Motor


global


eXpressIve LAngUAge


Automatic


variable


WnL


poor


repetition


Fair


WnL


poor


Lexical retrieval


variable


poor


poor


conversation


telegraphic


paraphasic


Limited output


pragmatics


WnL


poor


poor


grammatical structure


Agrammatic


WnL


impaired; sparse output


AUdITory CoMprehensIon


simple Yes/no 


WnL


good


Fair, with perseveration 


questions


noted


executing commands


WnL


good


variable


conversation


WnL


poor


poor


object identification


WnL


challenged by 


poor


nonfluency


object Function 


WnL


challenged by 


poor


identification


nonfluency


speeCh prodUCTIon


rate


irregular due to 


irregular due to 


sparse output prevents 


nonfluency


nonfluency


valid assessment


intelligibility


WnL


WnL


n/A


prosody


poor


poor


Absent


Articulation


impaired


WnL


sparse output prevents 


valid assessment


Fluency


nonfluent


nonfluent


nonfluent


orAL reAdIng


Word Level


poor


slow with struggle


poor


sentence Level


poor


slow with struggle


poor


paragraph Level


poor


slow with struggle


poor


reAdIng CoMprehensIon


Word Level


WnL


WnL


poor


sentence Level


WnL


WnL


poor


paragraph Level


variable


variable


poor


 continues





71


Appendix 2–B.   quick reference diagnostic chart for Acquired Language disorders   continued Function


Broca’s


Transcortical Motor


global


wrITIng


copying Words


WnL


poor


poor


copying sentences


WnL


poor


poor


Writing to dictation


Laborious with graphic 


poor


poor


paraphasias


self-generated Writing


Agrammatic; error-prone


poor


poor


speLLIng


oral


variable


paraphasic


poor


Written


success is length 


poor


poor


dependent


drAwIng



OceanofPDF.com

Acquired Language Disorders: A Case-Based Approach, Third Edition
    
    
    
    
  


  








copying


WnL


variable


poor


Functional use


WnL


WnL


poor


CognITIon


Attention to task


WnL


Attends when engaged; 


Limited; requires cues


distractible


visuospatial skills


WnL


WnL


poor


Memory


WnL


WnL


Functional for 


procedural memory


problem solving


WnL


WnL for AdL needs


poor, for language-


dependent problems


safety Awareness


WnL


WnL


patient dependent


organizational skills


WnL


WnL for AdL needs


WnL for AdL needs


BehAvIor


Level of Alertness (LoA)


WnL


patient dependent


variable


deficit Awareness


WnL


WnL


variable


emotional Lability


variable


patient dependent


not noted


Frustration


high


variable


increases with task 


complexity


personality changes


patient dependent


Apathetic, withdrawn; 


depressed; anxious


disinterested


72


The Major Fluent Aphasias


Transcortical 


Function


wernicke’s


sensory


Conduction


Anomic


eXpressIve LAngUAge


Automatic


poor


WnL


WnL


WnL


repetition


poor


good


poor


WnL


Lexical retrieval


paraphasic


poor


poor


poor


conversation


empty speech; 


paraphasic


circumlocutionary;  circumlocutionary; 


neologistic; 


literal paraphasias 


semantic 


logorrhea possible


may be noted


paraphsaias


pragmatics


poor


poor turn-taking 


WnL


WnL


skills


grammatical 


paragrammatic


WnL


WnL


structure


AUdITory CoMprehensIon


simple Yes/no 


poor


poor


WnL


WnL


questions


executing 


poor


poor


WnL


WnL


commands


conversation


poor


poor; empty; 


WnL


poor


neologistic


object 


poor


poor


poor


poor, due to 


identification


naming difficulties


object Function 


poor


poor


poor


WnL


identification


speeCh prodUCTIon


rate


WnL


WnL


WnL


WnL


intelligibility


WnL


WnL


WnL


WnL


prosody


WnL


WnL


WnL


WnL


Articulation


WnL


WnL


WnL


WnL


Fluency


Fluent


Fluent


variable, due 


impacted by word-


to attempts at 


finding difficulties


self-correction


orAL reAdIng


Word Level


poor


good


highly variable


WnL


sentence Level


poor


good


highly variable


WnL


paragraph Level


poor


good


highly variable


WnL


reAdIng CoMprehensIon


Word Level


poor


poor


Better at silent 


WnL


reading


sentence Level


poor


poor


Better at silent 


WnL


reading


paragraph Level


WnL


poor


Better at silent 


WnL


reading


 continues





73


Appendix 2–B.   quick reference diagnostic chart for Acquired Language disorders   continued Transcortical 


Function


wernicke’s


sensory


Conduction


Anomic


wrITIng


copying Words


poor; paraphasic; 


parallels 


poor


WnL


error-prone


expressive output


copying sentences


poor; paraphasic; 


parallels 


poor


WnL


error-prone


expressive output


Writing to 


poor; paraphasic; 


parallels 


poor


WnL


dictation


error-prone


expressive output


self-generated 


poor; paraphasic; 


parallels 


poor


WnL


Writing


error-prone


expressive output


speLLIng


oral


neologistic


variable


poor > 4 words


substitutions 


noted


Written


paraphasic errors


variable


poor


WnL


drAwIng


copying


variable


WnL


WnL


WnL


Functional use


poor


WnL


WnL


WnL


CognITIon


Attention to task


poor


variable


WnL


WnL


visuospatial skills


WnL


visual neglect 


WnL


WnL


possible


Memory


WnL for AdL needs


WnL for AdL needs


WnL


WnL


problem solving


poor for language 


Accurate 


WnL


WnL


dependent 


assessment 


solutions


prohibited 


by language 


impairment


safety Awareness


poor for language 


Accurate 


WnL


WnL


dependent 


assessment 


solutions


prohibited 


by language 


impairment


organizational 


WnL for AdL needs


WnL for AdL needs


WnL


WnL


skills


BehAvIor


Level of Alertness 


patient dependent


patient dependent


WnL


WnL


(LoA)


deficit Awareness


Anosagnosia


Anosagnosia


heightened


WnL


emotional Lability


patient dependent


patient dependent


not noted


WnL


Frustration


variable


variable


heightened


heightened


personality 


patient dependent


patient dependent


variable


patient dependent


changes


74


other Aphasic syndromes


subcortical 


primary 


nonthalamic


progressive 


subcortical-


(striatocapsular 


Aphasia


Function


Thalamic


lesions)1


(ppA2)


eXpressIve LAngUAge


Automatic


WnL


WnL


variable


repetition


WnL


WnL


variable


Lexical retrieval


poor


impaired


Moderately impaired; 


typically a presenting 


feature


conversation


initially mute; semantic 


Fluent; pauses and 


nonfluent


paraphasias may be 


hesitations may be 


present during recovery 


present; semantic 


phase


paraphasias in some 


cases


pragmatics


impaired due to lethargy


WnL


WnL


grammatical structure


WnL


impaired


Agrammatic


AUdITory CoMprehensIon


simple Yes/no 


WnL; moderate 


WnL; variable for 


variable


questions


impairment for complex 


complex material


material


executing commands


WnL


WnL


variable


conversation


WnL


variable, depending on 


variable


complexity


object identification


poor


impaired


variable


object Function 


poor


impaired


variable


identification


speeCh prodUCTIon


rate


WnL


May be impaired


WnL


intelligibility


WnL


variable


WnL


prosody


WnL


impaired


WnL


Articulation


WnL


impaired


WnL


Fluency


WnL


Fluent


WnL


orAL reAdIng


Word Level


impaired


variable


variable


sentence Level


impaired


variable


variable


paragraph Level


impaired


variable


variable


reAdIng CoMprehensIon


Word Level


impaired


variable


variable


sentence Level


impaired


variable


variable


paragraph Level


impaired


variable


variable


 continues





75


Appendix 2–B.   quick reference diagnostic chart for Acquired Language disorders   continued subcortical 


primary 


nonthalamic


progressive 


subcortical-


(striatocapsular 


Aphasia


Function


Thalamic


lesions)1


(ppA2)


wrITIng


copying Words


impaired


WnL


variable


copying sentences


impaired


WnL


variable


Writing to dictation


impaired


WnL


variable


self-generated Writing


impaired


WnL


variable


speLLIng


oral


impaired


variable


variable


Written


impaired


variable


variable


drAwIng


copying


WnL


variable


variable


Functional use


WnL


variable


variable


CognITIon


Attention to task


variable, due to  


variable, due to  


WnL


low-level arousal and 


low-level arousal and 


lethargy


lethargy


visuospatial skills


WnL


variable


WnL


Memory


declarative memory 


variable


WnL


impaired; procedural 


spared


problem solving


WnL for AdL needs


variable


WnL


safety Awareness


WnL for AdL needs


variable


WnL


organizational skills


WnL for AdL needs


variable


WnL


BehAvIor


Level of Alertness (LoA)


variable, due to low-


variable, due to low-


WnL


level arousal and 


level arousal and 


lethargy


lethargy


deficit Awareness


variable


not typical


present


emotional Lability


not typical


not typical


not typical


Frustration


not typical


variable


present; reactive 


depression


personality changes


Lack of motivation may 


Lack of motivation may 


not noted


be observed


be observed


1 subcortical aphasias can present with the symptomatology of any of the cortical aphasias. this is secondary to the fact that subcortical stroke typically involves the M-1 portion of the McA, which also supplies the overlying cerebral cortices. 


therefore, a subcortical ischemic event in that distribution territory can cause aphasic symptomatology consistent with any of the major aphasic syndromes. We have used the term  variable in order to convey this fact in the  Quick Reference Chart. 


2 the person with ppA can present with features of any of the aphasias, depending on the area(s) of cortical degeneration. 


therefore, we have used the term  variable to capture that variability. the symptomatology described in the quick reference chart reflects ppA up to and including the second year post onset. the patient may become more cognitively impaired as the disease progresses. 


76


right hemisphere 


Cerebral 


Function


disorder


dementia3


encephalopathies4


eXpressIve LAngUAge


Automatic


WnL


variable, based on stage 


WnL


of dementia


repetition


WnL


WnL


WnL


Lexical retrieval


WnL


impaired (noted early)


WnL


conversation


tangential/


deteriorates 


tangential output


circumlocutionary


progressively


pragmatics


impaired


WnL


poor topic maintenance 


and turn-taking


grammatical structure


WnL


WnL


WnL


AUdITory CoMprehensIon


simple Yes/no 


WnL; could be impacted 


WnL


WnL for concrete and 


questions


by attentional problems


personal questions


executing commands


WnL; could be impacted 


WnL for simple 1-step 


1-steps  commands —


by attentional problems 


commands


WnL; complex 


and distractibility


commands — impaired


understanding 


tangential and 


WnL; progressively 


variable depending 


conversation


circumlocutionary


deteriorates


on complexity of 


information


object identification


WnL


WnL for common 


WnL


objects


object Function 


WnL


WnL


WnL


identification


speeCh prodUCTIon


rate


if no accompanying 


WnL


if no accompanying 


dysarthria: WnL


dysarthria: WnL


intelligibility


if no accompanying 


WnL


if no accompanying 


dysarthria: WnL


dysarthria: WnL


prosody


if no accompanying 


WnL


if no accompanying 


dysarthria: WnL


dysarthria: WnL


Articulation


if no accompanying 


WnL


if no accompanying 


dysarthria: WnL


dysarthria: WnL


Fluency


if no accompanying 


WnL


if no accompanying 


dysarthria: WnL


dysarthria: WnL


orAL reAdIng


Word Level


WnL


WnL


WnL based on level of 


alertness (LoA)


sentence Level


WnL


variable


WnL based on level of 


alertness (LoA)


paragraph Level


WnL


variable


WnL based on level of 


alertness (LoA)


 continues





77


Appendix 2–B.   quick reference diagnostic chart for Acquired Language disorders   continued right hemisphere 


Cerebral 


Function


disorder


dementia3


encephalopathies4


reAdIng CoMprehensIon


Word Level


WnL


WnL


WnL based on level of 


alertness (LoA)


sentence Level


May be affected by 


variable, based on type 


WnL based on level of 


attentional issues and 


and stage


alertness (LoA)


distractibility


paragraph Level


May be affected by 


variable, based on type 


WnL based on level of 


attentional issues and 


and stage


alertness (LoA)


distractibility


wrITIng


copying Words


WnL


WnL


WnL


copying sentences


WnL


WnL


WnL


Writing to dictation


variable


WnL


WnL up to sentence 


level


self-generated Writing


Mimics verbal 


WnL


variable based on level 


expression


of severity


speLLIng


oral


WnL


More impaired for 


WnL for regularly 


irregularly spelled 


spelled words


words and multisyllabic 


words


Written


WnL


same as above


WnL for regularly 


spelled words


drAwIng


copying


WnL; visuospatial 


WnL


WnL


problems may affect 


performance


Functional use


WnL; visuospatial 


variable


variable


problems may affect 


performance


CognITIon


Attention to task


impaired


impaired


impaired


visuospatial skills


variable; neglect or 


impaired


variable


left inattention may be 


present


Memory


variable


impaired for episodic 


impaired


and semantic memory


problem solving


impaired


impaired


impaired


safety Awareness


impaired due to 


impaired


impaired


impulsivity


organizational skills


impaired


impaired


impaired


78


right hemisphere 


Cerebral 


Function


disorder


dementia3


encephalopathies4


BehAvIor


Level of Alertness (LoA)


WnL


Agitation noted in some 


variable; very low in 


cases


acute phase of illness; 


lethargy common


deficit Awareness


Anosagnosia


variable impairment 


impaired


based on stage


emotional Lability


not typical


not noted


impaired


Frustration


not noted


commonly noted


can be observed along 


with agitation and 


depression


personality changes


not typically associated 


Yes


May be noted


with this disorder


3 these characteristics reflect the early-middle stages of most dementias. the cognitive-linguistic characteristics of this patient type will change as the process continues to deteriorate to the end stage. 


4 performance in many tasks depends on the patient’s level of alertness and ability to focus and concentrate. Lethargy is common in these patients, especially in the acute phase of the illness. 





79






 Chapter 3


The MAjor nonFLUenT AphAsIAs


Introduction


(Barwood et al., 2012). There are two neural stimu-


lation methods currently in use with people with 


aphasia: Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimula-


In a systematic review of 115 studies that looked at 


tion (rTMS) and Anodal Transcranial Direct Current 


study design, study sample, treatment procedures, 


Stimulation (A-tDCS), which has an excitatory effect 


duration of intervention, and case outcomes regard-


and its counterpart Cathodal Transcranial Direct 


ing language rehabilitation for people with expres-


Current Stimulation (C-tDCS), which has an inhibi-


sive aphasia, 56 met criteria (Fontoura, Rodrigues, 


tory effect. 


Sá Carneiro, Monção, and Salles, 2012). These stud-


Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) is a 


ies reflect three primary lines of language rehabilita-


noninvasive procedure that creates a magnetic field 


tion for expressive aphasia identified by the World 


in a coil of wire. This is placed on the skull of the 


Health Organization (WHO). They are traditional 


subject, over the targeted brain region. This mag-


language-oriented therapy, functional/pragmatic 


netic field penetrates the skull and induces a small 


therapy, and cognitive neuropsychological therapy. 


current that is parallel to the plane of the coil. This 


Of the 56 that met criteria, we believe the studies 


field depolarizes the neuronal membranes and cre-


described in Table 3–1 below are noteworthy for 


ates action potentials in the area beneath the coil. 


their treatment outcomes and relationship to the 


In rTMS, a  series of pulses  are generated over a spe-rehabilitation approaches identified by the WHO. In 


cific period of time at specific frequencies, with low 


traditional language-oriented treatments for aphasia, 


frequencies having an inhibitory effect and higher 


the focus of treatment is on intensive auditory and 


frequencies acting as excitatory effect (Hamilton, 


visual stimulation through repetition in situational 


Chrysikou, & Coslett, 2011). This technique has 


and linguistic contexts. In functional/pragmatic 


shown promise in people with communication dis-


treatments for aphasia there is a focus on reducing 


orders. Pairing rTMS with behavioral therapy for 


interactional difficulties in one’s environment using 


anomia can improve naming in people with aphasia 


compensatory techniques to assist with activities of 


(PWA); however, the findings are not always conclu-


daily living (ADL). In cognitive neuropsychological 


sive (Hamilton et al., 2011). When it is applied to the 


treatments, the focus is on the identification of neu-


right hemisphere, it may suppress over-activation in 


ropsychological impairments and cognitive func-


the right hemispheric homologue of Broca’s area, 


tions (attention, memory, learning, etc.) impacting 


increasing activation of the left hemispheric area. 


language and their recovery for ADLs. 


Winhuisen et al. (2005) did report, however, that 


Given the numerous treatment programs and 


recruiting the right hemisphere to help with a lan-


approaches for improving speech and language in 


guage task may not always be beneficial and in some 


individuals with nonfluent aphasia (see highlighted 


cases unfavorable. Martin, Naeser, Ho, Doron, and 


treatments in this text), a more recent advancement 


Kurland (2009) conducted a study with two patients 


is the interdisciplinary use of neural stimulation 


with chronic, nonfluent aphasia using rTMS in an 





81


Table 3–1.   selected treatments From rehabilitation in Language for expressive Aphasias description of Treatment


reference


computers assisted with lexical activation through varied Adrián, gonzález, Buiza, & sage, 


cues including semantic, phonological mixed, cloze, and 


2011


written cues


improvement was noted in correct naming for nonfluent 


Fridriksson et al., 2007


aphasia with rhyming nonwords used for generating target 


words and semantic cues, including sentence completion 


and word repetitions provided. 


Audio-visual speech stimuli of a speaker’s mouth for 


Fridriksson et al., 2009


articulation of words significantly improved naming


providing phonological production and repetition of 


Kendall et al., 2008


nonwords helped with generalization to discourse


semantic training for naming, classifying, identifying 


Kiran, 2008


attributes and answering yes/no questions were found to 


be efficient for generalization to untrained items. 


improvement for chronic non-fluent aphasia was found 


cherney, 2010


using intensive treatment with orLA. 


significant improvements in narrative discourse were found thompson, den ouden, 


after training with linguistic treatment of underlying forms. 


Bonakdarpour, garibaldi, & 


parrish, 2010


syntactic complexity improved with graphic symbols  


Koul, corwin, & hayes, 2005; 


using AAc. 


Johnson, hough, King, vos, & 


Jeffs, 2008


syntax was improved by training sentences through the 


rochon, Laird, Bose, & scofield, 


use of visual stimuli (photographs) with sentence stems 


2005


provided. 


production of sentences improved for agrammatism by 


stadie et al., 2008


viewing a picture and asking the patient to describe the 


action along given written words and questions. 


verb retrieval for non-fluent aphasia improved with 


Mccann & doleman, 2006


repetitive drills and sentence completion used to name 


pictures. 


Lists of words with illustrations improved naming given 


hashimoto & Frome, 2011


semantic cues to strengthen semantic networks. 


singing helped production of sentences in some with severe straube, schulz, geipel, Mentzel, 


expressive aphasia when melody and familiar songs were 


& Mittner, 2008


used. 


conversational ability was improved with software that 


cherney, halper, & Kaye, 2011


included a virtual therapist showing precise articulatory movements in stages of dialogue. 


retelling stories with computerized sentenceshaper system Linebarger, Mccall, virata, & 


helped self-monitoring and narrative language production. 


Berndt, 2007


82


 


3.  the MAJor nonFLuent AphAsiAs  83


attempt to improve naming skills. One patient was 


used this tDCS with 10 subjects all with an anomic 


a good responder following activation and made 


aphasia. They received A-tDCS concurrently with 20 


significant gains in naming and phrase length over 


minutes of behavioral treatment for their anomia. 


treatment. At 46 months postTMS, activation contin-


His results showed that A-tDCS targeting the left 


ued and phrase length increased from three to six 


hemisphere can improve outcomes, and those who 


words. The other patient did not make significant 


benefited most recruited the left hemisphere for 


gains and was only able to produce single words. 


the speech task. The therapeutic effect persisted for 


This individual’s lesion was frontal and extended 


one week post-stimulation. The research in this area 


high and near the brain vertex with deep white 


is continuing. 


matter lesions near the left supplementary motor 


Hamilton et al. (2011) do list some caveats in 


area, and showed initial activation, but effects did 


their review. These include the following:


not persist beyond 6 months postTMS. The authors 


concluded that the site of lesion may influence an 


1.  The exact area of stimulation must be refined, 


individual’s functional magnetic resonance imag-


that is, are the correct cortical regions being 


ing (fMRI) activation pattern and TMS response. 


targeted by TMS and tDCS? 


From fMRI data, it is suggested that rTMS may help 


2.  Image-guided techniques, for example, fMRI, PET, 


restore the left hemisphere language network for 


must be used concurrently during stimulation. 


better naming and phrase length in good respond-


3. Because some results are paradoxical, inter-


ers. This method is most often used with people 


subject variability must be considered when 


who have chronic aphasia. Barwood, et al. (2012), 


planning and implementing neural stimulation 


in an open-label study, applied rTMS to modulate 


technologies. 


bilateral language networks by stimulating the right 


hemispheric homologue to Broca’s area. There were 


Another therapeutic approach for people with 


seven nonfluent aphasic participants who received 


nonfluent aphasia is SentenceShaper. Albright and 


1 Hz stimulation of rTMS for 10 days. Results indi-


Purves (2008) conducted a case study over a period 


cated significant improvements in auditory compre-


of 4 months to support narrative speech production 


hension, picture naming, and spontaneous elicited 


and everyday communication using SentenceShaper, 


speech. This improvement was sustained for up to 8 


a sentence production software program supporting 


months post rTMS treatment. The authors concluded 


those with nonfluent aphasia. SentenceShaper uses 


that rTMS appears to facilitate a positive change in 


recorded and saved spoken messages to help the 


receptive and expressive language in people with 


individual communicate his or her needs and wants. 


nonfluent aphasia. Cai-Li et al. (2014) found that 


After 12 weeks of using the program, the patient 


low-frequency rTMS had a positive effect on recov-


with nonfluent aphasia demonstrated increases in 


ery of language following stroke, with a 90% resting 


morphosyntactic complexity. However, informative-


motor threshold that targeted the triangular area of 


ness, efficiency, and narrative structure remained 


the right inferior frontal gyrus (IFG). Research in 


the same. This suggests that although language form 


this area is ongoing. 


improved, content and use remained impaired. 


A-tDCS and C-tDCS uses fMRI guided placement 


Semantic Feature Analysis (SFA), which is 


of two saline-soaked electrodes — one anodal (excit-


another treatment approach designed to facilitate 


atory) and one cathodal (inhibitory). Small electri-


naming ability, has been investigated as a therapy 


cal currents (1 to 2 mA) are passed through the 


to support individuals with nonfluent aphasia. In a 


anode, placed over the desired cortical region and 


study by Marcotte and Ansaldo (2010), event-related 


out through the cathode, and placed on the shoul-


fMRI (ER-fMRI) was reported for two patients with 


der (Fridriksson, 2011; Hamilton et al., 2011). These 


severe nonfluent aphasia: one with primary pro-


weak electrical currents stimulate the resting poten-


gressive aphasia and the other with Broca’s apha-


tials of neurons. If the anode is placed on the scalp, 


sia. Using ER-fMRI during oral picture naming, both 


the effect is excitatory; if the cathode is placed on 


patients improved in their naming performance after 


the scalp, the effect is inhibitory. Fridriksson (2011) 


brief and intensive Semantic Feature Analysis (SFA) 


  84  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch treatment. Although there were differences in their 


speech is effortful, imprecisely articulated, and their 


adaptive brain plasticity, both made similar gains in 


melodic line, or prosody, ranges from aprosodic to 


naming ability following treatment. 


normal intonation contours in short phrases (Basso, 


Cherney (2010) explored oral reading for  2003). Even though the person with a Broca’s apha-improving language outcomes in individuals with 


sia is nonfluent, they can repeat, although with vary-


chronic nonfluent aphasia using the Oral Read-


ing difficulty (Basso, 2003). The articulation deficit 


ing for Language in Aphasia (ORLA) treatment 


is generally considered by most researchers and 


approach. This utilizes the reading modality to facili-


clinicians to be apraxia of speech (Rosenbek, Kent, 


tate expressive language improvement and requires 


& LaPointe, 1989). The person with Broca’s apha-


the patient to systematically read sentences aloud. 


sia generally uses simplified grammar that does not 


To start, the clinician and patient read in unison and 


include function words or morphemes and consists 


then independently. Cherney conducted her study 


mainly of nouns. This renders their output agram-


with 25 patients with chronic nonfluent aphasia. 


matic (Basso, 2003; Davis, 2007; Thompson, 2008). 


These individuals received therapy over 24 sessions, 


In some individuals, verbal output may not extend 


one to three times weekly. Following ORLA, patients 


beyond the word level. An individual with a nonflu-


made significant improvement on Western Aphasia 


ent aphasia tends to be more fluent when producing 


Battery (WAB) aphasia quotients (AQ) from pre- to 


automatic sequences, such as counting days of the 


posttreatment times. Medium effect sizes were found 


week and months of the year. 


for all severity levels on reading subtests; medium 


Anomia is also a predominant feature of Broca’s 


effect sizes were found for the moderate aphasia 


aphasia (Basso, 2003). An interesting feature of this 


group on discourse only and for those with mild to 


impairment is that the ease of word finding is pro-


moderate aphasia on discourse and writing subtests. 


portional to verbal fluency. For example, if the indi-


It was concluded that low-intensity ORLA treatment 


vidual has limited verbal output, word finding tends 


can improve language skills in people with nonflu-


to be more impaired. In addition, auditory compre-


ent aphasia. 


hension is typically mildly or moderately impaired 


Finally, Computer Assisted Treatment (CAT) 


(Basso, 2003; Davis, 2007); however, in lengthy 


now utilizes tablet technologies (both Apple and 


paragraphs or when there are multiple speakers 


Android applications) therapeutically, with the cli-


in a conversational context, comprehension can be 


nician present and in the home, so that patients 


compromised. People with Broca’s aphasia can be 


can work more independently on their goals. Choe, 


effective communicators because the words they 


Azuma, Mathy, Liss, and Edgar (2007) studied four 


are able to produce do have semantic content, and 


patients with nonfluent aphasia. In an attempt to 


the listener can fill in the blanks based on context 


improve naming skills using a 13-week clinician 


(Davis, 2007). 


assisted treatment program, the authors found that 


The presence of motor speech disorders, that is, 


patients who were also assigned a daily home com-


apraxia of speech and dysarthria, in a person with 


puter component demonstrated significantly greater 


Broca’s aphasia is common, further complicating the 


naming ability and were able to maintain the gains 


speaker’s ability to communicate effectively. A mild 


5 weeks posttreatment than those who did not use 


unilateral upper motor neuron (UUMN) dysarthria 


the home computer and those in the control group. 


typically is observed; however, if apraxia of speech 


is also present, the person’s speech intelligibility 


may be more compromised due to the interaction of 


Broca’s Type Aphasia


these two speech disorders (Kearns, 2005). Despite 


the general constellation of features common to a 


particular type of communication disorder, the cli-


Characteristics


nician must keep in mind that patient variability 


is high in neurogenic impairments. Consequently, 


Individuals who present with a Broca’s aphasia 


level of severity is always a factor in the clinical 


are characterized by nonfluent verbal output. Their 


presentation of a patient. 


 


3.  the MAJor nonFLuent AphAsiAs  85


Broca’s aphasia was historically attributed to a 


nizational descriptions of the cytoarchitecture of the 


lesion in Broca’s area. Figure 3–1 shows Brodmann’s 


human cortex (Garey, 2006). This area is located at 


areas 44 and 45, which emerged from the brain-


the foot of the inferior frontal gyrus within the third 


mapping work of Korbinian Brodmann. Brodmann’s 


frontal convolution of the left hemisphere, which 


has been debated and refined for almost a century 


receives its blood supply from the left middle cere-


and still remains one of the most widely cited orga-


bral artery (LMCA) (Figure 3–1). However, it is now 


8


4


5


6


9


1,2,3


7


46


39


10


45 44


40


43


41


11


47


42


19


22


18 17


21


38


37


20


Areas 1, 2 & 3 – Primary Somatosensory Cortex


Area 21 – Middle Temporal Gyrus


Area 4 – Primary Motor Cortex


Area 22 – Superior Temporal Gyrus


Area 5 – Somatosensory Association Cortex


Area 37 –Fusiform Gyrus


Area 6 – Premotor and Supplementary Motor Cortex


Area 38 – Temporopolar Area


Area 7 – Somatosensory Association Cortex


Area 39 – Angular Gyrus (part of Wernicke’s area)


Area 8 – Includes Frontal Eye Fields 


Area 40 – Supramarginal Gyrus (part of Wernicke’s area)


Area 9 – Dorsolateral Prefrontal Cortex


Areas 41 & 42 – Primary and Auditory Association Cortex Area 10 – Frontopolar Area


Area 43 – Subcentral Area


Area 11 – Orbitofrontal Area





(between insula and post/precentral gyrus)


Area 17 – Primary Visual Cortex (V1)


Area 44 – Pars Opercularis (part of Broca’s area)


Area 18 – Visual Association Cortex (V2)


Area 45 – Pars Triangularis (part of Broca’s area)


Area 19 – V3


Area 46 – Dorsolateral Prefrontal Cortex


Area 20 – Inferior Temporal Gyrus


Area 47 – Inferior Prefrontal Gyrus 


Figure 3–1. Brodmann’s areas. 





86  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch recognized that damage to this area does not pro-includes the left lateral frontal suprasylvian, pre-


duce a  frank  Broca’s aphasia. Instead, the observed Rolandic region (Johnson & Jacobson, 2007). This 


deficits include a mild dysarthria with dysprosody 


lesion also extends into the periventricular white 


and a mild agraphia, that is, difficult writing. Current 


matter, some tracts of the posterior internal capsule, 


imaging techniques have revealed that a  chronic 


and often includes the inferior parietal lobe (Davis, 


Broca’s aphasia results from sizable damage to the 


2007). Notably, in the  acute phase  of the stroke, a frontal operculum and the insula. More specific, a 


much smaller infarct is needed to produce a typical 


frank Broca’s aphasia results from a large lesion and 


Broca’s aphasia. 


 Case Scenario:  Maurice


© djomas


— dreamstime.com


 History and Physical (H & P):  48 yrs, white male, right-handed, admitted via the emergency department with stroke in progress characterized by “slurred speech” 


and right upper extremity weakness. 


 Past Medical History (PMH): Insulin-Dependent Diabetes Mellitus Type II (IDDM), hypertension (HTN), morbidly obese, carotid artery occlusion bilaterally, worse on left. 


 Social History:  Married; two children (22 yrs. and 19 yrs.); insurance salesman; lives with wife. 


 Surgical History:  status post (s/p) appendectomy. 


 


3.  the MAJor nonFLuent AphAsiAs  87


A Functional Analysis of Maurice


Maurice’s expressive language skills are the most significantly impaired of his language functions (see Figure 3–2 for the Diagnostic Profile for Maurice and Figure 3–3 for his ALD Target Assessment Snapshot). Reading comprehension and auditory comprehension approximated normal; however, at more abstract paragraph levels, in both modalities, he has more difficulty comprehending than at the simple sentence level. Based on observation and family report, Maurice demonstrates a consistent ability to attend to therapeutic tasks when visual stimuli are provided. This is a good prognosticator for Maurice’s ability to participate in therapy. 


Maurice’s speech production capabilities are severely limited, and this causes him great frustration, to the point of anger. His apraxia of speech combined with his dysarthria render most of his verbal output unintelligible, despite relatively spared prosody. Therefore, speech is not Maurice’s strongest communication modality, but as he has intact visual motor skills, writing can be his primary communication modality. 


Maurice’s visuospatial skills for drawing and writing were functional, although his written letters are larger than the norm, and there are misspellings and omissions. However, it is possible that writing can be optimized for communication purposes. Also consistent with his strong visuospatial skills, Maurice is also able to follow a geographic route and has a good visual memory, which has functional value in public venues. 


Maurice’s executive functions were not significantly affected by his stroke. For example, his episodic memory for recent events in his daily life is preserved, and that allows him to remain connected to those around him. Maurice is able to solve simple problems necessary to complete his activities of daily living, for example, prepare food, request refills of his medications, and judge dangerous situations in the home and in the community. Although Maurice cannot communicate verbally in a functional way, his intact executive functions, functional auditory comprehension, and writing ability all serve to keep him woven into the social fabric. 


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity


n  What information indicates that this patient has nonfluent aphasia? 


n  This patient would most likely be seen in outpatient therapy. Knowing that the insurance carrier will give you a limited number of sessions, how would you prioritize this patient’s functional outcomes? 


n  What are the family counseling and education issues in this case, and how would you address them? 


n  How would you include the family and/or caregivers in this patient’s treatment plan? 


n  Write a SOAP note on this patient. Assume that you are seeing the patient for the first time after the evaluation session. Include three short-term therapeutic objectives in your note. 


Their 


 


r communicating 


. 


no change 


. 


. 


fo


. 


ated; 


raphasias:


. 


Pa


None


oor


Fluency:


P


wing:


onality Characteristics:


Identifying Objects & 


Functions:


WFL


ants/needs


Dra


rs


Functional 


w


:


Pe





ia. 


r planning activities of daily 


hr


le to spell orally


fo


. 


rt


sa-





ver


Oral Spelling:


Unab


iately


Executive Functions:


WFL 


living (ADLs). 


Current 


Pleasant and motiv


from premorbid state


tions noted 


 


. 





  


Pragmatic Skills


Social gestures used 


appropr


, omissions 


distor


ry


y to 


: 


y to unilateral upper


standing Con


group settings pose 


l. 


, and episodic 


le to 


ticulation:


ir to good at the word


Under


tional Speech:


WFL; 


some difficulty


ve


king memo


Ar


Substitutions


predominate; 


secondar


motor neuron (UMN) dysa


Written Spelling:


Fa


le


. 


unab





. 


and wor


sational Ability


. 


ved 


y! 


Emotional Lability:


None


rse





ry


ver


iends


nve


l. 


le to assess secondar


rity of apraxia of speech. 


Con


Agrammatic; 


co


ve


ve


memo





xity 


Oral Reading:


Unab


se


 


:


rm


r procedural, semantic


. 


fo


ite numbers in


, 


y:


Memory


Long-te


intact 


systems


l-Naming:


standing Stories & 


iate to social 


s. 


va


mine 


osod


demonstrates


le to wr


Pr


Intonation contours obser


in phrases such as oh, bo


xt; 


aragraphs:


l with 


Self-generated:


Ab


sequence to 20 and names of


family members and fr


y to sparse


Under


P


Good at paragraph le


ve


Frustration:


Appropr


conte


anxiety as task comple


increase


le to deter


xical Retrie


, 


mation. 


. 


Le


Unab


secondar


nonfluent output. 


vel Comprehension:


 


les


or


vel. 


ite numbers or 


Sentence-le


Good at paragraph le


concrete inf


wareness:


nd monosyllab


le to wr


Executing Commands:


WFL 


Visuospatial Skills:


WFL


eyo


y to apraxia of speech. 


are of his limitations


Intelligibility:


B


intelligibility is poor second-


ar


Writing to Dictation:


Unab


letters to dictation. 


Deficit A


Aw


 


Repetition Ability:


Fair at monosyllabic le


 


e. 


by


itten words 


. 


mine due to 


ed 


Yes/No Questions:


or concrete/personal 


y wr


profile for Maurice. 


iz


vel Comprehension:


attempts 


el sounds


wering 


good f


rd-le


ying:


good. 


tness:


t and cooperativ


utomatic Speech:


ry


le to cop


iting. 


ry


A


None; 


character


vow


Rate:


Cannot deter


nonfluent speech. 


Ans


Ve


content. 


Wo


Good. 


Cop


Ab


and recalls them to 


communicate in telegraphic 


wr


Attention/Concentration:


Ve


Aler


Aler


iagnostic 


 


. d


h


y


–2


vioral


Speec


uditor


re 3


Language


A


Reading


Written


Expression


Expression


Cognition


Beha


Symptoms


u


Comprehension 


igF


88


 


3.  the MAJor nonFLuent AphAsiAs  89


1 – Normal


Attention


Memory


2 – Mild-Moderate Impairment


3 – Moderate-Severe Impairment


E3


4 – Severe-Profound Impairment


Impaired Cognitive Function


R


Language


W


2


3


C2


C


Executive Functions


Visual Spatial


Figure 3–3. the target Assessment snapshot for Maurice. 


Treatment Considerations


Maurice was able to produce one-to-two syllable words that were largely unintelligible. His repetition attempts were at the two-to-three-word phrase level. He was able to comprehend language at the phrase and sentence level and 85% at the paragraph level. Therefore, treatment for Maurice must include methods that improve his expressive output. 


n  Use a rhythm or melodic-based approach (Melodic Intonation Therapy, MIT) to increase his MLU. 


n  Maurice independently began to use gestures with the nonparalyzed left hand. The Nonsymbolic Movements for Activation of Intention (NMAI) program may optimize this functional skill. 


n  Encourage Maurice to use monosyllabic and bisyllabic words as opposed to polysyllabic words to minimize the effects of apraxia of speech. 


n  Associate a drawing to represent a particular consonant’s sound. 


n  For example, “bubbles” may be drawn to represent the sound /b/, a 


“snake” to represent the sound /s/, and so forth. Then blending these sounds together with a vowel to form a CVC syllable may facilitate coarticulation. This has the potential of minimizing the effects of the apraxia of speech. 


n  Develop an alternative communication system for Maurice in the form of a picture book to augment verbal communication. This book should include pictorial representations of family members, friends, and activities of daily living (ADL). 


  90  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Therapeutic goals Using A-FroM (Kagan, 2011)


Maurice is a very sociable person and enjoys being with other people, traveling, and engaging in local activities outside of the home. 


1.  Maurice will utilize speech entrainment to facilitate functional phrases. 


2.  Maurice will participate in a reading group for people with aphasia. 


3.  Maurice will compare and contrast travel materials that he finds in the travel section online and in printed materials. 


4.  Maurice will formulate a written list of places to go and activities he would like to experience related to his travel research. 


5.  Maurice will develop functional phrases and then produce them using a scripting approach. 


Figure 3–4 provides the A-FROM domains (Kagan et al., 2008) for Maurice that were used to formulate his therapeutic goals. 


Participation in life situations = 


Interest in reviewing travel 


literature for planning


Communication 


Personal, 


& language 


identity, attitudes 


environment =


& feelings = 


Supportive family  


Living 


Sociable and 


encourages 


with 


enjoys company; 


communication; 


aphasia


enjoys planning 


limited social 


vaca


va tions


ca


an


d


int


ti


erac


d





ons due 


traveling to new 


to not being able 


places. 


to return to work 


at this time. 


Language & related impairments = 


Cannot write with dominant hand; 


agrammatic and limited verbal output


Figure 3–4. the A-FroM model for Maurice. 


 


3.  the MAJor nonFLuent AphAsiAs  91


Transcortical Motor Aphasia


cation partner to carry the burden of the commu-


nicative event. Their best performance is noted in 


short, highly structured communication scenarios, 


Characteristics


as opposed to situations characterized by many 


open-ended questions and free-flowing exchanges. 


Lichtheim (1895) referred to the aphasic distur-


They do best when the exchange requires few words 


bances due to lesions outside of the area around 


of high predictability. For example, a person with 


the Sylvian fissure as  transcortical aphasias. Trans-TMA would struggle to answer the question, “What 


cortical motor aphasia (TMA) is a nonfluent type of 


brought you to the hospital?” whereas a question 


aphasia. One of the distinguishing features of the 


such as, “How many children do you have?” would 


transcortical aphasias, motor and sensory (which 


be more easily answered. Finally, patients with TMA 


are discussed separately), is that repetition is pre-


may also present with automatic echolalia. The 


served (Webb & Adler, 2008). More often, lesions 


patient’s echolalic utterances are easily understood 


are subcortical and located anterior to the frontal 


but lack intonation and prosody. While patients with 


horn of the left lateral ventricle, part of the anterior 


TMA are generally aware of their echolalia, they 


watershed area, which prompted Benson (1979) 


are often unable to suppress it (Berthier, Dávila, & 


to name them  border zone aphasias. Other areas 


Torres-Prioris, 2018). 


implicated in TMA involve the prefrontal and pre-


The information below describes the common 


motor cortices (Damasio, 2008). The lesions causing 


features of transcortical motor aphasia as (Good-


TMA are smaller than those causing Broca’s apha-


glass & Kaplan, 1982):


sia, although there may be damage to the white 


matter below Broca’s area. It is also possible that 


n  Nonfluent language


this type of lesion may interrupt communication 


n  Repetition is intact compared with limited 


between Broca’s region and the basal ganglia and/


speech output


or the thalamus, because there are areas in these 


n  Paraphasia is evident, especially phonemic 


regions that may have premotor capabilities. The 


type


prognosis for a person with TMA is good due to the 


n  Syntax errors


spared linguistic features of this disorder (Alexander 


n Perseveration


& Schmitt, 1980). Typically, progress occurs early 


n  Difficulty initiating conversation


after onset. There are three primary patterns typi-


n  Difficulty organizing responses in 


cally seen with TMA:


conversation


n  Syntactic errors


1. Frontal lobe lesion affecting middle cerebral 


n  Confrontation naming is preserved


artery area (MCA) = motor speech deficits


n  Auditory comprehension may be excellent


2.  Frontal lobe lesion affecting anterior cerebral 


n  Articulation is fair to good, although rate 


artery area (ACA) = lack of spontaneous speech


may be slow


3. Lesion in watershed area between MCA and 


n  Repetition is normal


ACA typically due to vascular pathology (most 


n  Echolalia may be present


common)


Besides stroke, the clinician may also see fron-


The person with TMA manifests communica-


tal lobe pathology in individuals who have suffered 


tion difficulties that are most obvious at the conver-


trauma, tumor, and other progressive neuropathol-


sational level. These patients initially may present as 


ogies (Cimino-Knight, Hollingsworth, & Gonzales-


mute due to the absence of the impulse to speak. 


Rothi, 2005). Therefore, having a clear understanding 


When they do initiate, they produce syntactically 


of the relationship between lesion site and linguis-


correct utterances, but overall they have significantly 


tic function is always very helpful when confronted 


reduced verbal output. This forces their communi-


with these  border zone  disturbances. 





92  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch


 Case Scenario:  Vincent


© Jose Manuel 


gelpi 


diaz


— dreamstime.com


 History and Physical (H & P):  75-year-old, right-handed, male Caucasian, admitted to local hospital. Right hemiparesis involving the lower extremity only was evident. On examination, he ambulated well. Family brought him to the hospital describing him as “mute.” Blood pressure in the emergency department (ED) was 210/100, and heart rate was 92. He was aware of his inability to speak evidenced by his frustration and by pointing to his mouth and shaking his head in a “no” 


gesture. 


 Past Medical History (PMH): Vincent has no prior history of stroke. His PMH 


includes coronary artery disease, s/p angioplasty with stents; hyperlipidemia; left total knee replacement (TKR); seasonal allergies; obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). 


Sleep using a Klearway oral appliance to treat the OSA. 


 Social History:  One adult daughter lives nearby. Vincent lives alone in an apartment complex that has an elevator. He has many friends and was a very active and socially engaged man prior to this stroke. He was a zoology professor at the university level for 30 years before retirement at age 65. 


 Surgical History: Uvulo-palatal-pharyngoplasty (UPP) surgery for obstructive sleep apnea 10 years PTA (prior to this admission). 


A Functional Analysis of vincent


This patient has good auditory comprehension, intact word and sentence repetition, but nonfluent speech output (see Figure 3–5 for Vincent’s Diagnostic Profile and Figure 3–6 for his ALD Target Assessment Snapshot). This is complicated by his lack of volitional initiation of speech. In Vincent’s case, treatment is geared 


 


. 








needs. 





L AD


Paraphasias: Phonemic paraphasias. 








Identifying Objects &  Their Functions:  WFL


Drawing: If self-initiated, he is able to produce simple line drawings Fluency: Speech output is nonfluent;  struggles to produce utterances in response to open-ended  questions. Speech output is fluent on repetition tasks. 





:


Oral Spelling: Unable to test due to nonfluent speech. 


Executive Functions: Problem solving, safety awareness, and judgment are intact for Current Personality Characteristics: His frustration is causing anger and  social isolation. 


. 





 


, nonfluent speech 





Pragmatic Skills Understands turn-taking; maintains eye contact, uses appropriate social gestures; however limits thorough evaluation of speech acts at conversational


itten Spelling:


Understanding Conversa- tional Speech:  WFL level. 


fficult to 


Articulation: WFL


Wr Paragraphic. 














Ability: 


. 


fficult to assess due to


Emotional Lability:  None noted. 





Oral Reading: Reading aloud is di produce fluently and is slow and  labored. 


rbal output limited; 


Conversational  Ve syntactic complexity reduced in attempts at longer utterances





. 


Memory: Procedural memory is WFL; semantic memory for basic information is intact;  episodic memory di limited expression. 


Prosody: Reduced intonation contours, stress pattern altered. 


Self-generated:  Functional for name and  address, when not prompted  verbally Understanding Stories &  Paragraphs: WFL


Frustration: Demonstrates intermittent frustration with his inability  to “get it out.” 


 


:


ficulties; better with cloze


Lexical Retrieval-Naming: Confrontation naming  compromised by initiation  dif procedure. 


at paragraph level.L 


Sentence-level Comprehension: WF


areness:


Aw


in known and unknown 


suospatial Skills


Ability:


L 


Executing Commands: WFL


iting to Dictation:


Vi WFL


Intelligibility: WF contexts. 


Wr Unable to initiate writing to  dictation secondary to an  ideomotor apraxia. 


Deficit  He is aware of his  communication deficits. 


for words and 


incent. 


L 


v


Repetition  WF sentences. 


Yes/No Questions:


profile for 


for counting, L 


rd-level Comprehension:


Automatic Speech:  WF days of the week,  alphabet with a  verbal prompt to  facilitate initiation. 


Rate: Slow and halting. 


Answering  WFL


Wo WFL


Copying: WFL


Attention/Concentration:  Attends to a task when his  frustration is manageable. 


Alertness: WFL


iagnostic 


. d–5


itten


re 3


Language 


Speech


Auditory


Expression


Reading


Wr Expression


Cognition


Behavioral Symptoms


u


Comprehension 


igF





93


  94  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch 1 – Normal


Attention


Memory


2 – Mild-Moderate Impairment


3 – Moderate-Severe Impairment


4 – Severe-Profound Impairment


E


Impaired Cognitive Function


2


R1 Language


W2


C1


Executive Functions


Visual Spatial


Figure 3–6. the target Assessment snapshot for vincent. 


toward increasing volitional initiation of speech with less phonemic paraphasias. Based on observation and family report, Vincent’s speech consists mostly of immediate imitation (echolalia). Although he understands what people say to him, he is continually challenged by the frustration of not being able to respond fluently and with ease. The family may consider purchasing an augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) device for Vincent. For example, purchasing an iPad that is portable, reasonably priced, and supports applications for people with communication disorders can supplement his verbal communication. 


Cognitively, Vincent can attend to a task when his frustration level is manageable. His memory for information that is verbally or visually presented appears intact. Visuospatial skills remain good. This will help him negotiate his home and external environment safely. Furthermore, because of his intact visuospatial skills, Vincent can draw his messages if they have emotional valence. His problem-solving skills, judgment and reasoning, and safety awareness are intact for his ADL needs. For example, Vincent can be left alone at home for a limited amount of time, as he knows how to access 911 via his medical alerting system; use the phone to access family members; and prepare light meals for himself. 


Vincent only needs minimal assistance with his morning care due to his right lower extremity weakness. 


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity


1.  What features of this person’s aphasia indicate that the patient has TMA? 


2.  How do you bridge the gap between immediate repetition and delayed repetition to help the patient to build longer utterances? 


3.  Name three activities that you could use to facilitate speech initiation. Provide a rationale for each and give a scripted example of how that would happen in the therapy room. 


 


3.  the MAJor nonFLuent AphAsiAs  95


4.  What information would you provide to family members about TMA? 


5.  How would you incorporate LPAA (Life Participation Approach to Aphasia; Chapey, Duchan, Elman, Garcia, Kagan, Lyon, & Simmons-Mackie, 2008) into Vincent’s treatment to help him reengage in social activities? 


Treatment Considerations


Vincent’s treatment will focus on:


n  Optimizing initiation of speech output


n  Reducing paraphasic speech output


n  Increasing utterance length


n  Developing appropriate intonation at the sentence level. 


Vincent’s good auditory comprehension and ability to repeat accurately could be used to support verbal output. For example, in the following task, both of these preserved skills are called into play to promote speech initiation and fluency. 


The therapist can give Vincent a sentence supplemented with a visual stimulus (picture or object) to help him initiate and expand verbal output. 


SLP: 


[Shows keys to Vincent]: I will open the door with my  keys. 


What will I use to open the door? [SLP can provide a phonemic cue if needed.]


Vincent: Key. 


SLP: 


What should I do with the key? 


Vincent:  Open the door. 


This task allows the speech-language pathologist (SLP) to work not only on increasing verbal initiation and fluency but can also help with intonation. For example, the SLP can ask, “Who will open the door?” 


n  This question prompts Vincent to respond with lexical stress on the subject of the sentence in his response. 


Therapeutic goals with A-FroM (Kagan, 2011)


Vincent’s goals reflect his previous academic interests as a zoologist who reads in this topic area and still visits with colleagues with whom he worked. In addition, incorporating his vocational interests of drawing and poetry will not only keep him engaged in the treatment but will facilitate increased language function and vocational interests. 


  96  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch 1.  Vincent will participate in a Life Participation Approach to Aphasia (LPAA) conversation group in order to optimize his functional communication skills. 


2.  Vincent will use drawings of pictures of animals to facilitate word retrieval and expansion of utterances with the cloze technique. 


3.  Vincent will use Copy and Recall Treatment (CART) to facilitate reading, writing, and spelling repetition with poetry as the stimuli. 


4.  Vincent will read a poem silently and respond to questions based on the text using gestural, verbal, or drawing modalities. 


Figure 3–7 provides the A-FROM domains (Kagan et al., 2008) for Vincent that were used to formulate his therapeutic goals. 


Participation in life situations = 


Interested in animals, their habits 


and  habitats. 


Communication  


Personal, identity, 


& language 


attitudes & 


environment = 


feelings = Enjoys 


Good pragmatic 


Living 


drawing and poetry 


skills but limited 


with 


related to nature. 


ability to 


Frustration and 


participate


participat  in


in a


aphasia


a 


anger


anger due





to


limited 


conversation; 


conversational 


supportive family  


skills. 


and friends. 


Language & related impairments = 


Speech is halting with paraphasic


errors; paragraphic. 


Figure 3–7. the A-FroM model for vincent. 


 


3.  the MAJor nonFLuent AphAsiAs  97


global Aphasia


(Van Lancker & Klein, 1990); auditory recognition 


of word categories, for example, food, clothing (Mc-


Kenna & Warrington, 1978); and better comprehen-


Characteristics


sion for personally relevant information (Wallace & 


Stapleton, 1991). In the acute phase, the individual 


The pathophysiology of global aphasia is typically 


who performs better on auditory comprehension 


described as a large perisylvian lesion greater than 


measures has a more favorable prognosis. 


6 cm, and involves damage to the frontal, temporal, 


The lesions are especially noted in the pos-


and parietal lobes. The incidence of global aphasia 


terior temporal gyrus, and the infarct is attributed  


is noted to be as high as 10% to 40% of all strokes 


to abnormalities in both branches of the middle 


(Peach, 2008). Milder forms of global aphasia are 


cerebral artery (MCA), extending deep into the sub-


often referred to as mixed aphasia. The most salient 


adjacent white matter. Certain focal lesions within 


characteristic of global aphasia is that the patient is 


this damaged area can degrade the white matter 


impaired in all areas of language. They will present 


and result in a disconnection between interacting 


with deficits in comprehension and expression for 


brain regions. Possible sequelae to this discon-


syntax, semantics, and phonology. It is inconclusive 


nection are behavioral dysfunctions. According to 


whether the deficits in verbal expression are due to 


Basso and Farabola (1997), the pathophysiology 


a lack of knowledge for linguistic rules and opera-


of the stroke has a bearing on the prognosis in 


tions, that is,  linguistic competence,  or due instead global aphasia. 


to an individual’s language competence and per-


Auditory comprehension will improve more 


formance deficits (Peach, 2008). The auditory com-


than verbal expression in these patients, and 


prehension skills of individuals with global aphasia 


patients with global aphasia make the most gains 


are variable. Research shows that the individual’s 


during the first 6 months of recovery (Collins, 2004). 


auditory comprehension skills likely to be preserved 


Unfortunately, prognosis for recovery is poor, and it 


are familiar environmental sounds, for example, 


is dependent on lesion site (Figure 3–8), as well as 


a toilet flushing, a car horn, a siren, and so forth 


the size of the lesion: the larger the infarcted area, 


(Spinnler & Vignolo, 1966); names of famous people 


the worse the prognosis. Prognosis is also related 


Type


Lesion


Outcome


Large Pre-and Post-Rolandic middle 


Very poor prognosis


I. 


cerebral artery infarcts


Pre-Rolandic


Prognosis good for recovery


II. 


Subcortical


Prognosis good for recovery


III. 


Parietal


Variable; improving to Broca's or 


IV. 


Transcortical Aphasia


Double Frontal and Parietal


Variable; improving to Broca's or 


V. 


Transcortical Aphasia


Figure 3–8. Lesion type and outcome in global aphasia. 





98  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch to the presenting symptoms in these patients. For 


speech, for example, “pifa, pifa.” Although prosody 


example, not every patient with global aphasia has 


may be within normal limits in this patient popula-


an accompanying hemiparesis. If motor abilities are 


tion, the verbal output has no syntactic or semantic 


preserved, the prognosis for recovery is better. Simi-


value, and, therefore, the utterance is meaningless 


larly, if auditory comprehension and verbal expres-


(de Bleser & Poeck, 1985). People with global apha-


sion are both severely impaired, then prognosis 


sia rely most heavily on nonverbal communication 


for recovery is poorer. Of particular importance is 


for understanding the message, for example, tone 


the patient’s ability to successfully answer simple 


of voice, facial expression, and gestures (Herrmann, 


yes/no questions. The higher the accuracy of such 


Koch, Johannsen-Horbach, & Wallesch, 1989). 


responses, the better the prognosis is for recovery. 


Cognitively, the individual with global aphasia 


It is important to understand that persons with 


may demonstrate problems with abstract reason-


global aphasia are not mute. They have the ability 


ing. Research has shown that there is a correlation 


to verbalize despite the extensive lesion, but utter-


between language ability and abstract reasoning in 


ances tend to be stereotypic, and repetition is poor. 


the globally aphasic patient. For example, nonver-


People with global aphasia are typically unaware of 


bal performance on the Raven’s Colored Progressive 


their language errors. Perseverative responses fre-


Matrices (Raven, 1965) is impaired in this patient 


quently occur in both oral and written tasks and can 


population (Collins, 1986). This test requires that the 


even affect serial speech. Furthermore, people with 


patient complete a sequence of geometric shapes 


global aphasia also have difficulty monitoring their 


and colors. People with Wernicke’s aphasia and glob-


perseverations (Stark, 2018). 


ally aphasic patients both scored equally low com-


One utterance may be the extent of this per-


pared with other types of aphasic patients on pattern 


son’s speech output, for example, “Oh boy.” This 


completion. It appears that the more posterior the 


type of patient may also only produce neologistic 


lesion, the more this type of cognition is affected. 


 Case Scenario:  Elizabeth


© Artanika


— dreamstime.com


 History and Physical (H & P):  85-year-old female, right-handed, admitted via ED 


with change in mental status. A CT scan revealed a massive left-sided CVA that resulted in right-sided hemiparesis and oral pharyngeal dysphagia. 


 


3.  the MAJor nonFLuent AphAsiAs  99


 Past Medical History (PMH):  Gastrointestinal bleed, atrial fibrillation (A-fib), ane-mia, hypertension (HTN), irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), mitral valve regurgita-tion (MVR), history of gastric ulcers, and severe macular degeneration. 


 Social History:  Widowed, four children, worked as a librarian; lives alone in first floor apartment in a senior citizens complex; enjoys listening to classical music and reading world literature. 


 Surgical History:  Left total knee replacement (left TKR) A Functional Case Analysis for elizabeth


Elizabeth has severe deficits in expressive language output (see Figure 3–9 for Elizabeth’s Diagnostic Profile and Figure 3–10 for her Target Assessment Snapshot). Her utterances are meaningless and lack grammatical form. Furthermore, her ability to use the verbal modality is compromised by her apraxia of speech. 


Elizabeth relies on reading facial expressions and gestures in order to comprehend a message, so her therapist can use this as a foundation for rehabilitation. In addition, Elizabeth may be a candidate for augmentative communication system (Steele, 2006) because she can match words and pictures with fairly consistent accuracy. Elizabeth’s auditory comprehension requires intervention, so that she can answer yes/no questions and follow basic directions with more reliability. 


This is crucial for the completion of her ADLs. Even with a home health aide present, Elizabeth still needs to be able to respond to concrete questions relating to her health and basic wants and needs. Cognitively, she appears to be able to attend during certain times of the day, more often in the morning hours. 


Her memory for family members, her biographical past, and rituals of self-care appear intact. Due to her limited executive functioning and severe language disorder, Elizabeth requires maximum supervision in the home environment. 


Consequently, home care services for speech and language and other areas of need should be considered, as her social communication, communication of basic needs, and daily planning need to be addressed. 


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity


n  What information indicates that this patient has global aphasia? 


n  This patient would most likely be seen in outpatient therapy. Knowing that the insurance carrier will give you a limited number of sessions, how would you prioritize this patient’s therapy goals to achieve long-term functional outcomes? 


n  What are the family counseling and education issues in this case, and how would you address them? 


n  How would you include the family/caregivers in this patient’s treatment plan? 


 


e 


s. 


ent


le output. 


rm


 


t better bu . 


mined due to 


le speech 


eatures are 


. 


raphasias:


of intelligibck


Pa


Undeter


la


mine due to receptiv


wing:


t detailed f


e language impai


onality Characteristics:


Identifying Objects & 


Their Functions:


Mildly impaired 


with real objects


Dra


rs


Can generate gross shapes


bu


missing. 


Pe


Fluency:


Absent. 


pressiv


. 


le to assess oral spelling 


le to deter


sa-


ex


:


ver


Oral Spelling:


Unab


skills due to unintelligib


output. 


Executive Functions:


Unab


and 


Current 


Depressed and anxious


rbal ve


 


. 


lidly assess


letters or 


  


ely 


va


rmfo


y to non


standing Con


.ry


Pragmatic Skills


. 


Cannot 


s. 


ying is lik


ticulation:


oor


cr


ustration and 


y. 


: 





. 


Under


tional Speech:


P


Ar


Cannot assess 


secondar


statu


le speech output


Written Spelling:


Could not 


numbers. 


’s


tient


y to 


Emotional Lability:


Pa


due to fr


not labilit


le to 


le to assess decoding skills 


r procedural memo


sational Ability


t unab


fo


s. 


Oral Reading:


Unab


due to unintelligib


 


. 


:


x. 


ver


, bu


Con


No connected discourse


and occasional 


meaningless utterances


y:


rbal statu


Memory


Functional 


ve


osod


standing Stories & 


. 


Pr


Cannot assess secondar


non


aragraphs:


oor


Self-generated:


Attempts made


complete a word


Under


P


P


ustrated when stimuli 


Frustration:


Fr


becomes too comple


val-Naming:


wing and 


y to 


. 


vel Comprehension:


 


le 


. 


. 


xical Retrie


. 


letters or 


riab


vigation within a 


Le


va


None


. 


rm


or detailed dra


oor


fo


areness


Sentence-le


P


. 


wareness:


aw


verbal status


Executing Commands:


Mildly impaired accuracy 


for simple commands


Visuospatial Skills:


Impaired f


personal na


building. 


vels of 


Intelligibility:


Cannot assess secondar


non


Writing to Dictation:


Could not 


numbers


Deficit A


Demonstrates 


le


. 


 


elizabeth. 


Repetition Ability:


None


rms 


 


es/no 


fo


or  


better at CVC 


verely impaired 


s. 


Yes/No Questions:


y simple 


profile for 


. 


vel Comprehension:


vel. 


optimal in the 


. 


le; 


verbal. 


wering 


rd-le


ying:


. 


tness:


ning hour


utomatic Speech:


le to cop


riab


A


None


Rate:


Non


Ans


Mildly impaired  f


concrete/personal y


questions


Wo


Moderate-se


for sentences; 


word le


Cop


Ab


with the left hand. 


Attention/Concentration:


Limited and requires tactile 


cues


Aler


Va


mor


iagnostic 


 


. d


h


y


–9


vioral


Speec


uditor


re 3


Language


A


Reading


Written


Expression


Expression


Cognition


Beha


Symptoms


u


Comprehension 


igF


100


 


3.  the MAJor nonFLuent AphAsiAs  101


1 – Normal


Atten tion


E


Memory


4


2 – Mild-Moderate Impairment


3 – Moderate-Severe Impairment


4 – Severe-Profound Impairment


Impaired Cognitive Function


R


W


3


Language


4


C3


Executive  Functions


Visual   Spatial


Figure 3–10. the target Assessment snapshot for elizabeth. 


n  Write a SOAP note on this patient. Assume that you are seeing the patient for the first time after the evaluation session. Include short-term therapeutic objectives in your note. 


n  What aspect of this patient’s medical history made this patient susceptible to stroke? 


Treatment Considerations


Elizabeth demonstrates severe receptive and expressive language impairment. 


She has severe buccofacial apraxia and apraxia of speech, further complicating her functional communication abilities. Therefore, speech production is not considered a viable mode of communication at this time. Answering yes/no questions is easier for Elizabeth when they pertain to emotionally charged information, family members, recent events, and her illness. Elizabeth can recognize objects and has some residual reading comprehension for basic words when printed in large letters with accompanying realistic pictures. She can also identify one of three pictured items, and she can copy simple line drawings. 


n  To improve ability to make her needs known, a computer-based program (Steele, 2006) may be beneficial. This speech-generating device provides large icons for vocabulary that speak in a human voice. This may be used to obtain basic core vocabulary. 


n  Attempt to convey messages and make needs known by generating simple line drawings. 


n  Attempt to build upon her ability to make simple line drawings as a form of communication. 


n  Use a trace and copy word recall strategy. 


  102  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch n  Elizabeth attempts to understand speech by watching facial expressions and gestures. Therefore, optimize auditory comprehension by using facial expressions, voice, gesture, and pictures to follow basic, one-step directions. 


Therapeutic goals with A-FroM (Kagan, 2011)


Elizabeth’s goals include both alleviating her social isolation as well as directly addressing her language impairments. As a former librarian who enjoys classical music and in the past reading world literature, Elizabeth’s goals should include efforts to optimize her reading skills. She was also a socially active person and her family would like to see her connect with others. 


1.  Elizabeth will participate in a Life Participation Approach for Aphasia (LPAA) conversation group in order to optimize her functional communication skills. 


2. Elizabeth will utilize Promoting Aphasics’ Communicative Effectiveness (PACE) for the development of natural exchanges of conversation with another speaker. 


3.  Elizabeth will participate in an aphasia chorus group or singing group (duet) to improve melodic-word connections. 


4.  Elizabeth will participate in a reading group for people with aphasia to develop her social connections as well as her reading comprehension skills. 


5.  Elizabeth will utilize an augmentative/alternative communication (AAC) app, such as TACTUS Therapy for People with Aphasia to make selected needs and wants known. 


Figure 3–11 provides the A-FROM domains (Kagan et al., 2008) for Elizabeth that were used to formulate her therapeutic goals. 


 


3.  the MAJor nonFLuent AphAsiAs  103


Participation in life situations = 


Interested in classical music and 


reading world literature. 


Communication   


& language 


environment = 


Personal, identity, 


Friendly 


attitudes & 


neighbors but 


Living 


feelings = Enjoys 


interactions with 


with 


spending time with 


them are limited 


people, becomes 


by 


by th


t eir lack of 


aphasia


frustrated w


he


wh n


en 


knowledge about 


reading complex 


aphasia and how 


material. 


to communicate 


with Elizabeth. 


Language & related impairments = 


Minimal speech output; apraxia of 


speech noted; word level reading; 


writing non-functional for ADL 


needs. 


Figure 3–11. the A-FroM model for elizabeth. 


references


ties in non-fluent aphasic stroke patients after appli-


cation of rTMS: An open protocol case series.  Brain 


 Stimulation,  5(3), 274–286. 


Adrián, J. A., González, M., Buiza, J. J., & Sage, K. (2011). 


Basso, A. (2003).  Aphasia and its therapy. New York, Extending the use of Spanish computer-assisted 


NY: Oxford University Press. 


anomia rehabilitation program (CARP-2) in people 


Basso, A., & Farabola, M. (1997). Comparison of im- 


with aphasia.  Journal of Communication Disorders, provement of aphasia in three patients with lesions 


 44, 666–677. 


in anterior, posterior, and antero-posterior lan-


Albright, E., & Purves, B. (2008). Exploring Sentence-guage areas.  Neuropsychological Rehabilitation,  7, Shaper: Treatment and augmentative possibilities. 


215–230. 


 Aphasiology,  22(7–8), 741–752. 


Benson, D. F. (1979). Aphasia rehabilitation (Editorial). 


Alexander, M. P., & Schmitt, M. A. (1980). The apha-


 Archives of Neurology,  36, 187–189. 


sia syndrome of stroke in the left anterior cerebral 


Berthier, M. L., Dávila, G., & Torres-Prioris, M. J. (2018). 


artery territory.  Archives of Neurology,  37, 97–100. 


Echophenomena in aphasia: Causal mechanisms 


Barwood, C. H. S., Murdoch, B. E., Whelan, B-M., Lloyd, 


and clues for intervention. In P. Coppens & J. Pat-


D., Riek, S., O’Sullivan, J. D., . . . Wong, A. (2012). 


terson (Eds.),  Aphasia rehabilitation (pp. 143–171). 


Improved receptive and expressive language abili-


Burlington, MA: Jones & Bartlett Learning. 


  104  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Cai-Li, R., Guo-Fu, Z., Nan, X., Chun-Hui, J., Xiu-Hua, 


Fridriksson, J. (2011). Measuring and inducing brain 


Z., Jian-Feng, H., . . . De-Liang, C. (2014). Effect of 


plasticity in chronic aphasia.  Journal of Communi-


low-frequency rTMS of aphasia in stroke patients: 


 cation Disorders,  44, 557–563. 


A  meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. 


Fridriksson, J., Baker, J. M., Whiteside, J., Eoute, D., 


 PLoS One,  9(7). https://doi.org/10.1371/journal Moser, D., Vesselinov, R., & Rorden, C. (2009). Treat-


.pone .0102557


ing visual speech perception to improve speech pro-


Chapey, R., Duchan, J. F., Elman, R. J., Garcia, L. J., 


duction in nonfluent aphasia.  Stroke,  40, 853–858. 


Kagan, A., Lyon, J., & Simmons-Mackie, N. (2008). 


Fridriksson, J., Moser, D., Bonilha, L., Morrow-Odom, 


Life-participation approach to aphasia: A statement 


K. L., Shaw, H., Fridriksson, A., . . . Rorden, C. (2007). 


of values for the future. In R. Chapey (Ed.),  Language Neural correlates of phonological and semantic-intervention strategies in aphasia and related neu-


based anomia treatment in aphasia.  Neuropsycho-


 rogenic communication disorders (5th ed., pp. 403–


 logia,  45, 1812–1822. 


449). Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. 


Garey, L. J. (2006).  Brodmann’s localisation in the cere-Cherney, L. R. (2010). Oral reading for language in 


 bral cortex. New York, NY: Springer. 


aphasia: Impact of aphasia severity on cross-modal 


Goodglass, H., & Kaplan, E. (1982).  The assessment outcomes in chronic non-fluent aphasia.  Seminars 


 of aphasia and related disorders.  Philadelphia, PA: in Speech and Language,  31(1), 42–51. 


Lea & Febiger. 


Cherney, L. R., Hallper, A. S., & Kaye, R. C. (2011). 


Hamilton, R. H., Chrysikou, E. G., & Coslett, B. (2011). 


Computer-based script training for aphasia: Emerg-


Mechanisms of aphasia recovery after stroke and 


ing themes from post-treatment interview.  Journal 


the role of noninvasive brain stimulation.  Brain and 


 of Communication Disorders,  44, 493–501. 


 Language,  118, 40–50. 


Choe, Y., Azuma, T., Mathy, P., Liss, J. M., & Edgar, J. 


Hashimoto, N., & Frome, A. (2011). The use of a modi-


(2007). The effect of home computer practice on 


fied semantic features analysis approach in aphasia. 


naming in individuals with non-fluent aphasia and 


 Journal of Communication Disorders,  44, 459–469. 


verbal apraxia.  Journal of Medical Speech-Language 


Herrmann, M., Koch, U., Johannsen-Horbach, H., & 


 Pathology,  15(4), 407–421. 


Wallesch, C. W. (1989). Communicative skills in 


Cimino-Knight, A. M., Hollingsworth, A. L., & Gonzales-chronic and severe non-fluent aphasia.  Brain and 


Rothi, L. J. (2005). The transcortical aphasias. In L. L. 


 Language,  37, 339–352. 


LaPointe (Ed.),  Aphasia and related neurogenic lan-


Johnson, A. F., & Jacobson, B. H. (2007).  Medical speech guage disorders (3rd ed., pp.169–185). New York, 


 language pathology: A practitioner’s guide.  New 


NY: Thieme. 


York, NY: Thieme. 


Collins, M. (1986).  Diagnosis and treatment of global Johnson, R. K., Hough, M. S., King, K. A., Vos., P., & aphasia.  San Diego, CA: College-Hill Press. 


Jeffs, T. (2008). Functional communication in indi-


Collins, M. (2004). Global aphasia. In L. LaPointe (Ed.), viduals with chronic severe aphasia using augmen-Aphasia and related neurogenic language disorders 


tative communication.  Augmentative Alternative 


(3rd ed., pp. 186–198). New York, NY: Thieme. 


 Communication,  24, 269–280. 


Damasio, H. (2008). Neural basis of language disorders. 


Kagan, A. (2011). A-FROM in action at the Aphasia Insti-


In R. Chapey (Ed.),  Language intervention strategies 


tute.  Seminars in Speech and Language,  32, 216–228. 


 in aphasia and related neurogenic communication 


Kagan, A., Simmons-Mackie, N., Rowland, A., Huij-


 disorders (5th ed., pp. 20–41). Philadelphia, PA: Lip-bregts, M., Shumway, E., McEwen, S., Threats, T., 


pincott Williams & Wilkins. 


& Sharp, S. (2008). Counting what counts: A frame-


Davis, G. A. (2007).  Aphasiology: Disorders and clini-work for capturing real-life outcomes of aphasia 


 cal practice (2nd ed.). Boston, MA: Pearson. 


intervention.  Aphasiology,  22(3), 258–280. 


de Bleser, R., & Poeck, K. (1985). Analysis of pros-


Kearns, L. (2005). Broca’s aphasia. In L. L. LaPointe 


ody in the spontaneous speech of patients with CV 


(Ed.),  Aphasia and related neurogenic communi-


recurring utterances.  Cortex,  21, 405–416. 


 cation disorders (3rd ed., pp. 117–141). New York, Fontoura, D., Rodrigues, J., Behs de Sá Carneiro, L., 


NY: Thieme


Monção, A., & Salles, J. (2012). Rehabilitation of lan-Kendall, D. L., Rosenbek, J. C., Heilman, K. M., Conway, 


guage in expressive aphasias: A literature review. 


T., Klenberg, K., Gonzalez Rothi, L. J., & Nadeau, S. 


 Dementia e Neuropsychologia,  6, 223–235. https://


E. (2008). Phoneme-based rehabilitation of anomia 


doi.org/10.1590/S1980-57642012DN06040006


in aphasia.  Brain and Language,  105(1), 1–17. 


 


3.  the MAJor nonFLuent AphAsiAs  105


Kiran, S. (2008). Typicality of inanimate category exem-


Stadie, N., Schroder, A., Postler, J., Lorenz, A., Swoboda-plars in aphasia treatment: Further evidence for 


Moll, M., Burchert, F., & De Bleser, R. (2008). 


semantic complexity.  Journal of Speech-Language- 


Unambiguous generalization effects after treatment  


 Hearing Research,  51, 1550–1568. 


of non-canonical sentence production in German 


Koul, R., Corwin, M., & Hayes, S. (2005). Production 


agrammatism.  Brain and Language, 104(3), 211– 


of graphic symbol sentences by individuals with 


229. 


aphasia: Efficacy of a computer-based augmentative 


Stark, J. (2018). Perseveration: Clinical features and 


and alternative communication intervention.  Brain 


considerations for treatment. In P. Coppens & J. 


 and Language,  92, 58–77. 


Patterson (Eds.),  Aphasia rehabilitation (pp. 3–45). 


Lichtheim, L. (1895). On aphasia.  Brain,  7, 433–484. 


Burlington, MA: Jones & Bartlett Learning. 


Linebarger, M., McCall, D., Virata, T., & Berndt, R. S. 


Steele, R. D. (2006). AAC use and communicative 


(2007). Widening the temporal window: Processing 


improvements in chronic aphasia: Evidence com-


support in the treatment of aphasic language pro-


paring global with severe Broca’s aphasia.  AAC Per-


duction.  Brain and Language,  100, 53–68. 


 spectives (ASHA SID-12),  15(4), 18–22. 


Marcotte, K., & Ansaldo, A. I. (2010). The neural cor-Straube, T., Schulz, A., Geipel, K. Mentzel, H. J., & Milt-relates of semantic feature analysis in chronic apha-


ner, W. H. (2008). Dissociation between singing and 


sia: Discordant patterns according to the etiology. 


speaking in expressive aphasia: The role of song 


 Seminars in Speech and Language,  31(1), 52–63. 


familiarity.  Neuropsychologia,  46, 1505–1512. 


Martin, P. I., Naeser, M. A., Ho, M., Doron, K. W., & Thompson, C. K. (2008). Treatment of syntactic and 


Kurland, J. (2009). Overt naming fMRI pre and post-


morphologic deficits in agrammatic aphasia: Treat-


TMS: Two non-fluent aphasia patients, with and 


ment of the underlying forms. In R. Chapey (Ed.), 


without improved naming post-TMS.  Brain and 


 Language intervention strategies in aphasia and 


 Language,  111(1), 20–35. 


 related neurogenic communication disorders (5th 


McCann, C., & Doleman, J. (2006). Verb retrieval in 


ed., pp. 735–755). Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Wil-


non-fluent aphasia: A replication of Edwards & 


liams & Wilkins. 


Tucker.  Journal of Neurolinguistics,  24, 237–248. 


Thompson, C. K., den Ouden, D., Bonakdarpour, B., 


McKenna, P., & Warrington, E. K. (1978). Category spe-Garibaldi, K., & Parrish, T. B. (2010). Neural plas-


cific naming preservation: A single-case study.  Jour-


ticity and treatment-induced recovery of sentence 


 nal of Neurology, Neurosurgery, and Psychiatry,  41, processing in agrammatism.  Neuropsychologia,  48, 571–574. 


3211–3227. 


Peach, A. R. (2008). Global aphasia: Identification and 


Van Lancker, D., & Klein, K. (1990). Preserved recogni-management. In R. Chapey (Ed.),  Language inter-


tion of familiar personal names in global aphasia. 


 vention strategies in aphasia and related neurogenic 


 Brain and Language,  39, 511–529. 


 communication disorders (5th ed., pp. 565–594). 


Wallace, G. L., & Stapleton, J. H. (1991). Analysis of Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. 


auditory comprehension performance in individuals 


Raven, J. C. (1965).  Guide to using the colored progres-with severe aphasia.  Archives of Physical Medicine 


 sive matrices.  London, UK: H. K. Lewis. 


 and Rehabilitation,  72, 674–678. 


Rochon, E., Laird, L., Bose, A., & Scofield, J. (2005). 


Webb, W. G., & Adler, R. K. (2008).  Neurology for the Mapping therapy for sentence production impair-speech-language pathologist.  St. Louis, MO: Mosby ments in non-fluent aphasia.  Neuropsychological 


Elsevier. 


 Rehabilitation,  15, 1–36. 


Winhuisen, L., Thiel, A., Schumacher, B., Kessler, J., 


Rosenbek, J. C., Kent, D. R., & LaPointe, L. L. (1989). 


Rudoff, J., & Haupt, W. F. (2005). Role of the contra-Apraxia of speech: An overview and some perspec-


lateral inferior frontal gyrus in recovery of language 


tives. In J. C. Rosenbek, M. R. McNeil, & A. E. Aron-


function in post-stroke aphasia: A combined repeti-


son (Eds.),  Apraxia of speech (pp. 1–28). San Diego, tive transcranial magnetic stimulation and positron 


CA: College-Hill Press. 


emission tomography study.  Stroke,  36, 1759– 


Spinnler, H., & Vignolo, L. (1996). Impaired recognition 1763. 


of meaningful sounds in aphasia.  Cortex,  2, 337–348. 






 Chapter 4


The FLUenT AphAsIAs


Introduction


onset, often evolves into another type within the 


same subgroup during the acute phase of recovery. 


This change often begins between 2 to 4 weeks 


The fluent aphasias include the following subtypes: 


postonset. Cherney and Robey (2008) reported that 


Wernicke’s aphasia, transcortical sensory aphasia, 


this occurred in 60% of cases based on descriptive 


conduction aphasia, and anomic aphasia. Although 


criteria. These individuals were reclassified within 


it is important to determine if a patient is presenting 


the fluent aphasia domain and anomic aphasia was 


with a nonfluent or fluent type of aphasia, identify-


often the endpoint attained. 


ing a specific subtype is not always a simple matter. 


Work that is more recent supports the notion 


In fact, it is not uncommon for a clinician to evaluate 


that lexical retrieval difficulty is usually present in 


a patient and to discover that the patient is present-


people with a fluent aphasia (Ferguson, Evans, & 


ing with characteristics of both fluent and nonfluent 


Raymer, 2012) and that the disruption may occur in 


aspects of aphasia, which is typically a function of 


the semantic feature network, the lexical network, 


the site and extension of the lesion. 


and/or the phonological network. In a case study by 


Fluent aphasias are characterized by a lesion 


Davis, Harrington, and Baynes (2006), the authors 


posterior to the central sulcus (Rolandic fissure), 


investigated two main concerns. They questioned 


which results in well-articulated speech with little or 


if intensive therapy to decrease production errors 


no content. One commonly encounters neologistic 


(paraphasias) by eliminating oral responses would 


(jargon) output that further complicates the patient’s 


improve naming with trained items; and additionally, 


ability to convey a thought. Since self-monitoring 


if changes in naming could be correlated to changes 


skills are also poor in these patients, their ability 


in fMRI activation. After 4 weeks of intensive treat-


to self-correct their verbal output is not optimal, 


ment focusing on semantic therapy (to discourage 


if it exists at all. Auditory comprehension may be 


speech production errors such as paraphasias and 


compromised as the content of the incoming mes-


empty speech), the study participant with Wernicke’s 


sage becomes lengthy, more complex, and abstract. 


aphasia improved in his use of nouns during narra-


Finally, these patients also present with word-find-


tive speech. Rather than working directly on naming 


ing difficulties and repetition problems. All of these 


and reducing paraphasic errors, therapy included 


factors combine to create a very challenging thera-


more receptive tasks such as  sorting (categorizing peutic scenario for the speech-language pathologist 


pictures by size, color, and functional use);  semantic (SLP). However, as patients begin to spontaneously 


 judgment tasks (giving a yes or no response to ques-recover and receive appropriate treatment, they tend 


tions related to characteristics of the targets); and 


to gain greater self-awareness, thereby making ther-


 definition to picture match (pointing to one picture apy a more successful experience. There is evidence 


in a field of five that matched the verbal defini-


that the type of aphasia diagnosed at the time of 


tion provided). The goal was not to name the target 





107


  108  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch words, but to have the patient choose characteristics 


words, Ferguson et al. (2012) investigated four indi-


of the target. By inhibiting competing targets (foil 


viduals with chronic aphasia. Training consisted of 


words that were similar to the actual target word 


intention gesture, plus verbal production and panto-


such as  microscope  and  binoculars), it was specu-mime gesture training, plus verbal production using 


lated that the patient would learn to inhibit seman-


a crossover design. Training consisted of 10 sessions 


tic paraphasias. The participant in this case study 


(2 to 3 per week) followed by a 1-week intermission 


did improve on targeted items that generalized to 


and then a second training. Treatment continued 


untrained items within the same categories. Lexical 


until participants reached 90% accuracy for three 


retrieval and structure also improved, and the par-


sessions or until 10 sessions were completed. This 


ticipant used more nouns in narrative speech. Fol-


was followed by a 1-month maintenance session for 


lowing treatment, fMRI results showed an increase 


which three sets of 20 noun pictures were to be 


in activation of the left inferior frontal cortex and 


named. According to Ferguson et al. (2012), results 


increased activation in the inferior posterior tempo-


indicated that intention gesture training increased 


ral of the right hemisphere. 


verbal naming in two of the four participants (one 


Intensive therapy in people with fluent aphasias 


with conduction aphasia). Pantomime gesture train-


has also shown promise. In a meta-analysis of 10 


ing helped three patients with naming (the partici-


studies with 864 patients (Bhogal, Teasell, & Speech-


pant with conduction aphasia and two with severe 


ley, 2003), intense aphasia therapy (2 to 3 hours per 


Broca’s aphasia). Improvements were maintained 


day, 7 days a week for many months with both face-


at the 1-month follow-up visit. For example, panto-


to-face direct therapy for 1 hour daily supplemented 


mimes for words such as  hammer, Band-Aid, hat, 


by homework with the family and volunteers) 


 apple,  and  zipper,  were among many words used as showed improvement for patients who suffered a 


stimuli to train the patient in using pantomime. Pan-


stroke, even in cases with short-term treatment. 


tomime training assisted the more severely impaired 


Patients with spoken word production defi-


participants whereas intention gestures facilitated 


cits have benefited from the use of pantomime, 


those with milder word-finding impairments. Over-


iconic gestures, intention gestures, and pointing, 


all, the left-handed pantomime gestures had the 


and individuals with more severe aphasia benefited 


greatest effect on remediating word retrieval defi-


from gesture training (Raymer, Singletary, Rodri-


cits. In addition, those who made large verbal gains 


guez, Ciampitti, Heilman & Rothi, 2006; Raymer & 


no longer needed the gestural support. The authors 


Thompson, 1991; Rose, 2006). Crosson et al. (2007) 


concluded that intention and pantomime gestures 


discovered that by using a nonsymbolic, circular, 


helped all participants improve their word retrieval, 


left-handed gesture (referred to as an intention ges-


especially when the gestures were embedded into 


ture to prime initiation in the right hemisphere) 


the flow of conversation. The clinical implications 


improved word-finding in individuals with moder-


from these findings suggest that using pantomime 


ate to severe aphasia. Patients with fluent aphasia 


and intention gestures are valuable approaches for 


are unable to monitor their verbal output effectively 


facilitating functional communication. 


enough so that conversation becomes riddled with 


obstacles to mutual understanding and discourse. 


However, both communication partners will benefit 


wernicke’s Type Aphasia


from using gestures and pantomime to optimize the 


transmission of the intended message. 


There have been concerns with both intention 


Characteristics


gestures and pantomimed gestures. Intention ges-


tures require a meaningless motion without content, 


Carl Wernicke described the language disorder 


and pantomime gestures have been found to lack 


now bearing his name in 1908. Wernicke’s apha-


generalizability in conversation. To determine car-


sia is also referred to as  receptive aphasia, sensory ryover effects using these procedures for untrained 


 aphasia,  and  posterior aphasia. The lesion produc-


 


4.  the FLuent AphAsiAs  109


ing Wernicke’s aphasia is at the anatomic intersec-


large network that includes the temporal, parietal, 


tion for all incoming auditory and visual information 


and frontal areas (Binder, & Desai, 2011; Fernandino 


(Figure 4–1). 


et al., 2016). The idea that a dedicated a more dis-


Blood supply to this area is via the inferior divi-


crete speech comprehension center of the brain is 


sion of the left MCA (for middle cerebral artery). Wer-


no longer universally held (Binder, 2017). 


nicke’s aphasia results from a lesion in the posterior 


There are subtypes in the presentation of a Wer-


third of the superior temporal gyrus; therefore, read-


nicke’s aphasia. One subtype is primarily due to tem-


ing, writing, repetition, and other language functions 


poral lesions and it produces word deafness and less 


are often impaired (Marshall, 2001, p. 435). However, 


impaired reading skills. Auditory comprehension for 


the classical cortical region known as “Wernicke’s 


words in context is better than words in isolation. 


area” (posterior superior temporal gyrus and adjacent 


The second subtype results from a more posterior 


supramarginal gyrus) is thought to be involved in 


lesion of the temporal gyrus and this affects the 


phonological representations before speech is pro-


visual connections to the comprehension networks. 


duced and not in speech comprehension (Binder, 


As a consequence, reading comprehension is more 


2017). In a meta-analysis of fMRI studies, the local-


impaired, but oral reading tends to be intact. These 


ization for Wernicke’s area was further refined. The 


patients will have difficulty recognizing letters by 


findings suggested that the classical Wernicke’s area 


name and difficultly associating written words with 


is anterior to the posterior superior temporal gyrus 


their spoken counterparts. Their writing is character-


for speech perception but still within the auditory 


ized by paragraphic jargon, mimicking their neolo-


cortex (DeWitt & Rauschecker, 2012). 


gistic speech, and their spelling is severely impaired. 


The advances and refinements in neuroimag-


Although there is variation in clinical presentation 


ing and the interpretation of that imaging data have 


as noted above, a hallmark of Wernicke’s aphasia is 


provided new localization information. For example, 


a significant auditory comprehension problem with 


more recent neuroimaging studies also indicate that 


poor self-monitoring. Paraphasic speech is common 


speech comprehension does not occur in a “compre-


and typically goes unnoticed by the speaker. The 


hension center” in the brain, but occurs through a 


speech is effortless and melodic; however, there are 


verbal (semantic) and literal (phonemic) parapha-


sias, and in more severe cases neologisms are used, 


all of which go unnoticed due to poor self-monitor-


Central sulcus


ing skills. As a result, the person with Wernicke’s 


aphasia has speech output with very low informa-


Motor cortex


Frontal


F


tional content. Their articulation is unimpaired; 


Par


Pa ietal


Broca’s area


however, they demonstrate poor word choice and 


produce paragrammatic sentences, that is, they omit 


Occipital


grammatical morphemes. Their self-initiated output 


Temporal


T


tends to be more contextually appropriate than 


Auditory cortex


communication in dyadic discourse. This is due to 


their problems in the comprehension of the com-


municative partner’s speech. These individual’s may 


Wernicke’s area


also demonstrate a press for speech, or logorrhea. 


Body effects, such as hemiparesis are not common 


in this patient population because the lesion is pos-


terior to motor functions mediated in the frontal 


lobes. In comparison with the other fluent aphasias, 


Wernicke’s is the most severe and has the poorest 


prognosis. Caspari (2005) reports that one marker  


Figure 4–1.   Wernicke’s area. 


of their prognosis for recovery is based on their 


  110  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch auditory comprehension for single words. These 


having a notebook and pen readily available. To 


patients can also demonstrate paranoid tenden-


facilitate communication, some general suggested 


cies in addition to a general lack of awareness of 


strategies for working with patients with a more 


their language difficulties. They can be resistant to 


severe fluent aphasia are included below:


therapy because they do not understand its value. 


Therefore, two primary goals with these patients are 


n  Determine if the patient can read at any 


to improve auditory comprehension and increase 


level. If so, pair auditory comprehension 


their ability to self-monitor their errors (Brookshire, 


activities with written text to follow simple 


1997). 


directions, answer yes or no questions, 


According to the Aphasia Center (http://www 


and identify objects and pictures. 


.theaphasiacenter.com), individuals with Wernicke’s 


n  Engage the patient in item or picture 


aphasia can be unsuccessful when direct treatment 


identification activities and follow 


is initially provided. This is partially due to their 


verbal commands of increasing length 


phonological difficulties, paraphasias, and neolo-


and complexity. Use prepositions for 


gisms. These patients typically do not attempt to 


placement of objects (under, on, before, 


repair their communication breakdowns and show 


after, etc.) and increase understanding of 


little response to listener cues. They often need help 


object functions (which one do we use to 


with understanding what others say. Using written 


. . . ) to add to the repertoire for auditory 


words, gestures, and intonation can initially assist 


comprehension and direction following. 


with communication. An indirect type of treatment, 


n  Use communication boards with 


 contextual therapy,  can also be helpful as it is less pictures and try out the various Apps 


concerned with naming pictures and responding to 


on iPad devices (or the like) to improve 


questions than it is with helping the patient to be 


comprehension and communication in a 


understood in the context of the interaction. The 


variety of settings. 


patient may be asked if he or she is talking about 


n  In addition, the SLP may decide to use a 


something (in particular), and once identified, no 


readily visible gestural “STOP” signal to 


attempt would be made to have the patient repeat it. 


help the person with fluent aphasia know 


The patient is encouraged to write letters and words, 


that it is time to stop talking and to listen. 








4.  the FLuent AphAsiAs  111


 Case Scenario:  Mildred


© noriko 


cooper


— dreamstime.com


 History and Physical (H & P):  68-year-old female, right-handed, found down by neighbor who called 911; alert but aphasic in emergency department (ED); preliminary CT scan revealed a CVA in the left MCA distribution territory posterior to the central sulcus and superior to the Sylvian fissure. There was no observable hemiparesis. 


 Past Medical History (PMH):  Insulin Dependent Diabetes Mellitus (IDDM); hypertension; hyperlipidemia; A-fib; COPD; depression. 


 Social History:   Widowed, lives alone; sedentary lifestyle; no family in area. Enjoys jigsaw puzzles and cooking. 


 Surgical History:   Cholecystectomy, appendectomy; hysterectomy. 


A Functional Analysis of Mildred’s wernicke’s Aphasia


Mildred’s receptive language skills are significantly impaired. Figure 4–2 shows Mildred’s Diagnostic Profile and Figure 4–3 provides her Target Assessment Snapshot. As a consequence, she is unable to participate as a conversational partner for two primary reasons: (1) her logorrhea is unchecked due to her inability to self-monitor; and (2) her output is devoid of content. Therefore, her functional expressive abilities are limited. Mildred is unable to spell, so writing to communicate her needs is not possible. However, she has adequate graphomotor skills and visual perceptual skills for gross drawings, usable for communication purposes. 


Cognitively, Mildred can attend to a task if it interests her and does not frustrate her. However, she may require tactile, verbal, and/or visual prompts for sustained attention. She wants to successfully convey messages and resorts to drawing, if prompted, when her communication partner conveys a lack of 


, 





r 


. 


fo


id of 


 


vo





, and tense 


e. 


ry


t de


r communicating fo . 


raphasias:


bu


equent semantic


, ang


Pa


Fr


phonemic paraphasias 


and neologisms


; “press of speech” 


numerous parapha-


poses intact. 


ed to point an object from 


wing:


onality Characteristics:


:


s. 


em solving/judgment 


rs





Identifying Objects & 


Their Functions:


Moderately impaired when 


ask


a field of thre


ty pur


Fluency:


Dra


Functional 


ADL needs


Logorrheic 


content


noted; 


sia


bl


fe


Pe


les; 


Executive Functions:


Pro


sa


ru


 


r 


rely impaired. 


. 


iate social 


fo


ve


areness of 


. 


Oral Spelling:


Se


Current 


Depressed, anxious


which is dissimilar to her premorbid 


state


aw


-taking 


oor 


rn


Pragmatic Skills





P


tu


inappropr


language


  





: 





r ADL fo  semantic and 


standing 


sational Speech:


rely impaired with an 


. 


itten words 


; press 


ts and their 


, etc. 


ver


rely impaired. 


ve


es


ticulation:


par


ve


Under


Con


Se


inability to self-monitor 


errors


Ar


WFL


Written Spelling:


Se


. 


. 


sational Ability


prefix


is a strength; 


paragrammatic 


s, 





appears intact 


ry


Emotional Lability:


None


ver


id of content


er


s 


en counter



OceanofPDF.com

Acquired Language Disorders: A Case-Based Approach, Third Edition
    
    
    
    
  


  









. 


ry


difficult to assess due to


vo


rk


rn


. 


ry


Con


De


of speech with numerous 


paraphasias and neolo-


gisms; 


with omissions of tense 


ma


t 


. 


bu





. 


Oral Reading:


Difficulty associating wr


with spok


meanings


 


:


; visual memo


rbally


standing Stories & 


ve


rely impaired. 


y:


ragraphs:


ve


ms are inconsistently 


fluent paragraphic 


Memory


Procedural memo


needs


episodic memo


comprehension deficits


l-Naming:


areness of errors


mal intonation patte


Under


Pa


Se


or


va


osod


ites with ease 


aw


ustrated with


Pr


Nor


noted. 


vel. 


Self-generated:


Wr


letterf


correct; 


jargon similar to speech with


no 


Frustration:


More fr


others causing anger 


and lashing out 


ment at 


xical Retrie


. 


Le


Circumlocutions and 


semantic paraphasias and 


neologisms noted on 


confrontation naming tasks


vel Comprehension:


 


. 


xts


iting to 


. 


poor 


ing of output. 


Executing Commands:


Moderate impair


the simple one-step le


oor


Sentence-le


P


ing wr


or ADL needs


wareness:


. 


areness of deficits 


or words and 


Visuospatial Skills:


WFL f


aw


ed. 


Intelligibility:


WFL in all conte


Writing to Dictation:


Breaks in the words are 


noted dur


dictation. 


Deficit A


No 


(anosagnosia); 


self-monitor


oor f


Repetition Ability:


P


sentences


. Echolalia is 


 


w. 


wer concrete 


 


le to read 


ration 


erbal and/or 


ve


sound-symbol 


unab


, v


or sustained 


vel. 


Yes/No Questions:


ustration is lo


profile for Mildr


perse


xia; 


es/no questions


raphasias noted 


vel Comprehension:


t in the AM hours 


en interest. 


, tactile


. Pa


wering 


rd-le


vere ale


ying:


tness:


utomatic Speech:


oor


A


P


in a counting sequence 


from 1-20; 


noted after the number 5. 


Rate:


WFL


Ans


Moderate ability to ans


questions and significant difficulty with 


abstract y


present. 


Wo


Se


disassociation; 


at the word le


Cop


WFL giv


Attention/Concentration:


Requires


visual prompts f


attention. 


Aler


More aler


and when fr


iagnostic 


 


.  d


h


y


–2


vioral


Speec


uditor


re 4


Language


A


Reading


Written


Expression


Expression


Cognition


Beha


Symptoms


u


Comprehension 


igF


112


 


4.  the FLuent AphAsiAs  113


1 – Normal


Atten tion


Memory


2 – Mild-Moderate Impairment


3 – Moderate-Severe Impairment


4 – Severe-Profound Impairment


E


Impaired Cognitive Function


2


R3


Language


W2


C3


Executive Functions


Visual Spatial


Figure 4–3.   target Assessment snapshot for Mildred. 


comprehension. Mildred’s auditory-verbal memory span is reduced; however, her visual memory is a strength. Mildred can solve problems through action, not verbally; for example, she can demonstrate a solution but is unable to convey it verbally due to her severely paraphasic output. For example, Mildred is able to recognize that a spilled liquid on the floor is to be avoided, so she walks around it. However, when she is asked to explain the solution, she points to the spill and says, “No, no, no watch out!” Her visuospatial skills for her gross drawings are functional, again, making this her strongest communication modality. An example of this is observed when Mildred wants something to drink and draws a crude representation of a cup while simultaneously saying, “It’s a, I want it, it’s a time, I want it a picka micka.” 


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity


n  What information indicates that this is a person with Wernicke’s aphasia? 


n  How would this patient’s  press for speech  impact the patient’s communicative effectiveness? 


n  What are the family counseling and education issues in this case, and how would you address them? 


n  What are the pros and cons of encouraging the use of an AAC device in this case? 


n  Write a SOAP note on this patient. Assume that you are seeing the patient for the first time after the evaluation session. Include three short-term therapeutic objectives in your note. 


n  Discuss the impact of this patient’s depression on the patient’s outcome for functional communication. 


  114  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Treatment Considerations


The most important aspects of Mildred’s treatment plan will include those that: n  Optimize her auditory comprehension so that she can participate, at the most basic level, in the social context around her. 


n  Give her a functional and efficacious means to communicate her wants and needs. 


n  Develop the strengths that she does have to facilitate both the receptive and expressive goals mentioned above. 


Some general therapeutic objectives and techniques applicable to Mildred’s profile include:


n  Establish her ability to execute simple one-step commands by pairing speech with gestures and picture cues to augment understanding. This may help her caregivers in better meeting her ADL needs. 


n  Improve her ability to respond to simple, concrete, and personal yes or no questions to help her caregivers provide for her basic needs. 


n  Train Mildred to recognize the “STOP” hand gesture in order to facilitate a decrease in her press of speech. As a consequence, she may be able to process more effectively. 


n  Optimize and facilitate Mildred’s drawing skills so that she can supplement her verbal output with pictorial representations of her message. This can reduce her frustration and anxiety around the issue of not being understood by her communication partner. 


Therapeutic goals Using A-FroM (Kagan, 2011)


Mildred’s goals must focus on her personal safety, communicating her basic wants and needs, and reducing social isolation. Premorbidly, Mildred preferred to spend much of her time alone, watching TV, and taking care of her cats. Mildred enjoyed assembling jigsaw puzzles. She was also a gourmet cook. 


1.  Mildred will participate in a conversation group for people with aphasia to increase socialization. 


2.  Mildred will access an AAC device with icons in a reduced visual field and spoken output to express her daily needs and any emergencies. 


3.  Mildred will utilize a picture-based recipe during cotreatment with OT, building her skills and personal interests around food preparation, as well as facilitating lexical retrieval. 


4.  Mildred will use a drawing program to make her basic needs and wants known to a communication partner. 


Figure 4–4 provides the A-FROM domains (Kagan et al., 2008) for Mildred that were used to formulate her therapeutic goals. 


 


4.  the FLuent AphAsiAs  115


Participation in life situations = 


Interested in jigsaw puzzles, gourmet 


cooking, and her cats. 


Communication  


& language 


environment = 


Limited number of 


people in her 


Living 


Personal, identity, 


social netword


attitudes & feelings = 


because Mildred 


with 


Depressed, angry, 


generally prefers 


aphasia


tense; diss


; 


imilar to 


to spend time


time 


premorbid status. 


alone. Picture-


based AAC device 


to support 


communication of 


wants and needs. 


Language & related impairments = 


Conversation devoid of content, jargon, 


auditory comprehension severely impaired, 


reading and writing nonfunctional for ADL 


needs. 


Figure 4–4.   A-FroM model for Mildred. 


Transcortical sensory Aphasia


TSA is characterized by fluent, well-articulated 


speech, with frequent neologisms and paraphasias, 


and discourse tends to be incoherent with numer-


Characteristics


ous circumlocutions. These patients typically have 


a poor sense of the extent of their impairment. Peo-


Transcortical sensory aphasia (TSA) is a rare form 


ple with TSA have a more favorable communica-


of fluent aphasia. There is limited research about 


tion prognosis than those with Wernicke’s aphasia, 


this form of aphasia in the rehabilitation literature. 


which has a similar language profile. 


The neuroanatomical substrate for TSA is variable. 


Individuals with TSA can repeat what is said to 


It is believed to result from vascular insufficiency in 


them by relying on the phonological system but they 


the left MCA watershed area, that is, at the ends of 


do not understand what is being said. It is believed 


the cerebral arteries. Wernicke’s area, Broca’s area, 


that large lesions in the left inferolateral temporal 


and the arcuate fasciculus remain intact but the tis-


lobe and angular gyrus are responsible while the 


sue surrounding them is infarcted. Left frontal lobe 


superior temporal gyrus and supramarginal gyrus 


lesions can also produce TSA (Sethi, Burke, Torgov-


are spared (Rapcsak & Rubens, 1994). For example, 


nick, & Arsura, 2007). 


the individual’s performance improves on verbal 





116  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch repetition tasks because the arcuate fasciculus remains 


often a concomitant feature of TSA. This is mani-


intact. Auditory comprehension deficits vary in mag-


fested as the inability to activate the semantic system 


nitude, although most patients have severely limited 


for word output and the comprehension of meaning. 


language comprehension. Echolalia is often noted 


As a consequence, coherent discourse and effective 


and may deceive the listener into believing that the 


propositional speech are compromised. 


patient is responding somewhat appropriately. Word 


In the TSA patient, repetition for words is usu-


finding difficulties are common, and these patients 


ally easier than it is for sentences. Although they 


tend to use many ready-made expressions, such as, 


may be able to repeat the name of a common object, 


“OK,” “Ya know,” “Oh, boy!” and so forth. Confron-


they are unable to name objects when they are seen 


tation naming is often impaired with the patient 


or felt. They also have difficulty pointing to objects 


giving meaningless responses (Goodglass & Kaplan, 


that are named for them. An individual presenting 


2001). In summary, the most salient characteristics 


with TSA may have significant writing errors. These 


of TSA are intact repetition with limited comprehen-


errors are characterized by the regularization of 


sion and reduced propositional speech. 


irregularly spelled words, that is, the patient may 


Interestingly, patients with early Alzheimer’s 


write the word ignoring spelling rules. For example, 


dementia may present with symptoms similar to TSA 


“face” may be written as “fas.” A more positive fea-


as well as patients with vascular lesions of the left 


ture of their clinical presentation is that they can 


thalamic nuclei (Crosson, 1992), which reflects the 


translate a spoken sound to a written letter. This 


variability of the neuroanatomical features of this 


can be helpful for treatment because it facilitates 


disorder. Left posterior temporal-parietal-occipital 


communication using the graphic modality despite 


and thalamic areas are important networks seman-


spelling errors. Therefore, any attempts to improve 


tic knowledge, and these areas may be damaged in 


verbal output in therapy should utilize common 


individuals with TSA. Thus, semantic dysfunction is 


words rather than abstract words and concepts. 


 Case Scenario:  John


diego 


vito 


cervo


— dreamstime.com


 


4.  the FLuent AphAsiAs  117


 History and Physical (H & P):   75-year-old, right-handed, African-American male, admitted to a local psychiatric hospital. Hemiparesis was evident and the family noted that he had some sensory changes on the right side. On examination, he ambulated with maximum assistance. Family brought him to the hospital with echolalia and speaking in nonsense syllables that “sounded like foreign words.” 


Blood pressure and heart rate were within normal limits for his age. He was unaware of his speech difficulty. 


 Past Medical History (PMH):   The family reported the possibility of vascular dementia, and this was confirmed by the primary care physician via a telephone call from the ED. 


 Social History:   Widowed, one adult daughter who lives nearby. John lives alone in an apartment complex that has an elevator. He has a few close friends in the complex. 


 Surgical History:   Hernia surgery 5 years ago for inguinal tears. Cataract surgery was recently completed successfully in his left eye. The right eye requires cata-ract surgery. 


A Functional Analysis of john’s TsA


John’s receptive language skills are the most impaired. Figure 4–5 shows John’s Diagnostic Profile and Figure 4–6 shows his ALD Target Assessment Snapshot. 


Notice the similarities between John’s TSA and Mildred’s Wernicke’s aphasias in this domain. Like Mildred, John was unable to effectively participate in any conversational exchanges because he was unable to self-monitor his speech errors and produced empty speech. Unlike Mildred, John was echolalic, which further complicated conversational success. 


Expressively, John demonstrated normal syntax, but because of his word retrieval problems and paraphasias, his speech was empty of meaning. However, his automatic speech and repetition remained largely intact and would be important to consider in treatment planning. He was unable to use writing as a communication modality. He could recognize pictures. Therefore, creating an alternative means of communication for John using a portable picture book would be an efficacious method for augmenting his communication needs. 


Initially, John could benefit from starting with rote, automatic information, for example, days of the week, months of the year, numbers, and so forth. 


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity


n  How do you intend to establish a core vocabulary with John? 


n  What will you use to support his acquisition and comprehension of words? 


, 


Their 


our or 


. 


 


raphasias:


, CVC words 


. 


Pa


Occasional neologisms


circumlocutions and 


paraphasias (especially 


semantic paraphasias) 


are present. 


ecute simple line 


wing:


ex


oor in a field of f


wings


onality Characteristics:


:


Identifying Objects & 


Functions:


P


more objects


Dra


rs


Can 


dra


mics 


Fluency:


WFL


be assessed. 


Pe


ustrated, confused about his 


; topic 


WFL. 


Executive Functions:


To


fr


oxe


sa-


y, 


pr


e contact 


le to spell simple


ey


ver


l. 


Oral Spelling:


Ab


aloud. 


ly 


Current 


Angr


condition. 


-taking skills 


initiating 


ve


rn


WFL; 


 


Pragmatic Skills


Tu


are functional


maintenance is 


impaired; 


is 


WFL; 





  


r regular


s. 


: 








l, 





ve


l fo


standing Con


ve


oor comprehension skills 


. 


wer 


ticulation:


Under


tional Speech:


P


at the discourse le


Written Spelling:


Spelling is functional at the 


CVC le


spelled word


. 


Ar


WFL


cilitate oralfa


; running 


sational Ability


. 


Emotional Lability:


None noted. 


ver





Con


Mild echolalia present in


attempt to ans


questions


speech can be empty of


meaning in long 


monologues





Oral Reading:


Spells aloud to 


reading at the CVC word le


with minimal success


 


:


., 


mittent 


y”) 


standing Stories & 


. 


be assessed. 


y:


ythm, and intonation 


ragraphs:


ustration, 


ite words only with


Memory


To


l-Naming:


, rh


WFL. 


oor


Under


Pa


P


va


“that a bo


osod


., 


. 


Pr


Rate


were 


Self-generated:


Can wr


occasional paraphasic errors


itten 


iting 





Frustration:


Demonstrates inter


anger and fr


especially when others do 


not seem to understand him. 


. Uses stereotypical 


xical RetrieLe Confrontation naming is  poor phrases (i.e and nonspecific words (i.e “uh, um”) as fillers and  substitutions mance; 


vel Comprehension:


verely impaired. 


 


or


r, accuracy 


xt. 


ve


ver 


. 


or reading and wr


we


we


oor perf


Executing Commands:


P


ho


increases with visual 


cues


ho


Sentence-le


Comprehension of wr


language se


wareness:


areness of deficits 


vels; 


or 


iting words and 


aw


s. 


Visuospatial Skills:


Adequate f


with limited te


Intelligibility:


WFL


es/no 


Writing to Dictation:


Wr


sentences to dictation is 


mildly impaired. 


Deficit A


No 


(anosagnosia). 


Repetition Ability:


WFL at word and 


phrase le


difficulty with longer 


sentences and abstract 


concept


 





mance noted f


, 


 


ys 


y 


y and 


or


. 


. 


ics


ening. 


. 


. 


Yes/No Questions:


ev


profile for John. 


poor perf


vel Comprehension:


ly-spelled CVC words 


or counting, da


or concrete and personal y


le with more confusion 


ers and lyr


wering 


rd-le


le to match simple


ying:


tness:


utomatic Speech:


le to repeat length


ay


ries with time of da


riab


A


WFL f


of the week, alphabet. 


Ab


pr


Rate:


WFL


Ans


WFL f


questions; 


abstract questions


Wo


Ab


regular


with pictures


Cop


WFL


Attention/Concentration:


Va


medical status


Aler


Va


noted in the 


iagnostic 


 


d


h


y


–5. 


vioral


 4


Speec


uditor


re


Language


A


Reading


Written


Expression


Expression


Cognition


Beha


Symptoms


Comprehension 


iguF


118


 


4.  the FLuent AphAsiAs  119


1 – Normal


Atten tion


Memory


2 – Mild-Moderate Impairment


3 – Moderate-Severe Impairment


4 – Severe-Profound Impairment


E


Impaired Cognitive Function


2


R


W


3


Language


2


C3


Executive Functions


Visual Spatial


Figure 4–6.   target Assessment snapshot for John. 


n  Which of John’s strengths can you use to promote use of a core vocabulary? 


n  How will you advance John from the word level to the sentence level, receptively and expressively? 


n  John produces long paraphasic utterances that compromise his intended meaning. How will you facilitate the production of short, meaningful utterances so that John can become a functional communicator of his wants and needs? 


n  Do you view John’s echolalia as a receptive or expressive deficit? 


Explain. 


Treatment Considerations


Persons with TSA tend to improve with repetition tasks. The list below will assist in determining how to use John’s intact repetition therapeutically. Based on your findings, a treatment plan using repetition combined with another modality, at an appropriate level, may be developed. 


n  Compare repetition for single words versus sentences. 


n  Compare repetition for real versus nonwords. 


n  Compare repetition of common versus abstract words. 


Some general therapeutic techniques applicable to John’s deficit profile include: n  Pairing auditory input with another modality, typically visual support using pictures and words; 


  120  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch n  Reading aloud at the word level with pictured and written support (copying may support communication as another modality); 


n  Providing visual support via pictures and matching that to written and verbally presented sentences for reducing paraphasic errors; n  Using a verbal sequencing task (picture sequence cards) to facilitate cohesive discourse; 


n  Based on John’s ADL needs, build a core vocabulary for improving auditory comprehension and facilitating appropriate word use in functional contexts. 


Therapeutic goals Using A-FroM (Kagan, 2011)


John’s goals will focus on improving his socialization by optimizing his functional communication with an AAC device. A core picture vocabulary will be established to help him convey his daily wants and needs. 


1.  John will participate in a Life Participation Approach to Aphasia (LPAA; Elman, 2000) conversation group in order to optimize his functional communication skills and promote socialization. 


2.  John will engage in a card-playing group with his small circle of friends. 


3.  John will create scripts using pictures and short sentences which he can read aloud for his ADL needs. 


4.  John will use an AAC device for self-generated expression. 


5.  John will create a vocabulary of personally relevant words and sentences using an approach such as Response Elaboration Training (RET; Kearns, 1985). 


6.  John will use Visual Scene Display (Beukelman, Hux, Dietz, McKelvey, & Weissling, 2015) as a multimodal communication support. 


Figure 4–7 provides the A-FROM domains (Kagan et al., 2008) for John that were used to formulate his therapeutic goals. 


 


4.  the FLuent AphAsiAs  121


Participation in life situations = 


Enjoys  spending time with friends & 


daughter; likes to play cards. 


Communication & 


language 


Living 


Personal, identity, 


environment = 


attitudes & feelings = 


Small circle of friends 


with 


Angry, frustrated, & 


and supportive 


aphasia


confused, esp. in 


daughter


da


; emp


em ty


pty speech 


evening. 


impairs social 


interactions. 


Language & related impairments = 


Anomic output with paraphasias, 


neologisms, & circumlocutions. Echolalic


in conversation. Comprehension poor at 


conversational level esp. with abstractions. 


Non-functional reading & wriitng skills. 


Anosagnosia noted. 


Figure 4–7.   the A-FroM model for John. 


Conduction Aphasia


However, Damasio (2001) indicated that the arcuate 


fasciculus does not need to be damaged for con-


duction aphasia to be present. There is also clinical 


Characteristics


evidence indicating that patients who had damage to 


the left posterior supramarginal temporal gyrus and 


Conduction aphasia is a fluent aphasia and can 


supramarginal gyrus were not able to retrieve the 


result from a lesion to the cortical region connecting 


mental image of phonemes in written words (Pillay, 


Broca’s and Wernicke’s area. Historically, the general 


Stengel, Humphries, Book, & Binder, 2014). 


assumption was that a lesion to the arcuate fascicu-


The most salient feature of conduction aphasia 


lus would result in conduction aphasia (Anderson 


is a marked difficulty with repetition, especially for 


et al., 1999); however, localization has been contro-


function words rather than nouns, in the presence of 


versial regarding conduction aphasia (Geschwind, 


good auditory comprehension (Chapey & Hallowell, 


1965). The region between Broca’s area and Wer-


2001). An individual with conduction aphasia can 


nicke’s area incorporates the supramarginal gyrus 


produce complex syntactic structures in spontane-


and the white matter pathways of the arcuate fascicu-


ous speech. However, literal (phonemic) paraphasias 


lus as well as the superior longitudinal fasciculus. 


will interfere with effective verbal communication, 





122  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch despite the appropriate syntactic structures. Pho-clinician may observe hesitations in speech output 


nemic paraphasias occur due to a disruption in the 


as well as circumlocutions. Reading comprehension 


process of phonological representation and this pro-


is intact, but oral reading is characterized by lit-


cess is considered a precursor to naming, repeating, 


eral paraphasias, omission of words, and/or word 


reading aloud, and using spontaneous speech (Dell, 


substitutions. The person with conduction aphasia 


Schwartz, Martin, Saffran, & Gagnon,1997). Speech 


can recognize their errors, and they will try to self-


production is characterized by good intonation and 


correct. Typically, conduction aphasia will resolve to 


fluency, but because of word-finding difficulties, the 


an anomic aphasia. 


 Case Scenario:  Miriam


© iofoto


— dreamstime.com


 History and Physical (H & P):   67-year-old, right-handed, white female, admitted to Rehab Hospital 3 months status post (s/p) left CVA in the MCA; ambulates with a straight cane, with upper and lower extremity right-sided weakness. 


 Past Medical History (PMH):   Hypertension (HTN), osteoporosis, s/p myocardial infarction (MI), history of (h/o) transient ischemic attacks (TIAs). 


 Social History:  Married; two adult sons; husband retired policeman not supportive of patient’s illness and needs; two-story home, eight steps to enter; attends an adult center during the day when at home. Patient stated that she was “depressed” over her CVA and the impact it had on her ADLs (activities of daily living). 


 Surgical History:  Unremarkable. 


 


4.  the FLuent AphAsiAs  123


A Functional Analysis of Miriam’s Aphasia


In general, Miriam’s ability to understand conversation is good with some diminished capacity in group settings. Figure 4–8 shows Miriam’s Diagnostic Profile and Figure 4–9 shows her Target Assessment Snapshot. She is able to interact appropriately with a conversational partner, although she is often frustrated by her word-finding difficulties. She tries repeatedly to find the correct word, but this is often a struggle and she becomes angry with herself. As a consequence, Miriam’s verbal communication has many interruptions. Word finding and paraphasias are prevalent, making conversation challenging for both Miriam and her communication partner. 


Cognitively, Miriam attends well and appears to have intact memory for information and events. She is usually correct with her answers to questions about facts and stories from the immediate and more remote past. Visuospatial skills are adequate as Miriam is able to copy and draw, and she can recall print for letters and common words. Executive functioning appears within normal limits. 


She functions appropriately in most social settings and is able to make her needs known. She takes care of family demands for basic cooking, light cleaning, and is planning to return to her card-game group in the community where she lives. 


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity


n  What characteristics of this patient’s language disorder indicate that she has features of conduction aphasia? 


n  What are some psychosocial factors that could impact this patient’s ability to effectively participate in therapy? 


n  What are the family counseling and educational issues in this case and what objectives would you target? 


n  How would you implement an interdisciplinary plan with this patient, and which other services would you include? 


n  Discuss an activity and materials that you believe would target several of the short-term objectives listed in the above section. 


Treatment Considerations


Miriam’s speech is characterized by many phonemic paraphasias; however, her prognosis for becoming a functional communicator is good. Good self-monitoring skills are an asset although she is often frustrated by her awareness of her paraphasic speech and word finding difficulties. Repetition also presents a challenge with multisyllabic words greater than three to four syllables. Her good auditory comprehension and ability to write are assets to be used in program planning. Therapeutic intervention will begin where Miriam feels successful and will increase in small steps, extending from concrete to more abstract stimuli. 


Here are some suggestions:


 





by


r 


s. 


en 


fo


s. 


rized 


ies to  tr


WFL 


 


raphasias:


rbal output 


y be mistak


Pa


Ve


characte


literal (phonemic) 


paraphasia


. [Ma


ximations to 


 


. 


eelings of hopeless-


wing:


onality Characteristics:


Identifying Objects & 


Their Functions:


WFL


Dra


rs


WFL


. 


Pe


Pragmatic


Skills:


WFL


erage phrase length is 7+ word


Executive Functions:


Planning and reasoning 


ADL needs





 


not consistent with her premorbid 


; av


raphasic errors noted on words 


y 


Oral Spelling:


Pa


> 4 letters in length. 


. 


Current 


Depressed with f


ness; 


personality


r apraxia of speech]


l, 


: 


Fluency:


Fluent


Demonstrates episodes logorrhea; 


produce repeated appro


self-correct speech errors


fo


ve


. 





intact 


  


iam hesitates 


ry


sational Speech:


Ability to 


Mir


standing 


group settings pose 


es in words are 


rsational le


ver


bl


WFL. 


s circumlocutionar


uns of fluent speech. 


ticulation:


Under


Con


king memo


sational Ability


nve


wa


WFL; 


some difficulty


Ar


WFL


l. 


Written Spelling:


Sylla


inconsistently transposed. 


rse with paraphasias noted; 


ief r


, and episodic systems


. 


ver


ve


nve


Con


Syntax is 


co


at the co


speech 


and paraphasic. 


after br


and wor


Emotional Lability:


None


xt. 


ry


ythm, 


memo


l-


r sentences is 


plurals).e, 


Oral Reading:


Minimal difficulty reading aloud at


the sentence le


 


:


rm


va


fo


r, words are ve


y:


we


r procedural, semantic


r inflection, rh


Memory


Long-te


fo


ustration noted. 


fo


ho


osod


standing Stories & 


Difficulty with  grammatical 


iting contains spelling 


xical Retrie


Pr


WFL 


and stress of speech. 


phemes (tens


Le


Naming:


Frequent anomia, 


especially on confronta-


tion naming, with 


attempts to self-correct. 


aragraphs:


Self-generated:


Wr


errors; 


mostly accurate in conte


Under


P


Comprehension 


intact. 


mor





Frustration:


Significant fr


vel Comprehension:


 


. 


s. 


ite common words 


Sentence-le


WFL


wareness:


are of speech 


aw


or word


Executing Commands:


WFL


le to wr


Visuospatial Skills:


WFL


difficulties with multisyllabic 


Repetition of numbers is 


Intelligibility:


WFL


Writing to Dictation:


Ab


to dictation. 


eenly 


Deficit A


K


production difficulty


 


Repetition Ability:


Repeating phrases moderately 


impaired; 


words and with more abstract words; 


Spontaneous speech better than 


repetition. 


easier than f


ver 


or 


 


we


. 


e f


ear


Yes/No Questions:


profile for Miriam. 


ys and 


. 


vel Comprehension:


or counting, 


or concrete and abstract 


y. 


wering 


rd-le


ying:


tness:


t and cooperativ


utomatic Speech:A WFL f reciting the alphabet,  stating da months of the y Rate:


WFL


Ans


WFL f


questions


Wo


WFL


Cop


WFL


Attention/Concentration:


WFL


Aler


Depressed mood, ho


aler


therap


iagnostic 


 


.  d


h


y


–8


vioral


Speec


uditor


re 4


Language


A


Reading


Written


Expression


Expression


Cognition


Beha


Symptoms


u


Comprehension 


igF


124


 


4.  the FLuent AphAsiAs  125


1 – Normal


Attention


Memory


2 – Mild-Moderate Impairment


3 – Moderate-Severe Impairment


4 – Severe-Profound Impairment


E


Impaired Cognitive Function


2


R


Language


W


2


2


C1


Executive Functions


Visual Spatial


Figure 4–9.   target Assessment snapshot for Miriam. 


n  Increase ability to retrieve words through word associations, pictures, gestural cues, and sentence stem fill-ins. Avoid phonemic cues, as they are often paraphasic. 


n  Decrease paraphasic errors by self-monitoring and using a readily available picture-based dictionary. 


n  Improve repetition ability starting with easy, one-syllable words and progressing to less common multisyllabic words with written word cues, unison production, and syllable taps. However, if success is limited, consider whether repetition is a functional goal worth continuing. 


n  Improve sequencing of phonemes to reduce metathesis (transposing sounds and syllables within a word). 


n  Improve writing ability by using printed syllables on separate cards to be organized in the correct sequence and then copied. 


Therapeutic goals Using A-FroM (Kagan, 2011)


Miriam’s goals reflect her desire to return to her previous social life, enjoying activities and communicating with her family and friends. Her intact memory, auditory comprehension, and ability to read are assets. Phonemic paraphasias make conversation frustrating, but she is motivated to improve. 


1.  Miriam will participate in an aphasia conversation group to facilitate social interaction using writing to support her functional communication. 


2.  Miriam will optimize her writing skills for communication purposes using the Anagram, Copy, and Recall Therapy (ACRT) program (Helm-Estabrooks 


& Albert, 2004). 


  126  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch 3.  Counseling is recommended for Miriam and her husband for greater understanding and support. 


4.  Facilitate word finding for conversational discourse with Narrative Story Cards (Helm-Estabrooks & Nicholas, 2003). 


5.  Miriam will speak using common phrases with minimal paraphasia during her card-game group with friends. Reading aloud and scripting will be used to facilitate her conversations. 


Figure 4–10 provides the A-FROM domains (Kagan et al., 2008) for Miriam that were used to formulate her therapeutic goals. 


Participation in life situations = Enjoys 


playing cards and board games with 


friends; participates at adult center for 


socialization; visits with her two sons. 


Communication & 


language 


Personal, identity, 


environment = 


Living 


attitudes & feelings =


Husband unsupportive; 


with 


Keenly aware of 


many communication 


language difficulties; 


partners with varying 


aphasia


frustrated depresse


, 


d, 


skill levels to support 


hopelessness. 


conversation at adult 


center. 


Language & related impairments = 


Frequent anomia & paraphasias; impaired 


repetition; able to converse with 


circumlocutions; reading & writing 


functional for ADLs. 


Figure 4–10.   A-FroM model for Miriam. 


 


4.  the FLuent AphAsiAs  127


Anomic Aphasia


rior regions, the anomia will worsen. This is due to 


a disconnection between the areas critical for access 


of phonological word forms and areas of preserved 


Characteristics


semantic knowledge (Antonucci, Beeson, & Rapc-


sak, 2004). 


Word-finding difficulties, also referred to as anomia 


Although patients with lesions in the left tem-


or lexical retrieval difficulty, accompany most types 


poral lobe can experience deficits in retrieving 


of aphasia. However, when the individual has a dis-


proper names for people, they maintain the abil-


proportionately greater difficulty naming than other 


ity to recognize them. Larger lesions may further 


language difficulties, it is considered an anomic 


affect the ability to name and often include difficulty 


aphasia. This deficit becomes most noticeable when 


naming animals and tools (Tranel, Logan, Frank, & 


the individual attempts confrontation naming, that 


Damasio, 1997). 


is, naming an entity when a visual image is pre-


Research by Lorenz and Nickels (2007), investi-


sented. These individuals often use circumlocutions 


gated two primary cueing strategies (orthographic/ 


and are frustrated by their inability to name things. 


letters and phonological/sounds) to determine if 


However, the inability to retrieve words and names 


one type was superior in helping those with word-


for objects can be severe enough to completely halt 


finding difficulty following stroke. Three people 


the flow of speech and severely restrict discourse. 


with chronic aphasia and anomia participated in 


Other salient features of anomic aphasia include flu-


the study to determine if using the initial letter of a 


ent speech with intermittent hesitations. This halt 


word or the initial sound of the target word better 


in the flow of fluent speech is a direct result of the 


facilitated naming. In one participant, both ortho-


word-finding problem. For most people with anomic 


graphic and phonological cues had similar results. 


aphasia, morphology, syntax, and auditory compre-


In the other two, orthographic cues were most ben-


hension are normal. 


eficial. Initial letter cues were equally effective in 


Anomia is generally caused by damage to the 


supporting irregularly spelled words such as  knife, 


left inferior temporal cortex. If the damage occurs in 


as they were for regularly spelled word such as  king. 


the posterior portion of the inferior temporal cortex, 


The authors concluded that initial letter cues appear 


pure anomia is more likely to be observed. Pure 


effective in treating anomia as they provide strong 


anomia is observed when access to phonological 


and enduring effects, regardless of the patient’s abil-


word forms is impaired. If the damage occurs in the 


ity to benefit from initial phoneme cues. Although 


more anterior portion of the temporal lobe, then 


there were only three participants in the study, it 


semantic anomia is noted. This type of anomia is a 


is worthwhile to note that naming skills may be 


result of a degradation of semantic knowledge. It 


improved by showing the first letter as a cue for 


also has been reported that the more anterior the 


target words when working with individuals who 


lesion, the more severe the anomia. There is some 


have lexical-retrieval difficulties. 


suggestion that if the lesion extends into more ante-





128  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch


 Case Scenario:  Sophie


© sean 


nel — dreamstime.com


 History and Physical (H & P):   Sophie is a 63-year-old white female admitted to the ED via EMS; found on first floor of her home, sitting in a chair; lethargic, slurred speech; disoriented. 


 Past Medical History (PMH):   Hypertension, hyperlipidemia, IDDM, osteoarthritis. 


 Social History:   Lives alone in two-story home, two blocks away from daughter and her family. Retired schoolteacher. 


 Surgical History:   s/p right total hip replacement (THR); s/p angioplasty with stent in left anterior descending artery (LAD). 


A Functional Analysis of sophie’s Aphasia


Sophie’s ability to comprehend language in both verbal and written forms is within functional limits. Figure 4–11 shows Sophie’s Diagnostic Profile and Figure 4–12 shows her Target Assessment Snapshot. Reading ability is normal at sentence and paragraph levels. Her confrontational naming ability and word finding during discourse remain a challenge. However, Sophie can express herself to make her needs and wants known, even though she tends to use circumlocutions to convey ideas. Speech rate and prosody are normal, and intelligibility is good, but fluency is impacted by her word-finding difficulties. Consequently, Sophie has many pauses and self-correcting attempts during phone conversations and in 


 


. 











Paraphasias: None. 


. 


fficulty


Identifying Objects & Their Functions:  WNL


Fluency: Impacted by word-finding  di


Drawing: WFL





Executive Functions: WFL


Oral Spelling: Letter substitutions noted in minimal pairs, e.g., mat for hat Current Personality Characteristics: Pleasant and apologetic for her word-finding problems. 


Pragmatic Skills: WFL


 


Ability: 





for basic words. 


itten Spelling:


, word 


Understanding Conversa- tional Speech:  Comprehension for  sentences and discourse is WFL. 


Articulation: WFL


Wr WFL


fficulties impact 


Emotional Lability:  None. 


Conversational  WFL; however finding di speech fluency in conversation. 


Oral Reading: WFL


:





Memory: Long-term memory and working memory intact for  procedural, semantic, and episodic systems. 


; 


y. 


L 


Prosody: WF


Understanding Stories &  Paragraphs WNL


fected by word-finding  ficult


Self-generated:  Af dif


Frustration: Demonstrates extreme  frustration with inability  to retrieve desired  words. 


Lexical Retrieval-Naming: Impaired for confrontation  naming and lexical retrieval  during discourse circumlocutions noted. 


 


:


Ability:


Sentence-level Comprehension: WFL


suospatial Skills


Executing Commands: WFL


iting to Dictation:


Vi WFL


Intelligibility: WFL


Wr WFL


Deficit awareness: Keen awareness of  deficits. 


Repetition  Normal repetition for  words, phrases and  sentences. 


sophie. 


Yes/No Questions:


profile for 


for counting, days L 


rd-level Comprehension: L 


L 


Automatic Speech:  WF of the week, alphabet. 


Rate: WFL


Answering  WFL


Wo WF


Copying: WFL


Attention/Concentration:  WFL


Alertness: WF


iagnostic 


.  d


–11


itten


re 4


Language 


Speech


Auditory


Expression


Reading


Wr Expression


Cognition


Behavioral Symptoms


u


Comprehension 


igF





129


  130  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch 1 – Normal


Attention


Memory


2 – Mild-Moderate Impairment


3 – Moderate-Severe Impairment


4 – Severe-Profound Impairment


E2


Impaired Cognitive Function


R


Language


W


1


2


C1


Executive Functions


Visual Spatial


Figure 4–12.   target Assessment snapshot for sophie. 


public encounters, for example, scheduling appointment, shopping, reporting a billing error on her credit card, and managing public transportation exchanges. 


Sophie’s writing skills are good. She can write sentences but has some lexical retrieval difficulty in this domain as well. When she cannot think of a needed word, she may ask the listener for help as she struggles. Although this can be an effective compensatory strategy, it is not always practical in public venues. Therefore, this causes more frustration for Sophie in that she knows she can find the means to express her ideas, but cannot readily use them in certain public scenarios. 


Cognitively, Sophie displays good attention to tasks and can concentrate, especially if the task is of interest to her. Her memory skills for her ADL appear to be functioning within normal limits, and she is able to recall basic information from events in the recent and distant past. She recalls how to cook her favorite meals and is able to manage her money and pay bills. Planning and judgment appear to be intact for common household tasks and chores, making appointments, and organizing her day. Sophie maintains a vibrant social network with her family and friends who are supportive of her rehabilitation goals. Although she is keenly aware of her deficits, she maintains a pleasant demeanor and continues to improve her functional communication skills by being actively engaged in her therapy program. 


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity


n  People with anomic aphasia can be classified into treatment categories that are semantically based, phonologically based, and self-cued (Boyle, 2004). 


 


4.  the FLuent AphAsiAs  131


n  How would you attempt to determine the most beneficial treatment for your patient? 


n  What will you use to support semantic and phonemic cueing? 


n  Which of Sophie’s strengths can you use to promote word finding (lexical retrieval)? 


n  How will you advance Sophie’s conversational skills with a variety of communication partners? 


n  Do you view Sophie’s word-finding difficulties as a receptive or expressive deficit? Explain. 


Treatment Considerations


Some general therapeutic objectives and techniques applicable to Sophie’s deficit profile include:


n  Improve lexical retrieval to request information and assistance using semantic feature analysis (SFA). 


n  Increase engagement in conversation with designated people using that facilitate oral naming, including supportive pictures and written list of functional words. 


n  Make needs and wants known with semantic and phonemic 


self-cueing to increase word finding. Provide words following circumlocutions. 


n  Based on Sophie’s needed activities of daily living (ADL), make her needs and wants known for use during conversation and begin facilitating their use in functional contexts. 


Therapeutic goals Using A-FroM


Sophie’s goals reflect her awareness of her word-finding difficulties. As a retired schoolteacher, she wants to use the correct words when talking to family, friends, clerks, and doctors. She wants to communicate effectively when making appointments, shopping, and talking to people in public places and on the phone. Her good executive functioning skills for attention, memory, and comprehension of verbal and written language are strengths. 


1.  Sophie will join an aphasia conversation group with a focus on the Life Participation Approach to Aphasia (LPAA; Elman, 2000) to improve real-life participation involving activities that are meaningful to her. 


2.  Sophie will increase her lexical retrieval skills for words using the Semantic Feature Analysis (SFA) for nouns (Boyle & Coelho, 1995; Coelho, McHugh, 


& Boyle, 2000) and verbs (Wambaugh, Mauszycki, & Wright, 2014), with diagrams for cueing. 


  132  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch 3.  Counseling is recommended for Sophie and her daughter for improved family knowledge and support. 


4.  Facilitate lexical retrieval (word-finding) during conversation using Narrative Story Cards (Helm-Estabrooks & Nicholas, 2003). 


Figure 4–13 provides the A-FROM domains (Kagan et al., 2008) for Sophie that were used to formulate her therapeutic goals. 


Participation in life situations = 


Likes to shop with friends & daughter; 


enjoys activities sponsored by local library. 


Communication & 


language 


Personal, identity, 


environment = Lives 


attitudes & feelings = 


near daughters and has 


Living 


Pleasant & apologetic 


many friends who 


with 


for word-finding 


frequently visit her and 


aphasia


problems; very 


take her places


places she


y


she 


frustrated with her 


enjoys. Frustration can 


impact social 


anomia. 


interactions. 


Language & related impairments = 


Word-finding difficulties affect speech 


fluency in conversation; circumlocutions 


noted. 


Figure 4–13.   the A-FroM model for sophie. 


 


4.  the FLuent AphAsiAs  133


references


 disorders (5th ed., pp. 186–243). Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. 


Coelho, C. S., McHugh, R., & Boyle, M. (2000). Semantic Anderson, J., Gilmore, R., Roper, S., Crosson, B., Bauer, feature analysis as a treatment for aphasic dysno-R. M., Nadeau, S., . . . Heilman, K. (1999). Conduc-


mia: A replication.  Aphasiology,  14, 133–142. 


tion aphasia and the arcuate fasciculus: A reexami-


Crosson, B. (1992).  Subcortical function in language 


nation of the Wernicke-Geschwind model.  Brain 


 and memory.  New York, NY: Oxford University 


 and Language,  70, 1–12. 


Press. 


Antonucci, S. M., Beeson, P. M., & Rapcsak, S. Z. (2004). 


Crosson, B., Fabrizio, K. S., Singletary, F., Cato., M. A., Anomia in patients with left inferior temporal lobe 


Wierenga, C. E., Parkinson, R. B., & Rothi, L. J. G. 


lesions.  Aphasiology,  18, 543–554. 


(2007). Treatment of naming in non-fluent aphasia 


Beukelman, D. R., Hux, K., Dietz, A., & McKelvey, & through manipulation of intention and attention: 


Weissling, K. (2015). Using visual scene displays as 


A  phase 1 comparison of two novel treatments. 


communication support options for people with 


 Journal of International Neuropsychological Soci-


chronic, severe aphasia: A summary of AAC research 


 ety,  13, 582–594. 


and future research directions.  Augmentative Alter-


Damasio, H. (2001). Neural basis of language disorders. 


 native Communication 31(3), 234–245. https://doi 


In R. Chapey (Ed.),  Language intervention strategies 


.org/10.3109/07434618.2015.1052152. 


 in adult aphasia and related neurogenic communi-


Bhogal, S. K., Teasell, R., & Speechley, M. (2003). Intencation disorders (4th ed., pp. 18–36). Philadelphia, sity of aphasia therapy, impact on recovery.  Stroke, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. 


 34, 987–993. 


Davis, C. H., Harrington, G., & Baynes, K. (2006). Inten-Binder, J. R. (2017). Current controversies on Wer-


sive semantic intervention in fluent aphasia: A pilot 


nicke’s area and its role in language . Clinical Neu-


study with fMRI.  Aphasiology,  20, 59–83. 


 rology and Neuroscience Report,  58, 1–10. 


Dell, G. S., Schwartz, M. F., Martin, N., Saffran, E. M., & Binder, J. R., & Desai, R. H. (2011). The neurobiology Gagnon, D. A. (1997). Lexical access in aphasic and 


of semantic memory.  Trends in Cognitive Science, 


non-aphasic peakers.  Psychological Review,  104(4), 15(11), 527–536. 


801–838. 


Boyle, M. (2004). Semantic feature analysis: The evi-


DeWitt I., & Rauschecker, J. P. (2012) .  Phoneme and dence for treating lexical impairments in aphasia. 


word recognition in the auditory ventral stream. 


In   Aphasia: Treatment for lexical and sentence 


 Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 


 production skills.  Rockville, MD: American Speech-U.S.A.   109, E505–E514. 


Language-Hearing Association. 


Elman, R. J. (2000, November).  Language disor-


Boyle, M., & Coelho, C. A. (1995). Application of 


 ders in adults’ grand rounds: Life participation 


semantic feature analysis as a treatment for aphasic 


 approaches to aphasia.  Presentation at the Ameri-dysnomia.  American Journal of Speech-Language 


can Speech-Language-Hearing Association Conven-


 Pathology,  4, 94–98. 


tion, Washington, DC. 


Brookshire, R. H. (1997).  Introduction to neurogenic 


Ferguson, N. F., Evans, K., & Raymer, A. M. (2012). 


 communication disorders. New York, NY: Mosby. 


A comparison of intention and pantomime gesture 


Caspari, I. (2005). Wernicke’s aphasia. In L. L. Lapointe treatment for noun retrieval in people with aphasia. 


(Ed.),  Aphasia and related neurogenic language dis-


 American Journal of Speech-Language Pathology, 


 orders (3rd ed., pp. 142–154). New York, NY: Thieme. 


 21, 126–139. 


Chapey, R., & Hallowell, B. (2001). Introduction to lan-Fernandino, L., Binder, J. R., Desai, R. H., Pendl, S. L., guage intervention strategies in adult aphasia. In 


Humphries, C. J., Gross, W. L., . . . Seidenberg, M. S. 


R. Chapey (Ed.),  Language intervention strategies 


(2016). Concept representation reflects multimodal 


 in aphasia and related neurogenic communication 


abstraction: A framework for embodied semantics. 


 disorders (4th ed., pp. 3–19). Philadelphia, PA: Lip-Cerebral Cortex,  26, 2018–2034. 


pincott, Williams & Wilkins. 


Geschwind, N. (1965). Disconnection syndromes in 


Cherney, L. R., & Robey, R. R. (2008). Aphasia treatment: animals and man.  Brain,  88, 237–294. 


Recovery, prognosis, and clinical effectiveness. In R. 


Goodglass, H., & Kaplan, E. (2001).  The assessment Chapey (Ed.),  Language intervention strategies in 


 of aphasia and related disorders.  Philadelphia, PA: aphasia and related neurogenic communication 


Lea & Febiger. 


  134  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Helm-Estabrooks, N., & Albert, M. L. (2004).  Anagram, Rapcsak, S. Z., & Rubens, A. B. (1994). Localization of copy, and recall therapy. Manual of aphasia and 


lesions in transcortical aphasia. In A. Kertesz, (Ed.), 


 aphasia therapy (2nd ed.). Austin, TX: Pro-Ed. 


 Localization and neuroimaging in neuropsychology 


Helm-Estabrooks, N., & Nicholas, M. (2003).  Narrative (pp.    297–329). San Diego, CA: Academic Press. 


 Story Cards. Austin, TX: Pro-Ed. 


Raymer, A. M., Singletary, F., Rodriguez, A., Ciampitti, 


Kagan, A. (2011). A-FROM in action at the Aphasia 


M., Heilman, K. M., & Rothi, L. J. G. (2006). Effects of Institute.  Seminars in Speech and Language,  32, gesture + verb treatment for noun and verb retrieval 


216–228. 


in aphasia.  Journal of the International Neuropsy-


Kagan, A., Simmons-Mackie, N., Rowland, A., Huijbregts, 


 chological Society,  12, 867–882. 


M., Shumway, E., McEwen, S., . . . Sharp, S. (2008). 


Raymer, A. M., & Thompson, C. K. (1991). Effects of  


Counting what counts: A framework for capturing 


verbal plus gestural treatment in a patient with 


real-life outcomes of aphasia intervention.  Aphasiol-


aphasia and severe apraxia of speech. In T.E 


 ogy,  22(3), 258–280. 


Prescott (Ed.), Clinical Aphasiology, (pp. 507–519). 


Kearns, K. P. (1985). Response elaboration training 


Austin, TX: Pro-Ed. 


for patient-initiated utterances. In R. H. Brookshire 


Rose, M. L. (2006). The utility of arm and hand gestures 


(Ed.),  Clinical aphasiology conference proceedings 


in the treatment of aphasia.  Advances in Speech-


(pp. 196–204). Minneapolis, MN: BRK. 


 Language Pathology,  8, 92–109. 


Lorenz, A., & Nickels, L. (2007). Orthographic cueing Sethi, N. K., Burke, L., Torgovnick, J., & Arsura, E. 


in anomic aphasia: How does it work?  Aphasiology, (2007). Transcortical sensory aphasia as a result of 


 21, 670–686. 


left frontal cortical-subcortical infarction.  European Marshall, R. C. (2001). Early management of Wernicke’s 


 Neurology,  57, 52–53. 


aphasia: A context-based approach. In R. Chapey 


Tranel, D., Logan, C. G., Frank, R. J., & Damasio, A. R. 


(Ed.),  Language intervention strategies in aphasia 


(1997). Explaining category-related effects in the 


 and related neurogenic communication disorders 


retrieval of conceptual and lexical knowledge for 


(4th ed., pp. 507–530). Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott 


concrete entities: Operationalization and analysis of 


Williams & Wilkins. 


factors.  Neuropsychologia,  35, 1329–1339. 


Pillay, S. B., Stengel, B. C., Humphries, C., Book, D. 


Wambaugh, J., Mauszycki, S., & Wright, S. (2014). 


S., & Binder, J. R. (2014). Cerebral localization of 


Semantic feature analysis: Application to confron-


impaired honological retrieval during rhyme judg-


tation naming of action in aphasia.  Aphasiology, 


ment.  Annals of Neurology,  76(5), 738–746. 


 28(1), 1–24. 





 Chapter 5


oTher AphAsIC syndroMes


subcortical Aphasia


magnetic resonance diffusion-weighted imaging 


(DWI) was able to visualize small cortical infarcts 


not visible on conventional MRI or CT scans (Han  


Introduction


et al., 2006). These authors proposed that nontha-


lamic subcortical aphasias are due to smaller, previ-


Understanding subcortical aphasias can be chal-


ously unidentifiable cortical infarcts. Although this 


lenging even for the most seasoned clinicians due 


may not explain all subcortical aphasias, the interest 


to individual differences in cortical and subcortical 


lies in the fact that DWI and magnetic resonance 


architecture, as well as interpretation of research 


perfusion-weighted imaging (PWI) have clarified the 


findings. Nadeau and Crosson (1997) wrote a semi-


role of cortical lesions in subcortical aphasias (Hillis 


nal, comprehensive review of the thinking at the 


et al., 2004). 


time regarding subcortical aphasias, caused spe-


Hillis et al. (2004) studied 24 patients with 


cifically by nonthalamic striatocapsular infarcts. 


acute left caudate nucleus infarcts (nonthalamic) on 


Out of 33 reported cases, there were 17 with no 


diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI). They found that 


aphasia. A primary conclusion of their review was 


the stroke in these patients was caused by  cortical 


that aphasia due to nonthalamic subcortical lesions 


 hypoperfusion  due to stenosis of the large vessels. 


results from a combination of thalamic disconnec-


That is, the subcortical stroke was due to the cor-


tion and cortical dysfunction related to persistent 


tical hypoperfusion preventing blood flow to the 


ischemia or infarct. These lesions could not be 


subcortical region. They found that in 14 patients 


visualized by conventional MRI or CT scans of the 


with aphasia, 13 had hypoperfusion of at least one 


time. The subcortical aphasias are often divided 


cortical region. The other patient had hypoperfusion 


into two general groups, thalamic and nonthalamic 


of the left occipital lobe only, and no aphasia. In the 


types (Davis, 2007; Nadeau & Rothi, 2001). Kuljic-


10 patients that did  not  have aphasia, none of them Obradovic (2003) further divides the classification 


had hypoperfusion of a cortical region. The severity 


into three groups: thalamic aphasia, striatocapsular 


and type of the resulting aphasia was statistically 


aphasia, and aphasia with white matter paraventric-


associated with hypoperfusion of a specific region 


ular lesions. The subcortical structures are many, 


of infarct. This investigation only included patients 


and they comprise a complex functional network 


with nonthalamic infarcts, so patients who sustain 


supporting communication. As a consequence, the 


a thalamic infarct may present differently. These 


range of communicative impairment noted in peo-


patients, according to Hillis et al. (2004), present 


ple with subcortical aphasias is variable based on 


with fluent, anomic speech, possible paraphasias, 


the anatomical location and size of the lesion. 


good comprehension, and repetition. The site of 


Because of more refined imaging techniques, 


lesion associated with these language characteris-


a better understanding of  subcortical aphasia 


tics tends to be in the left pulvinar or ventrolateral 


emerged (Webb, Adler, & Love, 2008). For example, 


thalamus. 





135


  136  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch According to Vigneau et al. (2006), the left 


but have impaired comprehension, naming, and ver-


hemispheric language functions are  not   modular 


bal (semantic) paraphasias (Kuljic-Obradovic, 2003). 


in nature, but rather form large-scale architectural 


In a study on subcortical aphasia after stroke (Kang, 


networks with subcortical structures. For example, 


Sohn, Han, & Paik, 2017), types and severity of lesions Vukovic et al. (2012) analyzed the acoustic and per-were evaluated to determine predictors of aphasic 


ceptual aspects of phonation in 60 men with aphasia 


impairment. The results of this study showed that 


— 20 with subcortical aphasia, 20 with Broca’s apha-


anomic aphasia was the most commonly observed 


sia, and 20 with Wernicke’s aphasia, and an addi-


characteristic in subcortical aphasia with lesions in 


tional 20 age-matched controls with no neurological 


the basal ganglia (50% of sample). 


history, using the Multidimensional Voice Program. 


A brief review of the neuroanatomical sub-


They found that all the groups were impaired on the 


strates to these aphasias is in order (Figure 5–1). 


acoustic and perceptual measures. However, those 


The primary subcortical areas include the  internal 


with subcortical aphasia were more impaired than 


 capsule (white matter pathways), the  basal ganglia, the other aphasic groups on the entire neurocog-and the thalamus. The internal capsule is a passage-


nitive system of articulation-phonological language 


way for motor and sensory fiber tracts entering and 


processing. The authors felt that this may be due 


leaving the cortex and is located between the thala-


to lesions in the globus pallidus, suggesting a link 


mus and the lenticular nuclei. The lenticular nuclei 


with the striatal vocal area (Wise, Greene, Buchel, & comprise a part of the basal ganglia. The  caudate 


Scott, 1999). In discussing their findings, the authors 


 nucleus  and the  putamen  make up the lenticular stated that thalamic lesions can even lead to tempo-nuclei, and together the  caudate  and the  putamen rary muteness, then followed by aphasia. Therefore, 


are called the  striatum. It is in the region of the the clinician should be aware that in some subcor-capsulostriatum — the internal capsule, the caudate tical thalamic aphasias, the patient may not have 


nucleus, and the putamen — that most subcortical 


speech especially in the acute phase of the stroke. 


infarcts generally occur. 


Furthermore, it may be that the person presenting 


The role of the  nonthalamic structures  below 


with a subcortical aphasia may not perceive sound 


the perisylvian region in normal and impaired lan-


production in the same way as a normal listener. 


guage processes is controversial. The actual con-


In summary, there is a lack of conclusive evi-


troversy lies not in the fact that it is possible to 


dence regarding the nature and etiology of subcorti-


observe language impairment due to lesions in this 


cal aphasias primarily due to the variability in the 


region; it is the variability in nature and degree of 


research findings. The lack of clear answers regard-


those impairments that raises some questions (Ken-


ing etiology and characteristics foster clinical ambi-


nedy & Murdoch, 1993; Nadeau & Crosson, 1997). 


guity in diagnosing the type of aphasia. 


Some authors have reported differences in the lan-


guage impairment of those patients with  anterior 


striatocapsular lesions versus those with  posterior 


Characteristics of 


striatocapsular lesions (Cappa, Cavallotti, Guidotti, 


subcortical Aphasias


Papagno, & Vignolo, 1983; Murdoch, Thompson, 


Fraser, & Harrison, 1986; Naeser et al., 1982). How-


The two types of subcortical aphasia — nonthalamic 


ever, Kennedy and Murdoch (1993) described cases 


and thalamic — have critical differences except for 


in which the differences in language difficulties 


spared repetition, which is preserved in both types. 


could not be attributed to an anterior-posterior dis-


Individuals that have  striatocapsular  involvement tinction, leaving this controversy unresolved. 


and  white matter periventricular  lesions generally The basal ganglia and thalamus are connected 


experience a lack of speech fluency, and literal (pho-


to the cerebral cortex by a series of white matter cir-


nemic) paraphasias, but generally preserved com-


cuits called the  cortico-striato-pallido-thalamocorti-prehension and naming. Individuals with thalamic 


 cal loops. The thalamus is a nucleus located deep in aphasia generally experience fluent speech output 


the cerebrum. It is connected to motor, sensory, and 


 


5.  other AphAsic sYndroMes  137


Supplemetary


motor area


Motor cortex


Somatosensory cortex


Superior


Premotor cortex


parietal lobule


Corticostriate


fibers


Cortical


efferents


Ventral lateral


nucleus


To brainstem


Globus Pallidus:


Centromedian


and spinal cord


Internal


External


nucleus


Subthalamic


nucleus


Thalamus


Putamen


Compacta


Substantia nigra:


Reticulata


Figure 5–1.   A schematic of subcortical pathways. 


association areas of the cortex. It is a primary relay 


above, a reason for this discrepancy is that the non-


station for information entering and leaving the 


thalamic lesions had not been visible on imaging 


cerebral cortex. For example, a hallmark of thalamic 


studies (Nadeau & Rothi, 2001, p. 460). The clinical 


aphasia is poor attention. This is thought to be due to 


profile for thalamic aphasia is more unitary, and as a 


a lesion in the white fibers connecting the thalamus 


consequence, a clinician would be able to determine 


to the prefrontal cortex (Davis, 2007, p. 48). Apha-


the existence of a thalamic aphasia more easily. For 


sias due to thalamic lesions are better understood 


a thorough and succinct review of the subcortical 


and better documented compared with aphasias that 


aphasias, see Kent (2004). We have also provided a 


are due to nonthalamic subcortical lesions. As noted 


summary table (Table 5–1), for further clarification. 


Table 5–1.   comparative thoughts on the subcortical Aphasias Citation


Conceptualization of the subcortical Aphasias


Bhatnagar, c. (2013).   Neuroscience 


1.  subcortical aphasias are defined by the site of lesion and not by for the study of communicative 


aphasic characteristics. 


 disorders (4th ed., pp. 447–448). 


Baltimore, Md: Lippincott Williams 


2.  subcortical lesions disrupt the connections to the cortical language 


& Wilkins. 


regions. 


3.  the most common type is  anterior subcortical aphasia syndrome. 


a.  seen in patients with lesions in the caudate, anterior limb of the internal capsule, and anterior putamen. 


b.  characteristics: speech is dysarthric and nonfluent, and mild comprehension and repetition impairments exist. 


4.  Lesions of the  dominant thalamus produce a thalamic aphasia characterized by:


a.  Fluent aphasia with paraphasic errors. 


b.  “relatively spared” auditory comprehension. 


c.  A dichotomy may be observed in speech fluency in that when the patient is awake, speech is intact, but paraphasic when drowsy. 


5.  the thalamus may play a role in activating the language cortex, so lesions to the thalamus may actually cause the language area to sleep. 


6.  subcortical lesions may also involve the temporal isthmus with connections to Wernicke’s area, possibly interfering with auditory comprehension. 


papathanasiou, i., coppens, p., & 


1.  subcortical aphasia is not a unitary entity, and variability exists portagas, c. (2013).  Aphasia and 


among patients. 


 related communication disorders.  


Burlington, MA: Jones & Bartlett 


2.  Lesions in the head of the left caudate and anterior limb of publishing. 


the internal capsule produce an aphasia with the following characteristics:


a.  Auditory comprehension deficits


b. dysarthria


c.  Motor impairments


3.  thalamic aphasia is characterized by:


a.  nonfluent speech. 


b.  spared auditory comprehension. 


c.  sometimes complete suppression of speech at onset. 


d.  Low vocal volume (later in recovery). 


e.  severe reduction of spontaneous speech, restricted mainly to direct questions only. 


f.  semantic paraphasias. 


note: compare this description of thalamic aphasia with Bhatnagar’s above. 


138


Table 5–1.    continued


Citation


Conceptualization of the subcortical Aphasias


nadeau, s. e., & gonzalez rothi, L. 


1.  Aphasia is an indirect consequence of subcortical lesions. 


(2008). rehabilitation of subcortical 


aphasia. in roberta chapey (ed.), 


2.  Aphasia is usually caused by ischemic strokes. 


 Language intervention strategies 


3.  cortical projections to the thalamus are as extensive as those from in aphasia and related neurogenic 


the thalamus to the cortex (nadeau, 2001). 


 communication disorders (5th ed.). 


Baltimore, Md: Lippincott Williams 


4.  thalamus is a regulated, or gate-relay device. 


& Wilkins. 


5.  thalamic aphasia:


a.  spares repetition. 


b.  spares procedural knowledge underlying phonological 


processing. 


c.  Anomia is noted in spontaneous speech. 


d.  normal grammar. 


e.  normal articulation. 


f.  in the worst cases, moderate auditory comprehension deficits may be noted. 


6.  nonthalamic aphasia:


a. the  striatocapsular complex, that is, the head of the caudate, the putamen, and anterior limb of the internal capsule. 


b.  Because of cortical connections, reductions in cortical blood flow associated with a lesion to this subcortical region will produce an aphasia consistent with the cortical reduction. subcortical lesion affecting blood flow to Wernicke’s area will produce an aphasia resembling a fluent, Wernicke’s type aphasia. 


c.  commonly include impairment in:


iii.  grammatical function


iii.  phonologic function


iii.  Lexical-semantic function


Murdoch, B. e. (2004). Language 


1.  nonthalamic lesions: controversy and uncertainty surround the role disorders in adults: subcortical 


of the striatocapsular complex in producing aphasias. 


involvement. in raymond e. 


a.  difference between  anterior  striatocapsular and  posterior Kent (ed.),  The MIT encyclopedia 


striatocapsular lesions. 


 of communication disorders. 


cambridge, MA: the Mit press


b.  Anterior lesions: good comprehension, slow, but grammatical speech. 


c. poster ior lesions: poor comprehension, fluent, Wernicke’s type output. 


2.  some common impairments of subcortical aphasias, in general, noted by researchers:


a.  confrontation naming


b. repetition


c.  Auditory comprehension


d.  reading comprehension


 continues





139





140  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Table 5–1.    continued


Citation


Conceptualization of the subcortical Aphasias


Murdoch, B. e. (2004)   continued


3.  thalamic lesions produce aphasia of a  mixed transcortical  type. 


a.  preserved repetition


b.  variable but often good comprehension


c.  reduction in spontaneous speech output


d. Anomia


e.  semantic paraphasias. 


4.  “contemporary theories suggest that the role of subcortical structures in language is essentially neuroregulatory, relying on quantitative neuronal activity”(Murdoch, p. 317). 


 Case Scenario:  Winnie


© Monkey Business 


images


— dreamstime.com


 History and Physical (H & P):   63-year-old, right-handed, Vietnamese female, admitted to local hospital. Numbness in the right arm and shoulder; lethargy. 


On examination, her level of alertness was significantly reduced. Family brought her to the hospital describing her as “babbling and sleepy.” Blood pressure in the emergency department (ED) was 130/85 and heart rate was 92. She did not seem to understand the questions asked of her. 


 


5.  other AphAsic sYndroMes  141


 Past Medical History (PMH):   Winnie has no prior history of stroke. Her PMH 


includes hyperlipidemia and hypertension (HTN). She is compliant with all medications. 


 Social History:   Lives with her husband and her son and his family in a two-story row home in Philadelphia. Winnie speaks proficient English as a second language. She has been in the United States since 1977. Completed required schooling in South Vietnam. 


 Surgical History:   Unremarkable. 


A Functional Analysis of winnie’s subcortical Aphasia


In the acute phase of the stroke, Winnie presented with extreme lethargy, often dozing off during the middle of a communicative interaction (Figure 5–2 shows Winnie’s Diagnostic Profile and Figure 5–3 shows her ALD Target Snapshot). 


Her lethargy complicates her already compromised ability to process auditory information, especially at the conversational level. It is important for the clinician to understand the impact that Winnie’s level of alertness has on her auditory processing skills and to adjust the therapy accordingly. Although Winnie speaks fluently, her speech is characterized by numerous semantic paraphasias. From a functional perspective, Winnie’s paraphasic output can be circumvented if the listener uses the context of the exchange to facilitate appropriate word selection. 


She is very aware of her receptive and expressive deficits, but appears almost indifferent to them. Reading is impaired at the paragraph level, but is functional at the word and phrase levels. The clinician may want to consider using Winnie’s reading skills at the word/phrase level to promote growth in other deficit areas. 


Because the written word is static, and not fleeting like the speech signal, Winnie processes and attends better to this type of stimuli. This can help her process information for communication purposes. Therapeutically, the clinician can pair the written word with the speech signal to optimize Winnie’s comprehension of more difficult material, if necessary. Winnie’s difficulty maintaining attention affects all areas of cognition. To complicate matters, Winnie demonstrates declarative memory deficits. In other words, her procedural motor memory for activities such as dressing, cooking, and grooming are less impaired than her ability to talk about them. This is an instance where the written word and/or pictures can facilitate procedural functioning. Visuospatial skills are functional but are optimized with large print and pictures. Using simple drawings and bold print as well as pictures with emotional valence are suggested. Winnie’s ability to solve problems associated with her activities of daily living (ADLs) will vary based on her procedural memory and the number of steps involved completing the task. Therefore, Winnie may not be able to manage some of her ADLs such as cooking independently. However, every patient is different, so this admonishment is merely cautionary. Her functional profile will change in a positive direction as her level of alertness increases. 


t 


. 


s. 


ry


line 





y to 


 


t. 


. 


y to lethargy 


e memo


e. 


raphasias:


ecute simple line 


Pa


Semantic paraphasias 


present. 


ex


y be secondar


le to name and identify 


wing:


ma


le to 


wings when aler


onality Characteristics:


mine at the time of


Identifying Objects & 


Their Functions:


Ab


common objects when aler


and attentiv


Dra


rs


Ab


dra


Pe


:


ad. 


Fluency:


Speech output is border


fluent (6-8 words per utterance), 


with semantic paraphasia


sa-


lems with declarativ


lethargy and 


ver


e-


Oral Spelling:


Some difficulty spelling commonly 


used words; 


prob


Executive Functions:


by


l due to 


Cannot assess secondar


and inattention. 


Current 


Cannot deter


assessment due to lethargy


ve


. 


 


ected 


  


Pragmatic Skills


Aff


difficulty maintaining the 


communication dy








standing Con


rely impaired at the 


rsational le


: 


. 


ve


nve


ticulation:


w and 


ragraphic errors


Under


tional Speech:


Se


co


lethargy and inattentiv


ness


r ADLs is less 


Ar


WFL


Written Spelling:


Pa


fory





. 


r, her lethargy 


Emotional Lability:


None noted. 


ve


:  





sational Ability


WFL at sentence 


we





names of 


ver


l. Ho


y to lethargy


e functioning is impaired; 


Oral Reading:


Reading aloud is slo


labored. 


 


s, 


:


ve


Con


Syntax 


le


and paraphasias complicate


her functional discourse


r ADL needsfo


y:


, addres


Memory


Declarativ


procedural motor memo


impaired. 


standing Stories & 


. 


osod


y be secondar


of 


Pr


Reduced intonation contours; 


ma


aragraphs:


Under


P


Impaired due to inability 


to maintain attention and 


concentration. 


ck


Self-generated:


Functional 


signature


family


val-Naming:


verely 


Frustration:


None noted at the time of


assessment. 


t. 


. 


l due to la


ed with 


vel Comprehension:


. 


ve


 


xical RetrieLe Confrontation naming is  moderate-se impaired. 


ecute one-step 


ut optimiz


s/no 


ex


int and pictures


ye


ver 


Sentence-le


Moderately impaired at the 


paragraph le


attention at the time of assess-


ment. 


wareness:


are of her 


by


le to 


we


aw


Executing Commands:


Ab


commands when aler


ragraphic errors noted. 


, ho


Visuospatial Skills:


Functional b


large pr


Intelligibility:


WFL


Writing to Dictation:


Pa





Deficit A


She is 


communication deficits as 


indicated 


responses to questions


or words and 


by





. 


 


le


Repetition Ability:


WFL f


sentences


some paraphasias 


noted. 


ected 


 


as ab


. 


e, 


, hesitant 


Yes/No Questions:


tness


ut not opposi-


profile for Winnie. 


vel Comprehension:


int. 


, b


or counting, 


or common words in


Cooperativ


wed rate


wering 


rd-le


ying:


. 


tness:


utomatic Speech:


ys of the week, 


vel of aler


oor


A


WFL f


da


alphabet with a 


verbal prompt to 


facilitate initiation. 


Rate:


Slo


speech. 


Ans


Response accuracy aff


le


Wo


WFL f


large pr


Cop


WFL


Attention/Concentration:


P


Aler


Lethargic


tional. 


iagnostic 


 


.  d


h


y


–2


vioral


Speec


uditor


re 5


Language


A


Reading


Written


Expression


Expression


Cognition


Beha


Symptoms


u


Comprehension 


igF


142


 


5.  other AphAsic sYndroMes  143


1 – Normal


Atten tion


Mem  ory


2 – Mild-Moderate Impairment


3 – Moderate-Severe Impairment


4 – Severe-Profound Impairment


E2


Impaired Cognitive Function


R2


Language


W2


C2


Executive  Functions


Visual Spatial


Figure 5–3.   target Assessment snapshot for Winnie. 


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity


1.  What would you do to determine if Winnie’s processing deficit is an aphasic symptom or simply a complication of her lethargy? 


2.  Why will Winnie benefit from multimodality cueing? 


3.  Which of Winnie’s strengths can you use to facilitate improvement in her weaker areas? 


4.  Given her symptoms, what type of subcortical aphasia does Winnie exhibit? 


5.  Why would you want to facilitate Winnie’s self-monitoring of her speech output? 


Treatment Considerations


Winnie’s lethargy will affect her ability to participate in therapy, especially in the acute phase. Therefore, the clinician’s first task is to arouse the patient to a level of alertness (LOA) that supports her ability to participate in therapy. Daily monitoring of her LOA is essential for determining when to initiate direct intervention. Noting the changes in her gaze, eye contact, facial expressions, and so forth, are practical ways to monitor her LOA prior to each session. The three primary areas that need to be addressed in this case in order to optimize Winnie’s functional communication are:


n  Word retrieval


n  Auditory comprehension


n  Semantic paraphasias


Once her level of alertness (LOA) supports direct treatment, consider the following: n  It is important to demonstrate patience. Winnie may need more time to process a simple command and respond. 


  144  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch n  Supplement information presented auditorily with pictures and words in large print format. This will optimize her response by engaging her visual attention system. 


n  Train Winnie in the use of self-cuing strategies to compensate for her word retrieval deficit. For example, you can teach her how to use phonemic self-cues to facilitate word retrieval. You can also instruct her in self-cueing with descriptive cues, that is, describe the object’s characteristics, but this may be more difficult for her due to her semantic paraphasias. 


n  Contextual cues methods can be effective, that is, avoid confrontation naming approaches but use and talk about objects in a functional context related to a purpose. For example, talk about getting dressed for the day and facilitate discussion about the necessary items needed to accomplish this activity of daily living. Consider cotreating with occupational therapy during morning ADL treatment. 


n  To develop the ability to self-monitor, speech output is essential in a patient presenting with semantic paraphasias. This can be very challenging for the clinician depending on the severity of the auditory comprehension impairment. However, there are a few things that you can do to optimize this function. First, always use an auditory alerting signal to increase Winnie’s attention to the incoming signal. This can be a tap on the desk or even a statement such as “Winnie, listen.” If you ask Winnie an open-ended question such as, “What do you put on your feet?” and she answers, “hat” instead of “shoe” try the following method. First, ask her if “hat” was correct. If she says, “No,” you can facilitate the target word with a phonemic cue. On the other hand, if she said, “Yes,” indicating her inability to self-monitor, then provide the correct word accompanied by a picture or real object of the target. 


The clinician can heighten Winnie’s awareness of her errors by feeding back the incorrect word choices with a questioning intonation. Be sure to instruct Winnie to “listen to herself very carefully” so that she can pick out her incorrect word choices. She would then use her self-cuing techniques for the naming that you trained. Notice how self-monitoring and naming are entwined in this case, and in the many others that you will encounter. 


Therapeutic goals Using A-FroM (Kagan et al., 2008) Winnie is a quiet but sociable person. She has good and reliable support from her family and friends. She enjoys working on her crafts and engaging in cultural activities outside of the home. Her goals will primarily focus on her conversational skills, reduction of her paraphasias, attention, and memory. 


1.  Winnie will develop a categorical inventory of words that she commonly uses in varied social settings and in the home environment, for example, supermarket, and so forth. 


 


5.  other AphAsic sYndroMes  145


2.  Winnie will utilize the words in her inventory in order to minimize paraphasias and word retrieval problems during spontaneous interactions. 


3.  Winnie will identify her paraphasic errors using audiotaped playback. 


4.  Winnie will identify paragraphic errors in her writing, supported by the clinician. 


5.  Winnie will use any expressive modality to her to provide the correct term with cueing as needed from the clinician. 


6.  Winnie will participate in cultural and craft-making activities at the heritage center in order to promote social engagement. 


7.  Winnie will be trained in the creation and use of a daily memory log. 


8.  Winnie will complete a selected attention task, for example, trail-making, cancellation, mazes, with a verbal prompt as needed to complete the task. 


Figure 5–4 provides the A-FROM domains (Kagan et al., 2008) for Winnie that were used to formulate her therapeutic goals. 


Participation in life situations = 


Enjoys social activities related to her 


Vietnamese culture; enjoys making crafts 


and cooking ethnic food. 


Communication & 


Personal, identity, 


language 


Living 


attitudes & feelings = 


environment = 


with 


Very lethargic; 


Good social support 


variable alertness; 


from family


fam  and


aphasia


and 


cooperative


cooperativ & 


awar





e


awar  


heritage center. 


of deficits. 


Language & related impairments = 


Difficulty maintaining discourse; semantic 


paraphasias; reading functional with large 


print at word level; functional for ADL 


needs. 


Figure 5–4.   A-FroM Model for Winnie. 


  146  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch primary progressive Aphasia


erative nature. It is a form of dementia characterized 


by a degeneration of the language functions, read-


ing, writing, speaking, and comprehension. Onset is 


Introduction


insidious, and the average age of onset tends to be 


around 60 years. The incidence is higher in males 


Primary Progressive Aphasia (PPA) can be classi-


than females. There is a slow and gradual decline 


fied as a clinical syndrome with three variants based 


often presenting as a slowly progressive aphasia. 


on motor speech, linguistic, and cognitive features 


PPA can be associated with other neurologic symp-


(Wilson et al., 2010). PPA is also known as a cortical 


toms and these include dysarthria, dysphagia, oral 


degeneration syndrome (Caselli, 1995). The three 


apraxia, right central facial droop or weakness, 


variants of PPA are  nonfluent/agrammatic,  seman-right extremity weakness, and limb apraxia (Kav-


 tic, and  logopenic. Patients presenting with the non-rie & Duffy, 1994; McNeil, 1998). On autopsy, other 


fluent/agrammatic variant had speech characterized 


pathologic diagnoses have been associated with PPA. 


by slow rate, articulatory distortions, paragramma-


These include progressive supranuclear palsy, cor-


tisms, and limited linguistic complexity. For those 


ticobasal degeneration, corticonigral degeneration, 


presenting with the semantic type of PPA, their 


amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and Creutzfeldt-


speech was characterized by a normal rate, but very 


Jacob disease (Mandel, Alexander, & Carpenter, 


few syntactic and articulatory errors. However, they 


1989). Initially, memory and other cognitive abili-


exhibited increased lexical retrieval deficits and loss 


ties, as well as personality, remain intact. However, 


of semantic knowledge about objects and people. In 


over time, other mental faculties begin to deteriorate. 


patients with the logopenic variant, speech rate was 


Patients with early signs of PPA initially present 


more normalized, and articulatory distortions and 


with word finding difficulties in both speaking and 


syntactic errors were less evident. However, their 


writing tasks. They also demonstrate semantic word 


speech was characteristically hesitant and halting 


substitutions (car/ bus), phonemic word substitu-


with long pauses due to phonological impairments 


tions (pin/bin), and circumlocutions (“I went to the 


affecting word-retrieval. Impaired repetition also 


place that you buy the paper,” referring to “I went to 


occurred frequently in patients with the logopenic 


the newsstand”). In the early stages of this process, 


variant of PPA and, therefore, the clinical sympto-


they can maintain normal activities of daily living 


mology of this variant is said to closely resemble 


because memory and other cognitive skills are still 


conduction aphasia. The site of degeneration in PPA 


intact. These patients have difficulty following con-


is usually in the left frontotemporal-parietal region 


versations and participating in groups. They have 


(perisylvian) although reduced speech rate in indi-


diminished use of expressive language, and their 


viduals with PPA was linked to cortical atrophy in 


verbal output can be devoid of meaning. Later in 


both the anterior and posterior regions of the brain. 


the disease process, they demonstrate difficulty with 


Deficits in the frontal area were linked to motor 


numbers and performing simple mathematical cal-


speech impairment and syntactic abnormalities, 


culations. Research has found that that any type of 


and lexical retrieval deficits were associated with 


aphasic symptom is possible and that individuals at 


anterior and inferior temporal regions. Lesions in 


earlier stages tend to sound fluent. However, as the 


the posterior temporal regions were linked to pho-


disease progresses, individuals progress to a more 


nological errors and disruptions to speech fluency 


nonfluent expressive profile (Weintraub, Rubin, & 


(Wilson et al., 2010). 


Mesulam, 1990). 


These findings reveal the multidimensional 


aspects of PPA. 


 Diagnosing PPA


Characteristics


Research by Henry and Grasso (2018) identified a 


two-step process for the diagnosis of primary pro-


PPA is of unknown etiology and is progressive and 


gressive aphasia (PPA). First, cognitive and behavioral 


treatment can be challenging because of its degen-


functioning should be normal in the early stage. The 


 


5.  other AphAsic sYndroMes  147


diagnosis should also the level of communication 


 Treating PPA


difficulty during the individual’s execution of their 


ADLs, without other concomitant physiological or 


Traditional strategies used for people with aphasia 


mental disorders. Second, a PPA subtype should be 


have not been found effective when treating those 


confirmed because that may be a predictor of prog-


with PPA, but there is evidence that people with 


nosis and etiology of the disease process. Degenera-


primary progressive aphasia (PPA) may experience 


tion of the frontotemporal area is most commonly 


language gains with speech and language therapy, 


observed in individuals with  semantic  and  nonflu-especially early in the disease process (Khayum, 


 ent agrammatic types of PPA, whereas Alzheimer’s 


Wieneke, Rogalski, Robinson, & O’Hara, 2012). Com-


pathology is most often identified in individuals pre-


pensatory strategies are typically used to improve 


senting with the  logopenic  variant. If an individual functional communication in these individuals and 


is diagnosed with the semantic variant, then anomia 


it is recommended that treatment be short over the 


and word comprehension must be evident. They 


course of the disease. Clinicians must engage family 


must also demonstrate three of the following defi-


members early in the diagnosis so that they can be 


cits: impaired object knowledge, surface dyslexia/


counseled and educated regarding the course of the 


dysgraphia, spared repetition, and spared grammar/


disease and the strategies that can be used to facili-


motor speech. If an individual is diagnosed with 


tate and maintain communication if possible. For 


the nonfluent/agrammatic type of PPA, there would 


example, family members should be trained in aug-


agrammatism or apraxia of speech. Additionally, they 


mentative alternative communication (AAC) tech-


must present with two of the following impairments: 


nologies. In the early stages, the speech-language 


spared object knowledge, spared single-word com-


pathologist can work on self-cueing along with 


prehension, or impaired sentence comprehension. 


family-initiated cueing techniques (semantic, pho-


In patients diagnosed with the logopenic variant, 


nological, and/or orthographic) to assist with word 


one would expect to see impaired word-finding and 


retrieval. Conversational scripts can also increase 


impaired repetition. They must also present with 


functional communication. Treatment consistency 


three of the following impairments: phonological 


and intensity are critical elements to successful 


errors in speech, spared motor speech, spared single-


intervention. Other beneficial suggestions include 


word comprehension, spared object knowledge, and 


speaking slowly while facing the person, using 


an absence of agrammatism. The Progressive Apha-


supplemental gestures, giving single instructions 


sia Severity Scale (PASS; Sapolsky, Domoto-Reilly, & 


with basic grammar and vocabulary while reducing 


Dickerson, 2014), described in this text, is an excel-


distractions can all help the person with PPA do 


lent instrument to help identify symptoms and track 


their best. AAC devices, either low-tech or high-tech 


the progression of PPA. The most effective method 


devices using pictures, often become necessary as 


for treatment planning is to use subtyping. 


the disease progresses (Khayum et al., 2012). 





148  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch


 Case Scenario:  Luis


© Monkey Business 


images


— dreamstime.com


 History and Physical (H & P):   58-year-old, right-handed, Hispanic male, taken to physician’s office by daughter who complained of his speech and language difficulties, right extremity clumsiness, no gross physical weakness, noted difficulty with word finding, articulation of speech unclear with sound substitutions. Luis is cognitively intact according to his daughter. 


 Past Medical History (PMH):  Patient complains of language difficulty over 2 years, previous imaging studies have identified focal atrophy in language zone, slight HTN but otherwise in good health. 


 Social History:   Widower with one adult daughter, lives with daughter in two-bedroom apartment, worked as a retail clerk at a local home improvement store (duties now limited to stock clerk due to difficulty communicating). Patient is cognitively intact and does not believe he is having any difficulty with his mental abilities; independent in most ADLs (activities of daily living) at home and at work. 


 Surgical History:   Hernia repair 10 years prior. 


A Functional Analysis of Luis’s 


primary progressive Aphasia


Luis’s ability to understand language is intact (Figure 5–5 shows Luis’ Diagnostic Profile and Figure 5–6 shows his Target Assessment Snapshot). He enjoys interacting with others in conversation although he is often frustrated by his word-finding difficulties and reduced speech intelligibility. Despite his frustration and looming depression, Luis remains motivated to improve his functional communication. 


ed 





iz


e 





ated 


pressiv


 


ly categor


ex


t is generally 


. 


raphasias:


. 


erage phrase 


bu


. 


Pa


Semantic paraphasias 


are present with


similar


words often 


substituted. 


and motiv


rbally


. Av


ries 


e, 


ve


bl


va


wing:


onality Characteristics:


Identifying Objects & 


Their Functions:


WFL


rs


les of 


rbal 


. 


Dra


WFL


. 


Pe


:


ru


ve


r ADL needs


ve


t his 


Fluency:


Diminished use of 


language


length 


4 words or less


ct his 


em solving skills and reasoning 


fo


bu


fe


rsa-


le to spell common words when 


en the word 


bl


rsa-


Oral Spelling:


Ab


giv


Executive Functions:


Pro


intact 


ia 


nve


Current 


Pleasant, socia


to impro


rsation 


hrrt


nve





tions 


. 


sational 


r  compre-


nve


by


ve


  


. 


Pragmatic Skills


Understands the 


co


word-finding, and 


nonfluency af


pragmatic language


ver


distor


we


io-


rized 


ry


ho


s. 


t deter


: 


ticulation:


bu


ticulato


ragraphic. 


l with multiple co


Ar


Mild spastic dysa


characte


ar


and  dysprosody


 


tner


Written Spelling:


Pa


standing Con


ely intact; 


ve


WFL 


y on a fluent 


Emotional Lability:


None noted. 


Under


Speech:


Relativ


hension is  impaired at the co


tional le


tional par





s. 


sational Ability


s. 


rsation. 


. 


ver


le to carr





semantic and 





. 


nve


Oral Reading:


Oral reading is 


rates as word length increases


 


:


by


r ADL


ve


Con


Unab


co


fo


rial is good 


y 


iate inflection, 


y:


s. 


rized 


r words and 


ely intact. 


Memory


Procedural, semantic and episodic 


WFL 


s. 


fo


osod


ythm, and stress


ustrated and 


nts to sa


Pr


Aprosodic speech with


inappropr


rh


:


ated to impro


Self-generated:


Characte


phonological paraphasia


frry


val-Naming:


xical 


wa


Frustration:


Ve


becoming depressed. 


Motiv


standing Stories & 


wn 


Often states he 


aragraphs


ragraph length mate


vel Comprehension:


 


val. 


Under


P


Comprehension 


sentences is relativ


Pa


for concrete concept


s. 


xical Retrie


ie


ws what he 


Le


Difficulty with le


retr


kno


but can’t find the word


int and identify photos 


. 


wn and unkno


. 


Sentence-le


WFL


wareness:


xts


or basic word


Visuospatial Skills:


Can read pr


and pictures


are of speech 


Intelligibility:


WFL in kno


conte


Writing to Dictation:


WFL f


Deficit A


Aw


production and language 


difficulties and attempts to 


self-correct. 


Executing Commands:


WFL 


 


Repetition Ability:


Repetition of 


multisyllabic words 


is impaired. 


s. 


 


. 


. 


ear


Yes/No 


profile for Luis. 


ys and 


vel Comprehension:


or counting, 


or concrete and 


or common word


w rate of speech. 


wering 


rd-le


ying:


tness:


utomatic Speech:A WFL f reciting the alphabet,  stating da months of the y Rate:


Slo


Ans


Questions:


WFL f


personal questions


Wo


WFL


Cop


WFL f


Attention/Concentration:


WFL


Aler


WFL


iagnostic 


 


d


h


y


–5. 


vioral


 5


Speec


uditor


re


Language


A


Reading


Written


Expression


Expression


Cognition


Beha


Symptoms


Comprehension 


iguF





149


  150  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch 1 – Normal


Attention


Memory


2 – Mild-Moderate Impairment


3 – Moderate-Severe Impairment


E3


4 – Severe-Profound Impairment


Impaired Cognitive Function


R1


Language


W2


C1


Executive Functions


Visual Spatial


Figure 5–6.   target Assessment snapshot for Luis. 


Luis is aware of his speech and language difficulties and tries to self-correct; however, his family is skeptical about his true understanding of the progressive nature of this disease process. Cognitively, Luis demonstrates good attentional skills and is very willing to work in therapy. His episodic, semantic, and procedural memory systems for ADLs are functioning within normal limits at this time, based on his activities in the home. Visuospatial skills appear intact, and he is able to read, print, and identify photos and pictures. Currently, Luis demonstrates normal problem-solving skills and can reason to make appropriate decisions during the day at home. For example, Luis can dress and groom himself and can prepare a simple meal independently. He still plays poker and rummy with his close friends regularly, with an adaptive tray for card organization and manipulation. 


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity


n  Given that this patient has articulation difficulties and oral apraxia, what information in his history helps to differentiate apraxia from dysarthria? 


n  In what ways do this patient’s symptoms resemble nonfluent aphasia? 


n  What would be your rationale for providing treatment or not providing treatment to Luis? Select a position and defend it based on the information about PPA and Luis’s profile. 


n  What kind of counseling and education would you provide to Luis’s family? Please include content information as well as emotional support. 


 


5.  other AphAsic sYndroMes  151


Treatment Considerations


Luis presents with many strengths in the communication modalities. His auditory comprehension and reading comprehension are near normal. He is able to understand linguistic material at the paragraph level and is able to follow a conversation with one communication partner. Luis is able to count and name the days of the week and the months of the year, which are important for ADL 


needs. His sentence length is four words or fewer. Luis’s primary weaknesses are his dysarthria and his word-finding difficulties. These two deficits combine to reduce Luis’s ability to be a functional communicator in all social contexts. 


However, a complication in Luis’s case that is not found in the other aphasic syndromes is that PPA is progressive and degenerative. Because Luis has a strong social-support network, is motivated to engage in treatment, and has other cognitive strengths (attention and memory), treatment should be considered. Because of the nature of Luis’s profile, the clinician needs to have multiple foci of treatment, which are:


n  Maintaining functional communication over the long term of the disease process, as possible, using any modality available to Luis


n  Building on Luis’s stronger language skills to optimize his functional communication in the short term


n  Establishing an alternative communication method, for example, gesture or augmentative devices


n  Train Luis in the use of compensatory speech strategies to increase his speech intelligibility in known and unknown contexts. 


n  Facilitate word-finding ability to reduce frustration and increase verbal fluency. 


n  Provide ongoing family counseling and education regarding the goals and procedures of therapy across the course of the disease. 


Therapeutic goals Using A-FroM (Kagan et al., 2008) Luis complained of language difficulties over a two-year period. Previous imaging studies identified focal atrophy in language areas. Luis’ goals will focus on improving his ability to participate in social activities even with his conversational restrictions. He is cognitively intact at this time. He has good family support, so including the family in his treatment and home exercises is indicated. 


1.  Luis will participate in a support group for people with aphasia to optimize conversational skills. 


2.  Luis will participate in preliminary training with selected AAC devices. 


3.  Luis will use compensatory speech strategies at the conversational level to optimize his speech intelligibility. 


  152  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch 4.  Luis and his family will participate in counseling for his frustration and looming depression. 


5.  Luis will be referred to occupational therapy for support with leisure activities incorporating his interests in building projects. 


6.  Luis will describe the process associated with preferred activities, such as home improvement, gardening, cooking, and so forth. using his intact procedural memory skills. 


Figure 5–7 provides the A-FROM domains (Kagan et al., 2008) for Luis that were used to formulate his therapeutic goals. 


Participation in life situations = Enjoys 


home improvement projects and working 


part-time as a clerk


Communication & 


language 


Personal, identity, 


environment = 


Living with 


attitudes & feelings = 


Lives with supportive 


primary 


Remains motivated 


daughter; able to 


to improve 


work; however, 


progressive 


communication; ; 


anomia, dysarthria, & 


aphasia


pleasant & sociable 


comprehension in 


although frustrated. 


groups are barriers. 


Language & related impairments = 


Word-finding affecting conversation; 


semantic paraphasias; mild spastic 


dysarthria; comprehension difficulties in 


groups; reading functional; writing 


paragraphic. 


Figure 5–7.   A-FroM model for Luis. 


 


5.  other AphAsic sYndroMes  153


Acquired Alexia and Agraphia


then be read aloud. If the  lexical route  is used, the EVA works with a  morphological decomposer. In this context, for example, a young child learning to read 


Characteristics


the word  teacher  will decompose the – er  morpheme as the lexical marker for “one who teaches.” Another 


To understand the processes at work in alexia, it 


example of morphological decomposition is in the 


is necessary to provide some fundamental knowl-


morph – ology,  meaning “the study of,” being sepa-edge of normal reading. The goal in reading is for 


rated from the morph attached to it — rheumatol-


words to be comprehended via print, yet it is pos-


ogy, biology, morphology, and so forth. Therefore, 


sible for a person to read without obtaining any 


in the lexical route, these words produce semantic 


meaning from the text. However, initially, in order 


representations for comprehension of the written 


to read with meaning, one must connect letters to 


word. Ultimately, the insular cortex automatizes the 


sounds that blend together to form words or read a 


process to permit rapid automatic word recognition 


word as a whole unit. Words then activate semantic 


with comprehension. Information is sent to the fron-


knowledge, and the written text can be understood. 


tal lobes for reading aloud (Duffy & Geschwind, 


Once this process becomes automatic, an individual 


1985). It is important to understand that the phonic, 


typically reads fluently via whole word recognition. 


direct, and lexical routes are operating simultane-


The following sections introduce the three routes 


ously in a normal, fluent reader. 


of normal reading. With this knowledge, the reader 


should better comprehend the processes of phono-


logical alexia, surface alexia, and deep alexia. 


Alexia


 Characteristics of Normal Reading


An individual can have a breakdown in any of the 


three reading routes: a breakdown in the phonic 


The visual information presented as words on the 


route produces a phonological alexia; a breakdown 


page is projected to the extrastriate cortex in the 


in the direct route may lead to surface alexia; a 


right occipital lobe. Early visual analysis (EVA) of 


breakdown in the lexical route may lead to a deep 


words can be interpreted via three reading routes: 


alexia.  Graphemes, or letters corresponding to the phonic,  direct, and  lexical. For the phonic route, sounds of a language, are converted to sounds 


there is an EVA for letters. This requires learning 


which can be read. The graphemes also activate the 


abstract symbols as graphemes (written letters cor-


semantic system when read and understood. A foun-


responding to sounds in a language). Here, visual 


dational process necessary for reading and writing 


information travels via the corpus callosum to the 


requires the ability to turn sounds into letters, that 


left temporal lobe for phonemic coding. After the 


is, phonemes into graphemes, so that the meaning 


letters are parsed or separated for individual coding, 


of a word can be activated, and thus understood by 


graphemes are connected with phonemes (sounds 


the reader. 


for the letters) to be blended into words. Auditory 


According to Beeson and Hillis (2001), the 


cues help decipher the word through the angular 


semantic system is at the central point in the read-


gyrus and the supramarginal gyrus. For example, 


ing and writing process (p. 573). They depict both 


children learning to read the word  cat  via the  pho-lexical-semantic  and  sublexical  routes for both read-nic route  will learn the corresponding sound for ing and writing. There are three primary routes that 


each letter. After the letters are parsed for individual 


can activate the semantic system: the  visual repre-


coding, they are blended together to sound out the 


 sentation (object or picture), the  phonological input word  cat  and connect it with its real-life object. If lexicon route (sound-to-letter correspondence), and the  direct route  is used, the EVA works with whole the  graphemic input lexicon route (letter-to-sound words. Whole word recognition travels to Broca’s 


correspondence). The visual representation route 


area through the arcuate fasciculus. The word can 


uses a visual object or picture to convey meaning. 


  154  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch This direct path allows a person to see an image, 


impairment of word recognition or pure alexia. In 


for example, a flower, and know what it is. The pho-


a   neglect alexia, prefixes are more in error than nological input lexicon route converts a phoneme 


suffixes. The patient presenting with an  attentional 


into a letter that can be written and read. This does 


 alexia will crowd letters together and merge words. 


not guarantee meaning. The third route is the gra-


Leff et al. (2001) investigated single-word reading 


phemic input lexicon. Letters in print correspond 


in patients with hemianopsia and pure alexia. Pure 


to sounds that can then be read. This activates the 


alexia has been defined as a severe disturbance in 


semantic system when the word is understood. Neu-


reading comprehension with linguistically accurate 


rologic disease or damage can impair processing of 


writing, normal oral spelling, and the absence of 


the reading-writing system, so that comprehension 


aphasia or dementia. It has been noted that alexia 


and production of written words are no longer pos-


resulting from a middle cerebral artery (MCA) stroke 


sible. Word length, word frequency, and the concrete 


accompanies a generalized language disorder. A per-


nature of the word itself all contribute to the prob-


son with a mild naming deficit may also have pure 


lems individuals have with reading. 


alexia if it is associated with a left posterior cere-


There are two broad classifications of alexia: 


bral artery infarct. Although rare, there have been 


 central  and  peripheral. Central alexia is found in the reported cases of pure alexia without hemianopsia, 


presence of aphasia. Normal readers read by sound 


and for those individuals, there was often a general-


and by sight, that is, by sounding out words and 


ized language disorder (Iragui & Kritchevsky, 1991; 


by recognizing words. For example, recognizing the 


Sinn & Blanken, 1999). 


word  the,  yet sounding out the word  bibliography, based on sound pattern and spelling rules in English. For a person with central alexia, there is impair-


Agraphia


ment in using these two reading routes, producing 


the observable alexia. Table 5–2 provides a review 


Agraphia (or dysgraphia) is a term used to indicate 


of the types of central alexia, the damage incurred, 


a writing impairment. Agraphia reflects a lexical-


and the salient features (Beeson & Hillis, 2001). 


semantic breakdown. Links between written words 


Peripheral alexia is defined as reading difficulties 


and their meanings are impaired. Letters and sound 


that occur without a concomitant aphasia. Table 5–3 


associations are often affected.  Deep agraphia 


provides an overview of peripheral alexia profiles. 


involves impairment with written semantics. High 


There are five types of peripheral alexia. A patient 


frequency words, high-imagery words, and nouns 


with  global alexia reads very slowly and/or inac-


are often written with greater ease. Patients pre-


curately, but can recognize letters, and numbers. 


senting with deep agraphia make substitutions of 


A patient with  pure alexia cannot read words and 


one word for another word, although semantically 


needs a letter-by-letter strategy to do so. When the 


related (e.g., table for chair). In that situation, there patient spells the word aloud, reading comprehen-is a disturbance in sublexical and lexical processes 


sion is better.  Hemianopic alexia is characterized by required for spelling.  Lexical agraphia, also known an inability to read prefixes and suffixes. Pure alexia 


as surface agraphia, is a written language impair-


results from an inability to map letters in a familiar 


ment in which the person relies heavily on sound-to-


sequence to mental representation of the word. For 


letter conversions. Words with irregular spellings are 


those with pure alexia, it is a right hemianopsia that 


often written as they sound (“right” written as “rit”). 


may impede single-word reading due to an inability 


Phonological agraphia is the term used to describe 


to see letters at the end of a word. The work of Leff 


the impairment experienced by a person who can-


et al. (2001) demonstrated that patients with hemi-


not write nonwords (for example, “prask”) due to 


anopic alexia are activating the left occipitotempo-


sublexical sound-to-letter conversion problems; 


ral junction, although there was lack of input from 


however, patients with phonological agraphia can 


the ipsilateral primary and prestriate visual cortex. 


write familiar words.  Surface agraphia is another Therefore, it was determined that destruction of the 


term used to describe an acquired writing impair-


left occipitotemporal junction can result in a severe 


ment whereby the person reads by converting each 


Table 5–2.   types of central Alexia Central Alexia


damage


salient Features


phonological Alexia  


•  Cannot sound out the phonemes 


•  Cannot sound out words


(reads by sight)


associated with the graphemes, so 


•  Sound-symbol disassociation


the meaning of words cannot be 


obtained (impaired graphemic input  •  Relies on word shape to facilitate reading lexicon) 


•  Uses memory as a strategy to facilitate 


reading. 


•  May benefit from retraining letter-to-


sound correspondence


surface Alexia 


•  Impaired representation of 


•  Visually perceived words that were once 


(reads by sound)


translating the way the word looks 


familiar are no longer identifiable or 


to its meaning (graphemic input 


meaningful


lexicon)


•  Relies heavily on sounding out words 


•  A variant of this is difficulty noted 


letter by letter to facilitate reading


when the person regularizes 


•  Irregular words such as “rhythm” are 


irregularly spelled words (impaired 


difficult


phonological output lexicon)


•  Has difficulty making reading “automatic” 


•  May regularize a word that is spelled 


irregularly (“yacht” may be read as “yet”)


•  Typically seen in individuals with 


progressive language deterioration or 


other neurodegenerative processes


•  May benefit from work on phoneme-


grapheme pairs to sound out letters in 


words (establish a key word for each 


letter)


•  High-frequency words are easier


•  Written words may cue speech output 


(reading aloud)


deep Alexia 


•  Difficulty recognizing written 


•  There may be semantic errors in oral 


(both sound and sight 


words, understanding their 


reading, visual errors for words that look 


routes damaged)


meaning, and sounding out words 


similar, and substitutions of words within 


using letter-to-sound conversions 


a word class


(semantics and letter-to-sound 


•  Nouns are more easily read compared 


correspondence impairment)


with adjectives due to their conceptual 


saliency


•  Adjectives are easier than verbs, and 


verbs are easier than function words


•  Abstract, low-frequency words are most 


difficult


•  Error words may be linked to the target 


word through association (e.g., reading 


 dinner as  food ). 


•  May benefit from methods to associate 


sounds with letters





155


  156  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Table 5–3.   types of peripheral Alexia


peripheral subtype


damage


salient Features


global


•  Left ventrolateral occipitotemporal 


•  Slow or inaccurate letter naming 


cortex (vLot) or splenium of corpus  • Can recognize letters and often numbers callosum


pure Alexia 


•  Left VLOT or connections


•  Slow and inaccurate reading, short words 


(Alexia without 


•  Can see the letters but cannot 


are easier


Agraphia)


identify the group of letters as a 


•  Cannot recognize strings of letters as 


visual word with meaning (impaired 


words, although knows the letters


access to graphemic input lexicon)


•  Writing is intact


•  Spelling the word helps identify it


•  Usually benefits from letter-by-letter 


reading with shorter words easier or 


palm tracing (using tactile cues to 


imprint traced letters on the palm of the 


hand)


•  May benefit from brief exposure to single 


words with repeated reading aloud


hemianopic


•  Homonymous hemianopia, 


•  Slow but accurate text reading


often macular-splitting, often 


•  May miss prefix or suffix


postgeniculate


•  Left-sided more disabling than when in 


right visual fields


neglect


•  Right parietal lobe


•  Errors on prefixes more frequent than on 


suffixes


Attentional


•  Left parietal lobe


•  Words merged


•  Letter crowding


•  Reads better with isolated words


letter to a sound so that irregularly spelled words 


Various treatment approaches can be found 


are not pronounced correctly. 


in Barriere (2002). One example is that of Beeson, 


For example, the word “know” may be read 


Rewega, Vail, and Rapcsak (2000), in which the goal 


with the /k/ audible. Patients presenting with 


was to help the patient’s problem-solve their spell-


surface agraphia can spell regular and nonsense 



OceanofPDF.com

Acquired Language Disorders: A Case-Based Approach, Third Edition
    
    
    
    
  


  










ing errors. In their research with patients who had 


words using phoneme-to-graphemes conversion, 


spelling difficulties with a mild anomia, they taught 


but they misspell irregular words and homophones, 


them to use plausible misspellings gathered from 


for example, “sweet” and “suite.” Barriere (2002) 


sound-to-letter conversions. After writing words as 


indicated in most people with aphasia, writing is 


they sounded, the task was to teach to patients to 


the most impaired language function. Most often, 


carefully monitor and self-correct spelling errors by 


patients with Broca’s aphasia or transcortical motor 


considering their knowledge of the lexicon. They 


aphasia have nonfluent agraphia and difficulty spell-


used an electronic speller that was able to accept 


ing (Duffy & Ulrich, 1976). Patients who do not have 


plausible misspellings. Another fruitful treatment 


aphasia but have agraphia and alexia usually have 


approach for individuals with Wernicke’s aphasia 


parietal lobe lesions (Roeltgen, 1997). 


and deficits at the level of graphemic output is the 








5.  other AphAsic sYndroMes  157


Anagram, Copy, and Recall Treatment, (ACRT; Bee-


ing and writing skills for people with acquired alexia 


son, 1999). See Chapter 10 for a full description of 


and agraphia. The results indicated that the partici-


this program. 


pants showed improvement because of treatment on 


Johnson, Ross, and Kiran (2019) report on 


lexical and sublexical processing and working mem-


a unique treatment program in a single-subject 


ory and gains generalized to untrained words. Pho-


multiple baseline study where eight participants 


nological and orthographic treatments were more 


received two, two-hour therapy session weekly for 


effective than semantically related ones by providing 


eight weeks, that is, it combines isolated treatment 


greater activation to related word and letter forms. 


steps into a single treatment protocol. The program 


The authors also noted that in people with alexia and 


is a multimodal treatment that targets semantic, lexi-


agraphia, remembering how words were spelled and 


cal, sublexical and buffer processes for reading and 


pronounced made carryover of letter and phoneme 


writing. The treatment methodology assumes that 


substitutions easier. The authors provide appendices 


working on several reading and writing processes 


with a 13-step description of the treatment protocols 


simultaneously can facilitate generalization of read-


used for both reading and writing treatments. 


 Case Scenario:  Sue


© teeraphat 


sirisatonpun


— dreamstime.com


 History and Physical (H & P):  69-year-old, right-handed, Asian female, referred for outpatient cognitive-linguistic therapy 6 months status post (s/p), fell while shoveling snow; patient suffered a left hemispheric stoke in the distribution area of the posterior cerebral artery (PCA). 


 Past Medical History (PMH):  HTN, Diabetes Mellitus Type II, hypercholesterolemia; family history of cardiac problems. 


 Social History:  Divorced, no children, lives alone with two cats, worked part-time as a teacher’s aide in a local elementary school. Patient upset about inability to 


  158  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch work with children reading at school. ADLs (activities of daily living) are within normal limits (WNL). 


 Surgical History: Unremarkable. 


A Functional Analysis of sue’s Alexia


Sue’s reading skills are significantly impaired and should be the focus of her therapy (Figure 5–8 shows Sue’s Diagnostic Profile and Figure 5–9 shows her Target Assessment Snapshot.) The therapist will need to decide if her approach will be restitutive or substitutive based on the residual reading that Sue still possesses. She is unable to participate in her favorite avocation, reading. Combining therapy for her word-retrieval problem with therapy for her alexia would be efficient. Furthermore, the natural relationship between writing/reading/naming will facilitate growth in each. The therapist will have to deal with Sue’s frustration and anger over her impairment, especially as reading held such a prominent place in her life. 


As a consequence, the therapist may want to point out the small successes that Sue makes, counseling her that these building blocks are crucial for any restoration of her reading ability. Sue’s cognitive abilities are within functional limits that allow her to understand the implications of her deficits. This is advantageous from a treatment perspective. 


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity


n  What information indicates that this is a person with a pure alexia? 


n  How will Sue’s reading problems affect her activities of daily living? 


n  What are the family counseling and education issues in this case, and how would you address them? 


n  Prepare a script reflecting a conversation between you and a caregiver who is trying to understand the complexity of Sue’s reading problem. 


n  Write a SOAP note on this patient. Assume that you are seeing her for the first time after the evaluation session. Include three of the short-term therapeutic objectives in your note. 


Treatment Considerations


Sue demonstrates functional receptive and expressive verbal language abilities. 


She is able to communicate effectively with her friends, watch TV with comprehension, and engage in normal phone conversations. Her speech is intelligible in all known and unknown contexts. However, her alexia has had a significant impact on her ability to return to work at the school and enjoy her favorite pas-time of reading. 


 


ly 


 


often 


s. 


. 


raphasias:


r spelling fo


Pa


None


Fluent speech output


, and sad. 


erage phrase length is 


s. 


Oral Spelling:


WFL 


concrete regular


spelled words’


relies on spelling letters 


to read word


wing:


ry


onality Characteristics:


av


Identifying Objects & 


Their Functions:


WFL


Dra


rs


WFL


Pe


:


Fluency:


WFL; 


8+ word


with ability to self-correct. 





l. 


ustrated, ang


abstract 


Executive Functions:


WFL


ve


Current 


Fr


s, 


Some 


sational 


ly spelled 


  


Pragmatic Skills


All social language skills 


WFL. 


ver


r words and 


Can engage in


fo


r regular


w and labored. 


fo


: 


ly spelled word


ticulation:


Slo


Ar


WFL when not reading. 


 


. 


Written Spelling:


WFL 


words. 


standing Con


. 


rsational dialogue with minimal 


nve


ms 





ing 


s. 


Emotional Lability:


None


Under


Speech:


Comprehension 


sentences is intact. 


co


difficulty


Oral Reading: Present difficulty reading aloud especially  with irregular words, and at the sentence le Inaccurate pronunciation of those words  attempted. residual whole-word reading retained. 


or





rf


WNL. 


ke


sational Ability


ythm, 


Pe


. 


ver


 


ry


cted. 


ior to illnes


:


Con


Syntax is 


fe


l pr


as a 


ve


rk





, 


y:


r inflection, rh


Memory


WFL


fo


rsation. 


vel 


cilitate 


ite letters and ta


ve


fa





osod





s aid. 


iting is unaf


n to wo


Pr


WFL 


and stress of speech dur


con


:


. To


lem. 


Self-generated:


Wr


at same le


Can wr


notes as necessa


ustrated with inability 


val-Naming:


words with


Frustration:


Fr


to retur


teacher’


ve


standing Stories & 


letter


ie


Sentence-le


Comprehension:


Impaired due to the reliance 


on sounding out words letter 


by


rereading. 


aragraphs





e ease in discourse


 


ver confrontation 


Under


P


WFL


ve


t, 


xical Retrie


le to retr


we


. 


Le


Ab


relativ


ho


naming is a prob


rms as fo


. Shor


wareness:


Visuospatial Skills:


WFL


are of reading difficulty 


vision at home


y be understood. 


Intelligibility:


WFL when not reading. 


Writing to Dictation:


WFL


Deficit A


Aw


and attempts to impro


daily using closed-caption 


tele


sue. 


Executing Commands:


WFL 


 


Repetition Ability:


Repeating phrases 


and sentences are 


WFL. 


 


. 


vere difficulty reading words


ear


w and inaccurate reading attempted 


, and 


Yes/No 


Slo


profile for 


ys


vel Comprehension:


or counting, 


wering 


rd-le


ying:


tness:


utomatic Speech:A WFL f reciting the alphabet,  stating da months of the y Rate:


WFL when not reading. 


Ans


Questions:


WFL


Wo


Compromised with difficulty processing word 


a whole unit. 


with moderate-se


common, and concrete words ma


Cop


WFL


Attention/Concentration:


WFL


Aler


WFL


iagnostic 


 


.  d


h


y


–8


vioral


Speec


uditor


re 5


Language


A


Reading


Written


Expression


Expression


Cognition


Beha


Symptoms


u


Comprehension 


igF





159


  160  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch 1 – Normal


Attention


Memory


2 – Mild-Moderate Impairment


3 – Moderate-Severe Impairment


4 – Severe-Profound Impairment


Impaired Cognitive Function


E1


R3


Language


W1


C1


Executive Functions


Visual Spatial


Figure 5–9.   target Assessment snapshot for sue. 


n  There are two general types of treatment for alexia —  restitutive  and substitutive. 


n  Restitutive treatment approaches are designed to restore the impaired ability to its premorbid level. This is done by facilitating the underlying processes of reading. 


1.   Present written words on cards and present them rapidly to discourage letter-by-letter reading. 


2.   Use any method and materials that force the patient into relying on the residual whole-word skills that they may have. 


n  Substitutive treatment approaches are designed to compensate for the absent reading skills. 


1.   Allow the patient to write the letter as she reads it, that is, use a kinesthetic modality to support the oral reading. 


2.   Use any multimodality approach — tactile, tactile-kinesthetic, and visual — that can support the patient’s reading of a letter or word. 


Therapeutic goals Using A-FroM (Kagan et al., 2008) Sue’s goals will focus on adjusting to her reading impairment and providing direct therapy for her surface alexia. Referring Sue to a rehabilitation psychologist may benefit her. Her intact verbal language skills and auditory comprehension skills will be good supports for her reading therapy program. 


1.  Sue will optimize her reading skills for communication purposes using the Anagram, Copy, and Recall Therapy (ACRT) program (Helm-Estabrooks & Albert, 2004). 


2.  Counseling is recommended for Sue addressing her frustration and anger as a result of her reading impairment. 


 


5.  other AphAsic sYndroMes  161


3.  Encourage Sue to use an audiobook as support while reading the hard copy version. 


4.  Sue will develop a short picture-based story for young children with clinician support. This combines her interest in reading and teaching as well as addressing her surface alexia without agraphia in a satisfying way. 


Figure 5–10 provides the A-FROM domains (Kagan et al., 2008) for Sue that were used to formulate her therapeutic goals. 


Participation in life situations = 


Enjoys listening to stories; engaged in 


own rehabilitation. 


Communication & 


language 


environment = 


Personal, identity, 


Able to check out 


Living 


attitudes & feelings = 


audiobooks from the 


with 


Frustrated, angry, & 


library to supplement 


sad due to inability to 


reading


readin a


nd


and us


e


us  close


alexia


close-


read & 


wor


wo k


rk. Awa


Aw re


are 


captioning for 


of difficulties. 


enhancing reading 


skills. 


Language & related impairments = 


Conversational skills intact; writing 


unaffected; reading comprehension and 


reading aloud impaired at word and 


sentence level. 


Figure 5–10.   A-FroM model for sue. 


Aphasia in the Bilingual person


lation is bilingual (Grosjean, 2010). Data from the 


2011 American Community Survey Reports from the 


U.S. Census Bureau indicate that 61 million people 


A bilingual individual is defined as someone who 


speak a language other than English at home (U.S. 


regularly uses two languages. Half the world’s popu-


Census Bureau, 2013 American Community Survey 


  162  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Reports). Being bilingual is a unique phenomenon 


Cognitive Control in 


and one should not think that a bilingual individual 


differential Aphasia


is two monolinguals in one body (Khachatryan, Van-


hoof, Beyens, Goeleven, Thijs, & Van Hulle, 2016). 


Bilingual language control is a concept that involves 


This has implications for evaluation and treatment. 


the ability to keep two languages separated to avoid 


Bilingual individuals have an integrated lexicon that 


the interference of one over the other in order to 


has word representations in both languages (Van 


select the language in a given context (Calabria, 


Heuven, Dijkstra, & Grainger, 1998), yet both lan-


Costa, Green, Abutalebi, 2018). The question that 


guages may not be equally impaired as a result of 


generates the most interest among researchers in 


an aphasia. Therefore, the study of recovery patterns 


this area is how to account for the recovery pattern 


in people who are bilingual with aphasia has gener-


in differential aphasia. Is the difference in recovery 


ated interest among researchers. 


pattern due to a loss in the language control network 


or is it due to a more general cognitive impairment, 


that is, a more general cognitive control mechanism 


recovery patterns in 


that controls nonlinguistic tasks as well? 


Bilingual Aphasia


A study by Van der Linden et al., 2008 was 


designed to address the phenomenon of control 


There are two over-arching questions in the study of 


in differential aphasia. The researchers used three 


bilingual aphasia. The first question is, “What is the 


groups. One group had seven bilingual people with 


nature of the recovery pattern in people with bilin-


differential aphasia (PWDA), another group had 


gual aphasia?,” and the second is, “What processes 


eight bilingual people with parallel aphasia (PWPA), 


or structures have the most explanatory power for 


and the third group had 19 control bilinguals with-


the recovery patterns seen in bilingual aphasia?” 


out aphasia who were matched for sex, age, edu-


There are also variables that affect second language 


cation, and language proficiency in L1 (dominant 


acquisition that can impact the outcome of rehabili-


language) and L2 (nondominant language). The 


tation. These include the age of the individual when 


authors were looking for evidence for a general cog-


they acquired the second language, how and where 


nitive control deficit in individuals with differential 


they acquired that second language, and their pro-


aphasia by comparing them to the control group 


ficiency in that language at the time of the incident. 


on interactions across languages and non-linguistic 


Researchers have identified six recovery pat-


control performance. They used two types of tasks 


terns in bilingual people with aphasia (Van der 


in their study, a lexical decision task (linguistic) 


Linden et al., 2018).  Differential aphasia (DA)  is and a Flanker task (cognitive control). In the lexical 


described as one language demonstrating more 


decision task, the participants had to quickly and 


recovery than the other. In  parallel aphasia (PA), accurately identify whether a letter string was an 


both languages recover similarly.  Selective recovery 


existing word in L1 or L2. If the letter string was a 


is defined as a pattern in which only one language 


real word, the participant clicked the Return key, 


recovers, whereas in  successive recovery, one lanand if the letter string was a nonword, they clicked 


guage is fully recovered as the second language is 


the Caps Lock key. This Flanker task requires the 


starting the recovery process. When one language 


participant to look at a row of five arrows pointing 


starts to recover but starts to weaken again as the 


either right, left, or mixed. The instructions to the 


other language recovers, the patient is experienc-


participant were to focus on the center arrow only. 


ing   alternation in recovery. Finally, in a  blended If the center arrow pointed to the right, they were 


 recovery, the patient is switching between languages to press the return key and if it pointed to the left, 


uncontrollably and mixing is observed. A discussion 


they were to press the Caps Lock key. To be suc-


of recovery patterns in bilingual aphasia necessitates 


cessful at this task, the participant had to ignore the 


an understanding of the neuroanatomical structures, 


flanking arrows on either side of the center arrow. 


which could explain those patterns. 


Their response was measured for speed and accu-








5.  other AphAsic sYndroMes  163


racy. The finding of interest was that people with a 


the head of the caudate is responsible for the ability 


differential aphasia had impaired language as well 


to translate languages, select a language, and switch 


as impaired nonlinguistic control which suggested 


comprehension and production between languages. 


that these two networks may share structures. 


It is relevant to both researchers and clinicians that 


The language control network is comprised 


both the language control network and the non-


of the anterior cingulate cortex, the prefrontal 


linguistic control network share some of these 


cortex, Brodmann’s area 47, and the head of the 


structures, such as the prefrontal cortex (Green 


caudate (Van der Linden et al., 2018). The anterior 


& Abutalebi, 2013), and the head of the caudate 


cingulate cortex is thought to be responsible for 


(Grahn, Parkinson, & Owen, (2009). An important 


response monitoring, switching between L1 and 


finding from the Van der Linden et al. (2018) study 


L2, and language selection. The prefrontal cortex is 


is the observation that in people with differential 


responsible for generalized response control, select-


aphasia, non-linguistic control is a factor, and this 


ing a response to a stimulus and/or suppressing a 


supports the hypothesis that general cognitive con-


response. Brodmann’s area 47 is a critical part of 


trol is impaired. One of the clinical implications for 


the language control network because it has been 


this relationship is for designing therapy plans that 


shown to be related to phonological, semantic, and 


incorporates both linguistic control tasks and non-


prosodic functions, as well as some nonlinguistic 


linguistic control tasks in people presenting with a 


functions, including memory and emotion. Finally, 


differential aphasia. 


 Case Scenario:  Hamid


© Monkey Business 


images


— dreamstime.com


 History and Physical (H & P):  52-year-old, right-handed, Jordanian male, admitted to local hospital via EMS while in the United States visiting his sister. He was found by his sister on the floor of the kitchen. She called 911 and he was 


  164  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch brought to the emergency department (ED). On examination in the ED, his level of alertness was significantly reduced and when he spoke, he used Arabic. Blood pressure in the emergency department (ED) was 190/90 and heart rate was 95. 


He responded more accurately in English than in Arabic according to his sister. 


He was diagnosed in the ED with a left frontal thrombotic CVA. 


 Past Medical History (PMH): Hamid has no prior history of stroke. His PMH 


includes hyperlipidemia and hypertension (HTN). He is compliant with his medications. 


 Social History:  Hamid lives in Jordan with his wife. Hamid is bilingual. His first language is a Jordanian dialect of Arabic. He attended NYU after high school in Jordan and graduated with a B.S. degree in business. He stayed at NYU for his MBA. The family reported that he is “fluent in English.” His eldest son, daughter-in-law, and their two children live with him and his wife. He runs a family-owned printing business in his country and is considered successful by cultural standards. Hamid smokes cigarettes but has cut back to one pack per day. He does not consume alcohol due to religious restrictions. Hamid is an observant Muslim. 


 Surgical History: Unremarkable. 


A Functional Analysis of hamid’s Bilingual Aphasia


Once Hamid stabilized medically and was able to participate in a speech and language assessment, he was evaluated by the speech-language pathologist with the assistance of a translator provided through the hospital contract. Prior to the infarct, he was fluent in Arabic and English. For this evaluation, an experienced Arabic-English translator was used. The translator was familiar with the Jordanian dialect that Hamid spoke. Hamid was seated out of bed to a chair and was alert and cooperative for the evaluation. Figure 5–11 shows Hamid’s Diagnostic Profile and Figure 5–12 shows his ALD Target Assessment Snapshot. Based on the results of the assessment, and his presentation in the ED, Hamid is presenting with a recovery pattern consistent with differential aphasia that is, English (L2) recovered receptively and expressively much quicker and more functionally than Arabic (L1). 


Hamid’s telegraphic output is characteristic of a nonfluent aphasia and he is very aware of his receptive and expressive deficits, but appears almost indifferent to them. His reading comprehension is mildly impaired in English but more severely impaired in Arabic. His writing in English and Arabic is telegraphic with orthographic and mechanical errors according to both his sister and the translator. He is frustrated by his sparse verbal output in both languages and repeats the word “Can’t!” as he struggles to express his ideas. Currently, in Arabic, Hamid only produces the word for  home. When his sister speaks to him in Arabic, his auditory comprehension is 50% accurate at the sentence level, whereas, in English, it is 90% accurate. This is problematic from a functional perspective. Hamid is here visiting and must return to Jordan in six weeks. Unfortunately, none of his family members speak proficient English and his Arabic is not showing evidence 


 





:


. 


. 


Paraphasias None noted due to limited output


at times but often 





:


. 


Drawing: Functional for communicating wants  and needs. 


Pragmatic Skills: Social interactions limited. 


Fluency: Poor with verbal fluency at 10% accuracy in Arabic; slightly better in English. 


Identifying Objects & Their Functions: WNL in English; variable in Arabic Oral Spelling


Unable to spell aloud in both languages. 


Executive Functions: Interested in planning activities; problem  solving intact for ADLs. 


Current Personality Characteristics: Frustrated; indifferent pleasant








. 





 


:


50% 


. 


ten Spelling:


Articulation Variable depending on attempted length of speech output Understanding Conversational Speech:  In Arabic at comprehension; in English  90%. 


Writ Poor at word level in both languages but better in English  for basic words. 


Emotional Lability: None noted. 








. 


:


Conversational Ability: Telegraphic output in English and  Arabic; often says word “Can’t.”;  only produces “home” in Arabic





. 


Oral Reading: Limited due to nonfluent aphasia. 





:


. 


Memory Long-term and working memory appears  intact t


. 





Prosody: Intonation contours  used when trying to express himself. 


Understanding  Stories &  Paragraphs Good at paragraph  level in English; variable in Arabic Self-generated: Telegraphic in English  and Arabic Frustration: Frustrated by sparse verbal output. 








Lexical Retrieval /Naming:


Word finding difficulties in both  languages; sparse nonfluen output; Confrontation naming in Arabic moderately impaired


:


n:


-


:





:


. 


Sentence-level Comprehension: Mildly impaired in English; more severely impaired in Arabic


. 


ing to Dictatio


amid. 


Repetition Ability:


Fair for basic well known words in English and minimal  in Arabic Intelligibility


Poor due to apraxia of speech although  intelligible for monosyllabic words. 


Executing Commands Complex commands in Arabic 60%  accuracy; better in English. 


n  


Writ Orthographic and mechanical errors in both languages. 


Visuospatial Skills Within functional limits for his occupation in the  printing business. 


Deficit Awareness: Aware of his receptive and expressive deficits h





. 


 








:


profile for 


evel Comprehensio


:


Automatic Speech: Limited in both languages. 


Rate Cannot determine due  to nonfluent speech


Answering Yes/No Questions: Functional for concrete,  personal questions in English, and questions related to business. 


Word-l Functional in both languages but better in English. 


Copying: Able to copy. 


Attention/ Concentration: Attentive and generally  cooperative. 


Alertness Usually alert. 


iagnostic 


.  d


h


g


n


–11


Language


Speec


Expression


Auditory


Readin


tten Expression


Cognitio


re 5


Comprehension


Wri


u


Behavioral Symptoms


igF





165


  166  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch 1 – Normal


Attention


E4


Memory


2 – Mild-Moderate Impairment


3 – Moderate-Severe Impairment


4 – Severe-Profound Impairment


Impaired Cognitive Function


R2


Language


W3


C2


Executive Functions


Visual Spatial


Figure 5–12.   target Assessment snapshot for hamid of a rapid return, characteristic of a differential aphasia. He may still recover more Arabic, creating more of a selective recovery pattern or a successive recovery pattern (Van der Linden et al., 2018), but this cannot be predicted at this time. 


As a consequence, the clinician must approach this case as a differential aphasia and design a treatment plan that accommodates that fact. 


Hamid will be limited in his ability to participate in social interactions, community events, and even family gatherings due to his lack of recovery in Arabic. 


The psychosocial effects will need to be addressed by the therapist in his home country. Furthermore, because Arabic society is a patriarchal one, his aphasia may have more significant implications for his family relationships. The clinician will need to consider the facilitators and barriers to his rehabilitation as recommended in the ICF model. 


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity


1.  Therapeutic approaches for bilingual patients should address both the linguistic and nonlinguistic networks required for communication (Radman, Mouthon, DiPietro, Gaytanidis, Leemann, Abutalebi, & Annoni, 2016; Van der Linden et al., 2018), using the language with the most recovery. What language would you focus on in Hamid’s case and what do you base your decision on? 


2.  Describe how you would attempt to treat Hamid using a semantic feature-based treatment. 


3.  How would you explain your therapeutic decisions to his family? 


Treatment Considerations


 The Bilingual Aphasia Test (Jordanian Arabic version) (Paradis & El Halees, 1989) was administered by a trained Arabic-English translator. The results of the assess-


 


5.  other AphAsic sYndroMes  167


ment indicated that Hamid had difficulty with complex commands (60% accuracy), confrontation naming was impaired (60%), and synonyms and antonyms were also challenging for him (50%). Verbal fluency and sentence construction were the most impaired at 10% accuracy on those subtests. Hamid has recovered more of L2 (English), and according to Farooqui-Shah, Frymark, Mullen, and Wang (2010), his treatment should be conducted in L2 (English) because it is more effective for cross-linguistic transfer in individuals who present with a differential aphasia. This effect often leads to better outcomes in L1 as well as L2. 


Therapeutic goals Using A-FroM (Kagan et al., 2008) Hamid’s goals reflect his interests. Figure 5–13 provides an A-FROM model for Hamid. In this case, his interests involve his religious community interactions/


events and information related to his printing business. 


Participation in life situations = 


Enjoys community events and printing 


business-related activities. Limited 


ability to verbally participate in social 


interactions, community events and 


family gatherings due to his lack of 


recovery in Arabic. 


Communication 


& language 


environment = 


Limited 


Living 


Personal, identity, 


communication 


attitudes & feelings = 


abilities with family 


with 


Frustrated by his 


because family 


aphasia


sparse verbal output in 


primar


prim ily


ar  speaks 


both languages. 


Arabic; good 


translation services 


available for 


therapy. 


Language & related impairments = 


Telegraphic output, expressive & receptive 


deficits (Arabic more impaired than 


English); slurred speech. 


Figure 5–13.   A-FroM model for hamid. 


  168  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch 1.  Hamid will improve verbal output using a semantic feature-based treatment with a focus on verbs for religious and social activities. 


2.  Hamid will improve reading information related to his printing business. 


3.  Hamid will participate in script training therapy to facilitate expressive language related to business responsibilities and the tools/activities in the printing business. 


4.  Hamid’s family will engage in counseling and education related to bilingual aphasia. 


5.  Hamid will participate in a conversation group using Promoting Aphasics’ 


Communicative Effectiveness (PACE) or Life Participation Approach to Aphasia (LPAA). 


For the semantic feature-based treatment, Hamid will focus on a variation of the treatment using a seven-step process (Kiran & Iakupova, 2011; Kiran & Roberts, 2010; Edmonds & Kiran, 2006) with verbs, as opposed to nouns. The use of verbs has been found to generalize to untrained object names in people with aphasia (Wambaugh, Mauszycki, & Wright, 2014), which provides a double benefit. Seven steps used by Kiran and Iakupova (2011) have been modified and require writing materials that can be erased. 


1.  The patient names an action picture and the therapist indicates if the answer is correct or incorrect. 


2.  The clinician names the correct action. 


3.  The clinician places the printed name of the action below the picture. 


4.  The clinician asks the 6 questions in order from left to right, top to bottom (Figure 5–14 provides a semantic feature treatment using verbs) (Wambaugh et al., 2014) and writes the patient’s responses in the boxes. 


5.  The patient reads the written responses and decides whether they were correct or incorrect and then places them into a “correct” or “incorrect” pile. 


6.  The clinician corrects any incorrect responses. Those items are repeated as in Step 5 until the patient has named all of them correctly. 


7.  The picture is presented again, but the previous written responses are removed. 


The patient is asked the same six questions again and names the actions and attempts a Subject-Verb-Object construction for each item in the six boxes. 








5.  other AphAsic sYndroMes  169


Figure 5–14.   semantic feature treatment with verbs. 


references


Interactive uses of lexical and sublexical spelling 


routes.  Aphasiology,  14, 551–565. 


Calabria, M., Costa, A., Green, D. W., & Abutalebi, J. 


Barrière, I. (2002). Agraphia.  ASHA Perspectives on 


(2018). Neural basis of bilingual control.  Annals 


 Neurophysiology and Neurogenic Speech and Lan-


 of the New York Academy of Sciences,  1426(1), guage Disorders,  12(1), 13–20. 


221–235. 


Beeson, P. (1999). Treating acquired writing impair-


Cappa, S. F., Cavallotti, G., Guidotti, M., Papagno, C., & ment: Strengthening graphemic representations. 


Vignolo, L. A. (1983). Subcortical aphasia: Two clini-


 Aphasiology,  13, 767–785. 


cal CT scan correlation studies.  Cortex,  19, 227–241. 


Beeson, P. M., & Hillis, A. E. (2001). Comprehension 


Caselli, R. J. (1995). Focal and asymmetric cortical 


and production of written words. In R. Chapey 


degeneration syndromes.  Neurologist,  1(1), 1–19. 


(Ed.),  Language intervention strategies in aphasia 


Davis, G. A. (2007). Cognitive pragmatics of language 


 and related neurogenic communication disorders 


disorders in adults.  Seminars in Speech and Lan-


(4th ed., pp. 572–604). Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott 


 guage,  28(2), 111–121. 


Williams & Wilkins. 


Duffy, F. H., & Geschwind, N. (1985).  Dyslexia: A neu-Beeson, P. M., Rewega, M., Vail, S., & Rapcsak, S. (2000). 


 roscientific approach to clinical evaluation.  Boston, Problem-solving approach to agraphia treatment: 


MA: Little, Brown & Company. 


  170  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Duffy, R., & Ulrich, S. (1976). A comparison of impair-tion,  29,  ( 4), 534–564. https://doi.org/10.1080/0960


ments in verbal comprehension in speech, reading, 


2011.2017.1311271


and writing in adult aphasics.  Journal of Speech and 


Kagan, A., Simmons-Mackie, N., Rowland, A., Huijbregts, 


 Hearing Disorders,  4, 110–119. 


M., Shumway, E., McEwen, . . . Sharp, S. (2008). 


Edmonds, L. A., & Kiran, S. (2006). Effect of semantic Counting what counts: A framework for capturing 


naming treatment on cross-linguistic generaliza-


real-life outcomes of aphasia intervention.  Aphasiol-


tion in bilingual aphasia.  Journal of Speech, Lan-


 ogy, 2(3), 258–280. 


 guage, and Hearing Research,  49, 21. https://doi Kang, E. K., Sohn, H. M., Han, M., & Paik, N. (2017). 


.org /10.1044/1092-4388(2006/053)


Subcortical aphasia after stroke.  Annals of Rehabili-


Farooqui-Shah, Y., Frymark, T., Mullen, R., & Wang, B. 


 tation Medicine,  41(5), 725–733. 


(2010). Effect of treatment for bilingual individuals 


Kavrie, S. H., & Duffy, J. R. (1994, November).  Primary with aphasia: A systematic review of the evidence. 


 progressive apraxia of speech. Paper presented at the Journal of Neurolinguistics,  23(4), 319–341. 


annual convention of the American Speech-Language-


Grahn, J. A., Parkinson, J. A., & Owen, A. M. (2009). 


Hearing Association, New Orleans, LA. 


The role of the basal ganglia in learning and mem-


Kennedy, M., & Murdoch, B. (1993).Chronic aphasia sub-ory: neuropsychological studies.  Behavioural Brain 


sequent to striato-capsular and thalamic lesions in the 


 Research,  199, 53–60. 


left hemisphere.  Brain and Language,  44(3), 284–295. 


Green, D. W., & Abutalebi, J. (2013). Language control Kent, R. D. (Ed.). (2004).  The MIT encyclopedia of comin bilinguals: The adaptive control hypothesis.  Jour-


 munication disorders.  Cambridge, MA: Massachu-


 nal of Cognitive Psychology,  25(5), 515–530. https://


setts Institute of Technology. 


doi.org/10.1080/20445911.2013.796377


Khachatryan, E., Vanhoof, G., Beyens, H., Goeleven, A., 


Grosjean, F. (2010). Bilingualism, biculturalism, and 


Thijs, V., & Van Hulle, M. M. (2016). Language pro-


deafness.  International Journal of Bilingual Edu-


cessing in bilingual aphasia: A new insight into the 


 cation and Bilingualism,  13, 133–145. 


problem.  Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Cogni-


Han, M., Kang, D., Bae, H., Oh, G., & Jeong, S. (2003). 


 tive Science,  7(3), 180–196. https://doi.org/10.1002/


Aphasia in striatocapsular infarction may be 


wcs.1384


explained by concomitant small cortical infarctions 


Khayum, B., Wieneke, C., Rogalski, E., Robinson, J., 


of cortical language zones.  Stroke,  34, 259. 


& O’Hara, M. (2012). Thinking outside the stroke: 


Han, Y., Li, E., Tian, J., Chen, J., Wang, H., & Dai, J. 


Treating primary progressive aphasia (PPA).  Per-


(2006). The application of diffusion- and perfu-


 spectives in Gerontology,   17(2), 37–49. 


sion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging in the 


Kiran, S., & Iakupova R. (2011). Understanding the 


diagnosis and therapy of acute cerebral infarction. 


relationship between language proficiency, lan-


 International Journal of Biomedical Imaging,  2006, guage impairment and rehabilitation: Evidence 


20164. https://doi.org/10.1155/IJBI/2006/20164


from a case study.  Clinical Linguistics & Phonetics, Helm-Estabrooks, N., & Albert, M. L. (2004).  Manual 25(6–7), 565–583. 


 of aphasia and aphasia therapy (2nd ed.). Austin, Kiran, S., & Roberts, P. M. (2010). Semantic feature analy-TX: Pro-Ed. 


sis treatment in Spanish-English and French-English 


Henry, M. L., & Grasso, S. M. (2018). Assessment of 


bilingual aphasia.  Aphasiology,  24(2), 231–261. 


individuals with primary progressive aphasia.  Semi-


Kuljic-Obradovic, D. C. (2003). Subcortical aphasia: 


 nars in Speech and Language,  39, 231–241. 


Three different language disorder syndromes?  Euro-


Hillis, A. E., Work, M., Barker, P. B., Jacobs, M. A., 


 pean Journal of Neurology,  10(4), 445–448. 


Breese, E. L., & Maurer, K. (2004). Re-examining 


Leff, A. P., Crewes, H., Plant, G. T., Scott, S. K., Kennard, the brain regions crucial for orchestrating speech 


C., & Wise, R. J. (2001). The functional anatomy of 


articulation.  Brain,  127(Pt. 7), 1479–1487. 


single-word reading in patients with hemianopic 


Iragui, V. J., & Kritchevsky, M. (1991). Alexia without and pure alexia.  Brain,  124(Pt. 3), 510–521. 


agraphia or hemianopia in parietal infarction.  Jour-


Mandel, A., Alexander, M., & Carpenter, S. (1989). 


 nal of Neurology, Neurosurgery, and Psychiatry,  54, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease presenting as isolated 


841–842. 


aphasia.  Neurology,  39, 55. 


Johnson, J. P., Ross, K., & Kiran, S. (2019). Multi-step McNeil, M. R. (1998). The case of the lawyer’s lugubri-treatment for acquired alexia and agraphia (Part 1): 


ous language: Dysarthria plus primary progressive 


Efficacy, generalization, and identification of benefi-


aphasia or dysarthria plus dementia?  Seminars in 


cial treatment steps.  Neuropsychological Rehabilita-


 Speech and Language,  19(1), 49–57. 


 


5.  other AphAsic sYndroMes  171


Murdoch, B., Thompson, D., Fraser, S., & Harrison, L. 


 vey Reports.  Retrieved from https://www2.census 


(1986). Aphasia following non-hemorrhagic lesions 


.gov/library/publications/2013/acs/acs-22/acs-22 .pdf


in the left striato-capsular region.  Australian Jour-


Van der Linden, L., Verreyt, N., De Letter, M., Hemel-


 nal of Human Communication Disorders,  14(2), soet, D., Mariën, P., Santens, P., . . . Duyck, W. (2018). 


5–21. 


Cognate effects and cognitive control in patients 


Murdoch, B. E. (2004). Language disorders in adults: 


with parallel and differential bilingual aphasia. 


Subcortical involvement. In R. E. Kent (Ed.),  The 


 International Journal of Language and Communi-


 MIT Encyclopedia of Communication Disorders. 


 cation Disorders,  53(3), 515–525. 


Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press. 


Van Heuven, J. B. W., Dijkstra, T., & Grainger, J. (1998). 


Nadeau, S., & Crosson, B. (1997). Subcortical aphasia, Orthographic neighborhood effects in bilingual 


 Brain and Language,  58(3), 355–402. 


word recognition.  Journal of Memory and Language, Nadeau, S. E., & Rothi, L. J. G. (2001). Rehabilitation of 39(3), 458–483. 


subcortical aphasia. In R. Chapey (Ed.),  Language 


Vigneau, M., Beaucousin, V., Hervé, P. Y., Duffau, H., 


 intervention strategies in aphasia and related neu-


Crivello, F., Houdé, O., . . . Tzourio-Mazoyer, N. (2006). 


 rogenic communication disorders (4th ed.). Phila-


Meta-analyzing left hemisphere language areas: 


delphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. 


Phonology, semantics, and sentence processing . 


Naeser, M., Alexander, M., Helm-Estabrooks, N., Levine, 


 NeuroImage,  30, 1414–1432. 


N., Laughlin S., & Geschwind, N. (1982). Aphasia 


Vukovic, M., Sujic, R., Petrovic-Lazic, M., Miller, N., 


with predominantly subcortical lesion sites: Descrip-


Milutinovic, D., Babac, S., & Vukovic, I. (2012). 


tion of three capsular/putaminal aphasia syndromes. 


Analysis of voice impairment in aphasia after stroke 


 Neurology,  39(1), 2–14. 


underlying neuroanatomical substrates.  Brain and 


Paradis, M., & El Halees, Y. (1989).  Bilingual Aphasia Language,  123(1), 22–29. 


 Test (Jordanian Arabic version). Hillsdale, NJ: Law-Wambaugh, J. L., Mauszycki, S. C., & Wright, S. (2014). 


rence Erlbaum. 


Semantic feature analysis: Application to confron-


Radman, N., Mouthon, M., DiPietro M., Gaytanidis, C., 


tation naming of actions in aphasia.  Aphasiology 


Leemann, B., Abutalebi, J., & Annoni, J. M. (2016). 


 28(1), 1–24. 


The role of the cognitive control system in recovery 


Webb, W. G., Adler, R. K., & Love, R. J. (2008).  Neurol-from bilingual aphasia: A multiple single-case fMRI 


 ogy for the speech language pathologist.  St. Louis, study.  Neural Plasticity,  16, 1–21. 


MO: Mosby Elsevier. 


Roeltgen, D. P. (1997). Agraphia. In T. E. Feinberg & M. 


Weintraub, S., Rubin, N. P., & Mesulam, M. M. (1990). 


J. Farah (Eds.),  Behavioral neurology and neuropsy-


Primary progressive aphasia: Longitudinal course, 


 chology.  New York, NY: McGraw-Hill. 


neurological profile and language features.  Archives 


Sapolsky, D., Domoto-Reilly, K., & Dickerson, B. C. 


 of Neurology,  47(12), 1329–1335. 


(2014). Use of the progressive aphasia severity scale 


Wilson, S. M., Henry, M. L., Besbris, M., Ogar, J. M., 


(PASS) in monitoring speech and language status in 


Dronkers, N. F., Jarrold, W., . . . Gomo-Tempini, M. L. 


PPA.  Aphasiology,   28(8–9), 993–1003. 


(2010). Connected speech production in three vari-


Sinn, H., & Blanken, G. (1999). Visual errors in acquired ants of primary progressive aphasia.  Brain,  133(7), dyslexia: Evidence for cascaded lexical processing. 


2069–2088. 


 Cognitive Neuropsychology,  16, 631–653. 


Wise, R. J., Greene, J., Büchel, C., & Scott, S. K. (1999). 


United States Census Bureau (2013). Language use in 


Brain regions involved in articulation.  Lancet,  353 


the United States: 2011.  American Community Sur-


(9158), 1057–1061. 






 Chapter 6


rIghT heMIsphere dIsorder


Introduction


daily basis. Furthermore, these extralinguistic and 


paralinguistic impairments can affect the patient’s 


ability to be adequately assessed and, therefore, pro-


Individuals with right hemisphere disorder (RHD) 


duce an inconclusive or incorrect language profile. 


typically do not have language problems as seen 


Thus, the clinician must be alert to the presence of 


in those with aphasia. However, it is now well 


these features during the assessment. 


established that unilateral damage to the right 


hemisphere can cause extralinguistic and paralin-


guistic deficits, which then produce communication 


Characteristics


impairment. Nevertheless, a referral for a cognitive-


linguistic evaluation is not assured. In a retrospec-


tive study, Blake, Duffy, Myers, and Tompkins (2002) 


Not all patients will present with the same com-


reviewed the medical charts of 123 patients who 


municative characteristics (Tompkins & Fassbinder, 


were admitted to an inpatient rehabilitation unit for 


2004), and this causes problems for experimental 


RHD and found that only 45% were referred for 


design and data analysis. This interpatient variabil-


speech-language pathology services, even though 


ity, combined with small sample sizes, affects the 


they presented with treatable communication and 


value of the results in clinical research. Therefore, 


cognitive deficits. This suggests that referrals for 


obtaining a valid representation of the communica-


speech-language pathology services are inadequate 


tion disorder associated with right hemisphere brain 


and underused in this clinical population. 


damage has been challenging. Despite this, research 


The etiology of RHD can be stroke, trauma, 


has been able to identify both verbal and nonverbal 


tumor, or degenerative disease, and damage to the 


communication deficits in this population. 


right cortical and subcortical structures is more dif-


The patient with a RHD presents with percep-


fuse than it is with left hemispheric damage. The con-


tual, cognitive, and emotional deficits. Interpretation 


sequence of this is more widespread dysfunction. As 


of linguistic and nonlinguistic information is prob-


noted above, people with RHD do not demonstrate 


lematic as they do not readily use contextual clues 


frank language impairment, but do demonstrate 


and have difficulty identifying what is important 


deficits in areas related to communication.  Extralin-


information in a communicative interaction from 


 guistic impairments  include poor attentional skills, that which is unimportant. Following conversational 


memory deficits, and visuospatial difficulties.  Para-


rules is difficult, and their speech can sound robotic 


 linguistic impairments  include pragmatic abnor-


due to an inability to vary prosody to reflect their 


malities: lacking cohesive discourse, and tangential 


emotional state at the time. Judgment and problem-


and circumlocutionary verbal output. A patient with 


solving abilities are also challenged, as nonlinguistic 


a clinical presentation that includes these types of 


deficits are a hallmark in RHD. These patients may be 


deficits will have problems in social discourse on a 


disoriented to time and place and have visuospatial  





173


  174  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch deficits, such as a left-sided neglect. Further compli-to understanding pragmatics has value and explana-


cating matters, the majority of RHD patients fail to 


tory power, especially in patients with RHD. Perkins 


recognize their own deficits (anosagnosia). In many 


(2005a, 2005b) introduced the idea that pragmatics 


cases, the patient with RHD does not fully under-


is not an individual ability, but must be treated as 


stand the extent of their disorder. 


a mutually constructed or emergent phenomenon 


between two people in conversation. Their mutual 


goal is to communicate a message. This is not only 


Communication deficits


true for normally functioning people, but also in 


clinical populations whose language functions are 


The following list comprises deficits commonly asso-


impaired. For example, if a clinician asks a client, 


ciated with RHD:


“What did you do today?” and the client responds 


by saying, “Work,” Perkins considers this the client’s 


n  Difficulty organizing information


attempt to maintain the conversational flow, and as 


n  Impaired discourse


such is a complete answer despite the desire for 


n  Difficulty summarizing information in a 


more details and ongoing discourse. Grice (1975), 


meaningful way


considered the founder of the study of pragmat-


n  Impulsivity in their responses


ics, would disagree in the sense that the client’s 


n  Tangential and circumlocutionary speech


response violates the principle of “quantity” in that 


n  Providing unnecessary details in verbal 


not enough information is provided to encour-


communication


age continued discourse. The important difference 


n  Difficulty deciding what is relevant versus 


between using a  Gricean Model  to explain the clini-what is irrelevant to the context of the 


cal findings and  Perkin’s Emergentist Model  is that communicative event


for Perkins, conversation is viewed from the bottom-


n  Difficulty using contextual cues


up and not from the top-down as it is for Grice 


n  Literal interpretation of idioms and 


(Weed, 2011). Grice prefers a logical framework in 


indirect requests


order to understand pragmatics, but Perkins prefers 


n  Pragmatic deficits, for example, speaker’s 


to start with the cognitive and biological elements 


intentions, understanding other’s 


that are readily available to the speakers. Further-


motivation, and following conventions of 


more, Perkins wants to account for both healthy 


conversation


pragmatics and pragmatics of the impaired individ-


n  Reduced sensitivity to facial expression, 


ual, whereas Grice is not so inclined. 


gestures, body language, and the 


Perkins introduces the idea of  equilibrium  to 


emotional content within verbal language


the conversational dyad.  Equilibrium  can happen 


n  Difficulty understanding inferences based 


within an individual or between the two members 


on context clues


of the communication dyad.  Disequilibrium  occurs when a speaker is unable to adequately express the 


desired idea due to linguistic impairment. In cases 


rhd and pragmatic Impairment


like this, the speaker may resort to gestures or facial 


expressions, and the therapist may decide to use a 


Pragmatic impairment because of damage to the right 


yes/no format versus an open-ended format in order 


hemisphere is challenging to both the researcher 


to achieve a successful conversational outcome. 


and the clinician. For the researcher, uncovering 


Here one can see the mutually constructed feature 


the relationship between the right hemisphere and 


that Perkins proposes in the emergentist model. 


its paralinguistic functions is still ongoing and still 


Finally, Perkins believes that pragmatics is based 


unclear, and for the clinician, few efficacious treat-


on three  interacting components:  higher level cogni-ment techniques have been identified for address-


 tion (e.g., theory of mind (ToM),  perception (auditory ing the pragmatic impairments in this population. 


and visual), and  motor function, yet another exam-Weed (2011) suggests that an  emergentist  approach ple of Perkins’ departure from the Gricean model of 


 


6.  right heMisphere disorder  175


pragmatics. Of these elements, the role of that ToM 


process. We also recommend, based on the current 


plays in patients with RHD is uncertain (Weed, 2011). 


research, that the clinician probe the RHD patient’s 


Weed (2011) proposed that conversational 


ability to process complex motion, by examining 


analysis (CA) can be applied to study pragmatics of 


whether they can interpret motion cues (gesture and 


people affected by RHD, primarily because CA takes 


facial cues) in a conversational dyad. 


the conversation between two or more speakers as 


its point of departure. This type of analysis could 


generate a clearer understanding of the conversa-


visual-perceptual deficits


tional elements between an impaired individual 


(e.g., a RHD patient and a nonimpaired speaker). 


The person with a right hemisphere syndrome can 


This in turn can lead to more refined and focused 


present with an array of visual-perceptual impair-


interventions for discourse and pragmatic difficul-


ments.  Visual  and  tactile agnosias  can manifest as ties in those patients. 


an inability to recognize objects. The patient will 


see or handle an object, for example, a coffee cup, 


 The Role of Auditory Perception, 


yet not be able to tell what it is. This can have a 


 Visual Perception, and Motor 


very significant impact on the patient’s activities of 


 Perception in Pragmatics


daily living (ADLs).  Prosopagnosia  is defined as the inability to recognize faces, regardless of how famil-Myers (1999) reported that people with RHD have 


iar those faces are. Here again, one can see the dev-


problems understanding prosody and producing 


astating effects that this type of problem can have 


contextually appropriate prosodic patterns. To use 


on a patient and his or her caregivers. Furthermore, 


the prosodic information of any given speaker, the 


this type of patient may also be unable to read facial 


listener must be able to infer meaning from it as well 


expressions, for example, happy, sad, surprised, or 


as distinguish one pattern from any other. The right 


angry. Difficulty with visual imagery can also have 


hemisphere seems to play a role in these functions 


serious social consequences.  Simultagnosia  is a dis-


(Weed, 2011). 


order in which the patient cannot process the entire 


As far as the role of visual perception in prag-


visual scene before him or her, but only attends to 


matics, Weed (2011) reports on studies that firmly 


one part of the whole. Thus, the person misses the 


support the role of the right hemisphere for glean-


meaning of the image before him or her.  Visual inte-


ing information from faces and facial expressions of 


 gration deficits  are also observed with this popula-the conversational partner. The  fusiform face area 


tion. Patients with this disorder are unable to form 


(FFA) and the  occipital face area  are implicated, and a cohesive visual percept from the stimuli before 


both seem to be right-lateralized. In addition, Weed, 


them. The visual image is not processed as inte-


McGregor, Feidbaek Nielsen, Roepstorff, and Frith 


grated whole, but rather as separate pieces. This 


(2010) reported on RHD patients who had difficulty 


problem along with  spatial disorientation  can affect on a mental-state attribution task that was based 


the patient’s ability to move around safely and effi-


on motor cues. Their findings complemented pre-


ciently in their homes and in the community. 


vious findings of other researchers who indicated 


that the perception of complex motion, biological 


motion, and intentional motion were impaired in 


visuomotor deficits


RHD patients (see Weed, 2011). 


In summary, the research on pragmatics in 


Associated with visual-perceptual problems are 


RHD patients does point to an important role for 


 visuomotor deficits. From a diagnostic perspective, the right hemisphere in processing faces, perceiv-the patient will not be able to produce an accu-


ing auditory information, and interpreting complex 


rate and correct clock drawing, and will be unable 


motion. We recommend that the clinician include 


to construct objects in space, for example, build a 


visuospatial skills, higher-level cognitive functions, 


tower of blocks or draw to express his or her needs. 


as well as auditory processing into the assessment 


Both the drawings and the constructions will be 


  176  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch inaccurate, indicating to the clinician that there is a 


order to access past knowledge and events. Deficits 


visuomotor deficit present. From a functional per-


in both of these areas, although not directly related 


spective, the patient may have difficulty dressing 


to speech and language, will affect the patient’s abil-


himself or herself as the patient is unable to orient 


ity to participate in social communication. 


his or her body to the placement of the clothing 


Clinicians working with RHD patients find 


during dressing. 


that executive functioning is noticeably impaired. 


The neurophysiologic correlates to the relationship 


between the right hemisphere and executive func-


Auditory perceptual deficits


tioning is most commonly seen in patients who are 


experiencing  planning difficulties, impaired  prob-Although auditory perceptual deficits are more 


 lem-solving skills, and difficulty  integrating  informa-often observed with bilateral lesions, it is possible 


tion. The role of attention in all of these functions is 


that the RHD patient will present with some type 


a critical element to performing them successfully, 


of auditory perceptual difficulty.  Sound localization and as noted above, these patients have significant 


difficulty may be observed as well as  auditory agno-


attentional problems (Patterson & Chapey, 2008). 


 sia,  that is, an inability to home in on the source As noted above, there are several nonlinguistic 


of the auditory signal in space and the inability to 


deficits that often are exhibited in persons with RHD. 


recognize the sound as something familiar and/or 


These primarily include left neglect, arousal deficits, 


meaningful. These patients also demonstrate prob-


and attention deficits including selective attention, 


lems with  discriminating prosodic patterns,  similar which is more pronounced in the acute phase of 


to the way that they are unable to discriminate facial 


the stroke. Myers (1998) reports that there tends to 


expressions to convey meaning. The inability to per-


be less orientation to the environment in general. 


ceive music appropriately is also a feature associ-


These patients also tend to have slower reaction 


ated with RHD patients, and this may be a factor in 


times to both visual and auditory input, and in gen-


the functional life of a patient, which should always 


eral, more intense stimulation is needed to facilitate 


be considered when planning treatment. 


attention than in a normally functioning individual. 


Because RHD patients tend to have reduced per-


formance accuracy over time, attention for tasks is 


Cognitive deficits


best when it is shorter in duration (Bub, Audet, & 


Lecours, 1990). Research indicates that if distracters 


 Attentional problems  are very prevalent in this pop-are present, the person with RHD exhibits slower 


ulation. To sustain a dyadic conversation, both part-


performance and less accuracy in their responses. 


ners must be attentive to the speech signal of the 


Neglect also increases when greater attention is 


other. If the attention of one partner falters, then the 


required to complete a task (Kaplan et al., 1991). 


probability that a successful communicative event 


Another performance deficit of RHD is the 


will occur drops significantly. Furthermore, many 


patient’s difficulty integrating components into a 


patients with RHD present with left-sided neglect, 


whole. For example, the individual may draw a tire 


or an inattention to the left side. This can complicate 


above the car instead of under the car indicating that 


the existing attentional problem because the patient 


they understand the components but have difficulty 


is not able to make eye contact with the communi-


organizing them together into a coherent unit. Dif-


cation partner, unless he or she is on the patient’s 


ficulty integrating and organizing information may 


right side. A thorough chart review and diagnostic 


also impact the patient’s ability to express himself 


evaluation will highlight either of these issues for 


or herself clearly in narrative form resulting in tan-


the speech-language pathologist. 


gential verbal output, that is, staying on topic and 


The RHD patient may present with both  work-


getting to the point (Myers & Blake, 2008). 


 ing memory  and   long-term memory  problems. 


Finally, it is worth mentioning that these para-


Working memory is critical to functional language 


linguistic and extralinguistic deficits are also associ-


processing, and long-term memory is necessary in 


ated with emotional factors. The clinician will note 








6.  right heMisphere disorder  177


very soon after meeting an RHD patient that there 


patients also have an impaired ability to process 


is a flat facial affect, mirrored by a flat emotional 


and produce appropriate prosodic patterns, as well 


affect. They have difficulty conveying emotions, 


as facial expressions that further complicate their 


and consequently, appear distant and remote. These 


social interactions post-stroke. 


 Case Scenario:  Debra


© dmitry 


Bruskov


— dreamstime.com


 History and Physical (H & P): 37-year-old female, right-handed, admitted via Emergency Department with twitching of the left hand and left upper extremity weakness. A CT scan revealed an infarct in the right frontal area, highly suggestive of a cerebrovascular accident. Family reported seizure-like movements × 1 


at bedtime. Left-sided hemiparesis was also noted; left neglect noted. 


 Past Medical History (PMH): Right partial thyroidectomy, insomnia, chronic bronchitis; difficulty with gait, urinary incontinence. 


 Social History: Married; one child (21 months old); PhD professor at a local university


 Surgical History:  status post (s/p) Thyroidectomy for a benign neoplasm. 


A Functional Analysis of debra


Debra’s primary deficit areas are extralinguistic, prosodic, and cognitive. Figure 6–1 


shows Debra’s Diagnostic Profile and Figure 6–2 shows her Target Assessment Snapshot. 


Debra is unable to process the meaning of facial expressions, gestures, and body language. This interferes with her functional communication, as nuanced 


. 


e 


wings


 


impulsiv


lem-solving 


. 


. 


ation; 


raphasias:


Pa


None


. 


r simple line drafo


rbal prob


ks motiv





wing:


ve


onality Characteristics:


’s


Identifying Objects & 


Their Functions:


WFL


Dra


rs


WFL 


lac


Pe


:


-taking rn


Fluency:


WFL


r monosyllabic and multisyllabic fo


iate tu


cts listener


Executive Functions:


Difficulty with 


due to tangential output


fe


Current 


Depressed; 


with her responses


her tangential 


s. 


Oral Spelling:


WFL 


words. 


sational 


  


Pragmatic Skills


Inappropr


noted; 


output af


attention. 


ver


enes


s. 


, and 


. 


ry


. 


enes


r words and 


tions noted. 


fo


: 


ticulation:


inattentiv


ed 


y output


Ar


Mild consonantal 


distor


 


by


Written Spelling:


WFL 


sentences


. 





standing Con


WFL. 


ected 





Emotional Lability:


None


Under


Speech:


Aff


, procedural memo


all 


s. 


ry


ry


sational Ability


disorganiz


r, errors noted at sentence 


e, 


WFL. 


rn


. 


rsation with tangential 


ve


ver


e with 


rbos


nve


we


 


:


Con


Ve


co


and circumlocutionar


Syntax 


r monosyllabic and multisyllabic fo  ho l due to neglect and inattentiv WFL. 


y:


, and 


ve


Oral Reading: WFL  words; le


Memory


Episodic memo


semantic memo


ustration if 


rs corrections


; flattened intonation with


le fr


fe


osod


or


. 





iting functional sentences


versation. 


Pr


Po


reduced stress patte


:


vels


Self-generated:


Wr


and notes 


val-Naming:


r, 


Frustration:


Impatient and impulsiv


noticeab


listener of


standing Stories & 


ve


vel 


wn 


we


aragraphs


or confrontation 


Under


P


WFL at word, phrase


sentence le


 


. Ho


xical Retrie


ls


vel 


Le


WFL f


naming and in con


ve


x paragraph. 


versational le


wn and unkno


. 


. 


le to state the central theme


wareness:


y be 


xts


or words and 


areness of deficits 


y 


Sentence-le


Comprehension:


Functional at the sentence and 


paragraph le


unab


of a comple


Visuospatial Skills:


Left neglect noted. 


aw


Intelligibility:


Good at con


in both kno


conte


Writing to Dictation:


WFL f


sentences


Deficit A


No 


(anosagnosia). 


difficulty noted 


ebra. 


Executing Commands:


WFL 


 


d


Repetition Ability:


WFL; 


with length


sentences (ma


related to attentional 


deficit). 


 


iorates 


. 


Yes/No 


. 


profile for 


le to count to 


. 


vel Comprehension:


ab


ear


or simple and 


atigue


w. 


wering 


rd-le


ying:


; attention deter


tness:


utomatic Speech:


ys and months of 


A


oor


WFL; 


20, recite the 


alphabet, and name 


da


the y


Rate:


Slo


Ans


Questions:


WFL f


abstract questions


Wo


WFL


Cop


WFL


Attention/Concentration:


P


with f


Aler


WFL when well-rested. 


iagnostic 


 


.  d


h


y


–1


vioral


Speec


uditor


re 6


Language


A


Reading


Written


Expression


Expression


Cognition


Beha


Symptoms


u


Comprehension 


igF


178


 


6.  right heMisphere disorder  179


1 – Normal


Atten tion


Memory


2 – Mild-Moderate Impairment


3 – Moderate-Severe Impairment


4 – Severe-Profound Impairment


Impaired Cognitive Function


E2


R


Language


W


2


2


C2


C


Executive   Functions


Visual   Spatial


Figure 6–2.   target Assessment snapshot for debra. 


meanings are missed, making her interpretations of the message very concrete and literal. Furthermore, she cannot accurately determine the speaker’s intentions, which can easily produce misinterpretations. Debra also has a left-sided neglect and consequently will not attend to people and/or objects located on her left side. Communication partners who are not aware that Debra has a left-sided neglect may feel as though Debra is ignoring them. Debra is also very dys-prosodic, making her sound robotic. Therefore, one aspect of her therapy must focus on developing proper pitch variations. This lack of appropriate intonation contours combined with Debra’s flat affect make it challenging to communicate with her. 


Her therapy should also focus directly on attention and neglect as well as the affective and prosodic components of communication. Debra’s long-term goals should include increasing appropriate content in her communication; improving her inferential abilities so she can make meaning of more than just the facts; and facilitating her ability to generate meaning given ADL scenarios. For example, if a visitor walks into Debra’s room and does not immediately greet her, she may not be able to correctly interpret that person’s intentions. She may believe that the visitor is angry with her. Therefore, helping Debra to develop alternate possibilities for people’s behavior may assist her return to the social fabric of life. As noted above, Debra’s inferential skills are weak, and she has difficulty connecting an outcome to previous sequential events. For example, if you tell her that you went outside and then you came back in and were wet, one would infer that it was raining outside. However, Debra may not be able to make that inference and would need some facilitation in order to understand the inferential process. 


Also, reviewing the steps involved in completing a task verbally and in writing and then discussing the sequence prior to attempting the task may help facilitate functional problem-solving for ADL needs. For example, rehearsing and writing out the sequence of steps involved in a common household task, for example, 


  180  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch making coffee or preparing a meal will be helpful. Similar scenarios, increasing in complexity and length, would be appropriate. 


Cognitively, Debra has difficulty attending to stimuli and maintaining her focus. She is distractible and impulsive in her responses, and this is further complicated by fatigue. Visuospatial skills are compromised due to left visual neglect. 


Finally, Debra also presents with impairment in problem-solving, and this is partially due to tangential thinking. Her episodic procedural and semantic memory systems are within functional limits (WFL) for activities of daily living (ADL). 


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity


n  What information indicates that this patient has RHD? 


n  This patient would most likely be seen in acute rehabilitation and then for outpatient therapy. Knowing that the insurance carrier will give you a limited number of sessions, how would you prioritize this patient’s functional outcomes? 


n  What are the family counseling and education issues in this case, and how would you address them? 


n  How would you include the family/caregivers in this patient’s treatment plan? 


n  Write a SOAP note on this patient. Assume that you are seeing the patient for the first time after the evaluation session. Include three short-term therapeutic objectives in your note. 


Treatment Considerations


Debra is a functional communicator. She can carry on a conversation; however, her flat affect and reduced intonation contours interfere with the social interaction during the communication event. Therefore, Debra appears disinterested and distracted during conversation. Although she is 100% intelligible in known and unknown contexts, Debra’s speech is still characterized by articulatory distortions and a slow rate. Her voice is breathy and, therefore, she can be difficult to hear. Therefore, treatment must focus on the paralinguistic and extralinguistic aspects of her communication disorder, as well as her speech production. 


n  Use contrastive stress drills with visual support to represent rising and/or falling intonation patterns. For example, in the sentence “I want to eat,” Debra must accent the appropriate word to respond to a “wh–” 


question such as, “Who  wants to eat?” or “What  do you want to do?” 


These provide Debra with a graphic representation of the intonation contour to facilitate her accurate production. Model as necessary. 


n  Increase loudness by providing visual feedback in the form of a sound level meter placed within Debra’s view. 


 


6.  right heMisphere disorder  181


n  Increase focus and attention using trail-making tasks and/or mazes. 


These tasks involve connecting letters or numbers in sequence across a page using a pencil. 


n  Improve Debra’s ability to locate the left margin of a newspaper or magazine article by having her find the highlighted left margin, for example, a thick yellow line drawn down the left side of the page. 


Therapeutic goals Using A-FroM 


(Kagan, 2011; adapted for rhd)


Debra’s goals relate to her interests as a teacher and as a parent of a young child. Prior to her CVA, she enjoyed teaching adjunct at the local university and interacting with the students. She also spent time reading on topics in the field of education of interest to her, such as innovative ways to engage the learner. Debra also spent time playing with her child and traveling with her extended family. 


1.  Debra will demonstrate the appropriate affect when greeting people. 


2.  Debra will use an interrogative intonation pattern when asking questions. 


3.  Debra will use her compensatory speech strategies of reduced rate, over-articulation and increased loudness to improve speech intelligibility at the conversational level. 


4.  Debra will attend to facial expressions, gestures, and body language to help process conversational discourse. 


5.  Debra will attend to the left visual field during reading tasks at the sentence level after a verbal cue from the clinician during a reading task. 


Figure 6–3 provides the A-FROM domains (Kagan et al., 2008; adapted for RHD) for Debra that were used to formulate her therapeutic goals. 


  182  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Participation in life situations = 


Interest in reading about teaching and 


playing with her child. 


Communication 


& language 


Personal, 


environment =


Living with 


identity, 


Supportive family   


attitudes 


and colleagues who 


right-


& feelings = 


are invested in her 


hemisphere 


Depressed, 


recove


reco ry. Able to





disorder


unmotivated


unm


, 


attend therapy 3 


impulsive & 


times per week at a 


inattentive. 


university clinic. 


Language & related impairments = 


Verbose, disorganized conversation, poor 


prosody, articulation distortions, 


anosagnosia, and left visual neglect noted. 


Figure 6–3.   A-FroM model for debra. 


references


Kagan, A., Simmons-Mackie, N., Rowland, A., Hui-


jbregts, M., Shumway, E., McEwen, . . . Sharp, S. 


(2008). Counting what counts: A framework for cap-


Blake, M. L., Duffy, J. R., Myers, P. S., & Tompkins, C. A. 


turing real-life outcomes of aphasia intervention . 


(2002). Prevalence and patterns of right hemisphere 


 Aphasiology,  2(3),    258–280. 


cognitive communicative deficits: Retrospective data 


Kaplan, R. F., Verfaillie, M., Meadows, M. E., Caplan, 


from an inpatient rehabilitation unit.  Aphasiology, L. R., Peasin, M. S., & deWitt, L. D. (1991). Chang-16, 537–548. 


ing attentional demands in left hemispatial neglect. 


Bub, D., Audet, T., & Lecours, A. R. (1990). Re-evaluating Archives of Neurology,  48, 1263–1266. 


the effect of unilateral brain damage on simple reac-


Myers, P. S. (1998).  Right hemisphere damage: Disor-


tion time to auditory stimulation.  Cortex,  26, 227–237. 


 ders of communication and cognition.  San Diego, 


Grice, H. (1975). Logic and conversation. In P. Cole & CA: Singular Publishing. 


J. Morgan, (Eds.).  Syntax and Semantics,  3, 41–58. 


Myers, P. S. & Blake, M. L. (2008). Communication dis-Kagan, A., (2011). A-FROM in action at the Aphasia 


orders associated with right-hemisphere damage. In 


institute.  Seminars in Speech and Language,  32(3), R. Chapey (Ed.).  Language intervention strategies 


216–228 . 


 in aphasia and related neurogenic communication 


 


6.  right heMisphere disorder  183


 disorders (5th ed., pp. 963–987). Philadelphia, PA: Tompkins, C. A., & Fassbinder, W. (2004). Right hemi-Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. 


sphere language disorders. In R. D. Kent (Ed.),  The 


Patterson, J. P., & Chapey, R. (2008). Assessment of 


 MIT encyclopedia of communication disorders (pp. 


language disorders in adults. In R. Chapey (Ed.), 


388–392). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. 


 Language intervention strategies in aphasia and 


Weed, E. (2011). What’s left to learn about right hemi-


 related neurogenic communication disorders (5th 


sphere damage and pragmatic impairment?  Aphasi-


ed., pp. 64–160). Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Wil-


 ology,  25, 872–889. 


liams & Wilkins. 


Weed, E., McGregor, W., Feidbaek, Nielsen, J., Roep-


Perkins, M. (2005a). Clinical pragmatics: An emergen-


storff, A., & Frith, U. (2010). Theory of mind in 


tist perspective.  Clinical Linguistics and Phonetics, adults with right hemisphere damage: What’s the 


 19, 363–366. 


story?  Brain and Language,  113, 65–72. 


Perkins, M. (2005b). Pragmatic ability and disability 


as emergent phenomena.  Clinical Linguistics and 


 Phonetics,  19, 367–377. 









 Chapter 7


TrAUMATIC BrAIn InjUry


Introduction


primary mechanisms of injury leading to TBI are 


illustrated in Figure 7–1. The severity of TBI is vari-


able, ranging from mild, with a brief loss of con-


Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is caused by a closed 


sciousness and mental ability, to severe with coma 


head injury or an open (penetrating) head injury 


and/or amnesia. In some cases, long-term disability 


that disrupts normal functioning of the brain. The 


results, and the person is not able to return to his or 


Figure 7–1.  Leading causes of traumatic brain injury in the united states (2013). used with permission from BrainLine.org. https://www.brainline 


.org/slideshow/infographic-leading-causes-traumatic-brain-injury 185


  186  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch her premorbid lifestyle. The most common causes of 


n Discourse


brain injury are motor vehicle accidents, recreational 


n  Abstract language including meta-linguistic 


accidents that typically occur during sports, and 


tasks


through acts of violence. The risk of TBI is greater 


n  Complex semantic and syntactic 


for males between the ages of 15 and 19 and for 


manipulations


children of either gender between 0 to 4 years of 


n  Theory of mind


age (Webb & Adler, 2008). Neimeier (2010) reports 


n  Pragmatic language such as turn-taking, 


that the incidence of TBI is higher in people under 


and topic-maintenance


5 years of age and above 85 years of age. According 


n  Behavioral self-regulation


to Brainline.org, there are an estimated 2.8 million 


people treated for a traumatic brain injury annually. 


Ciccia and Threats (2015) identified contextual 


The most common causes are falls, motor vehicle 


factors that had the greatest impact on recovery 


accidents, assaults, and being struck by or striking 


from TBI. However, the contextual factors that were 


an object. 


found to have the biggest impact on the TBI sur-


Of 1.4 million people who experience a TBI 


vivor’s functional outcomes and long-term sequel-


annually in the United States, approximately 50,000 


lae included the individual’s school, family, coping 


die, 235,000 are hospitalized, and 1.1 million are 


style, and socioeconomic level prior to and after 


seen in an emergency room and then released. The 


their injury. The ICF supports these components as 


World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that 


vital to TBI recovery and management. 


70% to 90% are treated for mild TBI (mTBI; Polito, 


There is an urgent need to treat members of 


Thompson, & DeFina, 2010). Vos et al. (2012) report 


U.S. troops diagnosed with TBI. The increase in 


that 10% of mTBIs produce intracranial complica-


incidence of TBI in the United States is primarily 


tions, and only 1% requires neurosurgical inter-


due to brain injuries sustained in the war zones, for 


vention. Intracranial abnormalities may include 


example, due to improvised explosive device (IED) 


life-threatening hematomas. The recommended time 


explosions, gunshot wounds, and other blast related 


for observation is minimally 12 to 24 hours. Medical 


injuries. Recent data in the Rand Report indicate that 


personnel also attempt to determine if any one of six 


320,000 of the 1.64 million U.S. troops engaged in 


clinical signs are present. These include headache, 


“Operation Enduring Freedom” and “Operation Iraqi 


vomiting, short-term memory loss, physical signs of 


Freedom” sustained a mild to moderate brain injury. 


trauma above the clavicles, seizure, and intoxication. 


The Department of Defense (DoD) reports that 70% 


Any one of these findings is often associated with 


of TBIs are caused by the blast wave transmitted 


an abnormal CT scan. 


from the source (Neimeier, 2010). 


Children who sustain a TBI prior to seven years 


For soldiers returning from war, there can be 


of age and those who sustain a TBI during their early 


symptoms that are missed due to their subclinical 


teen years appear to have the most difficulty achiev-


nature, for example, headaches, memory problems, 


ing positive outcomes compared to those who sustain 


and irritability, and consequently, the individual may 


an injury at other ages (Hanten et al., 2008). However, 


not seek help for these symptoms. Posttraumatic 


approximately 35% to 50% of deficits sustained in 


stress disorder (PTSD) may also be a consequence of 


childhood and adolescence across cognitive, sensory, 


TBI in this population. In 2011, the Veterans Admin-


motor, social-emotional, and psychosocial domains 


istration treated over 100,000 veterans from the Iraq 


persist (Brehaut, Miller, Raina, & McGrail, 2003). 


and Afghanistan wars for PTSD. Common symptoms 


According to Ylvisaker and Feeney (2007) cognitive-


of PTSD include nightmares, flashbacks, emotional 


communications disorders have long-lasting impact 


numbness, difficulty sleeping, depression, and other 


and often include the following problems:


physical and mental health problems. Rage surfaces 


in soldiers who avoid dealing with emotions (Guy, 


n  Verbal learning and memory


2012). The speech-language pathologist (SLP) will 


n  Word finding


need to be aware of the ramifications of PTSD dur-


 


7.  trAuMAtic BrAin inJurY  187


ing evaluation and treatment, being especially care-


and meninges and enters the brain. OHIs usually 


ful to be sensitive about the patient’s history. PTSD 


results in a focal lesion around the sight of impact 


can affect a patient’s performance on a cognitive-


and are typically caused by a projectile, such as a 


linguistic assessment, and the clinician must be 


bullet, hitting the head. A closed head injury (CHI) 


observant and attentive during the session to insure 


is caused by a blunt, but nonpenetrating, blow to the 


accuracy of performance, that is, that the patient’s 


head or by the brain being shaken within the skull 


performance is due to their current skill level versus 


due to a rapid acceleration and deceleration of the 


their PTSD. Appropriate referrals to other healthcare 


head (Ylvisaker, Szekeres, & Feeney, 2008). CHIs are 


professionals must be considered as well. 


frequently caused by motor-vehicle accidents, blows 


to the head, and falls. 


The term  coup injury  refers to the injury at the Characteristics


point of contact. For example, if one sustains a blow 


to the left side of the head, and only the left hemi-


sphere is affected, then the patient has experienced 


Individuals with TBI often present with a wide range 


a coup injury. If, however, the patient sustains dam-


of symptoms and disabilities. There is a physiologic 


age in the right hemisphere after a blow to the left 


disruption of brain functioning immediately follow-


side of the head, then that is termed a  contrecoup 


ing a TBI. Most patients will experience an altered 


 injury. Thus, these two lesion sites arise from the state of consciousness at the time of the injury. Some 


original blow to the brain (coup injury), and the 


patients will lapse into a coma immediately, whereas 


other contusion is a result of the brain rebounding 


others may gradually evolve into that state of con-


off the skull at the site opposite of impact (contre-


sciousness. Most patients experience loss of memory 


coup injury). Shearing forces occur if there is a rapid 


for the events directly before the injury (retrograde 


and forceful motion of the head, which is often the 


amnesia) or after it (anterograde amnesia). Depend-


case in automobile accidents. For example, in an 


ing on the level of severity of the brain injury, the 


auto accident, the patient’s brain still may be moving 


patient may also sustain focal or diffuse neurologic 


in an anterior-posterior direction after the car has 


deficits and/or cognitive-linguistic impairment. Agi-


stopped. Such movement can cause  diffuse axonal 


tation is very common in the head injured patient. 


 injury  due to tearing of axons and the myelin sheath It can begin at the scene of the accident as combat-covering them. Table 7–1 presents the causes and 


iveness and behavioral abnormalities can continue 


characteristics of TBI. 


throughout the stages of recovery. 


There is also a loss of consciousness accom-


panied by swelling (edema) of the brain and vas-


cular damage deep within the brain. If pressure in 


Types of Brain Injury


the skull is not stopped through surgery, cooling, 


medication, or by other medical intervention, the 


Although any change in brain neurophysiology and/


brain will swell to the point that it is pushed down 


or structure can be considered traumatic, the term 


through the opening at the skull’s base (the fora-


 TBI  is much more specific in reference. TBI refers men magnum). This is referred to as  brain hernia-to brain damage caused by an external force acting 


 tion. Consequently, the brainstem nuclei controlling on the head (Ylvisaker, Szekeres, & Feeney, 2008). 


breathing and heart functions will be compressed, 


Stroke, hypoxia, tumors, infections, and toxic/meta-


and the person will die. Another consequence of 


bolic processes are therefore not considered TBI in 


brain herniation that can be observed in people 


this context, despite the changes in brain function-


with a TBI is abnormal posturing. There are two 


ing that ensue. Traditionally, TBIs are classified as 


types of abnormal posturing associated with brain 


open or closed head injuries. An open head injury 


herniation in people with aTBI:  decorticate postur-


(OHI), also referred to as penetrating head injury, 


 ing, due to unilateral or bilateral corticospinal tract occurs when a foreign object penetrates the skull 


damage; or  decerebrate posturing,  which indicates 


  188  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Table 7–1.   causes and characteristics of tBi


Common Causes of TBI


Characteristics


open head injury (ohI)


penetration of the skull (missile wound) with a direct injury to example:  gunshot wound 


the brain. there is large focal damage, and effects can be life to the head


threatening. About 30% to 40% of patients experience seizures. 


Closed head injury (ChI)


there is no penetration of the skull. trauma is caused by example:  assault with a 


external force to the head or forceful shaking of the head. 


blunt object; motor vehicle 


there is more diffuse damage due to possible coup and 


accidents (MvA); falls


contrecoup injures and axonal shearing from the back and 


forth movement of the brain inside the skull. Because of a sudden deceleration after the initial impact, the brain continues to move inside the skull as it moves at a different rate than the skull because it is soft. Brain swelling and contusions also tend to occur due to the rapid acceleration and deceleration of the brain inside the skull. 


that there is swelling of the upper brainstem. The 


prognostic Considerations 


severity and duration of these abnormal postures 


in head Injury


contribute to the patient’s long-term prognosis, that 


is, the longer the duration and the more severe the 


The clinician working with a patient who has TBI 


posturing, then the poorer the long-term prognosis 


status post (s/p) head injury will need to consider 


(Springhouse, 2007). Figure 7–2 illustrates the two 


five general variables in relation to functional out-


types of abnormal posturing. 


come: premorbid intelligence, age at the time of 


injury, duration of coma, posttraumatic amnesia, 


and medical complications during the hospital stay. 


symptoms related to 


There are other variables that also can impact func-


Localization of the TBI


tional outcome, such as gender and initial Glasgow 


Coma Scale (GCS) score (Brown et al., 2005). If the 


TBI often results in damage to cortical and sub-


clinician is attentive to all these factors, a very rea-


cortical regions depending on the mechanism of 


sonable prognosis for the patient can be formulated. 


injury. However, certain areas are more affected due 


Each of these will be discussed separately. 


to direct insult, and deficits are associated with the 


areas injured. Those who have sustained a right 


hemispheric injury may experience sensory impair-


premorbid Intelligence


ment on the left side of the body, left inattention, 


poor awareness of limitations, impaired math skills, 


Kesler, Adams, Blasey, and Bigler (2003) tested the 


and impaired memory for nonverbal informa-


concept of cognitive reserve in 24 patients with brain 


tion. Left hemispheric injury affects language and 


injury. Cognitive reserve has been postulated as the 


right-sided motor skills, with impaired memory for 


factor to explain the individual difference in func-


nonverbal information. For patients with bilateral 


tional outcomes. Using MRI imaging, the authors 


frontal involvement, executive functions are gener-


measured total intracranial volume and ventricle-


ally impaired, for example, disinhibition, social inap-


to-brain ratio. They also looked at educational level 


propriateness, difficulty controlling emotions, poor 


and premorbid standardized testing and compared 


at initiating tasks, and poor self-regulation. Diffuse 


it with the subject’s cognitive outcome postinjury. 


axonal injury (DAI) leads to poorer performance 


Their results found that larger premorbid brain 


when tasks become more complex. 


volume and higher education level may decrease 


 


7.  trAuMAtic BrAin inJurY  189


A. Extension posturing (decerebrate rigidity) 


B. Abnormal flexion (decorticate rigidity)


Figure 7–2.  decerebrate and decorticate postures. A.  extension posturing (decerebrate rigidity). B. Abnormal flexion (decorticate rigidity). 


vulnerability to cognitive deficits following TBI, con-


direct and linear relationship between recovery and 


sistent with the notion of a cognitive reserve. 


the duration of the coma. Depth of coma is based on 


the GCS score. Patients whose coma lasts less than 


2 weeks have better prognosis for full recovery than 


Age at the Time of Injury


those whose coma lasts longer than 2 weeks (Brain 


Trauma Foundation, 2000b). When the patient is 


Age at the time of injury appears to be a strong indi-


first encountered by medical professionals, and the 


cator of morbidity and functional outcome (Wetzel 


GCS is administered within 24 hours of the injury, 


& Squire, 1982). If the patient is 40 years of age or those with a score less than 8 are at a higher risk 


under, a good outcome is predicted in most cases. 


than those with a score greater than 8. If the GCS is 


However, if the patient is over 50, the outcome is 


administered 24 hours after the injury, a score of 5 


poorer — and poorer still if the patient is over 60 


or less indicates a poor outcome, and greater than 


years of age (Brain Trauma Foundation, 2000a). 


5 is predictive of a good outcome (Brain Trauma 


Foundation, 2000b). 


duration of Coma


posttraumatic Amnesia


There are two factors to consider in relation to 


coma: duration of coma and depth of coma. Dura-


Another prognosticator for recovery after head 


tion is measured in weeks, and there appears to be a 


injury is the duration of amnesia. Typically, people 


  190  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch who sustain head injury have no memory of the 


remember that a patient may improve despite a low 


actual event. However, as they recover, they may 


GCS score; however, it is generally held that a score 


be able to go back in time and begin to remember 


between 8 and 15 indicates a more favorable prog-


events closer and closer to the actual incident. If the 


nosis. Table 7–3 shows the rating scale of the GCS. 


posttraumatic amnesia is less than 2 weeks prior to 


Dawodu (2007) further refines the criteria for 


patient admission to the hospital, then the prognosis 


severity of brain injury as follows:


for a fuller recovery is better. This is dependent on 


the severity of the injury, the type of injury, and the 


A diagnosis of mild brain injury is made when:


communication skills of the patient. The clinician 


n  The GCS score is greater than 12


can monitor this amnesia, which will help in prog-


n  There are no abnormalities noted on the 


nostication and even therapy planning. Table 7–2 


CT scan


provides expectations for full recovery given the 


n  There are no operative lesions


amount of time with posttraumatic amnesia. 


n  The length of stay in the hospital is less 


than 48 hours


Medical Complications


A diagnosis of moderate brain injury is made when:


n  The GCS score is from 9 to 12


To obtain a rapid clinical picture of the patient, the 


n  There are abnormal CT scan findings


first assessment tool used by medical profession-


n  There exists an operative intracranial 


als on their first encounter with the head injured 


lesion


patient is the GCS (Jennett & Bond, 1975). This typi-


n  The length of stay in the hospital is at 


cally occurs in the field, that is, at the scene of the 


least 48 hours


accident or injury, as the patient is being stabilized 


for transport. However, the GCS also can be admin-


A diagnosis of severe brain injury is made when:


istered by EMTs in the helicopter transporting the 


n  The GCS score is below 9 within 48 hours 


patient to the hospital, or in the emergency depart-


of the injury


ment upon arrival to the hospital. The patient is 


rated according to his eye-opening response, ver-


Medical complications after TBI are common 


bal response, and motor response. These scores are 


and myriad. Of course, the level of severity of the 


then tallied, and a score is obtained. The highest 


initial head injury plays a role in the extent and 


score obtainable on the GCS is 15. The lowest score 


nature of these problems, that is, the more severe, 


obtainable is 3. Teasdale and Jennett (1974) describe 


the more likely those complications will arise post 


a GCS score of 3 to 8 as severe TBI, 9 to 12 as mod-


injury. We briefly summarize below the medical 


erate TBI, and 13 to 15 as mTBI. It is important to 


complications that the speech-language pathologist 


will most likely encounter in the acute care and 


rehab phases of the patient’s hospitalization: post-


Table 7–2.   relationship Between duration of 


traumatic seizures, hydrocephalus, and spasticity. 


posttraumatic Amnesia and recovery time


Time of posttraumatic  Time expected for 


posttraumatic seizures


Amnesia experienced


Full recovery


Less than 5 minutes


1 month


Posttraumatic seizures (PTS) are a common compli-


cation of TBI and most commonly occur after mod-


5 to 60 minutes


3 months


erate and severe head injury. Seizures are classified 


1 to 24 hours


1 year


based on how soon after the initial injury they occur: 


1 to 7 days


1 to 2 years


immediate seizures occur within 24  hours of the 


injury, early seizures occur in 2 to 7 days postinjury, 


8 to 28 days


residual deficits remain


and late seizures occur any time after day 7 post-


 


7.  trAuMAtic BrAin inJurY  191


Table 7–3.   the glasgow coma scale


eye opening 


spontaneous — open with blinking at baseline


4 points


response


opens to verbal command, speech, or shout


3 points


opens to pain, not applied to face


2 points


none


1 point


verbal response


oriented


5 points


confused conversation, but able to answer 


4 points


questions


inappropriate responses, words discernible


3points


incomprehensible speech


2 points


none


1 point


Motor response


obeys commands for movement


6 points


purposeful movement to painful stimulus


5 points


Withdraws from pain


4 points


Abnormal (spastic) flexion, decorticate posture


3 points


extensor (rigid) response, decerebrate posture


2 points


none


1 point


injury (Pangilinan, 2008). Late onset posttraumatic 


communicating hydrocephalus (Parcell, Ponsford, 


seizures occur in 5% to 19% of those with brain 


Rajaratnam, & Redman, 2006). 


injury, and approximately one-third to one-half of 


all brain-injured patients develop them (Bushnik, 


spasticity


Englander, & Duong, 2004). 


Elovic and Zafonte (2001) found that in one inpa-


hydrocephalus


tient rehabilitation unit, 25% of the TBI patients 


demonstrated spasticity. Spasticity is a sign of upper 


motor neuron damage, whereas rigidity is a sign of 


The four ventricles of the brain compose the ven-


basal ganglia involvement. The important fact that 


tricular system, whose function is to keep the brain 


the speech-language clinician must keep in mind is 


and spinal cord bathed in cerebral spinal fluid (CSF). 


that some medications used to reduce spasticity and 


The CSF circulates continuously and is reabsorbed 


rigidity may cause cognitive deficits, especially the 


back into the bloodstream. Hydrocephalus occurs 


use of baclofen, tizanidine, clonidine, and benzodi-


when the CSF cannot exit the ventricles, builds up 


azepines (Pangilinan, 2008). 


there, and causes significant pressure on the adja-


cent cortical areas. In TBI, the two most common 


types of hydrocephalus are  communicating   and 


Cognitive-Linguistic 


 non-communicating. If there is an obstruction in 


Impairment due to TBI


the subarachnoid space, preventing the free flow of 


CSF, communicating hydrocephalus results, and this 


is the most common type found in TBI. An obstruc-


There are three major deficit areas that result from 


tion in the ventricular system that prevents the CSF 


TBI. These are neurologic/physical impairments, 


from exiting the fourth ventricle results in non-


cognitive/intellectual impairments, and emotional/ 


  192  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch behavioral impairments. Neurologically, there may 


this population. The person may display person-


be coordination problems, epilepsy, paresis (unilat-


ality changes, difficulty self-monitoring, a lack of 


eral or bilateral), sensory, and/or perceptual impair-


motivation, impulsivity, aggression, disinhibition, 


ments, to name a few. Cognitive impairment also 


anxiety, and/or depression, with limited awareness. 


may arise and includes deficits of memory, intellec-


Table 7–4 summarizes the deficit areas and offers 


tual quotient, processing speed, attention, executive 


some treatment considerations. 


functioning, and/or communication problems. Lan-


In children, outcomes are impacted by the 


guage deficits occur in one-third of severe TBI survi-


severity of the TBI, and the site and size of the 


vors, but rarely evident in cases of mTBI. Emotional 


lesion and age. Children with mTBI generally make 


and behavioral complications are very common in 


the most improvements within 6 months postinjury, 


Table 7–4.   primary deficits in tBi and Areas for treatment primary Type of deficits


Treatment Considerations


cognitive-communication


Word finding is a major deficit in severe tBi and can be seen in mild cases, although to a lesser degree of impairment. there is difficulty organizing and sequencing information. speech is often tangential, and the patient is unable to differentiate relevant from irrelevant information when formulating a discourse. expressing and comprehending humor can be impaired. 


understanding of abstract language and expression is often limited. 


synthesizing written information can also be impaired. 


pragmatic language is often impaired, for example, eye contact, affect, use of gestures, and understanding of body language and facial expressions are deficient. pragmatic deficits also include topic selection and maintenance, expression of complex ideas, and making inappropriate comments. narrative discourse is incohesive. Automatic and overlearned language is often unaffected. 


Academic


there is difficulty organizing, integrating, and generalizing information to another context. self-awareness of problems is limited, and there is poor planning ability. self-monitoring of errors and behaviors are weak. 


An individual is often ready for school when they can attend to a task for 15 


to 20 minutes, and they can tolerate 20 to 30 minutes of stimulation. they should also be able to function in a group of two or more and engage in meaningful communication with the ability to follow basic directions. there should be an interest in learning. 


executive Functioning


three areas must be considered: executing cognitive plans, managing time, and self-regulating. A fully functioning individual needs to possess the ability to organize and sequence plans and initiate activities to work toward goals. 


they also should work toward estimating time and creating schedules to carry out activities and change plans if needed. in order to self-regulate, the individual must judge their own behavior to complete tasks, control impulses, work without perseveration, and act independently. 


Memory


during the sensory store stage, stimuli enter the system (visual, auditory, tactile, emotional, etc.) and disappear. short-term working memory is limited and tends to last 20 seconds or less. it is assisted by rehearsal, visuospatial sketchpad, and decision-making. Long-term memory lasts from minutes to years. consolidation must occur for this to work for later recall. three memory systems, semantic knowledge, episodic or event-based, and procedural are important to communication. 


 


7.  trAuMAtic BrAin inJurY  193


whereas those with severe TBI and more diffuse 


and a brief overview of their daily schedule. It is 


damage tend to make gradual improvements over 


important to monitor changes in behavior and cog-


an 18-month postinjury time frame. Children with 


nitive-linguistic skills during this stage and report 


brain injury often recover more readily because the 


on the patient’s progress in the chart. 


language areas have greater brain plasticity. As indi-


viduals age, the areas become more specialized and 


less resilient (Szaflarski, 2006). 


postconcussive syndrome


establishing goals for the 


 Postconcussive syndrome (PCS) has been identi-


Therapeutic Course


fied as a sequela to mild brain injury in some cases 


(Legome & Wu, 2006). Mild injury is characterized 


During the acute phase of the hospitalization, a pri-


by a brief loss of consciousness and/or posttrau-


mary goal is to assess the severity of the patient’s 


matic amnesia and the patient may also demonstrate 


injury. A professional team composed of a speech-


disorientation. Interestingly, more men sustain mild 


language pathologist, occupational and physical 


brain injury, but the incidence of PCS is higher in 


therapists, social worker, and physicians are initially 


women. Fifty percent of mild brain injury patients 


necessary to evaluate and chart the course of func-


are between the ages of 15 and 34. The PCS patient 


tional treatment. The typical evaluation approach 


may also present with a GCS of 13 to 15 (Legome 


for these patients at this stage is to administer a 


& Wu, 2006). Legome and Wu (2006) also report 


formal assessment, if they can participate, in order 


that between 29% to 90% of patients will experience 


to delineate deficit areas. Although this may be a 


PCS symptoms after mild brain injury, and these 


controversial practice, in our clinical experience it 


patients tend not to report to the emergency depart-


is important to establish a baseline to measure the 


ment (ED) immediately after the injury. Approxi-


patient’s cognitive-linguistic recovery over time. Fur-


mately 15% of PCS patients will continue to report 


thermore, because patients do not remain in the 


problems 12 months after the injury, which may be 


acute care setting as long as they once did in the 


refractory to treatment, leaving the patient with a 


past, supplying information to the clinicians and 


lifelong disability (Legome & Wu, 2006). 


rehab team at the next level of care is important 


Ponsford et al. (2012) set out to determine the 


for this patient’s rehabilitation program. Assessment 


influence of preinjury factors, injury-related factors, 


must also include reporting on which level of the 


and postinjury factors on outcomes of mTBI. Find-


Rancho Los Amigos Level of Cognitive Function-


ings indicated that anxiety in response to post injury 


ing Scale (RLA) matches as closely as possible the 


symptoms was an important factor in the acute 


patient’s clinical presentation. This also facilitates 


phase. Female individuals’ anxiety levels 1-week 


a common ground of communication between the 


postinjury combined with any preinjury psychiatric 


members of the patient’s team. 


problems were most often associated with PCS fol-


The evaluator must also consider the duration 


lowing mTBI. When PCS was diagnosed, it was most 


of the patient’s coma and be certain to review the 


often related to PTSD symptoms, life stressors, anxi-


physician and nursing notes for the latest GCS assess-


ety, pain, and memory and concentration difficulties. 


ment. Hearing, balance, vision, motor skills, sensory 


For the PCS population, treatment recommen-


status, cognitive skills, and other social effects of 


dations include cognitive rehabilitation with an 


the TBI must be noted. Neimeier (2010) suggests 


emphasis on attentional and communication skills. 


using a “What Am I Forgetting” Questionnaire as 


Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), and desensi-


part of the evaluation process. This is a simple five-


tization to reduce hypersensitivity have also been 


question form to evaluate if the patient can recall 


used as have neurosensory retraining for visual-


names of familiar people; identify where they have 


vestibular dysfunction and drug therapy for head-


placed personal objects; what they ate during the 


aches and sleep disturbance. It is also important 


day; temporal and spatial orientation (today’s date); 


that these patients receive compensatory training 


  194  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch for functional skills related to personal and voca-The clinician must present detailed prophy-


tional responsibilities, that is, the clinician should 


lactic counseling and education to the caregivers 


provide strategies to optimize the patient’s success 


regarding PCS. In the case of children, the clini-


with daily living activities and job-related duties, 


cian should provide a copy of the evaluation report 


focusing on organizational skills, time management, 


to the child’s teachers (with parental permission) 


problem solving, and other executive functions that 


so that any special programming can be arranged. 


would positively impact daily life. An important fac-


Follow-up cognitive-linguistic testing should also be 


tor to keep in mind is that all treatment must be 


considered approximately 6 weeks s/p discharge to 


individualized. 


monitor the trends in the recovery process and to rule 


Legome and Wu (2006) state that if headache, 


out the emergence of any new impairments. 


dizziness, fatigue, irritability, impaired memory and 


concentration, insomnia, and lowered tolerance for 


noise and light continue after the injury, a diagnosis 


Mild TBI (mTBI)


of PCS can be made. Legome and Wu (2006) believe 


that PCS can at least be loosely defined as a persis-


tence of these symptoms within several weeks after 


Mild brain injury is characterized by a brief change 


the initial insult. Kalinian (2008) states that PCS is 


in consciousness (less than 20 to 30 minutes) or 


a “cluster of cognitive, behavioral, and emotional 


mental status resulting from an acute injury from 


symptoms that occur after a blow, a fall, or hit to the 


some mechanical energy applied to the head. Hos-


head” (p. 1). The most common symptoms of PCS are:


pitalization is generally less than 72 hours, with a 


GCS greater than 12. Numminen (2011) supports 


n  Persistent low-grade headaches that linger


the use of more sophisticated methods to determine 


n  Attentional difficulties or problems 


mTBI. Symptom-based criteria are currently used as 


concentrating


guidelines for determining the incidence of mTBI. 


n  Difficulty remembering things


Often loss of consciousness (LOC) and posttraumatic 


n  Problems with planning and organization


amnesia (PTA) are required for diagnosing mTBI. 


n  A new and noticeable slowness in thinking


When these criteria are not required, the incidence 


n  Disorientation resulting in getting lost 


rate tends to drop by one-third. Estimated incidence 


more easily


also reflects patients who receive treatment at a hos-


n  Reduced energy level


pital. Often, patients who visit outpatient clinics are 


n  Changes in the senses of smell and/or taste


not counted. In the United States, approximately 


n Tinnitus


25% of individuals do not seek medical treatment 


n  Changes in behavior and personality such 


following an mTBI. Such information is either self-


as anxiety, depression, irritability, sleep 


reported or provided by another who identified a 


abnormalities, changes in appetite, and 


loss of consciousness in someone they knew. On the 


changes in libido. 


other hand, according to the World Health Organi-


zation (WHO), confusion and disorientation are the 


Diagnostic testing of patients with PCS may identify 


only symptoms determined as relevant in the diag-


weaknesses in the following areas:


nosis of mTBI without other transient neurological 


abnormalities (Numminen, 2011). 


n Vocabulary


Symptoms of mTBI generally include headaches, 


n  Short-term and immediate memory


dizziness, poor concentration, mental slowness, 


n Attention


difficulty engaging in divided attention, memory 


n  Cognitive flexibility


difficulties, visual disturbance, fatigue, irritability, 


n  Information processing


depression, anxiety, and alcohol intolerance (Carroll 


n  Object recall


et al., 2004). Poorer cognitive performance regard-


n Drawing


ing reaction time, processing speed, and memory 


n Mathematics


are more often associated with intracranial abnor-


 


7.  trAuMAtic BrAin inJurY  195


malities. The presence of other health problems, life 


Slower information processing and increased 


stressors, and psychiatric illness prior to an mTBI 


frontal lobe activation have been found 1-month 


tends to predict poorer outcomes 3 months after the 


post mTBI on tasks involving working memory. 


injury. Although the prevalence of mTBI is 100 to 


Researchers speculate that additional frontal lobe 


300 out of 100,000 annually (Hirtz et al., 2007), most 


resources for processing are activated in order to 


cases make a complete recovery within 3 months 


successfully complete such tasks after mTBI. Young 


of the injury. Approximately 15% to 25% experi-


adults with mTBI, often due to sports injuries, 


ence ongoing symptoms (Carroll et al., 2004). Cop-


experienced slowing when attempting higher-order 


ing strategies for reducing anxiety have been found 


cognitive tasks compared with control peers. The 


helpful in minimizing the effects of mTBI over time. 


slower information processing is associated with 


The clinician must be alert to those patients 


microstructural axonal damage, detected using dif-


who experience very mild cognitive-linguistic  fusion tensor imaging (Niogi et al., 2008). New treat-impairment upon initial testing. Presently, CT scans, 


ments for mTBI include individualized protocols 


MRIs, neuropsychological testing, and rating scales 


established from the International Brain Research 


have not been sensitive enough to accurately assess 


Foundation (IBRF) to reduce dysfunction by chang-


mTBI. With mTBI, there is excessive hyper-excit-


ing amplitude, frequency, and coherence of the 


ability and cortical stimulation that leads to neuro-


brain’s electrical activity. Transcranial magnetic 


degeneration and cell death (Hovda, 2007). Hovda 


stimulation (TMI) and transcranial direct current 


stated that surviving cells are in a state of dysfunc-


stimulation (tDCS) attempt to alleviate persistent 


tion and suggested multimodal brain mapping to 


symptoms of mTBI by changing neuronal firing with 


appropriately assess brain integrity. Hovda (2007) 


low-amplitude direct currents. 


further recommended identification of neuromark-


ers for electrical, magnetic, metabolic, and chemical 


functions. Spectroscopy with MRI, fMRI, and EEG 


rating scales for 


testing can provide information about the individ-


Functional outcomes


ual’s ability to focus attention, process information, 


and execute specific tasks — all are important to the 


therapeutic process. Such testing is also helpful in 


The GCS is designed to provide the first responders 


differentiating PTSD from mTBI. 


and the medical team with a clinical picture of the 


According to Ozen and Fernandes (2012), indi-


patient immediately after the injury and for the early 


viduals with mTBI often experience working memory 


stage of the hospitalization. It does not address the 


impairment and attention/concentration difficulties 


cognitive, linguistic, behavioral, and functional out-


that go undetected on standard neuropsychologi-


comes but the following two scales do: the RLA (for 


cal tests. In their study of 26 undergraduate college 


Rancho Los Amigos Level of Cognitive Functioning 


students who suffered a mTBI, at least 6 months 


Scale; Northeast Center for Special Care, 2007) and 


prior to their investigation, they were found to have 


the Disability Rating Scale (DRS; Rappaport, Hall, 


higher state anxiety levels and slowed information 


Hopkins, Belleza, & Cope, 1982). We review the 


processing compared with 31 students in the control 


scales and their functions below. 


group. Although task accuracy rates were similar 


between the groups, results suggested that individu-


als with mTBI may delay their responses on cogni-


rancho Los Amigos (rLA)


tively demanding tasks to improve accuracy. Patients 


with posttraumatic amnesia lasting less than 7 days 


Currently, there are 10 levels of function that are 


who received regular outpatient follow-up visits had 


defined by the patient’s behavior, including func-


significantly less social disability and fewer postcon-


tional communication skills. The clinician uses the 


cussion symptoms 6 months after the injury, than 


RLA during the initial assessment and for follow-up 


those who did not receive the services (Wade, King, 


monitoring of the patient. In both the acute-care phase 


Wenden, Crawford, & Caldwell, 1998). 


of the patient’s recovery and in the rehabilitative 


  196  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch phase, the RLA is useful for goal planning and prog-mize the importance of treatment. Such denial also 


nostication. Each level of the scale has more detailed 


sets up obstacles to optimal recovery that may not 


behavioral and communicative characteristics asso-


be overcome. Therefore, the clinician must reflect 


ciated with it, but in the representation of the scale 


on the severity of the patient’s impairments when 


below, we have included only the general clinical 


planning treatment and remain pragmatic, realistic, 


presentation. We refer the reader to http:// www 


and functionally oriented. 


.rancho.org/, which is the website of Ranchos Los 


There are some general features common to 


Amigos National Rehabilitation Center for the fuller 


most patients with TBI, and it is important to dis-


version of this scale. We recommend that the clini-


cuss and/or address these issues directly or through 


cian continually monitor the patient’s progress by 


outside consultations. These include:


using the scale at each bedside or office visit, start-


ing with the initial evaluation session in the hospital. 


n  difficulty sleeping


Table 7–5 describes the RLA. 


n  feeling stressed


n  emotional lability


n forgetfulness


disability rating scale (drs)


n anger


n depression


The DRS (Rappaport et al., 1982) provides a very 


n self-consciousness


functional picture of the brain-injured patient to 


those around him or her (Table 7–6). Unlike the 


The goal is to work toward increasing the 


RLA, the DRS covers the full range of human activ-


patient’s ability to be aware of an impairment or 


ity that must be considered if full recovery is to be 


behavioral change; to identify it when it occurs; and 


addressed. This scale can be used at the early stages 


then learn to self-monitor any disruptive behaviors 


of hospitalization through the community reentry 


before they can interfere with social interaction, 


phase of recovery. Furthermore, the DRS is a per-


activities of daily living (ADLs), or communication. 


fect platform upon which to design interdisciplinary 


Knowledge is power, and time is essential (Perri, 


goals designed to enhance the patient’s functional 


2012). Depending on the level of severity, a patient’s 


outcomes. 


rehabilitation can range from weeks to years. For 


mild cases, treatment can focus on  optimization 


and perhaps even  rebuilding  the areas of cognitive-general Treatment Issues


linguistic weakness. Executive functions, language 


functions, and behavior can all be addressed directly 


and effectively with a patient who can understand 


Early treatment is best, and communicative recov-


the goals and procedures of treatment. For example, 


ery is optimized with comprehensive cognitive and 


reducing or eliminating tangential output in dis-


neurobehavioral therapy (Pegg, Auerbach, & Seel, 


course is more realistic in these patients because 


2005; Ylvisaker et al., 2007) One must consider, 


they can comprehend the tasks, materials, and the 


however, the level of severity when developing a 


long-term goal. Choosing to address the patient’s 


treatment plan for a person with TBI. The patient’s 


ability to manage their own finances by working 


awareness of the event and understanding of the 


on their bills with them, makes more sense with a 


deficits is a critical element in their rehabilitation 


patient who can read, scan, and do simple arithmetic. 


and must always be included in the treatment plan. 


Every patient has areas of strengths and weaknesses, 


A psychosocial goal is for the individual to become 


and it the responsibility of the clinician to identify 


more aware that they have changed due to their 


them and build a treatment plan around them. 


injury. Unfortunately, some patients are severely 


In moderately impaired and severely impaired 


disoriented and are unable to comprehend the fact 


patients, rehabilitation can be prolonged, and rightly 


that their reality has changed. The patient may never 


so. Once the patient has moved to the rehabilita-


accept that they need services and may try to mini-


tion level of care, the speech-language pathologist 


Table 7–5.   the rLA Levels of cognitive Function scale with Behavioral characteristics Levels of Cognitive 


Functioning


Clinical presentation


Level i


 No responses to pain, touch, sound, or sight. 


total assistance required. 


Level ii


 Generalized response to any type of stimuli regardless of type or location. 


total assistance required. 


Level iii


 Localized response; blink to strong light; respond to physical discomfort; inconsistent response to commands. 


total assistance required. 


Level iv


 Confused and agitated; alert, active with aggressive and odd behaviors; attention span short; nonpurposeful motor movements; verbalizations inappropriate. 


Maximal assistance. 


Level v


 Confused, inappropriate, nonagitated. gross attention to the environment; distractible; constant redirection required; can become overstimulated; inappropriate social interactions. 


Maximal assistance. 


Level vi


 Confused and appropriate; inconsistently oriented; recent memory and attention are impaired; can follow simple directions; goal-directed with assistance; begin to recall the past; emerging awareness of self. 


Moderate assistance required. 


Level vii


 Automatic and appropriate; performs daily routines robotically; skills deteriorate in unfamiliar environments; planning is unrealistic; awareness is superficial, but the person cannot attach meaning to it. 


Minimal assistance for AdLs is required. 


Level viii


 Purposeful and Appropriate; unclear assessment of their abilities; self-centered; irritable; low tolerance for frustration; able to acknowledge others’ 


feelings with assistance; can execute familiar tasks with minimal assistance. 


stand-by assistance is required. 


Level iX


 Purposeful and Appropriate; able to complete familiar tasks independently and shift between tasks independently; they can self-monitor and can anticipate problems with assistance. these patients often use an assistive memory device to recall a schedule. 


stand-by assistance on request is required. 


Level X


 Purposeful and Appropriate; can multitask; independently initiate and carry out unfamiliar routines; anticipate impact of their impairments; can think about consequences of decisions; social interactions are consistently appropriate. 


Modified independent level of assistance is required. 


 Source:  hagen, c. (1998).  Revised levels of cognitive functioning, rehabilitation of the head injured adult: Comprehensive physical management (3rd ed.). downey, cA: professional staff Association of rancho Los Amigos national rehabilitation center, http://www.rainbowrehab.com/education_&_publications/ranchos-los-amigos.php. used with permission. 





197


Table 7–6.   the disability rating scale disability rating scale (drs)


Category


Item


Instructions


score


Arousability, 


eye opening


0 =  spontaneous 


Awareness, and 


1 =  to speech 


responsivity


2 =  to pain 


3 =  none


communication 


0 =  oriented 


Ability


1 =  confused 


2 =  inappropriate 


3 =  incomprehensible 


4 =  none


Motor response


0 =  obeying 


1 =  localizing 


2 =  withdrawing 


3 =  flexing 


4 =  extending 


5 =  none


cognitive Ability for  Feeding


0 =  complete 


self-care Activities


1 =  partial 


2 =  minimal 


3 =  none


toileting


0 =  complete 


1 =  partial 


2 =  minimal 


3 =  none


grooming


0 =  complete 


1 =  partial 


2 =  minimal 


3 =  none


dependence on 


Level of 


0 =  completely independent 


others


Functioning


1 =  independent in special environment 


2 =  mildly dependent 


3 =  moderately dependent 


4 =  markedly dependent 


5 =  totally dependent


psychosocial 


employability


0 =  not restricted 


Adaptability


1 =  selected jobs 


2 =  sheltered workshop (noncompetitive) 


3 =  not employable


total drs score


disability categories:  0 (total drs score) = none (Level of disability); 1 = Mild; 2–3 = partial; 4–6 = Moderate; 7–11 = Moderately severe; 12–16 = severe; 17–21 = extremely severe; 22–24 = vegetative state; 25–29 = 


extreme vegetative state. 


 Source:  rappaport, M., hall, K. M., hopkins, h. K., Belleza, t., & cope, d. n. (1982). disability rating scale for severe head trauma: coma to community.  Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,   63, 118–123. 


copyright elsevier (1982). reprinted with permission. 


198


 


7.  trAuMAtic BrAin inJurY  199


must utilize all of the information obtained from 


social proprieties will need some training in social 


evaluations and reports during the acute care stay, 


problem solving. A creative method to teach this is 


in order to plan treatment in rehab. Rehabilitation 


known as “COPS: Caution On Pushing Send” also 


stays are more truncated now due to reimbursement 


referred to as “Would you want your grandmother 


issues, so clinicians must work more efficaciously, 


to read this?” It is an easy concept to teach to help 


using solid evidence to guide their treatment meth-


the individual with brain injury, who can commu-


ods. In the more severe cases, treatment will focus 


nicate in writing, to think of what another person 


on developing compensatory strategies to meet the 


may think when reading an e-mail, the patient is 


patient’s ADL needs. These patients may never be 


planning to send. A discussion can then ensue about 


independent; however, as in the milder cases, the 


options and optimal methods to communicate his 


clinician must identify the strengths and weaknesses 


or her ideas. 


and design a plan based on those findings. Gener-


According to Sohlberg et al. (2008), the clini-


ally, memory, attention, visuospatial skills, execu-


cian must incorporate mass practice during therapy 


tive functions, problem-solving, and language must 


for individuals with TBI. Modifying tasks into small 


all be addressed at some level with the idea that 


steps with models before performance is required 


 recovery (defined as “return to normal functioning”) may facilitate errorless learning. Individualized 


is not likely, but  optimization  of strengths and  com-attention work, that is, intense treatment sessions 


 pensation  for weaknesses is much more realistic. 


lasting at least an hour, should take place. Outcome 


These patients benefit from the use of scheduling 


measures taken to record daily and weekly progress 


tools, memory logs, address books, and multimodal-


will help to determine the efficacy of the treatment. 


ity reminders to keep them oriented and connected 


It is also recommended that the clinician incorporate 


socially. Electronic devices, including smartphones 


training to improve the patient’s awareness of errors, 


and iPads are very helpful for all of the above. 


identification of errors, and the ability to self-monitor There are many formal and informal methods 


performance. Furthermore, due to the presence of 


to address the deficit areas noted above. One of 


aberrant behaviors in this clinical population, the 


the latest techniques to address problem solving 


clinician must include goals that facilitate self-control and reasoning is referred to as SOLVE (Neimeier, 


of inappropriate, nonproductive, and/or disruptive 


Kreutzer, & Taylor, 2005). Here, the clinician trains behaviors. Training often requires practice in various 


the patient to use this method in order to facili-


settings if the new skill is to be used appropriately 


tate optimal decision-making. It has the following 


and functionally (Kennedy et al., 2008). 


components:


Regardless of the treatment plan, remember to 


follow these basic steps:


n  Situation analysis:  “What’s the problem?” 


n  Options:  “What are some options in this 


n  Consider the patient’s needs and available 


case?” 


support systems. 


n  Listen:  “Ask others for their opinion/


n  Identify the problems the patient is having 


solution and listen to what they have to 


in activities of daily living. 


say.” 


n  Know the patient’s functional levels. 


n  Voice:  “Tell me what your choice is.” 


n  Know what motivates the patient and  


n  Evaluate:  “How did using your choice 


use it. 


work out? Was it an effective solution?” 


n  Be aware of the amount of cueing 


the patient needs and make it readily 


In this electronic age, e-mail and texting have 


available. 


become the communication methods of choice for 


n  Coordinate care with family and the 


social communication, taking the place of the tradi-


therapeutic team. 


tional phone call. Therefore, a patient who is impul-


n  Fade supports as the patient becomes 


sive and unable to make sound judgments regarding 


more self-reliant. 


 200  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch n  It is important to provide direct and 


therapeutic approach is effective with specific tasks, 


consistent feedback to patients. 


one can use it to accomplish very functional goals 


n  Repeated stimulus drills are recommended 


for ADL needs. If, however, the restorative feature of 


as the SLP attempts to help the patient 


errorless learning is not effective, the clinician can 


process information, gain capacity 


then turn to the compensatory approach (Halpern 


and speed, shift attention, and resist 


& Goldfarb, 2013). 


distractions. 


A note About generalization 


errorless Learning


in people with TBI


 Errorless learning  is a restorative approach, not a Transfer and maintenance of skills learned in the 


compensatory one. The critical element in errorless 


clinic to real-life situations is not guaranteed in peo-


learning is the attempt to eliminate errors during 


ple with TBI. Ylvisaker, Szekeres, and Feeney (2008) 


the acquisition stage of learning, for example, a new 


suggest that treatment must be “context sensitive, 


skill, a new behavior, or a task. The stages of error-


every day, and routine-based” (p. 902) for general-


less learning are:


ization to occur. This is most easily accomplished by 


selecting goals that reflect the patient’s ADL needs 


n  Break the task into small steps. 


and have relevance and personal meaning. Further-


n  Model first, and then ask for a response. 


more, this highlights the importance of understand-


n  Discouraging guessing. 


ing the premorbid lifestyle of the patient that can be 


n  When an error is made, it is corrected 


obtained through a thorough case history taken at 


immediately. 


the time of the initial contact (and may include fam-


n  Fade the prompts used for skills 


ily members’ input). One can also use the Commu-


acquisition. 


nication History and Interest Form (Klein & Hahn, 


2007, pp. 7–11). Simply stated, generalization can 


This type of intervention is similar to drill 


occur if the therapeutic goals reflect the patient’s 


work because it requires massed practice in order 


premorbid life and interests. 


to achieve accuracy. Errorless learning can be an 


The Brain Injury Association of America has 


effective method with the TBI population because 


excellent resources and includes a listing of cogni-


it involves direct instruction, teaches specific tasks, 


tive aids to assist in treatment (http://www.biausa 


is strategy-based instruction, and focuses on self-


.org) along with outreach for each state. Profession-


monitoring. The patient experiences internal rewards 


als, patients, family, and friends can interact with 


as they accomplish the task without error. Research 


experts using live chats, learn through workshops, 


does show that new neuronal growth occurs as a 


gain information on how to access benefits, and 


result of the repetition and drill. Also, because this 


connect with community resources for optimal care. 








7.  trAuMAtic BrAin inJurY  201


 Case Scenario:  Samuel


© Amazingmikael


— dreamstime.com


 History and Physical (H & P):   22-year-old African American male admitted s/p motor vehicle accident (MVA) versus tree with lateral impact; patient was unrestrained and found partially ejected from the vehicle; combative but conscious on the scene; moving all extremities. Initial CT scan of the head revealed bilateral mandibular fractures and diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) at the vertex; subdural hematoma (SDH) at the falx; GCS in ED: 9/15. 


 Past Medical History (PMH):   No significant past medical history; independent with all ADLs prior to this admission. 


 Social History:   Lives alone; high school graduate with a history of learning disability; works in environmental services for a local hospital. 


 Surgical History:   Unremarkable. 


A Functional Analysis of samuel’s TBI


Once Samuel is stabilized in the acute care phase of his recovery, most, if not all, of his rehabilitation will take place in a brain injury unit at a rehabilitation hospital. Figure 7–3 shows Samuel’s Diagnostic Profile and Figure 7–4 shows his Target Assessment Snapshot. Typically, patients like Samuel will be discharged to 


 





y be 


oor 


en pen 


P


y be at 


e. 


rated on 


areness is 


. 


ve


spelling 


aw


le to 


raphasias:


ty 


Pa


None


ent (ma


. 


perse


fe


Unab





s. 


y. 


rm


Identifying Objects & 


Their Functions:


WFL


es when giv


ios; 


bl


rsts are common; 


e. 





wing:


ib


onality Characteristics:


bu


bl





WFL. 


impai


ita





l according to parent). 


rs


ct; 


ry


Dra


Scr


and paper


ve


vironment


Pe


irr


fe


Fluency:


WFL


sa-


ct;fe


ver


r monosyllabic words; 





:


fo


ientation to time/place/dat


ents to plan his da


-taking errors; 


flat af


y be 


ning 


by


ev


Current 


Emotional out


flat af


rn


 


Oral Spelling:


WFL 


polysyllabic words impaired and ma


due to memo


premorbid le


l; ma


.ry


ve


  


e contact; 


r home-based ADL scenar


mittent tu


ey


standing Con


. 


; has difficulty understand-


fo


ries of daily 


ing 


Pragmatic Skills


Inter


poor 


occasional taboo language noted 


in response to questioning; 


spontaneous utterances are 


oor


,"  and "That's a stupid question." Sa


Under


tional Speech:


P


ing connected speech. 


ow


: 


ticulation:


oor at word le


r hospital and home-based en





Ar


WFL


Written Spelling:


P


due to premorbid lear


disability complicated 


current head inju


y sessions


lem-solving 


fo


ved dur








odic tearfulness ri


rated 


w and labored. 


Executive Functions:


Requires daily and frequent or


prob


"I don't kn


poor 


sequence a se


Emotional Lability:


Pe


obser


therap


ve


t not 








. 


t 


ry


bu


sational Ability


r, he can respond 


e, 


bu


better 





rsational thread; 


e 


. 


ver


ve


 


bl


r 


memo


nve


we


rial in the paragraph. 


r nam


fo


ation; 


rm


Con


Difficulty maintaining a 


co


ho


to simple questions


accurately


. 


legi


l; patient perse


fo


ed. 


rm


y:


comprehension at the 


fo


ry


ve


Oral Reading: Reading aloud is slo


ents from recent


response to all questions


ev


osod


r 


standing Stories & 


es” 


y impaired 


.  Long-te


Pr


fo


Monotone



OceanofPDF.com

Acquired Language Disorders: A Case-Based Approach, Third Edition
    
    
    
    
  


  















“y


Self-generated:


Functional 


his address; 


disorganiz


aragraphs:


oor audito


val-Naming:


Under


P


P


paragraph le


on a 


related to the mate


r, 


Frustration:


Not noted at the time of


assessment. 


ve


wn 


as in 


m memor


we


. 





ho


 


t-ter


Retrograde amnesia present


xical Retrie


ticipating. 


. 


vel and w


t throughout high 


Memory:


Shor


semantic and episodic in


at procedural tasks


is mildly impaired 


past. 


ing skills


Le


Confrontation naming is 


WFL when interested in 


par


wn and unkno


vel Comprehension:


ypophonia can 


. 


. 


are of 


h


wareness:


w


xts; 


or simple one-step 


le to comply with 


ning suppor


; una


. 


ect intelligibility


ntence-le


or ADL 


Intelligibility:


WFL in kno


conte


aff


Writing to Dictation:


Unab


directions


oor


Executing Commands:


WFL f


commands


Se


Moderately impaired; 


premorbidly patient read at the 


4th–5th grade le


lear


school. 


vironment. 


Deficit A


P


communication deficits; 


poor self-monitor


or words and 


Visuospatial 


Skills:


WFL f


needs in hospital 


en


 


samuel. 


Repetition Ability:


WFL f


sentences


 


ing 


ration 


e. 


le and 


ved from 


es/no 


ve


Yes/No 


e attention is 


profile for 


perse


y. 


ut impro


vel Comprehension:


, b


or counting, 


or simple y


xit


. 


or tasks requir


le


wering 


nally distractib


rd-le


ying:


Selectiv


tness:


utomatic Speech:


ys of the week, 


riab


A


WFL f


da


alphabet with a 


verbal prompt to 


facilitate initiation. 


Rate:


WFL


Ans


Questions:


WFL f


questions; 


noted on items of increased 


comple


Wo


Mildly impaired, worse on 


multisyllabic and abstract 


words


Cop


Copies basic shapes and 


letters when attentiv


Attention/Concentration:


Exter


resentful of redirection to 


task. 


poor f


sustained concentration. 


Aler


Va


baseline on admission. 


iagnostic 


 


.  d


h


y


–3


vioral


Speec


uditor


re 7


Language


A


Reading


Written


Expression


Expression


Cognition


Beha


Symptoms


u


Comprehension 


igF


202


 


7.  trAuMAtic BrAin inJurY  203


1 – Normal


Atten tion


Mem  ory


2 – Mild-Moderate Impairment


3 – Moderate-Severe Impairment


4 – Severe-Profound Impairment


E


Impaired Cognitive Function


2


R2


Language


W3


C3


Executive   Functions


Visual   Spatial


Figure 7–4.   target Assessment snapshot for samuel. 


a freestanding rehabilitation hospital for a short stay and then to home. He will then begin outpatient services including a community reentry program. To return to work and his premorbid social environment, Samuel will need to improve both his communication skills and his behaviors, as deficits in both areas will affect his employability and his ability to establish and maintain social relationships. The clinician must always focus on the three major areas of impairment in people with TBI: the neurologic and physical, the cognitive-linguistic, and the behavioral/emotional. Not every patient will demonstrate equal impairment in all three areas. For example, Samuel has cognitive-linguistic impairment as well as behavioral difficulties. Other patients may demonstrate significant cognitive-linguistic deficits yet have fewer behavioral challenges, although this is a rarer scenario in the context of significant cognitive-linguistic deficits. 


Treatment for Samuel must address his cognitive deficits and his irritability. He will have more difficulty becoming a contributing member to society if he cannot solve problems, think critically, and have an insightful understanding of his deficit areas. Therefore, helping Samuel develop self-monitoring skills to prevent emotional outbursts is important. Here the SLP can cotreat with a rehabilitation psychologist and other professionals, each focusing on aspects within their own scope of practice. In addition, the SLP can reinforce the self-monitoring techniques that the psychologist taught Samuel to use when necessary. Samuel’s memory deficits must be addressed very early during his rehabilitation. Without a functional memory, Samuel will be dependent on others for many ADLs. Finally, family counseling and education must always be an integral part of Samuel’s rehabilitation program. The family will need support and information to help them manage and understand the “new Sam,” as he charts a challenging course back to functional cognitive-linguistic and behavioral skills. 


 204  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Critical Thinking/Learning Activity


1.  What are some tools that you can use to monitor Samuel’s auditory comprehension progress? How would you chart this data? 


2.  How will you manage Samuel’s attentional problems during the evaluation? 


3.  What are some ways that you can use the family to assist you in Samuel’s treatment? 


4.  Design a family education program based on Samuel’s profile. 


5.  How will you use the DRS in Samuel’s case? 


Treatment Considerations


Samuel is at Level V (Confused Inappropriate Nonagitated, requiring maximal assistance) on the RLA at the time of evaluation, and his DRS score was 5 


(Moderate). His lack of deficit awareness, impaired attention (poor eye contact), and compromised auditory comprehension will create challenges to his ability to participate in therapy, especially in the acute phase of his hospitalization. 


The team must immediately address Samuel’s attentional problems, so that he can participate in therapy and process incoming information. This is critical, especially during his acute care hospitalization, when many staff members are working with him and making requests of him so that they can help him. Daily monitoring of his attentional, executive functions and auditory processing skills is critical for planning the next level of care for Samuel. The RLA and the DRS 


would be useful in this regard. In the acute care phase of TBI, the major emphasis is on assessment and monitoring progress, for example, via the RLA, the DRS, and serial testing, so that the therapist at the next level of care has the information needed to establish optimal, realistic, and functional rehabilitation goals. The three primary areas that need to be addressed to optimize Samuel’s functional communication and prepare him for rehabilitation are:


n  Auditory comprehension


n Behavior


n  Executive functioning


The following are more detailed treatment considerations for Samuel’s case: n  It is important to demonstrate patience. Samuel will need more time to process and respond. You also will need to be aware that as he moves through the RLA levels, his behavior will become more manageable. 


n  Supplement auditorily presented information with pictures and written words. This will optimize his response by engaging his visual attention system. 


n  Talk to nursing about the medications that Samuel is prescribed. 


This will affect his ability to participate and even determine the most optimal time for your session with him. 


 


7.  trAuMAtic BrAin inJurY  205


n  Design auditory comprehension tasks that build on Samuel’s strengths, for example, start at the one-step command level gradually building to more complexity. 


n  Reinforce his successful trials to facilitate compliance and engagement in therapy. 


n  Use objects, sentences, and tasks that relate to his current needs. 


For example, use his toothbrush and comb during a processing task instead of disconnected and abstract commands. 


n  Reinforce positive and compliant behavior during therapy. Use the reinforcement schedule that is most appropriate for his age and one that will help to ensure generalization of the desired behavior(s). 


n  Provide continual counseling and education to Samuel’s caregivers. 


n  Engage them in the therapeutic process, so that they can get firsthand knowledge about his skills and deficit areas. Teach them how to implement the therapeutic program with Samuel. 


Therapeutic goals Using A-FroM (Kagan, 2011; 


adapted to represent “living with traumatic brain injury.”) Samuel’s goals reflect his interest in his home environment and his garden. He plants a variety of vegetables and enjoys sharing his harvests with friends and family. Samuel enjoys his work caring for facilities at a local hospital and interacting with his coworkers. 


1.  Samuel will engage in turn-taking skills while answering and asking “wh-” 


questions. 


2.  Samuel will sequence a series of gardening tasks with verbal prompts as needed. 


3.  Samuel will use environmental cues to orient himself to time, place, and date. 


4.  Samuel will write his name, address, and phone number independently to complete a form. 


5.  Samuel will use a memory book to sequence a series of daily events to plan his day. 


6.  Samuel will demonstrate his ability to secure help in case of an emergency. 


7.  Samuel will demonstrate the ability to self-monitor his emotional outbursts. 


Figure 7–5 provides the A-FROM domains (Kagan et al., 2008; adapted for TBI) for Samuel that were used to formulate his therapeutic goals. 


 206  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Participation in life situations = 


Interested in socializing with friends and 


gardening. 


Communication 


Personal, identity, 


& language 


Living with 


attitudes & feelings = 


environment = 


Inattentive; 


Lives alone; poor 


traumatic 


distractible; irritable; 


self-monitoring of 


brain injury


unaware of deficits; 


errors wh


ic


wh h


ic  can


can 


emotional outbursts 


affect his interactions 


common. 


with others. 


Language & related impairments = 


Difficulty maintaining conversation; poor 


auditory comprehension; reading and 


writing limited; working memory impaired; 


history of learning disability. 


Figure 7–5.   A-FroM model for samuel. 


references


Englander, J., & Cifu, D. X. (2005). Clinical elements that predict outcome after traumatic brain injury: 


A prospective multicenter recursive partitioning 


Brain Trauma Foundation. (2000a, June). The Ameri-


(decision-tree) analysis.  Journal of Neurotrauma, can Association of Neurological Surgeons: The joint 


 22(10), 1040–1051. 


section on neurotrauma and critical care.  Journal of 


Bushnik, T., Englander, J., & Duong, T. (2004). Medical Neurotrauma,  17(6–7), 573–581. 


and social issues related to posttraumatic seizures in 


Brain Trauma Foundation. (2000b, June). The Ameri-


persons with traumatic brain injury.  Journal of Head 


can Association of Neurological Surgeons: The joint 


 Trauma Rehabilitation,  19(4), 296–304. 


section on neurotrauma and critical care. Glasgow 


Carroll, L. I., Cassidy, J. D., Peloso, P. M., Borg, J., Von Coma Scale score.  Journal of Neurotrauma,  17(6–


Holst, H., Holm, L., . . . World Health Organization 


7), 563–571. 


Collaborating Centre Task Force on Mild Traumatic 


Brehaut, J., Miller, A., Raina, P., & McGrail, K. (2003). 


Brain Injury. (2004). Prognosis for mild traumatic 


Childhood behavior disorders and injuries among 


brain injury: Results of the WHO Collaborating 


children and youth: A population-based study.  Pedi-


Center Task Force on Mild Traumatic Brain Injury. 


 atrics, 111(2), 262–269. 


 Journal of Rehabilitation Medicine,  43(Suppl.), Brown, A. W., Malec, J. F., McClelland, R. L., Diehl, N. N., 84–105. 


 


7.  trAuMAtic BrAin inJurY  207


Dawodu, S. T. (2007).  Traumatic brain injury: Defini-


Kennedy, M. R. T., Coelho, C., Ylvisaker, M., Sohlberg, 


 tion, epidemiology, and pathophysiology.  Retrieved M. M., Avery, J., Turkstra, L. S., & Yorkston, K. (2008). 


from http://www.emedicine.com/pmr/TOPIC212 


Intervention for metacognitive and executive dys-


.HTM


function after TBI. In L. S. Turkstra & J. McCarty 


Ciccia, A. H., & Threats, T. (2015). Role of contex-


(Eds.),  Evidence-based practice in traumatic 


tual factors in the rehabilitation of adolescent 


 brain injury (pp. 31–37) .  Bethesda, MD: American survivors of traumatic brain injury: Emerging con-Speech-Language-Hearing Association Professional 


cepts identified through modified narrative review. 


Development . 


 International Journal of Language and Communi-


Kesler, S. R., Adams, H. F., Blasey, C. M., & Bigler, E.D. 


 cation Disorders, 50(4), 436–451. 


(2003). Premorbid intellectual functioning, educa-


Elovic, E., & Zafonte, R. D. (2001). Spasticity manage-tion, and brain size in traumatic brain injury: An 


ment in traumatic brain injury.  Physical Medicine 


investigation of the cognitive reserve hypothesis. 


 Rehabilitation State of Art Review,  15, 327–348. 


 Applied Neuropsychology,  10(3), 153–162. 


Guy, S. (2012, October 4). Psychological toll of wars 


Klein, E., & Hahn, S. (2007).  Focus on function II: Gainin Afghanistan and Iraq mounts as veterans return 


 ing essential communication skills (2nd ed.) .  Aus-home.  NBC News.com, Rock Center with Brian 


tin, TX: Pro-Ed. 


Williams. 


Legome, E., & Wu, T. (2006).  Postconcussive syn-


Hagen, C. (1998).  Revised levels of cognitive function-drome.  Retrieved from http://www.emedicine.com/ 


 ing, rehabilitation of the head-injured adult: Com-


EMERG/topic865.htm


 prehensive physical management (3rd ed.). Downey, Neimeier, J. P. (2010).  Evidence-based assessment and CA: Professional Staff Association of Rancho Los 


 interventions for traumatic brain injury.  Franklin, Amigos National Rehabilitation Center (http://www 


TN: Summit Professional Education. 


.rainbowrehab.com/Education_&_Publications/ 


Neimeier, J. P., Kreutzer, J. S., & Taylor, L. A. (2005). 


ranchos-los-amigos.php). Used with permission. 


Acute cognitive and neurobehavioral intervention 


Halpern, H., & Goldfarb, R. (2013).  Language and 


for individuals with acquired brain injury: Prelimi-


 motor speech disorders in adults (3rd ed.). Burling-nary outcome data.  Neuropsychology Rehabilitation, ton, MA: Jones & Bartlett Learning. 


 15, 129–146. 


Hanten, G., Wilde, E. Menefee, D., Li, X., Vasquez, C., 


Niogi, S. N., Mukherjee, P., Ghajar, J., Johnson, J., Kol-Lane, S., . . . Levin, H. (2008). Correlates of social 


ster, R. L., & Sarkar, R., McCandliss, B. D. (2008). 


problem solving during the first year after traumatic 


Extent of microstructural white matter injuring in 


brain injury in children.  Neuropsychology, 22(3), post-concussive syndrome correlates with impaired 


357–370. 


cognitive reaction time. A 3T diffusion tensor imag-


Hirtz, D., Thurman, D. J., Gwinn-Hardy, K., Mohamed, 


ing study of mild traumatic brain injury.  American 


M., Chaudhuri, A. R., & Zulusky, R. (2007). How 


 Journal of Neuroradiology,  29, 967–973. 


common are the “common” neurological disorders? 


Northeast Center for Special Care. (2007).  Rancho Los Neurology,  68, 326–377. 


 Amigos Cognitive Scale. Retrieved from http://www Hovda, D. A. (2007).  What is so mild about mild trau-


.northeastcenter.com/rancho_los_amigos.htm


 matic brain injury? [Powerpoint slides]. Retrieved Numminen, H. J. (2011). The incidence of traumatic 


from http://www.calbia.org/hovda.pdf


brain injury in an adult population — How to clas-


Jennett, B., & Bond, M. (1975). Assessment of outcome sify mild cases?  European Journal of Neurology, 


after severe brain damage.  Lancet,  1, 480–484. 


460–464. 


Kagan, A., (2011). A-FROM in action at the Aphasia 


Ozen, L. J., & Fernandes, M. A. (2012). Slowing down 


Institute.  Seminars in Speech and Language, 32(3), after a mild traumatic brain injury: A strategy to 


216–228. 


improve cognitive task performance.  Archives of 


Kagan, A., Simmons-Mackie, N., Rowland, A., Huij-


 Clinical Neuropsychology,  27(1), 85–100. 


bregts, M., Shumway, E., McEwen, . . . Sharp, S. 


Pangilinan, P. H. (2008).  Classification and compli-


(2008). Counting what counts: A framework for cap-


 cations of traumatic brain injury.  Retrieved from turing real-life outcomes of aphasia intervention.   


http://www.emedicine.com/pmr/topic213.htm


 Aphasiology, 2 (3), 258–280. 


Parcell, D. L., Ponsford, J. L., Rajaratnam, S. M., & Red-Kalinian, H. (2008).  Definition of postconcussive syn-man, J. R. (2006). Self-reported changes to nighttime 


 drome or concussion. Retrieved from http://www 


sleep after traumatic brain injury.  Archives of Physi-


.neuropsychconsultant.com/postconcussive.html


 cal Medicine and Rehabilitation,  87(2), 278–285. 


 208  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Pegg, P. O., Jr., Auerbach, S. M., & Seel, R. T. (2005). The Daily. Retrieved from http://www.sciencedaily.com/ 


impact of patient-centered information on patients’ 


releases/2006/04/060406102527.htm


treatment satisfaction and outcome in traumatic 


Teasdale, G., & Jennett, B. (1974). Assessment of coma brain injury rehabilitation.  Rehabilitation Psychol-and impaired consciousness. A practical scale.  Lan-


 ogy,  50, 366–374. 


 cet,  13(2), 81–84. 


Perri, G. (2012). Understanding mild traumatic brain 


Vos, P. E., Alekseenko, Y., Battistin, L., Ehler, E., Ger-injury.  Brain Injury Association of Kentucky. 


stenbrand, F., Muresanu, D. F., . . . von Wild, K. 


Retrieved from http://www.brainline.org


(2012). Mild traumatic brain injury.  European Jour-


Polito, M. Z., Thompson, J. W. G., & DeFina, P. A. 


 nal of Neurology, 191–198. 


(2010). A review of the International Brain Research 


Wade, D. T., King, N. S., Wenden, F. J., Crawford, S., & Foundation novel approach to mild traumatic brain 


Caldwell, F. E. (1998). Routine follow-up after head 


injury presented at the international conference on 


injury: A second randomized controlled trial.  Jour-


behavioral health and traumatic brain injury.  Jour-


 nal of Neurology, Neurosurgery, and Psychiatry,  65, nal of the American Academy of Nurse Practitio-177–183. 


 ners,  22, 504–509. 


Webb, W. G., & Adler, R. K. (2008).  Neurology for the Ponsford, J., Grant, M., Cameron, P., Fitzgerald, M., 


 speech-language pathologist (5th ed.). St. Louis, MO: Mikocka-Walus, A., & Schonberger, M. (2012). Pre-Mosby Elsevier. 


dictors of postconcussive symptoms 3 months after 


Wetzel, C. D., & Squire, L. R. (1982). Cued recall in mild traumatic brain injury.  Neuropsychology,  26(3), anterograde amnesia.  Brain and Language,  51, 304–313. 


70–81. 


Rappaport, M., Hall, K. M., Hopkins, H. K., Belleza, 


Ylvisaker, M., & Feeney, T. (2007). Pediatric brain 


T., & Cope, D. N. (1982). Disability rating scale for injury: social, behavioral, and communication dis-severe head trauma: Coma to community.  Archives of 


ability.  Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Clinics Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,  63, 118–123. 


 of North America, 18,  133–144. 


Sohlberg, M. M., Avery, J., Kennedy, M. R. T., Coelho, 


Ylvisaker, M., Szekeres, S. F., & Feeney, T. (2008). Com-C., Turkstra, L. S., Ylvisaker, M., & Yorkston, K. 


munication disorders associated with traumatic 


(2008). Attention training after TBI. In L. S. Turks-


brain injury. In R. Chapey (Ed.),  Language interven-


tra & J. McCarty (Eds.),  Evidence-based practice in tion strategies in aphasia and related neurogenic 


 traumatic brain injury (pp. 26–31) .  Bethesda, MD: communication disorders (5th ed., pp. 917–918). 


American Speech-Language-Hearing Association 


Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. 


Professional Development . 


Ylvisaker, M., Turkstra, L., Coelho, C., Yorkston, K., Ken-Springhouse. (2007).  Alarming signs and symptoms: 


nedy, M., Sohlberg, M., . . . Avery, J. (2007). Behav-


 Lippincott manual of nursing practice.  Philadel-


ioral interventions for children and adults with 


phia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. 


behavior disorders after TBI: A systematic review 


Szaflarski, J. (2006, April 6). Study supports theory 


of the evidence.  Brain Injury,  21(8), 769–805. 


why brain-injured children often recover.  Science 





 Chapter 8


deMenTIA


Introduction


chiatric Association, 2013), the incidence of demen-


tia is relatively high in the population and rises with 


age. In countries with higher-income, the overall 


Dementia is classified as a syndrome in that it is char-


prevalence of dementia is 5% to 10% during the 


acterized by a constellation of symptoms (Bayles & 


seventh decade of life. In people diagnosed with 


Tomoeda, 2007). Individuals who are diagnosed with 


Alzheimer’s disease, 7% range between the ages of 


dementia have multiple cognitive deficits. Dementia 


65 and 74 years. This rises dramatically to 53% for 


can result from various etiologies such as cerebrovas-


those between 75 and 84 years of age (Alzheimer’s 


cular disease, Alzheimer’s disease, HIV disease, Par-


Association, 2019). Within the  DSM-5, dementia 


kinson’s disease, Huntington’s disease, Pick’s disease, 


is included in the section on neurocognitive dis-


Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, head trauma, or other med-


orders (NCDs). Core features include an acquired 


ical conditions, including substance-induced demen-


cognitive decline in one or more of six cognitive 


tia. Individuals with a diagnosis of dementia must 


domains (complex attention, executive function, 


exhibit memory impairment and may exhibit one or 


learning and memory, language, perceptual-motor, 


more of the following symptoms: aphasia, agnosia, 


and social cognition). Behavioral problems such as 


apraxia, and/or impaired executive functions, signifi-


paranoia, hallucinations, and repetitiveness may 


cant enough to affect occupational and social func-


develop because of the neuropathology and can 


tioning (American Psychiatric Association, 2013). 


interfere with communication. Agitation is gener-


The prevalence of dementia exceeds 10% in people 


ally present with advanced cognitive impairment 


over 65 years of age and rises to 30% for people over 


across all NCDs. 


85 years of age (Martini, Castiglione, Bovo,Vallesi, & Diagnosis often begins with someone who 


Gabelli, 2014), and the incidences of dementia are 


knows the person well enough to report changes in 


increasing. This can be partially explained by the 


that individual’s behaviors and/or cognitive-linguistic 


fact that people are living longer, and it is estimated 


abilities. Objective assessment measures should also 


that by the year 2050, 14 million Americans will be 


be used with these individuals to evaluate their 


diagnosed with Alzheimer’s dementia. As recently 


cognitive-linguistic skills because a diagnosis requires 


as 30 years ago, dementia was unfamiliar to most 


both qualitative and quantitative information. The 


Americans, including speech-language pathologists 


 DSM-5 provides more information on cognitive, 


(SLPs) (Bayles & Tomoeda, 2007). 


behavioral, and functional symptoms to further assist 


with differential diagnosis. These include:


Characteristics


n  A notable decline from prior performance 


in one or more cognitive domains


According to the  Diagnostic and Statistical Manual 


n  The deficits interfere with independence 


 of Mental Disorders (5th ed.;  DSM-5; American Psy-in everyday activities





209


  210  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch n  Cognitive deficits do not occur exclusively 


cognition and/or executive abilities. For the behav-


with a state of delirium


ioral variant, the person experiences three or more 


n  Cognitive deficits are not better explained 


of the following symptoms: behavioral disinhibition, 


by mental disorders such as major 


apathy, loss of sympathy/empathy, perseverative/rit-


depressive disorder or schizophrenia 


ualistic behavior, or hyperorality/dietary changes. 


(American Psychiatric Association, 2013). 


There is also a prominent decline in the person’s 


social cognition and/or executive functions. For the 


NCDs include the following etiological subtypes:


language variant, the person exhibits prominent 


decline in speech production, word finding/nam-


n  Alzheimer’s disease


ing objects, grammar, or comprehension of words. 


n  Frontotemporal lobar degeneration


Learning, memory and perceptual-motor functions 


n  Lewy body disease


are largely spared. Like Alzheimer’s disease, cerebro-


n  Vascular disease


vascular disease, another type of neurodegenerative 


n  Traumatic brain injury


disease, substance use or other mental, neurologic, 


n  Substance/medication induced


or systemic disease must be ruled out before a diag-


n  HIV infection


nosis of a frontotemporal NCD can be made. 


n  Prion disease


For a diagnosis of neurocognitive disorder with 


n  Parkinson’s disease


 Lewy bodies, there must be an insidious onset and n  Huntington’s disease


gradual progression. The core features include fluc-


n  Due to another medical condition such as 


tuating cognition with variations in attention and 


multiple sclerosis


alertness levels. The patient often has recurrent and 


n  Due to multiple etiologies


detailed visual hallucinations, spontaneous features of 


n  Unspecified neurocognitive disorder


Parkinsonism and cognitive decline. Again, cerebro-


vascular disease, another type of neurodegenerative 


Of those listed, Alzheimer’s disease, frontotempo-


disease, substance use or other mental, neurologic, or 


ral lobar degeneration, and Lewy body disease are 


systemic disease must be ruled out before a diagnosis 


considered neurodegenerative. A discussion of the 


of Lewy body dementia can be made. 


diagnostic criteria according to  DSM-5 for those 


dementias follows. 


For a medical diagnosis of neurocognitive dis-


diagnostic Factors


order due to  Alzheimer’s disease (responsible for 60% to 90% of those with dementia according to 


Dementia is usually diagnosed long after its initial 


the  DSM-5) there must be an insidious onset and 


onset. The first symptoms are generally memory 


gradual progression in one or more of the cogni-


difficulties and forgetfulness. One diagnostic chal-


tive domains. The individual also experiences mem-


lenge is to differentiate mild dementia from cogni-


ory decline and difficulty learning plus decline in 


tive decline due to depression (pseudo-dementia). 


one additional cognitive domain (usually executive 


Radiologic imaging such as CT scan, lab tests, and 


function). As the disease progresses, visuoconstruc-


neuropsychological assessment may help differenti-


tional/perceptual motor ability and language are 


ate and identify dementia versus other disease pro-


also affected. However, the clinician must keep in 


cesses than can mimic dementia. A more recently 


mind that cerebrovascular disease, another neurode-


developed diagnostic screening test, the Electrical 


generative disease, substance use, or other mental, 


Alzheimer’s Test (Warner, 2003) is now available. 


neurologic, or systemic disease must be ruled out 


For this procedure, electrodes for an electroen-


first before a diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease can 


cephalogram are placed on the head as well as on 


be made (American Psychiatric Association, 2013). 


the spine of the patient to detect changes in the 


For a medical diagnosis of  frontotemporal neu-


brain’s electrical functions. It takes about 15 min-


rocognitive disorder, there is an insidious onset and 


utes to administer and can be done as an outpa-


gradual progression with prominent decline in social 


tient. The electroencephalogram (EEG) measures a 


 


8. deMentiA  211


person’s P300 latency (event-related evoked poten-


ask questions regarding the patient’s sensorium dur-


tials) to determine if it is normal. The P300 latency 


ing the assessment process. 


reflects information processing of cognitive events. 


According to Hopper and Bayles (2008), a com-


As Alzheimer’s disease begins as a slowing of the 


prehensive battery of tests to assess communicative 


brain’s processing speed, this test has been found 


functions must be administered. Cognitive abili-


useful in detecting signs of cognitive decline before 


ties, including memory, must be assessed. Below 


they are manifested clinically. There is some specu-


is a summary of selected assessment measures for 


lation that this is generated in the frontal, tempo-


dementia:


ral, and parietal lobes. In people with early stage 


dementia, P300 latency exceeds 400 msec, although 


n  Arizona Battery for Communication 


a prolonged P300 latency does occur with normal 


Disorders of Dementia (ABCD), Story 


aging. According to Barclay (2003), P300 may be 


Retelling Subtest for screening purposes 


one test subtle enough to identify changes in the 


(Bayles & Tomoeda, 1993)


brain before documentation of memory loss. There 


n  FAS Verbal Fluency Test (Borkowski, 


is not a clear consensus that the neurodevelopment 


Benton, & Spreen, 1967)


patterns of the P300 component are an electrophysi-


n  Mini-Mental State Examination (Folstein, 


ological memory marker. 


Folstein, & McHugh, 1975) to screen 


Neuropsychologists, speech-language patholo-


attention, concentration, language, and 


gists, and other clinicians must evaluate individuals 


memory


with suspected dementia. A case history including 


n  Boston Naming Test (Kaplan, Goodglass, & 


an interview with significant other(s) is advised 


Weintraub, 1983)


due to familiarity with the patient. They can report 


n  Boston Diagnostic Aphasia Examination-3 


any memory problems or word finding difficulties 


(Goodglass, Kaplan, & Barresi, 2000)


that they observe. Premorbid intelligence is another 


n  The Functional Linguistic Communication 


important factor to consider, so that the clinician 


Inventory (Bayles & Tomoeda, 1994)


can compare the patient’s current functioning with 


n  Western Aphasia Battery-Revised (Kertesz, 


his or her premorbid status. Hearing loss, impaired 


2006)


vision, depression, and medication usage are just a 


n  Clinical Dementia Rating Scale (Hughes, 


few additional pieces of information that must be 


Berg, Danziger, Coben, & Martin, 1982)


taken into consideration when assessing a person’s 


n  Global Deterioration Scale (Reisberg, 


mental status (Hopper & Bayles, 2008). 


Ferris, de Leon, & Crook, 1982)


An examination of the sensorium — vision, hear-


n  Addenbrooke’s Cognitive Examination 


ing, touch, and smell — in patients with a suspected 


(Mioshi, Dawson, Mitchell, Arnold, & 


dementia can provide valuable information that can 


Hodges, 2006)


help with a diagnosis of some neurodegenerative 


conditions. More than 90% of people with dementia 


For a comprehensive list of various assessment 


have been found to have hearing problems. During 


scales used in dementia, see http://www.ncbi.nlm 


preclinical phases, restoring hearing, either through 


.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3487532/


hearing aids or cochlear implantation, has been 


Dementia has both irreversible and reversible 


found to reduce cognitive load and improve cogni-


etiologies. The most familiar causes of irreversible 


tive functioning. There is now scientific evidence 


dementia include Alzheimer’s disease, Huntington’s 


to support the direct impact auditory and vestibu-


disease, vascular disease, and Parkinson’s disease, 


lar rehabilitation has on cognition and its decline 


frontotemporal-parietal dementia, Creutzfeldt-Jakob 


(Martini et al., 2014). However, the more important 


disease, and Lewy body disease (for a more extensive 


question for future research is whether the role of 


review of the dementias see Bayles and Tomoeda, 


restoring sensory functioning in adults with cogni-


2007). Fifty percent of those with dementia have 


tive impairment impacts the decline associated with 


Alzheimer’s type, and 20% have vascular dementia 


the disease process. Nevertheless, it is advisable to 


due to multiple infracts and vascular disease. The 


  212  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch average life expectancy for a patient with Alzheimer’s 


sentence fragments are common. Comprehension 


disease is typically 8 years, although it can progress 


for two-step directives is generally functional but 


for 12 years or more from awareness of symptoms 


executing three step directives is variable because 


and diagnosis to death. However, rapid decline is 


the information load is higher. Writing words to dic-


linked to three characteristics: early age onset, delu-


tation is often intact; however, writing any lengthy 


sions or hallucinations, or extrapyramidal signs. In 


material is difficult (Bayles, 2004). The individual 


these patients, small, lacunar infarcts are chronic, 


may still be able to read, but they often forget what 


closing down the micro vessels in the cortical and 


they read. The following symptoms may be present 


subcortical arterial system, thereby compromis-


in the early stage:


ing function in the areas of respective distribution. 


The causes of reversible dementia include, but are 


n  Difficulty handling finances


not limited to, drug toxicity, vitamin deficiency, 


n  Disoriented to time and place


infections and tumors, normal pressure hydrocepha-


n  Episodic and working memory difficulties 


lus, renal failure, congestive heart failure, and thy-


including recalling personal information


roid disease. 


n  Difficulty with complex tasks


n  Decreased awareness of recent events


n  Disjointed conversation (cohesion and 


The stages of dementia


content)


n  Mild semantic dysnomia (apple for pear, 


There are typically three stages of dementia: early, 


pen for pencil, etc.)


middle, and late. Abilities change in the areas of 


n  Mini-Mental State Exam (score 16–24 of 30). 


cognition and memory, self-care, communication, 


and physical and sensory abilities as dementia pro-


 Middle Stage


gresses. In most instances, the individual’s decline 


is gradual and insidious, occurring over a 6-year 


In the middle stage of dementia, the individual may 


period before there is any clinical evidence (Collie & be disoriented to time and place. The individual can 


Maruff, 2000). Figure 8–1 illustrates abilities across 


usually name items when given confrontation nam-


stages of dementia. 


ing tasks but has difficulty engaging in conversation. 


Verbal output tends to have less meaning. Syntax 


 Early Stage


remains intact, but sentence fragments are common. 


Comprehension for two-step directives is generally 


In the early stage of dementia, the individuals can 


functional, but three step directives become more 


define words and describe pictures but may have 


difficult. Like the early stage, the patient may be able 


difficulty following a line of conversation. However, 


to write words to dictation but writing any lengthy 


they still may have the ability to follow a three-step 


material is difficult (Bayles, 2004). The individual 


directive. Some of their sentences remain incom-


may still be able to read, but their memory impair-


plete, and they may repeat themselves. Comprehen-


ment limits their comprehension. The following 


sion of longer material may be reduced. Reading 


symptoms may be present in the middle stage:


and writing at this stage are often spared, but spell-


ing errors are common. Syntax is normal. Decreases 


n  Disoriented to time and place


in psychomotor speed, perceptual speed, abstract 


n  Restlessness and distractibility are 


reasoning, visuospatial performance, and episodic 


common


memory are typically seen in early stages (Bayles, 


n  Poor episodic memory with lack of 


2004). From a functional standpoint, the person in 


awareness for recent events


an early stage of dementia often has minimal diffi-


n  Encoding and retrieval deficits


culty with activities of daily living; however, one may 


n  Poor semantic memory


observe a decline in engaging in conversation with 


n  Poor attention and focus


less meaningful content. Syntax remains intact, but 


n  Visual perception and constructional deficits


 


8. deMentiA  213


80


Early


70


Middle


60


Late


50


40


30


20


ercent of Functional AbilityP 10


0


Physical


Senses


Cog./Mem. 


Self-care


Communication


Figure 8–1.   Abilities and stages of dementia. 


n  Cognitive deficits


n  In very late stage, person may be 


n  Forgetfulness for common information


nonambulatory


n  Greater knowledge about remote past than 


n  Severe impairment in working and 


present


declarative memory


n  Assistance is needed with ADLs (activities 


n  Verbal output is diminished, and 


of daily living)


communication is out of context, but 


n  Verbal output is fluent but slower and less 


grammar is generally intact


informative with word-finding problems


n  All verbal abilities may be lost (especially 


n  Agitation and anxiety may be present


in patients who are bladder and bowel 


n  Reading and writing are impaired


incontinent), and person may be mute


n  Mini-Mental State Exam Scores (8–15  


n  For those who are only bladder 


of 30). 


incontinent, they may be able to respond 


to greetings, recognize their written name, 


 Late Stage


recognize common drawn objects, and 


follow single-step directions (Bayles, 


In the late stage of dementia, there is extensive mem-


Tomoeda, Cruz, & Mahendra, 2000)


ory loss. The individual is disoriented to time, place, 


n  Common language deficits are reflected 


and factors relating to self. Problem-solving abilities 


in being mute, perseverative, echolalic, 


are very limited. Minimal functional vocabulary may 


and having palilalia (excessive repetitive 


remain. Most remaining language consists of either 


utterances)


common social phrases or nonsense. Some people 


n  Scores on Mini-Mental State Exam (0–9  


become mute. However, many can still follow a sim-


of 30). 


ple one-step directive and read basic words (Bayles, 


2004). At this point, they often become incontinent 


(unable to control bladder or bowel releases), and 


Memory systems and dementia


they have difficulty walking. The following charac-


teristics are typically seen at this late stage:


To understand the nature of dementia and its effects 


on the lives of patients and their families, it is help-


n  Disoriented to person, place, and time


ful to become familiar with the memory systems at 


n  Very severe cognitive deficits


work in normal and impaired cognition. Memory 


  214  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch has been defined as representations that are stored 


ory and manipulate it to solve problems (Baddeley, 


through a process of encoding, consolidation, and 


1983; Fockert, Rees, Frith, & Lavie, 2001). The system retrieval for acquisition and manipulation of knowl-serves as a link between working memory and long-


edge (Baddeley, 1999) and multiple systems are 


term memory, so that new information can be stored 


involved. The discussion below describes the rela-


as an episode and later retrieved (Baddeley, 2002). 


tionships among the three primary areas of memory: 


 Long-term memory involves declarative knowledge 


sensory memory, working memory, and long-term 


of information (also known as declarative or explicit 


memory. 


memory) and non-declarative memory (also known 


Sensations come into the peripheral nervous 


as implicit memory), which refers to motor mem-


system and may enter consciousness.  Sensory mem-


ories and conditioned responses (Squire, 1992). 


 ory lasts from less than 1 second to a maximum of Working memory processes information from long-2 seconds. If sensory information enters conscious 


term memory. Diseases that affect cortical areas gen-


awareness, sensation is attended to and can then 


erally affect declarative memory. Diseases that affect 


be interpreted. Previous experiences assist in the 


subcortical structures (i.e., basal ganglia) generally 


interpretation and meaning of the stimuli.  Short-


produce nondeclarative memory deficits (Hopper 


 term memory, also referred to as working memory, 


& Bayles, 2008). Table 8–1 presents a breakdown 


requires attention and concentration to remember 


of declarative and nondeclarative memory systems. 


or retain information. Baddeley (2002) reviewed his 


model of a limited capacity system for temporary 


storage of information and expanded it to include 


Types of dementia


the episodic buffer. In his system, the visuospatial 


sketchpad holds visual images while the phono-


logical loop temporarily stores verbal information. 


vascular dementia (vad)


The central executive manages these subsystems by 


apportioning attention to them. Therefore, a person 


Vascular dementia (VaD) is the second most com-


can hold a concept, word, picture, or idea in mem-


mon cause of dementia. People with hypertension, 


Table 8–1.   declarative and nondeclarative Memory systems declarative Memory (explicit)


nondeclarative Memory (Implicit)


semantic (concepts)


procedural (Motor skills)


•  Involves conceptual knowledge and understanding 


•  Involves learned skills that become automatic with 


of constructs from which people organize their 


practice and repetition (riding a bike). 


world and experiences. 


procedural (verbal and cognitive skills)


episodic (events)


•  Involves learned skills that occur without 


•  This ability is most affected early on in dementia. 


conscious awareness, such as knowing how to get 


this autobiographic system receives and stores 


information to someone through the mail. 


information about events that people experience. 


priming


Lexical (Words)


•  Associations are made so that earlier experiences 


•  Memory for words, their meanings, spelling, 


trigger words, thoughts, and memories of similar 


and pronunciation. these are the linguistic 


experience. 


representations of concepts. 


conditioned responses


•  A reaction to a previous similar stimulus occurs 


due to a chain of associated triggers. habits are 


often developed because of associations for events 


that are repeated. 


 


8. deMentiA  215


atherosclerosis, and a history of previous strokes 


viduals with DAT generally is spared (Bayles, 2004). 


are all at risk for acquiring this type of dementia. 


The brain’s biochemistry also degenerates in these 


VaD is usually caused by ischemia or a restriction of 


patients, in that there is a reduction in the function 


blood flow in the vessels of the brain. Those patients 


of the cholinergic and noradrenergic systems that 


who demonstrate symptoms consistent with demen-


disrupt nerve transmission. Unfortunately, the etiol-


tia after sustaining multiple deep, lacunar strokes, 


ogy of DAT is not certain. Some educated guesses 


are usually diagnosed with multi-infarct dementia 


include aluminum toxicity, immune dysfunction, and 


(MID). It is possible to develop a VaD secondary 


viral infection. More commonly, age, family history, 


to large cerebral infracts, ischemic events, and/or 


and genetics are implicated. Individuals who have a 


microvascular disease; that is, the occlusion of the 


parent or sibling with Alzheimer’s are more likely to 


fine capillaries within the cortex. Approximately 


develop the disease (Alzheimer’s Association, 2013). 


one-fourth to one-third of patients who have had 


The gene with the strongest risk impact is APOE-e4. 


one or more ischemic strokes may develop VaD 


Although everyone inherits a copy of APOE from 


within 3 months (Pohjasvaara et al., 1998). 


their mother and father, those who inherit APOE-


e4 are at increased risk for developing Alzheimer’s 


 Dementia of the Alzheimer’s 


(20% to 25% of cases). After the age of 65, the risk 


 Type (DAT)


doubles every five years. After age 85, approximately 


50% of individuals are at risk for DAT. 


Dementia of the Alzheimer’s type (DAT), more com-


monly known as Alzheimer’s disease, is by far the 


most common type of dementia observed in the 


parkinson’s dementia


population. It was also known as presenile demen-


tia, as its onset can be seen in the fifth decade, 


The dementia associated with Parkinson’s disease 


unlike senile dementia, which is associated with 


(PD) is not observed until the very late stages of the 


normal aging. The cognitive-linguistic, affective, and 


disease process. Parkinson’s disease is a neurode-


behavioral aspects of each type are similar, however. 


generative disease with complex motor disturbances 


On autopsy, the brain of the person with DAT will 


due to a loss of striatal dopaminergic neurons in 


show changes in the association areas of the pari-


the substantia nigra. Typical features of the motoric 


etal, temporal, and frontal lobes, as well as in the 


aspect of this disease are slow movements (bradyki-


hippocampus, a major structure for memory. DAT 


nesia), rigidity, pin wheeling, tremor, a masked-like 


tends to begin in the hippocampal area, which is 


face, and disturbances in gait (festinating), posture, 


essential to forming episodic memories. Therefore, 


and balance. Treatments for PD include the admin-


individuals in early stages have difficulty recalling 


istration of dopamine to restore that neurotrans-


recent events. As the disease progresses to the fron-


mitter to optimal levels and deep brain stimulation 


tal region and temporo-parietal regions of the brain, 


(DBT). According to Bayles (2004), individuals with 


declarative memory is affected for semantic and lexi-


PD have motor speech difficulties due to damage 


cal memories, and the person will have difficulty 


of the basal ganglia and striatal-cortical circuits as 


organizing information and recalling words and 


well as deficits in memory, attention, and execu-


concepts. The basal ganglia and motor cortex are 


tive functioning. However, knowledge for language, 


not impacted throughout most of the disease’s pro-


including sentence comprehension and confronta-


gression and, therefore, procedural memory often 


tion naming, tends to be preserved. 


remains intact (Bayles, 2004). Autopsied brains also 


Individuals at the end stage of PD can manifest 


reveal neuronal plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and 


with cognitive changes consistent with dementia, 


granulovacuolar degeneration, which are all abnor-


although the best estimate indicates that approxi-


mal tissue changes. Although tangles and plaques 


mately 29% of all patients develop it (Marttila & 


lead to cell death and impact intercellular trans-


Rinne, 1976). The etiology of the dementia in PD is 


mission, subcortical structures and the motor strip 


still debated. Some researchers believe that it is due 


remain unaffected. Therefore, the speech of indi-


to cortical degeneration and others to subcortical 


  216  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch degeneration that impairs the neurologic control 


Northen, & Goulding (1988) suggest that Pick’s dis-


of attention (Brown & Marsden, 1988). Rinne et al. 


ease is a variant form of FTD dementia. It is also 


(2000) reported that there was reduced fluorodopa 


rare, seen predominantly in women, with an inci-


uptake in PD individuals in the caudate nucleus and 


dence of one tenth as much as that of DAT. The etiol-


the frontal cortex. They stated that this impairs per-


ogy of Pick’s dementia is due to the loss of neurons, 


formance on any tests that require executive func-


gliosis, and neuronal inclusions called Pick’s bodies. 


tions. Regardless of etiology, PD patients who do 


The pattern of degeneration in these patients is dif-


develop dementia have problems communicating 


ferent from that of FTD or DAT. In the case of the 


due to deficits in memory, attention, and the higher-


Pick’s patient, the neuronal deterioration is primar-


level executive functions (Bayles, 2004). 


ily frontal, but includes the inferior motor area and 


the anterior temporal lobes. Pick’s disease and DAT 


both share one similar structural feature: the dete-


Frontotemporal dementias (FTd)


rioration of the hippocampus and the amygdaloid 


nucleus. The FTD dementias, including Pick’s, have 


Frontal lobe dementias are rare (fewer than 10% of 


characteristic cognitive, behavioral, and language 


all diagnosed cases of dementia).  Frontotemporal 


features. Behaviorally, these patients will demon-


 dementia (FTD) typically has a very early onset, usu-strate reduced spontaneity, reduced insight, and 


ally in the fourth or fifth decade of a person’s life. 


reduced executive functions. Their language abnor-


It is primarily associated with personality changes, 


malities will be noted early in the process, unlike 


reduced language abilities, and difficulty executing 


DAT. These patients can also demonstrate reduced 


complex tasks. People with this type of dementia 


initiation, palilalia, echolalia, and logorrhea (more 


will become moody, self-centered, and unable to be 


so in Pick’s). Mutism can also be observed in middle 


empathic. They may appear unfeeling. A true diag-


to late stage Pick’s disease. 


nosis can only be made upon autopsy. Under those 


conditions, the brain will reveal significant cell loss 


in the frontal and temporal cortices. 


Creutzfeldt-jakob disease (Cjd)


 Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is the second 


most common cause of dementia in younger indi-


Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease is caused by the presence 


viduals. There is progressive atrophy of frontal and/


of prions. Prions are unconventional, transmissible 


or anterior temporal regions of the brain resulting 


agents (not a virus or a bacterium). They are a spe-


in progressive language impairments, referred to as 


cial type of protein that can be transmitted from 


 primary progressive aphasia (PPA). There are three one animal to another. They can cause a group of 


variants of PPA. The nonfluent/agrammatic variant 


degenerative diseases of the nervous system. These 


is characterized by reduced speech rate, articulatory 


diseases can be manifest as sporadic, infectious, or 


difficulties, and limited complexity in sentence pro-


inherited disorders. Only about 15% of cases have 


ductions. The semantic variant is characterized by 


a genetic link. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is 


loss of semantic knowledge, particularly of objects 


defined by the Centers for Disease Control and Pre-


or people, and impaired lexical retrieval. The third 


vention (CDC; 2019) as:


type of PPA is known as logopenic aphasia. Indi-


viduals with this variant have limited speech and 


Classic CJD is a human prion disease. It is a 


word-finding deficits due to an underlying phono-


neurodegenerative disorder with characteristic 


logical impairment, as well as impaired repetition 


clinical and diagnostic features. This disease is 


(Gorno-Tempini et al., 2008; Leyton, Hornberger, 


rapidly progressive and always fatal. Infection 


Mioshi, & Hodges, 2010). 


with this disease leads to death usually within 


 Pick’s disease is a type of frontal lobe dementia, 1 year of onset of illness. Creutzfeldt-Jakob dis-with characteristics that set it apart from the more 


ease (CJD) is a rapidly progressive, invariably 


general types described above. Neary, Snowden, 


fatal neurodegenerative disorder believed to be 


 


8. deMentiA  217


caused by an abnormal isoform of a cellular gly-


become more severe as the disease progresses. Abili-


coprotein known as the prion protein. (https://


ties are often unpredictable, because deficits occur 


www.cdc.gov/prions/cjd/index.html)


randomly during the general progression of the dis-


ease. This unpredictability creates more coping diffi-


A familial form exhibiting autosomal dominant 


culties for the Huntington’s disease patient, because 


inheritance and a new variant (potentially associated 


he or she cannot rely on having or maintaining 


with encephalopathy, bovine spongiform) has been 


various skills at any given time. For example, the 


described. Pathologic features include prominent cer-


Huntington’s disease patient could make a request 


ebellar and cerebral cortical spongiform degenera-


clearly at one moment, but then have significant dif-


tion and the presence of prions (Johnson & Gibbs, 


ficulty articulating that same request a moment later. 


1998). The prognosis for these patients is not favor-


able. They usually die within 1 year of the diagnosis. 


As noted in the AMA definition above, these patients 


overview of research on 


will have symptoms consistent with aphasia. 


Treatment for dementia


huntington’s disease


Speech-language pathologists are often consulted 


to support the patient with dementia and their fam-


Huntington’s disease (HD), also known as Hunting-


ily. In a caseload review survey by the American 


ton’s chorea, is a progressive and fatal neurodegen-


Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA), SLPs 


erative disease. It is a genetic disease (autosomal 


ranked working with individuals with dementia and 


dominant), characterized by choreoathetoid move-


communication-related disorders as the third most 


ments and dementia. The incidence of HD in the 


common treatment they provided in health care set-


population is approximately five per 100,000 and 


tings (dysphagia and aphasia were first and second, 


affects people of northern European descent. The 


respectively). Although medication can help slow 


age of onset is in the third or fourth decade of life. 


the disease process, it cannot prevent its progres-


The initial symptoms are personality changes and 


sion and ultimate decline. 


sometimes frank psychosis, with depression being 


Practice guidelines for individuals presenting 


a very common feature. This neurodegenerative dis-


with a dementia include computer-assisted cogni-


ease is classified as a hyperkinetic movement disor-


tive interventions, spaced-retrieval training, Montes-


der, hence the choreoathetoid movements. 


sori-based interventions (Orsulic-Jeras, Schneider, 


Communication and cognitive functions are 


& Camp, 2000), reminiscence therapy, simulated-


both affected by HD. Soon after onset, the patient 


presence therapy, caregiver-administered cognitive 


begins to manifest characteristics of a hyperkinetic 


stimulation, and caregiver education for more suc-


dysarthria, and HD patients are often nonverbal dur-


cessful communication. The current focus, according 


ing the end stage of the disease process. Language 


to ASHA, is on direct cognitive interventions with 


deficits associated with HD include difficulty initi-


individualized goals, specific to the patient’s needs 


ating conversational speech, language formulation 


and family requests. There is some evidence in the 


problems, word finding problems, poor auditory 


literature of worth considering regarding direct cog-


processing for complex material, and slow response 


nitive therapy for people with dementia. 


time. They also can demonstrate reading and writing 


An evidence-based systemic review revealed 


problems. Cognitively, they have difficulty learning 


effectiveness of directly delivered cognitive interven-


new information and new tasks, exhibit reduced 


tions in people with dementia (Hopper et al., 2013). 


executive functions, and have poor attention and 


Forty-three studies with a total of 556 participants 


concentration (Hamilton et al., 2012). 


(40% male), were included. Most were single-subject 


All these difficulties are usually present in one 


multiple-baseline designs focusing on activities of 


individual. They often begin in a mild form and 


daily living (ADLs). Investigators studied the effects 


  218  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch of cognitive interventions on measures of cognitive-electronic memory aid to provide a series of ver-


communication impairment and activity participa-


bal prompts so that the patient can complete ADLs 


tion for people with dementia. These interventions 


(Lancioni et al., 2010). All participants, ranging from 


included errorless learning, vanishing cues, spaced-


mild to moderated dementia, showed improvement 


retrieval training, and verbal instruction strategies. 


after treatment using the electronic memory aids. No 


Errorless learning is a memory strategy where clini-


generalization for untrained ADLs was found. Com-


cians use cues to reduce a patient’s mistakes while 


binations of treatments were beneficial for activities 


learning or re-learning (Clare & Jones, 2008). Par-


such as using a mobile phone, balancing a check-


ticipants chosen to use errorless learning tended to 


book, and making change (Lowenstein, Acevedo, 


have more severe cognitive impairment. Treatment 


Czaja, & Duara, 2004). Additionally, interventions 


focused on recall of information for names, faces, 


that used memory aids such as a memory book or 


pictures, objects, and occupations. Errorless learn-


wallet, when combined with caregiver training, were 


ing was successful for immediate recall but not after 


found to assist patients. The use of material memory 


a 10-minute delay. Vanishing cues is a technique 


aids was supported. Generally, individuals with mild 


that provides a series of cues and then slowly fades 


and mild to moderate cognitive decline were able to 


them, one at a time, after a successful recall trial 


relearn facts and procedures to improve their daily 


so that learning can progress (Glisky, Schacter, & 


functioning. Improvement in cognition however, 


Tulving, 1986). Mild to moderately impaired indi-


should not be expected. 


viduals with dementia made progress, especially 


Overall results indicated that learning occurred 


with face to name associations. Spaced retrieval 


best in individuals with mild and mild-moderate 


uses prompts at spaced or delayed intervals for 


dementia. Spaced-retrieval training was found to 


extended recall (Camp & Stevens, 1990). The focus 


be promising in helping individuals recall facts and 


of treatment was on recall of information includ-


procedures. Errorless learning and vanishing cues 


ing names, faces, objects, and tasks to perform. 


also yielded positive outcomes. Although general-


Treatment generally included mildly to moder-


ization is desirable, it presented greater challenges 


ately impaired patients with probable Alzheimer’s 


as dementia progressed. Regardless of the training 


dementia. Spaced retrieval training was more suc-


type, it was suggested that intervention focus on 


cessful when the delay time was extended (Hawley, 


functional tasks and ADLs to improve the quality of 


Cherry, Boudreaus, & Jackson, 2008). Verbal instruc-


the person’s life at any given point in time. 


tion strategy is a cognitive intervention that uses an 








8. deMentiA  219


 Case Scenario:  Max


© Andr


eblais


— dreamstime.com


 History and Physical (H & P):  Max, a 76-year-old male presented to a neurologist on consult from his primary physician as an outpatient. The patient was brought in by his wife who reported problems with simple calculations, telling time, and home repair tasks, which were normally simple and routine for him to do. 


 Past Medical History (PMH): Cardiomyopathy; cortical atrophy noted on last MRI with enlarged sulci; hypercholesterolemia; family reported difficulty with numbers and time for approximately 6 months prior to this admission. 


 Social History:  Self-employed in a trucking business; married with two grown children in the area. Some postsecondary education (Associate Degree); naval officer during WWII. Family reported that patient is “less moody” over the past few months. 


 Surgical History:  Hernia repair. 


A Functional Analysis of Max’s dementia


Max’s ability to understand and use language is intact for his ADL needs. Figure 8–2 shows Max’s Diagnostic Profile and Figure 8–3 shows his Target Assessment Snapshot. However, he has difficulty formulating language to discuss recent events and facts, dates and time, facts of general knowledge related to his personal history, and political and social history of the times. His semantic memory 


s. 





e  


 





ly 


e 


le to 


tiv


s. 


ativ


io


ightened, 


rsation. 


rv


r communica-


unab


officer); 


a daily task 


raphasias:


ry


nve


r irregular


fo


fo


ze


Pa


Semantic 


paraphasias 


noted in 


co


poor judgment


ty scenar


.” 


mily members to 


fe


 


poses and often 


x-milita


Identifying Objects & 


Their Functions:


WFL


fa


 


l 





wing:


appointments; 


onality Characteristics:


rigid, confident, asser


. 


ve


Dra


rs


Not functional 


tion pur


ended up in perse


“doodles


ke


le


r home sa


Pe


, more dependent, fr


Fluency:


WFL





Executive Functions:


Relied on 


ma


plan and organi


independently; 


fo


xib


Pragmatic


Skills:


WFL


le-bound (eru


WFL; 


xity of the 


s 


Oral Spelling:


Moderately impaired 


spelled words and polysyllabic word


r 





rsational le


fo


ry


Current 


Premorbidly 


and 


currently


still infle


wa





press 


sational Speech:


nve


  


missing 


ex


. 


en 


ver


by


is 


iv


ry


le to 


g., garden-


ly spelled words and 


rized 


ab


xt dr


, e. 


cused on two 


ed and the comple


. 


le depending on the number of


lv


le to engage in a 


fo


e sentences


ticulation:


vo


iately; 


; patient could be 


, commonly used 


riab


Written Spelling:


Moderately impaired 


irregular


polysyllabic words 


characte


letters


, meal preparation. 


l; ab


rk


Ar


WFL


standing Con


ation. 


va


ned tasks


ve


, and conte


s 


rm


Emotional Lability:


Not noted. 


fo


Under


r simple


is moderately impaired; 


Sentence comprehension 


comprehension at the co


wa


people in


in


rely impaired episodic memo


procedural memo


lear


e discourse 


fo


ry


er


ing to wo


ve


ov


. 


rn








ents; 


r 


more 


s concrete


Oral Reading: WFL  high frequency words and  simple declarativ ev


fo


. 


:


wa


; narrativ


 


press his 


ry


: 


e. 


. 


es 


ex


l to 


r recent 


Memory


Semantic memo


moderately-se


fo


functional 


ing, minor home repairs


rbal cu


y:


t paragraphs


ve


Frustration:


Agitation and 


anxiety noted; 


agitated at night


ve





ed language)


osod


ites functionally at the 


k of income and retu


Pr


WFL


standing Stories & 


or shor


.g., connectiv


s 


Self-generated:


Wr


phrase le


needs if necessa


” 


sational Ability


It’


xtualiz


lac


aragraphs:


ver


ants and needs at the sentence le


Under


P


WFL f


up to 5 sentences in length. 


Errors increase as 


paragraph increases


e sentences; 


. 


brain. 


Con


Common social phrases were used appropr


his w


one-on-one dialogue that 


(conte


topics:


redirected with 


 


my








as 


wareness:


s a hole in it. 





xity increased, e


. 


WFL; 


x 


le to consistently 


l-


e there’


as 


vel Comprehension:


Deficit A


“There is something 


wrong with 


lik


va


ite sentences 


ecuting one-step 


or simple declarativ


amily members and thought 


t 


as unab


ex


e f


wing comple


le to wr


Intelligibility:


WFL


Sentence-le


Good f


moderately impaired as the semantic and 


syntactic comple


and clausal relationships


Writing to Dictation:


Ab


to dictation. 


y were impostors


xical Retrie


Executing Commands:


WFL 


commands w


follo


multistep questions w


mild-moderately impaired. 


atient w


Visuospatial Skills:


P


recogniz


the


Le


Naming:


Naming difficulties noted; 


specifically names of 


people and locations; 


poor confrontation 


naming. 


ytime hours 


 


ens fully aler


y-care 


ak


ety 


ing da


aw


lic. 


Repetition 


Ability:


WFL


Yes/No 


y words and 


tness dur


profile for Max. 


. 


 


sometimes 


vel Comprehension:


wering 


wers to abstract yes/no 


rd-le


ying:


le to cop


tness:


WFL; 


utomatic 


vel of aler


as 


A


Speech:


WFL


Rate:


WFL


Ans


Questions:


Ans


questions were mildly 


impaired. 


Wo


WFL


Cop


Ab


sentences


Attention/Concentration:


Mild-moderately impaired 


raising the issue of saf


at home and in pub


Aler


Le


w


and agitated in the middle of the night 


asking to go to his adult da


program. 


iagnostic 


 


.  d


h


y


–2


vioral


Speec


uditor


re 8


Language


A


Reading


Written


Expression


Expression


Cognition


Beha


Symptoms


u


Comprehension 


igF


220


 


8. deMentiA  221


1 – Normal


Atten tion


Mem   ory


2 – Mild-Moderate Impairment


3 – Moderate-Severe Impairment


4 – Severe-Profound Impairment


E


Impaired Cognitive Function


2


R2


Language


W2


C2


Executive   Functions


Visual   Spatial


Figure 8–3.   target Assessment snapshot for Max. 


is also beginning to show signs of decline, manifested by semantic paraphasias. 


There are concomitant word-finding problems. Max’s procedural memory is still intact, so he can perform basic meal preparation, gardening, and minor home repairs. However, due to his attentional deficits, his safety at home and in public can be compromised. This can lead to dangerous errors while executing activities of daily living. 


Max can write sentences to dictation but can only use writing functionally at the phrase level to express his needs if necessary. His reading comprehension is good for sentences, but is moderately impaired at the more complex paragraph level. This may limit his ability to read and understand detailed or lengthy written instructions. Training the family to give Max written instructions at the short phrase level, supplemented by pictures and/or symbols, is suggested. For example, a written note placed above the sink, “Rinse dishes” paired with a picture or drawing of a dish being washed, may facilitate clean-up. Because Max has a progressive and degenerative disease, the family is advised to manipulate the environment for his comfort and ease. Communication with Max is best when it is about the here and now, supplemented by tangible objects relevant to the context. Max’s wife is his primary caretaker. Unfortunately, Max presents with Capgras syndrome (also known as Imposter syndrome) (Josephs, 2007), which is beginning to affect his relationship with his wife because he thinks she is an imposter, not the woman he married. Max’s wife is engaged in his care and is interested in helping him, but the Capgras syndrome has become an obstacle. 


However, despite this drawback, she is encouraged to participate in his treatment. She is being instructed to reduce her rate of speech and allow time for him to process information and respond appropriately. It is also recommended that she not call attention to his difficulties because he does not have the ability to readily repair his errors. She must also be instructed to reduce the number of people participating in a conversation if Max is to be included. In general, 


  222  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch indirect therapy is most appropriate for Max at this stage of his dementia, with a focus on counseling and education of his family regarding the goals and procedures of this therapeutic approach. The clinician can also consider the FOCUSED 


Caregiver Training Program by Ripich, Ziol, Fritsch, and Durand (1999) for more formal intervention. Finally, Max’s wife may benefit from a support group for families dealing with dementia. 


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity


n  What information indicates that this is a person with dementia? 


n  With progression of the disorder, how would this patient’s prosopagnosia impact communicative effectiveness with his family members? 


n  What are the family counseling and education issues in this case, and how would you address them? 


n  What can you do to facilitate communication when Max is part of a group of people having a conversation? 


n  Write a SOAP note on this patient. Assume that you are seeing the patient for the first time after the evaluation session. Include three short-term therapeutic objectives in your note. 


Treatment Considerations


Max was diagnosed with dementia of the Alzheimer’s type. He tries to participate in conversations but demonstrates frustration when he is unable to do so effectively. As a consequence, he withdraws into silence. His language is composed primarily of idioms, common social phrases, and stereotypic utterances. Because of his memory impairments and inability to drive safely, Max is very dependent on his wife for transportation to appointments. He often wakes his wife during the night thinking that it is, “time to leave.” Max has some awareness of his deficits and told his daughter, “There’s something wrong in my head.” When out in the community, he often becomes impatient and has difficulty staying in one place for more than 15 minutes. Max is most affected by his cognitive rather than linguistic problems. He can still communicate with his family and friends effectively enough to have his daily wants and needs met. As a consequence, Max’s therapy must focus primarily on compensations for his cognitive deficits and secondarily on his minor linguistic impairments. However, the clinician must keep in mind that dementia is a progressive disease process, so Max’s therapy must change as he does, with different accommodations set according to his needs. There are various treatment programs and therapeutic techniques specific to dementia that the clinician can employ, which are highlighted below. 


 


8. deMentiA  223


Therapeutic goals Using A-FroM (Kagan, 2011; 


adapted to represent “living with traumatic dementia.”)


Max’s interests are in watching television, especially sports, and engaging in home repair and landscaping, two hobbies he has enjoyed since his early twen-ties. Max’s deficit awareness is poor which impedes clear thinking about his functional prognosis. Treatment should focus on providing supports for his interactions with others. His intact procedural memory along with written and pictorial instructions may assist him as he attempts to complete his ADLs and engage in simple social interactions appropriately. 


1.  Max will demonstrate the ability to select the correct written solution when given home safety scenarios. 


2.  Max will demonstrate reading comprehension of paragraph level information from the local newspaper by answering “wh-” questions. 


3.  Max will follow written instructions for chores including home repairs and landscaping. 


4.  Family members will be trained to limit the number of people during conversation to increase his ability to participate. 


5.  Family will receive counseling and education about the disorder and the accommodations that can be made so that Max can better participate in social interactions, using the FOCUSED model (Ripich et al., 1999). 


6.  Max will engage in the creation of a memory book with photos and names and a daily log to optimize conversations and complete tasks. 


Figure 8–4 provides the A-FROM domains (Kagan et al., 2008; adapted for dementia) for Max that were used to formulate his therapeutic goals. 


  224  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Participation in life situations =


Interested in watching sports on TV, and 


working on home repair projects and 


landscaping in his yard. 


Communication 


& language 


Personal, identity, 


environment = 


Living 


attitudes & feelings = 


Lives with supportive 


with 


Inflexible, agitated, 


wife; travels and 


dementia


anxious, rigid, 


keeps


keeps bus





y


busy vis


vi itin


si g


tin  


frightened; 


frightened a


ggressiv


aggres e


sive 


family and friends 


at times. 


with his wife. 


Language & related impairments = 


Difficulty maintaining a conversation; 


poor confrontation naming; limited ability 


to follow mutlistep directions, reading 


comprehension diminished with sentence 


complexity. 


Figure 8–4.   A-FroM model for Max. 


references


Baddeley, A. D. (1999).  Essentials of human memory. 


Hove, East Sussex, UK: Psychology Press. 


Baddeley, A. D. (2002). Is working memory still work-


Alzheimer’s Association. (2019).  Alzheimer’s disease 


ing?  European Psychologist,  7(2), 85–97. 


 facts and figures.  Chicago, IL: Author. Retrieved Barclay, L. (2003). P300 latency accurately predicts 


from https://www.alz.org/alzheimers-dementia/


memory impairment.  Clinical Electroencephalogra-


facts-figures


 phy,  34, 124–139. 


Alzheimer’s Association. (2013).  What we know today 


Bayles, K. (2004). Dementia. In R. Kent (Ed.),  The MIT 


 about Alzheimer’s disease.  Chicago, IL: Author. Re-encyclopedia of communication disorders.  Cam-


trieved from http://www.alz.org/research/science/


bridge, MA: A Bradford Book. 


Alzheimer’ss_disease_causes.asp


Bayles, K. A., & Tomoeda, C. K. (1993).  Arizona Battery American Psychiatric Association. (2013).  Diagnostic 


 for Communication Disorders of Dementia.  Austin, and statistical manual of mental disorders (5th ed.). 


TX: Pro-Ed. 


Arlington, VA: Author. 


Bayles, K. A., Tomoeda, C., Cruz, R., & Mahendra, N. 


Baddeley, A. D. (1983). Working memory.  Philosophical (2000). Communication abilities of individuals with 


 transactions of the Royal Society of London. Series B, late-stage Alzheimer’s disease.  Alzheimer’s Disease 


 Biological Sciences,  302(1110), 311–324. 


 and Associated Disorders,  14(3), 176–181. 


 


8. deMentiA  225


Bayles, K. A., & Tomoeda, C. K. (1994).  The functional ule for learning a name-face association in older 


 linguistic communication inventory.  Austin, TX: 


adults with probable Alzheimer’s disease.  Journal 


Pro-Ed. 


 of Clinical and Experimental Neuropsychology,  30, Bayles, K. A., & Tomoeda, C. K. (2007).  Cognitive-com-639–649. 


 munication disorders of dementia.  San Diego, CA: Hopper, T., & Bayles, K. A. (2008). Management of neu-Plural Publishing. 


rogenic communication disorders associated with 


Borkowski, J. G., Benton, A. L., & Spreen, O. (1967). 


dementia. In R. Chapey (Ed.),  Language interven-


Word fluency and brain damage.  Neuropsychologia, 


 tion strategies in aphasia and related neurogenic 


 5, 135–140. 


 communication disorders (5th ed.). Philadelphia, 


Brown, R. G., & Marsden, C. D. (1988). Internal and 


PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. 


external cues and the control of attention in Parkin-


Hopper, T., Bourgeois, M., Pimentel, J., Qualls, C. D., 


son’s disease.  Brain,  111, 323–345. 


Hickey, E., Prymark, T., & Schooling, T. (2013). 


Camp, C., & Stevens, A. (1990). Spaced-retrieval: A mem-An evidence-based systematic review on cognitive 


ory intervention for dementia of the Alzheimer’s type. 


interventions for individuals with dementia.  Ameri-


 Journal of Aging and Mental Health,  10, 58–61. 


 can Journal of Speech-Language Pathology,  22, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (2018). 


126–145. 


 Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease. https://www.cdc.gov/


Hughes, C., Berg, L., Danzinger, W., Coben, L., & Marprions/cjd/index.html


tin, R. (1982).  Clinical Dementia Rating Scale.  Hag-Clare, L., & Jones, R. (2008). Errorless learning in the erstown, MD: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. 


rehabilitation of memory: A critical review.  Neuro-


Johnson, R. T., & Gibbs, C. J. (1998). Creutzfeldt-Jakob psychological Review,  18, 1–23. 


disease and related transmissible spongiform en- 


Collie, A., & Maruff, P. (2000). The neuropsychology 


cephalopathies.  New England Journal of Medicine, 


of preclinical Alzheimer’s disease and mild cogni-


 339(27), 1994–2004. 


tive impairment.  Neuroscience and Biobehavioral 


Josephs, K. A. (2007). Capgras syndrome and its rela-


 Reviews,  24(3), 365–374. 


tionship to neurodegenerative disease.  Archives of 


Fockert, J. W., Rees, G., Frith, C. D., & Lavie, N. (2001). 


 Neurology,  64(12), 1762–1766. 


The role of working memory in visual selective 


Kagan, A., (2011). A-FROM in action at the aphasia 


attention.  Science,  291, 1803–1806. 


institute.  Seminars in Speech and Language,  32(3), Folstein, M. F., Folstein, S. E., & McHugh, P. R. (1975). 


216–228. 


“Mini-Mental State.” A practical method for grading 


Kagan, A., Simmons-Mackie, N., Rowland, A., Huij-


the cognitive state of patients for the clinician.  Jour-bregts, M., Shumway, E., McEwen, Sharp, S. (2008). 


 nal of Psychiatric Research,  12(3), 189–198. 


Counting what counts: A framework for capturing 


Glisky, E. L., Schacter, D., & Tulving, E. (1986). Learn-real-life outcomes of aphasia intervention.   Aphasioling and retention of computer-related vocabulary 


 ogy,  2(3), 258–280. 


in memory-impaired patients: Method of vanishing 


Kaplan, E., Goodglass, H., & Weintraub, S. (1983)  Bos-cues.  Journal of Clinical and Experimental Neuro-


 ton Naming Test. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Wil-psychology,  8, 292–312. 


liams & Wilkins. 


Goodglass, H., Kaplan, E., & Barresi, B. (2000).  Boston Kertesz, A. (2006).  Western Aphasia Battery-Revised. 


 Diagnostic Aphasia Examination (3rd ed.) .  Phila-Austin, TX: Pro-Ed. 


delphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. 


Lancioni, G. E., Singh, N. N., O’Reilly, M. F., Sigafoos, Gorno-Tempini, M. L,, Brambati, S. M., Ginex, V., Ogar, 


J., Tatulli, E., Rigante, V., . . . Minervini, M. (2010). 


J., Dronkers, N. F., Marcone, A., . . . Miller, B. L. (2008). 


Technology-aided verbal instructions to help per-


The logopenic/phonological variant of primary pro-


sons with mild to moderate Alzheimer’s disease 


gressive aphasia.  Neurology,  71, 1227–1234. 


perform daily activities.  Research in Developmental 


Hamilton, A., Ferm, U., Heemskerk, A-W., Twiston-


 Disabilities,  31, 1240–1250. 


Davies, R., Matheson, S.A.S., & Rae, D. (2012). Man-


Leyton, C. E., Hornberger, N. M., Mioshi, E., & Hodges, agement of speech, language and communication 


J. R. (2010). Application of Addenbrooke’s Cognitive 


difficulties in Huntington’s disease.  Neurodegenera-


Examination to diagnosis and monitoring of pro-


 tive Disease Management,  2(1), 67–77. 


gressive primary aphasia.  Dementia and Geriatric 


Hawley, K. S., Cherry, K. E., Boudreaus, E. O., & Jack-Cognitive Disorders,  29, 504–509. 


son, E. M. (2008). A comparison of adjusted spaced 


Lowenstein, D. A., Acevedo, A., Czaja, S. J., & Duara, R. 


retrieval versus a uniform expanded retrieval sched-


(2004). Cognitive rehabilitation of mildly impaired 


 226  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Alzheimer disease patients on cholinesterase inhibi-M., Varaja, R., & Kaste, M. (1998). Clinical determi-


tors.  American Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry,  12, nants of post stroke dementia.  Stroke,  29, 75–81. 


395–402. 


Reese, P. B. (2000).  The source for Alzheimer’s and 


Martini, A., Castiglione, A., Bovo, R., Vallesi, A., & dementia (p. 12). East Moline, IL: LinguaSystems. 


Gabelli, C. (2014). Aging, cognitive load, dementia 


Reisberg, B., Ferris, S. H., de Leon, M. J., & Crook, T. 


and hearing loss.  Audiology and Neurology,  1, 2–5. 


(1982). The Global Deterioration Scale for Assess-


https://doi.org/10.1159/000371593


ment of Primary Degenerative Dementia.  American 


Marttila, R. J., & Rinne, U. K. (1976). Dementia in Par-Journal of Psychiatry,  139, 1136–1139. 


kinson’s disease.  Acta Neurologica Scandanavica, 


Rinne, J. O., Portin, R., Ruottinen, H., Nurmi, E., Berg-


 54, 431–441. 


man, J., Haaparanta, M., & Solin, O. (2000). Cogni-


Mioshi, E., Dawson, K., Mitchell, J., Arnold, R., & 


tive impairment and the brain dopaminergic system 


Hodges, J. R. (2006). The Addenbrooke’s Cognitive 


in Parkinson’s disease: Fluorodopa positron emis-


Examination Revised (ACE-R): A brief cognitive test 


sion tomographic study.  Archives of Neurology,  57, battery for dementia screening.  International Jour-470–475. 


 nal of Geriatric Psychiatry,  21, 1078–1085. 


Ripich, D. N., Ziol, E., Fritsch, T., & Durand, E. J. (1999). 


Neary, D., Snowden, J. S., Northen, B., & Goulding, P. 


Training Alzheimer’s disease caregivers for success-


(1988). Dementia of frontal lobe type.  Journal of 


ful communication.  Clinical Gerontologist,  21(1), Neurosurgery and Psychology,  51, 353–361. 


37–56. 


Orsulic-Jeras, S., Schneider, N. M., & Camp, C. J. (2000). 


Squire, L. R. (1992). Priming and multiple memory sys-


Montessori-based activities for long-term care resi-


tems: Perceptual mechanisms of implicit memory. 


dents with dementia: Outcomes and implications for 


 Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience,  4, 244–256. 


geriatric rehabilitation.  Topics in Geriatric Rehabili-Warner, J. (2003). Current research on diagnosing 


 tation,  16, 78–91. 


dementia.  Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery and 


Pohjasvaara, T., Erkinjuntti, T., Ylikoski, R., Hietanen, Psychiatry,  74, 413–414. 





 Chapter 9


enCephALopAThy


Introduction


liver damage, kidney failure, or sequelae from alco-


holism are just a few that can result in an encepha-


lopathy. The presenting features of encephalopathy 


 Encephalopathy  is a nonspecific term that describes can be subtle with changes in a person’s personal-a disease or disorder affecting the brain, result-


ity, behavior, cognitive functioning, level of alertness, ing in an altered mental state, along with physical 


level of attentiveness, lethargy, and/or distractibility. 


symptoms. The National Institute of Neurological 


Dementia, seizures, or even coma can be observed 


Disorders and Stroke (NINDS; 2019) defines enceph-


in these individuals. This is certainly not a compre-


alopathy as a process that causes a change in mental 


hensive accounting of all possible etiologies leading 


state as a result of organ failure due to metabolic 


to encephalopathy, but those listed In Table 9–1 are 


dysfunction, mitochondrial dysfunction, brain tumor 


among the most frequently encountered in a clini-


with an increase of pressure in the skull, toxic expo-


cal setting. The demographic data indicates that the 


sure over time, chronic trauma, poor nutrition, or lack 


populations with the highest percentage of encepha-


of oxygen and blood to the brain. In the hospital, a 


lopathy are geriatric patients and approximately 5% 


clinician may encounter a person with an encepha-


to 15% are on medical-surgical floors, and 20% to 


lopathy due to a bacterial or viral infection, or the 


30% of individuals with encephalopathy are on surgi-


presence of prions. Conditions relating to anoxia, 


cal intensive care units (Shulman & Romano, 1999). 


Table 9–1.   examples of encephalopathies and their primary etiologies etiology


Causes (?)


Liver damage


hepatic encephalopathy


Kidney damage/failure


uremic encephalopathy


cardiorespiratory arrest


hypoxic/Anoxic encephalopathy


hypertension


hypertensive encephalopathy


hypotension


hypoxic encephalopathy


cushing’s syndrome


endocrine encephalopathy


Addison’s disease


endocrine encephalopathy


thyroid disease


endocrine encephalopathy


thiamine (vitamin B1) deficiency 


Wernicke’s encephalopathy





227


  228  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Characteristics


n  Over-the-counter cold preparations


n Antihistamines


n Antidepressants


Unfortunately, in the early stage of this process, the 


n Neuroleptics


patient lacks the insight and judgment to fully recog-


n  Anti-Parkinson’s medication


nize the symptoms. One of its most salient features 


n Narcotics


is confusion. Alterations in memory, cognition, and 


n  High-dose steroids


attentional abilities are also prevalent. Myoclonus or 


n Sedatives/tranquilizers


involuntary twitching and nystagmus (rapid invol-


n Amphetamines


untary eye movements), tremor, seizures, dementia, 


n Cocaine


and difficulty speaking and swallowing may also be 


n Hallucinogens


evident (National Institute of Neurological Disorders 


and Stroke, 2019). The patient may progress from 


Chronic alcoholism is responsible for many 


chronic confusion and hypersomnolence to delir-


hospital admissions. Therefore, the speech-language 


ium, and possibly even coma. If the patient becomes 


pathologist must become familiar with the clinical 


delirious, there may be visual delusions or hallucina-


and cognitive manifestations of alcohol-related ill-


tions that are often unpleasant in nature. 


ness. According to data from NIH for 2015, 15.1 


Organ disease is the etiology of metabolic 


million adults ages 18 and older had Alcohol Use 


encephalopathy. If the metabolic byproducts pro-


Disorder (AUD). This includes 9.8 million men and 


duced by the organs are not removed or properly 


5.3 million women (National Institute on Alcohol 


processed, an imbalance of magnesium, calcium, 


Abuse and Alcoholism, 2018). Unfortunately, there 


phosphorous, sodium, and glucose levels, may occur 


is also data on adolescents. The 2015 data from NIH 


and affect brain function. To determine the cause of 


indicated that 623,000 adolescents ages 12 to 17 


an encephalopathy, the blood and spinal fluid are 


had AUD, respectively, 298,000 males and 325,000 


examined, and electroencephalograms and imaging 


females (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and 


studies are conducted (National Institute of Neuro-


Alcoholism, 2018). 


logical Disorders and Stroke, 2019). 


The person admitted to the hospital with 


alcohol-related illness may be in a state of delir-


ium tremens (DT) and can present with perceptual 


drug and Alcohol Intoxication: 


hallucinations, anxiety, acute mental disorder, and 


Two Common etiologies 


sweating (diaphoresis). Typically, the patient will be 


for encephalopathy


placed on a thiamine IV (intravenous) drip before 


glucose is administered. These patients are often 


CDC data reported in August 2018 indicated that 


dehydrated and electrolyte-depleted, so IV fluids 


in 2016, 48.5 million Americans used illicit drugs 


are also ordered by the medical staff. Furthermore, 


or misused prescription drugs, and that 66% of the 


this type of patient may have low sodium (hypona-


deaths from drug overdose were due to prescription 


tremic), but if sodium is replaced too rapidly, there 


drugs or an opioid (Centers for Disease Control and 


can be central pontine destruction of the myelin 


Prevention, 2019). Drug intoxication causes an acute 


sheath (myelinolysis), which may result in changes 


change of mental status and can occur whenever 


to cranial nerve V (trigeminal), cranial nerve VI 


there is an excess of a drug in the bloodstream. This 


(abducens), cranial nerve VII (facial), and cranial 


can be due to addiction, recreational use, or even 


nerve VIII (acoustic). To prevent severe withdrawal 


iatrogenic causes (medically induced). It is typically 


symptoms and seizures, benzodiazepines (Valium 


associated with drugs that have an anticholinergic 


or Xanax) are usually given. The speech-language 


effect, that is, drugs that block the uptake of acetyl-


pathologist may be consulted to assess the patient’s 


choline at the synapse. The drugs most commonly 


cognitive-linguistic status once the patient is stabi-


associated with drug intoxication are:


lized and transferred to a medical floor. 








9. encephALopAthY  229


 Case Scenario:  Tommy


© scheriton


— dreamstime.com


 History & Physical (H & P): Tommy is a 57-year-old white male, admitted to the emergency department (ED) via EMS status post (s/p) being found down (breathing but unconscious at the scene) outside of a bar in his neighborhood. 


His BP was 86/34 with a HR of 130; intubated prophylactically by EMS; vital signs stabilized in ED; diagnosed with alcohol poisoning. 


 Past Medical History (PMH): Severe alcoholism; hypertension (HTN); Hepati-tis B and C; diabetes mellitus type 1; pancreatitis; multiple hospitalizations for alcohol-related illnesses and injuries; undocumented history of cocaine abuse (per wife’s report patient did use the drug “about two years ago, then went back to drinking heavily”). 


 Social History:  Former truck driver but hasn’t worked since the age of 50 due to revocation of his CDL (commercial driver’s license). Patient has five children, ages 21 to 35, all living nearby. Lives with wife in first-floor apartment, five steps to enter. Wife works full-time in a factory. Smokes two packs of cigarettes per day. 


The patient completed 11th grade. Patient perseverates on his experience as a soldier during the Vietnam War, according to wife. Patient is active in his VFW post. 


 Surgical History:  s/p cholecystectomy (removal of gall bladder) A Functional Analysis of Tommy


At the time of the assessment, Tommy’s ability to understand language was intact for grammatically simple utterances at the conversational level. Figure 9–1 shows Tommy’s Diagnostic Profile and Figure 9–2 shows his Target Assessment Snapshot. 


 


. 


 


s. 


ty are 





fe


. 


raphasias:


lic sa


Pa


None


e independently


s. 


ly spelled word


le to plan his daily 


Identifying Objects & 


Their Functions:


WFL


at times due to


; 


wing:


ry


tient refused to complete


e to liv


onality Characteristics:


Unab


Dra


rs


Pa


this task. 


r regular


r home and pub


Pe


ang


tangential 


Fluency:


 WFL


sa-


fo


fo


e; 


ver


vision. 


upted 


iate pauses


frequently 


ation. 


:


rm


Oral Spelling:


WFL 


er


 


fo


Current 


Impulsiv


dependency on other


. 


  


t. 


; inappropr


ex


standing Con


le depending on 


xity of in


-taking impaired; 


upts speak


riab


e. 


r ADL needs


oor topic maintenance; 


rn


Pragmatic Skills


P


output causes interr


discourse


tu


interr


ticulation errors


Under


tional Speech:


Va


comple


fo


ticulation:


l. 


Executive Functions:


Judgment and reasoning 


compromised making him unsaf


Requires 24-hour super


routin


Ar


No ar


ve


Written Spelling:


WFL 


ies out of cont


-


r 





Emotional Lability:


Cr


fo


s not 


ry


r his premorbid 


r 


fo


wa





fo


s. 


s. 


ite basic 


vice


r. 


Oral Reading: WFL  educational le


ent


intact 


; moder-


requires 


ev


 


ry


e; 


: 


standing Stories & 


ants and needs at the 


e discourse 


ragraphs:


ries composed of three 


. 


ist restraints 


le to engage in one-on


y:


Under


Pa


Moderately impaired 


sto


or more 


Frustration:


Agitated and 


aggressiv


wr


when out of bed 


(OOB) to chai


ab


narrativ


ing mnemonic de


vel; 


osod


le to generate a list of


.” 


Pr


WFL


Self-generated:


Ab


shopping items and wr


sentences


sational Ability


xpress his w





as 


Memory:


Procedural memo


ADLs including minor home 


repairs and self-care


ately impaired episodic memo


requir


ver


x, 


le to e


WFL. 


wn 


wspaper and understand 


ou people


Con


Ab


sentence le


one dialogue; 


focused due to tangential speech. 


as 


 


vel. 


k to 


s y


. 


wareness:


, it’


l-


ocal 


s nothing wrong 


r, 


. 


y bac


va


; anosagnosia; 


ve


wing comple


wa


ecution of one-step 


vel Comprehension:


ientation and 


oor


wn and unkno


we


vere v


Executing Commands:


ollo


Deficit A


Ex


commands w


F


multistep directions w


moderately impaired. 


P


“There’


with me


ho


xts; 


. 


xical Retrie


le to read the daily ne


Le


Naming:


WFL 


le to find his 


Intelligibility:


WFL in kno


conte


moderate-se


hoarseness noted. 


Sentence-le


Ab


its basic contents


Writing to Dictation:


WFL up to sentence le


eres 


vere 


vel. 


Visuospatial Skills:


Geographic disor


unab


his room independently


 


tommy


. 


g., 


tness interf


moderate-se


, e. 


Repetition 


Ability:


WFL


Yes/No Questions:


y words and 


. 


Vietnam. 


vel of aler


profile for 


 


vel Comprehension:


better when 


or concrete and personal 


ment at the abstract le


le; 


ar in 


wering 


rd-le


ying:


W


tness:


utomatic 


le to cop


riab


A


Speech:


WFL


Rate:


WFL


Ans


WFL f


yes/no questions; 


impair


Wo


WFL


Cop


Ab


sentences


Attention/Concentration:


Va


interested in topic


the 


Aler


Reduced le


with response accuracy


iagnostic 


 


.  d


h


y


–1


vioral


Speec


uditor


re 9


Language


A


Reading


Written


Expression


Expression


Cognition


Beha


Symptoms


u


Comprehension 


igF


230


 


9. encephALopAthY  231


1 – Normal


Atten tion


Mem  ory


2 – Mild-Moderate Impairment


3 – Moderate-Severe Impairment


4 – Severe-Profound Impairment


E


Impaired Cognitive Function


2


R


Language


W


1


1


C2


Executive    Functions


Visual   Spatial


Figure 9–2.   target Assessment snapshot for tommy. 


As sentence complexity increases, Tommy’s comprehension diminishes. This affects Tommy’s ability to communicate effectively and participate in many social activities. His expressive language is functional for his activities of daily living (ADL). His ability to create a cohesive narrative is reduced, which further complicates his difficulty with turn-taking and impulsive responding. Because of his impulsivity, Tommy often interrupts the speaker and/or inserts inappropriate pauses. For example, if Tommy wants to describe a special event he attended or relate information about his vacation experiences, the listener would need patience and have a basic understanding of his communication impairment because at the conversational level his speech becomes tangential. Tommy’s family and caregivers could use the training they received from the speech-language pathologist (SLP) during his hospital stay to alert listeners to Tommy’s expressive problems. Fortunately, Tommy demonstrates no lexical retrieval problems or paraphasias subsequent to his encephalopathy, which is a good prognosticator for his eventual community reentry. Tommy’s speech intelligibility is 100% in known and unknown contexts, and this is certainly to his benefit socially. 


Tommy’s procedural memory is intact for doing simple chores around the house and engaging in basic self-grooming tasks. However, his impaired episodic memory causes frustration, and the family will need to use memory logs and daily personal logs to optimize Tommy’s ability to function in his home and neighborhood environment. Tommy is not safe to be left alone at this time. His judgment and reasoning for home and public safety scenarios are compromised. 


As a consequence, Tommy needs 24-hour supervision at home until he begins to show progress in executive functioning. His anosagnosia also complicates the home and public safety situation. Tommy believes that he has no difficulty managing his daily routines and sees no need for close monitoring. 


In Tommy’s case, the SLP should recommend continued therapy at home once Tommy is discharged from the hospital. The SLP who treats Tommy at home 


  232  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch should continue to focus on deficit awareness, memory, family/counseling and education, and thought organization strategies. Independent reentry into the community is questionable for Tommy; however, he can build upon the strengths that he has to optimize the areas that are impaired. 


Critical Thinking/Learning Activity


n  What is the speech-language pathologist’s role in the evaluation of this type of patient? 


n  Based on Tommy’s PMH, is this an acute onset type, or a progressive type of encephalopathy, and what would be its etiology? 


n  How would this patient’s lack of deficit awareness affect his ability to return to the social fabric of his environment? 


n  What are the family counseling and education issues in this case? How would you address them? 


n  As an SLP, what characteristics would you look for to help differentiate the person with dementia and the person with a toxic-metabolic encephalopathy? 


n  What referrals would you make after evaluating this case? Why? 


Treatment Considerations


Tommy’s medical diagnosis is alcohol poisoning. Testing was conducted over three sessions (due to patient’s medical condition) and revealed moderate cognitive-linguistic deficits. Tommy’s receptive skills are within functional limits (WFL) for simple, concrete information at the time of testing. His difficulty with more complex information presented auditorily requires some environmental adjustments, for example, limiting the ambient noise and having only one person speak to him at a time. His family will need ongoing communication counseling while he is an inpatient and during his rehab stay because his impaired auditory comprehension will affect his social interactions with them and others. Furthermore, his lack of deficit awareness, should it persist and become chronic, will complicate matters. Tommy’s expressive language is functional for his ADL needs. 


His more significant impairments are in the cognitive areas of memory, thought organization, judgment, and reasoning. As a consequence, Tommy will need to be supervised at home for compliance with his medications, appointments, and daily activities, requiring organizational skills until he demonstrates the ability to manage these tasks independently and in sobriety. Drug and alcohol treatment is recommended for Tommy with counseling for his family. 


It is important to remember the role that ‘level of severity’ plays in the treatment planning and implementation for patients with encephalopathy. Furthermore, intervention is always provided within a functional/compensatory framework in these cases, and not one of remediation. The SLP should consider 


 


9. encephALopAthY  233


the following treatment approaches when planning therapy for people with encephalopathy of any of the above-mentioned types:


n  When working with this type of patient, it is important to provide family/caregiver counseling and education, which are critical elements to the rehabilitation of the patient with encephalopathy. The family/


caregivers need to understand the cause of the encephalopathy, the results of the cognitive-linguistic evaluation, the goals of therapeutic intervention, and how to communicate effectively with this type of patient. For example, it is best not to expect patients with encephalopathy to do things that they cannot understand or execute successfully, and calling attention to their deficits is often unproductive. Instead, instruct the family/caregivers to support the patient by implementing the compensatory strategies at home that were developed during the patient’s stay at the hospital or rehab facility. It is also helpful to provide them with written information to reinforce your objectives and eliminate any misinterpretation of your recommendations. 


n  Memory books and daily logs can be used to optimize the patient’s ability to perform the patient’s ADLs. The clinician facilitates the patient’s completion of the daily log and discusses the content. 


n  Developing activities to facilitate spatial and temporal orientation are also helpful with these patients. 


n  Cotreating with occupational therapy and/or therapeutic recreation personnel provides the ability to integrate aspects of the patient’s premorbid life into his or her life postinjury. Furthermore, it provides a context within which to optimize the patient’s social language and to incorporate the patient’s behavioral goals as well. Working in a group promotes generalization of skills developed during individual therapy. 


n  The clinician should consider consulting the Office of Vocational Rehabilitation (OVR) in their state to determine if the patient’s skill set posttherapy would support employment. The SLP can then work with the OVR representative to enhance and/or reinforce the skills needed for a particular job. 


Therapeutic goals Using A-FroM (Kagan, 2011; 


adapted to represent “living with encephalopathy.”)


Tommy’s communication goals will primarily focus on optimizing his ability to participate in therapy at the next level of care. While in acute care, his goals should address auditory comprehension, tangential speech, behavioral issues, deficit awareness, and memory impairment. Upon discharge to rehab, the clinician should recommend that therapy focus on his social pragmatics, receptive language skills, attention, and monitoring his tangential output. 


  234  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch 1.  Patient’s family will participate in counseling and education regarding his communication deficits. 


2.  Tommy will use contextual cues in the environment to orient himself to the date, time, and place. 


3.  Tommy will execute three-step directives with an auditory alerting signal and verbal prompts as needed. 


4.  Tommy will take his turn appropriately during conversations when prompted by a pause from the communication partner. 


5.  Tommy will use a written log to record his daily activities. 


6.  Tommy will reduce tangential speech during monologues and dialogues after a verbal prompt from the clinician to “stay on topic.” 


Figure 9–3 provides the A-FROM domains (Kagan et al., 2008) for Tommy that were used to formulate his therapeutic goals. 


Participation in life situations = 


Enjoys doing simple chores; engaging in 


self-care grooming; and reading the 


newspaper. 


Personal, identity, 


Communication 


attitudes & feelings = 


& language 


Living with 


Impulsive, angry; 


environment = 


encephalopathy


reduced alertness and 


Lives with wife and 


limited deficit 


has 5 grown children 


g


awareness; ca


n


ca  


living nearby; family 


become agitated and 


is engaged in his 


aggressive. 


treatment and care. 


Language & related impairments = 


Tangential speech; reduced auditory 


comprehension, compromised judgment 


and reasoning; poor episodic memory. 


Figure 9–3.   A-FroM model for tommy. 


 


9. encephALopAthY  235


references


National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. 


(2018).  Alcohol facts and statistics.  Retrieved from https://www.niaaa.nih.gov/alcohol-health/overview-Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (2019). 


alcohol-consumption/alcohol-facts-and-statistics


 Public Health Professionals Gateway: Alcohol and 


National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. 


 drug use. Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/pub 


(2019).  NINDS encephalopathy information page. 


lichealthgateway/didyouknow/topic/alcohol .html


Retrieved from https://www.ninds.nih.gov/Disor 


Kagan, A. (2011). A-FROM in action at the Aphasia 


ders/All-Disorders/Encephalopathy-Information-


Institute.  Seminars in Speech and Language, 32, 


Page#disorders-r1


216–228. 


Shulman, L. M., & Romano, J. G. (1999). Neurologic 


Kagan, A., Simmons-Mackie, N., Rowland, A., Huij-


emergencies. In W. J. Weiner & C. G. Goetz (Eds.), 


bregts, M., Shumway, E., McEwen, . . . Sharp, S. 


 Neurology for the non-neurologist (4th ed.). Phila-


(2008). Counting what counts: A framework for 


delphia, PA: Lippincott Williams and Wilkins. 


capturing real-life outcomes of aphasia intervention. 


 Aphasiology, 2(3), 258–280. 






 Chapter 10


seLeCTed TreATMenT 


progrAMs And ApproAChes


historical overview of efficacy 


Furthermore, Darley also proposed four “funda-


and evidence in the Treatment 


mental considerations” that one must address in 


of Acquired Language 


the design of any efficacy studies of treatment in 


disorders (ALd) in Adults


aphasia (Darley, 1972):


1.  The patients in a study of treatment in apha-


Any discussion regarding treatment efficacy in ac- 


sia must be aphasic. Darley was not convinced 


quired language disorders in adults, and specifically, 


that the descriptions of the aphasic syndromes 


aphasia rehabilitation, must begin with Darley’s 


existing at the time of his writing were accurate. 


(1972) paper on the topic. In his review, Darley found 


Furthermore, he admonished researchers to rec-


10 “reports” that were mostly descriptive analyses 


ognize and thoroughly describe any concomi-


and retrospective in nature. He concluded that the 


tant conditions, for example, apraxia of speech, 


data were not robust and that any clinician must be 


confusion, and so forth. 


cautious when making statements about treatment 


2.  There must be a clear differentiation between 


efficacy. Darley’s article is seminal, and the reader 


improvement based on therapeutic interven-


is directed to Wertz and Irwin’s thorough, clear, and 


tion and spontaneous recovery, which requires 


concise synopsis of it (Wertz & Irvin, 2001). 


control subjects who are not included in the 


Darley proposed three general questions that 


therapy program. This raises the ethical ques-


the clinician must ask and answer to determine if 


tion of denying treatment to those in need, but 


the treatment protocols used in aphasia rehabilita-


for a study to be rigorous and valid, this is the 


tion are effective (Darley, 1972, pp. 4–5):


one of the strongest experimental scenarios. 


3.  To monitor change, the clinician must gather 


1.  Does language rehabilitation accomplish mea-


quantitative data that are reliable and objective. 


surable gains in language function beyond what 


More interesting, in today’s context of function-


can be expected to occur as a result of sponta-


ality, is Darley’s interest in monitoring changes 


neous recovery? 


in the patient’s behavior and quality of life by 


2.  Are the language gains attributable to therapy 


measuring psychological and psychosocial status 


worth the necessary investment of time, effort, 


before and after therapy. He even suggested using 


and money? 


evoked potentials to make these measurements. 


3.  What are the relative degrees of effectiveness of 


4.  The clinician must clearly define and describe 


various modes of treatment of aphasia? 


the procedures followed, the rationale and the 





237


  238  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch materials employed, and that therapy must be 


3.  What are the relative degrees of effectiveness of 


delivered by “trained professionals” (Darley, 


various modes of treatment of aphasia? 


1972, p. 14). 


The current answer to this question is that there does 


As noted above, Darley considered that the data at 


not seem to be any significant differences between 


the time of report was sparse and unconvincing. 


the different treatment approaches used in aphasia. 


Returning to his three questions, the following infor-


Wertz et al. (1981) did report that there was a small 


mation has emerged:


but significant difference in the outcomes of patients 


who were treated individually versus those treated 


1.  Does language rehabilitation accomplish mea-


in a group setting. However, more recent work with 


surable gains in language function beyond what 


adults in groups within the LPAA context has shown 


can be expected to occur as a result of sponta-


efficacy (Elman & Bernstein-Ellis, 1999). 


neous recovery? 


It apparently does. Robey (1998) conducted a meta-


randomized Controlled Trials 


analysis of efficacy studies in aphasia treatment and 


(rCTs) and Aphasia Treatment


found that those patients who received treatment 


had better long-term outcomes than those who were 


Greener, Enderby, and Whurr (1999) stimulated vig-


not treated. This included patients at all stages of 


orous discussion among speech-language patholo-


their recovery. Robey’s work in this area is an impor-


gists when they concluded that aphasia treatment 


tant follow-up to Darley’s, and the clinician should 


had not been shown to be “clearly effective or 


become familiar with it. The reader is directed to 


clearly ineffective within a randomized controlled 


Robey (1994) and Robey (1998). 


trial (rCT)” (p. 1). In typical experiments, subjects 


are assigned to groups randomly. However, in the 


2.  Are the language gains attributable to therapy 


case of studies conducted with aphasic individuals, 


worth the necessary investment of time, effort, 


assignment to a group is determined by the pres-


and money? 


ence and type of aphasia and are often quasi-exper-


There are no current data to answer this question. 


imental (Douglas, Brown, & Barry, 2002). Robey 


Researchers, however, have addressed the issue of 


(1998) identified 479 studies and found 55 quasi 


cost versus benefit, but arrived at no firm conclu-


experiments in his meta-analysis. One of the inter-


sions (Brookshire, 1994; Shewan & Kertesz, 1984; 


esting findings Robey reported was that there was 


Wertz et al., 1986). How does one measure the cost 


a decrease in the number of RCTs conducted since 


of treatment versus non-treatment in a realistic way? 


the 1980s. Despite this, he did report the following 


The researchers above attempted to do so by calcu-


findings from his meta-analysis:


lating the cost per increase in scores on a language 


test or percentile rank. However, a truer cost/ben-


1.  The patients who were treated had better out-


efit analysis must measure changes in  functionality. 


comes than those who did not have treatment 


Is the patient now able to communicate effectively 


in all stages of recovery across time postonset. 


in a social context? Has the patient’s quality of life 


2.  The patient outcome was better when treatment 


improved because of language rehabilitation? Has 


was started in the acute phase of recovery. 


there been a reduction in the language deficits sub-


3.  Patients who received greater than 2 hours of 


sequent to language intervention? Wertz and Irwin 


therapy per week had better outcomes than 


(2001) suggest that perhaps we should be measuring 


those who received less. 


whether the patient’s improvement can be noticed 


4.  The most commonly reported form of treatment 


by a “naive observer” (p. 244). Obviously, this is a 


was individual. 


critical question requiring a serious answer from the 


5.  The largest gains were seen in those patients 


discipline as it has therapeutic and sociopolitical 


who were rated as severe and moderately severe. 


implications. 


No study in his analysis was designed to mea-


 


10.  seLected treAtMent progrAMs And ApproAches  239


sure treatment effects in the mildly impaired 


answered, and his “fundamental considerations” are 


patient population. 


powerfully relevant today. If we keep his mandate in 


6.  There were not enough studies examining the 


mind as we continue to critically examine our prac-


differential effects for the different types of apha-


tice, we believe that we will eventually arrive at the 


sia therapy, for example, Melodic Intonation 


desired outcome: finding the best cost/time effec-


Therapy versus Stimulation-Facilitation Therapy. 


tive approaches that hold the welfare of the patient 


paramount while providing functional benefits to 


Although the results on efficacy in this analysis 


the patient within his social milieu. 


were not as powerful as one would hope, the sup-


port for intervention at all levels of recovery is worth 


noting. Of the 12 studies reported on by Greener et 


Trends in Treatment for 


al. (1999), only one used an RCT design. It appears 


Acquired Language disorders


that this move away from RCTs is related to the 


emergence of the single-subject design. Robey, 


Schultz, Crawford, and Sinner (1999) conducted a 


Research in the treatment of adults with acquired lan-


meta-analysis of research on the efficacy of single-


guage disorders is advancing. Recent reviews have 


subject experiments in aphasia treatment. Unfor-


focused on three exciting avenues of intervention. 


tunately, only 12 out of 63 single-subject studies 


These interventions reflect advances in biological/ 


that Robey and his colleagues reported on provided 


pharmacologic knowledge, research about inten-


quantifiable results (Robey et al., 1999). The authors 


sity of treatment, and changes based on computer-


found this unsatisfactory concluding that single-sub-


assisted technologies that are cost-effective and time 


ject designs were not able to produce evidence that 


efficient. All of these point to a future of growth 


supported the effectiveness of any given treatment 


for us as clinicians and enhanced outcomes for our 


(Robey, 1998). 


patients. We address each of these briefly below. 


The obvious challenges for researchers inter-


ested in using RCTs in the study of people with 


aphasia or any brain disorder are the issues of 


Biological and pharmacologic 


patient variability, selection criteria, well-described 


Interventions


treatment protocols, objective and quantifiable 


results, and ethical considerations. As can be seen 


The advent of pharmacologic interventions to 


from the above discussion, RCTs in communica-


increase blood flow in the acute phase of stroke, 


tion sciences and disorders have not been forth-


combined with new discoveries about neuroplasti-


coming. If, however, the single-subject design is the 


city in the adult and the possibility of infusing the 


preferred methodology for testing the efficacy of 


brain with new tissue, all contribute to a future of 


treatment in communication sciences and disorders, 


great promise for the rehabilitation of the stroke 


then there needs to be rigorous protocols in place 


patient with a language disorder. Wineburgh and 


that allow for replication, multiple baselines, and the 


Small (2004) propose that the treatment of aphasia 


production of results for functional outcomes. That 


in the adult is at a crossroads where all three of 


is, future research into treatment efficacy must find a 


the above-mentioned variables can come together 


way to measure quality of life issues in people living 


to improve language rehabilitation outcomes. How-


with aphasia as well as changes in test results, at the 


ever, these biological aspects of intervention must 


end of the therapeutic course. Thus, it seems wise 


be supplemented with and complemented by behav-


for investigators using single-subject and any group 


ioral therapy. 


designs to include both quantitative and qualitative 


Research into the biology of language pro-


measures so that efficacy can be determined in func-


cesses continues. Looking toward the future, Wine-


tional and objective domains. 


burgh and Small (2004) believe that in cases where 


We believe that Darley (1972) “hit the nail on 


biological intervention occurs, for example, stem 


the head.” His questions have not been satisfactorily 


cell infusion or neuronal implantation, the speech-


 240  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch language pathologist will play a role in determin-Using neuroimaging to predict 


ing if his intervention is “harmful” or “beneficial” to 


recovery in people with Aphasia


the patient after the procedure. The clinician will 


need to understand if the speech-language interven-


Recovery from aphasia is difficult to predict. The 


tion  postprocedure  will facilitate recovery or inhibit method that clinicians and researchers have histori-it. This requires a shift in thinking from “effective” 


cally relied upon was to monitor changes in lan-


therapy to “beneficial” therapy (Wineburgh & Small, 


guage behavior because of therapeutic intervention 


2004). Our current practice does not include bio-


over the course of treatment. This is not difficult to 


logical intervention; however, with the emergence of 


measure but it does raise the question about how 


stem cell technology and a more refined knowledge 


to define  recovery. This is critical to any discussion of cortical neurophysiology poststroke, the speech-about predicting it. The methods of marking recov-


language pathologist can look forward to a very 


ery have been (1) degree of return to premorbid 


exciting future in which he or she will play a major 


language functions, (2) improvement on a formal 


role in the functional rehabilitation of the adult with 


language assessment when compared to the base-


an acquired language disorder. 


line, and/or (3) improvement of a specific language 


There is a long history of using pharmacologic 


task (Shuster, 2018). The interest in using neuroimag-


agents in the treatment of aphasia, starting with 


ing techniques among clinical researchers to identify 


Alexander Luria, the Soviet neurologist, who used 


biomarkers in patients which can be used to measure 


galantamine (an anticholinesterase agent) to improve 


is growing and speech-language pathologists should 


speech, language, cognitive, and motor functions 


familiarize themselves with the literature in this area. 


in people with stroke (Webb & Adler, 2008). Other 


A brief introduction to the most common neuroim-


drugs used in the treatment of aphasia include bro-


aging techniques currently under study to predict 


mocriptine (dopaminergic), amphetamines, cholin-


recovery from aphasia is discussed below. 


ergic agents, GABAergic agents, and serotoninergic 


The literature on neuroimaging as a tool for 


agents. Berthier (2005) reported that pharmacologic 


measuring recovery in aphasia is extensive with the 


agents that act on the catecholamine system, for 


great majority of the studies conducted since 2000, 


example, bromocriptine, have demonstrated vari-


primarily due to the emergence of new and more 


able results in the treatment of people with aphasia 


refined imaging technologies. The six most com-


in placebo-controlled studies. The findings on bro-


monly used neuroimaging techniques discussed in 


mocriptine, however, show very selective effective-


Shuster (2018) are:


ness. It appears that it is most effective in acute and 


chronic aphasia of the nonfluent type and in cases 


n   Structural magnetic resonance imaging 


of reduced verbal initiation, for example, transcor-


(MRI) (see Chapter 1 for a description of 


tical motor aphasia (Berthier, 2005). Donepezil, a 


this technique) can be used to develop a 


drug acting on the cholinergic system, showed more 


large database with information on site 


promise in chronic aphasias and was well tolerated 


of lesion, language function, and patient 


by the patients, and its efficacy was maintained over 


demographics. Individuals with new 


the long term (Berthier, 2005). Although Wineburgh 


strokes can be compared with those in the 


and Small (2004) report that pharmacotherapy “has 


database who share the same site of lesion 


never been shown to have any effectiveness” in 


and language characteristics. 


the treatment of aphasia, Webb and Adler (2008) 


n   Functional MRI (fMRI) (see Chapter 1 for 


point out that pharmacologic intervention seems 


a description of this technique) can be 


to be useful complements to traditional treatment 


used to examine the networks involved in 


approaches to aphasia. The controversy continues, 


general cognitive functions that support 


but as biochemical technology advances and the 


language networks in people with aphasia. 


pathophysiology of stroke continues to be refined, 


This information can then be used to more 


expect to see more agents coming onto the market 


accurately describe the brain networks 


for the treatment of aphasia. 


which produce aphasia and this data 


 


10.  seLected treAtMent progrAMs And ApproAches  241


can potentially be used for comparative 


activity. Neuroimaging techniques such 


purposes among patients. 


as fMRI, PET and SPECT are  indirect 


n   Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI)


measures of brain function because they 


n  DTI is a technique using MRI 


reflect metabolic activity in the brain. 


technology and it is used to measure 


MEG is highly precise with millisecond 


the speed of drifting water molecules 


resolution capability and it can map 


per unit time. That data can then be 


memory, motor, sensory, and language 


used to build images. This technique 


functions (Paggiaro et al., 2016). 


is a very effective one for monitoring 


n  MEG can be used for the neurophysio-


and evaluating white matter changes in 


logical assessment of individuals post 


the brain and identifying nerve bundles 


stroke and possibly inform therapeutic 


(Marques, Soares, Alves & Sousa, 2013; 


interventions when combined with 


Zhang, Wan, Wu, & Zhang, 2012)


standard forms of assessment for 


n   Diffusion tensor tractography (DTT)


people with aphasia. As a predictive 


n  DTT is a computational procedure. It 


tool, baseline data can be compared 


reconstructs major fiber bundles in 


to posttherapeutic data and decisions 


three-dimensional spaces and it is the 


regarding the next therapeutic steps. 


most visual method for presenting target 


MEG can also refine our understanding 


tracts from DTI data. This procedure has 


of the underlying mechanisms of 


been used to track the arcuate fasciculus 


recovery in people with aphasia. 


between Broca and Wernicke’s areas 


A drawback to MEG is that it is an 


(Zhang, Wan, Wu, & Zhang, 2012). 


expensive technology that requires a 


n   Electroencephalography (EEG)


multidisciplinary team. These two factors 


n  EEG is a means to track electrical 


make it less appealing to researchers 


activity in the brain and it is used to 


and institutions (Paggiaro et al., 2016). 


detect problems that may be associated 


with certain brain disorders. The data 


Shuster (2018) presents an argument in favor of 


obtained by an EEG are used to confirm 


adapting a list of questions developed by the Cen-


or rule out various conditions. As a 


ters for Disease Control (CDC) to guide the review 


biomarker for recovery, EEG can act as 


of genetic testing. This list consisted of 44 questions 


an index of the overall importance of 


addressing analytic validity, clinical validity, clini-


a particular area of the brain as well 


cal utility, and associated ethical, legal, and social 


as indicating which areas of the brain 


implications, giving the acronym ACCE. Shuster 


are coherent with other areas. For 


developed a version of this questionnaire for use 


example, if a patient’s neural oscillations 


consisting of 27 questions covering the same catego-


in Broca’s area are more coherent with 


ries as the ACCE but modified to match the purpose 


the rest of the cortex, then greater 


of neuroimaging (2018). Clinicians and researchers 


improvement would be assumed. There 


are urged to consider these questions to evaluate the 


are concerns over how the clinician 


neuroimaging techniques they choose to use to be 


should interpret this data so the use of 


a predictor of recovery from aphasia. 


EEG as a predictor of recovery remains 


under study (Shuster, 2018). 


n   Magnetoencephalography (MEG)


Intensity of Treatment


n  Magnetic fields are found whenever 


there is a current, such as an electrical 


Current fiscal constraints, imposed by the Centers 


wire or neurons. MEG measures brain 


for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and pri-


function  directly, by recording the 


vate insurers on rehabilitation services, restrict the 


magnetic fields generated by neuronal 


number of visits available to people with aphasia 


  242  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch for speech-language pathology services. Therefore, 


improve communication skills in people with apha-


it makes good clinical and fiscal sense to provide 


sia” (p. 852). Katz states that there are three roles 


the best service and to obtain the best outcome in 


that computers play in aphasia therapy:


the shortest amount of time. In a meta-analysis con-


ducted by Robey (1998), the findings indicated that 


1.  Computer-only treatment (COT) programs allow 


providing at least 2 hours of therapy per week facili-


the patient to practice independent of the clini-


tated gains in patients and recommended that 2 hours 


cian, family, and/or caregiver once the clinician 


per week should constitute a minimum of therapeutic 


has designed the treatment program for that 


services for people with aphasia. Bhogal, Teasell, and 


patient. This type of software program usually 


Speechley (2003) also conducted a meta-analysis of 


consists of drills. According to Jokel, Cupit, 


studies investigating aphasia therapy and found that 


Rochon, and Leonard (2009), MossTalk Words 


a significant treatment effect followed 8.8 hours of 


may be a beneficial and worthwhile therapy 


therapy per week for 11.2 weeks versus studies that 


approach for people with primary progressive 


provided only 2 hours of therapy per week for 22.9 


aphasia (PPA) without cognitive impairment. 


weeks. Bhogal et al. (2003) concluded that speech 


Using a multiple baseline design, two partici-


outcomes are clearly improved if an intensive sched-


pants improved their naming skills with this 


ule of therapy is used in patients with aphasia. 


program and were able to maintain these gains 


The Shirley Ryan Ability Lab, formerly known 


4 weeks after treatment ended. The patients 


as the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago (RIC), is 


were seen two to three times per week for ther-


one of several rehabilitation centers in the United 


apy. The first patient achieved 80% naming abil-


States offering intensive therapy for people with 


ity on three-word lists after only four sessions 


aphasia. The Shirley Ryan Ability Lab’s Intensive 


per list, whereas the second patient took 12 


Comprehensive Aphasia Therapy Program provides 


sessions for each of three-word lists to achieve 


daily, individual therapy for 2 hours per day; 1 hour 


80% accuracy. Although these therapeutic gains 


of computer-based treatment; 2 hours of group ther-


appear variable, the findings do indicate that 


apy targeting reading, writing, and conversational 


in patients with a neurodegenerative disease, 


skills; 1 hour of more specialized treatment with 


like PPA, they may still benefit from using Moss-


programs such as PACE or alternative and augmen-


Talk Words. 


tative communication (AAC) devices; and caregiver 


2.  Computer-assisted treatment (CAT) software 


workshops and support. This offers the patient a 


programs allow the patient and the clinician to 


total of approximately 30 hours of therapy per week 


work side-by-side. The role of the computer is 


for 4 weeks. These programs were developed at the 


to present the material, whereas the role of the 


RIC/Shirley Ryan’s Ability Lab; in order to be eli-


patient and clinician is a dynamic and inter-


gible, a patient must be at least 18 years old, medi-


active one using the software program as the 


cally stable, must be able to tolerate the intensity of 


therapy material. 


the therapy, and be either independent in mobility 


3.  Augmentative and alternative communication 


and self-care or be accompanied by a caregiver at all 


 (AAC) devices in aphasia therapy refer to com-


times. For more detailed information on the Shirley 


puters that can utilize icons, digitized speech, 


Ryan Ability Lab’s Intensive Comprehensive Aphasia 


and animation, and are used to facilitate func-


Therapy Program and how to enroll a patient, go to 


tional communication for the person with 


https://www.sralab.org/aphasiaintensive


aphasia. 


 Brain-Behavior Relationships


Computer-Assisted Technology 


and Treatment of Aphasia


Essentially, this model adheres to the philosophy 


that language rehabilitation can happen through 


Katz (2008) defines computerized aphasia treatment 


retraining and works on the premise that the patient 


as the “systematic use of computers and software to 


can regain lost skills through reorganizing the brain 


 


10.  seLected treAtMent progrAMs And ApproAches  243


functions that have been damaged. It is an example 


The crucial link in the therapeutic chain between 


of an impairment-based model of speech and lan-


the patient and any CAT, COT, or AAC methods is 


guage rehabilitation. 


the speech-language pathologist. It is the clinician 


who evaluates the patient, designs the treatment 


 Behavior Modification


objectives, determines which tasks are to be used 


to implement those objectives, and then trains the 


Operant conditioning achieves behavior modifica-


patient to use the device or program. That is, there is 


tion by systematically applying consequences after 


an “intelligent division of labor between computers 


a stimulus is given. The organism can learn a new 


and clinician,” and the boundaries are clear (Katz, 


behavior or lose an old one. Computer programs 



OceanofPDF.com

Acquired Language Disorders: A Case-Based Approach, Third Edition
    
    
    
    
  


  






















2008, p. 869). The fine nuances of human interaction 


can provide a stimulus and reinforce the patient for 


cannot be overstated, especially within the context 


a correct response through feedback. 


of a therapeutic interaction. CAT and COT technol-


ogy promises to broaden a clinician’s treatment 


 Educational Models


options and optimize patient progress. 


These programs can create  micro-worlds   within 


which the patient can operate and learn to solve 


AAC for Adults with ALd: Aphasia, 


problems associated with their daily communication 


ppA, TBI, and dementia


needs. The type of learning in this case is not didac-


tic but more inductive. The patient can discover the 


AAC systems are commonplace technologies in 


answers as opposed to being told the answers. Games 


speech-language pathology today. In the earli-


designed to facilitate rehabilitation of functional lan-


est stages of use, they were used primarily with 


guage skills certainly have a place in the repertoire 


pediatric populations, and more specifically, those 


of any clinician using CAT and COT methodology. 


children with severely disabling conditions, for 


Within any of these models, the clinician can 


example, cerebral palsy and autism, among others. 


decide to use stimulation, simulation, drills, or tuto-


The technology improved and so did the applicabil-


rials as treatment protocols because all four of these 


ity of these devices in the adult populations with 


are available and possible with computer software 


communication disorders, such as amyotrophic lat-


programs today (Katz, 2008). Lee and Cherney 


eral sclerosis (ALS). However, further refinement 


(2008) describe an interactive computer software 


of computer-based treatment saw the advent of 


program called AphasiaScripts, developed at the 


AAC systems being used with people with aphasia, 


Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago (RIC), now called 


apraxia, TBI, and early-mid stage dementias. 


the Shirley Ryan Ability Lab, which provides both 


Beukelman, Fager, Ball, and Dietz (2007) 


intensive therapy and computer-assisted approaches 


reviewed common issues associated with AAC 


to treatment. The program is designed to allow the 


devices in the adult population and chose four to 


patient to gain practice in conversation. In this 


review. They are:


approach, an avatar acts as the virtual clinician, that 


is, conversational partner. The authors describe the 


1.  AAC acceptance and use


program as user-friendly for the patient, but it still 


2.  AAC use patterns


requires the expertise of a speech-language patholo-


3.  Limitations of the AAC system


gist to facilitate the patient’s ability to interact with 4.  Future needs of adults who rely on AAC systems. 


the program. For example, the patient, with the 


assistance of the clinician, learns how to use cueing 


Beukelman et al. (2007) included many types 


to optimize performance, so that he/she can prac-


of neurological impairment in their discussion, but 


tice the conversations intensively without a clinician 


we restrict our discussion to the four that are cov-


present. AphasiaScripts incorporates both intensity 


ered in this book: aphasia, PPA, TBI, and dementia. 


of treatment and the use of computer-assisted tech-


AAC systems are broadly divided into two broad 


nology in order to optimize patient outcomes. 


categories: low-technology and high-technology. 


 244  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Low-technology AAC  systems such as communica-the question as to who generates the messages, that 


tion books, drawings, photography, written words, 


is, the patient or someone else, has been raised in the 


and phrases, have limited ability to convey intimate 


literature when a patient has a severe communica-


feelings, and transmit new information. These sys-


tion impairment (Lasker & Beukelman, 1999). 


tems work well in the acute-care setting where the 


People with a TBI demonstrated a higher level 


concerns are immediate and are health and medical 


of acceptance and use of AAC devices when com-


status-based.  High-technology AAC  systems, such as pared with people with aphasia (Beukelman et al., 


Lingraphica and Talking Screen, are available and 


2007). Those who did rely on AAC devices preferred 


in use with the adult neurological population. The 


the letter-by-letter spelling method for communicat-


software in Lingraphica allows the user to manipu-


ing messages. This is considered a “low-technology” 


late icons, some of which are animated, to build 


system, and 63% of those using it were still doing 


utterances. The communicative effectiveness of this 


so 3 years later. Their cognitive status was not sup-


device has been evaluated in many clinical research 


portive for message formulation using icons or other 


studies using standard pre-and posttest types of 


methods for encoding. 


assessments. However, the clinician must be aware 


Most clinicians will find that the low-technol-


that although the patient may  perform  well on the ogy options such as communication books, photos, 


device, that may not translate into  functional com-


icons, and memento-type materials are typically 


 petence  in the social setting. 


the preferred approach and the most functional 


There are two fiscally related problems that can 


with patients diagnosed with PPA. Beukelman et 


occur over the course of treatment. First, the insurer 


al. (2007) suggest that future research focus on 


sets limits on the duration of therapeutic intervention, 


the type of system, effectiveness, and the timing of 


and second, the patient’s performance can sometimes 


intervention with AAC devices. They also welcome 


plateau at a certain point in therapy, which does not 


case studies and “small reports” that investigate AAC 


present a sound case to the insurance companies for 


acceptance and use among this population. 


continued coverage (Fink, Brecher, Sobel, & Schwartz, The overarching goals of AAC use with the per-2005). As such, computer-based programs such as 


son with dementia are: (1) optimization of their cur-


MossTalk Words and Lingraphica that seek to extend 


rent functions and maintaining social engagement; 


the course of rehabilitation to the home setting (once 


(2) maintain communicative effectiveness for as long 


patient and caregivers are properly trained) seem like 


as possible; and (3) increase the quality of life for 


appropriate solutions to the above-noted problems. 


the patient and caregivers. Using AAC systems with 


Another reason to use computer-based programs dur-


this population is emerging and gaining popularity, 


ing intervention is to supplement traditional therapy 


especially with the introduction of iPads into the 


activities. Fink, Brecher, Schwartz, and Robey (2002) 


therapy room. Using low-technology methods (pic-


concluded that people with chronic aphasia who 


tures, mementos, memory books) and complement-


demonstrate significant phonologically based defi-


ing those with a higher-level technology like iPads, 


cits can derive benefit from a computerized cued-


can extend the patient’s social engagement. Beu-


naming methodology during treatment. 


kelman et al. (2007) suggest that focusing research 


The person with aphasia may not have the sym-


funding on technology that can enhance commu-


bolic functions necessary to support the use of an 


nication and involvement into the social fabric is 


AAC system, for example, recognizing words, icons, 


critically important. 


and assembling these into meaningful sentences. 


Therefore, their use of an AAC system can be restric-


tive or even non-functional. Beukelman et al. (2007) 


The Use of Applications 


report that people with severe, chronic aphasia do 


(Apps) in the rehabilitation 


not easily accept an AAC device. They feel that it may 


of the ALd patient


interfere with their ability to regain natural language. 


Their families also are hoping for the same, so they 


One of the primary issues is how to determine if 


also are not as willing to accept their use. Moreover, 


an app can be beneficial and which one(s) are best 


 


10.  seLected treAtMent progrAMs And ApproAches  245


for a specific patient (Holland, Weinberg, & Dittel-


4.  Is the patient’s living arrangement amenable to 


man, 2012). Because of the increasing availability 


app use? 


and types of apps, the clinician needs to develop a 


5.  Can the patient learn the basic device opera-


strategy for choosing the appropriate one that will 


tions such as tapping, pinching, and swiping? 


be user-friendly and client specific. The authors cat-


6.  Can the patient learn to use the app indepen-


egorized apps into four main groups. These include:


dently? One of the most-liked apps has been 


 Talking Tom,  as even the most impaired indi-


1. Apps used to improve speech and language 


viduals can get  Talking Tom  to mimic them. 


through practice drill and exercises


7.  Can the patient use e-mail with assistance to 


2.  Apps to help communicate messages to others 


initiate usage with a device? 


in spoken, written, or visual form such as AAC


8.  Can the patient benefit from using an app as 


3.  Apps to help a person with aphasia track infor-


a training tool to help reestablish language 


mation including medical needs


skills?  Tactus Therapy Solutions  has many apps 


4.  Apps with built-in features, such as images, can 


geared to various severity levels.  Lingraphica 


be helpful to people with aphasia. 


 Small Talk  focuses on language therapy for 


ALD providing videos and captions for sounds, 


Searching an app site (such as  iTunes) on a 


words, and phrases.  Locabulary Lite  is designed 


regular basis can provide clinicians with informa-


for demonstrations to determine if a patient 


tion on the latest available. Holland et al. (2012) 


can use it to communicate in settings such as 


suggest searching under category titles for  educa-


McDonald’s and Starbucks. In addition, the apps 


 tion, medical, productivity, hanging with friends, 


 iConverse, Pictello,  or  Visually Assisted Speech and  games.  The authors found that a buy-in is often Technology   can help patients develop scripts 


needed from patients and their families. Many of the 


to produce their own messages. In addition to 


patients that we treat with an ALD are not familiar 


these,  Aphasia Corner  provides an app consist-


or comfortable with this type of technology. McCall 


ing of National Public Radio stories that can be 


(2012) found the following four steps helpful in pro-


regulated for speed and includes written text as 


moting a patient’s success with technology. The pro-


information is spoken. 


cess includes: (1) determining the patient’s strongest 


communication modality; (2) matching the patient’s 


In helping to decide if an app will be successful for 


preferences with his or her strengths; (3) determin-


patients with an ALD to achieve their goals, Holland 


ing the patient’s personal goals for using technol-


et al. (2012) present three criteria: (1) families and 


ogy; and (4) choosing and training the patient to 


friends or staff must be involved; (2) patients must 


use technologies to help achieve personal goals. 


always carry their devices with them to use regu-


Therefore, ensuring that the patient is comfortable 


larly; and (3) a specific amount of time and com-


with using devices such as iPads or iTouches is an 


mitment must be made to practice. The authors also 


important element to the treatment plan. Also, the 


present a table with 30 apps worth investigating, 


patient and/or caregivers may need access to Wi-Fi 


and Sutton (2012), writing about mobile devices that 


in order to take advantage of apps. Another con-


offer new treatments for people with ALD, presents 


cern is the issue of portability and ability to use 


more than 25 apps worthy of consideration. 


various keyboards. Patients and significant others 


often benefit from demonstrations of the app. As 


a consequence, there are several questions to help 


selected Treatment programs for 


determine possible app buy-in and use. 


Acquired Language disorders


1.  Is the client a candidate for using an app? 


A Treatment Sequence for Phonological 


2.  Will the patient benefit from an app? 


Alexia/Agraphia


3.  How do you expect to see your client use the 


app? 


Anagram, Copy, and Recall Therapy (ACRT)


 246  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Concurrent Treatment for Reading and 


are usually more difficult than for nonwords. The 


Spelling in Aphasia: (CART and ORT)


ability to segment sounds and identify sound-sym-


bol correspondence becomes impaired. Therefore, 


Constraint-Induced Language Therapy (CILT)


treating alexia and agraphia involves strengthen-


Conversational Coaching


ing phonological processing and the orthographic 


representation of words. Beeson, Rising, Kim, and 


Divergent Word Retrieval


Rapcsak (2010) reported on two people with apha-


Life Participation Approach to Aphasia 


sia and written language and phonological process-


(LPAA)


ing deficits who received treatment that resulted in 


improved reading and spelling. Treatment included 


Lingraphica


sublexical skills training for phonological aware-


Mapping Therapy


ness, segmentation, sound blending, and manipula-


tion of syllables in words and nonwords, thereby 


Melodic Intonation Therapy (MIT)


strengthening the link between sounds and letters. 


MossTalk Words


Therapy targeted 20 consonants in the initial posi-


tion of words and 12 vowels in the medial position. 


Narrative Story Cards


Participants wrote a letter that corresponded to a 


Nonsymbolic Movements for Activation of 


spoken sound and said the sound that corresponded 


Intention (NMAI)


to the visually presented letter. Four tasks were pro-


vided during treatment to retrain phoneme-graph-


Normal Sentence Production


eme correspondence for consonants. The following 


Oral Reading for Language in Aphasia with 


example explains the treatment sequence:


Virtual Therapist (ORLA-VT)


 Task Response


Promoting Aphasics’ Communicative 


Effectiveness (PACE)


1.  Write the letter that makes the sound/p/. 


Response Elaboration Training (RET)


2.  Think of a key word for /p/ and try to write that 


word “pig.” 


Schuell’s Stimulation Approach


3.  Look at this picture. Your key word for /p/ is 


Semantic Feature Analysis (SFA)


pig. Write pig and then underline the /p/ sound 


in the word pig. 


Sentence Production Program for Aphasia 


4.  Your key word is pig. Copy pig and underline 


(SPPA)


the /p/ in the word pig. 


SentenceShaper Speech Entrainment


Vowel training followed the same process, with 


Treatment of Underlying Forms (TUF)


the exception that some vowel sounds have more 


Verb Network Strengthening Treatment 


than one corresponding letter. Treatment involved 


(VNeST)


segmenting nonwords into their sounds and con-


verting speech sounds to letters for written words. 


Visual Action Therapy (VAT)


Syllable segmentation, writing, and saying the com-


ponent sounds in each syllable were required. Spell-


ing was supported by blending sounds into whole 


A Treatment sequence for 


words. To help with spelling problems, treatment 


phonological Alexia/Agraphia


included three basic steps: (1) generate possible 


spelling using phonological knowledge; (2) evalu-


Phonological alexia and agraphia often result from 


ate spelling via orthographic knowledge of letters; 


damage to the left perisylvian cortex. For individuals 


and (3) compensate for spelling difficulties via tech-


with this damage, reading and spelling of real words 


nology to check and correct errors. Over 3 months 


 


10.  seLected treAtMent progrAMs And ApproAches  247


of therapy, both participants improved their pho-


c.  Graphemic Output Buffer:  The specific “spa-


nological and written language skills and indicated 


tially ordered lettered strings” (Helm-Esta-


that they were satisfied with treatment outcomes. 


brooks & Albert, 2004, p. 293) that accompany 


each learned word are stored in the graphe-


mic output buffer, which is held in short-term 


Anagram, Copy, and recall 


memory. 


Therapy (ACrT)


d.  Allographic Conversion: Learned spellings 


are converted to actual, physical letter forms. 


 Background


e.  Graphomotor Program:  Finally, target words 


are physically written, “fish.” This is the last 


ACRT, originally known as Anagram and Copy Treat-


step to be activated (Helm-Estabrooks & 


ment (ACT), trains the written modality as a com-


Albert, 2004, p. 293). 


pensatory strategy for communicating basic wants 


and needs (Beeson, Hirsch, & Rewega, 2002). The 


 Methodology


primary focus is the accurate spelling of single 


words for effective and functional communication. 


ACRT is best suited for patients with intact semantic, 


This therapy is appropriate for two groups of indi-


visual recognition, and graphomotor skills, but with 


viduals: (1) those with poor verbal output who have 


remaining deficits in written naming skills. Grapho-


severe aphasia and must rely on written expressions 


motor skills are defined as the process of converting 


to communicate; and (2) those with good verbal out-


graphemes to letters and then writing those letters 


put, who have mild aphasia with underlying spelling 


(Helm-Estabrooks & Albert, 2004). The following 


deficits. Such deficits may interfere with the activi-


pretests are given to determine appropriate candi-


ties of daily living, such as emailing, texting, creating dates (Helm-Estabrooks & Albert, 2004). 


to-do lists, and taking telephone messages. For both 


groups of patients, individual words are trained. For 


Test of graphomotor skills.   Ask patient to copy 


the purposes of functional communication, it is rec-


the following sentence:


ommended that the chosen words in ACRT be spe-


cific and relevant to the patient. 


The quick brown fox jumps over the  


The authors used a cuing hierarchy that involved 


lazy dog. 


anagram letters and the act of copying single words 


repeatedly. It’s based on “a cognitive model of sin-


Test of single-word reading Comprehension.  


gle word writing referred to as the lexical-semantic 


Can the patient match a printed word to the visual 


route” (Helm-Estabrooks & Albert, 2004), which is 


representation of that word?  The Boston Diagnostic 


explained below. 


 Aphasia Examination (BDAE) (Goodglass & Kaplan, 1983) contains a reading subtest with a picture-word 


The process of writing single words


matching task. It is recommended that the patient 


scores with at least 75% accuracy. 


1. First, a person perceives and recognizes the 


visual stimulus. For example, the image of a 


Test of written Confrontation naming.  Helm-


“fish” is shown. The following systems and tasks 


Estabrooks and Albert (2004) suggest that specific 


are then engaged. 


pictures from the  Boston Naming Test (BNT; Kaplan, a.  Semantic System:  Within a person’s semantic 


Goodglass, & Weintraub, 2000) be used to determine 


system, there exists a conceptual representa-


single-word spelling ability. These pictures are as 


tion of the word “fish.” For example,  edible, 


follows:


 fins, salt water, swims, gills. 


b.  Graphemic Output Lexicon:  People store the 


1. bed


learned ability to spell in long-term storage, 


2. tree


also known as the graphemic output lexicon. 


3. pencil


 248  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch 4. house


to Helm-Estabrooks and Albert (2004) and follows 


5. comb


below:


6. saw


7. broom


0 = Totally incorrect, illegible, all letters 


8. camel


wrong, substitution of a drawing


9. bench


1 = Less than half correct or all right letters 


10. dart


in the wrong order


11. canoe


12. wreath


2 = Half correct, or half letters in wrong 


13. igloo


order


14. cactus


3 = If more than half is correct, but not fully 


15. pyramid


correct, or if two letters are 


reversed or letters are added to correct a 


The clinician is instructed to present one picture 


word, score as:


at a time and have the patient write the name of 


the picture on an unlined 8.5 × 11 piece of paper, 


4 = Self-corrected


using a black marker. The patient should demon-


5 = Fully correct on first attempt


strate some understanding of the word form, that 


is, at least some letter forms should be present in 


The authors provide a formula for determining the 


the written production. For example, if a client is 


patient’s percentage correct and hence a relative 


presented with the word “bench,” and he or she is 


level of severity: 15 (total words) × 5 (highest pos-


able to write “be” or “ben,” this patient would be an 


sible score) = 75 possible points. To determine the 


appropriate candidate. These 15 words also may be 


percentage correct, follow these steps:


used post-treatment to demonstrate improvement. 


Therefore, these words should not be used in the 


Example:  A patient earns a total of 46 points out of 


course of treatment. 


75: 46/75 = .61 × 100 = 61% of possible points. The 


following scoring criteria are from Helm-Estabrooks 


Test of visual Memory.     Helm-Estabrooks and and Albert (2004):


Albert (2004) suggest the following two subtests to 


assess visual memory:


1.  Do not penalize for a combination of uppercase 


and lowercase letters (e.g., bED). 


1.  The Visual Memory Span subtest of the  Wechsler 


2.  For scoring spelling of words written:


 Memory Scale–3rd edition (Wechsler, 1997). 


a.  When the target word contains an odd num-


2.  The Design Memory subtest of the  Cognitive-


ber of letters, a partial score is either 3 or 1, 


 Linguistic Quick Test (CLQT); (Helm-Estabrooks, 


but not a score of 2 (half-correct). 


2001). 


b.  When a letter or two are added before or 


after the correct word, give 3 points. 


scoring spelling responses from the 15-word 


Example: “hos” for house = 3 points


List (from the written Confrontation nam-


“hoh” for house = 1 point “broomer” for 


ing subtest).     Helm-Estabrooks and Albert (2004) broom = 3 points


developed a 0 to 5 scoring system. This ensures 


c.  When the phonetic spelling is used, score as 


that if a patient partially spells a word right, he 


usual and describe the phonetic spelling. 


or she earns credit. This system is also appropriate 


Example:  “kom” for comb = 3 points (note 


for measuring change over the therapeutic course. 


use of phonetic spelling)


Some patients will make several attempts at the 


d.  When an acceptable semantic substitute is 


correct spelling of a word. Only count their final 


used, score it as a correct word. 


attempt when scoring. The scoring system is unique 


Example: “home” for house = 5 points


 


10.  seLected treAtMent progrAMs And ApproAches  249


e.  Always score nonsense words as 0. 


a.  Together with family members or caretak-


Example: “meem” for igloo = 0 points


ers, look at the patient’s communication in 


the form of written notes, grocery lists, to-do 


 How to Prepare for an ACRT Session


lists, e-mails, and conversational exchanges. 


Before beginning treatment using ACRT, the clini-


cian should formulate a list of words that will prove 


Concurrent Treatment for reading 


most beneficial to the patient after discussing the 


and spelling in Aphasia:   Oral 


procedures of this program with the patient’s care-


 Reading Treatment (orT) and  Copy 


givers. This list may include objects, actions, or 


 and Recall Treatment (CArT)


feelings relevant to the patient’s life and activities 


of daily living (ADL) needs. Check with the family 


People with aphasia who have spoken, and writ-


periodically to verify that these target words remain 


ten language deficits generally have left perisylvian 


important, or if any new ones should be added to 


damage (Benson & Ardilia, 1996). In these individu-


the list of treatment words. 


als, reading is often better preserved than writing. 


ACRT follows a hierarchy, beginning with words 


Orjada and Beeson (2005) adapted  Oral Reading 


that are monosyllabic, regularly spelled, and easily 


 for Language in Aphasia (ORLA) (Cherney, 1995) 


visualized. When these are mastered, the clinician 


calling it  Oral Reading Treatment (ORT). Like ORLA, may gradually add more complex and irregularly 


ORT is a clinician-guided treatment approach for 


spelled words. Once the target word list has been 


oral reading. Reading accuracy and comprehension 


compiled and organized, these words may be pic-


can improve along with overall language skills using 


torially represented through simple line drawings, 


ORT in combination with  Copy and Recall Treatment 


personal photographs, and/or photographs clipped 


(CART) (Beeson, Rising, & Volk, 2003), Orjada and 


form magazines and newspapers. 


Beeson (2005) discussed retraining orthographic 


representations for targeted words with repeated 


 Measuring Patient Response 


copying and recall. Treating phonological awareness 


 and Improvement with ACRT


and sound-letter correspondence improved spelling, 


whereas scripted language improved connected dis-


The guidelines below will help the clinician deter-


course. ORT and CART were provided over 19 total 


mine if ACRT is effective for the patient:


treatment sessions to one individual with aphasia. 


The authors hypothesized that by combining these 


1.  ACRT is directly responsible for the patient’s 


two approaches, there would be an increase in read-


improvement in correctly spelling target words. 


ing accuracy rate and spelling skills with a possible 


2. A multiple baseline design may be used to 


positive influence on spoken language performance. 


determine if improvement is a direct result of 


The patient assisted in developing personally rel-


ACRT. (Refer to Beeson, 1999; Beason et al., 


evant scripts that were paired with pictures and 


2002; and Helm-Estabrooks & Albert, 2004 for 


recorded for practice. The patient and clinician 


more details.)


engaged in choral reading followed by the patient 


3.  “The effects of treatment are generalizing to the 


reading aloud by himself, which was at a slower than 


pre-and posttest BNT items” (Helm-Estabrooks 


normal rate. Targeted words were also highlighted 


& Albert, 2004, p. 299). 


in the text to make them more salient for the patient. 


a.  Administer the 15 items pictured from the 


As a result, reading rate and accuracy improved and 


BNT to the patient after every 6 sessions of 


was maintained for the scripts. Written spelling also 


ACRT and at the end of treatment. Use the 0 


improved with repetition. As a result of the ORT and 


to 5 scoring system. 


CART concurrent treatment for reading and spell-


4.  The patient is improving their writing skills for 


ing, the patient’s verbal output also improved. After 


functional communication purposes. 


re-administration with the  Western Aphasia Battery 


  250  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch (WAB) (Kertesz, 2006), clinically significant expres-Constraint-Induced 


sive language gains were reported. For example, 


Language Therapy (CILT)


mean length of utterance (MLU) increased from 3.62 


to 7.4 words on picture description tasks and to 9.47 


 Background


during conversation. ORT and CART are composed 


of the following procedures. 


Constraint-induced therapy was developed from ani-


mal research. Its use in the treatment of people with 


 Oral Reading Treatment (ORT)


aphasia is modeled after treatment used in physi-


cal therapy (Cherney, Patterson, Raymer, Frymark, 


ORT uses printed text for each sentence. These sen-


& Schooling, 2008). This technique was introduced 


tences are recorded in a talking photo album, and 


in 2001 and is primarily used with patients with 


these sentences are used to improve reading accu-


nonfluent aphasia (Cherney et al., 2008). It is based 


racy. The protocol is below:


on the principles of brain plasticity, massed practice, 


constraint induction, and behavioral relevance (Pul-


1.  The clinician reads each sentence of the script, 


vermuller et al., 2001). The mechanism responsible 


pointing to every word. 


for the success of this therapy is currently unknown. 


2.  The clinician and the client read the same sen-


However, the mechanism seems to be related to the 


tence in unison while the clinician points to 


way motor constraint overcomes learned nonuse 


each word. 


(Pulvermuller et al., 2001). The basic principle of 


3.  The client reads the sentence alone while point-


this approach is forcing the use of spoken language 


ing to each word. 


with massed practice to generate verbal responses 


4.  The clinician calls attention to any errors the 


that are shaped into longer utterances. Treatment 


client makes. 


generally involves up to 3 hours per day, 5 days per 


5.  The client then self-corrects. 


week. With this extensive amount of treatment, the 


6.  The client repeats the oral reading until they 


brain is thought to adapt and compensate for the 


reach 100% accuracy. 


injury or damage. 


7.  ORT Home Program


a.  Every day the client uses the talking pictures 


 Research Findings on CILT


photo album in lieu of the clinician. 


b. The client plays the recording and reads 


An overall increase in spoken nouns and increased 


along silently. 


informativeness was found for all three post-CILT 


c.  The client then reads in unison with the 


cases in a study by Kirmess and Lind (2011). The 


recorded sentence. 


authors found a generalization effect of greater word 


d.  The client then reads the sentence without 


production in connected speech when the pre-post 


the support of the audio recording. 


language analysis was transcribed from dialogical 


interviews of patients in the study. CILT appears 


 Copy and Recall Treatment (CART)


to be a promising treatment technique in helping 


people with nonfluent aphasia use verbal language 


1.  The client selects 5 to 10 words from each of 


following a stroke. 


their three scripts. 


There have been positive effects from this treat-


2. The client then makes a list of the selected 


ment approach particularly due to its high intensity. 


words. 


Unlike traditional approaches in aphasia therapy that 


3.  The client then copies each target word 3 to 5 


focus on compensatory strategies such as drawing 


times, until they can recall it from memory. 


and writing, this approach requires only attempts at 


4.  The client then writes the word from memory 


verbal communication, which is the  induced con-


and checks the spelling, correcting any errors. 


 straint.  In this approach, the therapist presents the 5.  The procedure is repeated for each of the tar-patient with tasks that require him or her to name 


geted words. 


objects pictured on cards, such as a card picturing 


 


10.  seLected treAtMent progrAMs And ApproAches  251


a muffin. The patient is required to name the item 


who used CILT provided positive feedback about 


using the correct noun, and as they progress, the 


their outcomes. Another encouraging feature is that 


clinician adds a modifier, for example, two muffins. 


the recommended hierarchy of language is based 


As they became more advanced, they must put that 


on relevance to the patient (Kirmess & Maher, 


phrase into a syntactic frame, using the name of the 


2010). Although the patient’s interest plays a part 


person they are addressing, for example, “Mrs. Jones, 


in the choice of words, other factors that appear to 


can I please have two muffins?” Research indicates 


impact the outcomes of CILT include the patient’s 


that patients who received CILT had a 30% increase 


age, physical activity, and motivation. In general, 


in the amount of daily verbal communication used, 


the hierarchy of CILT stimuli involves four levels of 


as reported on their Communication Activity Logs 


increasing complexity:


(CAL) (Pulvermuller et al., 2001). It is speculated 


that there may be cortical reorganization from 


1.  Single word naming and accurately answering 


massed practice that promotes language rehabilita-


yes or no questions


tion. Cherney et al. (2008) found that regardless of 


2.  Addressing another person by name and using 


treatment type, more treatment appears to produce 


an interrogative phrase while naming the object 


better results when delivered over a restricted time 


presented


period. Regardless of the treatment approach used, 


3.  Adding appropriate adjectives and/or adverbs 


clinicians must make treatment decisions based 


to the verbal output


on clinical experience, the patient’s individualized 


4. Engaging in all aspects previously mastered 


needs, and sound evidence of treatment efficacy. 


including appropriate descriptors for quantity 


Systematic reviews found that CILT had a posi-


and/or amount


tive effect on individuals with nonfluent aphasia. 


The high intensity of treatment was considered a 


 Cueing Strategies


major benefit. Using CILT, gains were maintained 


over a period of 1 to 3 months with language 


Linebaugh, Pryor, and Margulies (1983) stated that 


increases maintained at 6-month follow-up (Cherney 


there are three basic principles of cueing hierarchies:


et al., 2008). Forcing spoken language was thought 


to be a major factor in the treatment’s success. 


n  Cues that elicit a response from the patient 


Meinzer, Djundja, Barthel, Elbert, and Rockstroh 


with the least amount of help from the 


(2005) also found improvements in the amount of 


clinician are the most desirable. They are 


words, naming, repetition ability, and overall quality 


the least powerful in the hierarchy. 


of communication. 


n  Cues should become less powerful as 


therapy continues. 


 Program Features


n  The patient must be trained to use self-


cueing or  internal facilitators. 


Because CILT requires forced use of verbal lan-


guage, all responses during treatment must be spo-


All cueing hierarchies must be client-specific. 


ken. Gestures or other nonverbal communication 


The goal is that the patient will require less power-


are not permitted. Massed practice and the high 


ful cues and will have learned to use that cue in 


intensity of treatment also add to its effectiveness. 


response to other stimulus categories. For example, 


CILT therapy is usually implemented 6 to 12 months 


the client will self-cue with the first sound of a word 


after onset, once the aphasia is considered chronic 


across all semantic categories, not just the category 


in nature. However, CILT has also been found to be 


used to train the technique in therapy. The clini-


effective in improving naming and sentence con-


cian can use semantic cueing to facilitate the client’s 


struction with acute stroke patients (1 to 2 months 


word retrieval, for example, by providing a descrip-


poststroke) (Kirmess & Maher, 2010). 


tive cue for a word, or a sentence completion cue. 


Using CILT, the goal is to increase the quan-


Those cues are less powerful than having the client 


tity and quality of spoken language and patients 


imitate the desired word. Therefore, they are higher 


  252  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch up in the cueing hierarchy. One can also provide 


5.  Motivate the patient to perform the act in the 


phonological cues, starting with the least powerful 


community. 


cue — providing a target word and phonological foils 


6.  Discuss and evaluate the patient’s outcome (e.g., 


— proceeding to the most powerful cue, imitation. 


were the patient’s goals met, did the patient uti-


In between the two, one can cue the patient using 


lize the communication strategies worked on in  


a nonsense rhyming word, or an articulatory cue. 


therapy, and were there any unanticipated issues 


Linebaugh and Lehner (1977) presented a modified 


that occurred during the communication act that 


cueing hierarchy by mixing types of cues. For exam-


can be targeted in future treatment sessions). 


ple, they suggested giving the client the written rep-


resentation of the first letter of the work along with 


 Results


an articulatory cue for the first phoneme. He also 


added gestural prompting to the hierarchy. 


Hopper, Holland, and Rewega (2002) used con-


versational coaching to enhance the conversations 


between men with chronic severe and very severe 


Conversational Coaching


Broca’s aphasia and their spouses. Two couples 


participated in the study. A multiple-baseline sin-


Conversational coaching is a functional and prag-


gle-subject design across participants was used for 


matic approach to aphasia therapy. It was introduced 


experimental control. During baseline sessions, the 


in the late 1980’s by Audrey Holland and has con-


participants with aphasia watched short (2 to 3 min-


tinued to enjoy widespread use in clinical practice 


ute in length) video segments from a “real TV” pro-


(Holland, 1988). The approach involves the speech-


gram and then discussed the video clips with their 


language pathologists acting as a “coach” to help the 


spouses, who were naïve to the content of the vid-


patient develop communication skills and strategies 


eos. After the baseline period was completed, each 


for meeting a specific communication need, such 


couple reviewed video recordings of their interac-


as, purchasing a car part from an auto parts store 


tions from the baseline sessions and identified strat-


or telling a joke at a cocktail party. A key aspect 


egies that they could use to improve the quality of 


of conversational coaching is that communication 


their conversations. During treatment sessions, the 


goals and strategies are decided on by the patient. 


clinician sat next to the couple while they discussed 


additional video segments from the TV program and 


 Methodology


provided them with feedback pertaining to their 


communication effectiveness and use of communi-


Simmons-Mackie (2008) suggests the following steps 


cation strategies. The primary dependent measure in 


for providing conversational coaching:


the study was the number of main concepts (Nicho-


las & Brookshire, 1995) successfully communicated 


1. Identify a personally relevant and functional 


about the video clips. Participants received a maxi-


conversational objective or scenario to target in 


mum of 10 treatment sessions; information about 


treatment. 


the length and frequency of the treatment session 


2.  Determine what resources the patient needs to 


was not provided. Both spouses demonstrated an 


be successful, for example, pictures or written 


increase in the quantity of main concepts expressed 


words. 


in conversations about the videos at three months 


3.  Develop a script related to the communication 


posttreatment. Moreover, one of the participants 


scenario for the patient to rehearse in therapy 


with aphasia exhibited a percentile increase of 20% 


and at home. 


and an increase in stanine score from 4 to 5 on the 


4.  Have the patient practice the communication 


CADL from pre- to posttreatment. Social validation 


scenario in the clinic while the SLP provides 


was also evaluated in the study. Sixteen undergradu-


feedback on the effectiveness of the patient’s 


ates were recruited to observe the pre-and posttreat-


communication and makes suggestions on how 


ment video clips of the couples’ conversations about 


the patient could convey the information better. 


the videos. The students were naïve to the content of 


 


10.  seLected treAtMent progrAMs And ApproAches  253


the videos. For the most part, they were able to infer 


(Chapey, Rogrodsky, & Morrison, 1976). Chapey et al. 


more information about the stories associated with 


(1976) suggested that in addition to convergent tasks 


the videos from the couples’ posttreatment conver-


requiring one correct answer (such as with confron-


sations than from the conversations they had prior 


tation naming), divergent naming tasks were also 


to receiving conversational coaching. 


needed to assess a “full range of word-finding con-


Although script training is often a central com-


ditions” (Davis, 2000, p. 87). Therefore, this task 


ponent in conversational coaching, the Hopper et al. 


requires a patient to access memory in a broad sense 


(2002) study shows that it is not necessary. What 


of the term for stored semantic concepts, to offer 


is always an important element in conversational 


a variety of appropriate or alternative responses 


coaching is the collaboration between the clinician 


(Chapey et al., 1976). Wepman (1972, 1976) sup-


and the patient in deciding what scenarios or com-


ported the cognitive stimulation aspect to aphasia 


munication acts should be targeted and what commu-


therapy. He believed that the use of discussions with 


nication strategies will be worked on in treatment. 


a central topic and expanding on ideas within that 


topic should be focal points of aphasia treatment. 


divergent word retrieval


It has been suggested that cognitive rehabilitation 


should go beyond the mere task of asking patients 


 Background


to recall a spoken word, which Lindfors (1987) 


describes as a lower level cognitive process. Instead, 


Divergent Word Retrieval is a cognitive stimula-


the clinician should aim to stimulate higher-level 


tion approach. Divergent word retrieval requires 


cognitive processes. They should facilitate inferenc-


that a person generate as many possible answers 


ing, thought organization, and problem solving in 


in relation to a given topic, or a named category. 


the patient, and that divergent thinking should be 


For example, given the word “farm,” how many dif-


one of the domains for cognition targeted for stimu-


ferent and appropriate farm animals can a person 


lation for the purpose of improving communication 


name? Or, given the topic “fishing,” how many dif-


skills (Chapey, 1994). 


ferent words associated with this sport can a person 


name? As Davis (2000) noted, “In a divergent mode, 


 Measurement


we generate a quantity and variety of responses” 


(p. 87). Additionally, divergent naming tasks are 


When assessing a patient’s divergent naming skills, 


open-ended (Chapey, 2001). Therefore, successful 


responses can be divided into two categories: (1) flu-


divergent naming involves the ability to generate 


ency (the number of responses a patient is able 


many logical connections and cognitive flexibility 


to generate); and (2) flexibility (the variety of the 


(Guilford, 1967). For example, when given the word 


patient’s responses; Chapey, 1994). In some cases, 


 farm,  one must have the ability to change from very it may be appropriate to look at the amount of 


obvious association with the word (animals, crops) 


unusual responses a patient is able to generate and 


to more indirect ones, for example, “grain,” “bales,” 


the amount of important details a patient provides 


and so forth. In a study by Grossman (1981), adults 


about a relevant topic. Guilford (1967) refers to this 


were asked to generate word lists for 10 catego-


as the creativity and the elaboration of the patient’s 


ries, including furniture, tools, clothing, and sports. 


responses on a naming task. 


Adults without aphasia produce an average of 14.66 


Using the Chapey Speech and Language Check-


words for each category. Adults with fluent aphasia 


list (Chapey, 1994, pp. 113–114), the patient is 


produced 6.71 words, whereas adults with nonflu-


instructed to produce numerous logical possibili-


ent aphasia produced 5.29 words (Davis, 2000). 


ties/perspectives/ideas where appropriate. Chapey 


presents the following tasks as a means to measure 


 Rationale


a patient’s ability to produce divergent naming:


Divergent naming should be addressed in the 


1.  List words beginning with a specified letter such 


evaluation and treatment of patients with aphasia 


as /s/ or /p/


  254  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch 2.  Name objects within a group


8.  Word Fluency:  List words that contain a speci-


3.  List uses for a common object


fied word or letter. 


4.  List problems inherent in a common situation


9.  Elaboration:  List detailed steps needed to make 


5.  Supply multiple possible solutions to problems


a briefly outlined plan work. 


6.  Suggest ways to improve a product


7.  Specify details in planning an event, making a 


decision, or describing a procedure


Life participation Approach 


8.  Specify numerous episodes within a story


to Aphasia (LpAA)


9. Elaborate


 Background


Chapey et al. (1977) and Chapey (1994) offer an 


example of how to score a patient’s response when 


The long-term goal for any patient being treated using 


asked to name “objects that can roll,” with the 


the LPAA approach is to reduce the barriers to the 


patient’s responses as follows:


patient’s participation in daily life activities and social relationships. In this approach, patients assume an 


1. baseball


active role in recovery. Patient participation occurs 


2. football


along a continuum that is ever changing and reflects 


3. basketball


status at the time of treatment. This continuum evolves 


4. nickel


by first addressing immediate goals, such as asking 


5. dime


nursing staff to use the bathroom, and later progresses 


6. quarter


to long-term goals, such as returning to a previous 


7. car


place of employment. LPAA targets any activities in 


8. truck


the individual’s daily life that are affected by aphasia, Fluency score = 8


even if these activities do not involve communication. 


LPAA is based on functional and pragmatic 


Flexibility score = 3 (patient included 


therapy approaches for patients with aphasia. 


3 categories: balls, money, and 


Although it is important for a patient to regain the 


transportation). 


ability to communicate their basic wants and needs, 


Additionally, if the above patient was to pro-


LPAA goes a step further in that it emphasizes the 


duce any words that were not relevant to the cat-


importance of  living   with aphasia by getting the egory of “objects that can roll,” those words would 


patient to engage in life despite the communica-


not be counted. The following list offers additional 


tion impairments (Chapey et al., 2008). Although 


ideas for eliciting divergent naming (Chapey, 1994):


some aphasia therapies address life enhancement 


only after language deficits have been remedied, this 


1.  Common Situations:  List problems that are in- 


approach identifies this goal from the beginning of 


herent in a common situation. 


treatment (Chapey et al., 2008). 


2.  Brick Uses:  List many different uses for a com-


mon object. 


 Methodology


3.  Improve Product:  Suggest ways to improve an 


object or a product. 


The primary focus of this treatment approach is 


4. Consequences: List the effect of a new and 


reengagement in life from the moment therapy 


unusual event. 


begins. The patient is heavily involved in helping 


5. Object Naming: List objects that belong to a 


design a treatment plan that encompasses his or 


broad class of objects. 


her goals of participation in daily life, thus creat-


6.  Differences:  Suggest ways in which two objects 


ing a sense of empowerment. Two components are 


are different. 


essential for reengagement in daily life activities: 


7.  Similarities:  Produce ways in which two objects 


a support system (family and friends) and patient 


are alike. 


motivation. Five core values are central to LPAA and 


 


10.  seLected treAtMent progrAMs And ApproAches  255


should be integrated into assessment and interven-


2.  Environmental or external (includes social and 


tion (Chapey et al., 2008). They are as follows:


physical structures that impede ability to func-


tion in everyday life activities)


Core value #1: enhancement of Life participa-


tion.   The clinician and patient work to improve short-To determine target goals, these two areas must be 


term and long-term participation in life. Together, the 


continuously prioritized and assessed throughout 


patient and clinician consider the following:


therapy. 


1. To what extent can the patient with aphasia 


Core value #5: emphasis Is on Availabil-


achieve life participation goals? 


ity of services as needed Throughout All 


2.  To what extent does the aphasia interfere with 


stages of Aphasia Therapy.   Services are avail-


achieving these goals? 


able from the onset and end only when the patient 


and clinician agree that life participation goals have 


Core value #2: All Those Affected by Apha-


been met. 


sia Are entitled to service.  Aphasia affects 


more than just the patient; it also affects family 


members, colleagues, and friends. Therefore, LPAA 


Lingraphica®


aims to support those in close association, which 


may potentially facilitate improved quality of life for 


Lingraphica  (http://www.Lingraphica.com) was 


the patient. Examples of supportive services include:


developed at the Boston VA Hospital nearly 30 


1.  Training others how to support and facilitate 


years ago. Researchers first produced a program 


communication (e.g., Kagan & Gailey, 1993; 


known as the Visual Communication System (VIC). 


Lyon et al., 1997)


Simple drawings that depicted categories of people, 


2.  Counseling regarding communication, life par-


actions, and objects were produced on index cards. 


ticipation, and how to live life to the fullest with 


The patients then selected cards from these catego-


aphasia (e.g., Holland, 1999; Ireland & Wootten, 


ries and laid them out to produce phrases and sen-


1996)


tences as an alternative means of communication. 


3.  Couples therapy — work on communication and 


In 1980, this system was adapted to the computer, 


relationship together (e.g., Boles, 1998)


and became known as Computer-Assisted Visual 


4. Group training in supported communication 


Communication (C-ViC; Helm-Estabrooks & Albert, 


(e.g., training work colleagues, training health 


2004; Shelton, Weinrich, McCall, & Cox, 1996; Steele, care practitioners; Elman, 2000). 


Kleczewska, Carlson, & Weinrich, 1992; Steele, Wein-


rich, Wertz, Kleczewska, & Carlson, 1989; Weinrich, 


Core value #3: The Measures of success 


Steele, Carlson, et al., 1989; Weinrich, Steele, Klecze-


Include documented Life enhancement  wska, et al., 1989). This program was then adapted Changes.  Outcome measures are a requirement 


into what is known today as Lingraphica, a speech-


of this treatment. The clinician is to assess:


generating device for use with patients with aphasia. 


Lingraphica was approved for funding by the Cen-


1.  The patient’s quality of life


ters for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) in 


2. The degree to which life participation goals 


2002. The cost of this device is reimbursed by most 


have been met. 


private insurance plans and many state Medicaid 


programs, including Medicare Part B, The Veterans 


Core value #4: personal and environmental 


Administration, Federal Supply Contract V797P–


Factors Are Targets of Intervention.   For peo-


4886a, Aetna, and the Department of Health and 


ple living with aphasia, daily life can be disrupted 


Human Services. 


in two areas:


Lingraphica provides patients with the ability 


1.  Personal, or internal (includes physical, emotional, 


to access a group of icons, pictures, and symbols 


and psychological changes related to aphasia)


that are compiled to represent words, phrases, and  


  256  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch sentences. The patient first chooses specific icons 


other Features Included in Lingraphica


and symbols and puts them together in logical order, 


in either phrase or sentence formats. As such, a 


1.  Practice Videos


patient is able to functionally communicate personal 


a.  A patient can click on a video demonstration 


needs, wants, and interests. 


of production of the syllable “pa.” When the 


patient clicks on this icon, a video reveals 


 Lingraphica Program Features


an up-close demonstration of a woman’s lips 


producing “pa” two times. The idea is for the 


Lingraphica is a speech-generating computer soft-


patient to then imitate this production. 


ware program that builds graphic symbols and pic-


b. Other videos include additional practice 


tures into phrases and sentences, which are then 


phonemes and standard phrases. 


spoken aloud by a computer-generated and natu-


2.  Training Videos


ral sounding human voice. The program integrates 


a.  These are offered to the patients, to pro-


the visual and auditory modalities. It is flexible in 


vide user-friendly video tutorials. The video 


that it provides multiple opportunities for extensive 


depicts a person walking the patient step-by-


practice and is appropriate for patients with vary-


step through all program features, and this 


ing levels of ability and who are at varying stages 


option is easily accessible through the “Help 


of recovery. The program is customizable in that 


Menu.” 


it may be individualized to the patient based on 


3.  Free Technical Support


his or her specific abilities, needs, and interests. 


a.  This is available toll-free, from 9 am to 5 pm. 


Equipped with a wide variety of vocabulary, patients 


A  patient or caregiver may even e-mail a 


may select specific words and build phrases and 


question and will receive a response within 


sentences to communicate basic wants and needs. 


24 hours. 


These phrases and sentences may then be saved and 


easily retrieved for later use. Lingraphica also comes 


The website also offers downloadable manuals and 


loaded with standard phrases that may be used when 


reference guides. There is live Internet support and 


eating in a restaurant or during doctors’ visits. 


even Web-based training over the Internet. 


Lingraphica contains 240 exercises ranging in 


Lingraphica is user-friendly, with easy-to-under-


difficulty from “easy” to “hard.” It “offers unlimited 


stand drop-down menu items. A Spanish version is 


speech practice, both at home and in therapy, through 


also included within the program for Spanish-speak-


rehearsal and repetition of icons and phrases that 


ing patients. Patients may even qualify for a free 


use natural human voices” (http://www.Lingraphica 


and no-obligation trial of Lingraphica. To determine 


.com). The program is to be administered by a trained 


eligibility, the following steps are recommended. 


and ASHA-certified speech-language pathologist. The 


following information provides a review of methods 


1.  The speech-language pathologist (SLP) working 


for individualizing the program to the patient:


with the patient provides the patient’s insurance 


information to Lingraphica staff. 


1. Small or large icons may be used, and this 


2.  Lingraphica staff runs a benefits check to make 


choice is based upon the patient’s eyesight. 


sure the device will be covered by the patient’s 


2.  A patient may create their own icons. For exam-


personal insurance company. Determination of 


ple, icons of grandchildren, Mary and Mega, 


eligibility is made within 24 hours. 


would have two standard icons, one for “my” 


3.  If determined eligible, a loaner device is shipped 


and one for “granddaughters,” as well as two 


out to the patient. (No paperwork is required.)


customized icons for “Mary” and “Megan.” 


4.  The SLP receives over-the-phone training, which 


3.  Two built-in cameras are included. There is a 


takes approximately one hour. 


still camera so that the patient may create still 


5.  The trial typically takes 4 weeks to complete, 


photos for personalized icons; and a video cam-


with 2 devoted to the SLP providing the train-


era that allows the patient to record video clips. 


ing, and 2 devoted to practice. 


 


10.  seLected treAtMent progrAMs And ApproAches  257


a.  During the 4-week trial period, the patient is 


Mapping Therapy


evaluated and introduced to the basic opera-


tions of the device by the speech-language 


Mapping therapy aims to improve the link between 


pathologist. Then the patient works indepen-


meaning and structure at the sentence level. The 


dently with the device while also continuing 


underlying premise of this therapeutic approach 


therapy sessions. The patient and the clini-


is that the patient has lost the ability to convey 


cian then decide if the device is appropriate 


meaning using noun-verb relationships, indicating 


for his or her communication needs. (http:// 


a problem with thematic roles. Therapy is focused 


www.Lingraphica.com). This decision is  on sentence production using probing questions: aided by a built-in “Clinical Consultant” who 


What is the verb? Who is doing the  verb-ing? Who or also trains the SLP on the device. 


what is the  verb-ing? This sentence query approach 6.  If after the trial period it is determined that the 


becomes more specific over a 3-month period. The 


program is appropriate, Lingraphica will send 


patient is asked to:


a Certificate of Medical Necessity form to the 


patient and will simultaneously gather a physi-


1.  Identify the verb. 


cian-written prescription, as well as insurance 


2. Identify the agent or actor by using a “who” 


company authorization. 


query before the verb. 


7.  The loaner device is shipped back to Lingraph-


3. Identify the patient/theme role by using a 


ica, free of charge. 


“what” query after the verb. 


8.  After all the necessary paperwork has been pro-


4.  Identify the locative by using the “where” query. 


cessed, a customized Lingraphica device is sent to 


5.  Ask questions about “when,” “why,” and “how.” 


the patient. This device will incorporate informa-


6.  Different sentence types are targeted, ranging 


tion specific to the patient, such as family mem-


from simple subject + object Noun Phrase (NPs), 


ber names and individual needs and interests. 


( Susan drinks the soda), to complex subject + 


9.  SLP’s have received 2.4 ASHA CEU’s after com-


object NPs, ( The man and woman are holding 


pleting the 4-week trial. 


 each other; Figure 10–1). 


V:  hold 


N: man 


N: woman 


Subject 


Noun Ph 


Verb Ph 


Det 


Aux 


Det 


Assign segmental and prosodic  


N 


V 


N 


structure for words. 


Figure 10–1.   An example of mapping treatment. 


  258  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Melodic Intonation Therapy (MIT)


2. Preselect stimulus items with associated 


pictures. 


 Background


3.  Stimulus items should be high-probability syl-


lables, phrases, or sentences. The Sentence Pro-


Goldstein (1942) found that patients with severe 


duction Program for Aphasia (SPPA) provides 


aphasia were able to correctly speak words through 


appropriate hierarchies of syntactic difficulty. 


the activity of singing. Clinicians then searched for 


4.  Include MIT score sheet. 


therapy options that used melody and rhythm to 


5. Sit across from the patient using a tabletop 


stimulate speech production. Melodic Intonation 


surface. 


Therapy (MIT) became the designated name for 


6. Begin with imperative sentences and sounds 


a therapy that capitalized on an intact right hemi-


that are most visible, such as bilabials. 


sphere and its role in processing intonation patterns. 


7.  Rotate a wide variety of words, phrases, and 


In 1994, the Therapeutics and Technology Assess-


sentences. 


ment Subcommittee of the American Academy of 


Neurology identified MIT as an “effective” treatment 


presentation


approach to language therapy. MIT uses rhythmic 


intonations of phrases and sentences as the tool 


1.  Intone target stimulus slowly. 


of language rehabilitation. The program is fully 


2.  Use continuous voicing. 


described in Helm-Estabrooks and Albert (2004). 


3.  Include high and low tones associated with nor-


MIT is best used with patients with nonfluent apha-


mal speech prosody (pitch). 


sia who have poorly articulated output, and moder-


4. Incorporate the rhythm and stress patterns 


ately preserved auditory comprehension. They also 


found in normal speech. 


must have good motivation and attention spans and 


5.  Face the patient so they may have visual access 


be emotionally stable. Patients who respond well to 


to your mouth. 


this approach have an intact right hemisphere, with 


6.  Use right hand to hold the patient’s left hand, 


a unilateral left hemispheric stroke. Most interest-


tapping it on the table for each syllable. 


ingly, patients who have poor repetition skills even 


7.  Use left hand to signal to the patient when to 


for single words also respond well to MIT. 


listen and when to intone. 


8.  Progress consecutively through all steps of each 


 Methodology


level; no step may be skipped. 


9.  Allow four attempts of each step. 


MIT follows a hierarchy of three levels, using the 


following target stimuli:


scoring.   For specific scoring procedures, refer to Manual of Aphasia and Aphasia Therapy (Helm-1.  Multisyllabic words


Estabrooks & Albert, 2004). Essentially, a patient’s 


2.  Short, high-probability phrases


score will determine progression to a more advanced 


3.  Increasing phonologically complex sentences


level, discontinuation of therapy, or a complete dis-


charge. Progression from one level to the next is 


The first two levels are musically intoned. The third 


dependent on the patient achieving a score of 90% 


level is first intoned, then given exaggerated speech 


or higher, using an assortment of target stimuli, dur-


prosody, and, finally, spoken with normal speech 


ing 5 consecutive therapy sessions. The levels are 


prosody. 


described below. 


preparation


 Level 1.   Pictures and environmental cues associated with the target stimuli are incorporated 


1. Consider the communication needs of the  throughout. Hand tapping is used for all target patient and the family. 


stimuli productions. 


 


10.  seLected treAtMent progrAMs And ApproAches  259


1.  Humming — The melody pattern of the stimulus 


4.  Provide a 6-second delay between Steps 3 and 4. 


item is hummed while a picture or environmen-


Request repetition and hand tap as the patient 


tal cue is provided. The patient’s hand is tapped 


repeats, but do not provide verbal assistance. If 


accordingly. Proceed to sing the stimulus item 


the patient fails, back up to Step 2: Unison with 


twice. No patient response is required. 


fading. If this proves successful, attempt Step 3 


2.  Unison intoning — Intone stimulus item in uni-


again. If the patient still fails, return to Step 1 


son. Hand tapping continues. If the patient is 


and introduce new stimulus item. 


unsuccessful after 4 repetitions, return to Step 


5. Response to probe question — Without hand 


1 and introduce a new stimulus item. 


tapping, quickly intone a probe question. For 


3.  Unison intoning with fading — Begin in unison, 


example, “What did you say?” The patient must 


intoning, and hand tapping. Halfway through 


then respond. Hand tapping may be provided 


stimulus item, fade voice. The patient must com-


simultaneously as the patient answers the ques-


plete the rest of the stimulus item independently. 


tion. If the patient is unsuccessful in providing 


4. Immediate repetition 


— 


Target stimulus is 


a response, back up to Step 3. If the patient 


intoned and tapped as the patient listens. The 


proves successful at Step 3, wait 6 seconds 


patient independently repeats the target stimu-


before attempting the probe question once 


lus while hand tapping continues. 


again. If the patient fails to answer this time, 


5. Response to probe question — Without hand 


return to Step 1 and introduce a new stimulus 


tapping, quickly intone a probe question. For 


item. 


example, “What did you say?” The patient must 


then respond. Hand tapping may be provided 


 Level 3.   This stage involves more complex utter-only as the patient answers the question. 


ances, with the aim of introducing normal prosody 


back into the patient’s speech. A transitional step 


After the 5 steps are completed in succession, pro-


known as  sprechgesang (speech song) is first introceed back to Step 1 and introduce a new stimulus 


duced to achieve the return to normal prosody and 


item. 


is thought to sound like choral reading. The rhythm 


and stress of the target stimuli are emphasized. The 


 Level 2.   Delays between the target stimulus and previous intoning of stimuli is now replaced by the 


the required response are introduced at this level. 


rising and falling pitches found in normal speech. 


Pictures and environmental cues associated with the 


Backing up to previous steps is also allowed in 


target stimuli, as well as hand tapping, are included. 


Level 3 but will affect the patient’s overall score. 


If the patient is unable to complete a step with a 


delay, the individual can back up to a previous step, 


1. Delayed repetition — Intone the target phrase 


however this will affect the patient’s overall score. 


while hand tapping, and pause for 6 seconds. 


If the patient is still unsuccessful then the clinician 


The patient repeats once. Provide hand tapping, 


introduces a new target stimulus. 


should the patient require it. If the patient fails, 


back up one level to Step 2: Unison with fad-


1.  Introduction of target phrase — Using hand tap-


ing. If successful, attempt delayed repetition in 


ping, target phrase is intoned and repeated 


Level 3 again. If the patient fails, introduce new 


twice. No response is required. 


stimulus item. 


2.  Unison with fading — Begin in unison, tone and 


2.  Introducing  “Sprechgesang” — Introduce  the  tar-


tap. Halfway through target phrase, fade voice 


get phrase twice. Do not sing; instead, exagger-


as the patient continues independently. Repeat 


ate the rhythm and stress, doing so in a slow 


target phrase twice in this format, even if the 


manner. Incorporate hand tapping. No response 


patient is successful. 


is required. 


3.  Delayed repetition — Intone target phrase and 


3. “Sprechgesang” (with fading) — Using sprech-


tap. 


gesang, begin the target phrase in unison with 


 260  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch the patient. Fade voice while the patient com-Albert Einstein Healthcare Network and Jefferson 


pletes the phrase independently. If the patient 


Health System of Pennsylvania), is a computer-


fails, repeat utterance in unison, but do not fade 


based program focused on word-finding deficits, by 


voice. Successful performance of this results in 


training comprehension and production of words at 


attempting Step 3 again. If the patient fails after 


the word, phrase, and sentence levels. MTW is a soft-


backing up, return to Step 1 with a new stimu-


ware program that may be utilized in the clinic with 


lus item. 


the assistance of a speech-language pathologist or a 


4.  Delayed spoken repetition — The target phrase 


trained volunteer, or it may be used independently 


is spoken to the patient using normal prosody, 


in the patient’s own home (Fink, Brecher, Sobel, & 


without hand tapping. Allow for a 6-second 


Schwartz, 2005). MTW comes equipped with 340 


delay. The patient must repeat with normal 


vocabulary words and pictures, which may be pre-


prosody. If successful, move to Step 5 after a 


sented in both the visual and auditory modalities. 


6-second delay. If the patient is unsuccessful, 


attempt Step 4 again. If the patient continues 


 Program Interfaces


to be unsuccessful, return to Step 1 and pre-


sent a new stimulus item. Important: Include a 


There are three separate interfaces within the MTW 


6-second delay in between Step 4 and 5. 


program. They are as follows:


5. Response to a probe question — Ask a ques-


tion using normal prosody. The patient should 


1.  The Standard Interface contains three separate 


respond, also using normal prosody. If the 


treatment modules. Each module contains an 


patient fails, back up to Step 4 and then attempt 


array of exercises that are organized in a hier-


Step 5 again. If they succeed, return to Step 1 


archy of easy-to-difficult tasks. For example, 


and introduce a new stimulus item. 


a more difficult task might include lower fre-


quency vocabulary words or phonological foils 


 Measuring the Client’s Response to MIT


that closely resemble the target production. 


2.  The Customizing Interface gives clinicians and 


The functional goal of MIT is to improve the com-


caregivers the option of “preselecting” the items 


munication skills of patients with significant expres-


that will be included in the patient’s exercise. 


sive impairment. Progress can be measured by 


3.  The Assigned Exercises Interface allows “patients 


using a variety of tools, including: giving a close 


to access preselected exercises independently” 


family member the Communication Questionnaire 


(Fink et al., 2005, p. 947). 


(Helm-Estabrooks & Albert, 2004) before and after 


MIT; administering standardized aphasia tests that 


 Therapy Modules


require narrative descriptions of pictures, such as 


the “Cookie Theft” in the Boston Diagnostic Aphasia 


Fink et al. (2005) describe three general types of 


Examination (BDAE) and pre-and post-MIT speech 


therapeutic exercises that they refer to as, “therapy 


samples of the patient. 


modules.” 


1.  Core-Vocabulary Module.  Exercises include 


MossTalk words (MTw)


matching and naming tasks for the more 


severely impaired patient. This module contains 


The presence of word-finding deficits in patients 


a select group of vocabulary words associated 


with aphasia is well documented (Basso, 2003). 


with functional ADLs, such as common objects 


Such difficulties have been shown to interfere with 


and the names of foods. 


both daily living and social communication (Lesser 


2.  Multiple-Choice Matching Module.  Includes 


& Algar, 1995). MossTalk Words (MTW), developed 


exercises for strengthening vocabulary and com-


at Moss Rehabilitation Hospital (associated with the 


prehension in both speech and printed formats. 


 


10.  seLected treAtMent progrAMs And ApproAches  261


3.  Cued-Naming Module.   Single-word production 


gist may provide an extra level of support (Fink 


is the goal in this module. These exercises con-


et al., 2005). 


tain a cuing hierarchy and 8 possible cues (4 


visual and 4 print), which may be used to facili-


tate word retrieval and production. According 


narrative story Cards


to Fink et al., (2005), “The clinician assesses 


patient deficits and needs, and individualizes 


 Background


this module accordingly. The clinician can select 


the level of difficulty, the modality, the vocabu-


The process of telling and retelling a story involves 


lary, and/or which cues to activate for a given 


the interaction of cognitive and linguistic skills. 


exercise with a particular patient” (Fink et al., 


This process includes word-retrieval, correct word 


2005, p. 946). The cues are listed below (Rams-


morphology, appropriate sentence syntax, narrative 


berger & Marie, 2007). 


cohesion, working memory, pragmatic awareness, 


and visual perception. Narrative Story Cards as an 


Verbal cues:


approach is appropriate for adolescent and adult 


populations who have brain damage and who may 


1.  first phoneme


experience deficits in narrative discourse. 


2.  sentence completion


3. definition


4.  spoken word


 Methodology


The Narrative Story Cards include 15 separate stories 


Print cues:


to facilitate planning, organization, word-retrieval, 


1.  first letter


syntax, topic maintenance, and working memory. 


2.  written sentence completion


The stories contain emotional content, which is 


3.  written definition


thought to stimulate memory function, and each set 


4.  written word


includes pictures, a text, and titles. The Narrative 


Story Cards range in order of complexity from 3 


The clinician is advised to carefully consider the 


to 5 cards each: 6-story sets include 3 cards each; 


type of chronic patient before selecting MTW Fink  


4-story sets include 4 cards each; and 5-story sets 


et al. (2005). The authors state that MTW is also 


include 5 cards each. 


appropriate for patients with primary progressive 


All story sets include a story sheet to be used 


aphasia, and those who demonstrate semantically 


along with the cards for telling and retelling the 


based deficits that are moderate in nature. This pro-


story. A content unit checklist associated with each 


gram is not suited for patients with a Wernicke’s type 


story is also included. This is used to record cli-


aphasia, cognitive impairments, or patients who per-


ent responses and to determine narrative discourse 


severate. Both patients and clinicians alike gave high 


skills (Helm Estabrooks & Nicholas, 2002). For 


satisfactory remarks regarding MTW, highlighting 


example, in the story “Casino Luck,” card 3 reads, 


ease of use and level of enjoyment. Initially, clini-


“It’s now four o’clock, and Joe has just a few pen-


cians invested time to learn the software, but the 


nies left. Three hours and no luck!” The following 


general feeling was that this investment paid off 


information units are included on the checklist:


long term, in that MTW saved clinicians time once 


the program was in use. 


1. four


The use of computer technology is intimidat-


2. o’clock


ing to some, especially those patients who are not 


3. Joe/he


regularly exposed to computers. Therefore, using a 


4. has


volunteer in the computer lab who is trained and/or 


5. few


supervised by a certified speech-language patholo-


6. pennies


 262  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch 7. three


may create a disconnection between the two com-


8. hours


municating centers. It is this phenomenon that may 


9.  no luck


explain the difficulty of word generation found in 


individuals with nonfluent aphasia. 


If the client mentions any of the above words, a 


The relationship between gesture and the gen-


check mark is placed in the column to the right on 


eration of language in people with aphasia has a 


the score sheet. The final score is calculated by add-


long history in literature. Using American Indian 


ing the patient’s total information units and dividing 


Sign Language (AMERIND) to facilitate naming in 


this number by the total number of possible units. 


people with aphasia was investigated and showed 


If the total number of possible units was 55, but 


some success (Hoodin & Thompson, 1983; Kearns, 


the patient only expressed 23 units, the final score 


Simmon, & Sisterhen, 1982; Pashek, 1997; Skelly, 


would be 23/55 or 42%. 


Schinsky, Smith, & Fust, 1974). This therapeutic 


approach required the patient to name objects while 


 List of Tasks


simultaneously performing a hand gesture with their 


non-dominant hand. A more recent pilot study sug-


The following list of tasks is suggested for use with 


gested that the complex hand movements activated 


Narrative Story Cards (Helm-Estabrooks & Nicholas, 


the intentional centers in the right hemisphere, and 


2002). 


as a result, helped with word production (Richards, 


Singletary, Rothi, Koehler, & Crosson, 2002). If these 1.  Sequencing the cards


complex hand movements activated intentional 


2.  Telling a story once given the cards


centers in the right hemisphere, maybe they could 


3.  Retelling the story and making up a new ending


potentially activate the initiation of language. The 


4.  Giving the story a title


underlying theoretical construct is that switching 


5.  Comprehension for titles read


initiation centers to the same side as the production 


6.  Comprehension of story read, matched to cor-


centers, (initiated by complex hand movement in the 


rect pictures


nondominant hand) would improve naming accuracy. 


7.  Writing story given information


8.  Writing story without word prompts


 Treatment


9.  Retelling story in written form


10.  Auditory comprehension of information


The treatment protocol is described below (Richards 


et al., 2002), and it can be utilized in the therapy 


session with a few modifications. In lieu of the com-


nonsymbolic Movements for 


puter program, the clinician could provide his or 


Activation of Intention (nMAI)


her own black and white line drawings and accom-


panying words. A stopwatch is also required. The 


 Background


treatment seeks to stimulate right hemisphere initia-


tion centers by using complex hand gestures in the 


The self-initiation of complex behaviors begins in 


non-dominant hand. The phases are in succession, 


the region anterior to the supplementary motor area, 


beginning with the patient receiving external cues, 


an intentional mechanism center within the brain 


to the patient receiving no cues and creating their 


(Picard & Strick, 1996). Complex behaviors include 


own nonsymbolic hand gesture. 


language tasks such as word generation and hand 


Treatment in the Richards et al. (2002) research 


gesturing, which individuals with nonfluent aphasia 


study consisted of three phases. Each phase included 


have difficulty initiating due to lesions in that area. 


ten 45-minute sessions. During each session, the cli-


After a stroke in the left hemisphere, language pro-


nician presented and named a set of 50 black and 


duction mechanisms may move to the right hemi-


white line drawings, for a total of 150 pictures for 


sphere, whereas the intention mechanisms remain 


all three phases. The 50 words in each phase were 


in the left hemisphere. According to the theory, this 


broken down into 15 high-frequency, 15 medium-


 


10.  seLected treAtMent progrAMs And ApproAches  263


frequency, and 20 low-frequency words. The clini-


phase III of Intention Treatment (10 sessions).   


cian began each trial by activating a timer with a 


A different set of 50 line drawings is introduced. 


mouse click. When the black and white line drawing 


appeared on the computer monitor, the patient was to 


1.  The patient is seated in the same position as in 


name the picture as quickly as possible. If the patient 


Phase I. 


was unable to produce the correct name within 20 


2.  The clinician activates the program by clicking 


seconds, the computer program recorded an incor-


the mouse. 


rect response and moved on to the next probe item. 


3.  A star appears in the center of the screen, with-


out tone. 


phase I of Intention Treatment (10 sessions).   


4.  The patient is to produce a meaningless hand 


The same set of 50 line drawings is trained each day 


gesture with the left hand 3 times. 


of the treatment phase. 


5.  The clinician clicks the mouse button to begin 


presentation of line drawings. 


1.  The patient sits at a desk. Body and head face 


6.  Incorrect responses are corrected in the same 


straight forward. 


way as in Phases I and II. 


2.  The computer monitor is positioned in front of 


the patient. 


3.  The clinician activates the program by clicking 


 Results


the mouse. 


The authors of the study employed the single-


4.  An image of a star appears in the center of com-


subject A-B design. Two tests were administered: 


puter screen along with a 1000-Hz tone. 


the Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure Test (Meyers & 


5.  The patient presses a button inside a box to his 


Meyers, 1995) and the Block Design Subtest of the 


or her left to make the star and tone disappear. 


Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised Edition 


6.  After a 2-second delay, a black and white draw-


(WAIS-R; Wechsler, 1981). In one subject, gesturing 


ing appears, and the timer begins. 


with the left hand appeared to facilitate word gen-


7.  Correct naming of the object prompts the clini-


eration, aiding in motor production and reducing 


cian to click the mouse, which ends the timer 


the patient’s groping for words. There was over-


and removes the picture from the screen. 


all improvement in functional communication, as 


8.  Incorrect naming of the object prompts the cli-


reported by the patient’s caretakers. Additionally, 


nician to name a picture while making a circular 


there was carryover of the hand gestures to every-


gesture with the left hand. 


day situations. Because there were only three par-


9.  The patient repeats this word and imitates the 


ticipants in the study, the authors caution against 


hand gesture. 


generalizing the findings to the broader population. 


Additionally, they noted limitations associated with 


phase II of Intention Treatment (10 sessions).   


an A-B design. Although results of this study were 


A different set of 50 line drawings is introduced. 


promising, further investigation is needed. Finally, 


1.  The patient is seated in the same position as in 


if this program is utilized as it is described, then 


Phase I. 


it requires at least 30 therapy sessions, which can 


2.  The clinician activates the program by clicking 


be an issue with the fiscal constraints imposed by 


the mouse. 


insurers in today’s healthcare environment. 


3.  A star appears in the center of the screen, with-


out tone. 


4.  The patient presses a button inside a box to his 


normal sentence production


or her left to make the image go away. 


5. After a 2-second delay, the black and white 


Interest and research into understanding the sen-


drawing appears, and the timer begins. 


tence production of aphasic speakers has led to a 


6.  Incorrect responses are corrected in the same 


reconceptualization of not only that process but 


way as Phase I. 


even the way that process is studied. For many years, 


 264  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch the goal of studying sentence production in aphasia 


be given tasks to facilitate thematic role production. 


was to correlate the findings with anatomic data, 


The clinician would show the patient a picture of a 


so that speakers could be classified according to 


scene, and ask the patient, “Who is doing what to 


type, for example, Broca’s, Wernicke’s, and so forth. 


whom?” A patient with difficulty at the Positional 


However, since the mid-1980s, researchers focused 


Level would be engaged in tasks that focused on 


their energy on determining how normal sentence 


argument structure. The fewer the arguments, the 


production was disrupted due to aphasia and left 


easier it is to generate a sentence. 


the classification issue behind. Borrowing from 


cognitive neuropsychology, language researchers 


found that cognitive analyses gave them a method 


oral reading for Language in 


to  interpret  aphasic language rather than  diagnose Aphasia (orLA) and orLA with 


it. Garrett (1988) developed a model of sentence 


virtual Therapist (orLA-vT)


production from this perspective. 


Garrett (1988) proposed three levels of cognitive 


ORLA was developed to help individuals with alexia 


representation used during sentence production: the 


improve their reading comprehension skills. Early 


Message Level Representation, the Functional Level 


research indicated that patients not only improved 


Representation, and the Positional Level Represen-


reading comprehension but also other language skills 


tation. The Message Level is the level of meaning 


such as oral expression and written expression (Cher-


and intent. It is pre-linguistic and the highest level 


ney, 2004). ORLA focuses on connected discourse 


of sentence production. It is at this level that the 


rather than isolated words to support the natural 


speaker decides to “say something.” Consequently, 


rhythm and intonation of speech. ORLA requires rep-


speakers with difficulty at this level are unable to 


etition of stimuli with responses that are not forced 


generate neither intent nor meaning rendering them 


or corrected. Incorrect responses are followed by 


not functionally communicative. Speakers with dif-


additional stimulation. There are four main principles 


ficulty at the Functional Level can produce gram-


to this program. They are: (1) active participation by 


matical morphemes, but have an impaired ability to 


the learner, (2) repetitive practice with overlearning, 


express thematic roles, for example, “Who is doing 


(3) use of meaningful material with graduated dif-


what to whom?” This level specifies word mean-


ficulty levels, and (4) successful experiences. 


ings for the content of the sentence, and multiple 


ORLA has four levels of treatment based on 


words are considered as candidates for selection. 


reading level and length of utterance, making this 


It also is argued that this level may be implicated 


a program that can be adapted for individuals with 


in the noun/verb relationship. Thus, the choices 


a broad range of aphasia. The treatment levels are 


made at this level will place some restrictions on the 


based on a reading comprehension ability score 


structure of the sentence, although at this level, the  


obtained from a measure such as the  Western Apha-


sentence contains no formal structure. Finally, there 


 sia Battery-Revised (WAB; Kertesz, 2006) or the oral is the Positional Level. It is at this level that the syn-reading fluency portion of the  Gray Oral Reading 


tactic phrase constituents impose structure on the 


 Test (Wiederholt & Bryant, 2012). The treatment forming sentence. Phonologically specified words 


levels are:


are chosen, and free and bound morphemes are 


inserted. Impairment at this level produces a person 


n  Level 1:  Simple 3 to 5-word sentences at a 


with agrammatic verbal output. 


first-grade reading level


Based on the above description of sentence 


n  Level 2:  8 to 12 words that may be single 


production, a clinician would view the sentences 


sentences or two short sentences, at a 


produced by a person with aphasia from that per-


third-grade reading level


spective. The patient’s therapy program would be 


n  Level 3:  15 to 30 words, divided into 2 to 


constructed around and within the level the error 


3 sentences at a sixth-grade reading level


patterns were found. For example, a patient whose 


n  Level 4:  50 to 100 words composing 4 to 


errors were noted to be at the Functional Level would 


6 sentences


 


10.  seLected treAtMent progrAMs And ApproAches  265


The ORLA treatment approach has five basic steps. 


Step 2.  The VT reads aloud again, and the 


During treatment, the SLP sits across from the 


patient points to each highlighted word as it 


patient, providing an opportunity to view oral-motor 


is read. 


movements. 


Step 3.  The VT reads the sentence aloud 


again, and the patient points to each word 


Step 1.  SLP reads each word to the patient 


and reads it aloud in unison with the VT. 


while pointing to it. 


Step 2.  SLP reads aloud with the patient, 


Step 4.  The VT reads the same sentence 


pointing to each word as they read it 


again (as in #3 above), but the VT fades 


together. The SLP adjusts his or her speaking 


the words at the end of the sentence so the 


rate according to the patient’s needs. 


patient can read aloud independently. 


Step 3.  SLP says a word in each line or 


Step 5.  The VT says a word in each sentence 


sentence, and the patient must identify that 


that the patient must identify. 


word by pointing to it. 


Step 6.  For each sentence, the VT highlights 


Step 4.  SLP points to a word in a sentence 


a word for the patient to read aloud. 


and asks the patient to read the word aloud. 


Step 7.  The patient reads the whole sentence 


Step 5.  The whole sentence is read aloud 


aloud in unison with the VT. 


again in unison by the SLP and the patient. 


The steps are repeated to further enhance 


Research has shown that there was no sig-


the patient’s reading level. 


nificant difference in outcomes between computer-


based ORLA and the traditional SLP-delivered 


ORLA is an interactive program that is easy to 


version (Cherney 2010b). However, one difference 


implement with a client. As patients decode words 


was that in using the ORLA-VT program, the patient 


more quickly, they typically begin to comprehend 


had to be able to operate a computer, understand 


with greater success. Reading comprehension, oral 


directions, and attend to the VT. 


expression, and written expression all improve in 


persons with either a fluent or nonfluent aphasia. 


Rhythm, pacing, and linguistic templates appear to 


promoting Aphasics’ 


help patients establish their own rhythm, melody, 


Communicative 


and rate of speech. The ease and repetitive nature 


effectiveness (pACe)


of ORLA seems to help patients work independently, 


with others, or with a computer (Cherney, 2010a). 


 Background


ORLA-VT is the computer-based version of ORLA. 


It uses a multimodality stimulation approach that 


PACE therapy (Davis, 2007; Wilcox & Davis, 1977) 


includes listening to a sentence, tapping along with 


attempts to mimic the natural exchange of conversa-


a rhythm, and repeating sentences aloud along with 


tion between two people. As noted by Wertz (1984), 


the virtual therapist (VT). As in ORLA, with ORLA-


PACE focuses on the  context of language rather than VT, responses are not forced or corrected. Instead, 


 content.  In the program, both the clinician and patient correct responses are modeled. When an error is 


assume equal responsibility in communication, 


made, additional stimulation is provided. There are 


much like conversation partners do every day during 


seven steps to ORLA-VT. They are as follows:


conversation. Both communicators take turns send-


ing and receiving messages. PACE does not require 


Step 1.  A sentence or paragraph is shown 


a specific modality of communication. Instead, the 


on the computer screen. The VT reads the 


patient is free to communicate through whatever 


sentence to the patient with each word read 


modality he or she chooses. As noted by Peach 


as it is highlighted on the computer screen. 


(2008), PACE falls within the category of Functional 


 266  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Communication Treatment (FCT) and has been used 


3. The communication mode is chosen by the 


with globally aphasic patients. In this model, improv-


patient. 


ing the patient’s ability to communicate individual 


Instead of the clinician training a specific com-


and daily needs is the central theme. 


munication modality, the patient chooses their 


response mode. Drawings, speaking, writing, 


 Methodology


pantomiming, gesturing, and pointing at objects 


are all accepted modalities. Leaving options 


PACE follows a hierarchy, referred to as  phases, 


open permits greater chances of patient success. 


whereby complexity of communication and abstrac-


4.  Functional feedback is provided. 


tion of the message increases as therapy continues. 


The clinician responds to the patient in the 


Picture cards are used as message-generating stim-


same way that a conversational partner would 


uli, and the clinician is free to choose the images 


in a typical conversational paradigm. If the clini-


within a specific phase. The phases are:


cian successfully understood the patient’s mes-


sage, he or she will respond appropriately. This 


1.  Phase I uses everyday object picture cards. 


gets the clinician away from the traditional role 


2.  Phase II uses verb picture cards. 


of rating a patient’s response as either correct 


3.  Phase III uses story-sequence picture cards. 


or incorrect. If the patient has accurately con-


veyed the information, the clinician will under-


PACE is composed of the following principles of 


stand it and give reinforcement in the form of 


conversation. 


a response. 


1.  New information is exchanged between clini-


cian and patient. 


response elaboration 


A stack of picture cards is placed face down 


Training (reT)


between the patient and the clinician so that 


neither the clinician nor the patient knows what 


 Background


is depicted on the picture cards. The clinician 


and the patient take turns describing a picture 


Response Elaboration Training (RET) is a method 


while the other deciphers the message. Because 


that attempts to mimic natural communication and 


only one person at a time is aware of what is 


promote generalization of responses (Kearns, 1985, 


depicted on the picture cards, the information 


1990). RET is different from traditional production 


exchanged is new information, and the per-


methods in that no predetermined set of responses 


son with aphasia must figure out how to con-


are trained. Instead, the clinician uses patient-ini-


vey this new information to the clinician. The 


tiated responses as the main substance of therapy. 


positive part of both partners assuming equal 


These responses are shaped and expanded by the cli-


roles in communication is that the clinician can 


nician to increase the length and richness of patient 


model appropriate responses for the patient to 


utterances. The end goal is to increase a patient’s 


imitate when it is their turn. Second, the clini-


ability to self-initiate responses and become an inde-


cian can model communication modalities that 


pendent communicator. RET is based on a “loose 


the patient may not be using but is capable of 


training” method developed by Stokes and Baer 


using. Picture cards should follow the hierarchy, 


(1977). Loose training procedures create a treatment 


beginning with everyday object picture cards, 


environment that provides stimuli that are found in 


moving to verb picture cards, and finally, using 


the natural environment, allows for response varia-


story-sequence picture cards. 


tions that occur in that environment, thus promoting 


2.  Equal participation of patient and clinician. 


generalization outside the therapy room (Marshall, 


Both people take turns sending and receiving 


2008). The literature does show evidence of gener-


messages. In this way, therapy resembles a natu-


alization with this treatment methodology (Kearns, 


ral conversation. 


1985; Kearns & Potechin, 1988). 


 


10.  seLected treAtMent progrAMs And ApproAches  267


 Methodology


5.  A second model of sentences that combine pre-


vious responses are modeled, and then the cli-


Action picture cards are the stimuli used in RET, typ-


ent is instructed to repeat the sentence. 


ically consisting of transitive and intransitive verbs. 


6. Repetitions of combined sentences are rein-


(The clinician may choose his or her own imag-


forced, and a final sentence model is provided. 


ery under these guidelines.) Instead of providing 


a simple description of the action picture, patients 


Table 10–1 provides an example of the clinician and 


are encouraged to draw on their world knowledge 


patient’s role in RET. The picture stimuli provided 


and personal experience in formulating a response. 


to the patient in this example shows a man sweep-


The clinician follows the steps below for elaborat-


ing the floor. 


ing a patient’s self-initiated utterances, as outlined 


by Kearns (1990):


schuell’s stimulation Approach


1.  An initial response is elicited to a picture stimulus. 


2.  This response is modeled and reinforced by the 


 Background


clinician. 


3.  “Wh-” cues are provided to prompt clients to 


After two decades of working with people with 


elaborate on their initial responses. 


aphasia, Hildred Schuell developed the Stimula-


4. The subsequent client-attempted response is 


tion Facilitation Approach, also known as Schuell’s 


reinforced, and then sentences that combine 


Stimulation Approach. She believed that language 


initial and subsequent responses to a given 


was neither lost nor destroyed in the patient with 


stimulus picture are modeled. 


aphasia. Rather, she believed that language was 


Table 10–1.   ret steps and responses


ret steps


Clinician’s stimulus


patient’s response


Clinician’s Feedback


1.   elicit initial verbal 


Line drawing of simple 


“Man . . . sweeping.” 


response to picture. 


event (man with a broom). 


“tell me what’s happening 


in this picture.” 


2.   reinforce, model, and 


“great. the man is 


shape initial response. 


sweeping.” 


3.   “Wh”-cue to elicit 


“Why is he sweeping?” 


“Wife . . . mad.” 


elaboration of initial 


response


4.   reinforce, model, and 


“Way to go! the man 


shape the two patient 


is sweeping the floor 


responses combined. 


because his wife is mad.” 


5.   second model and 


“try and say the whole 


“Man . . . sweeping . . . 


“good job.” 


request repetition. 


thing after me. say, ‘the 


wife . . . mad.” 


man is sweeping the floor 


because his wife is mad.’ ” 


6.   After  reinforcement, 


“now, try to say it one 


“the man . . . sweeping 


elicit a delayed 


more time.” 


because his wife . . . 


imitation of the 


mad.” 


combined response. 


 Sources:  Kearns & potechin, 1988; Kearns & Yedor, 1991. 


 268  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch no longer easily retrieved due to a damaged, less 


1.  Use intensive auditory stimulation. 


efficient system. Therefore, her therapy approach 


2.  Pair visual and auditory modalities together. 


does not “reteach” language. Instead, the speech-


3. Stimulation should be sufficient enough to 


language pathologist is to “stimulate adequate func-


reach the brain. 


tioning of disrupted processes” (Schuell, Carroll, & 


4.  Sensory stimulation should be repetitive. 


Street, 1955). 


5.  Stimuli provided to the patient should evoke a 


Coelho, Sinotte, and Duffy (2008) state that 


response. 


Schuell’s approach to aphasia is one “that places its 


6.  Try for a maximum number of responses from 


primary emphasis on the stimulation presented to 


the patient. 


the patient” (p. 403). The goal is to help maximize 


7.  Provide feedback to the patient about his or her 


the patient’s reorganization of language. It is gen-


progress. 


erally understood that most patients with aphasia 


8.  Treatment should be systematic and often. 


demonstrate weaknesses in the auditory modality 


9.  Each session should follow a hierarchy, from 


(Duffy & Ulrich; 1976; Schuell, Jenkins, & Jiménez-easy to more difficult tasks. 


Pabón, 1964; Smith, 1971). Schuell’s stimulation 


10.  The clinician should have a variety of materials 


approach encourages speech-language pathologists 


on hand to help ward off boredom if using drill-


to strengthen language input and output. The inten-


style formats. 


sive stimulation involved in this approach is thought 


to strengthen the disrupted neural pathways impor-


 Where to Begin Therapy 


tant to language processing. 


 (Brookshire, 1992)


Schuell did not classify aphasic patients into the 


traditional groupings, that is, fluent versus nonflu-


1.  The clinician should begin at a level where the 


ent aphasia. Instead, the aphasias were classified 


patient is demonstrating only minor deficiencies. 


according to three other criteria: the severity of the 


2.  Begin with tasks in which the patient’s responses 


language impairment, the presence of sensory or 


are correct about 60% to 80% of the time. 


motor deficits, and the patient’s prognosis (Duffy & 


3. Increase the level of difficulty when perfor-


Coelho, 2001). 


mance reaches 90%. 


 System of Classification


The use of standardized assessments can measure 


baseline performance and pinpoint an appropriate 


Schuell’s system of categorizing aphasia included 


starting point. For instance, if a patient is incorrect 


the following ( Jenkins, Jiménez-Pabón, Shaw, & 


50% of the time during a two-step direction task 


Sefer, 1975):


on a standardized test, use that as the therapeutic 


starting point. 


n  Simple aphasia


n  Aphasia with visual involvement


 Tasks


n  Aphasia with persisting dysfluency


n  Aphasia with scattered findings


Tasks highlighting the patient’s Auditory 


n  Aphasia with sensorimotor involvement


Capabilities


n  Aphasia with intermittent auditory 


imperception


1.  “Point-to” tasks, for example, “Point to the pencil” 


n  Irreversible aphasia syndrome


2. Following directions of varied length and 


complexity


The stimulation approach to aphasia has general 


3. Answering yes-or-no questions and verify 


principles that will facilitate success with the patient 


sentences


(Brookshire, 1992; Schuell, 1974; Schuell et al., 


4. Response switching (rapidly changing direc-


1964). They are:


tions to follow, questions to answer)


 


10.  seLected treAtMent progrAMs And ApproAches  269


Tasks highlighting the patient’s verbal and 


missing words in sentences, write down essen-


Auditory Capabilities


tial information told, etc.)


1.  Repetition tasks


2.  Sentence or phrase completion


semantic Feature Analysis (sFA)


3.  Verbal association


4.  Answering “wh-”questions


Semantic Feature Analysis (SFA) is a technique for 


5. Connected utterances in response to single 


guiding the patient to retrieve the target word by 


words (define words and complete phrases)


having the patient identify semantically related 


6.  Retelling paragraphs and stories


features of the word. An important aspect of this 


7. “Self-initiated” or conversational verbal tasks 


treatment is that patients are cued to produce all 


(name pictures, describe function of objects, 


the semantic features of the target word, even if 


describe activities, etc.). 


it is successfully named, because the intent is to 


strengthen the semantic network associated with the 


Tasks Targeting the patient’s reading and 


target word. 


writing Abilities


Figure 10–2 illustrates the treatment diagram 


1.  Reading (match written words and sentences to 


used in SFA. When providing SFA, the SLP places a 


pictures, identify letters named, read in unison, 


picture of an object in the center of the diagram and 


fill in missing words in sentences, read aloud 


asks the patient to name it. Next, the SLP systemati-


and retell, etc.)


cally asks each of the questions around the picture. 


2.  Writing (copy forms, letters, words, write let-


After all the questions about the semantic features 


ters to dictation, write known information, fill in 


associated with the picture have been asked, the SLP 


Group 


Use 


Action 


 It is a... 


 You use it to / for... 


 What does it do? 


Target 


Picture 


Properties 


Location 


Association 


 Describe it. 


 You find it... 


 It reminds me of a... 


Figure 10–2.   semantic Feature Analysis. 


  270  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch asks the patient to name the picture again. The ques-followed but cues can be provided by others in the 


tions shown in Figure 10–2 are designed to help the 


group. Kladouchou et al. (2017) reported results that 


client retrieve the names of objects (nouns). The 


indicated ESFA can be effectively implemented in 


SFA approach can also be used for naming actions 


both individual and group settings by having clini-


(verbs) depicted in a picture by changing the ques-


cians follow a treatment manual. Treatment integrity 


tions in the SFA diagram as follows (Wambaugh, 


reached 94.6% when delivered in individual therapy 


Mauszycki, & Wright, 2014):


and 86.7% in group sessions. 


n  Subject (“Who usually does this?”)


n  Purpose of Action (“Why does this 


sentence production program 


happen?”)


for Aphasia (sppA)


n  How (“What part of the body, or what 


tool, is used to make this happen?”)


 Background


n  Physical Properties (“Tell me what it looks 


like.”)


According to Helm-Estabrooks and Nicholas (2000), 


n  Location (“Where does this action take 


sentence-level deficits are a diagnostic indicator for 


place?”)


nonfluent aphasia. In a previous study, Gleason, 


n  Related Objects or Actions (“What does it 


Goodglass, Green, Ackerman, and Hyde (1975), using 


make you think of?”)


story-completion tasks with patients who displayed 


Broca’s Aphasia and agrammatism, concluded that 


Because the patient learns to describe features of 


the patients were not lacking in  knowledge  of syn-a word in a systematic way, SFA training also pro-


tax, but  access  to that knowledge (Davis, 2000). This motes self-cuing and use of semantically appropriate 


study was the inspiration behind training a hier-


circumlocutions that can be used as a compensatory 


archy of syntactic structures in Sentence Produc-


strategy in conversations when the patient experi-


tion Program for Aphasia (SPPA), beginning with 


ences a word-finding problem. This can be practiced 


easy-to-produce structures and ending with more 


in the context of an aphasia conversation group 


complex ones. Results of the study indicated that 


(Antonucci, 2009). 


patients had the ability to produce a wide variety of 


A modified version of SFA-Verbs was presented 


syntactically correct utterances (Helm-Estabrooks & 


in Chapter 5 in the section on bilingual aphasia. 


Albert, 2004). 


Elaborated Semantic Feature Analysis (ESFA) 


The overarching goal of SPPA is to improve 


(Kladouchou, Papathanasiou, Efstratiadou, Chris-


communication skills in the patient’s daily social 


taki, & Hilari, 2017) is a therapeutic approach that 


interactions, such as making requests, conversing 


augments traditional semantic feature analysis  with others, and asking questions. Potential candi-


(Boyle, 2004). In this approach, the client selects 


dates for SPPA include patients who are nonfluent 


a picture and names it from the stimuli using the 


with agrammatic speech patterns and who have rel-


standard semantic feature chart (Boyle 2004). The 


atively spared auditory comprehension. SPPA seeks 


client is then asked to come up with words that are 


to reduce the impact of agrammatism on spoken 


semantically related. The clinician can provide cues 


communication by improving the patient’s ability 


to help the client think of features related to the 


to speak in increasingly longer and more complex 


target word, such as asking the client questions, pro-


sentences. 


viding sentence stems to complete, and writing. The 


alphabet can also be used as a cue to help the client 


 Program Overview


retrieve letters to write. The goal is for the client 


to produce phrases and sentences using the target 


SPPA contains eight sentence types that are pre-


word along with a feature word. EFSA can also be 


sented in a hierarchy of increasing difficulty, with 


used with group therapy and the same process is 


15 target sentences each and two separate levels 


 


10.  seLected treAtMent progrAMs And ApproAches  271


of difficulty (Helm-Estabrooks & Nicholas, 2000). 


Stimulus Phrase: “Wake up.” 


All materials needed for the SPPA program are pro-


Level A:  Nick’s school bus arrives in 15 minutes, 


vided. This includes stories, pictures, and target 


and Nick is still asleep. His mother tells him, 


stimuli. In addition to the published version (Helm-


“Wake up!” What does his mother say? 


Estabrooks & Nicholas, 2000), clinicians may use 


their own target stimuli, pictures, and stories, if they 


Level B:  Nick’s school bus arrives in 15 minutes, 


follow the sentence-type hierarchy. The eight sen-


and he is still asleep. What does his mother tell 


tence types are:


him to do? 


1.  Imperative intransitive 


“Wake up.” 


 Presentation Suggestions


2.  Imperative transitive 


“Drink your milk.” 


3.  Wh-interrogative 


“What are you  


1.  Speak in a natural voice. 


(what and who)  


watching?”; 


2. Use a slow, natural rhythm with appropriate 


“Who is coming?” 


pauses and intonation. 


3.  Level A probe:  Pause right before saying the tar-


4.  Wh-interrogative 


“Where is the  


get stimuli, so the patient is attuned to it, there-


(where and when)  


hospital?”; “When 


fore enhancing his or her ability to repeat it. 


are we landing?” 


4.  Level B probe:  Use rising intonation at the end 


5.  Declarative transitive 


“I teach school.” 


of reading, so the patient is clued in to when 


6.  Declarative intransitive 


“He swims.” 


it’s time to complete the story. 


7.  Comparative 


“She’s taller.” 


5.  If the patient fails to respond, one repetition 


only is granted at each level. 


8.  Yes/No questions 


“Is it sad?” 


6.  Upon successful response to Level A, immedi-


ately administer Level B to the patient. 


picture stimuli.   Pictorial representations include 7.  Once an 85% accuracy level is achieved with 


three different families of various ethnic back-


Level B, present the 15 items for each sentence 


grounds engaged in verbal interactions during 


type using only Level B. 


everyday situations. For example, to functionally 


8.  Progress to next sentence type in hierarchy. 


demonstrate what to do in an emergency, an illus-


tration of a family is shown responding to an acci-


scoring.   Patients can receive a score of 0, .5, or 1. 


dent, reaching for the phone. The target phrase is, 


The manual includes specific instructions, as well 


“Call 911.” 


as scoring sheets that may be reproduced. For more 


information, refer to Helm-Estabrooks and Albert 


 Difficulty Levels.   There are two difficulty levels (2004). 


for each picture. One provides a clinician model, 


and the other one does not provide a model. 


Measuring progress.  The functional goal of 


SPPA is to reduce the patient’s agrammatism and 


Level A:  Clinician model provided: patient 


to improve the ability to communicate using more 


repeats a modeled sentence in response to a 


syntactically complex sentences. To assess progress, 


question. 


formal measures such as the Communicative Effec-


Level B:  No clinician model provided: patient 


tiveness Profile (CEP) (Menn, Ramsberger, & Helm-


completes the story with the target sentence, 


Estabrooks, 1994) can be used. It also is important 


without requiring the use of a clinician 


to obtain feedback from caregivers who interact 


model. 


with the patient in everyday situations. To assess 


carryover, ask the caregiver to keep a journal of the 


Examples of Sentence Type 1: Imperative 


patient’s functional use of conversations in activities 


Intransitive Sample


of daily living for your review. 


  272  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch sentenceshaper®


Treatment with SentenceShaper has assisted 


with carryover of sentences into spontaneous 


SentenceShaper is a software program that helps 


speech and narrative discourse. Studies have shown 


individuals with aphasia communicate by systemati-


that continual use of SentenceShaper may lead to 


cally creating sentences and narratives from words. 


improved generalization and spontaneous speech 


The program has more than 800 different therapeutic 


and it has been found helpful for individuals with 


exercises organized in workbooks to elicit different 


agrammatic aphasia. The program has been found 


grammatical structures. It is based on the premise 


to be most appropriate for individuals with apha-


that people with aphasia have delays in process-


sia who have the ability to produce some speech 


ing, experience word-finding problems, and have 


and who also have sufficient working memory to 


difficulty formulating sentences (Linebarger, Roma-


manipulate the program (Linebarger, Schwartz, & 


nia, Fink, Bartlett, & Schwartz, 2008). Accordingly, 


Kohn, 2001; McCall, Virata, Linebarger, & Berndt, 


these authors stated that the program “is based on 


2009). According to Fink, Bartlett, Lowery, Line-


evidence that words are retrieved more slowly and 


barger and Schwartz (2008), narratives produced 


may decay more quickly in persons with aphasia, 


with SentenceShaper contained a higher percentage 


causing them to have difficulty assembling all the 


of information (more than 90% correct informational 


elements of a sentence in memory simultaneously” 


units) than those not using the program. Results also 


(Linebarger et al., 2008, p. 1403). As a result, Sen-


found that patients had greater ability to generate 


tenceShaper makes it possible for patients to record 


sentences that carried over to unaided speech (Line-


words and phrases and build them into sentences. 


barger, McCall, Virata, & Berndt, 2007). 


Once they build the sentence, they can hear it by 


clicking on a series of icons that are replayed on the 


computer. The steps in SentenceShaper are:


speech entrainment


1. Record speech by touching the microphone 


People with Broca’s aphasia tend to speak tele-


button. Once recorded, an icon will appear. 


graphically, that is, in two-to-three-word phrases, 


Clicking on it will allow the patient to hear the 


and occasionally, one to two words depending on 


recording or snippet just said. 


the level of severity of the disorder. However, some 


2.  Drag the recording or snippet up to the sen-


patients can mimic the audiovisual stimuli of a flu-


tence row and place it in the first of two desig-


ent, nonaphasic speaker, enabling them to produce 


nated spots. 


fluent speech. Speech entrainment involves the pre-


3.  Press the play button above the snippets to play 


sentation of recorded audio-visual stimuli consisting 


them in the order they were created. 


of just the speaker’s mouth producing the sentence 


4. Continue building the sentence by recording 


or phrase that are to be imitated by the person with 


another word or phrase and adding it to the 


nonfluent aphasia (Fridriksson et al., 2012). For 


sequence. 


an excellent demonstration of this treatment, the 


5.  Play the entire sequence forming the sentence. 


reader is referred to the Julius Fridriksson’s TED 


6.  Click the button on the upper right of the sen-


Talks, which can be viewed on YouTube (https://


tence and words or phrases will be added to 


www .youtube.com/watch?v=Cy6S7aMmUYo). 


a story row where it will be represented by a 


Fridriksson et al. (2012) conducted three exper-


single icon, such as a purple oval. 


iments to examine the possible neural mechanism 


7.  Hear the sentence by clicking the purple oval. 


for the effect as well as its possible therapeutic 


By dragging the oval back to the sentence row, 


value. The results of the first experiment involv-


it will once again separate the snippets. 


ing 13 patients with Broca’s aphasia revealed that 


8.  By recording a snippet, arranging it in the sen-


they produced a greater variety of words using 


tence row, and then adding it to the story row, 


an audiovisual feedback model (modeling speech 


one can continue to build and separate sen-


while listening and watching another speak) versus 


tences and stories. 


audio-only feedback (modeling speech while lis-


 


10.  seLected treAtMent progrAMs And ApproAches  273


tening to another speak), and spontaneous speech 


duce. They produce short Subject-Verb-Object (SVO) 


(speaking without listening or hearing another 


sentences with misplaced or absent verb forms. 


speak). Experiment 2 used 12 of the 13 aphasic 


They also have difficulty comprehending and pro-


patients and 20 normal controls, and asked ques-


ducing non-canonical sentences; that is, sentences 


tions regarding underlying neural mechanisms for 


in which the Noun Phrases (NP) have been moved 


the speech entrainment effect. Those results showed 


out of their canonical order, as they are in passives. 


that during speech entrainment there was bilateral 


Treatment of Underlying Forms (TUF) (Thompson, 


cortical activation at the juncture of the anterior 


2001) is a linguistic approach that focuses on train-


insula and Brodmann areas 47, 37, and in the left 


ing complex, non-canonical sentences. The training 


middle temporal gyrus unilaterally. Experiment 3 


hierarchy proceeds from complex to simpler sen-


was a treatment program in which all of the patients 


tence structures. The example below illustrates how 


from Experiment 1 participated in 6 weeks of speech 


the clinician facilitates simpler sentence construc-


entrainment therapy. At the end of the treatment 


tion from a more complex form. The stimulus is the 


phase and for 1 to 6 weeks afterward, the aphasic 


sentence, “It was the artist who the thief chased.” 


patients were able to increase their speech output by 


a factor of >2, producing a greater variety of words 


1.  Present cards (read aloud and repeat): [the thief] 


with and without entrainment. The authors felt that 


[chased] [the artist] [it was] [who]


these preliminary results suggest that using speech 


2.  Point to the verb, “This is  chase,  it is the action.” 


entrainment therapeutically can improve speech pro-


Point to the theme, “This is the  thief,  the person duction in people with a nonfluent, Broca’s aphasia. 


doing the chasing.” “This is the  artist,  the artist The authors believe that speech entrainment is effec-is the person who is chased.” 


tive because it provides an external mechanism via 


3. The  who card is placed next to the theme card 


the visual modality which compensates for the dam-


(the artist). Say, “To make a sentence,  who  is 


age to Broca’s area. They do caution, however, that 


added next to the artist because the artist is the 


speech entrainment was not effective in all cases, 


person who was chased.” [the thief] [chased] 


which implied that motor programming still needs to 


[the artist] [who]. 


be partially preserved for it to have an effect because 


4.  The theme (the artist) and the  who cards are 


they feel that Broca’s area is responsible for “uniting 


moved to the sentence initial position. “To make 


language and articulatory processing for speech pro-


the correct sentence, these words are moved to 


duction” (p. 3827). This study also lends support to 


the beginning of the sentence.” [the artist] [who] 


the use of articulatory cueing in people with aphasia 


[the thief] [chased]. 


and helps explain why it can be so effective with cer-


5. The  it was  card is added to the beginning of the tain patients. However, adding the audio (speaking 


sentence. The examiner states: “It was  is added 


the word aloud) to the visual (just the articulatory 


to the sentence because it was the artist who 


cue) improved speech fluency and variety. As noted 


the thief chased.” The client reads and repeats: 


above, this suggests that the motor plans remain 


[it was] [the artist] [who] [the thief] [chased]. 


intact in these patients, which is another helpful 


6.  Sentence parts are rearranged in active sentence 


insight for planning treatment. 


form together with the  it was  and  who  cards, and the steps are repeated with the cards moving to form the target sentence. 


Treatment of Underlying Forms (TUF)


verb network strengthening 


This therapeutic approach was developed to treat 


Treatment (vnesT)


people with poor sentence comprehension and pro-


duction; that is, agrammatism commonly associated 


 Background


with the nonfluent, Broca’s aphasia. Individuals with 


agrammatism have a degraded grammatical struc-


Verb Network Strengthening Treatment (VNeST) is 


ture, based on the type of sentences that they pro-


designed to improve the lexical retrieval abilities in 


  274  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch individuals with aphasia. The goal of VNeST is to 


agent-patient pairs that are personally relevant in 


strengthen the semantic network of verbs by stimu-


order to activate their own personal memories and 


lating lexical retrieval of words and concepts associ-


knowledge of events. They are also encouraged to 


ated with the verbs. The technique was introduced 


produce agent-patient combinations that are specific 


in 2009 and has been used with individuals with 


in order to strengthen semantic knowledge of the 


mild and moderate aphasia. Most of the treatment 


verb and verb network. 


research on VNeST has been investigated using par-


ticipants with nonfluent aphasia; however, people 


 Methodology


with fluent aphasia have also benefited from the 


treatment (Edmunds, 2016). 


VNeST consists of several steps that revolve around 


VNeST is built on the idea that verbs and their 


an action word (verb) provided by the clinician. To 


“networks” are central in the production of sen-


administer VNeST, the clinician will need a list of 


tences. Verbs are connected to nouns in relation to 


transitive verbs (i.e., verbs that require a subject and 


the thematic roles that the nouns play in the sen-


an object) and pen and paper (or, as many clinicians 


tence. Nouns can serve as the performer (the agent) 


prefer, index cards). Below are the steps for admin-


and the receiver (the patient) of the action. In lon-


istering VNeST. The reader is referred to Edmunds 


ger sentence productions, nouns assume additional 


(2014) for a detailed tutorial on the VNeST protocol. 


thematic roles by specifying, for example, where the 


action occurred (location) or the tool the agent used 


Step 1. 


in performing the action (instrument). The follow-


n  Write down a transitive verb (e.g., “write”) 


ing sentence illustrates thematic roles in a simple 


and place it in front of the client. 


canonical sentence: The girl (agent) washed (action) 


n  Write down the words “who” and “what” on 


the dog (patient) in the backyard (location) with the 


either side of the verb in canonical order. 


hose (instrument). 


n  Ask the client to provide an agent (who) 


and a corresponding patient (what) by 


 Rationale


saying,  “Tell me someone who writes 


 something.”  Alternatively, the clinician may 


VNeST is based on the idea that many of our memo-


begin by eliciting the patient (what) and 


ries are of events and experiences. Episodic mem-


then the agent (who). 


ories consist of actions involving persons and/or 


n  Write down the client’s responses. 


objects (i.e., nouns) that play a thematic role in 


n  If needed, provide minimal cues by 


relation to the action. The thematic roles form a 


rephrasing the prompt (e.g.,  “Can you 


network around the verb, referred to as a “verb 


 think of someone who writes a newspaper 


network.” There is evidence that “verb networks” 


 articles for their job? ), or maximal cues by 


have a neurological basis and that the components 


writing down four occupations that include 


of the network are neurologically wired together. 


one correct response and three foils, and 


Findings from clinical research show that verbs and 


request that the client select the one that 


their related agent and patient thematic roles neu-


is appropriate to the verb (e.g., journalist, 


rally co-activate each other so that when verbs are 


farmer, cashier, and sports commentator). 


retrieved, they prime/facilitate retrieval of themati-


n  Repeat Step 1 until the client generates 


cally related agent and patient nouns (Edmunds, 


3 or more agent-patient combinations, as 


2016). The rationale behind VNeST is that by activat-


shown in Figure 10–3. 


ing the “verb network,” clients will be able to more 


accurately communicate their ideas in sentences 


Step 2. 


and conversations. Activation of the verb network 


n  Instruct the client to read each agent-


in VNeST is accomplished by systematically elicit-


patient combinations aloud at least 3 times 


ing a variety of agent-patient thematic roles around 


(e.g., “journalist writes newspaper article,” 


a target verb. Clients are encouraged to generate 


“senator writes laws,” and “professor 


 


10.  seLected treAtMent progrAMs And ApproAches  275


Who


Who


newspaper 


journalist


article


writ


ri e


senator


laws


professor


test questions


Figure 10–3.  vnest example 1. 


writes test questions”). It is not necessary 


horses” (inappropriate patient), “An infant 


for the client to produce the correct 


writes a newspaper article” (Inappropriate 


morphological inflections or function 


agent), and “a newspaper article writes a 


words when reading the scenarios aloud. 


journalist” (thematic reversal). 


n  After reading each sentence, ask the client 


Step 3. 


whether the sentence made sense. 


n  Ask the client to select one of the agent-


n  Perform the instructions provided for 


patient combinations generated in Step 1 


Step 4 to each of the other agent-patient 


to discuss in more detail. 


pairs worked on in treatment. 


n  Move the selected pair of cards away from 


the other cards. 


Step 5. 


n  Lay down “where,” “why,” and “when” 


n  Asks the client to say what verb he or she 


cards one at a time and ask the client 


has been working on in treatment. 


the corresponding wh-questions. Write 


down the client’s answers, as shown in 


Step 6. 


Figure 10–4. 


n  Repeat Step 1 without providing cues or 


Step 4. 


support. 


n  Remove all cards from the table. 


n  Read 4 active (SVO) sentences containing 


visual Action Therapy (vAT)


the target verb. One sentences should be 


semantically correct (e.g., “A journalist 


 Background


writes a newspaper article”) whereas 


the other three should be semantically 


Visual Action Therapy (VAT) is a nonverbal thera-


incorrect, for example, “A journalist writes 


peutic approach to aphasia, which is appropriate for 


  276  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch newspaper 


journalist


write


article


Where


in the office


Why


report current 


events


When


in the evenings


Figure 10–4. vnest example 2. 


patients with severe impairment (i.e., global apha-


prior to distal gestures (hand-finger movements). 


sia). Patients are trained to generate and produce 


As a consequence, the initial program was revised 


hand/arm gestures that represent objects. The intent 


to include a new hierarchy of phases, which are 


is to ultimately improve the patient’s functional com-


discussed below. 


munication. (Helm-Estabrooks & Albert, 2004). For 


example, if a patient is thirsty, he or she will pro-


 Treatment Phases


duce a gesture that represents drinking from a cup. 


The VAT takes advantage of preserved skills, such 


There are three phases to the VAT treatment pro-


as nonlinguistic, visuospatial, and memory skills, 


gram: proximal limb VAT (hand-arm movements, 


and the ability to spontaneously use overlearned 


such as motor activity of sawing), distal limb VAT 


gestures. The patient’s motivation and ability to 


(hand-finger movements, such as turning a screw-


attend to tasks will assist in a successful response 


driver), and oral VAT such as blowing. The stimuli 


to intervention. 


used for all three phases include real objects, line 


This treatment program utilizes “alternate sym-


drawings, and action pictures of a figure using the 


bol systems” (Helm-Estabrooks & Albert, 2004). 


object. The patient moves sequentially through a 


Researchers discovered that patients with global 


hierarchy of nine steps that progress from simple 


aphasia still had intact abilities to conceptualize 


(matching objects to pictures) to complex (using 


(Gardner, Zurif, Berry, & Baker, 1976). For some 


gestures to represent hidden objects). The clini-


of these patients, they had the cognitive abilities 


cian tracks ongoing progress to determine if the 


needed to produce language that led Helm and 


patient is ready to progress to the next level or 


Benson (1978) to create the initial VAT program. 


phase (Helm-Estabrooks & Albert, 2004). The nine 


Helm-Estabrooks, Ramsberger, Brownell, and Albert 


steps are as follows and proceed in a hierarchical 


(1989) found that it was easier for patients to pro-


progression from 1 to 9: (1) matching pictures and 


duce proximal gestures (hand and arm movements) 


objects; (2) object-use training; (3) action picture 


 


10.  seLected treAtMent progrAMs And ApproAches  277


demonstration; (4) following action picture com-


cards to teach two-gesture combinations, such 


mands; (5) pantomimed gesture demonstration; (6) 


as “man drinking.” 


pantomimed gesture recognition; (7) pantomimed 


3.  To ease some of the patient’s burden of commu-


gesture production; (8) representation of hidden 


nication, a family member or other communica-


objects demonstration; and (9) production of ges-


tion partner may be brought into the therapy 


tures for hidden objects. 


sessions. The patient is first shown an illustra-


tion of an object or concept that is new. They 


preparation for Training.   Clinicians will need:


are then asked to use a gesture to communicate 


the illustration that the family member must 


1.  15 real objects (toys do not count)


identify. The clinician’s job is to monitor and 


2.  Shaded line drawings of those objects


review progress, so the patient and their com-


3.  Action pictures of a simple figure using those 


munication partner are able to identify areas of 


objects


weakness that still need improvement. This can 


be accomplished by carefully charting data or 


Suggestions for proximal limb gestures may include 


videotaping sessions and reviewing them with 


motions used to represent paint stick, gavel, saw, 


both communication partners. 


and iron. Distal limb gestures may include motions 


using a screwdriver, teaspoon, telephone, artist’s 


fine paintbrush, and tea bag, and so forth. For oral 


references


gestures, motions may involve postures to indicate a 


whistle, flower, lollipop, and straw, plus others. For 


a complete overview of the nine steps of VAT, see 


Antonucci, S. M. (2009). Use of semantic feature analy-


Helm-Estabrooks and Albert (2004). 


sis in group aphasia treatment.  Aphasiology,  23(7–8), 854–866. 


Measuring outcomes.     Pre- and post-VAT mea-Basso, A. (2003).  Aphasia and its therapy.  New York, surements are suggested. The Boston Assessment 


NY: Oxford University Press. 


of Severe Aphasia  (Helm-Estabrooks, Ramsberger, 


Beeson, P. M. (1999). Treating acquired writing impair-


Nicholas, & Morgan, 1989), and the Nonvocal Com-


ment: Strengthening grapheme representations. 


munication   Scale (NCS) (Borod, Fitzpatrick, Helm-Aphasiologoy,  13, 767–785. 


Beeson, P. M., Hirsch, F. M., & Rewega, M. A. (2002). 


Estabrooks, & Goodglass, 1989) have been used 


Successful single-word writing treatment: Experi-


pre- and post-VAT. The clinician can also use the 


mental analyses of fours cases.  Aphasiology,  16, Communication Questionnaire, which has two com-473–491. 


ponents, Expressing Self and Understanding Infor-


Beeson, P. M., Rising, K., Kim, E. S., & Rapcsak, S. 


mation (Helm-Estabrooks, 1996). 


Z. (2010). A treatment sequence for phonological 


alexia/agraphia.  Journal of Speech, Language, and 


vAT Follow-Up Treatment.     Helm-Estabrooks and Hearing Research,  53, 450–468. 


Albert (2004) suggest several steps following suc-


Beeson, P. M., Rising, K., & Volk, J. (2003). Writing cessful outcome of VAT:


treatment for severe aphasia: Who benefits.  Jour-


 nal of Speech, Language, and Hearing Research,  46, 1.  The Amer-Ind Code program, which has been 


1038–1060. 


modified by Skelly (1979) for patients with 


Benson, D. F., & Ardilia, A. (1996).  Aphasia: A clinical perspective.  New York, NY: Oxford University Press. 


aphasia is based on Native American hand sig-


Berthier, M. L. (2005). Poststroke aphasia: Epidemi-


nals. Thirty additional gestures are taught. Such 


ology, pathophysiology and treatment.  Drugs and 


gestures may be used to communicate functional 


 Aging,  22(2), 163–182. 


needs, such as “bathroom” and “sleep.” Refer to 


Beukelman, D. R., Fager, S., Ball, L., & Dietz, A. (2007). 


Rao (1994) for a recent review of this method. 


AAC for adults with acquired neurological condi-


2.  PACE (Davis & Wilcox, 1981; Helm-Estabrooks 


tions: A review.  Alternative and Augmentative Com-


& Albert, 2004) suggest using the PACE photo 


 munication,  23, 230–242. 


  278  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Bhogal, S. K., Teasell, R., & Speechley, M. (2003). Inten-therapy in chronic non-fluent aphasia.  Topics in Stroke sity of aphasia therapy, impact on recovery.  Stroke, Rehabilitation,  17, 423–431. 


 34, 987. 


Cherney, L. R., Patterson, J. P., Raymer, A., Frymark, 


Boles, L. (1998). Conducting conversation: A case study 


T., & Schooling, T. (2008). Evidence-based system-


using the spouse in aphasia treatment.  ASHA SID 2 


atic review: Effects of intensity of treatment and 


 Newsletter. Neurophysiology and Neurogenic Speech 


constraint-induced language therapy for individuals 


 and Language Disorders, 24–31. 


with stroke-induced aphasia.  Journal of Speech, Lan-


Borod, J., Fitzpatrick, R., Helm-Estabrooks, N., & Good-guage, and Hearing Research,  51, 2282–2299. 


glass, H. (1989). The relationship between limb 


Coelho, C. A., Sinotte, M. P., & Duffy, J. R. (2008). 


apraxia and the spontaneous use of communica-


Schuell’s stimulation approach to rehabilitation. In 


tive gesture in aphasia.  Brain and Cognition,  10, R. Chapey (Ed.),  Language intervention strategies 


121–131. 


 in aphasia and related neurogenic communication 


Boyle, M. (2004). Semantic feature analysis treatment 


 disorders (5th ed.). Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Wil-for anomia in two fluent aphasia syndromes.  Ameri-


liams & Wilkins. 


 can Journal of Speech-Language Pathology,  13(3), Darley, F. L. (1972). The efficacy of language rehabili-236–249. 


tation in aphasia.  Journal of Speech and Hearing 


Brookshire, R. H. (1992).  An introduction to neuro-


 Research,  37, 3–21. 


 genic communication disorders (4th ed.). St. Louis, Davis, G. A. (2000).  Aphasiology: Disorders and clini-MO: Mosby Year Book. 


 cal practice.  Needham Heights, MA: Allyn & Bacon. 


Brookshire, R. H. (1994). Group studies of treatment 


Davis, G. A. (2007).  Aphasiology: Disorders and clinifor adults with aphasia: Efficacy, effectiveness and 


 cal practice (2nd ed.). Boston, MA: Allyn & Bacon. 


believability.  ASHA Special Interest Divisions: Neuro-Davis, G. A., & Wilcox, M. J. (1981). Incorporating 


 physiology and Neurogenic Speech and Language 


parameters of natural conversation in aphasia treat-


 Disorders,  4, 5–13. 


ment. In R. Chapey (Ed.),  Language intervention 


Chapey, R. (1994).  Language intervention strategies in strategies in adult aphasia.  Baltimore, MD: Lippin-adult aphasia (3rd ed.). Baltimore, MD: Lippincott cott Williams & Wilkins. 


Williams & Wilkins. 


Douglas, J., Brown, L., & Barry, S. (2002). Is aphasia Chapey, R. (2001).  Language intervention strategies in therapy effective? Exploring the evidence in system-aphasia and related neurogenic communication 


atic reviews.  Brain Impairment,  3(1), 17–27. 


 disorders (4th ed.). Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Wil-Duffy, J. R., & Coelho, C. A. (2001). Schuell’s stimulation liams & Wilkins. 


approach to rehabilitation. In R. Chapey (Ed.),  Lan-


Chapey, R., Duchan, J. F., Elman, R. J., Garcia, L. J., 


 guage intervention strategies in aphasia and related 


Kagan, A., Lyon, J. G., . . . Mackie, N. (2008). Life-


 neurogenic communication disorders (4th ed.). Phil-participation approach to aphasia: A statement of 


adelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. 


values for the future. In R. Chapey (Ed.),  Language 


Duffy, R. J., & Ulrich, S. R. (1976). A comparison of intervention strategies in aphasia and related neu-impairments in verbal comprehension, speech, 


 rogenic communication disorders (5th ed.). Phila-


reading, and writing in adult aphasics.  Journal of 


delphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. 


 Speech and Hearing Disorders,  41, 110–119. 


Chapey, R., Rigrodsky, S., & Morrison, E. B. (1976). 


Edmunds L. A. (2014). Tutorial for Verb Network 


Divergent semantic behavior in aphasia.  Journal of 


Strengthening Treatment (VNeST): Detailed descrip-


 Speech and Hearing Disorders,  19, 664–677. 


tion of the treatment protocol with corresponding 


Cherney, L. R. (1995). Efficacy of oral reading in the 


theoretical rationale.  Perspectives on Neurophysiol-


treatment of two patients with chronic Broca’s apha-


 ogy and Neurogenic Speech and Language Disor-


sia.  Topics in Stroke Rehabilitation,  2, 57–67. 


 ders,  24(3), 78–88. 


Cherney, L. R. (2004). Aphasia, alexia, and oral reading. 


Edmunds L. A. (2016). A review of Verb Network 


 Topics in Stroke Rehabilitation,  11(1), 22–36. 


Strengthening Treatment: Theory, methods, results, 


Cherney, L. R. (2010a). Oral reading for language in 


and clinical implications.  Topics in Language Disor-


aphasia: Impact of aphasia severity on cross-modal 


 ders,  36(2), 123–135. 


outcomes in chronic non-fluent aphasia.  Seminars 


Elman, R. J. (2000, November).  Language disorders in 


 in Speech and Language,  31, 42–51. 


 adult grand rounds: Life participation approaches to 


Cherney, L. R. (2010b). Oral reading for language in 


 aphasia. Presented to the American Speech-Language-aphasia: Evaluating the efficacy of computer-delivered 


Hearing Association Convention, Washington, DC. 


 


10.  seLected treAtMent progrAMs And ApproAches  279


Elman, R., & Bernstein-Ellis, E. (1999). The efficacy Helm-Estabrooks, N. (1996). Communication Question-of group communication treatment in adults with 


naire. In N. Helm-Estabrooks & M. Albert,  Manual of chronic aphasia.  Journal of Speech, Language, and 


 aphasia and aphasia therapy (pp.188–189). Austin, Hearing Research,  42, 411–419. 


TX: Pro-Ed. 


Fink, R. B., Bartlett, M. R., Lowery, J. S., Linebarger, M. 


Helm-Estabrooks, N. (2001).  Cognitive Linguistic Quick C., & Schwartz, M. F. (2008). Aphasic speech with  


 Test.  San Antonio, TX: Psychological Corp. 


and without SentenceShaper: Two methods for 


Helm-Estabrooks, N., & Albert, M. (2004).  Manual of assessing informativeness.  Aphasiology,  22(7–8), aphasia and aphasia therapy (2nd ed.). Austin, TX: 679–690. 


Pro-Ed. 


Fink, R. B., Brecher, A., Schwartz, M. F., & Robey, 


Helm-Estabrooks, N., & Nicholas, M. (2000).  Sentence R.R. (2002). A computer-implemented protocol for 


 production program for aphasia.  Austin, TX: Pro-Ed. 


treatment of naming disorders: Evaluation of cli-


Helm-Estabrooks, N., & Nicholas, M. (2002).  Narrative nician-guided and partially self-guided instruction. 


 story cards. Austin, TX: Pro-Ed. 


 Aphasiology,  16, 1061–1086. 


Helm-Estabrooks, N., Ramsberger, G., Brownell, H., & 


Fink, R. B., Brecher, A., Sobel, P., & Schwartz, M. F. (2005). 


Albert, M. (1989). Distal versus proximal movement 


Computer-assisted treatment of word retrieval defi-


in limb apraxia [Abstract].  Journal of Clinical and 


cits in aphasia.  Aphasiology,  19, 943–954. 


 Experimental Neuropsychology,  7, 608. 


Fridriksson, J., Hubbard, H., Hudspeth, I., Grace, S., Hol-Helm-Estabrooks, N., Ramsberger, G., Nicholas, M., 


land, A. L., Bonhila, L., . . . Rorden, C. (2012). Speech 


& Morgan, A. (1989).  Boston Assessment of Severe 


entrainment enables patients with Broca’s aphasia 


 Aphasia.  Austin, TX: Pro-Ed. 


to produce fluent speech.  Brain,  135, 3815–3829. 


Holland, A. (1988).  Conversational coaching in apha-


Gardner, H., Zurif, E. B., Berry, T., & Baker, E. H. (1976). 


 sia.  Paper presented at the Deep South Conference Visual communication in aphasia.  Neuropsycholo-on Communicative Disorders, Baton Rouge, LA. 


 gia,  14, 275–292. 


Holland, A. (1999).  Counseling adults with neurogenic Garrett, M. F. (1988). Processes in language production. 


 communication disorder [Videotape]. Rockville, MD: In F. J. Newmeyer (Ed.),  Lingusitics: The Cambridge 



OceanofPDF.com

Acquired Language Disorders: A Case-Based Approach, Third Edition
    
    
    
    
  


  























American Speech-Language-Hearing Association. 


 Survey: 111. Language: Psychological and biologi-


Holland, A. L., Weinberg, P., & Dittelman, J. (2012). 


 cal aspects.  Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University How to use apps clinically in the treatment of apha-Press. 


sia.  Seminars in Speech and Language,  33, 223– 


Gleason, J. B., Goodglass, H., Green, E., Ackerman, 


233. 


N., & Hyde, M. R. (1975). The retrieval of syntax in 


Hoodin, R. B., & Thompson, C. K. (1983). Facilitation of Broca’s aphasia.  Brain and Language,  2, 451–471. 


verbal labeling in adult aphasia by gestural, verbal, 


Goldstein, K. (1942).  After effects of brain-injuries in or verbal plus gestural training.  Clinical Aphasiol-war: Their evaluation and treatment.  New York, 


 ogy,  13, 62–64. 


NY: Grune & Stratton. 


Hopper, T., Holland, A., & Rewega, M. (2002). Conver-


Goodglass, H., & Kaplan, E. (1983).  Boston Diagnostic sational coaching: Treatment outcomes and future 


 Aphasia Examination.  Hagerstown, MD: Lippincott 


directions.  Aphasiology,  16(7), 745–761. 


Williams & Wilkins. 


Ireland, C., & Wootten, G. (1996). Time to talk: Coun-Greener, J., Enderby, P., & Whurr, R. (1999, December). 


seling for people with dysphasia.  Disability and 


Speech and language therapy for aphasia follow- 


 Rehabilitation,  18(11), 585–591. 


ing stroke (Cochrane Review). In  The Cochrane 


Jenkins, J., Jimnez-Pabon, E., Shaw, R., & Sefer, J. 


 Library  (Issue 4). Oxford: BMJ Books/Update 


(1975).  Schuell’s aphasia in adults (2nd ed.). New Software. 


York, NY: Harper & Row. 


Grossman, M. (1981). A bird is a bird is a bird: Making 


Jokel, R., Cupit, J., Rochon, E., & Leonard, C. (2009). 


reference within and without superordinate catego-


Relearning lost vocabulary in nonfluent progressive 


ries.  Brain and Language,  12, 313–331. 


aphasia with MossTalk Words®.  Aphasiology,  23(2), Guilford, J. P. (1967).  The nature of human intelli-175–191. 


 gence.  New York, NY: McGraw-Hill. 


Kagan, A., & Gailey, G. (1993). Functional is not enough: Helm, N. A., & Benson, D. F. (1978).  Visual action Training conversation partners in aphasia. In A. Hol-therapy for global aphasia.  Paper presented at the land & M. Forbes (Eds.),  Aphasia treatment: World annual meeting of the Academy of Aphasia, Chi-perspectives (pp. 199–226). San Diego, CA: Singular cago, IL. 


Publishing. 


 280  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Kaplan, E., Goodglass, H., & Weintraub, S. (2000). 


aphasia therapy.  Neuropsychological Rehabilitation, Boston Naming Test.  Philadelphia, PA: Lea & 


 5, 67–92. 


Febiger. 


Lindfors, J. W. (1987 ).  Children’s language and learn-Katz, R. (2008). Computer applications in aphasia treat-


 ing.  Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall. 


ment. In R. Chapey (Ed.),  Language intervention 


Linebarger, M. C., McCall, D., Virata, T., & Berndt, R. S. 


 strategies in aphasia and related neurogenic com-


(2007). Widening the temporal window: Processing 


 munication disorders (5th ed., pp. 852–876). Phila-support in the treatment of aphasic language pro-


delphia, PA Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. 


duction.  Brain and Language,  100, 53–68. 


Kearns, K. P. (1985). Response elaboration training 


Linebarger, M. C., Romania, J. R., Fink, R. B., Bartlett, for patient initiated utterances. In R. H. Brookshire 


M. R., & Schwartz, M. F. (2008). Building on residual (Ed.),  Clinical aphasiology conference proceedings 


speech: A portable processing prosthesis for apha-


(pp. 196–204). Minneapolis, MN: BRK. 


sia.  Journal of Rehabilitation Research and Develop-


Kearns, K. P. (1990). Broca’s aphasia. In L. L. LaPointe 


 ment,  45, 1401–1414. 


(Ed.),  Aphasia and related neurogenic language 


Linebarger, M. C., Schwartz, M. F., & Kohn, S. E. (2001). 


 disorders.  New York, NY: Thieme Medical. 


Computer-based training of language production: 


Kearns, K. P., & Potechin, G. (1988). The generaliza-


An exploratory study.  Neuropsychological Rehabili-


tion of response elaboration training effects. In T. 


 tation,  11, 57–96. 


Prescott (Ed.),  Clinical aphasiology (pp. 223–246). 


Linebaugh, C., & Lehner, L. (1977). Cuing hierarchies Boston, MA: College-Hill Press. 


and word retrieval: A treatment program. In R. H. 


Kearns, K. P., Simmon, N. N., & Sisterhen, C. (1982). 


Brookshire (Ed.),  Clinical aphasiology: Conferences 


Gestural sign (Amer-Ind) as a facilitator of verbaliza-


 proceedings.  Minneapolis, MN: BRK. 


tion in patients with aphasia.  Clinical Aphasiology, Linebaugh, C. W., Pryor, A. P., & Margulies, C. P. (1983). 


 12, 183–191. 


A comparison of picture descriptions by family mem-


Kearns, K. P., & Yedor, K. (1991). An alternating treat-bers of aphasic patients to aphasic and nonaphasic 


ments comparison of loose training and a con-


listeners. In R. H. Brookshire (Ed.),  Clinical aphasiol-vergent treatment strategy. In T. E. Prescott (Ed.), 


 ogy conference proceedings.  Minneapolis, MN: BRK. 


 Clinical Aphasiology: Vol. 20 (pp. 223–238). Austin, Lyon, J. G., Cariski, D., Keisler, L., Rosenbek, J., Levine, TX: Pro-Ed. 


R., Kumpula, J., . . . Blanc, M. (1997) Communica-


Kertesz, A. (2006).  Western Aphasia Battery-Revised. 


tion partners: Enhancing participation in life and 


San Antonio, TX: Pearson Education. 


communication for adults with aphasia in natural 


Kirmess, M., & Lind, M. (2011). Spoken language pro-


settings.  Aphasiology,  11(7), 693–708. 


duction as outcome measurement following con-


Marques P., Soares J. M., Alves V., & Sousa N. (2013). 


straint-induced language therapy.  Aphasiology,  25, BrainCAT — a tool for automated and combine func-1207–1238. 


tional magnetic resonance imaging and diffusion 


Kirmess, M., & Maher, L. M. (2010). Constraint-induced tensor imaging brain connectivity analysis.  Fron-language therapy in early aphasia rehabilitation. 


 tiers in Human Neuroscience,  7, 794. 


 Aphasiology,  24, 725–736. 


Marshall, R. C. (2008). Early management of Wernicke’s 


Kladouchou, V., Papathanasiou, I., Efstratiadou, E. A., 


aphasia: A context-based approach. In R. Chapey 


Christaki, V., & Hilari, K. (2017). Treatment integ-


(Ed.),  Language intervention strategies in aphasia 


rity of elaborated sematic feature analysis aphasia 


 and related neurogenic communication disorders 


therapy delivered in individual and group settings. 


(5th ed.). Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & 


 International Journal of Language and Communi-


Wilkins. 


 cation Disorders,  52(6), 733–749. 


McCall, D. (2012). Steps to success with technology for 


Lasker, J., & Beukelman, D. R. (1999). Peers’ percep-


individuals with aphasia.  Seminars in Speech and 


tions of storytelling by an adult with aphasia.  Apha-


 Language,  33, 234–242. 


 siology,  13, 857–869. 


McCall, D, Virata, T., Linebarger, M. D., & Berndt, R. S. 


Lee, J. B., & Cherney, L. R. (2008). The changing “face” 


(2009). Integrating technology and targeted treat-


of aphasia.  Perspectives on Neurophysiology and 


ment to improve narrative production in aphasia: 


 Neurogenic Speech and Language Disorders,  18, A case study.  Aphasiology,  23, 438–461. 


15–23. 


Meinzer, M., Djundja, D., Barthel, G., Elbert, T., & Rock-Lesser, R., & Algar, L. (1995). Towards combing the 


stroh, B. (2005). Long-term stability of improved 


cognitive neuropsychological and the pragmatic in 


language functions in chronic aphasia after con-


 


10.  seLected treAtMent progrAMs And ApproAches  281


straint-induced aphasia therapy.  Stroke: Journal of 


Robey, R. R. (1994). The efficacy of treatment of apha-


 American Heart Association,  36, 1462–1466. 


sic persons: A meta-analysis.  Brain and Language, Menn, L., Ramsberger, G., & Helm-Estabrooks, N. (1994). 


 47, 582–608. 


A linguistic communication measure for aphasic nar-


Robey, R. R. (1998). A meta-analysis of clinical out-


ratives.  Aphasiology,  8, 343–359. 


comes in the treatment of aphasia.  Journal of Speech 


Meyers, J. E., & Meyers, K. R. (1995).  Rey complex figure and Hearing Research,  41, 172–187. 


 test and recognition trial. Lutz, FL: Psychological Robey, R., Schultz, M., Crawford, A., & Sinner, C. (1999). 


Assessment Resources. 


Single-subject clinical outcome research: Design, 


Nicholas, L., & Brookshire, R. (1995). Presence, com-


data, effect sizes, and analyses.  Aphasiology,  13, pleteness and accuracy of main concepts in the 


445–473. 


connected speech of non-brain damaged adults and 


Schuell, H. (1974). The treatment of aphasia. In L. F. 


adults with aphasia.  Journal of Speech, and Hearing 


Sies (Ed.),  Aphasia theory and therapy: Selected lec-


 Research,  38(1), 145–156. 


 tures and papers of Hildred Schuell.  Baltimore, MD: Orjada, S. A., & Beeson, P. M. (2005). Concurrent treat-University Park Press. 


ment for reading and spelling in aphasia.  Aphasiol-


Schuell, H., Carroll, V., & Street, B. S. (1955). Clinical ogy,  19, 341–351. 


treatment of aphasia.  Journal of Speech and Hear-


Paggiaro, A., Birbaumer, N., Cavinato, M., Turco, C., 


 ing Disorders,  20, 43–53. 


Formaggio, E., Del Felice, A., . . . Piccione, F. (2016). 


Schuell, H., Jenkins, J., & Jiménez-Pabón, E. (1964). 


Magnetoencephalography in stroke recovery and 


 Aphasia in adults: Diagnosis, prognosis and treat-


rehabilitation.  Frontiers in Neurology,  7, 35. https://


 ment.  New York, NY: Harper & Row. 


doi.org/10.3389/fneur.2016.00035


Shelton, J. R., Weinrich, M., McCall, D., & Cox, D. 


Pashek, G. (1997). A case study of gesturally cued nam-


M. (1996). Differentiating globally aphasic patients: 


ing in aphasia: Dominant versus nondominant hand 


Data from in-depth language assessments and pro-


training.  Journal of Communication Disorders,  30, duction training using CVC.  Aphasiology,  10, 319– 


349–366. 


342. 


Peach, R. K. (2008). Global aphasia: Identification 


Shewan, C., & Kertesz, A. (1984). Effects of speech- 


and management. In R. Chapey (Ed.),  Language 


language treatment in recovery from aphasia.  Brain 


 intervention strategies in aphasia and related neu-


 and Language,  23, 272–299. 


 rogenic communication disorders (5th ed.). Phila-


Shuster, L. I. (2018). Considerations for the use of 


delphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. 


neuroimaging technologies for predicting recov-


Picard, N., & Strick, P. L. (1996). Motor areas of the ery of speech and language in aphasia.  American  


medial wall: A review of their location and func-


 Journal of Speech-Language Pathology,  27, 291– 


tional activation.  Cerebral Cortex,  6, 342–353. 


305. 


Pulvermuller, F., Neininger, B., Elbert, T., Mohr, B., 


Simmons-Mackie, N. (2008).  Social approaches to 


Rockstroh, B., Koebbel, P., & Taub, E., . . . (2001). 


 aphasia intervention.  In R. Chapey (Ed.),  Language Constraint-induced therapy of chronic aphasia after 


 intervention strategies in aphasia and related neu-


stroke.  Stroke,  32, 1621–1626. 


 rogenic communication disorders (5th ed., pp. 290–


Ramsberger, G., & Marie, B. (2007). Self-administered 318). Philadelphia, PA: Wolters Kluwer. 


cued naming therapy: A single participant investiga-


Skelly, M. (1979).  Amerind gestural code based on unition of a computer-based therapy program replicated 


 versal American Indian hand talk.  New York, NY: 


in four cases.  American Journal of Speech-Language 


Elsevier. 


 Pathology,  16, 343–358. 


Skelly, M., Schinsky, L., Smith, R., & Fust, R. S. (1974). 


Rao, P. R. (1994). Use of Amer-Ind code by persons 


American Indian (Amerind) Sign as a facilitation of 


with aphasia. In R. Chapey (Ed.),  Language inter-


verbalization for the oral verbal apraxic.  Journal of vention strategies in adult aphasia (pp. 359–367). 


 Speech and Hearing Disorders,  39, 445–456. 


Baltimore, MD: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. 


Smith, A. (1971). Objective indices of severity of 


Richards, K., Singletary, F., Gonzalez Rothi, L. J., & chronic aphasia in stroke patients.  Journal of Speech Koehler, S., & Crosson, B. (2002). Activation of 


 and Hearing Disorders,  36, 167–207. 


intentional mechanisms through utilization of non-


Steele, R. D., Kleczewska, M. K., Carlson, G. S., & Wein-symbolic movements in aphasia rehabilitation.  Jour-


rich, M. (1992). Computers in the rehabilitation of 


 nal of Rehabilitation Research and Development, 


chronic, severe aphasia: C-ViC 2.0 cross-modal stud-


 39, 445–454. 


ies.  Aphasiology,  6, 185–194. 


 282  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Steele, R. D., Weinrich, M., Wertz, R. T., Kleczewska, M. K., Wepman, J. (1972). Aphasia therapy: A new look.  Jour-


& Carlson, G. S. (1989). Computer-based visual com-


 nal of Speech and Hearing Disorders,  37, 203–214. 


munication in aphasia.  Neuropsychologia,  27, 409–426. 


Wepman, J. (1976). Aphasia: Language without thought 


Stokes, T., & Baer, D. M. (1977). An implicit technol-or thought without language.  ASHA,  18, 131–136. 


ogy of generalization.  Journal of Applied Behavior 


Wertz, R. T. (1984). Language disorders in adults: State 


 Analysis,  10, 349–367. 


of the clinical art. In A. Holland (Ed.),  Language 


Sutton, M. (2012, June 05). Aptitude: Apps to aid apha-


 disorders in adults. San Diego, CA: College-Hill 


sia.  ASHA Leader. 


Press. 


Szer, J. (1983). Video games as physiotherapy.  Medical Wertz, R. T., Collins, M. J., Weiss, D., Kurtzke, J. F., Friden, Journal of Australia,  1, 401–402. 


T., & Brookshire, R. H. (1981). Veterans Administra-


Thompson, C. K. (2001). Treatment of underlying 


tion cooperative study on aphasia: A comparison of 


forms: A linguistic specific approach for sentence 


individual and group treatment.  Journal of Speech 


production deficits in agrammatic aphasia. In R. 


 and Hearing Research,  24, 580–594. 


Chapey (Ed.),  Language intervention strategies in 


Wertz, R. T., & Irwin, W. H. (2001). Darley and the effi-aphasia and related neurogenic communication 


cacy of language rehabilitation in aphasia.  Aphasiol-


 disorders (4th ed., pp. 605–628). Philadelphia, PA: ogy,  15(3), 231–247. 


Lippincott Williams & Wilkins. 


Wertz, R. T., Weiss, D. G., Aten, J. L., Brookshire, R. H., Wambaugh, J. L., Mauszycki, S., & Wright, S. (2014). 


Garcia-Bunuel, L., & Holland, A. L. (1986). Compari-


Semantic feature analysis: Application to confron-


son of clinic, home, and deferred language treatment 


tation naming of actions in aphasia.  Aphasiology, for aphasia. A Veterans Administration Cooperative 


 28(1), 1–24. 


study.  Archives of Neurology,  43, 653–658. 


Webb, W. G., & Adler, R. K. (2008).  Neurology for Wiederholt, J. L., & Bryant, B. R. (2012).  Gray Oral the speech-language pathologist.  Philadelphia, PA: Reading Tests (5th ed.). Austin, TX: Pro-Ed. 


Elsevier. 


Wilcox, M. H., & Davis, G. (1977). Speech act analysis Wechsler, D. (1981).  The Wechsler Adult Intelligence 


of aphasic communication in individual and group 


 Scale. New York, NY: The Psychological Corporation. 


settings. In R. H. Brookshire (Ed.),  Clinical apha-


Wechsler, D. (1997).  Wechsler Memory Scale (3rd ed.). 


 siology conference proceedings (pp. 166–174). Min-San Antonio, TX: Psychological Corp. 


neapolis, MN: BRK. 


Weinrich, M., Steele, R. D., Carlson, G. S., Kleczewska, 


Wineburgh, L. F., & Small, S. L. (2004). Aphasia treat-M. K., Wertz, R. T., & Baker, E. (1989). Processing 


ment and the crossroads: A biological perspective . 


of visual syntax in a globally aphasic patient.  Brain ASHA Leader,  18, 6–7. 


 and Language,  36, 391–405. 


Zhang, Y., Wan, S. H., Wu, G. J., & Zhang, X. L. (2012). 


Weinrich, M., Steele, R. D., Kleczewska, M. K., Carlson, 


Magnetic resonance diffusion tensor imaging and 


G. S., Baker, E., & Wertz, R. T. (1989). Representation diffusion tensor tractography of human visual path-of “verbs” in a computerized visual communication 


way.  International Journal of Ophthalmology,  5(4), system.  Aphasiology,  3, 501–512. 


452–458. 





 Appendix A


CAse hIsTory ForM


Date of Evaluation: 


Client’s Name: 


Gender: 


Age: 


Date of Birth: 


Street Address: 


City: 


State: 


Zip: 


E-mail Address: 


Preferred Phone Number: 


Name/Address/Phone of Referral Source:


Has the client ever been examined in this center before? 


If so, when? 


Background Information


Date of Onset of Current Illness/Condition: 


Please describe any communication difficulties. 





283


 284  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch health and Medical history


Please list the patient’s/client’s past medical history:


Do you have any of the following? 


Hearing Loss 


YES 


NO


Vision Problems 


YES 


NO


Swallowing Problems 


YES 


NO


Heart Problems 


YES 


NO


Asthma 


YES NO


Allergies 


YES NO


COPD 


YES NO


Headaches 


YES NO


Seizure Disorder 


YES 


NO


Neuromuscular Problems 


YES 


NO


GI problems 


YES 


NO


History of Drug Abuse 


YES 


NO


History of Alcohol Abuse 


YES 


NO


History of Mental Illness 


YES 


NO


Other: 


Please list your current medications:


Please list any surgeries and their dates below:


If you ever had a prior speech, language, or cognitive evaluation examination please specify where, when, and type of assessment below:


educational history


Describe your educational status:


(Highest grade achieved, ever enrolled in a special class, grades repeated, special problems in school, if any, etc.)


 


AppendiX A.  cAse historY ForM  285


psychosocial and Family history


Please indicate your current marital status:


Single 


Married 


Civil Union 


Separated 


Divorced 


Widowed 


What is your previous or current occupation? 


List any children (names and ages):


Do you live alone or do you live with others? Please describe. 


What are your hobbies and interests? 


Information furnished by: 


Relationship to client: 






 Appendix B


seven doMAIns  


AssessMenT sUMMAry sheeT


1 = WNL; 2 = mild-moderate impaired; 3 = moderate-severe imp.; 4 = severe-profound imp.; CNT-Cannot Test


Expressive Language


1


2


3


4


CNT


Not Observed


Notes1


Automatic Speech


Repetition


Lexical Retrieval/Naming


Conversational Skills


Pragmatic Skills


Gestures


Speech


Rate


Intelligibility


Prosody


Articulation


Fluency of Speech Output


Auditory Comprehension


Answering Yes/No Questions


Executing Commands


At Paragraph Level


At Conversational Level


Object ID and Function


Reading/Spelling


Oral Reading


 continues





287


 288  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Appendix B.    continued


Reading/Spelling   continued


1


2


3


4


CNT


Not Observed


Notes1


Oral Spelling


Word-Level Comprehension


Sentence-Level Comprehension


Written Expression


Copying


Writing to Dictation


Self-Generated


Spelling


Drawing


Cognition


Attention


Visuospatial Skills


Memory


Executive Functions


Behavioral Symptoms


Level of Alertness


Deficit Awareness


Frustration


Emotional State


1Notes:  Include comments or details relevant to paraphasias, jargon, behavioral abnormalities, and so forth. 





 Appendix C


CognITIve-LIngUIsTIC 


evALUATIon


Name: _____________________________________________  Age: _________  Date: Primary Care Physician:  


Medical Diagnosis:  


Date of Incident:  


Condition Prior to Incident:  


Date of CT Scan/MRI: ___________________ Findings:  


Related Medical History:  








Medications:  


Examiner’s Name:  


Instructions:  Administer selected sections or all sections as appropriate for the client. Specific instructions are provided under each subheading. Make additional observations in the right-hand column. The client will need a pen or pencil to complete the writing portion of the evaluation. 


 Orientation and Awareness


Ask the client the following questions. Score a plus (+) or minus (–) for correct or incorrect responses. 


_______ What day is it? 


_______ What month is it? 


_______ What year is it? 


_______ What season is it? 


_______ What time is it? 


Copyright © 2021 Plural Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Permission to reproduce for clinical use granted. 





289


 290  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch _______ What state are we in? 


_______ What city are we in? 


_______ What county are we in? 


_______ Where do you live? 


_______ What is the name of this building? 


_______ Why are you in the hospital? 


_______ How long have you been here? 


_______ When did you have your accident? 


_______ What kind of problems do you have because of your accident? 


_______ What is my name? 


_______ What is my profession? 


_______ Who is your doctor? 


_______ About how much time has passed since we started talking together today? 


 Memory


 Immediate Memory.   Ask the client to repeat the following sequences or sentences. Score a plus (+) or minus (−) for correct or incorrect responses. 


_______ 0, 7, 4, 2  


_______ 8, 6, 0, 1, 3  


_______ 2, 9, 1, 4, 6, 5  


_______ Car, duck, ring, shoe  


_______ Rain, desk, ladder, horse, cake  


_______ The keys were found under the table. 


_______ He always reads the newspaper before he has breakfast. 


_______ After their victory, the baseball team had pizza and watched a movie. 


Ask the client to retell this short story:


_______  Helen had a birthday party at the petting zoo. Ten of her friends came. All the children laughed when a goat was found eating the cake and ice cream. 


Copyright © 2021 Plural Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Permission to reproduce for clinical use granted. 


 


AppendiX c.  cognitive-Linguistic evALuAtion  291


 Recent Memory.   Ask the client the following questions. Score a plus (+) or minus (−) for correct or incorrect responses. 


_______ What did you have for breakfast? 


_______ What did you do after dinner last night? 


_______ What did you do after breakfast this morning? 


_______ What else have you done today? 


_______ Have you had any visitors today or yesterday? 


_______ What other therapies do you receive? 


_______ Who is your doctor? 


_______ How long have you been a patient here? 


 Long-Term Memory.   Ask the client the following questions. Score a plus (+) or minus (−) for correct or incorrect responses. 


_______ Where were you born? 


_______ When is your birthday? 


_______ What is your husband’s/wife’s name? 


_______ How many children do you have? 


_______ How many grandchildren do you have? 


_______ Where did you used to work? 


_______ How much school did you complete? 


_______ Where did you grow up? 


_______ How many brothers and sisters do you have? 


 Auditory Processing and Comprehension


Ask the client the following questions. Score a plus (+) or minus (−) for correct or incorrect responses. 


_______ Is your last name Williams? 


_______ Is my name Jim? 


_______ Are you wearing glasses? 


_______ Do you live on the moon? 


_______ Have you had dinner yet? 


Copyright © 2021 Plural Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Permission to reproduce for clinical use granted. 


 292  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch _______ Do cows eat grass? 


_______ Do fish swim? 


_______ Do four quarters equal one dollar? 


_______ Are there 48 hours in a day? 


_______ Is Alaska part of the United States? 


 Problem Solving


Ask the client the following questions. Score a plus (+) or minus (–) for correct or incorrect responses. 


_______ What would you do if you locked your keys in your house? 


_______ What would you do if your mail did not get delivered? 


_______ What would you do if you could not find your doctor’s phone number? 


_______ What would you do if your TV stopped working? 


_______ What would you do if you forgot to put the milk away when you got home from the grocery store? 





 Logic, Reasoning, Inference


Ask the client what is wrong with these sentences. Score a plus (+) or minus (−) for correct or incorrect responses. 


_______ He put salt and pepper in his coffee. 


_______ Six plus one is eight. 


_______ I put my socks on over my shoes. 


_______ Hang up when the phone rings. 


_______ The dog had four kittens. 


Ask the client what these expressions mean. Score a plus (+) or minus (−) for correct or incorrect responses. 


_______ Haste makes waste. 


_______ An apple a day keeps the doctor away. 


_______ When it rains, it pours. 


_______ He’s a chip off the old block. 


_______ Beauty is only skin deep. 


Copyright © 2021 Plural Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Permission to reproduce for clinical use granted. 


 


AppendiX c.  cognitive-Linguistic evALuAtion  293


Ask the client the following questions. Score a plus (+) or minus (−) for correct or incorrect responses. 


_______ What is worn on your feet to keep you warm? 


_______ What has a bushy tail, climbs trees, and stores nuts? 


_______ What is thin and lightweight, used to wipe tears away, or used when you have a cold? 





_______ How are a sweater, pants, and a blouse alike? 


_______ How are orange juice, soda, and milk alike? 


 Thought Organization


Ask the client to answer the following questions or tasks. Score a plus (+) or minus (−) for correct or incorrect responses. 


_______ What does the word “affectionate” mean? 


_______ What does the word “deliver” mean? 


_______ What are the steps you follow to wash your hair? 


_______ What are the steps you follow to make your bed? 


_______ How would you plan a meal for two dinner guests? 


 Calculation


Ask the client to answer the following questions. Score a plus (+) or  minus (−) for correct or incorrect responses. 


_______  If you went to the mall and spent $38.00 in one store and $27.50 in another store, how much did you spend? 





_______  If tomatoes cost $1.50 per pound and you bought 2 pounds, how much did you spend on tomatoes? 





_______ If you went to the store with $15.00 and returned home with $11.75, how much did you spend? 





_______ If toothbrushes cost $3.00 each and you have $10.00, how many toothbrushes can you buy? 





Copyright © 2021 Plural Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Permission to reproduce for clinical use granted. 


 294  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch _______  If you have a doctor’s appointment at 10:30 and it takes you 30 minutes to get there, what time should you leave? 





 Reading and Visual Processing


Ask the client to read the six words in each row and cross out the one that does not belong. Score a plus (+) or  minus (−) for correct or incorrect responses. 


_______ Cow 


Apple 


Carrot 


Cheese 


Banana 


Oatmeal


_______ Desk 


Chair 


Blue 


Bed 


Couch 


Table


Ask the client to read the following sentences and do what they say. Score a plus (+) or  minus (−) for correct or incorrect responses. 


_______ Look at the ceiling. 


_______ Point to the door, then blink your eyes. 


_______ Sing Happy Birthday. 


Ask the client to read the following paragraph out loud and answer the questions about it. Score a plus (+) or  minus (−) for correct or incorrect responses. 


Mark and Rick are brothers. They both entered a tennis tournament, hoping to win the $1,000 grand prize. Mark won his first two matches but was eliminated after losing the third match. Rick made it all the way to the semi-finals. He lost but was awarded a can of tennis balls as a consolation prize. 


_______ Are Mark and Rick cousins? 


_______ What sport did they play? 


_______ What was the grand prize? 


_______ Did one of them win the grand prize? 


_______ Which one did the best in the tournament? 


Copyright © 2021 Plural Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Permission to reproduce for clinical use granted. 








AppendiX c.  cognitive-Linguistic evALuAtion  295


Show the client these two clocks and ask what time the clocks say. Score a plus (+) or  minus (−) for correct or incorrect responses. 


Now ask the client to copy the clocks below. Note accuracy of construction. 


Copyright © 2021 Plural Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Permission to reproduce for clinical use granted. 





296  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Ask the client to put an X through all the circles on this page. Note the client’s attention to the left half of the page. 


Copyright © 2021 Plural Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Permission to reproduce for clinical use granted. 


 


AppendiX c.  cognitive-Linguistic evALuAtion  297


Write your name. 


Write today’s date. 


Write a short description of what you have done today in speech therapy. 


Copyright © 2021 Plural Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Permission to reproduce for clinical use granted. 


 298  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch


 Writing


Ask the client to complete the writing tasks presented on the previous page. Observe accuracy of response, completeness and organization of response, legibility, and observance of left visual field. Make comments in the right margin. 


Write your name. 


Write today’s date. 


Write a short description of what you have done today in speech therapy. 





 Pragmatics and Affect


Check all behaviors observed during your assessment. 


_______ Inappropriate physical proximity  


_______ Inappropriate physical contacts  


_______ Left visual field neglect  


_______ Poor eye contact  


_______ Lack of facial expression  


_______ Gestures (inappropriate, absent)  


_______ Lack of prosodic features of speech (intensity, pitch, rhythm) _______ Poor topic maintenance  


_______ Lack of appropriate turn-taking  


_______ Perseveration  


_______ Presupposition (too much, too little)  


_______ Inappropriately verbose  


_______ Lack of initiation  


_______ Easily distracted  


_______ Frequent interruptions  


_______ Impulsive  


_______ Poor organization  


_______ Incompleteness  


From  Assessment in Speech-Language Pathology: A Resource Manual (6th ed.) K. G. Shipley and J. G. McAfee. Copyright © 


2021 Plural Publishing, Inc. 


Copyright © 2021 Plural Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. Permission to reproduce for clinical use granted. 





 Appendix D


The worLd heALTh 


orgAnIzATIon And The 


InTernATIonAL CLAssIFICATIon 


oF FUnCTIonIng, 


dIsABILITy, And heALTh


The International Classification of Functioning, 


n  What are the outcomes of the treatment, 


Disability, and Health (ICF) shifts from a medical 


and how useful were the interventions? 


model to a more integrated bio-psychosocial model 


n  How would I rate my capacity in mobility 


for analyzing human functioning and disability. The 


or communication? 


ICF is important to the definitions, measurement 


practices, and policies of the health and disability 


The underlying principle of the ICF is that any-


of people around the world. Furthermore, it pro-


one can have a disability, and that disease/disor-


vides individuals with a common language and a 


der is multidimensional. Disease is not culturally, 


framework to describe issues of health. It provides 


geographically, or gender-specific; it can occur at 


a classification of health-related domains used to 


any time across the lifetime; and there are barriers 


describe body structure and function, and what an 


and  facilitators — personal  and  environmental — that 


individual with a specific health condition can do in 


can affect a person’s rehabilitation. The person 


their environment based on their capacity level and 


with a disability is viewed as a whole person in this 


performance ability. The ICF shifts the focus from 


model and not as a medical condition. For example, 


cause to the impact health conditions can place on 


 context-inclusive addresses the need to consider the one’s functioning in the world. The ICF is a tool that 


social network and resources of the person with the 


allows individuals to compare information about 


disorder, not only the disorder itself. The outcomes 


health and disability. It provides the general basis for 


of a rehabilitation program should be functional 


the World Health Organization’s overall approach to 


and ultimately facilitating the person’s return to the 


health. Service provision using the ICF is geared to 


social fabric. The foundations of the ICF can be sum-


answer such individualized questions as:


marized by the following schema:


Human Functioning    — not  merely  disability


n  What is the individual’s level of 


functioning? 


Universal Model 


  — not a minority model


n  What treatments or interventions can 


Integrative Model 


  — not merely medical or  


maximize functioning? 


 social





299





300  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Interactive Model 


  — not  linear  progressive


The interpretation for a particular disorder or 


Parity 


  — not  etiological  causality


disease could be explained as a disease/disorder 


leads to an impairment, which creates a disability,   


Context-Inclusive 


  — not  person alone


and has handicapping   consequences. This was an 


Cultural Applicability  — not  western  concepts


important first step because it captured the condi-


tion of the whole person within one framework. 


Operational 


  — not theory driven alone


This was refined further with the ICF of 2001 and 


Life Span Coverage    — not  age  driven


2007 (Table D–1, Comparison Chart). The change 


involved a redefinition of the impact of the disease 


The original system, instituted in 1980, used the 


on the patient and added barriers and facilitators 


categories of  Disorder, Impairment, Disability,  and impacting rehabilitation. 


 Handicap. Graphically, this can be represented as: This familiar graphic in Figure D–1, illustrates 


the current ICF conceptualization of disease/disorder. 


Disorder → Impairment → Disability → Handicap The interactive aspect of this model is readily visible. 


Table d–1.   A comparison of icidh non-interactive Model with the iFc interactive Model


handicap


Impairment


disability


icidh 1980 


deviation from 


Functional 


A social consequence 


(noninteractive)


the norm


consequences 


of the impairment or 


of impairment


disability; defined by 


social attitudes and 


responses. 


icF 2007 


Body structure/


Activities 


participation 


(interactive)


Functions


 Functions 


 Capacity 


 Barriers 


 Structures


 Performance


 Facilitators


Figure d–1.   World health organization (2002) icF Model. 


 


AppendiX d.  the WorLd heALth orgAnizAtion And the icF  301


Body Functions and structures


these factors so that the whole person is considered 


during treatment planning. 


There are many environmental factors and per-


The ICF (2001) has systematized body functions and 


sonal factors that can affect a person’s rehabilitation, 


structures, and placed them in relational pairs. For 


and as a consequence, their ability to be a partici-


example,  Mental Functions is paired with  Structures pant in social interactions and activities. The current 


 of the Nervous System, and  Voice and Speech Func-ICF model asks the provider to take those factors 


 tions  is paired with  Structures Involved in Voice and into consideration during the rehabilitation process. 


 Speech. It is notable that there is no pair such as The  Environmental Factors are divided into barriers 


“Language Functions/Structures Related to Language 


and facilitators. A particular factor can be either a 


Production and Comprehension” to characterize the 


barrier or a facilitator, because the model requires 


aphasias, for example. However, there is a classifica-


that the patient be considered as a unique individ-


tion under  Specific Mental Functions (b140–b189), ual, with unique life circumstances. For example, 


which is  Mental Functions of Language (b1670), 


for one patient, their natural environment may act 


and that covers the aphasias. (See http://apps.who. 


as a facilitator in the rehabilitation, yet for another 


int/classifications/icfbrowser/


it may be a barrier. The  Environmental Factors are listed below:


Activities and participation


n  Natural environment and human-made 


changes to the environment


n  Products and technology


This element of the model addresses the functional 


n  Support and relationships


effects of the disease or disorder. A list of the  Activi-n Attitudes


 ties  and  Participation component is below: n  Services, systems, and policies. 


n  Learning and applying knowledge


n  General tasks and demands


n Communication


The ICF and the rehabilitation 


n Movement


of the person with an Acquired 


n Self-care


Language disorder


n  Domestic life areas


n  Interpersonal interactions


n  Major life areas


As rehabilitation professionals, the value of this 


n  Community, social, and civic life. 


model cannot be overstated. If the goal of treat-


ment is to restore the individual to the social fabric 


— the context — of his or her life, then treating the 


Contextual Factors  


whole person makes eminent sense. This model is 


(environmental/personal Factors)


also consistent with the ASHA Code of Ethics that 


mandates individualized treatment while holding 


the “welfare of the patient paramount.” Any of the 


The environmental factors and personal factors 


disorders discussed in this book can be interpreted 


affecting rehabilitation are jointly referred to as  Con-and addressed using the current ICF model, and a 


 textual Factors in the ICF (2007) model. The model wise clinician will find great benefit in doing so. We 


recognizes the impact that context can have on a 


provide an example of how to use the ICF model 


patient’s recovery, and the context within which 


with a person with aphasia in Table D–2. 


each individual operates in the world is unique to 


The follow categories complete the list of pri-


that individual. Therefore, a clinician must consider 


mary considerations within the ICF. 


 302  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Table d–2.   how to use the icF Model with a person with Aphasia disease/


Body structure/


disorder


Function


Activity


participation


Barriers


Facilitators


cvA


neurological 


communication


interpersonal 


no caregiver 


nephew nearby 


structures and 


interactions; 


support; 


willing to visit; 


functions; Mental 


movement; 


depression; low 


social worker 


functions for 


learning and 


socioeconomic 


assigned; in-home 


language


applying new 


status


aide 3 times per 


knowledge


week for 4 hours


Body


 Activities and Participation


 Function


Learning and Applying Knowledge


General Tasks and Demands


Mental Functions


Communication


Sensory Functions and Pain


Mobility


Voice and Speech Functions


Functions of the Cardiovascular, 


Self-Care


Hematological, Immunological, and 


Domestic Life


Respiratory Systems


Interpersonal Interactions and Relationships


Functions of the Digestive, Metabolic, 


Endocrine Systems


Major Life Areas


Genitourinary and Reproductive Functions


Community, Social, and Civic Life


Neuromusculoskeletal and Movement-Related 


 Environmental Factors


Functions


Functions of the Skin and Related Structures


Products and Technology


Natural Environment and Human-Made 


 Structure


Changes to Environment


Structure of the Nervous System


Support and Relationships


The Eye, Ear, and Related Structures


Attitudes


Structures Involved in Voice and Speech


Services, Systems, and Policies


Structure of the Cardiovascular, 


Immunological, and Respiratory Systems


reference


Structures Related to the Digestive, Metabolic, 


and Endocrine Systems


World Health Organization. (2002).  Towards a common 


Structure Related to Genitourinary and 


 language for functioning, disability and health: 


Reproductive Systems


 International classification of functioning, disabil-


Structure Related to Movement


 ity and health.  Geneva, Switzerland. Retrieved from http://www.who.int/classifications/icf/training/icf 


Skin and Related Structures


beginnersguide.pdf





 Appendix E


The oCTAgon worksheeT For 


FUnCTIonAL CoMMUnICATIon





303


FUNCTIONAL COMMUNICATION CONNECTIONS OCTAGON


 VISUALLY MEDIATED


READING and WRITING


WRITING / DRAWING


READING / COMPREHENSION:


EXPRESSION


PICTURES - WORDS


LISTENIN


WRITING


dan


G


and


READING


SPEAKING


LISTENING / GESTURING


SPEAKING/


COMPREHENSION


GESTURING


SPEAKING and LISTENING


 VERBALLY MEDIATED


304





 Appendix F


TesT yoUr knowLedge


n  This examination focuses on  critical 


dependent on nursing for his activities of daily liv-


 thinking,  given detailed clinical information. 


ing. Nursing reports that he “just lays there most 


n  There are 50 questions on this 


of the day.” His family is present in the afternoon 


examination, based on seven case 


hours, and they are asking for “rehab.” 


scenarios. Read the case scenarios very 


carefully. This is a skill that you must 


1.  Based on the history above, it is most likely that 


master in this discipline. 


this patient is presenting with:


n  Choose the one best response and circle 


a.  Lewy body dementia


your response on the answer sheet below 


b. PPA


and darken the appropriate corresponding 


c.  Anoxic encephalopathy


responses. 


d. RHD


2. As the family is asking for “rehab,” is it rea-


Case #1


sonable to assume that the DRS would be the 


appropriate rating scale for this patient as part 


of your assessment? 


This patient is a 60-year-old WM found down by his 


a.  Yes, because the DRS is a scale related to 


son in the living room of a house that they share. 


functioning post-hospitalization and there-


The patient was not breathing and had no pulse. The 


fore describes the patient from a rehab 


patient’s son started CPR after calling 911, and he 


potential perspective. 


continued with CPR until EMS arrived, 10 minutes 


b.  Yes, because the DRS assesses brain injury. 


later. EMS found the patient to be unconscious, not 


c.  Yes, because the DRS is the best and most 


breathing, and pulseless. They implemented the car-


efficacious assessment instrument for all 


diac arrest protocol. A respiration and a pulse were 


anoxic patients. 


restored. The son told EMS that the patient must 


d.  No, I would still use the Rancho rating sys-


have been down “for at least 10 minutes” before he 


tem for this patient. 


called 911. The patient was transferred to the EMS 


vehicle and taken to the local hospital. 


3.  This family is asking for inpatient rehab ser-


The patient was stabilized in the emergency 


vices at a free-standing rehabilitation hospital 


department and transferred to the cardiac care unit. 


2 weeks post event. This may pose a counseling 


Two weeks post-event, the critical care attending 


and education problem for you. How would you 


consulted speech-language pathology to assess the 


handle this? 


patient’s cognitive-linguistic status in preparation 


a.  I would refer to social work and step aside. 


for eventual transfer to the next level of care. The 


b. I would notify the resident and tell her 


chart review indicated that the patient had variable 


that this family is irate and unrealistic and 


levels of alertness; mumbles “occasionally”; is totally 


demand a social work consult from her. 





305


 306  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch c.  I would ask for a family meeting and explain 


lamic bleed, and an intraventricular bleed. He was 


the goals and procedures of my treatment 


transferred to another acute care hospital, where he 


plan while the patient is at this level of care. 


underwent a left ventriculostomy. He also suffered a 


Then I would take their questions. 


left tibia fracture that was repaired by open reduc-


d.  I would advocate for the patient and family 


tion internal fixation (ORIF), a left ulna fracture that 


and start an intense rehabilitation treatment 


was casted, and a left clavicle fracture. Thirteen days 


plan immediately. 


later, the patient went into respiratory failure that 


required a tracheostomy. He was placed on 28% 


4. Once you complete the assessment on this 


oxygen. A G-tube was also placed at this time for 


patient while he is in acute care, which approach 


nutritional needs and provision of medication. 


would you use at the outset of therapy? 


The patient was transferred to a rehabilitation 


a.  I would start immediately with ORLA. 


center approximately 4 weeks post-injury, at a Ran-


b.  I would address his poor attentional skills, 


cho Level 2. He was making generalized responses 


gradually increasing his ability to attend to 


to auditory stimuli but was unresponsive to both 


me for longer periods of time. 


visual and tactile stimuli. He was unable to follow 


c.  I would start with a verbal expression goal, 


commands and dependent in all self-care, com-


so that he can communicate his basic needs. 


munication, and mobility. He continued to receive 


d.  I would start developing a writing treatment 


all nutrition through the G-tube and still required 


plan as he is nonverbal. 


the tracheostomy with room air. At this time in his 


rehabilitation stay, he was receiving physical, occu-


5.  The patient is transferred to a rehab facility. He 


pational, and speech-language pathology services. 


stays there for 8 weeks. He then comes back to your 


As noted above, the patient was transferred to rehab 


hospital for continued OP therapy because it is 


when he was 4 weeks out from the injury, and he 


closer to his home than going back to the rehab 


began receiving therapeutic services from PT, OT, 


facility. He is now verbal, and still mildly lethar-


and speech. He arrived as a Rancho Level 2 patient. 


gic although attentive, and with a mild auditory 


He is now 8 weeks out from the injury, and he is 


processing deficit. What would you do first? 


able to participate in 3 hours of treatment per day — 


a.  I would conduct my own formal assessment 


one hour in each therapy. He is now at Rancho Level 


in order to delineate his current strengths 


6. They are weaning him from the G-tube feedings, 


and weaknesses. 


and he is starting to meet his nutritional goals via 


b.  I would use the rehab therapist’s notes and 


PO feeds (PO = eating by mouth). His current cogni-


continue with his treatment. 


tive/communication profile is as follows:


c.  I would refer the patient to a community 


reentry program in order to prepare him for 


n  LOA:  Usually awake and alert in the 


his eventual return to work. 


morning. Needs more attentional cues in 


d.  I would not treat this patient as this is as 


the afternoon to attend to tasks. 


good as he will get, based on his initial clini-


n  Receptive language:  1-step commands, 


cal presentation. 


2-step simple commands with objects: 


100%; 


n  Confrontation naming:  moderate 


Case #2


impairment, improved from baseline 


4 weeks ago; 


n  Expressive language:  Semantic paraphasias 


The patient is a 24-year-old WM who sustained a 


persist; syntax WFL at sentence level 


TBI as an unrestrained passenger in a motor vehicle 


for short declarative sentences, more 


accident. He was unresponsive at the scene of the 


paraphasic at conversational level. 


accident. He was taken to an acute care hospital 


n  Speech Production:  flat intonation, slow 


where a CAT scan revealed cerebral edema, left tha-


rate, but 100% intelligible in known 


 


AppendiX F.  test Your KnoWLedge  307


and unknown contexts despite mild 


ing his functional communication with others 


consonantal distortions. 


by addressing which of the following:


n  Memory:  Declarative memory is impaired; 


a.  Speech production


procedural memory for activities of daily 


b.  Sentence building


living needs is mildly impaired. 


c.  Developing his awareness of his paraphasic 


n  Behavior:  Emerging awareness of deficits; 


errors


still asks to “leave to go to work,” but can 


d. Writing


be redirected; emotional lability noted, but 


decreasing. 


12.  The patient is now in rehab at your facility. As 


noted above, he has intelligible speech, despite 


6.  According to the admission record, this patient 


mild distortions and a flat intonation contour. 


was diagnosed with cerebral edema. To monitor 


What would you do in this case? 


the pressure on his brain, the neurosurgeons 


a.  Initiate an intense oromotor program since 


will need to insert:


this would eliminate his muscle weakness 


a.  a craniotomy


and make his speech more articulate. 


b.  an IV


b.  Take stimulability data on his ability to benefit 


c.  an intraventricular shunt


from contrastive stress drills, which teaches 


d.  an ICP bolt


him to vary the intonation based on meaning. 


c.  I would use MIT and start at the sound seg-


7.  The initial imaging studies revealed a “left tha-


ment level. 


lamic bleed.” As this patient has sustained a TBI, 


d.  I would not address the speech impairment 


it is unlikely that he will also present with a 


since he is functional in the social context. 


subcortical aphasia. 


a. TRUE


13.  Every time the patient sees his parents, he begins 


b. FALSE


to cry and asks if he can “go to work today.” His 


parents are aware that this is organic; however, 


it is beginning to affect them, and one morn-


8.  The GCS on this patient was:


ing, the nurse found all of them crying together. 


a.  Not reported


However, when she asked, “Why are you cry-


b. 3/15


ing?” the patient responded, “I don’t know, I just 


c. 15/15


do.” If this happens during a therapeutic session 


d. 0/15


with you, it is your responsibility to:


a.  Leave the room and allow them to be alone. 


9.  According to the patient’s record, he was at Ran-


b.  Stay in the room with them, ask them how 


cho Level 2 four weeks out from his injury. At 


you can help, and then follow their lead. 


that level, therapeutic intervention is focused on 


c.  Leave the room and immediately call social 


intense rehabilitation efforts. 


work. 


a. TRUE


d.  Explain to the parents and the patient that 


b. FALSE


this will not improve, and that they must 


adjust, that is, using a “tough love” approach 


10.  This patient is presenting with clinical symp-


to counseling them. 


tomatology consistent with aphasia secondary 


to a TBI. 


14.  At Level 6, this patient is characterized as:


a. TRUE


a.  Localized responses: total assistance


b. FALSE


b.  Confused-agitated: Max assist


c.  Appropriate: Min assist for activities of daily 


11.  Once this patient was ready to participate in 


living


treatment, I would focus my goals on optimiz-


d.  Confused-appropriate: Mod assist


 308  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch 15.  This patient, like all TBI patients, has memory 


n  Left facial weakness; tongue was deviated 


impairment. His declarative memory is worse 


to the left on protrusion; palate was 


than his procedural memory. OT has asked that 


normal; uvula central and gag reflex 


you cotreat with them during his morning activ-


present. 


ities of daily living. Since OT focuses on the  acts 


of shaving, bathing, dressing, and so forth, your 


16.  Based on the case history information above, 


primary role in this cotreatment scenario is to:


this patient is presenting with:


a. Monitor his language use during these 


a.  A right CVA with speech impairment and 


activities. 


buccofacial weakness. 


b.  Provide memory strategies so that he can 


b.  A right CVA with anoxia. 


remember the names of the items being 


c.  A left CVA with dysarthria and aphasia


used. 


d.  A right CVA with no buccofacial involvement. 


c.  Provide a script so that he can communicate 


during the activity(ies). 


17.  Once stabilized, this patient may present with 


d.  Provide memory strategies, cue him during 


cognitive-linguistic impairment. The following 


processing as needed, and provide strate-


would be true in this case:


gies that he can use to self-cue during these 


a.  He may be aphasic, and as I do not know if 


activities. 


he is left-handed, I would administer a test 


for aphasia. 


b.  He will resolve into a TBI-type patient. 


Case #3


c. Paralinguistic and extralinguistic deficits 


would predominate. 


d.  There would be syntactic, morphologic, and 


This is a case of a 60-year-old male, with a history of 


phonologic deficits in this patient. 


HTN and Type I diabetes for the past 15 years. He 


presented at the emergency department with com-


18.  In order to evaluate this patient, I would use:


plaints of mild left upper limb weakness and slurred 


a.  The MIRBI


speech, which started simultaneously half an hour 


b.  The SCATBI


earlier. His PMH included stroke in 2001 as well as 


c.  The WAB-R


a CABG (coronary artery bypass and graft) done in 


d.  The ABCD


1996. He was admitted to rule out stroke. On day 2 


of the admission, he complained of severe weakness 


19.  Based on the case history as reported above, 


of the left upper extremity with no sensory changes. 


this patient appears to be a high  cardiac risk. 


The following morning his left upper extremity was 


Therefore, the case history supports the prob-


flaccid, and his speech abnormality worsened. The 


ability that the etiology of this stroke is most 


nursing assessment from that morning reported the 


likely:


following:


a.  Thrombotic or embolic


b. Hemorrhagic


n  He was conscious and oriented to person, 


c. Intraventricular


time, and place. 


d.  Subdural hematoma


n  He stood with assistance, and his gait was 


normal walking to the bathroom. 


20.  Based on the information that you have about 


n  Vital signs were stable (BP; heart rate/


this patient, it is also possible that he may pres-


rhythm; respiratory rate; afebrile)


ent with:


n  The CNS examination revealed the 


a.  Behavioral abnormalities, language issues, 


following:


emotional lability


n  Mild dysarthria; no hypernasality, with 


b. Prosopagnosia, anosagnosia, tangential 


pitch breaks. 


output


 


AppendiX F.  test Your KnoWLedge  309


c.  Attentional problems, apraxia of speech, and 


22.  According to the report of the patient’s friends 


dysgraphia without alexia


at the scene of the event, this patient fell back-


d. Personality changes exacerbated by the 


ward and hit his head on the concrete. Most 


intracerebral pressure


likely, this caused:


a.  Occipital involvement due to a coup injury 


from the fall


b.  Temporal involvement due to a contrecoup 


Case #4


injury from the fall


c.  Parieto-occipital hemorrhage


d.  An occipital skull fracture


This patient is a 14-year-old male who had a skate-


board accident at the skateboard park. This was wit-


23.  The patient did lose consciousness at the scene, 


nessed by his friends. According to their report, the 


but only briefly. As a consequence, he is not 


patient attempted a trick that involved a maneuver 


considered a patient with a TBI. 


that he hadn’t perfected, and he fell backward and 


a. TRUE


hit his head on the concrete. They described him 


b. FALSE


as sitting up briefly, but then he passed out. They 


called 911. 


24.  This young man and his parents arrived on time 


EMS arrived, and the patient was breathing 


for the OP evaluation 2 weeks post-discharge. 


with a strong pulse, but had his eyes closed and was 


They were pleasant, cooperative, and obviously 


very lethargic. His GCS was as follows: Eye Opening: 


very informed about their son’s status and health 


3; Verbal Response: 4; Motor Response: 5. He was 


care issues in general. You decide to administer 


transferred to the local hospital, admitted to neuro-


which test? 


surgery service, and was placed under observation 


a. WAB-2


in the neuro-intensive care unit. His parents, who 


b. MTDDA


were both in health care, were notified, and they 


c.  Revised Token Test


arrived promptly. 


d. SCATBI


Once the CT of the head and the MRI was read, 


25.  The results of the assessment revealed the fol-


neurosurgery determined that he did not have a sub-


lowing deficit areas: memory, attention, infor-


dural, subarachnoid, or an epidural hemorrhage. 


mation processing, and concrete thinking. You 


He was described as “out-of-the-woods,” and they 


inform the parents that you will be recommend-


wanted to release him the next day. However, the 


ing treatment to focus on these deficit areas. 


parents said that, “He’s not sharp. He is a very bright 


You discover that this patient cannot attend for 


boy, and he doesn’t know the state capital or our 


15 minutes without asking for a “walk outside.” 


home state.” They wanted a rehab consult to assess 


The mother reports that he is not doing well in 


his cognition. Neurosurgery stated that there is no 


class and is getting up to go to the bathroom 


medical reason for him to be in the hospital, so they 


very often. She thinks that he is taking these 


will still discharge him. However, they will write 


breaks because he cannot manage the class-


for an OP evaluation and treatment by speech, PT, 


room context. She asks you if this “makes any 


and OT. The patient was discharged the next day 


sense based on your experience.” You state:


at 11 am. 


a.  No, it does not. He had no identifiable injury 


on the MRI, so this is probably laziness. 


21.  This patient presents with a case history consis-


b.  Yes it does. He had a severe brain injury, and 


tent with:


this is always expected. 


a. PPA


c.  Yes, it does. His testing revealed attentional 


b. PCS


problems, and these types of injuries have 


c. SDAT


very subtle symptoms after the fact. 


d.  TBI with anosagnosia


d.  Yes it does. He’s 14 and hates school! 


  310  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Case #5


27.  When you enter the patient’s room, she is sitting 


up in bed. You notice that her head is turned 


to the left. You stand at the foot of the bed and 


A 36-year-old WF was shopping at the local super-


call her name, and she responds but does not 


market. A witness reported that the patient “wobbled 


turn toward the sound of your voice. Which of 


to the right, and then fell down.” The witness alerted 


the following disorders must be ruled out? 


the store manager who immediately called 911. EMS 


a. Simultagnosia


arrived in 6 minutes. The patient was breathing nor-


b. Prosopagnosia


mally, eyes open, moaning, and conscious. 


c.  Auditory agnosia


The patient was an accounts manager for a pub-


d.  Visual neglect due to hemianopsia


lic relations firm and is at her desk at least 12 hours 


per day. Her family reported that her firm downsized 


28.  The patient is awake, alert, and cooperative with 


and that she was “furloughed.” As a consequence, she 


no complaint of pain. You administer the selected 


has been feeling very stressed. She often reported 


test instrument. Selected findings indicate: sig-


to her friends and family that her heart “feels funny 


nificant logorrhea and neologistic output; mod-


sometimes.” The patient smokes cigarettes 1 ppd, 


erate-severe auditory comprehension deficit. 


drinks socially, and “loves her coffee.” Her family 


This suggests that this patient is presenting with:


reported that she has gained at least 50 lbs. recently, 


a.  A posterior aphasia, probably of the Wer-


causing great embarrassment. She does not partici-


nicke’s type


pate in a fitness program of any sort. Her sleep has 


b.  An anterior aphasia, more consistent with a 


been negatively affected by her life circumstances. 


Broca’s type


When EMS arrived on the scene, their assess-


c.  A mixed aphasia due to the occluded territory


ment included the following data:


d. A subcortical aphasia due to the visual 


involvement


n  Nonverbal; not following commands; eyes 


open; paretic (paretic = weak) right arm; 


29.  The etiology of this stroke is most likely from a:


right facial droop


a.  Subdural hemorrhage


n  Slightly irregular heart rate


b.  Cardiac source


n  Pulse 80, BP 160/85, respiratory rate 20, 


c.  Blood disorder


afebrile


d.  Eating disorder


EMS called the patient in as a “probable stroke.” She 


30.  When reviewing this patient’s chart before you 


was transferred to the local hospital and admitted to 


enter to begin the evaluation, the most relevant 


the critical care unit for monitoring. The patient was 


information in the history taken by EMS, for 


stabilized in the critical care unit and transferred to 


your purposes, is:


a telemetry floor. 


a.  Pulmonary and social histories


b.  Neuro, vitals taken in the field, and CV status


26.  You were consulted on day 5 of this admission. 


c.  Neuro, social, and pulmonary


The medical diagnosis on your  Request for Con-


d.  CV only


 sultation  printout was L CVA. You have 30 to 40 


minutes to evaluate this patient due to a depart-


31.  On day 6 of the admission, you enter the room 


mental staff meeting on the hour. You decide 


to begin treatment with this patient. It makes 


to use which assessment tool to evaluate this 


the most sense to:


patient? 


a.  Place sequencing cards in front of her and 


a. MIRBI


ask her to “tell the story.” 


b. CADL


b.  Begin a word-finding task. 


c. WAB-R


c.  Stand midline and have her locate you, and 


d. BDAE


then explain why. 


 


AppendiX F.  test Your KnoWLedge  311


d. Explain the phonological elements of her 


Case #6


neologisms in order to heighten her aware-


ness of them. 


A 57-year-old female retired business owner began 


32.  The reading subtest of the test instrument indi-


having difficulty finding words. Over time, she found 


cated that this patient had a reading disorder. 


it more difficult to express her thoughts and started 


As a consequence, you decide to administer the 


become socially withdrawn and was characterized 


Reading Comprehension Battery for Aphasia 


by family as “a quiet little mouse.” She used mostly 


(RCBA). You find the following:


nouns and struggled with connected speech. There 


a.  Unable to sound out words


was no family history of stroke or dementia. The 


b.  There is a sound-symbol disassociation


case history described her pleasant, well-groomed, 


c.  Uses word shape to facilitate meaning


cooperative, and courteous. Her neurological exami-


d.  Uses memory as a strategy to facilitate reading


nation was WNL. 


The neurologist’s report indicated that her 


33.  This patient is presenting with an alexia with 


MMSE (Mini Mental State Exam) was 29/30, missing 


the characteristics of:


only a repetition item. Her speech was nonfluent, 


a.  A peripheral type with global characteristics


agrammatic, with struggle behavior noted. Her audi-


b.  A central type with surface alexia characteristics


tory comprehension was WNL. Working memory 


c.  A central type with phonological alexia char-


was mildly impaired. She generated 17 animals in 1 


acteristics


minute but only 8 “d” words. She correctly named 


d.  A peripheral type with pure characteristics


57of 60 words on the Boston Naming Test (BNT). 


Recognizing facial emotions was normal. 


34.  This patient is presenting with a dysarthria. 


The patient’s MRI revealed asymmetric atro-


a. TRUE


phy of the left frontal lobes. EMG was normal. The 


b. FALSE


neurologist reported that he tested for tau protein 


35.  One of the packaged programs that can be use-


in the blood, but it was absent. Unfortunately, this 


ful for a patient with this type of aphasia is:


patient had a significant decline within 2 years. She 


a. MIT


became mute and developed a moderate dysphagia. 


b. PACE


The neurologist diagnosed this patient with demen-


c. SPPA


tia, most likely of the FTP type. 


d. NMAI


37. This patient is presenting with Alzheimer’s 


36.  In the acute care setting, your goals for this 


Disease. 


patient will include:


a. TRUE


a. Optimizing her auditory comprehension; 


b. FALSE


addressing the logorrhea; and providing her 


with a functional means of communication 


38.  From the choices below, which is the linguis-


for her immediate needs. 


tic symptom that  most indicates frontal lobe 


b.  Developing her repetition skills; facilitating 


involvement? 


her writing skills; aggressively addressing 


a. Agraphia


the alexia. 


b.  Visual perceptual deficits


c.  Addressing lexical retrieval functions; opti-


c. Agrammatism


mizing her narrative discourse; addressing 


d.  Lexical retrieval problems


auditory processing


d. Encouraging more conversational speech 


39.  Based on the case history above, the evaluator 


with family and friends; do not address the 


noted that the patient had no problem recogniz-


logorrhea as this is a sign of recovery; opti-


ing faces. The technical name for the inability to 


mize attentional skills. 


recognize faces is:


  312  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch a.  Visual agnosia


44.  The patient was able to name 17 animals in 1 


b. Simultagnosia


minute but only 8 words with initial /d/ in the 


c. Prosopagnosia


phonological configuration. This shows that:


d.  Incomplete gestalt phenomenon


a.  Lexical retrieval is still intact. 


b. Retrieving nouns is easier than retrieving 


40.  Is it atypical to read that lexical retrieval issues verbs. 


are an early symptom in a case history of a 


c.  Lexical retrieval is not yet an issue. 


patient with dementia? 


d.  The sound-symbol relationship is beginning 


a. YES


to fracture. 


b. NO


45. Agrammatic productions were noted in this 


41.  The physician requested that a test for “tau” be 


patient’s output. She also presented with “articu-


included in the patient’s bloodwork profile. This 


latory groping” and “a stuttering output.” There-


is because:


fore, this patient’s symptoms are consistent with 


a.  The tau protein is the marker for all dementias. 


which type of aphasia? 


b.  Tau accumulation in the CSF indicates a FTP-


a.  Conduction aphasia


type dementia. 


b.  Anomic aphasia


c.  It has been shown that an accumulation of 


c.  Jargon aphasia


the tau protein in the CSF is indicative of 


d.  Nonfluent aphasia


SDAT. He wanted to make a differential. 


d.  The tau protein breaks down cells in the lan-


46.  The patient is described as “mute” at the 2-year 


guage area of the cortex. 


mark. This is when you meet her. Although 


her auditory comprehension is still functional, 


42.  You are consulted at the 2-year mark in this 


though mildly impaired, which of the options 


patient’s process. The role of the speech-lan-


below would you choose to pursue? 


guage pathologist in this case at that time is:


a.  I would take baseline data on her ability to 


a.  To work with the family, providing counsel-


use an AAC system, from the most simple to 


ing and education around the issues of the 


the most complex available in our hospital 


patient’s cognitive-linguistic decline. 


at that time. 


b.  To begin training the patient in compensa-


b. I would use CILT to facilitate verbal 


tory strategies for her activities of daily living 


expression. 


needs. 


c.  I would teach the patient a simple gestural 


c.  OP treatment 2 times per week for 8 weeks 


language for use in the home. 


in order to establish a baseline for her cog-


d.  a and c


nitive-linguistic functions. 


d.  Aggressive cognitive-linguistic treatment to 


restore communicative functions. 


Case #7


43.  When working with this patient, it is wise to 


redirect her gently if she is caught up in an 


This patient is a 60-year-old, right-handed WM with 


obsessive, unrealistic thought pattern. 


h/o HTN, and recent MI (myocardial infarction), 


a.  TRUE — Because they are unable to reason 


who had a sudden onset of right central facial 


clearly, so challenging them to alter that pat-


paralysis, right upper and lower extremity hemipa-


tern will be futile. 


resis, and the inability to speak. The patient was 


b.  FALSE — You must challenge their irrational 


sitting in his car, waiting to pull out of his driveway. 


thoughts, so that they can learn to break the 


His neighbor came by approximately 15 minutes 


cycle. 


later and found him slumped against the window on 


 


AppendiX F.  test Your KnoWLedge  313


the driver’s side. He was awake but unable to speak. 


d.  A subcortical aphasia


The neighbor called 911. They arrived within 6 min-


utes. The patient was stabilized by EMS and trans-


49.  This patient was transferred to a free-standing 


ferred to the local hospital, called in as a “stroke 


rehab facility after 8 days in acute care. You are 


in progress.” 


consulted to evaluate the patient. You choose 


The patient’s PMH included: morbid obesity, 


the WAB-R and the BNT. You chose these two 


HTN, MI, ASCVD (atherosclerotic cardiovascular dis-


instruments because:


ease), and hypercholesterolemia. The patient is a 


a.  They are reimbursable. 


2 ppd smoker. No ETOH. 


b.  The WAB-R gives an aphasia quotient and is 


Both the CT scan and MRI supported a diagno-


brief; and the BNT can give a detailed picture 


sis of left MCA branch infarct. The areas infarcted 


of the word-finding deficit that you expect to 


included the pre-Rolandic region (specifically 


find. 


Brodmann’s 44 and 45), the motor strip, with some 


c.  The WAB-R gives an aphasia quotient and 


involvement of the inferior frontal region. Radiol-


the BNT assesses naming and auditory 


ogy also noted that there was “some question about 


comprehension. 


white matter involvement” but his may have been 


d.  The family insisted on these two tests. 


old. Radiology and neurology agreed that the prob-


able etiology was cardioembolic. 


50. The patient does present with a mild dysar-


thria, although his speech intelligibility is 100% 


47.  The clinical presentation of this patient in the field in known and unknown contexts. Why would 


raised the question of etiology. Why did radiol-


you choose  not to include speech articulation 


ogy believe that his stroke was “cardioembolic”? 


as a goal in his therapy plan? 


a.  The patient was obese and a smoker. 


a.  I would still choose to work on articulation 


b.  A history of MI, HTN and ASCVD, and hyper-


because it would get him even closer to nor-


cholesterolemia support the diagnosis. 


mal, premorbid levels. 


c.  The patient already sustained one MI, and 


b.  I would choose not to work on his speech 


this stroke was likely caused by a second one. 


articulation because it would only make him 


d.  The facial paralysis always indicates a car-


more frustrated to correct something that is 


dioembolic event. 


functional. 


c.  I would choose not to work on his speech 


48. Upon reviewing the chart, and reading the 


articulation because he is 100% intelligible, 


imaging studies, which type of aphasia are you 


and there are other deficit areas requiring 


anticipating? 


more intense focus. 


a.  An anterior aphasia


d.  I would not choose to work on his speech 


b.  A mixed aphasia


articulation because he is depressed and 


c.  A posterior aphasia


unwilling to participate in treatment anyway. 


  314  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Answer key


1. c


11. c


21. b


31. c


41. c


2. a


12. b


22. a


32. c


42. a


3. c


13. b


23. b


33. b


43. a


4. b


14. d


24. d


34. b


44. d


5. a


15. d


25. c


35. b


45. d


6. d


16. a


26. c


36. a


46. d


7. b


17. c


27. d


37. b


47. b


8. a


18. a


28. a


38. c


48. a


9. b


19. a


29. b


39. c


49. b


10. a


20. b


30. b


40. a


50. c





IndeX


Note:  Page numbers in bold reference non-text material. 


A


Examining for Aphasia Test-4th Edition (EFA-4), 


44–45


AAC (Alternative and augmentative communication), 


Focus on Function, 45


242


Frenchay Aphasia Screening Test (FAST), 45


for adults, 243–244


Functional Assessment of Communication 


high-technology systems, 244


(FACS), 38–39


low technology systems, 244


Functional Assessment of Verbal Reasoning and 


Aachen Aphasia Bedside Test, 34


Executive Strategies (FAVRES), 45–46


ABCD (Arizona Battery for Communication Disorders 


Global Deterioration Scale (GDS), 46


of Dementia), 37–38, 211


Kentucky Aphasia Test (KAT), 46


Abnormal flexion, 189


Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE), 47


ACA (Anterior cerebral artery), 15, 18


modifications to, 53–54


sequelae to stroke, 18


Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), 47


Academic deficits, traumatic brain injury and, 192


Progressive Aphasia Severity Scale (PASS), 47–48


Academy of Neurologic Communication Disorders 


Psycholinguistic Assessments of Language 


and Sciences (ANCDS), 55


Processing in Aphasia (PALPA), 48


ACE-III (Addenbrooke’s Cognitive Examination), 39


Quick Aphasia Battery (QAB), 49


Acquired language Disorders (ALD), 39


Reading Comprehension Battery for Aphasia, 


Acetylcholine, 3, 4


Second Edition (RCBA-2), 49–50


ACM (Acute care consultative model), 58


Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of 


Acquired


Neuropsychological Status-Update (RBANS), 


agraphia, 154–157


48–49


alexia, 153–154


Ross Information Processing Assessment-2 


case scenario, 157–161


(RIPA- 2), 50–51


Acquired language disorders (ALD)


Scales of Cognitive Ability for Traumatic Brain 


assessment


Injury (SCATBI), 51–52


Addenbrooke’s Cognitive Examination, 39


Scales of Cognitive and Communicative Ability 


areas of consideration, 30–33


for Neurorehabilitation (SCCAN), 51


Arizona Battery for Communication Disorders of 


Stroke and Aphasia Quality of Life Scale-39 


Dementia (ABCD), 37–38


(SAQOL-39), 52


Assessment for Living with Aphasia, 38


Western Aphasia Battery-Revised (WAB-R), 


Assessment of Language-Related Functional 


52–53


Activities (ALFA), 39–40


biological interventions, 239–240


Boston Diagnostic Aphasia Examination-3 


quick reference diagnostic charts for, 71–79


(BDAE-3), 40


service delivery for, 57–63


Cognitive Linguistic Evaluation, 41–42


rehabilitation setting, 57–58


Cognitive Linguistic Quick Test Plus (CLQT), 42


target model, 31–33


Coma Recovery Scale–Revised, 42–43


treatment


Communication Confidence Rating Scale for 


efficacy/evidence, 237–238


Aphasia (CCRSA), 43–44


intensity, 241–242


Comprehensive Aphasia Test (CAT), 44


programs for, 245–246





315


  316  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Acquired language disorders (ALD)   (continued)


Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE), 47


use of rehabilitation applications, 244–245


modifications to, 53–54


 see also Language disorders


Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), 47


ACRT (Anagram, Copy, and Recall Therapy), 245, 


Progressive Aphasia Severity Scale (PASS), 47–48


247–249


Psycholinguistic Assessments of Language 


background, 247


Processing in Aphasia (PALPA), 48


measuring patience response, 249


Quick Aphasia Battery (QAB), 49


methodology, 247–249


Reading Comprehension Battery for Aphasia, 


preparing for, 249


Second Edition (RCBA-2), 49–50


Activities of daily living (ADL), 81


Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of 


Acute Aphasia Screening Protocol, 34


Neuropsychological Status-Update (RBANS), 


Acute care consultative model (ACM), 58


48–49


Acute care setting, 57


Ross Information Processing Assessment-2 


Addenbrooke’s Cognitive Examination, 211


(RIPA- 2), 50–51


ADL (Activities of daily living), 81


Scales of Cognitive Ability for Traumatic Brain 


ADP (Aphasia Diagnostic Profiles), 35


Injury (SCATBI), 51–52


Agitation, dementia and, 209


Scales of Cognitive and Communicative Ability 


Agrammatism, 25, 27


for Neurorehabilitation (SCCAN), 51


Agraphia


Stroke and Aphasia Quality of Life Scale-39 


acquired, 154–157


(SAQOL-39), 52


case scenario, 157–161


Western Aphasia Battery-Revised (WAB-R), 


treatment for, 246–247


52–53


ALA (Assessment for Living with Aphasia), 38


biological interventions, 239–240


Alcohol, encephalopathy and, 228


quick reference diagnostic charts for, 71–79


Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD), 228


service delivery for, 57–63


ALD (Acquired language disorders), 37


rehabilitation setting, 57–58


assessment


target model, 31–33


Addenbrooke’s Cognitive Examination, 39


treatment intensity, 241–242


areas of consideration, 30–33


treatment of, efficacy/evidence, 237–238


Arizona Battery for Communication Disorders of 


treatment programs for, 245–246


Dementia (ABCD), 37–38


use of rehabilitation applications, 244–245


Assessment for Living with Aphasia, 38


 see also Language disorders


Assessment of Language-Related Functional 


Alexia, acquired, 153–154


Activities (ALFA), 39–40


ALFA (Assessment of Language-Related Functional 


Boston Diagnostic Aphasia Examination-3 


Activities), 39–40


(BDAE-3), 40


ALS (Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis), 146


Cognitive Linguistic Evaluation, 41–42


Alternative and augmentative communication (AAC)


Cognitive Linguistic Quick Test Plus (CLQT), 42


for adults, 243–244


Coma Recovery Scale–Revised, 42–43


high-technology systems, 244


Communication Confidence Rating Scale for 


low-technology systems, 244


Aphasia (CCRSA), 43–44


Alzheimer’s disease, 209


Comprehensive Aphasia Test (CAT), 44


ACE and, 39


Examining for Aphasia Test-4th Edition (EFA-4), 


case scenario, 219–224


44–45


diagnosis of, 210


Focus on Function, 45


Global Deterioration Scale (GDS) and, 46


Frenchay Aphasia Screening Test (FAST), 45


irreversible, 211


Functional Assessment of Communication 


American Indian Sign Language (AMERIND), 262


(FACS), 38–39


AMERIND (American Indian Sign Language), 262


Functional Assessment of Verbal Reasoning and 


Amygdala, 12


Executive Strategies (FAVRES), 45–46


Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), 146


Global Deterioration Scale (GDS), 46


Anagram, Copy, and Recall Therapy (ACRT), 245, 


Kentucky Aphasia Test (KAT), 46


247–249


 indeX 


317


measuring patience response, 249


paraphasic errors and, 29


methodology, 247–249


posterior, 29, 108–115


preparing for, 249


primary progressive aphasia (PPA), 146–152


Anagram and Copy Treatment (ACT), 247–249


computer-only treatment and, 242


background, 247


described, 146


ANCDS (Academy of Neurologic Communication 


diagnosing, 146–147


Disorders and Sciences), 55


treating, 147


Angiography, 21


randomized controlled trials, 238–239


Anodal Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation 


reading/spelling concurrent treatment for, 249–250


(A-tDCS), 81


receptive, 29, 108–115


Anomia


sensory, 29, 108–115


agraphia, 156


subcortical, 135–145


Broca’s aphasia and, 84


case scenario, 140–145


primary progressive aphasia (PPA), 147


characteristics of, 136–139


Anomic aplasia, 127–132


described, 135–136


case scenario, 128–132


syndromes, 74–79


characteristics of, 127


transcortical motor, 91–96


Anterior aphasia, 27


case scenario, 96–96


Anterior cerebral artery (ACA), 15, 18


characteristics of, 91


sequelae to stroke, 18


treating, computer-assisted, 242


Aphasia, 127


Wernicke’s, 23, 108–115


alternative and augmentative communication, 


Aphasia Center, on Wernicke’s aphasia, 110


243–244


 Aphasia Corner, 245


in bilingual person, 161–169


Aphasia Diagnostic Profiles (ADP), 35


case scenario, 163–169


Aphasia Needs Assessment, 37


recovery patterns, 162


AphasiaScripts, 243


border zone, 91


Aphasiology, 23


Broca’s, 25, 27, 84–93


Applications, Acquired language Disorders and, 


characteristics of, 84–86


244–245


preservation and, 29


Apraxia of speech


characteristics of, 25–27


Broca’s aphasia and, 29, 84


classification of, 26


primary progressive aphasia (PPA), 147


conduction, 121–126


Arachnoid membrane, 5


case scenario, 122–126


Arizona Battery for Communication Disorders of 


characteristics of, 121–122


Dementia (ABCD), 37–38


conversational analysis and, 54–55


Story Retelling Subtest for screening purposes, 211


differential, cognitive control in, 162–163


Arousal Facilitation Protocol, 43


expressive, treatments for, 82


Arousal Scale Attention, 43


fluent, 73–74


AS (Arterial spin labeling), 20


anomic aplasia, 127–132


Arterial spin labeling (AS), 20


described, 107–108


 ASHA 2011 Health Care Survey, 59


transcortical sensory, 115–121


ASHA-FACS (ASHA-Functional Assessment of 


Wernicke’s aphasia, 108–115


Communication Skills), 37


global, 97–103


Assessment


case scenario, 98–103


of language disorders, 23–25


characteristics of, 97–98


linguistic areas of, 32


neuroimaging and, 240–241


of right hemisphere disorders (RHD), 30


nonfluent


Assessment of Contingent Behavior, 43


Broca’s aphasia, 84–90


Assessment of Language-Related Functional Activities 


global, 97–103


(ALFA), 39–40


major, 71–72


Assessment tools


transcortical motor aphasia, 91–96


Addenbrooke’s Cognitive Examination, 39


  318  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Assessment tools   (continued)


Auditory perceptual disorders, right hemisphere 


Aphasia Needs Assessment, 37


disorders, 176


Arizona Battery for Communication Disorders of 


Auscultation, of carotids, 20


Dementia (ABCD), 37–38, 39


Automatic speech, 25


Assessment for Living with Aphasia, 38


defined, 27


Assessment of Language-Related Functional 


Axons, 1


Activities (ALFA), 39–40


Boston Diagnostic Aphasia Examination-3 (BDAE-


B


3), 40


Burns Brief Inventory of Communication and 


Basal ganglia, 136


Cognition, 40–41


BDAE-3 (Boston Diagnostic Aphasia Examination-3), 


Cognitive Linguistic Evaluation, 41–42


40, 211


Cognitive Linguistic Quick Test Plus (CLQT), 42


Bedside assessment, 35


Coma Recovery Scale–Revised, 42–43


sample items, 36


Communication Confidence Rating Scale for 


Bedside Evaluation Screening Test-2 (BEST-2), 35


Aphasia (CCRSA), 43–44


Behavior


Comprehensive Aphasia Test (CAT), 44


brain relationships with, 242–243


Examining for Aphasia Test-4th Edition (EFA-4), 44–45


modification, 243


Focus on Function, 45


BEST-2 (Bedside Evaluation Screening Test-2), 35


Frenchay Aphasia Screening Test (FAST), 45


Bilingual person


Functional Assessment of Communication (FACS), 


aphasia and


38–39


case scenario, 163–169


Functional Assessment of Verbal Reasoning and 


recovery patterns, 162


Executive Strategies (FAVRES), 45–46


Blood flow, cerebral, 15–16


Global Deterioration Scale (GDS), 46


Border zone aphasias, 91


Kentucky Aphasia Test (KAT), 46


Boston Diagnostic Aphasia Examination-3 (BDAE-3), 


Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE), 47


40, 211


modifications to, 53–54


 Boston Naming Test, 211


Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), 47


Brain


Progressive Aphasia Severity Scale (PASS), 47–48


behavior relationships with, 242–243


Psycholinguistic Assessments of Language 


cerebral cortex, 5–10


Processing in Aphasia (PALPA), 48


cerebrum, 5–10


Quick Aphasia Battery (QAB), 49


coverings of, 5


Reading Comprehension Battery for Aphasia, 


hemispheres, 5


Second Edition (RCBA-2), 49–50


herniation, 187


Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of 


imaging, 19–21


Neuropsychological Status-Update (RBANS), 


injury, diagnosis of severity of, 189


48–49


insula, 10


Ross Information Processing Assessment-2 


lobes of, 6–10


(RIPA-2), 50–51


structure/function of, 4–13


Scales of Cognitive Ability for Traumatic Brain 


subcortical


Injury (SCATBI), 51–52


pathways, 137


Scales of Cognitive and Communicative Ability for 


structures, 13


Neurorehabilitation (SCCAN), 51


views of


Stroke and Aphasia Quality of Life Scale-39 


lateral, 8


(SAQOL-39), 52


midsagittal, 7


Western Aphasia Battery-Revised (WAB-R), 52–53


Brain Injury Association of America, 200


Attention, therapeutic implications of, 32


Brain Stem Reflex Grid, 43


AUD (Alcohol Use Disorder), 228


Brainstem, 10, 11


Auditory comprehension, defined, 27


Broadmann, Korbinian, 85


Auditory Function Scale, 42


Broadmann’s areas, 85


 indeX 


319


Broca’s


Cerebrovascular accident (CVA), 16–18


aphasia, 25, 27, 84–90


aphasia and, 25


case scenario, 86–90


Cerebrum, 5–10


characteristics of, 84–86


Change, monitoring, 63


preservation and, 29


CHI (Closed head injury), 187, 188


area, 15–16


CILT (Constraint-Induced Language Therapy), 246, 


Burns Brief Inventory of Communication and 


250–252


Cognition, 40–41


Circle of Willis, 15


CJD (Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease), 146, 209


C


described, 211


irreversible, 216–217


CADL (Communication Activities of Daily Living), 37, 


Clinical Dementia Rating Scale, 211


43


Clinical-neuroanatomical approach, 23


Capsulostriatum, 136


Clock drawing, 33


Carotids, examination of, 20


Clonic Preservation, 27, 28


CART (Concurrent Treatment for Reading and 


Closed head injury (CHI), 187, 188


Spelling in Aphasia), 246


CLQT (Cognitive Linguistic Quick Test Plus), 33, 42, 


CART (Copy and recall treatment), 249–250


248


Case history, information in, 24


CLQT+ (Cognitive Linguistic Quick–Plus), 42


Case scenario


CMS (Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services), 


anomic aplasia, 128–132


acquired language disorders and, 241–242


aphasia in bilingual person, 163–169


Cognitive-communications deficits, traumatic brain 


Broca’s aphasia, 86–90


injury and, 192


dementia, 219–224


Cognitive-communications disorders, impact of, 186


global aphasia, 98–103


Cognitive control, in differential aphasia, 162–163


primary progressive aphasia (PPA), 148–152


Cognitive impairment, traumatic brain injury and, 


right hemisphere disorders, 177–182


191–193


subcortical aphasia, 140–145


Cognitive Linguistic Evaluation, 33, 41–42


transcortical


Cognitive Linguistic Quick Test Plus (CLQT), 33, 42, 


aphasias, 92–96


248


sensory aplasia, 116–121


Cognitive Linguistic Quick–Plus (CLQT+), 42


traumatic brain injury and, 201–206


Cognitive screen, CAT (Comprehensive Aphasia Test), 


CAT (Comprehensive Aphasia Test), 44


44


CAT scan, brain, 19


Coma, duration of, 189


Cathodal Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation 


Coma Recovery Scale–Revised (CRS-R), 42–43


(C-tDCS),, 81


Communication Activities of Daily Living, Third 


Caudate nucleus, 136


Edition (CADL-3), 43


CCRSA (Communication Confidence Rating Scale for 


Communication Confidence Rating Scale for Aphasia 


Aphasia), 43–44


(CCRSA), 43–44


Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 


Communication disorders, right hemisphere 


Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), defined, 


disorders, 174


216–217


Communication History and Interest Form, 200


Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS)


Communication Scale, 43


acquired language disorders and, 241–242


Comprehensive Aphasia Test (CAT), 44


Minimum Data Set (MDS) and, 62


Computerized aphasia treatment, defined, 242


Cerebellum, 12–13


Computer-only treatment (COT), aphasia and, 242


Cerebral


Concurrent Treatment for Reading and Spelling in 


blood flow, 15–16


Aphasia (CART), 246


cortex, 5–10


Conduction aplasia, 121–126


palsy, 14, 243


case scenario, 122–126


Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), 5


characteristics of, 121–122


 320  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Confrontational naming, written test, 247–248


stages of, 212–213


Constraint-Induced Language Therapy (CILT), 246, 


symptoms indicating, 209–210


250–252


treatment research, 217–218


Continuous Preservation, 27, 28


types of


Contrecoup injury, 187


Alzheimer’s disease, 215


Conversational analysis, aphasia and, 54–55


Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, 217


Conversational Coaching, 246, 252


Frontotemporal dementias (FTD), 216


COPS: Caution On Pushing Send, 199


Huntington’s chorea, 217


Copy and recall treatment (CART ), 249–250


Parkinson’s disease, 215–216


Corpus callosum, 5


Dendrites, 1


Corticobasal degeneration, 146


Diagnostic results, goal setting based on, 55


Corticobulbar nerve track, 14


Differential aphasia, cognitive control in, 162–163


Corticonigral degeneration, 146


Diffuse axonal injury (DAI), 187, 188


Corticopontine nerve tract, 14


Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), 241


Corticospinal nerve tract, 14


Diffusion tensor tractography (DTT), 241


COT (Computer-only treatment), aphasia and, 242


Disability Questionnaire, CAT (Comprehensive 


Coup injury, 187


Aphasia Test), 44


Cranial nerves, 10–11, 12


Disability Rating Scale (DRS), 195, 196, 198


assessment of, 24


Divergent Word Retrieval, 246, 253–254


Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), 146, 209


Documentation, of progress, 63–65


described, 216–217


Dopamine, 3, 4


irreversible, 211


Doppler ultrasound, carotids examination using, 20


CRS-R (Coma Recovery Scale–Revised), 42–43


DRS (Disability Rating Scale), 195, 196, 198


CSF (Cerebrospinal fluid), 5


Drugs, encephalopathy and, 228


CT scan, 19


DT (Delirium tremens), 228


C-tDCS (Cathodal Transcranial Direct Current 


DTI (Diffusion tensor imaging), 241


Stimulation),\, 81


DTT (Diffusion tensor tractography), 241


Cueing strategies, 252–253


Dura matter, 5


CVA (Cerebrovascular accident), 16–18


Dysarthria, unilateral upper motor neuron (UUMN), 


aphasia and, 25


84


d


e


DAI (Diffuse axonal injury), 187, 188


Educational models, behavior modification and, 243


DAT (Dementia of the Alzheimer’s type), described, 


EEG (Electroencephalography), 241


215


diagnosing dementia and, 210–211


Decerebrate


EFA-4 (Examining for Aphasia Test-4th Edition), 37, 


posturing, 187–188


44–45


rigidity, 189


Effectors, 1, 2


Declarative memory, 214


Elaborated Semantic Feature Analysis (ESFA), 270


Decorticate


Electrical Alzheimer’s Test, 210


posturing, 187


Electroencephalogram (EEG), 240


rigidity, 189


diagnosing dementia and, 210–211


Delirium tremens (DT), 228


Embolic stroke, 17


Dementia


Encephalopathy


alternative and augmentative communication, 


case scenario, 229–234


243–244


characteristics of, 228


case scenario, 219–224


described, 227


characteristics of, 209–210


Endocardiography, 21


described, 209


Endorphin, 3


diagnostic factors, 210–212


Episodic memory, 32


memory and, 213–214


Error recognition, 29–30


 indeX 


321


Errorless learning, 200


ACE and, 39


ESFA (Elaborated Semantic Feature Analysis), 270


neurocognitive disorder, diagnosis of, 211


Evaluation of Communication Problems in Right 


parietal dementia, irreversible, 211


Hemisphere Dysfunction-3 (RICE-3), 50


Functional Assessment of Communication (FACS), 37, 


Examining For Aphasia-4 (EFA-4), 37, 44–45


38–39


Executive functions


Functional Assessment of Verbal Reasoning and 


therapeutic implications of, 33


Executive Strategies (FAVRES), 37, 45–46


traumatic brain injury and, 192


Functional Communication Connections Octagon, 45, 


Expressive aphasia, 27


70


treatments for, 82


Functional Communication Measure (FCM), 39


External posturing, 189


Functional Communication Treatment (FCT), 265–266


Extrapyramidal


The Functional Linguistic Communication Inventory, 


disorders, 14


211


system, 15


Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), 


240–241


F


g


FACS (Functional Assessment of Communication), 


38–39


GABA (Gamma aminobutyric acid), 3, 4


FAS Verbal Fluency Test, 211


Gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA), 3, 4


FAST (Frenchay Aphasia Screening Test), 45


GCS (Glasgow Coma Scale) scale, 189, 191


FAVRES (Functional Assessment of Verbal Reasoning 


traumatic brain injury and, 189


and Executive Strategies), 37, 45–46


GDS (Global Deterioration Scale), 45–46, 211


FCM (Functional Communication Measure), 39


Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS), 188, 191


FCT (Functional Communication Treatment), 265–266


traumatic brain injury and, 189


Flexion, abnormal, 189


Glial cells, 5


Fluency


Global aphasia, 97–103


defined, 27


case scenario, 98–103


speech, 25


characteristics of, 97–98


Fluent aphasia, 27, 73–74


Global Deterioration Scale (GDS), 45–46, 211


anomic aplasia, 127–132


Glutamate, 3


case scenario, 128–132


Goal setting, based on diagnostic results, 55


characteristics of, 127–132


Gray matter, 5


conduction aplasia, 121–126


 Gray Oral Reading Test, 264–265


described, 107–108


major, quick reference diagnostic charts for, 73–75


h


transcortical sensory, 115–121


case scenario, 116–121


Hallucinations, dementia and, 209


described, 115–116


Head injury, prognostic considerations of, 188


Wernicke’s aphasia, 108–115


 Health Care Survey,  ASHA 2011, 59


case scenario, 111–115


Hemispheres, brain, 5


fMRI (Functional magnetic resonance imaging), 20, 


Hemorrhagic stroke, 17


240–241


Hippocampus, 12


Focus on Function, 45


Histamine, 3


Frenchay Aphasia Screening Test (FAST), 45


HIV disease, 209


Frontal lobes, of brain, 6–8


Home care setting, 57–58


Frontotemporal dementia (FTD)


Home health model, 59–60


ACE and, 39


assessment of, 60


described, 216


discharge from, 60


neurocognitive disorder, diagnosis of, 210


Huntington’s chorea, 14, 209


parietal dementia, irreversible, 211


described, 217


FTD (Frontotemporal dementia), 216


irreversible, 211


 322  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Hydrocephalus, 5, 190, 212


 Small Talk, 245


traumatic brain injury and, 191


 Lingraphica, 244


Hypothalamus, 11–12


Linguistic


areas, assessment of, 32


I


impairment, traumatic brain injury and, 191–193


Literal paraphasias, 29


ICF (International Classification of Functioning, 


A-FROM (Living with Aphasia: Framework for 


Disability and Health), aphasia model, 30


Outcome Measure), 38


 iConverse, 245


Living with Aphasia: Framework for Outcome 


Imaging, brain, 19–21


Measure (A-FROM), 38


Imitative speech, 25


World Health Organization (WHO), 55–57


Insula, of brain, 10


Lobes, of brain, 6–10


Integral capsule, 136


 Locabulary Lite, 245


Intentional Preservation, 28


Long-term care (LTC), 61–62


described, 27


assessment of, 62–63


International Classification of Functioning, Disability 


treatment in, 63


and Health (ICF)


Long-term memory, 214


aphasia model, 30


LPAA (Life Participation Approach to Aphasia), 246


World Health Organization (WHO) and, 55–57


LTC (Long-term care), 61–62


Interneurons, 1


assessment of, 62–63


Intoxication, drug and alcohol, 228


treatment in, 63


Ischemic stroke, 17


M


k


Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), 19, 240


KAT (Kentucky Aphasia Test), 46


Magnetoencephalography (MEG), 241


Kentucky Aphasia Test (KAT), 46


Mapping therapy, 246, 257


MAST (Mississippi Aphasia Screening Test), 34


L


MAST (Mobile Aphasia Screening Test), 34


Maze Solving subtest, 33


Language


MCA (Middle cerebral artery), 15


comprehension of, 25


MDS (Minimum Data Set), 62


evaluation of, 24


Medulla oblongata, 10


therapeutic implications of, 32


MEG (Magnetoencephalography), 241


Language Battery, CAT (Comprehensive Aphasia 


Melodic Intonation Therapy (MIT), 30, 258–260


Test), 44


Memory


Language disorders


dementia and, 213–214


assessment of


therapeutic implications of, 32


approaches to, 23


traumatic brain injury and, 192


purpose of, 23–25


types of, vascular dementia, 214–215


 see also Acquired langauge disorders (ALD)


visual, test of, 248


Language Screening Test (LAST), 34


Meninges, 5, 6


LAST (Language Screening Test), 34


Midbrain, 10


Learning, errorless, 200


subcortical structures of, 11–12


Lesions, thalamic, 11


Middle cerebral artery (MCA), 15


Lewy bodies dementia


Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI), 194–195


diagnosis of, 210


Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE), 47, 211


irreversible, 211


Minimum Data Set (MDS), 62


Life Participation Approach to Aphasia (LPAA), 246, 


Mississippi Aphasia Screening Test (MAST), 34


254–255


MIT (Melodic Intonation Therapy), 30, 246, 258–260


Lingraphica, 255–257


MMSE (Mini-Mental State Exam), 47, 211


 indeX 


323


Mobile Aphasia Screening Test (MAST), 34


o


MoCA (Montreal Cognitive Assessment), 47


Monitoring change, 63


OASIS (Outcome and Assessment Information Set), 


Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), 47


60


MossTalk Words (MTW), 244, 246, 258–260


Occipital lobes, of brain, 9–10


Motor


OHI (Open head injury), 187, 188


aphasia, 27


Open head injury (OHI), 187, 188


neurons, 1, 2


Operation Enduring Freedom, brain injuries during, 


Motor Function Scale, 42–43


186


MRI (Magnetic resonance imaging), 19, 240


Operation Iraqi Freedom, brain injuries during, 186


mTBI (Mild traumatic brain injury), 194–195


Oral Reading for Language in Aphasia (ORLA), 84, 


MTW (MossTalk Words), 244, 246, 258–260


249, 264–265


Oral Reading for Language in Aphasia with Virtual 


Therapist (ORLA-VT), 246, 264–265


n


Oral Reading Treatment (ORT), 249–250


Naming, 25


aphasia and, 249–250


Narrative Story Cards, 246, 261–262


ORLA (Oral Reading for Language in Aphasia), 84, 


National Institute of Neurological Disorders and 


249, 264–265


Stroke, encephalopathy defined by, 228


ORLA-VT (Oral Reading for Language in Aphasia 


NCCEA (Neurosensory Centre Comprehensive 


with Virtual Therapist), 246, 264–265


Examination for Aphasia), 35


Oromotor/Verbal Function Scale, 43


NCDs (Neurocognitive disorders), 209


ORT (Oral reading treatment), 249–250


subtypes, 210


Outcome and Assessment Information Set (OASIS), 


Neologism, 29


60


Nervous system, 1


Outpatient setting, 60–61


Neural pathways, 13–15


Neuroactive peptides, 3


p


Neurocognitive disorders (NCDs), 209


subtypes, 210


PACE (Promoting Aphasics’ Communicative 


Neuroimaging, aphasia and, 240–241


Effectiveness), 60, 242, 246, 265–266


Neurons, 1


PALPA (Psycholinguistic Assessments of Language 


Neurosensory Centre Comprehensive Examination 


Processing in Aphasia), 48


for Aphasia (NCCEA), 35


Paragrammatism, 25, 27


Neurotransmitters, 1


Paranoia, dementia and, 209


described, 2–3


Paraphasia, 29


NINDS (The National Institute of Neurological 


Paraphasic errors, 25


Disorders and Stroke), encephalopathy 


Parietal lobes, of brain, 9


defined by, 228


Parkinson’s disease, 3, 14, 209


NMAI (Non-symbolic Movements for Activation of 


described, 215–216


Intention), 246, 262–263


irreversible, 211


Nondeclarative memory, 214


PASS (Progressive Aphasia Severity Scale), 47–48


Nonfluent aphasia, 27


PCA (Posterior cerebral artery), 15, 18, 19


Broca’s aphasia, 84–90


sequelae to stroke, 18


global, 97–103


PCS (Postconcussive syndrome), 193–194


major, quick reference diagnostic charts for, 71–72


Peptides


transcortical motor aphasia, 91–96


neuroactive, 3


Nonsymbolic Movements for Activation of Intention 


pituitary, 3


(NMAI), 246, 262–263


Perceptual disorders, auditory, right hemisphere 


Non-word phonemic paraphasia, 29


disorders, 176


Norepinephrine, 3, 4


PET scan, 20


Normal Sentence Production, 246


Phonemic paraphasia, 29


 324  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Phonological alexia, treatment for, 246–247


Pyramidal system, 15


Pia mater, 5


components of, 14


PICA (Porch Index of Communicative Abilities), 37


Pick’s disease, 209, 216


q


 Pictello, 245


Picture match, fluent aphasia and, 107


QAB (Quick Aphasia Battery), 49


Pituitary, peptide, 3


Quick Aphasia Battery (QAB), 49


Plan of care (POC), 60


Quick reference diagnostic chart, for acquired 


POC (Plan of care), 60


language disorders, 71–79


Pons, 10


Porch Index of Communicative Abilities (PICA), 37


r


Postconcussive syndrome (PCS), 193–194


Posterior aphasia, 27, 29, 108–115


Rancho Los Amigos Level of Cognitive Functioning 


Posterior cerebral artery (PCA), 15, 18, 19


Scale (RLA), 193, 195, 197, 199


sequelae to stroke, 18


Ranchos Los Amigos National Rehabilitation Center, 


Postsynaptic membrane, 3


196


Posttraumatic amnesia, traumatic brain injury and, 


Rand Report, on military brain injuries, 186


189–190


Randomized controlled trials (rCTS), aphasia, 


Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), 186–187


238–239


Posturing, external, 189


RBANS (Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of 


PPA (Primary progressive aphasia), 146–152, 216


Neuropsychological Status-Update), 48–49


case scenario, 148–152


RCBA-2 (Reading Comprehension Battery for 


computer-only treatment and, 242


Aphasia, Second Edition), 49–50


described, 146


rCTS (Randomized controlled trials), aphasia, 


diagnosing, 146–147


238–239


treating, 147


Reading Comprehension Battery for Aphasia, Second 


Pragmatic disorders, right hemisphere disorders, 


Edition (RCBA-2), 49–50


174–175


Receptive aphasia, 27, 29, 108–115


Premorbid intelligence, traumatic brain injury (TBI), 


Receptors, 1, 2


188–189


Recurrent Preservation, 28


Preservation


described, 27


defined, 27


Rehabilitation


tasks to increase, 28


model, 59


types of, 28


setting, 57–68


Primary progressive aphasia (PPA), 146–152, 216


Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago (RIC), 50, 242–243


case scenario, 148–152


Related semantic paraphasia, 29


computer-only treatment and, 242


Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of 


described, 146


Neuropsychological Status-Update (RBANS), 


diagnosing, 146–147


48–49


treating, 147


Repetition speech, 25


Procedural memory, 32


Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS), 


Progress, documentation of, 63–65


81


Progressive Aphasia Severity Scale (PASS), 47–48


Repetitiveness, dementia and, 209


Progressive supranuclear palsy, 146


Resource Utilization Group (RUG), 63


Promoting Aphasics’ Communicative Effectiveness 


Response Elaboration Training (RET), 246, 266–267


(PACE), 60, 242, 246, 265–266


RET (Response Elaboration Training), 246, 266–267


Prosody, defined, 27


Revised Token Test, 35


Psycholinguistic approach, 23


RHD (Right hemisphere disorders), 173–182


Psycholinguistic Assessments of Language Processing 


assessment of, 30


in Aphasia (PALPA), 48


case scenario, 177–182


PTSD (Posttraumatic stress disorder), 186–187


characteristics of, 173–174


Putamen, 136


described, 173


 indeX 


325


disorders


Screening, 34


auditory perceptual, 176


tests, 34–35


cognitive, 176–177


Seizures, traumatic brain injury and, 190–191


communication, 174


Selective attention, 32


pragmatic, 174–175


Self-Efficacy Scaling for Adult Stutters (SESAS), 43


visual-perceptual, 175


Semantic


visuomotor, 175–176


judgement tasks, fluent aphasia and, 107


RIC (Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago), 50, 


memory, 32


242–243


paraphasia, 29


RICE-3 (Evaluation of Communication Problems in 


Semantic Feature Analysis (SFA), 83–84, 246, 


Right Hemisphere Dysfunction-3), 50


269–270


Right hemisphere disorders (RHD), 173–182


Semantic Verbal Fluency (SVF), 34


assessment of, 30


Sensory


case scenario, 177–182


aphasia, 27, 29


characteristics of, 173–174


transcortical, 115–121


described, 173


memory, 214


disorders


neurons, 1, 2, 3


auditory perceptual, 176


Sentence Production Program for Aphasia (SPPA), 30, 


cognitive, 176–177


246, 258, 270–271


communication, 174


SentenceShaper, 83, 246, 272–273


pragmatic, 174–175


Serotonin, 3, 4


visual-perceptual, 175


Services, continuation of, 63


visuomotor, 175–176


SESAS (Self-Efficacy Scaling for Adult Stutters), 43


Rigidity


 Seven Domains Assessment Summary Sheet, 55


decerebrate, 189


SFA (Semantic Feature Analysis), 83–84, 269–270


decorticate, 189


Sheffield Screening Test of Acquired Language 


RIPA-2 (Ross Information Processing Assessment-2), 


Disorders (SST), 34


50–51


Shirley Ryan Ability Lab, 242–243


RLA (Rancho Los Amigos Level of Cognitive 


Intensive Comprehensive Aphasia Therapy 


Functioning Scale), 193, 195, 197


Program, 242


Rolandic fissure, fluent aphasia and, 107


Short-term memory, 214


Ross Information Processing Assessment-2 (RIPA- 2), 


 Small Talk, 245


50–51


SOLVE, 199


rTMS (Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation), 


Soma, 1


81


Sorting, fluent aphasia and, 107


RUG (Resource Utilization Group), 63


Spasticity, traumatic brain injury and, 191


SPECT scan, 20


s


Speech


automatic, 25


SAQOL-39 (Stroke and Aphasia Quality of Life Scale-


evaluation of, 24


39), 52


fluency, 25


Scales of Cognitive Ability for Traumatic Brain Injury 


imitative, 25


(SCATBI), 51–52


repetition, 25


Scales of Cognitive and Communicative Ability for 


Spelling, scoring responses, 248–249


Neurorehabilitation (SCCAN), 51


Spinal cord


SCATBI (Scales of Cognitive Ability for Traumatic 


brainstem and, 10


Brain Injury), 51–52


cross-section of, 3


SCATM (Supported Conversation for Adults with 


SPPA (Sentence Production Program for Aphasia), 30, 


Aphasia), 38


246, 258, 270–271


SCCAN (Scales of Cognitive and Communicative 


SST (Sheffield Screening Test of Acquired Language 


Ability for Neurorehabilitation), 51


Disorders), 34


Schuell’s Stimulation Approach, 246, 267–269


Standardized tests, 55


 326  Acquired LAnguAge disorders:  A cAse-BAsed ApproAch Status post (s/p) head injury, 188


spasticity and, 191


Steinthal, Chajim, 23


symptoms of localization of, 188


Striatum, 136


therapeutic goal establishment, 193


Stroke, 16–18


types of, 187–188


aphasia and, 25


A-tDCS (Anodal Transcranial Direct Current 


Stroke and Aphasia Quality of Life Scale-39  


Stimulation), 81


(SAQOL-39), 52


Temporal lobes, of brain, 8–9


Stuck-in-set preservation, 27, 28


Thalamic lesions, 11


Subarachnoid space, 5


Thalamus, 11, 136–137


Subcortical aphasia, 135–145


Thrombotic stroke, 17


case scenario, 140–145


TMA (Transcortical motor aphasia), 91–96


characteristics of, 136–139


case scenario, 92–96


described, 135–136


characteristics of, 91


Subcortical pathways, 137


TMS (Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation), 81


Supported Conversation for Adults with Aphasia 


Tonic Preservation, 27, 28


(SCATM), 38


Tools.  See Assessment tools


SVF (Semantic Verbal Fluency), 34


Tower of Hanoi, 33


Sylvian fissure, transcortical aphasias and, 91


Transcortical motor aphasia (TMA), 91–96


Synaptic cleft, 3


case scenario, 92–96, 116–121


Syntactic structure, 25


characteristics of, 91


Syntax, defined, 27


Transcortical sensory aplasia (TSA), 115–121


described, 115–116


T


Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS), 81


Traumatic brain injury (TBI)


 Tactus Therapy Solutions, 245


academic deficits, 192


Talking Screen, 244


age at time of, 189


 Talking Tom, 245


alternative and augmentative communication, 


Tardive dyskinesia, 14


243–244


Target model, ALD (Acquired language Disorders), 


case scenario, 201–206


31–33


clinical presentation of, 197


TBI (Traumatic brain injury), 185–187


cognitive-linguistic impairment and, 191–193


academic deficits, 192


deficit types, 192


age at time of, 189


described, 185–187


alternative and augmentative communication, 


duration of coma, 189


243–244


functional outcome variables, 188


case scenario, 201–206


hydrocephalus and, 191


clinical presentation of, 197


medical complications, 190


cognitive-linguistic impairment and, 191–193


mild, 194–195


deficit types, 192


postconcussive syndrome, 193–194


described, 185–187


posttraumatic


duration of coma, 189


amnesia, 189–190


functional outcome variables, 188


seizures, 190–191


hydrocephalus and, 191


premorbid intelligence, 188–189


medical complications, 190


prognostic considerations of, 188


mild, 194–195


rating functional outcome, 195–196


postconcussive syndrome, 193–194


spasticity and, 191


posttraumatic


symptoms of localization of, 188


amnesia, 189–190


therapeutic goal establishment, 193


seizures, 190–191


types of, 187–188


premorbid intelligence, 188–189


Treatment of Underlying Forms (TUF), 246, 273


prognostic considerations of, 188


A Treatment Sequence for Phonological Alexia/


rating functional outcome, 195–196


Agraphia, 245


 indeX 


327


TSA (Transcortical sensory aplasia), 115–121


Visuomotor disorders, right hemisphere disorders, 


case scenario, 116–121


175–176


described, 115–116


Visuospatial skills, 33, 248


TUF (Treatment of Underlying Forms), 246, 273


VNeST (Verb Network Strengthening Treatment), 23, 


246, 273–275


U


w


UAS (Ullevaal Aphasia Screening Test), 34


Ullevaal Aphasia Screening Test (UAS), 34


WAB (Western Aphasia Battery), 35, 52–53, 84, 249


Unilateral upper motor neuron (UUMN) dysarthria, 


WAB-R (Western Aphasia Battery–Revised), 34, 35, 


84


37, 52–53, 264


Unrelated semantic paraphasia, 29


Wernicke’s aphasia, 23, 27, 108–115


UUMN (Unilateral upper motor neuron) dysarthria, 


case scenario, 111–115


84


preservation and, 29


Wernicke’s area, 15–16, 109


v


Western Aphasia Battery (WAB), 49, 84, 249


Western Aphasia Battery-Revised (WAB-R), 34, 35, 37, 


VaD (Vascular dementia), described, 214–215


52–53, 264


Vascular dementia (VaD), described, 214–215


“What Am I Forgetting” Questionnaire, 193


Vascular disease, irreversible, 211


White matter, 5


VAT (Visual Action Therapy), 246, 275–277


WHO (World Health Organization), 81


Ventricles, brain, 5


on diagnosing TBI, 194


Verb Network Strengthening Treatment (VNeST), 23, 


International Classification of Functioning, 


246, 273–275


Disability and Health (ICF) and, 55–57


Verbal


Living with Aphasia: Framework for Outcome 


paraphasias, 29


Measure, 55–57


repetition, defined, 27


Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, 33


Vigilance, 32


Word recall, defined, 27


Visual


Words, writing single, 247


construction, 248


Working memory, 32, 214


memory, test of, 248


World Health Organization (WHO), 81


perception, 248


on diagnosing TBI, 194


pragmatic disorders, right hemisphere disorders, 


domains of functional cognition supported by, 31


175


International Classification of Functioning, 


Visual Action Therapy (VAT), 246, 275–277


Disability and Health (ICF) and, 55–57


Visual Function Scale, 42


Living with Aphasia: Framework for Outcome 


Visual Memory Span subtest, 248


Measure, 55–57


 Visually Assisted Speech Technology, 245


Writing, single words, 247





OceanofPDF.com

Acquired Language Disorders: A Case-Based Approach, Third Edition
    
    
    
    
  


  




























Document Outline


Introduction

Acknowledgments

Contributor

Chapter 1. An Overview of Neuroanatomy and Neurophysiology Related to Acquired Language Disorders (ALD)


The Neuron

Neurotransmitters

Sensory

The Brain: A Brief Review of Structure and Function


The Coverings of the Brain, Ventricles, and Cerebrospinal Fluid

Cerebral Cortex

The Brainstem

Subcortical Structures

The Cerebellum



Neural Pathways

Cerebral Blood Flow


Cerebrovascular Accidents



Brain Imaging and Selected Medical Tests for Acquired Language Disorders


CAT Scan or CT Scan

MRI

fMRI

PET Scan

SPECT Scan

ASL (Arterial Spin Labeling)

Examination of the Carotids: Doppler Ultrasound or Auscultation of the Carotids

Endocardiography

Angiography



References



Chapter 2. Assessment and Service Delivery in Acquired Language Disorders


Approaches to Assessment in Acquired Language Disorders

Purpose of Assessment


Assessment of Language Functions



Characteristics of Aphasia


Definitions of the Clinical Characteristics of the Major Aphasias



Areas to Consider Using the ALD Target Assessment Model


The Target Assessment Snapshot in Acquired Language Disorders



Screening and Diagnostic Assessment


Screening Tests

Diagnostic Assessment in Acquired Language Disorders: Making Sound Decisions

Selected Assessments for Acquired Language Disorders

Modifications to Standard Assessments



Goal Setting Based on Diagnostic Results

Service Delivery and the World Health Organization


The International Classification of Functioning (ICF) and Living with Aphasia: Framework for Outcome Measurement (A-FROM model)



Service Delivery for People with Acquired Language Disorders


The Acute Care Setting

The Rehabilitation Setting

The Home Care Setting

The Outpatient Setting

The Long-Term Care (LTC) Setting

Monitoring Change and Continuation of Services



Documentation of Progress

Summary

References

Appendix 2–A: Functional Communication Connections Octagon

Appendix 2–B: Quick Reference Diagnostic Chart for Acquired Language Disorders



Chapter 3. The Major Nonfluent Aphasias


Introduction

Broca’s Type Aphasia


Characteristics

A Functional Analysis of Maurice

Critical Thinking/Learning Activity

Treatment Considerations

Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM



Transcortical Motor Aphasia


Characteristics

A Functional Analysis of Vincent

Critical Thinking/Learning Activity

Treatment Considerations

Therapeutic Goals with A-FROM



Global Aphasia


Characteristics

A Functional Case Analysis for Elizabeth

Critical Thinking/Learning Activity

Treatment Considerations

Therapeutic Goals with A-FROM



References



Chapter 4. The Fluent Aphasias


Introduction

Wernicke’s Type Aphasia


Characteristics

A Functional Analysis of Mildred’s Wernicke’s Aphasia

Critical Thinking/Learning Activity

Treatment Considerations

Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM



Transcortical Sensory Aphasia


Characteristics

A Functional Analysis of John’s TSA

Critical Thinking/Learning Activity

Treatment Considerations

Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM



Conduction Aphasia


Characteristics

A Functional Analysis of Miriam’s Aphasia

Critical Thinking/Learning Activity

Treatment Considerations

Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM



Anomic Aphasia


Characteristics

A Functional Analysis of Sophie’s Aphasia

Critical Thinking/Learning Activity

Treatment Considerations

Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM



References



Chapter 5. Other Aphasic Syndromes


Subcortical Aphasia


Introduction

Characteristics of Subcortical Aphasias

A Functional Analysis of Winnie’s Subcortical Aphasia

Critical Thinking/Learning Activity

Treatment Considerations

Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM



Primary Progressive Aphasia


Introduction

Characteristics

A Functional Analysis of Luis’s Primary Progressive Aphasia

Critical Thinking/Learning Activity

Treatment Considerations

Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM



Acquired Alexia and Agraphia


Characteristics

Alexia

Agraphia

A Functional Analysis of Sue’s Alexia

Critical Thinking/Learning Activity

Treatment Considerations

Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM



Aphasia in the Bilingual Person


Recovery Patterns in Bilingual Aphasia

Cognitive Control in Differential Aphasia

A Functional Analysis of Hamid’s Bilingual Aphasia

Critical Thinking/Learning Activity

Treatment Considerations

Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM



References



Chapter 6. Right Hemisphere Disorder


Introduction

Characteristics


Communication Deficits

RHD and Pragmatic Impairment

Visual-Perceptual Deficits

Visuomotor Deficits

Auditory Perceptual Deficits

Cognitive Deficits

A Functional Analysis of Debra

Critical Thinking/Learning Activity

Treatment Considerations

Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM



References



Chapter 7. Traumatic Brain Injury


Introduction

Characteristics


Types of Brain Injury

Symptoms Related to Localization of the TBI

Prognostic Considerations in Head Injury

Premorbid Intelligence

Age at the Time of Injury

Duration of Coma

Posttraumatic Amnesia

Medical Complications

Posttraumatic Seizures

Hydrocephalus

Spasticity



Cognitive-Linguistic Impairment Due to TBI


Establishing Goals for the Therapeutic Course



Postconcussive Syndrome

Mild TBI (mTBI)

Rating Scales for Functional Outcomes


Rancho Los Amigos (RLA)

Disability Rating Scale (DRS)



General Treatment Issues


Errorless Learning

A Note About Generalization in People with TBI

A Functional Analysis of Samuel’s TBI

Critical Thinking/Learning Activity

Treatment Considerations

Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM



References



Chapter 8. Dementia


Introduction

Characteristics


Diagnostic Factors

The Stages of Dementia

Memory Systems and Dementia



Types of Dementia


Vascular Dementia (VaD)

Parkinson’s Dementia

Frontotemporal Dementias (FTD)

Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD)

Huntington’s Disease



Overview of Research on Treatment for Dementia


A Functional Analysis of Max’s Dementia

Critical Thinking/Learning Activity

Treatment Considerations

Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM



References



Chapter 9. Encephalopathy


Introduction

Characteristics


Drug and Alcohol Intoxication: Two Common Etiologies for Encephalopathy

A Functional Analysis of Tommy

Critical Thinking/Learning Activity

Treatment Considerations

Therapeutic Goals Using A-FROM



References



Chapter 10. Selected Treatment Programs and Approaches


Historical Overview of Efficacy and Evidence in the Treatment of Acquired Language Disorders (ALD) in Adults


Randomized Controlled Trials (rCTs) and Aphasia Treatment



Trends in Treatment for Acquired Language Disorders


Biological and Pharmacologic Interventions

Using Neuroimaging to Predict Recovery in People with Aphasia

Intensity of Treatment

Computer-Assisted Technology and Treatment of Aphasia

AAC for Adults with ALD: Aphasia, PPA, TBI, and Dementia

The Use of Applications (Apps) in the Rehabilitation of the ALD Patient



Selected Treatment Programs for Acquired Language Disorders


A Treatment Sequence for Phonological Alexia/Agraphia

Anagram, Copy, and Recall Therapy (ACRT)

Concurrent Treatment for Reading and Spelling in Aphasia: Oral Reading Treatment (ORT) and Copy and Recall Treatment (CART)

Constraint-Induced Language Therapy (CILT)

Conversational Coaching

Divergent Word Retrieval

Life Participation Approach to Aphasia (LPAA)

Lingraphica®

Mapping Therapy

Melodic Intonation Therapy (MIT)

MossTalk Words (MTW)

Narrative Story Cards

Nonsymbolic Movements for Activation of Intention (NMAI)

Normal Sentence Production

Oral Reading for Language in Aphasia (ORLA) and ORLA with Virtual Therapist (ORLA-VT)

Promoting Aphasics’ Communicative Effectiveness (PACE)

Response Elaboration Training (RET)

Schuell’s Stimulation Approach

Semantic Feature Analysis (SFA)

Sentence Production Program for Aphasia (SPPA)

SentenceShaper®

Speech Entrainment

Treatment of Underlying Forms (TUF)

Verb Network Strengthening Treatment (VNeST)

Visual Action Therapy (VAT)



References



Appendix A. Case History Form

Appendix B. Seven Domains Assessment Summary Sheet

Appendix C. Cognitive-Linguistic Evaluation

Appendix D. T he World Health Organization and the International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health

Appendix E. T he Octagon Worksheet for Functional Communication

Appendix F. Test Your Knowledge

Index







OceanofPDF.com

Cover
        
    
    
        

            
                
            
        
    

OceanofPDF.com