c0




OceanofPDF.com

c9



This is a work of fiction.


Deadly Vaccine


Copyright© 2025 Frances Pearce Cooper


All Rights Reserved


Cover art by Neelam


Deadly Vaccine


Chapter One


​It's been a week. A looooong, boring week. I've been recovering for a week now at the school, surrounded by people. It's driving me crazy. It's not even like the place is absolutely packed to the brim. There's just a bit over a hundred people holed up here, making what was an elementary school into their new home and sanctuary. That's just a hundred more people than I've gotten used to dealing with on the regular. I have been doing my level best to avoid the majority of them.


​For the most part I've spent the last few months by myself with only occasionally meeting up with other people. I'm used to being on my own. I'm used to silence. I'm used to not having snores  keep me from freaking sleeping.


​Every freaking night for the last week I've put up with that god awful snoring. Why don't I just sleep in a different room far away from the snores? That'd be because my other main option is in a women's bunk room that contains a woman who kind of hates my guts. I more or less return the sentiment. The woman in question, Brittany, cheated on her husband who happens to be my long time friend and former neighbor, Miguel. So, yeah, sharing a room with her wasn't a real option unless the goal is to get one of us to kill the other. My money would be on me winning that round but for some reason others might have a problem with that scenario, what with the whole zombie apocalypse and every life mattering, blah blah blah.


​In a bout of exhausted frustration I rip my pillow out from underneath my head and toss it at Theo.


​“Whaa?” The unintelligible question emerges as Theo pushes my pillow off his face.


​“If you don't stop snoring I will smother you,” I hiss at him.


​No spoken acknowledgment, but Theo does roll over to sleep on his stomach. He only snores on his back, so you'd think he'd know better than to sleep on it. He seems to already be back asleep, thankfully not snoring. Only problem is that now I don't have a pillow, it's still over with Theo.


​My options are to tiredly and gingerly waddle, thanks to sensitive healing feet, over to Theo's bed and take my pillow back, or lay here and try to sleep without it. I have no doubt I can fall asleep without a pillow, I've done it plenty of times before, but I will likely have a kink in my neck when I wake up. I've no energy to get up, so I'll just make do without.


​I'm on the cusp of falling asleep. So freaking close I can taste it. One of the other guys sleeping in this bunk room turns over and the springs in his mattress creak. Foot steps pad down the hallway, muffled through the closed door yet still loud enough to catch my attention.


​Ugh, I rub my hands over my face in frustration. Outside, on your own, you have to be aware of every little sound as it could spell trouble. Being attuned to your surrounding is a huge asset out there. Being inside with people all over the place is less of a good location to be aware of every little sound.


​I can't take this much longer. How am I supposed to recover if I can't get any freaking sleep? My ribs protest as I adjust myself on the single bed I'm resting on. The bruised ribs, as well as a long list of other injuries, were the gift of a giant asshole, Rich, who decided to kidnap me so I'd take him to my survival stash. I didn't take him there and he's now dead, so I don't have to worry about him. If he wasn't already dead I'd be taking a hammer to him in thanks for the lovely injuries that have me stuck here. I can not heal fast enough.


​I flex my feet wondering if they've healed up enough to make the trek back to my place. They got tore up something fierce when I had to run barefoot for a good long distance. If I go slow I bet I could make it. Only there's no guarantee I can take it slow. Who knows if I might have to run from a group of zombies? Or other assholes?


​Oh, yeah, the real reason I'm stuck in an elementary school with mostly strangers. Freaking zombies. I definitely didn't think that'd actually happen, yet here we are. A bad batch of vaccines went out, and instead of inoculating the recipients against a nasty virus going around it killed them off and they came back as zombies. Well, I guess technically it did stop the virus, it just had a nasty side effect. Anyway, people got their shots, then they died only to get back up and started tearing into anyone they could get their hands on. On the plus side, their bites didn't turn anyone. The only zombies are the ones who got their shots. Bad news is that the zombies tore through a hell of a lot of people before we realized what was going on.


​Oh my god, what is that smell? Nope, just nope. I'd rather deal with the flesh eating zombies than spend anymore time stuck in a room surrounded by guys. How do they stink this much? I'm out. Tomorrow, or later today-what time is in anyway? I'm going home. Getting there might be a pain in the ass but once I reach the Victorian house I've chosen as my home base I'll be fine. The place has decent defenses and enough supplies to get me until I'm healed up enough to get more. Yep, my mind is made up. Don't think the guys will take it well. I might have to sneak out.


Chapter Two


​Yep, I should have just sneaked out. Ignoring the majority of voices around me I ask Doc Tim, “Just give it to me straight, are any of my injuries currently life threatening?”


​Pushing unruly, curly brown hair out of his eyes and adjusting his glasses, Doc Tim responds, “No, but-”


​“Will casually walking around put me at risk of life or limb?”


​“No, but-”


​“Then I don't see the problem.”


​In a fit of frustration that I'd yet to see come from Doc Tim, he throws his hands up in the air. “I give up. Someone else talk to her.”


​“Sadie, you're still recovering. You can't really think it's a good idea to head out?” Theo tries to be a voice of reason. I'm not of a mind to listen to his reasonableness when he's a main contributing factor to why I haven't gotten good sleep for days.


​I ignore the puppy dog eyes from Chase. He's less upset that I'm too hurt to leave than he is upset that I'm leaving at all. James, in an unusual show of self awareness, says, “Even I wouldn't go out until I'm healed up.” That's a lot from him considering he isn't known for being the smart one of the group. He's not so much stupid as he's just impulsive and doesn't think things through before he acts.


​Chase isn't the only one I'm avoiding looking at. Miguel is standing with his arms crossed giving me a disapproving look. Rounding out our group is Frank, one of the leaders of the school. I don't know why he invited himself to my meeting with the doctor.


​“If she wants to go out and get herself killed, then let her,” Frank offers in  a grumpy voice. He's usually grumpy when talking to me. I'd take it personally but he's like that with most people, also, I don't really care.


​“Wow, Frank, I can feel the love,” I snark at him, blowing him a kiss. He just gives me a disapproving look. You'd think saving his ass would have earned me some goodwill.


​A loud sigh drags my gaze towards Miguel. Look at me ignoring the fact that even when he's giving me that aggrieved look he's still stupid attractive. Just like I'm ignoring the fact that we totally kissed a few days ago. Yep, just ignoring all that because I'm such a mature adult.


​With a shake of his head, Miguel says, “You've already made up your mind and it doesn't matter what we say. Still as stubborn as ever, Sades.”


​I shrug, it's true. My mind is made up. That's not to say I never listen to advice. I've just already considered everything they've thrown at me. I'd rather suffer through the discomfort of making it home than stay here much longer. I've hydrated enough the last few days to make up for any blood loss I suffered. Yeah, I know there's more to it than that what with blood cells coming from bone marrow and blah blah blah. I didn't lose that much blood in the first place. All my wounds are looking good, healing without a sign of infection, no doubt thanks to Doc Tim's efforts and liberal use of antibiotics. Nothing's broken, I mean without x-ray we don't really know if my ribs are cracked, and everything is scabbed over enough that it would take a good bit of effort to rip them open. I'm more sore than seriously injured at this point. A week off my feet has done me some good.


​“Well, if you're set on going, then I'm going with you,” Miguel states, his serious brown eyes displaying his own stubbornness.


​“That is not necessary,” I start to say only to be cut off.


​“No, just like you've made up your mind, so have I. Either I go with you, or I tie you down to make you stay here longer to heal.”


​“Us, too,” Chase quickly inserts.


​“What? No, there is no reason for you to be out there,” I deny with a frustrated tone. This is getting way more complicated than it needs to be.


​“If it's safe enough for you while still healing, then it's safe enough for me,” Chase says with a huff, crossing his arms over his chest. The act has him looking even younger than his nineteen years. He's like an adorable kitten, damn it.


​“Yeah,” James inserts to make himself part of the conversation. We all just kind of shake our heads at him.


​“You're still healing,” I point out to him. James found himself at the wrong end of a zombie's hands a few days back and has himself several stitches to his abdomen.


​I get a series of 'are you kidding me looks' from all those gathered. Okay, fine, I can accept that wasn't the most logical argument on my part given my current state. “Right, fine. If it'll get me out of here faster you guys can escort me home.” See, I can compromise.


​“You all are dumb-asses,” Frank mutters before walking off.


​“We'll pack up and head out tomorrow,” Miguel says.


​“Uh, I'd planned on going today,” I tell him.


​“Of course you did,” Miguel grumbles before stalking off.


​I give the guys a 'what'd I do?' look that has them rolling their eyes at me.


​Doc Tim comes back into the discussion. “James, let me look at your stitches. The plan was to take them out in a couple more days, but if they're looking good enough I'll go ahead and take them now.”


​“Ugh, won't that hurt?” James whines.


​“Not as much as getting them, you big baby,” I tease him. “Chase can hold your hand.”


​Chase blushes. He's got a huge crush on James. James just nods along, not thinking anything of it, just thankful to have someone hold his hand. That man is so clueless.


​Within minutes Doc Tim has declared James' wounds healed enough to remove the stitches. James has the oddest look on his face. “This feels weird as hell. Not super painful but a really weird tugging. I don't think I want stitches again.”


​“Then you should probably avoid doing shit that requires them,” Theo ribs his friend with a smile.


​“But then I won't be able to have any fun,” James fake whines.


​“Yes, because being attacked by zombies is so much fun,” Chase deadpans from James' side.


​“I'm actually surprised you never had stitches before,” I comment.


​“No stitches. Though, I did break my arm once,” James admits holding up his left arm.


​Finished with James, Doc Tim turns to me. “If you'd like I can take the ones from your arm out, or you can leave them in a few more days, come back and I'll remove them or take them out yourself.”


​“I don't see me making it back here in a few days.” My head bobs a bit back and forth as I weigh it in my head. “I've taken stitches out before but it was awkward as hell and I imagine it would be worse doing it one handed. Okay, go ahead and take them out.” Too bad the stitches weren't the dissolving kind.


​Doc Tim, thankfully not asking any questions about me having removed my own stitches before, gets to work removing the ones in my left forearm. To keep a zombie off my face and throat I'd offered up my arm as a chew toy. It's not pretty and is going to leave a hell of a scar, though it having been stitched up will help with that. Good thing I'm not trying to win any beauty pageants out here. Ha, I snort to myself. Can you imagine what a beauty pageant would look like in the apocalypse? Fancy dress would be leathers and the talent portion would be different ways to take down a zombie.


<<<<<<<>>>>>>>


​I'd wanted to leave before midday so there would be plenty of sunlight hours to make it home. Too bad nobody else is on the same page. I had to send James and Theo back to repack their bags after they tried to bring every single possession with them. I point blankly told them they aren't moving in with me. They shrugged at me. I then pointed out carrying that much would slow them down and tire them out real quick. That last actually got them to re-pack with just the essentials, i.e., food, water, some first-aid supplies, weapons, and a single set of clothes.


​Next up for delays was my Dad trying to talk me into staying. He seemed to get rather frustrated when I pretended I couldn't hear him. Another example of my supreme maturity has been avoiding my Dad for the last week. He left in a huff, his girlfriend trailing behind him. I am nowhere close to forgiving him for the way he abandoned Mom and I. Zombie apocalypse breaks out, does he come home to his wife and daughter? No, he abandoned us for the coworker he was likely cheating with. I honestly thought he was dead until recently.


​A screeching voice brings our little group to a halt. So, close. The door is right there. I lift my hand longingly towards said door but drop it in frustrated resignation, head hanging low. Our newest obstacle is Brittany, Miguel's sort of ex-wife. Right before the whole zombie issue popped up, Miguel found out Brittany was cheating on him. He filed for divorce, rightfully so. Zombies happened before the divorce could happen. Brittany then decided to tag along with Miguel as he left behind the city he'd been living in on the east coast to make his way here, where his parents lived. It's a whole mess, especially when you throw in Brittany trying to get Miguel back.


​I do my best to block out her painful voice as Brittany begs Miguel not to leave, asking who's going to protect her if he isn't here. Just as she then switches to saying she's going to come with us Frank grabs my attention.


​I'm doing my best to stop referring to him as 'Fuck Face Frank' as we seemed to have come to a better understanding when I helped lead a shit ton of zombies away from the school. Anyway, Frank is standing as he usually does, legs spread and arms crossed over his chest, large biceps bulging. In another life Frank was a police officer, so he's used to having a position of authority and people bowing down to his opinion. I'm not much for authority. Or dicks, and he did act rather dickish when we first met. And every other day since.


​Eyes squinted in irritation, Frank offers, “You can borrow a car on the condition it actually makes it back here in one piece.”


​“Wow, crash a car once and it's like nobody thinks you're a good driver,” I joke. Yeah, the last car I drove from here ended up totaled. All for a good cause. “Thanks for the offer, but I think it would be best to do without. I don't want to draw attention. Safer to go on foot.” Even if just the thought has my feet protesting.


​Frank's nostrils flare and his eyes get even squinty-er, how is that even possible? His gaze roves over me. Not in a creepy sexual way. No, he's cataloging all my scrapes and bruises, his eyes pausing for a long moment on my feet even though the damage to those is covered up with shoes. Damn, even Frank thinks I'm being stupid. Maybe it's the black eyes that haven't quite faded that have him questioning my judgment. Though, then again, Frank thinks most of my actions are stupid, so his opinion doesn't count.


​“Chase,” Frank barks out.


​“Yes, sir?” Chase responds as he trots over like a proper little member of society.


​“Sadie here seems to think you all are better off on foot than taking a car. Do you agree?”


​“Oh, well...” Chase freezes a bit, being put on the spot. He rallies around, taking a deep breath. “Sadie is the one with all the outside experience. So, if she thinks it's safer to go by foot then I'm going to follow her lead.” Ha. I smile smugly as Frank's expression turns sour, only to have my grin fall as Chase continues. “Well, and if Miguel agrees. He's also got outside experience, making it across several states to get here.” Damn.


​“Miguel,” Frank calls out, less of a command than when he called over Chase.


​Miguel is finally able to disengage from the annoyingly blond and beautiful Brittany to answer Frank's summons. “Yeah, Frank?” Miguel is polite as he responds but lacking the deference of Chase's tone.


​“Sadie says you are going on foot and not by car. Do you agree that's the best course with her current condition?”


​Miguel takes a moment to respond, thinking it all through. “As long as she really thinks she can make it on foot, then yes, that will likely be the best choice. Cars draw a lot of attention. There's a reason it took me months to get here, there was a lot of foot travel. Especially around larger populated areas. If need be, we can find something along the way, I'm sure.”


​“Fine,” Frank finally lets it go. I'm going to try and be a big person and assume the reason he's listening to Miguel and not me isn't because he's a man and I'm a women. If I think misogyny has anything to do with what just went down, I'm likely to blow a gasket which will just delay us leaving even longer. As is, I'm worried about making it home with plenty of sunlight. I do not want to be caught out after dark. Freaking zombies prefer the night.


​Frank pulls a walkie talkie off his belt. “Roof watch?”


​“This is roof watch,” Comes a static heavy reply from the walkie talkie.


​“How's it look on the east?”


​A few short moments pass before, “Still clear on the east,” comes through.


​There's been a continuous watch from the roof since the last horde of zombies showed up. Not to take too much credit, but I may have pointed out how stupid they were not to have a watch set up before then. The guys on watch have kept an eye out for which door would be safest to exit from today.


​Frank gives me a last hard look before saying, “Let's get this over with. I have shit to do.” Always the charmer, this guy.


​I let Miguel take the lead. Big of me, I know. It's totally to help his ego and not for the fact that I am sore and slow right now. Yep. Stepping out into the sunlight is a bit blinding after being in the dim school. I blink watery eyes and rue the fact that I don't have my sunglasses anymore. I'm definitely going to need to get some more. I can't remember if I already have spares at home or not.


​The door shuts quietly but firmly behind us, the lock clicking into place. I've no doubt Frank is already barricading the door. At least, he'd better be. I really hope they start taking security a lot more seriously after the last scare. Not my problem, though.


​Miguel leads us away from the school, following directions I'd already given him earlier. Back when everything was normal it would've only been a short car ride. Now? It'll be a couple hours at least, and that's if we don't run into too many problems.


​The first few blocks actually pass without issue. My feet are sore but not in agony. Miguel is making sure to keep a pace that isn't too hard on me and the other guys are doing a good job of following along. We haven't run into any zombies, though I'm sure there's some in the buildings around us, chilling out for the day.


Chapter Three


​That whole no zombie thing didn't last long. We've had to duck and avoid a few small packs. Luckily they haven't been super active, mostly just standing around or slowly shuffling along. Sneaking past them has been some slow going. My feet ache. Part of me is really regretting not taking a car. A bigger part of me is still sure a car would draw too much attention, especially with so many zombies out and not holed up in the buildings.


​I'm pretty sure the dampness in my shoes is just sweat and not blood from re-opened wounds. I mean they were mostly healed already, so it's totally just sweat. Am I going to take my shoes off and check? Of course not. For one thing it's easier to pretend everything is fine if I ignore it. Also, I'm not sure I can force myself to put my shoes back on if I take them off. I'm just lucky the shoes they found for me are basically my size. I'd hate to think how much worse I'd be feeling if the shoes were too small or too big.


​Miguel signals it's time to take a break. Everyone starts looking around for a good rest spot. We cut between two buildings, heading for the back of them. There's a small shared parking lot behind the two buildings with a tall privacy fence at the back of the lot. We settle in the shade of an awning that's over the back entrance of a building that looks like it was-, actually I have no idea what kind of building it was. I didn't take note of the name on the front. It's just a single story and doesn't look like retail space. Oh, well. Doesn't really matter as I don't think any of us are of a mind to go exploring.


​Not chancing trying to find a private spot, we take turns looking the other way so everyone has a chance to relieve themselves. I'll admit this is one thing I am jealous of. Just being able to unzip and whip it out is so much more convenient than having to drop trou and squat, hoping you're angled correctly to not splash your pants or shoes. I sacrifice a couple precious sheets of toilet paper to pat myself dry as I can't just shake it off. So unfair.


​I sit down on a cement parking block next to the building and stretch my legs out in front of me. Miguel crouches his tall form down beside me, his eyes scanning our surroundings to make sure we don't get sneaked up on and asks me, “Should we take a look at your feet? See how they're doing?” His tone is quiet so as not to draw attention.


​Voice just as quiet I let out a small huff and reply, “No, if these shoes come off they aren't going back on. Best to wait until we get to my place.”


​Miguel passes me a concerned look before returning to his scans. Trying to reassure him I let him know, “Look, yes they hurt but it doesn't feel like I've damaged them. Just sore from walking on healing skin.”


​Miguel gives a nod, accepting my words. He straightens up and moves a few feet away to keep a better eye on things. Everyone is keeping eyes out in different directions while staying in the same small area. Best not to get too far apart. The guys all break out a small snack. I'm not feeling hungry but make sure to hydrate. Soon enough we're back on our feet and continuing on.


​I'm actually surprised, pleasantly so, that the other guys are keeping quiet and following directions really well. Miguel makes sense as he survived months out here. The other three were a bit more sheltered with Theo and James making the occasional supply run and Chase being shut in the school since nearly the beginning. Okay, it's mainly James I'm surprised by as the guy is a talker. This journey may just be easier than I thought it would be.


​Annnnd I jinxed it. Though, it's actually Miguel who blows it. He trips over something, I don't get a good look at it, but it makes a metallic clinking sound. In the grand scheme of things it's not a loud sound, just a little clang. But that small clang stands out when the only other sounds are the quiet rustling of the wind and the birds flying in the sky.


​We all freeze and share panicked looks before frantically scanning our surroundings to see if anything heard the clang. A minute passes. Two. Maybe luck is on our side?


​That'd be a big fat nope. A couple of zombies slow shuffle from around a corner. That slow shuffle picks up when they notice us. Without any signal all five of us start jogging away. I hope Miguel has somewhere in mind. There's no way I'm winning a running match with the zombies, especially not in the condition I'm in.


​Miguel veers left towards a house with an attached garage sitting wide open. We all rush inside, Miguel and Theo grab the garage door and slam it down. A number of dull thuds sound as the zombies that were chasing us slam into the closed garage door. They were a lot closer than I realized. I definitely wouldn't have been able to keep ahead if we'd kept running much further.


​The garage door starts rattling hard as the zombies keep running into it. Shit, that's either a couple of really persistent zombies or a lot more have shown up. Either way is not good. That door won't hold up to too much force.


​I dig a flashlight out from the side pocket of the bag I'm carrying. There's a door that leads to the house that's closed as well as a door that likely leads to the back yard, also closed. A small tool bench sits to the side. I quickly make my way to the tool bench and riffle through the tools. Hello old friend. There's a claw hammer, all metal and wrapped with a rubber grip. Not as good as the mini-sledge I lost but it'll work just fine. Just having the hammer in hand has me feeling much more comfortable and confident. It suits me better than the wrench and knife I brought from the school.


​“Through the house or out the back door?” Miguel asks in a quiet, very tense, voice.


​“Can we wait them out?” Chase asks, clutching his baseball bat close. The bat is pink and was mine when I attempted to play softball as a kid.


​“Not in here. That garage door will buckle if they keep at it,” Miguel informs him with me nodding in agreement.


​“Going into the house will put more doors and walls between us and them, right?” James asks.


​“Yeah, but what if there's more in there?” Theo chimes in.


​“That's a concern,” Miguel agrees.


​Hitching a thumb towards the large garage door I say, “They're making a lot of noise, which means there are probably more coming. If we stay we could become trapped with no way out, or they could manage to break through. If we head out the back we might be able to get away before they realize we've left. Or there might be some right out there waiting for us.”


​A couple minutes pass as everyone tries to decide. The racket outside just gets louder. There's definitely a mob forming out there.


​Miguel looks at me. “Can you keep running?”


​“Yes,” I say without hesitation.


​“Are you sure?”


​“I think that's our best bet, so yes.”


​“Alright. You guys?” He gazes at the other three.


​“Yeah, we'll run,” Theo answers for them all.


​Miguel moves to the door, one hand on the door knob and the other hand wrapped around the handle of his machete, ready to go. “Ready?” He asks us all.


​Hands tighten around weapons, feet plant, ready to either run or stand our ground. Miguel swings the door open. The hinges let out a squeak that is barely noticeable over the din the zombies are creating on the other side of the garage bay door.


​Nothing runs in from the door Miguel opened, so he exits with the rest of us following behind. Thank god for fenced in back yards. It appears empty back here. Some zombies that had ended up on the side of the house spot us and try to make it to us but get caught by the chain link fence. That doesn't mean it's safe to stay here but it does give us a good head start.


​This is going to suck but there's no help for it if I want to stay on the side of the living. I take a deep breath, try to settle myself firmly into my body, then I go.  We run to the far end of the the yard and hop the fence. My ribs protest the movement but I push it down and keep moving. James slips coming over but quickly rights himself.


​We've landed in an alley. We can go through the yard on the other side or head down either way of the alley. Miguel takes a right, we follow without complaint. Well, no voiced complaint. In my head I'm cursing up a storm. Not at Miguel, but at the situation. Stupid zombies, they just have to go and ruin your day.


​Exiting the end of the alley a single zombie wanders in front of us. Miguel's arm whips out, his machete hitting the zombie's neck. It doesn't decapitate the thing, but it does enough damage that the zombie goes down. A second strike finishes the job. Miguel wipes the blade off on the zombie's shirt completely nonchalant and leads us off once more.


<<<<<<<>>>>>>


​Oh, hell no. No way, no how. “Nope,” I give voice to my thoughts.


​Miguel gives me confused eyes at how quickly I noped going into the grocery store. Me and that grocery store have a bad history. “It'll give us a chance to rest and get some supplies,” Miguel says with all reasonableness, aka, like talking to a five year old.


​“Yeah, you aren't going to get her to go in there. She thinks the place is cursed,” Theo explains, both him and James laughing.


​Chase gives James a light smack, that has James giving him wounded eyes. “She has every reason not to like the place, it's been bad luck to her.”


​“She met us here,” James says.


​“Exactly,” Chase says in a teasing tone.


​“All joking aside, I'd rather not go in there. You guys can, I'll stay out here, keep an eye out,” I offer.


​“Seriously?” Miguel asks.


​“Oh, yeah. I promised myself I wouldn't go back in there.”


​Miguel shakes his head, obviously thinking I'm being ridiculous. I don't care what he thinks, this place has equaled trouble enough for me not to want to go back in. Between zombies and kidnappers my memories are not fond. Plus, it's got to reek to high heaven with the dead bodies in there from previous zombie run ins.


​“I'm going in,” Miguel states. “Are you guys coming?”


​The other three fidget for a few moments before James throws his shoulders back, “I'm not scared. I'll go in.” What do you want to bet that if Miguel wasn't here James would have stayed out with me? I bet it's one of those boy things where you can't show you're scared. Sigh.


​Theo can't be one upped by James so he's going in and Chase is scared of James doing something stupid so he's going in to keep an eye on him. That leaves me out here by myself. Something Miguel isn't happy about, but tough luck.


​I lean against the side of the building as the guys go in. I'm tempted to sit down and rest but I don't want to risk it. With me being the only eyes out here I have to be ready to move in a split second. Of course I won't need to do that, right? Because their trip into the store will go completely fine. Actually, I think I need to be a little more pro-active.


​Rich's car, you know the guy that abducted me, is still sitting in front of the store. The doors are locked but the front passenger window is missing. I unlock the car and put it in neutral. I turn the wheel, which takes a good bit of man handling, so the tires are pointed in the direction I want the car to move.


​I get out of the car and walk to the back of it. Even as I set about my task I make sure to keep open eyes roving about. Nothing is moving on the streets. I crouch with my hips to the rear bumper of the car.


​Right on cue I hear some crashing and shouts. I plant my feet and push. “Fuuuuck,” Emerges from me in a long groan. The car slowly starts to move. I hope it's rolling in the direction I want it to. My thighs and calves burn as I push the car. Running footsteps hit the pavement. The car bumps to a stop. I get up and turn around. The guys exited the store right before the nose of the car bumped into the wide open door of the place. I race back to the drivers seat, thankful I'd left the door open, and put the car back into park.


​A passel of zombies hit the nose of the car, momentarily stuck. All of the guys stare at me in amazement. I just shrug and pick up my bag from where I'd left in on the sidewalk so it didn't get in my way when I was moving the car. I take off walking, confident I'll have turned the corner out of the zombies eyesight before they make it around the car.


​A stunned moment happens before the guys rush after me. With a look back I see it's as I predicted and the zombies haven't made it around the car yet, though they appear moments away. Yep, there it is. One of them sort of flips onto the hood then over the side. We're out of sight before it stumbles to it's feet.


​We don't exchange any words but I'm feeling a bit smug. I'm proud of myself from holding back the 'I told you so'. That store is bad luck. I'll be doing my future grocery shopping elsewhere. Miguel moves to keep step with me, though he doesn't retake the lead. I don't know if it's because he feels bad for not trusting my judgment or because I'm the one who knows best where we're going.


​“No one is hurt, right?” I break the silence to ask, though I keep my voice low so it doesn't carry far.


​“Physically? We're fine,” Theo answers self-deprecatingly. “It was that damn stock room again. There was a whole group back there.”


​“Did you at least manage to grab anything?”


​“No, in fact...” Theo trails off and I look back. It takes a moment to realize he's missing his pack. I just shake my head and leave it be. I'll give him a spare when he leaves my place.


Chapter Four


​By the time we hit my block I'm limping. I strained the hell out of my thighs when I pushed that car and my ribs are protesting if I breath too deep or try to rotate. My feet are also making their displeasure known. I won't say it out loud but I'm a bit worried I might have messed up their healing. I'll find out soon enough. I have every intention of kicking off my shoes as soon as I make it through the door of my Victorian.


​A weight instantly lifts from my shoulders as the Gothic beauty of my purple and gray Victorian comes into view. I could totally see the Addams family living here. I give myself a hard shake. I'm not there yet so I can't let my guard down.


​I'm in the lead, the guys all following behind as we make our way to the gate. With careful hands I undo the latch and open the gate. Of course it betrays me and lets out a horrible squeal as it opens. I give it a dirty look as I walk through. After a quick glance around doesn't reveal any immediate threats I usher the guys into the yard and close the gate back behind us.


​As feared, the squeak of the gate drew some attention and a couple of zombies appear from around one of the neighboring houses and head our way. I ignore them, trusting the sturdy gate to keep them out. That gate is solid metal with a firm latch that attaches to a very well built wall/fence. It's solid thick rock wall on the bottom couple of feet, and firm metal on the top extending over my head. It'd take a hell of a lot of zombies to take the thing down.


​Being the paranoid sort I don't head straight for the front door. Instead I make a circuit around the house. Despite everything I said about the fence I still make sure to check it's still secure as I make my way around. I also look to the house, making sure no windows have been broken open, doors still closed. It all looks good.


​I make another half circuit to get to the back door. I retrieve the key I have hidden. I don't carry the key on me in case I lose all my stuff. It's happened before. More than once. Does that leave me open to someone else finding the key and getting in? Yes, but that still seems better than loosing it and having to break in. It's not like I can just go out and make a bunch of spares and I'm not leaving it unlocked.


​Once we've all filed into the kitchen with the guys giving curious looks around I tell them, “Alright, let's secure the place. If someone will take the basement, it's that door over there,” I gesture to a side door. “There's this floor, then the second floor and the attic floor.”


​Miguel nods, though Theo, James, and Chase all give me questioning looks. “Um, the place was still locked?” Chase makes it a question.


​“Never trust your safety to 'it should be fine',” I tell him.


​Chase nods along, adding that bit to his growing mental notes on surviving on the outside. Theo and James still look like they think I'm crazy but move to do as I said anyway. Miguel makes the first move towards the basement door. The other guys seem thankful. They probably think it's scary down there, but it's actually a finished space that was turned into a craft room. The only thing scary down there is an obscene amount of tulle.


​Chase volunteers himself and the other two to take the upper levels so I don't have to take the stairs at the moment. Normally I'd be contrary enough to say no, but honestly I'm thankful. I'm hurting. I make my way around the entirety of the first floor, finding nothing different from the last time I was here. I should stay ready until the others are done with their checks, but I just can't force myself.


​I lower myself into an overstuffed chair with a sigh of relief. I lift my feet up onto the coffee table and lean my head back, eyes closed but for a slit. I don't have it in me to close them all the way until the guys have come back saying the place is clear.


​Miguel makes it to me first, taking a seat on the couch a couple of feet away from my chair. “Nice place,” He says appreciatively.


​“I certainly think so.” I motion towards the fire place. “That was a big selling point.”


​“Yeah, that's going to be handy here soon.”


​Miguel seems a bit uncomfortable as he sits there, his mouth opens and closes a couple of times as if he's going to say something but then thinks better of it. The odd moment is broken by the others tramping over to us.


​“Nice place,” James says as he flops down on the couch beside Miguel. Chase looks tempted to sit in the small space left between James and the arm of the couch, but with a small head shake he moves to the chair that mirrors my own instead. Theo forgoes actual seating and plops down on the coffee table.


​“I can see why you chose this place. You've got the fireplace for the winter, the Victorian architecture with transom windows to help with airflow in the summer. Plus lots of space. Yep, lots of space. Like it's a house meant for a big family,” Theo says, not at all being sly.


​I roll my eyes. “I already told you, you aren't moving in with me.”


​“What? I didn't say anything about moving in with you,” Theo says with fake affront.


​“Riiiiight.”


​“We should probably take a look at your feet, right?” Chase asks.


​“It's fine, I'll go look at them in a few minutes,” I say, waving the offer away with a hand.


​“That'll be awkward and uncomfortable. Wouldn't it be easier to let us look?” Chase says sweetly. Not even fake sweet, but the legitimate sweet of a nice person. It makes me want to both gag and give him a hug.


​“Here, I'll help,” Theo says as he turns to where my feet are resting on the same coffee table he's sitting on.


​“Touch my feet and I'll kill you,” I threaten him.


​“Oh, please,” Theo replies with a tone that says he thinks I'm joking.


​Theo grabs one of my shoes and goes after the laces. I jerk my foot away.


​“Come on, Sades, let us look at your feet,” Miguel pipes in, scooting forward so that he can reach my feet as well.


​It doesn't take much for Miguel and Theo to overpower my sore muscles. With a lot of huffing and grumbling on my part Miguel and Theo manage to pry my shoes off my feet. As soon as the pressure of the shoes is no longer on them, my feet start to throb along with my heartbeat. Lovely. Socks are peeled off. And I do mean peeled, they'd become tacky with a mixture of sweat and blood. Not an absurd amount of blood, just a bit as my healing wounds and soon to be blisters rubbed around in my shoes. The scrapes and tears on the bottom of my feet had mostly been healed before my journey, so I didn't do too much damage. Still hurts though.


​The guys agree that my feet aren't too bad off after they wipe them down with some water and a clean cloth. A little salve gets thrown on along with fresh socks. I refused to have large bandages wrapped around my feet when there's no active bleeding happening. I resist the urge to hit James as he seems to think the whole ordeal was entertaining. Asshole.


​“I'm going to go lay down. There's some food in the pantry, just take it easy and don't eat it all,” I tell the guys. James acts offended but come on, I've seen how the guy can eat, it takes a lot to maintain his muscle mass. “You can use the bedrooms on the second floor, just pick up after yourselves. Stay away from the top floor, that's my space.” I get up and start hobbling towards the stairs, waving off offers to help me. “Oh, if you didn't notice coming in, the temporary latrine is out the backdoor and to the left. If it's the middle of the night and you don't want to go outside, there's a bucket in the half bath over there.” I point towards the bathroom.


​“Got it. Don't eat all the food, don't make a mess, and don't shit in the house,” Theo summarizes.


​“Quite a way with words you've got there,” I roll my eyes and continue on my way.


Chapter Five


​Fine, I admit it. The trio are actually helpful. It started out as them just trying to do little things to help out while I was healing and turned into actually using them as free labor for things that would take forever for me to do on my own. Or stuff I just didn't want to do myself.


​In just a week they've helped me get the first floor windows boarded up. Not to the point where all light is cut off but where it would be very difficult for anything to get through them. They've also helped get wooden door bars set up. They've dug a proper latrine and set up a temporary outhouse over it, positioned well away from where I plan to garden in the spring. They've also been gathering fallen limbs from the trees around the neighborhood so I'll have wood to burn in the winter.


​Yep, Theo, James and Chase have done all of this out of the goodness of their hearts. Yeah, no. Miguel has also been a big help with all of it and actually the one to direct the other guys on what to do. Me scoffing is the fact that the trio totally didn't do it just to be helpful. Well, Chase might have, he's a sweet guy. No, the guys are hoping to wrangle an invitation to stay here with me.


​I'd be lying if I said I haven't considered it. It would be a lot easier in some ways to not be doing this on my own. On the other hand it takes a lot less supplies for one person than it does four or five. Plus, this way it won't hurt as much. They've always said the only things certain in life are death and taxes. Well, taxes may not be an issue at the moment but death sure is. Maybe it'd be different if is was by peaceful means, but I just...I don't want to bury someone else I care about. The longer the guys stick around the more I care.


<<<<<<<>>>>>>>


​From my perch on a folding lawn  chair I watch Theo and Chase debate the best way to stack the wood they've been gathering from around the neighborhood. I've no opinion on the matter but it's funny to watch them like either of them have a clue what they're talking about. As far as I know both are city boys who've never lit a fire in their life outside of fireworks.


​Miguel settles into a chair beside me, handing me a bottle of red sports drink. We sit there in silence as James joins in the debate. Chase throws his hands up in a rare show of frustration and tells the other two to do whatever they want before he flounces off around the corner.


​“You seem like you're pretty much healed up,” Miguel says, breaking the silence.


​“Yeah. Honestly I could've been helping out the last few days but it was nice having others do the grunt work.”


​Miguel gives a light chuckle before falling back into silence. “I didn't feel right leaving you injured but it's time I go.”


​“Back to the school and the lovely Brittany?” Why yes there was a lot of sarcasm in that one word.


​“Fuck no,” he says loudly before quieting himself. “No, I'm in no rush to see her anytime soon.” Yeah, who wants to be in close quarters with a cheating ex? “No, I need to go home and...see to things.”


​Well, fuck. Just like that shame and guilt creep up. The things he needs to see to would be burying his parents as their dead remains have been sitting in his yard for months now. His parents were my neighbors. Miguel's parents died because his Dad was a good guy, he was just trying to help someone when he was attacked. I saw it happen. It was in the first days of zombies rising in this city, no one really understood what was going on. I saw the attack. I froze, then I ran. I should have gone back. Bad enough I never tried to help them, but I never should have left them out there for so long.


​“I'm going with you,” I take a big gulp of my sports drink wishing for something a hell of a lot stronger.


​“You don't need to do that,” Miguel offers softly. Despite me telling him what happened with his parents he's not acted like he blames me. I blame me.


​“I'm going,” I make it a firm statement.


​“Alright,” He accepts with no further argument, “I'd like to go tomorrow. I don't know how much more time we have before the weather starts to turn.”


​I nod in agreement. The fall storms should be starting any day. We tend to get a lot of rain and heavy winds in the fall that'll turn to ice soon enough. There's still a lot to get done before the cold and ice and snow hits.


​The guys wander over. I guess they came to an agreement on how to stack the wood. Chase takes the only other lawn chair while Theo and James sprawl out their large forms on the ground. Theo and James are both tall and fit, no doubt that was an advantage to surviving the last few months. Chase is smaller and slim, so his survival was thanks to his quick brain and getting to a safe place early on.


​I give Chase a longer considering look. He's been wanting to learn more about surviving outside of the school as you never know when those skills will come in handy. Since meeting him I've thought it would be his smarts that would be his best asset, and while I still think that's true, I also think his smaller build could actually be really helpful as well. The other guys might have a leg up when it comes to fighting off the zombies, but Chase's size should make it easier to avoid them in the first place. I bet he's quick too, or will be after he stretches his legs a bit after being shut up in the school for the last few months.


​“We're heading out tomorrow,” I break the news to the guys. There's a good bit of grumbling. “I already told you all you wouldn't be staying long term so don't give me pouty faces. Besides there's a few things that need handled. Now, you three can just head straight back to the school.”


​“Three?” Theo questions, his dark eyes bouncing between me and Miguel. The smirk lingering at the corner of his mouth tells me he thinks it's because there's something naughty going on.


​“Well, Sadie is going to help me with something. If you guys don't want to head back to the school on your own you can come with us. That'll make the trip a bit longer, though,” Miguel tells them.


​“What are you guys doing?” Chase asks us.


​“I need to go home. Take care of my parents,” Miguel replies quietly.


​“Oh, Oh. Okay,” Chase realizes what he means. James seems confused but unwilling to admit it. “We'll go with you,” Chase volunteers for all three of them. The other two don't fight it, just nod their heads in acceptance.


​Looks like we'll have plenty of hands to dig.


<<<<<<<>>>>>>>


​It's a gloomy day that greets us as we head out. The sky is heavily overcast and the wind has a chill to it. Well, crap.


​“Won't the dead-heads be more active without the sun out?” Chase asks. Dead-heads is what the group at the school calls the zombies. No idea why they had to pick something different than zombie.


​“Very likely,” I admit.


​“Then should we wait?” Theo asks, eyes scouring the sky.


​“We don't have a way of knowing the weather forecast, it could be several days before it's really sunny again,” I point out. Theo nods in acceptance. Besides, even if we knew for certain tomorrow would be sunny, I don't think Miguel would wait. He's been waiting long enough.


​The immediate neighborhood is free of zombies. That's in large part thanks to Miguel, he held guard and took out the few zombies wandering around as the other three went around the neighboring yards collecting fallen limbs for firewood for me.


​I'm in the lead as we head out, Miguel taking the rear and the other three between us. I'm once again armed in my preferred method. I've got a mini-sledge hammer on one hip and a hatchet on the other. A back up hammer and knife are in my backpack as well as a knife strapped to my ankle. Best to be prepared.


​It's slow going as the zombies are still out in droves. They're almost as active as they are at full dark. That doesn't speak well for the coming months where overcast, shorter days will be the norm. Well, that's a future problem, all-be-it a near future problem, but right now I've got other things to focus on.


​We've avoided a few groups of zombies but I don't think we're going to be able to avoid this one. There's a group of five ahead of us, shuffling down the street. They've stopped at each car they've passed, pushing up against them, sniffing at the windows. It's disturbing to watch. They've retained enough to know that prey comes in cars. I keep expecting one of them to use a handle to open a car door. That, thankfully, doesn't happen. I don't know if it's just that most of the zombies I deal with are in their day stupor, but this group seems smarter than the ones I'm used to.


​I chance taking my eyes off them for a moment to have a silent conversation with the guys. We're all crouched down behind a car. “I think we need to take them out,” I mouth at the guys.


​“Can't we just avoid them?” Chase asks, also only an exaggerated movement of his mouth, no sound emerging.


​“Too late for that,” I mouth back with a head shake. At this point they'll notice us if we try to leave. They're only a couple cars away from us. The only possible retreat is the building behind us, but with it's busted windows and door hanging from it's hinges, it reeks of somewhere the zombies usually hole up during the day. I don't fancy running into a building full of zombies trying to avoid the ones in front of us.


​Hands tighten on weapons as the guys get ready for what's to come. I pull my hammer and hatchet out from my belt. Deep breath in. Deep breath out. A loaded look passes between Miguel and I as the shuffle of the zombies' feet draws close. With a nod of my head we all jump to our feet. I hone in on the zombie closest to me. The others  move out, heading for their own targets.


​The zombie before me has on soiled scrubs that were likely green as some point. Poor guy was likely in the healthcare field. Healthcare workers were among the first wave to get their vaccines. Any pity I might feel for the guy has to take a back seat. The only thing that matters right now is that he, it, wants to bite my face off. What's with that? So many of them go right for the face instead of meatier bits.


​It's a messy blur of movement as the zombie comes at me, it's arm span is longer than mine. I duck and twist as I swing with my hammer in my right hand. I'm not getting any solid hits to it's head. I'm shoved back into the car hard. Those ribs had just started feeling better, damn it. I lash out with a foot, nailing the side of one of it's knees. It's stumbles down enough for me to reach it's head easily. Two forceful swings crack it's head open, brain matter squishing under the head of my hammer. Scrub zombie goes down and won't be getting back up.


​I turn my attention towards the next threat. Chase is keeping a zombie at arms length as he hits it with the pink baseball bat. He's landing some solid hit's but they aren't to it's head. I come behind the zombie. It's about my height so it's easy to nail it in the head.


​Chase and I both turn to see what's next but the only one's standing there are Theo, James and Miguel. We're all panting hard as we take each other in. Coming to the conclusion that we all seem to be in one piece we move on.


​Later I might be bothered by just how easy it is to put down what used to be fellow human beings, but that time is not right now. For now I just need to keep moving. Besides, it's not like I can just make an appointment with a therapist these days.


Chapter Six


​Despite the heavy threat of the looming clouds we make it to our destination without the skies opening up. It took four hours to slowly walk what once would have been a short car ride. A lot of that time was due to trying to wait for small groups of zombies to pass us by. None of the groups were large, we might have been able to take a few more out but we erred on the side of caution when possible. Fighting is quite a workout and we still have some hard labor ahead of us.


​Even with the cool breeze, I'm covered in a fine layer of sweat as we inch our way onto the street I grew up on. Side by side the houses Miguel and I grew up in sit. I ignore my old house, overlooking the remains of the zombies we'd put down the last time I was here. I'd fully believed my last visit would be just that- my last. No reason to disrupt that thought. We're here for Miguel. No reason to go into my house. Or the back yard. I've already said my last goodbyes. The grave in my backyard doesn't call to me anymore.


​Theo, James, and Chase hang back a few feet while Miguel and I walk up to his yard. Miguel is frozen, eyes trained on the body that's mostly rags and bone at this point. No doubt it's quick decomposition was thanks to being left out in the open for months. I walk to Miguel's side.


​“Is that...?” Is all Miguel is able to verbalize as he motions towards the remains.


​“Yeah. That's your Dad,” I confirm quietly.


​He nods his head a few times, stuck in the moment. “Okay. Um, I guess I need to get a shovel. Where, where's Mom?”


​Queasiness grips me as I admit, “I'm not sure. The last I saw she was close to your Dad.”


​That chokes him up a bit. He struggles for a few moments to choke down the sob you know is trying to break through. “Right. Well, we can at least...we can lay Dad to rest.”


​“Of course.” I motion the other guys up. “Chase, you remember where the key to my place is?” He nods an affirmative. “Can you guys go over there and get any shovels out of the garage. There's a couple of them.” I'm certain of it as I put them back after I used them to bury my own Mother.


​“Dad. Dad should have one,” Miguel says.


​“Extra shovels won't hurt anything.”


<<<<<<<>>>>>>>


​In the course of looking for his Dad's shovel, Miguel and I discover his Mother's remains, or at least part of them, around the side of the house hidden in the high grass. We both recognize the pattern on the remnants of clothing as being one of Mrs. Rodriguez's favorite shirts. Unfortunately, not all of her is there, both legs are missing. It was that realization that finally broke the dam and sent Miguel sobbing.


​I held him until he was able to pull himself together. The other three pretended they didn't notice it happen. Freaking guys. Would it kill them to acknowledge emotions? Between the five of us it  only takes a couple of hours to dig the hole in the back yard. We only dig one, Miguel thinking his parents should be laid to rest together. The remains were collected in the nicest sheets from the house before being gently laid down in the grave.


​It's a somber evening as we take shelter in the Rodriguez house. I offered my house up, despite never wanting to set foot in it again, but Miguel declined. He needed to be in his parents house, to say goodbye.


​There were no cans of spagettios or ravioli in the cabinets, which disappointed James the most of all. We split a couple can's of corn and black beans, with some pears for dessert. Miguel decided to bed down in his childhood bedroom. The guestroom was offered up but the rest of us decided to camp out in the living room. Chase got the couch straight out of the 80's, covered in a large floral pattern. Theo and James made pallets on the floor, while I took the recliner.


​Very little conversation played out. We mainly just made plans to head back out in the morning. I'll accompany the guys to the school before heading back to my place alone. Now that I'm in fighting shape I won't need an escort home. Though I have a very strong feeling the guys are going to try convincing me to let them come home with me.


<<<<<<<>>>>>>>


​Unable to sleep and feeling a bit anxious I slowly get up from the recliner, trying to be as quiet as possible and not wake the others. I head down the hallway that's graced with decades worth of pictures of the Rodriguez family. Doing my best to be as quiet as possible I turn the door knob and ease the door open to Miguel's childhood bedroom.


​The little bit of moonlight that makes it's way through the window reveals that Miguel is not sleeping. He's sitting on the edge of his bed, shoulders slumped and head buried in his hands. I ease my way in. Saying nothing I sit down beside him and put my arm around his shoulders, silently offering whatever comfort I can. I know just how devastating it is to lose your parents.


​Eventually we lay down with me playing the role of big spoon. Miguel's tears are a quiet thing that don't stop until he finally drifts off to sleep. It takes me longer to fall asleep, all of the what if's playing through my head wondering if there was anyway I could have spared my friend this pain.


<<<<<<<>>>>>>>


​Besides a few mementos that Miguel grabs, we don't take anything from his parents house, not even the canned goods. While it's a bit wasteful to leave the food I just can't bring myself to take anything.


​We have a bit of a late start heading out just because we're all sore from yesterday.  Yesterday's cloud cover hasn't dissipated. If anything the sky is even darker today, the threat of rain imminent. Just like yesterday, the lack of sunshine has the zombies still out walking around despite it being after nine in the morning.


​An hour into our slow crawl the sky delivers on it's promise, releasing a deluge of rain. Within minutes we're all soaked to the bone.


​“Should we head back or find somewhere nearby to get out of the rain? We've still got a ways to go before the school.” Theo asks, having to speak loudly to be heard over the rain.


​“I'd rather not go back,” Miguel tells us with a head shake.


​“Then, I guess lets look around?” Chase questions.


​“Sadie?”


​“Huh?” I'm not really paying attention to them anymore as they debate what building to try. I'm distracted as I observe a couple of zombies down the road. It's hard to make them out through the heavy rainfall, but it looks like they've stopped moving. They'd been slowly trudging along but now they're completely still.


​“What are you looking at?” Miguel asks softly, following my eye line.


​“Those zombies aren't moving,” I point out.


​“Okay?” He questions, not getting it.


​“I wonder if it's just them.” He doesn't seem to get what I'm thinking. “If they aren't moving around then this might be the perfect time to keep going.”


​“But the rain,” James whines, drawing out the word rain.


​“We're already soaked,” I point out. “I little more rain won't hurt. At our current pace it's going to take forever to get to the school. Maybe we can speed up now, cut the time down.”


​There's a little back and forth before they consent.


​“We'll try it out,” Miguel says. “If it seems like all the zombies have stopped, we'll keep going. If the other zombies are still roaming around then we should hunker down, as visibility is really shit right now.”


​“Totally agree.”


<<<<<<<>>>>>>>


​“Not a word,” I bite out in embarrassment as I pick myself up out of the mud and other yuckiness that I'm choosing not to think about.


​Everything was going all well and good. The storm really had slowed down the zombies so we were able to pick up speed. Yep, it was going just great until I literally ran right into a zombie. Turn corner and bam, face full of zombie. If that wasn't bad enough, when I stepped back my foot slid out from under me and off I went tumbling ass over tea kettle. Then it's Chase of all people who comes to the rescue and dispatches said zombie with his pink bat.


​Muffled laughter and choked coughing come from the guys, which I choose to ignore. Nothing to see here, nothing happened. Just going to completely ignore the fact that I somehow got mud everywhere, including down my pants and into my socks. I now squelch with every foot step. Lovely. Whose idea was it to parade around in the rain? Oh, right. It was mine, damn it.


​Miguel takes over the lead. I don't fight it. Let him be the next one to run into a zombie and slip on his ass. We don't have much further to go, the school is just a couple blocks away at this point. As we approach it's easy to notice the school residents have been at work. The previously damaged gate and fencing are back up and repaired. It looks like some tarp, maybe, has been attached to some of the fencing as well. Out of sight is often out of mind for the zombies. Guess Frank has started using his brain finally.


​As we skulk our way up to the gate a figure pops up from behind a car. Theo and James move to the front of our group to talk to the guy on the other side of the fence. After a few moments the gate is opened just enough for us to slip through before quickly being secured again.


​The rain has it too dark to really see but you can tell that more work has been done around the outside of the school to better defend. We're let in the door then stopped from going any further. A lone flashlight is the only light and it's shined right at us.


​“What's going on?” James asks.


​“Security protocol has changed in the last few days,” One guy explains. I recognize him by sight but don't remember his name. “Jim's gone to grab Frank.


​“Okay?”James responds with confusion.


​It doesn't take long for Frank to make his way to us. Usually when he sees me his expression is one of grumpiness and annoyance. Right now it just reads as tired and stressed.


​“You guys are going to have to be examined before we let you in any further,” Frank says.


​“Examined? What are you looking for?” I ask in pure confusion. Does he think we're sneaking in contraband, or what?


​“Bites.”


​“Bites? Why are you looking for bites?” I sure didn't expect that answer.


​“I'll explain after. Just, please. Doc Tim is on his way to check you all out. Sadie, if you'd be more comfortable I can call down Dr. Connors,” Franks offers.


​“No, I'm fine with Doc Tim. It's not like he hasn't examined me before anyway.”


​Soon enough Doc Tim has made his way to us. One by one we're all taken into the nearest room, a large single bathroom. A fairly bright lantern is turned on in the bathroom so Doc Tim can check out all the nooks and crannies. I'm given a towel to clean up the mud drying on me so he can really see everything. Honestly, he seemed more awkward about it than I did, a bright red blush suffusing his face. Several long minutes pass before we're reassembled.


​“All clear. Nothing fresh,” Doc Tim tells Frank, pushing his ever unruly hair out of his eyes.


​“Now can you tell us what's going on?” I ask with more than a little sass.


​Instead of Frank's normal huffing that would come with my snark he lets out a tired sigh. “A couple days ago we had a dead-head attack.”


​We all just wait because there obviously has to be more to it than that.


​“It was Janice,” Frank says.


​“Janice was attacked? That sucks, she's always been so nice. Did she make it? Also, that still doesn't explain all this,” Chase motions around to all of us.


​“Janice was the zombie.”


​“What? That's not possible,” Chase exclaims, jaw dropping in disbelief.


​“Yeah, well it happened. Couple of mornings ago screaming comes from the women's dorm. Get over there to find Janice trying to attack the other ladies in there. Fortunately no one else was hurt.”


​“How is that possible?” I ask, looking towards Doc Tim.


​Arms cross in front of him and shoulders slump as Doc Tim responds. “It's not like we know much about this, but going off the last few months this shouldn't be possible. From all accounts and observations the only way to turn was to get the bad vaccine. There have been no new zombies as far as I'm aware, until now. Janice never got the vaccine. The only thing that's happened with her recently is that she was bitten by a zombie while out looking for supplies.”


​“But, that just... I've been bitten a few times, clawed up as well. Still human.” I start pacing the few short feet I can in the hallway.


​“It's the only thing that we're aware of. Janice was healthy when she went out. She got bitten while out. When she came back she stopped by to see me. I dressed the wound. It looked like most bites I've seen. Then a couple mornings later she's turned. The bite is the only thing to go off of,” Tim explains, just as perplexed as the rest of us.


​“There's got to be another explanation. If bites can start turning you...” I trail off.


​“We're all fucked,” Frank fills in.


​“One case isn't a pattern, right?” I ask Doc Tim.


​“Right,” he confirms.


​“Then we need to find out if she's the only instance.”


​“She's the only one in camp that's been bitten in the last week. Unless or until someone else is bitten, it's all I have to go off of. I'm just a medical doctor, not a researcher or virologist. I'm lost here.”


​“No one's going out for now, right?” I ask Frank.


​“Yeah. But that can't last long. We've got to get more supplies before winter hits. Not optional.”


​“Okay. Well, then we need to see if there is a pattern, if there are any other new zombies,” I state.


​“How?” Frank asks me.


​“Check in with some of the other groups.”


​A low groan comes from Miguel. I'd been so focused on Frank and Doc Tim I'd sort of forgotten the others were around. Damn, that's not good. Always be aware of your surroundings.


​“Do we at least get to dry out before going back out?” Miguel asks.


​“Well, yeah, but I sort of figured I'd just go out on my own.”


​“Of course you did. Not happening, Red,” Miguel tells me before he starts striding away, presumably to go get dried off somewhere.


​“You know I don't like being called that,” I call after him. His only response is a hand waved over his shoulder. I really don't like that nickname, it's so unoriginal calling a red-head 'red'.


​“So, where are we going?” James asks from over my shoulder.


​I hang my head in defeat. Unless I sneak out they're all going to follow me, aren't they?


Chapter Seven


​The decision is made to rest up for the remainder of the day and head out in the morning. I'm not thrilled to be back at the school but at least I get some dry clothes and a warm meal. One of the reasons I'm not a fan of the school corners me as I'm heading back from a visit to the restroom.


​“You can't have him, he's my husband,” Brittany snarls at me, the fake sweet voice she puts on in public missing from this interaction. “Besides, you're not even his type so you shouldn't even be panting after him.” She sneers at me down her nose from the couple inches of height she has on me. Blonde, thin, pretty. She's the total package if you can get past the abysmal personality.


​A heavy sigh escapes me. “If I'm not his type then why are you even worried? Also, he's not yours anymore. You ruined that when you cheated on him.”


​She's like an evil barbie with her blonde hair styled sleekly and face done up in makeup including very pink lipstick. Her expression twists in disgust. “It was one little mistake and he'll forgive me soon enough as long as your red-headed skanky ass leaves him alone.”


​“Oh my god. I'm so done with this drama. I haven't been 'panting' after Miguel. I haven't been trying to seduce him. Just leave me alone,” I emphatically say to her complete with hand flaps.


​“That's because you don't have to try to seduce me,” sounds out. Miguel, of course. Because that's what this situation needed. “You need to stop it Brittany. Our marriage ended when you cheated on me. And from my understanding it was more than once.”


​“But it was just one guy. And it was because you weren't giving me enough attention, always working,” She tries to defend in a whiny voice.


​“Wow,” sneaks out of me.


​“One guy too many. And I was always working because I was saving to build our dream home. If things had gone to plan the divorce would be finalized by now. As far as I'm concerned, it is. So, it's none of your business if I do show interest in someone else. Move on,” Miguel says. The striking thing is he sounds more tired then angry.


​“Come on, Sades. We've got a meeting to get to.”


​I follow after Miguel, passing by Brittany. Miguel may be done with her but from her expression she's far from done with him.


<<<<<<<>>>>>>>


​The meeting ends up being Me, Miguel, James, Theo, and Chase along with Frank and a woman named Virginia who's one of the people in charge at the school. When I first met Virginia with all her put togetherness-styled hair, makeup and pressed clothing, I wasn't certain whether I liked her or not. Definitely leaning towards not. She used to be a CEO and seams to think she still is.


​“I understand you all will be the ones going out to check in with other groups to see if they've had any incidents like ours.” She doesn't phrase it as a question, which is fine as I already decided to do it. Interesting way to phrase having a resident zombify and attack, though. We all nod in affirmation. “Very good. It's come to our attention that there is a group to our northeast. They've set up by the Ford and Toyota dealerships over their. That's where you'll be going to get information.”


​An undignified snort escapes me followed by me chuckling out a “No.”


​“Excuse me?” Virginia asks with attitude.


​I clear my throat. “Sorry, I meant to say, No way in Hell.”


​Virginia's eyes narrow at me daring to contradict her. “I'm telling you this is where you will be going.”


​“No,” I repeat with a smile.


​For once being a voice of reason, Frank chimes in rather calmly, “Sadie?”


​“Yes, Frank?”


​“Is there a reason you don't want to go there?”


​“Thank you for asking, Frank. As a matter of fact there is. That group at the dealerships is a bunch of bikers. Not the fun charity run type of bikers, either. No, that group is the illegal activities type of group. They like guns, drugs, and pussy whether it's willing or not.” Virginia gets a disgusted look when I say pussy. I hear cursing come from a couple of the guys. “So, I will not be visiting them.”


​“I thought you volunteered to check with another group?” Virginia asks through clenched teeth.


​“I did say I'd check with other groups, and I fully plan on doing so. There are a couple groups that I've interacted with before that I plan to approach. Then, out of the goodness of my heart, I'll let you guys know what I find out. Because I'm not part of this group. As in not someone you can order around.” I meet Virginia's glare head on with a giant friendly smile. I don't think I've made a friend there.


​“We'd greatly appreciate it if you would let us know what you learn. Would you mind letting us know where some of those groups are? It seems like something we should know?” Frank asks politely. I didn't realize he was capable of being polite. Do I normally just bring out his worse side? Nah, it couldn't possibly be me.


​“Sure. Happy to help,” I reply in a bright happy tone.


​Frank shakes his head at me. What? I was pleasant. I didn't yell or curse her out.


<<<<<<<>>>>>>>


​I decide to hunt down Doc Tim, see if there's absolutely anything more he can give me to go off of. It doesn't take much to find him as he's in his office as usual. His space used to be the nurse's office. It's not a big room with most of it occupied with a desk and a medical table/cot. He's not alone. There's a guy, kid really, who looks like he's maybe sixteen years old. He's about my height, though gangly, like he's had a growth spurt that hasn't filled in yet. His dirty blond hair is shaggily cut to his ears.


​“Oh, sorry to interrupt. I'll wait out here until you guys are done.”


​“Come on in. This isn't a patient. Sadie this is Brandon. He's learning to be my assistant. Brandon this is Sadie,” Doc Tim introduces us with a smile as he bounds up from his chair.


​I offer my hand to Brandon. He shakes it giving me an obligate smile. “Nice to meet you.”


​“How can I help you? Don't tell me you've managed to injure yourself in the last few hours?” Doc Tim asks me.


​“Gee, you act like I get hurt all the time,” I gripe at him.


​“You forget I've treated you before?” He jokes back, pushing a curl away from where it flopped in front of his eyes.


​I shrug. He's right, he has seen just how many scars I've picked up in the last few months. I like to think of it less as me being accident prone or a magnet for trouble and more like I'm good at getting myself out of bad situations. I am the one still standing after all.


​“No new injuries. I was hoping I could talk to you about Janice some more.” I lean back against the wall by the door while Doc Tim retakes his chair and Brandon sits on the edge of the medical cot.


​“Of course, though I honestly don't know if I have much more to tell you,” He admits with a tired sigh.


​“Just every little thing you can remember. It might also help if I could look at...her remains,” I say as delicately as possible.


​“Well, that last might be problematic. Janice has already been...removed. We don't exactly have the facilities to hold any remains. After my exam she was taken to the closest cemetery,” Doc Tim informs me. How very human of them to take her to a cemetery. That's a rarity these days.


​“Okay, that's understandable. So, just every little thing you can remember.”


​Doc Tim settles back, arms crossed over his chest, legs man sprawled as he falls back into his memory to try and recall as much as possible. “Janice came here right after she got back from a supply run. She had a bite in her upper left arm. The bite honestly wasn't too bad. I've seen much worse.” He gives me a pointed look. What? It's not like I let the zombies gnaw on me on purpose. “She'd mostly stopped bleeding by the time she got to me, they'd wrapped her up before coming back. Um, so, the bite wasn't too bad. I cleaned it up. It didn't need stitches so after I cleaned it up I put some antibiotic ointment on it. I put a clean bandage on her. That bite was her only injury other than some accompanying bruising. She voiced no other complaints.”


​He shifts a bit before continuing. “A couple of mornings later I was woken up by screaming. By the time I got to the women's dorm Janice had already been put down. Luckily she didn't manage to injure anyone. Afterward I did as thorough of an exam as I could without doing an actual autopsy. Other than the existing bite and bruising on her arm the only other injuries I found on her were some post mortem abrasions and the head injury from where one of the guys put her down.” Doc finishes his recollections.


​I start asking some clarifying remarks, “Head injury?”


​“Tire iron I believe, blunt force.”


​“How sure are you that the other abrasions were post mortem?”


​“As certain as I can be without examining the flesh beneath a microscope.”


​I nod my head, accepting this. He'd know better than me. “How certain are you that she didn't hurt, didn't bite, anyone?”


​“Fairly certain. Frank had me examine everyone who was in the room with her. He wanted everyone in the school examined but Virginia put an ax to that and just allowed for everyone who was in the room. Though, as you saw, we'll also be checking everyone who goes out.”


​I tap my foot as I run through all that information. “Do you know where she was getting supplies from, where she was attacked?”


​It's Brandon who answers. Up until now he'd just been observing the conversation. “We were at the pharmacy on Baker street.”


​“You were there, too?” I ask with some surprise. I didn't realize they were letting kids go on runs.


​“Yeah, I'm the one who field dressed Janice,” He tells me with pride.


​Hmm. “Nothing struck you as strange about her wound?” I ask. He shakes his head no. “Did you see the attack?” He nods yes. “Anything seem strange about that?”


​“No, just seemed like your average dead-head. It was in the women's restroom. Attacked Janice as soon as she opened the door to check in there.” Brandon gives a shrug. “Just an average attack.”


​“Did you guys kill it?”


​“Yeah, Jim, one of the other guys with us, took it down.”


​“Was it harder to kill than normal? Absolutely anything about it that might be different from other zombies?”


​“No. Jim had a bat and it went down after like two hits. It looked like every other zombie I've seen, smelled just as bad as every other zombie, too. Sorry.”


​“No, that's helpful. So, the body would still be at the pharmacy?”


​“I'd imagine so. We just left it there. No reason not to.”


​“Alright. Thank you both for the information,” I tell them, straightening away from the wall so I can head out.


​“Be careful out there. Try not to get gnawed on by any more zombies,” Doc Tim tells me.


​“I'll take that under advisement. Why don't you just worry about a hair cut?,” I snark at him as I walk away.


​“What's wrong with my hair?” he calls after me but I don't respond.


Chapter Eight


​It's a thankfully bright day as we set out. I'm in a surprisingly okay mood. I managed to avoid any further interactions with just about everyone including Miguel's increasingly psycho ex, Brittany, my Dad, and Virginia in all her 'you will listen to me'-ness. I even got some decent sleep as Theo didn't assault me with his hellacious snoring. Miss Kate, one of the OG residents of the school and the woman you don't want to get on the bad side of as she's in charge of the kitchen, provided us with some coffee. The good stuff too, not just the easy instant stuff. I may be in love with her. Not enough to shack up at the school but enough that I might try an lure her away to my house.


​As promised, I'd let Frank know where a couple of the other settlements are. Of course I didn't tell him that I know about more than just those two. The ones I told him about are larger settlements, the smaller family groups I kept to myself. Not to be a dick, though I'm completely capable of doing that. No, it's because the small family groups prefer to stay on the down low so they don't get raided by others. People are assholes and if they think they'll have an easier time taking from you than going out and getting stuff on their own, well they'll choose that easier option and fuck anyone they might hurt along the way. I'm not jaded, you are.


​“Where to first?” Chase asks with a bit of excitement. You'd think with all the crap we keep running into he'd be hesitant to get out there. But no, he's treating this like some type of quest or mystery to solve. Like it's fun. Eh, to each their own I guess.


​I break out the hand drawn map I'd made last night when I was talking to Frank about other survivor groups. Flattening the paper out on top of a nearby car hood  I point out a location southwest of the school. “Right there. There's a group just a bit smaller than what you've got at the school. Or at least the last time I spoke with them a couple of months ago there were about seventy or eighty of them.”


​“Really?” James asks, crowding in. He seems both surprised and excited. I'm honestly shocked they hadn't run into them before as they really aren't that far away. No doubt very soon they'll be hitting up the same places looking for supplies.


​“Yeah, it's mostly family groups that banded together. Several of them are former military so they're fairly well secured. Shouldn't have any issues talking with them, though you should be prepared that they'll have guns trained on us the whole time,” I explain.


​“Seriously?” James asks in disbelief.


​“Yes. They are fully aware of just how horrible other humans can be. Alright, let's get moving.” I shove the map back into the side pocket of my bag. Our little meeting took place at an abandoned car a block away from the school. We probably should have gone over it before leaving but I was all for getting out of there before something came along to ruin my morning.


​With it being bright out today there's not a lot of movement, most of the zombies have sought shade and shelter. Even being so bright out we make sure to keep chatter to a minimum so as not to attract attention. My hand never strays far from my hammer, ready to grab it at the first sign of trouble. We trade off who leads and who brings up the rear as we move along.


​We make excellent time traversing several blocks with no issue. That should be a good thing, right? I don't trust the silence. I'm never this lucky. Something's going to happen and it's going to suck big time. The only other one to also be put off by our seeming good fortune is Miguel. After months of being on the road, making it across several states, he's probably got excellent instincts by now. Yeah, the way his shoulders get tighter with each passing minute, he definitely knows that somethings going to happen.


​Yep, there it is.


<<<<<<<>>>>>>>


​Why did I have to be right? I bitch to myself as I dig in my feet to stop them from slipping, my back pressed to the door we're desperately trying to keep closed.


​We had passed by an alley that contained a large group of zombies hiding in the shadows. They of course saw a tasty snack walking right in front of them and gave chase. We didn't have anywhere close enough of a lead to try and out run them so we took the chance and ducked into a building. Some office building that was probably posh a few decades ago but is just another aging building now. We pushed the doors closed behind us but the latch is broken.


​As the last person in my back immediately went to keeping the door closed. Miguel was quick to plant his shoulder into it, trying to help as me alone just isn't cutting it. The door keeps heaving as the zombies pile against it. Theo and James are trying to maneuver a heavy ass cabinet over to take our place in front of the door to buy us a few precious moments to run.


​Chase has his bat up in ready position facing into the rest of the building as we have no idea if we're alone in here. Not that we'd be able to see much as it's dark as hell in here. The guys finally get the cabinet over and slide it in front of the door with heavy groans of effort allowing me and Miguel to move away.


​“Fucking hell,” James gasps as he leans against the cabinet. A cabinet that scoots a few centimeters.


​“Damn it,” I curse. “Start moving.”


​A couple of us dig out flashlights as we move quickly through the building. Of course it's not a simple through and through with an exit straight back from the entrance. That would be too easy, wouldn't it? My eyes catch on a sign for the stairwell. I'd rather not move up unless we absolutely have to. Better to find a quicker way out.


​An echoing squeak rings through the building, the sound of the heavy cabinet sliding across the tile floor. Fuck. Out of time I shove the guys to the stairwell to get us out of sight. Unless they sense prey zombies don't usually go up stairs, or any inclines in general. They tend to take the path of least resistance. Oh really, Sadie? Then why were they forcing themselves through a closed door if they take the path of least resistance? Well, snarky voice in my head, they saw prey.


​Reaching the second floor, we duck into an open office and close the door behind us. This one actually latches, it even has a working lock which we engage. Of course that means we just locked ourselves in with at least one zombie judging from the curses the guys let out and some rather moist sounding moans. How do they even moan? You have to breath to make sound. The dead don't really need to breath, do they? Okay, no time for that particular rabbit hole.


​I close my eyes for a moment and take a deep breath, reminding myself that I volunteered for this. I sure do make bad decisions, don't I? I turn around to face the problem. Luckily it's not really a problem anymore. Looks like there were two of them and the guys have already taken care of it.


​Okay, next steps. A desk gets pushed up against the door to back up the lock in case anything tries to get through. There are two other doors inside the office. Instead of exploring them, chairs and filing cabinets get shoved in front of them.


​Miguel opens a window after a bit of struggling. The rest of us crowd around to look out. No zombies loitering in the parking lot bellow us. At least that's a plus in our favor. There's even a dumpster below us, that'll make getting down a lot easier. Jumping from the second floor might not be life threatening on it's own but it does come with a large risk for rolled ankles. Hopefully the dumpster will help us all avoid that fate.


​Sounds from the hallway let us know that the window really is our only choice. Nothing's trying to break down the door but it'll only take a small noise to draw attention. I wave my hand around to get everyone's attention. Using my hands for emphasis I mouth 'let's rest for a couple of minutes, then go'. Nods of agreement from everyone.


​Doing our best not to make any noise we get into slightly more comfortable positions to rest for a few minutes and catch our breath before we have to take off at a mad dash again. I end up sitting on the floor. Not the best position to quickly jump up from, but I am tired. You'd think I'd be used to all the cardio by this point, but I sure as hell am not. Throw in the muscle fatigue from trying to keep that door closed, and I am thoroughly exhausted.


​Not at all ready, I still motion for us to get moving after we've rested for several minutes. With no prompting, Miguel steps up to be the first to go out. Smoother than I know I'll manage, but still awkward looking, Miguel moves feet first out the window, forearms and biceps bunching as he holds hard to the window sill. With a push back Miguel lets go of the window, a small thump signaling his landing on the closed dumpster lid. A quick look shows him safely standing on the dumpster. After a few moments of scanning his surrounding, Miguel motions for the next person to jump down as he climbs off the dumpster.


​With a roll of his shoulders and a crack of the neck James goes next. His landing isn't nearly as smooth as Miguel's was, but he still makes it down safely. Theo motions for Chase to go next but he shakes his head and motions Theo to go instead.


​Chase is clutching his pink baseball bat in tight fists and his breathing is coming in hard pants as he looks at the window. I put my hand on his shoulder causing him to jump. “Sorry,” he mouths at me.


​“Are you okay?”


​“Not a big fan of heights,” he admits in a whisper.


​Well crap. It may only be the second floor, but to someone who's scared of heights it might as well be the twentieth. That's okay. It'll totally be okay. Because it has to be. I'm not leaving his ass up here and I'm not fighting through a building full of zombies due to a little fear of heights.


​I take Chase's shoulders in my hands and turn him so we're more or less eye to eye. “You can do this. It really isn't that far down. Just a few feet, that's all. Also, you really don't have a choice. It's either out that window or back out there with all the zombies,” I jerk my head towards the door where we can here shuffling in the hallway. “And, hey, James is down there waiting for you.” Chase gives me an 'are you kidding me' look. I just shrug. We all know he's crushing on the guy.


​Chase takes a deep breath, closing his eyes. When he opens them back up he's got a determined glint in his eyes. “That a boy,” I tell him, which earns me an eye roll so big I'm surprised his eyes didn't get stuck. I take the bat and tuck it into the bag on his back in a way that should see it arriving safely on the ground with him.


​Judging by the clumsy way Chase is moving out of the window I'd say he doesn't have a lot of experience sneaking out of houses. He seems to get it, though, as he backs out of the window. Oh, crap. Chase's hands slip and he tumbles down before he's ready. A cut off yelp escapes him followed by a harsh thud. I hang my head out the window to get a look at him. The other guys are quick to help him. He's got a grimace on his face as James and Theo help him down from the dumpster. Well, he's obviously alive, so that's a win, right?


​Looks like it's my turn, and I need to do it quickly given the 'hurry the hell up' motions Miguel is sending my way. First one leg then the other move out the window, my weight resting uncomfortably on my stomach as I shimmy my way back. The pressure on my ribs really sucks. I grip the window sill with my hands as I slowly lower myself. Fuck. My arms strain and threaten to give out. I really should have been exercising more lately instead of letting the guys do all the lifting. I'm able to hold on long enough to plant a foot against the wall and push off a bit before letting go. In short seconds I land on the dumpster lid. I totally stick the landing.


​Jumping off the dumpster I land in some mud that squishes under my feet. Of course it's mud. I refuse to think it might be anything else even if I am by a dumpster.


​With a grimace, Miguel informs me that Chase twisted his ankle when he landed on top of the dumpster. Well fuck. We have to keep moving, this area is not a good one to try and hole up in. We aren't terribly far from our first destination, we just need to push until we get there, then Chase can rest up his ankle.


​I flip my bag around to my front so I can dig through it without having to put it down on the muddy ground. I remove an ace bandage from my first aid kit. Miguel keeps a look out while James and Theo help hold Chase steady as he balances on one foot. I make quick work of removing Chase's shoe and sock. I get his ankle wrapped up. I hope that his ankle not looking swollen or bruised yet means it's not a serious injury and he just turned it. His sock and shoe go back on. I do make sure to pull the laces tight, though not too tight, and double knot them. Nothing sucks more than a shoe flying off as you're running for your life.


​“Alright, I'm the closest height to Chase so I'll be the one walking with him so he can lean on me if need be. James? If push comes to shove, do you think you can run with him on your back?”


​James flashes a cocky grin. “Of course, dude's pocket sized.”


​Chase glares at James while I choke back a snort.


Chapter Nine


​Got to hand it to Chase, he toughs it out like a champ. He doesn't complain and only lets on that he's in pain with the occasional grunt, though his face holds a grimace rather than his usual earnest expression. When we passed more open areas that required a bit more speed I did wrap his arm around my shoulder to help him, but other than that he pushed through his pain and hobbled along with us. James doesn't get to prove his prowess by running with Chase on his back as the only zombies we run into are loners that Miguel and Theo take out with ease.


​Once we get within a couple of blocks from our destination the scenery changes a bit. Instead of the disorganized chaos that's found on the majority of the city streets, there's order here. Cars have been moved around to create barriers. The cars are easy enough for the living sort to climb around or over, but it's good at stopping the zombies that aren't known for their great thinking abilities or dexterity.


​“Wait,” Chase says as he sees the cars. “This doesn't look right.” He gestures at the cars.


​“Yep,” I toss him a smile. “First line of defense to the group we're visiting. I totally plan on doing the same around my place.”


​“Thank fuck,” James whines. “I'm tired of walking.”


​“Quit complaining you big cry baby,” Theo says as he pushes James shoulder with a smile.


​“We're going to go over these cars, but we're going to stop when we reach the next set,” I explain to the guys, gesturing towards the cars about half way down the block from where we are.


​“Why?” Miguel asks with a frown as he looks around the area.


​“Best not to spook these guys,” Is all the explanation I provide as I start urging Chase over the hood of a navy sedan. I give him a little boost to help out and immediately follow. I grimace at the noise we make as we dent the hood of the car but it can't be helped. Small rusty sounding squeaks signal the other three guys have made it over as well.


​With Chase's arm draped over my shoulder I help him as we approach the next set of cars. I stop us a couple feet away, trying to make it clear we're not attempting to cross them at this point in time. I lower Chase down so he can sit on the ground and take weight off his ankle.


​“What are we waiting for?” Miguel asks in a tense voice as he scans our surroundings.


​Answer comes by way of a swooshing sound and an arrow sticking in a tree that's planted between the sidewalk and road just a few feet away from us. “That,” I tell the startled guys as they drop to the ground out of fear of more flying arrows. Cupping my hands around my mouth to help project my voice I call out, “You missed, Dickhead.”


​“What the fuck, Sadie? Get down here,” Miguel hisses, tugging on my pants leg.


​I maintain my standing position. A few moments pass before a voice calls from further down the street. “Damn it. Is that you, crazy redhead?”


​Hands once again cupped around my mouth, I call out with a smile, “Depends, is that a certain dickhead with a sweets addiction?”


​“Stand down,” gets called out. It's not meant for us but for the others on watch. This group takes there security seriously. Having met them is probably why I have such distaste for the school's lack of security.


​“Get up,” I tell the guys who look at me with varying degrees of 'what the fuck is happening?'. Everyone stands again, with James helping support Chase. They're all very tense. Don't know why. Couldn't have anything to do with fear of flying arrows.


​A short couple of minutes pass before two men start making their way towards us, deftly making their way around the cars and other barricades used. I recognize both men. When you look at Dom there is no doubt he's in charge. A large, as in buff and tall, black man with short cropped hair and a trimmed beard that's peppered with gray hair, he walks with an air of command that's hard to miss. I don't know what his rank was before he retired but you can tell he was definitely used to giving orders when he was serving in the army. Dom is one of the main guys in charge of this group of survivors.


​Along with Dom is Tank. Tank's real name is Charles but no one really calls him that, except for his sister when she's yelling at him. Tank also served in the army, he drove tanks, hence the nickname. Not exactly creative. Tank, while nowhere near as buff as Dom, is very much in shape. In fact, I may have teased him more than once about all the time he must have spent looking at himself in the mirror at the gym. Fucker tries to lie and say he's just naturally fit. Liar, I've seen the amount of candy this guy eats. I'm surprised he has any teeth left in his head. His blond hair has gotten long enough he's got it up in a tiny man bun. Damn, I'm totally going to have to tease him about that.


​“What the fuck happened to your hair?” Tank asks by way of greeting.


​“Geez, nice to see you too. Glad you're still alive and haven't had your face eaten off by a zombie,” I snark at him.


​“Hello, Sadie, my love. It's sooo good to see you. I'm beyond ecstatic that you're still among us. Now, what the fuck happened to all that hair?” Tank smarms back at me.


​“Got tired of trying to keep it clean. It sucked constantly having to clean blood and brains, and other nasty shit out of it,” I tell him truthfully.


​“Well, if you'd stayed with us you would have had a regular supply of warm water to help out with that,” Tank tells me with a smug grin.


​“Wait, warm water?” I can't help the longing in my voice.


​“We got the solar hooked up,” Dom explains as he takes over the conversation. “Who are your friends, here?” He gestures to the guys who've been watching my back and forth with Tank with bewildered expressions.


​Pointing to each guy in turn I introduce them. “This is Miguel, he was my neighbor growing up. Chase, Theo, and James. They're from a group that's holed up at the elementary school north of here.”


​“I thought you didn't want to join a group?” Tank pouts.


​Dom rolls his eyes and takes a deep breath, long used to dealing with Tank's antics.


​“I haven't joined their group,” I say, pacifying Tank. To Dom I explain, “I just kept running into these guys and have helped them out a bit.”


​“Well, what brings you all out to us?” Dom asks.


​“Well, something...odd happened that has us wanting to check in with others to see if they've ran into the same problem.” Geez, that was a bit vague.


​Dom stares at me, waiting for me to clarify.


​“Do you think we can find somewhere more comfortable to continue. Chase here turned his ankle and I'd like him to get off it.”


​“Do you vouch for these guys?” He asks me.


​“I can vouch that they aren't a risk to you. I can't vouch that they won't make idiots of themselves,” I tell him in a serious voice. I think it was the lack of teasing in my voice that makes it take a few moments before the guys recognize what I said. James and Theo both make disgruntled squawks that have me smiling.


​“Alright, let's go find somewhere to sit down and you can explain all about this oddness that happened,” Dom says, motioning for us to follow him.


​We all follow behind him with Tank bringing up the rear. I don't know if the guys realize how many eyes, and weapons, are on us as we make our way past the cars and concrete barricades that have been set up. They've beefed up defenses even more since the last time I strolled through. Definitely getting inspiration for how I want to set up around my house.


​Journeying further into their territory, walls have been built with a mishmash of materials, chain link fencing, sheets of metal, wooden boards- basically anything they could get their hands on they put to work creating a barrier that would make it hard for zombies or even people to get through.


​The guys are definitely in awe as we make our way through. After telling some guy I don't know to fetch the medic and some food, Dom leads us into the first building on the right past the gates. The sign on the building says its a law office. We're lead to a large conference room. I plop myself down in one of the chairs. Oh, that's comfy. In a rare show of trust I melt down into the chair and let my eyes drift closed. It really is a comfy chair. I don't know what kind of law these people practiced but it must have been lucrative to afford chairs like this.


​I open my eyes to see the guys watching me with surprise, having never seen me truly relax like this before. Tank just smirks at me while Dom waits for me to speak. Dom is a master at patience. He just stares.


​Miguel handles the silence of the room fairly well but Theo, James and Chase all start fidgeting, showing signs of discomfort.


​“Why the hell are you letting your friends squirm?” Tank asks with a laugh in his voice.


​“'Cause it's fun,” I tease. “Alright, fine, I guess I'll get this show on the road. You know Kellerman Elementary?”


​Dom nods his head with confirmation while Tank asks, “The one north of here?”


​“Yeah, that'd be the one. They,” I gesture towards the guys, “are from a  group that's set up at the school.”


​“Damn, Sadie. I can't believe you'd join another group over us,” Tank says with a pout as he swivels his chair back and forth.


​I can't help the grimace that hits my face or the disdain in my tone when I say, “Like I already said, I have not joined them.”


​Tank stops his swiveling, snapping his fingers and pointing towards me, “Now that sounds like there's a story.”


​“Maybe, but it's not the one I came here to tell.” I roll my eyes at him.


​Dom quietly clears his throat which is all the warning we need to get back on track.


​“Anyway. So, the school. First let me ask you a question. Have you guys noticed anything weird with the zombies lately?”


​“What do you mean?” Dom asks, exchanging a questioning look with Tank.


​“Oh, just any abnormal behavior. Or any zombies that seem especially fresh?”


​“Fresh? What the hell is going on?” Dom asks, his tone even despite the cursing.


​I drop the bomb, “There was a recent turn.”


​Whatever they had been expecting me to say it sure as hell wasn't that. Dom actually looks surprised, an expression I didn't think him capable of.


​“I'm sorry, but what the hell do you mean a recent turn?” Tank questions.


​“There was a woman,” I start to explain.


​“Janice,” Chase breaks in. “She'd been with us since nearly the beginning.”


​“Right, Janice. She zombified.”


​Momentary silence before both Dom and Tank explode with a variety of 'that's not possible'. My follow up is cut off by three new people joining us. One of them is a middle aged woman carrying a large black bag. Miriam is a veteran nurse of 25ish years that I may have had to visit the last time I was here. She'd actually just retired before the vaccines went out, that timing is likely the only thing that saved her from being a zombie herself. Her hair that's pulled back in a no-nonsense ponytail seems grayer than the last time I saw her. Accompanying her are a young woman and a young man carrying plates of food. The young man looks to be caught in a gangly stage of transition between teen and adult with a smattering of pimples across his face, his dark hair cut shaggily just past his ears. The shaggy hair is a common theme these days. The young woman is gorgeous by anyone's standards with  skin a smooth medium brown and her hair pulled up into two puff balls on top of her head. Her ever present smile has twin dimples popping on her cheeks.


​James definitely thinks she's pretty judging my the way his eyes follow her as she and the young guy with her bring the plates to the table. I'll have to warn him off of her latter. Her name is Miranda and her daddy? Well that'd be none other than Dom. Did I mention she's only seventeen? Definitely going to have to warn the guys to stay away from her. Damn, is she giving them eyes? Yep, she's totally checking them out. I get it, fresh meat. But, come on, does she want her daddy to murder them?


​“That'll be all, Miranda, Kasen,” Dom tells them after they're done setting the plates down.


​With a pout on Miranda's part, the two of them leave.


​Miriam watches them go with just a hint of a smile at the corner of her mouth. She must have caught the exchange of flirty looks, too. “Alright, who's the patient. Don't tell me it's you again, Sadie?”


​“Hey, I'll have you know it isn't me, thank you very much. You act like I get injured all the time,” I say with no little affront.


​A chorus of snorts sounds out. “Right, I must be remembering someone else with a plethora of bite's and other scars riddled across her,” Miguel says.


​“It's not a plethora,” I mumble to myself. And to think I'd let him kiss me and even thought about getting naked with him. Wait, no I didn't. Stupid brain. There will be no thoughts of getting naked with Miguel. Especially not now.


​Theo speaks up, “It's actually Chase here. He hurt his ankle when we were jumping out of a building.”


​“Alright then. Let's have a look at that ankle.” Miriam swiftly makes her way to Chase. Several minutes pass with her examining Chase, asking him questions about how it feels, other than hurting like hell, when she moves it. “Well, I can't say for sure without an x-ray,” she shoots a look to Dom who exclaims, “I'm working on it,” before continuing with Chase. “I don't think it's broken, just sprained. I'm going to re-wrap it and recommend you rest it, preferably elevated, for a couple of days. Take some ibuprofen for the pain and inflammation.” She finishes up with Chase before asking, “If that's all?”


​“Actually, I think you might need to stay for this discussion,” Dom tells her. She takes a seat in one of the comfy chairs and folds her hands on the table looking far more professional than any of us save Dom. “Sadie?” Dom prompts me.


​“Right. Janice, a member of the school group turned into a zombie,” I tell them.


​“I'm going to need all the details you have,” Miriam says, leaning forward with quite a bit of concern.


​“Janice was a 30-some year old, seemingly healthy woman who was a member of a group set up at Kellerman Elementary. She didn't get either of the vaxxes, not the one that turned everyone or the two dose one either. Was a part of their survivor group since almost the beginning of the outbreak. One morning she woke up a zombie and tried to attack other members of the group. She was put down by severe head trauma. The only precipitating event that we are aware of at this time is that  a couple of days before she turned,” I pause so the next part can really sink in, “


she got a zombie bite to her arm.”


​“Holy shit. That's not possible,” Tank exclaims. “Right?”


​“I don't...” Miriam pauses as she thinks. “Everything we know as of now points to that being improbable. The problem is that we don't really know anything. We're struggling blind here. The government didn't get any info out to us other than to shelter in place before everything shut down. We still have no idea how any of this was possible. I'm just a nurse, I don't know. But, a bite?”


​We all sit there as we try to deal with the information.  I still don't know what to think.


​“So, it's safe to say you haven't run into anything like this?” Miguel asks.


​“No. I've treated a few bites in the last couple of weeks, but they've been completely normal,” Miriam tells us.


​“Same. I've got a recent bite but haven't turned, obviously,” I let her know.


​“A recent bite?” Miguel asks me in disbelief at the understatement.


​“Quit picking on me.” I cross my arms and narrow my eyes in agitation.


​“Is there anything you need me to look at?” Miriam asks.


​“No, Doc Tim has already looked me over.”


​“That is true,” Miguel lets her know, as if my word isn't good enough. I'm so not letting him kiss me again. Not that I'm thinking about us kissing. Although, maybe that's the problem. It's been a while. Not the time, much more important shit to deal with.


​I give myself a shake and set myself back on track. “Alright, so that's why we're here. We came to see if you've ran into any recent turns and if not, to warn you to be on the look out. We don't know what the hell happened but it's deeply concerning. If bites start turning we're fucked.” That's an understatement. I direct my attention to Dom. “I'd appreciate it if you'd let us stay here tonight. We could use some rest before we head out to check with some other groups.”


​“About that,” Tank says with a smirk, “I've got some new toys to show you.”


Chapter Ten


​“Holy shit, you've got communications? This is awesome,” I exclaim as I gaze around the room set up with various equipment I only vaguely recognize as being some type of radios. It's the age of the cell phone. I don't think I've every actually been up close to a radio before now. Car radios don't count.


​“Right now it's just short wave, we're working on getting some long range set up. We're in contact with a couple of groups here and a few more in the surrounding area. So, if you really want to hoof it to talk with others you can, or we can just use the radio,” Tank says.


​“I chose the less walking option, thank you very much.”


​Tank motions at a young guy sitting in front of some of the equipment. “We have someone here 24/7 so we don't miss any transmissions.”


​“So, no word from the government or military?”


​“Nope, just other survivors. Mostly sharing info about larger groups of zoms moving about, or if we've had issues with other groups.” Tank gives me a pointed look.


​“What? I promise I haven't had any run in's recently,” Wait, that almost feels like a lie. “Well, I haven't had any run in's with groups. Just the occasional bad apple.” Tank's eyes narrow. “None, of your business. It's been handled.” I wave around the room, “Can we get back to this?”


​Tank holds out for another few moments before giving in. “Fine. So, as I was saying we pass info around about zombies and other groups that might be an issue. Share info about where they might be able to find specific supplies that might be looking for. It was actually talking to someone from another group that helped us get our solar set up.”


​“That's awesome,” I tell him with absolute sincerity. I'm hoping to have some solar set up in my future. Reliable warm showers would be awesome.


​Tank gets a devious little smirk that I don't trust at all. “We've also gotten regularly asked if we've seen a certain red-headed hellion.”


​My spine snaps taught. “Who the hell has been asking about me and what did you say?”


​“Guy says his name is Koda and he's desperate to find you because he thinks you might be the one,” Tank tells me with relish.


​“Oh my god.” My hands cover my face in absolute mortification.


​“Want to tell me that story?”


​“What did you tell him about me?” My words are a bit muffled from the hands still covering my face.


​“Story first,” Tank insists.


​Ugh, he's such an ass. He's also a gossip. I slip my hands from my face and give him my best glare. “You swear you won't tell anyone else?”.


​“Of course,” he says, trying to look innocent and failing.


​“I mean it.”


​“Fine,” He places his hand over his heart, “I swear not to repeat what you're about to tell me.”


​“If you do I will hunt you down and cut off your favorite body part.”


​Tank grimaces, having no doubt I am sincere in my threat.


​“That goes for you, too, radio guy.” I slide my eyes to the guy pretending not to listen.


​“Yep. In fact I'm just going to put these headphones on so I can't even hear it,” The young blond guy tells me. His name was never mentioned and I don't ask for it.


​I huff out a breath and admit my shame. “I slept with him, once.”


​“Oh really,” Tank rubs his hands together in glee at getting the story out of me.


​“Ugh, it was early on after the outbreak. Like, literally the first few days. I think I'd slipped or something and cut myself as I headed to check on my Nana,”  my eyes screw up as I try to remember what exactly had happened but a lot has happened since then. “Anyway, I needed to clean up the cut and the closest I could find was a vet's office. I ran into Koda there. He was going around to vet's, and pet stores, and such to release the animals so they didn't starve in their cages.”


​“Aw, a do gooder.”


​“Yeah. He helped clean my cut. And, I don't know, it just happened. Probably adrenaline or something.”


​A snicker sounds out. “Don't laugh at me, asshole. I'm sure you've made more than a few mistakes in bed partners. I just made one with a clingy hipster.”


​“Oh my god. I knew it. Just from talking on the radio I knew he'd be a hipster. What kind of name is Koda?”


​“Shut up.”


​A few moments pass before Tank says, “So, we're not going to tell him we've seen you?”


​“I'd really prefer it that way. Maybe he'll give up and think a zombie got me.”


​“Please, you're way too badass for him to believe that.”


​“I wasn't then,” I admit. “I was still super squishy at the beginning. Alright, this is stupid. Let's move on, shall we.”


​“Very well. Let's check in with the others.”


<<<<<<<>>>>>>>


​Well, I don't know if that was productive or not. We managed to talk to a couple of groups who constantly monitor their radios. Other's only get on their radio's at certain times of day, so they'll be reached out to later. Of the ones we talked to, after assuring them we were serious and not joking, they told us they hadn't had any similar issues. No fresh zombies for them. The closest they've come to zombie weirdness is running into a couple that seemed a bit smarter than the common zombie. Great, because smart zombies is something we need.


​On one hand its great that it doesn't seem like bites are now turning people into zombies. But that just leaves the question of what the hell happened at the school to cause a new zombie?  I'm more than a little distracted as I make my way back to the conference room the guys had stayed in while Tank took me to the coms room. I absently take a seat ignoring the expectant looks on their faces.


​After a couple minutes James breaks down with a “Well?”


​I shrug. “So far, no one else has run into any fresh zombies. No issues with bites other than normal infections.”


​Everyone sits with that. We're probably all in the same mindset of wondering just what the hell happened to Janice. I hate being in the dark about threats.


​“I think I want to check out the pharmacy,” I tell the group.


​“The pharmacy?” James asks. It's a good thing he's cute.


​“The pharmacy where Janice got bit,” Miguel fills in for me, not seeming surprised at all. When did he get to know me so well?


​“I want to check out the zom that bit Janice. I don't know what else to do. None of this makes sense. Ha, as if zombies make sense in the first place.”


​“Alright, then let's do that,” Chase offers without hesitation.


​“Ha. You, sir, will not be going anywhere for a couple of days and I want to head out as soon as possible as the zom has already been decomposing for a couple of days now,” I point out.


​“Um, am I just supposed to stay here?” Chase asks, leaning forward with a concerned tone.


​“Yes. You'll be perfectly fine. The guys in charge here are decent folk. Plus, James can stay behind and help carry you around,” I say with a smirk. Chase's cheeks light up a bright pink.


​“So, it'll just be you, Theo, and Miguel?” Chase asks worriedly.


​Aw, the kid is worried even though I typically do things on my own. Wait. Stop thinking he's cute. Oh, what's the point. Just admit you actually like Chase and the others and move on. Damn it. I'm really not going to be able to go back to being isolated. I'm still not letting them move in. That's my sticking point. Yeah, right.


​“Nah, it won't just be them,” Tank calls from the doorway.


​“Oh, hell,” I exclaim.


<<<<<<<>>>>>>>


​“It's really not necessary that you come with us,” I say as I try and talk Tank out of joining us.


​“Oh, but it is, my little red-headed demon. We need to know if something is changing the zoms, too. Besides, I'm bored,” Tank grins as he trows an arm over my shoulders.


​“How can you be bored, it's the apocalypse?”


​“It's been pretty quiet the last little bit. Haven't blown anything up in weeks. Haven't even been in a proper fight,” he whines.


​Are all men just overgrown children? I guess Dom isn't, but he's the exception not the rule. “There will be no blowing things up if you come with us.” My tone is full of exasperation.


​“Only time will tell.”


​“I'm begging you, please. Please, don't.”


​“Aw,” Tank chucks me under the chin. “Where would be the fun in that?”


​“The fun would be me not dying from your stupidity.”


​He just shrugs at me as he walks away. Maybe I can talk Dom into making Tank stay behind. Don't get me wrong, Tank can kick ass. Give him a projectile weapon and he's hitting his target 99% of the time. The problem is he's a shit stirrer. I swear the guy must have adhd. He can't just let things be. It's the craziest thing because he can be absolutely quiet and still when on mission but anytime he has free time shit is stirred. If he's not directly picking fights he's whispering in ears that lead to fighting. Last time I saw him he managed to instigate a fight with a single sentence. I believe the sentence was 'I can see why Jack is hitting that' complete with a wave towards a woman, I think her name was Nelle. The reason this caused a fight is because the guy Tank said that to was Nelle's boyfriend. Guy went straight for the Jack mentioned. That little brawl spread to a good dozen people and by the time it got broken up there were a few broken bones and a couple of missing teeth. The cherry on top of that shit cake is that Tank made it up. Nelle wasn't cheating on her guy. Tank was just bored and a bored Tank equals havoc. I don't know how Dom deals with him on the regular.


​Temporarily free of Tank I wander over to James, Theo and Miguel at a table. We were allowed a change of scenery and are in a large room in a building that's been set up as their mess hall. Chase isn't with us, he's set up at their medic's office. He was feeling tired and not hungry and taking some pain pills. The guys are fairly quiet as they watch everyone else. It has a different feel than the school does. The people seem...happier if I had to put words to it. For the most part they're also all armed. They don't take their defenses for granted and are ready in case something gets in, whether that be of the zombie or human variety.  It also looks like they've added to their numbers. There's plenty of faces I don't remember seeing last time.


​James' attention seems rather pointed. I slap him upside the back of the head.


​“What the hell?” he cries out.


​“She's only seventeen, plus Dom? That's her daddy. Stay away,” I tell him seriously. He'd had his eyes glued to Miranda. That's a quick way to get a beat down.


​“Damn, I didn't realize, alright?” James says.


​“I don't know why you're looking when you've already got someone interested in you,” I tell him.


​“Oh, really?” James says with a smirk. “You telling me you like me?”


​Miguel, Theo and I simultaneously break out in laughter which James does not appreciate at all judging by the look on his face. “Fuck no,” I gasp out around my laughter.


​“You don't have to sound like the idea is so crazy,” James grumbles.


​“Sorry, no, you're right. I just would never encroach on a friends territory like that,” I tell him as I get myself under control.


​“Ha, you admit we're you're friends now,” Theo says triumphantly.


​“Wait, who are you talking about?” James' forehead scrunches up as he tries to figure out who I'm talking about.


​“God, you really are clueless,” I shake my head sadly at him. “Why don't you get your food and some for Chase and take it back for him?” I suggest to James.


​“But I want to know who likes me,” James whines but complies anyway, getting up to head to the food line.


​“Is he really that oblivious?” I ask Theo.


​“Yeah, but I think it might just be because he's only used to girls flirting with him,” Theo explains.


​“That's not going to be an issue, is it? He's not like, homophobic, right?” I ask with some concern.


​“Nah. His sister is...was bi and he always supported her. So, I don't think that's an issue. Just used to it being girls who flirt with him. Plus, Chase hasn't been the most direct. ”


​I nod my head in agreement. Chase is definitely on the shy end of the spectrum.


Chapter Eleven


​“Maybe you should stay behind with Chase and James,” I tell Theo as we're getting ready to leave the next morning.


​“Better idea, I also come with you,” James breaks in.


​With a frustrated growl I say, “No. Someone needs to stay behind with Chase.”


​“Then why don't you?” James asks.


​“Really?”


​“Okay, fine. I get how stupid that was to ask. But I thought you trust these people?” James asks.


​“As much as I trust anyone,” I shrug. “I would feel bad leaving Chase on his own around a bunch of people he doesn't know.”


​“Okay, fine that makes sense. But why me?” He whines.


​Hands on hips I face him, “You're really that excited to get back out there with the zombies who literally want to eat us, as well as people willing to kill you to take what little you might have on you?” I gripe at him.


​“Ugh. No. It's just the mystery, dude. I want to help solve the mystery of what's going on. Fine, I'll stay and keep an eye on Chase.”


​“Great, now that that's settled can we get a move on?”


​“Just waiting on you, my little demon,” Tank pipes in from where he's been leaning against a wall with his pack at his feet.


​This is going to be one long ass day.


<<<<<<<>>>>>>>


​After exiting the encampment from the opposite way that we entered, we head out. It's me, Miguel, Theo, and Tank. I think it would have been better to leave Theo behind. He would have been a hell of a lot safer staying back with Chase and James. Oh, well, he's an adult and can make decisions for himself. It just better not bite me in the ass.


​It's quiet for several blocks. Dom's group has been doing a good job of keeping it cleaned up in their area. I wonder if they plan on pushing out and cleaning up a bigger space or just sticking to their home base. I'll ask Tank when I get a chance. No use risking being heard at the moment.


​Our current line up has Miguel in the lead, Theo, Me, then Tank bringing up the rear. Tank has his serious face on. The guy might like to joke around, but he was a soldier and knows what the fuck he's doing. I wonder if he would have been taught how to pick locks and not just break down doors? Something else I'll have to ask him later.


​We're all native to the city, so we all know the basic area we're heading to to find the pharmacy. I'm hoping we're able to make it today. Sheer distance isn't a problem. Any other time and it wouldn't have been more than a couple hours to walk, if that. Now we have to worry about road blocks.


​I didn't mean literal road blocks, as in the type police would set up to block off roads for parades and stuff. We all slow down to a stop to consider what's in front of us. We huddle close and keep our voices down.


​“What's with the road blocks? I don't remember seeing them before?” I ask in little more than a whisper.


​With one hand on his weapon, keeping it ready to go, Tank rests his free hand on my lower back under my backpack as he leans close. “Are you sure you've been down here since everything? I'm fairly certain they've been here since the beginning.”


​I take a moment to consider. He may be right and I just didn't make it down this particular road. It's not like I've been up and down every road in the city, or even just in this area. I shrug and ask. “Why would they be right here, though?”


​“There's an auxiliary police building around the corner. They mainly used it for records storage but it also contained a backup munitions. I'd say some police probably headed here when their stations got overrun and tried to set up a perimeter.”


​“Well, hell,” Miguel says, eyes darting between Tank and I, “Do you think anyone is still there?”


​“Doubtful. We haven't run into anyone recently. We've had plans to check it out but've gotten distracted with other issues. We can check it now,” Tank replies.


​They all look to me. I let out a frustrated breath. “I really just want to get to the pharmacy. I can't help but feel like we're on a time crunch here.”


​“Okay, how 'bout we just take a little extra time passing it to see if it looks occupied but not go in?” Tank offers a compromise.


​“Okay, fine,” I concede.


​Tank takes the lead as we round a corner past the barricades. I bring up the rear, ever mindful of my footsteps, knowing it takes very little sound to catch a whole lot of attention. We move slowly inching our way down the street. Two empty squad cars lend credence to Tank's theory of what may have happened here. The scattered remains that lead to the building in question paint the rest of the picture. We pause in front of a door torn from it's hinges. A door that was reinforced to withstand rioting.


​We don't say anything just pause for a moment before moving on. I've no doubt that at least Tank will be making a return trip later to check the place out, but for now we're reasonably assured that the living aren't occupying the place. Whatever went down here wasn't pretty.


​Some signal from the back of my brain breaks through saying that something about this scene doesn't look right. Something other than the fact there are several human remains strewn about the sidewalk and street. What is it? My feet slow to a stop as I scan my surroundings trying to figure out what I'm seeing. The guys are a good block ahead of me before it clicks.


​This isn't the normal, ha 'normal', carnage you see from zombie attacks. The bodies are actually reasonably intact, as in the limbs are all still by the rest of their bodies. The clothing isn't ripped to shreds. Weathered, definitely, and bleached out from the sun, but not torn from grasping hands. There's a lot of spent shells. Like, a lot. So why are most of these bodies cops? Like I don't think any of them were zombies.


​Oh, shit. I double back to take another look at that door. Fuck. Now, I'm no expert so I could just be full of it, but that door looks like someone used an object of some sort to smash through it. Does that make sense? 'Cause when a group of zombies takes one down from sheer force of numbers it looks different. This looks like a circular object hit the door repeatedly.


​This wasn't a zombie attack. This was people on people. Yeah, I don't think Tank will be finding any additional fire power in there when he comes back. Someone already took it all. The real shitty part is that they did it at the beginning when no one really knew what was going on. People fucking suck.


​I catch back up to the guys, finding them all grouped together in a worried mess.


​Some 'Where the fuck were you?' get mouthed at me. I just wave them off with a muttered 'Later'. None of them look happy but they leave it be and we keep moving.


<<<<<<<>>>>>>


​A bit of brain and blood splatter later we find ourselves at the pharmacy. Or at least a pharmacy.


​“This has to be it, right?” I question out loud as I pull my hand drawn map out of the side pocket of my backpack. “We passed the school back that way, then went northeast. We're on Baker street. So, this has to be it, right?” I glance around at the other guys.


​“I think so?” Theo offers as more of a question than confirmation.


​Tank gives a 'how would I know' shrug.


​This is the only place that makes since given what we were told about Janice. I give the signal forward and we cautiously make our way to the pharmacy. It's one of those big chain stores that sales a little bit of everything, like a mini-department store. No issues entering as the sliding doors are pushed open. The place is a mess. The kind of mess that comes with a commotion, you know? Like lots of shelves are empty but there's plenty of things rolling around on the ground. People must have grabbed things in a hurry and not bothered to pick up what they dropped. Between the four of us we clear the place in no time.


​The place is empty other than the remains of a single female zombie whose head was thoroughly smashed in. We found her, it, damn it's so freaking hard to remember they aren't human any more when they're zombies, near the women's restroom which lines up with what happened to Janice.


​Miguel and Theo take up guard positions as Tank and I lean down to examine the body. The head is a lost cause, not enough left to see if anything appeared off. I'm not sure what we're looking for but it appears like any other dead zombie. We move limbs around, turn the body over, lift the clothing as considerately as possible.


​“I've got nothing. She looks like any other dead zombie I've seen,” I say with more than a little frustration.


​“Same. No bites on her. The amount of decomp seems consistent with all the others. Doesn't seem like a fresh turn. Unremarkable as far as I can see,” Tank agrees with a loaded look.


​Either there's something special about this former zombie that we just can't see without a good bit of science or something else was responsible for Janice turning. What the hell could that be?


​“While we're here I'd like to check the actual pharmacy for stuff we need back at camp,” Tank tells me.


​I give him a nod as I remain crouched by the body. There's a wedding ring set on her left hand. She had a family. What a fucking waste. What was the point of all this? Ugg, that's getting way too freaking philosophical for me. At the last second I resist the urge to scrub my hands across my face. I've got a bit of zombie funk on my gloves.


​I get up and make my way over to the pharmacy. It wouldn't hurt to grab a few things myself. I shake my head as I pass a large sign “Vaccinations Offered Here”.


​“Anti-biotics,” Tank says with a head tilt. I grab the ones he points out, trusting him to know a bit more than me about what to grab. He seems to have a few goals in mind as he makes his way around the room. I wander as he searches. Ha, there's Viagra. Don't think there's much call for that at the moment, but what do I know? I contemplate grabbing some of the birth control but think others could use it more than me so I make sure to point it out to Tank.


​There's a small fridge. Whatever needed stored in there has long since perished. Out of curiosity I open the door to see what had to be refrigerated. Some insulin, some anti-biotics. Other names I couldn't even begin to pronounce let alone know what they're used for. There's a few tubs of ready filled needles in their plastic packaging. I tilt my head to see the label better. Is that...?


​In a small flurry of movement I close the fridge and go over to the counter where they have pamphlets on the vaccine that started this whole mess. Pamphlet in hand I go back over to the fridge and pull out one of the tubs. I glance at the pamphlet, then glance at the shots. Rinse and repeat. I find myself sprawled on the floor in disbelief. I don't know why I'm surprised.


​Tank crouches down by me in concern. “What's wrong?”


​I hand him the pamphlet and motion at the tub. “Fuck,” he says, “I guess it was too much to hope they would have destroyed the remaining shots when they realized what was going on. I'll dispose of them.”


​“Wait.” I grab his forearm before he can stand up.


​“What?”


​“You didn't see anything different about that zombie, right? Nothing to lead us to think it was different than the rest, capable of passing this shit on through a bite. We do know of one thing capable of doing it.” I tilt my head to the tub in his hands.


​Tank looks down at the tub then back at me. An intense look passes between us.


​“Shit,” We say simultaneously as we move to stand.


​“Hey, guys,” I call Miguel and Theo over from where they've been standing guard making sure nothing sneaks up on us.


​“What's up?” Miguel asks, only half turning so he can still keep an eye out after he walked closer to the pharmacy counter.


​“It's a good news, bad news situation,” I tell him and Theo. “Good news is I don't think our lady zombie over there is responsible for Janice's unfortunate fate.”


​Miguel gives me a sharp look as Theo voices, “What do you mean? What else could it have been?”


​I gingerly pick up one of the packaged syringes and give it a tiny wave.


​“Wait...” Theo puts it together in his head. “Do you mean you think Janice got one of the vaccines here and that's what turned her?”


​“I very much doubt she gave it to herself,” Miguel states what I'm thinking.


​“That can't be,” Theo says. “That, no. You can't seriously think someone gave her one of the vaccines on purpose. That makes no sense. It would mean they wanted Janice to die. Just, no.” Theo denies.


​“Does that really seem less likely that Janice being the only person to be turned by bite?” I ask him gently as he wrangles with this.


​“We don't know for sure she's the only one. Hell, it could be common everywhere else and just not here.” Theo takes off pacing a few feet away.


​It takes a few minutes for Theo to calm down before he strides back over and asks, “What do we do now?”


​“Now we go back to the school.”


Chapter Twelve


​I tried to tell Tank that he didn't need to come with us now that we're fairly certain we aren't facing a new zombie crisis but just your run of the mill shitty murderer.


​“Now, Sadie-wady, do you really think I'm going to let you go have all the fun of figuring out  the who-done-it? Besides, Dom gave me orders to talk to the people in charge at the school.”


​“Ugh, fine. We'd best get moving. This trip had already taken longer than I would have liked.”


​“Should we go back for Chase and James first?” Theo questions.


​“No,” I answer. “Chase needs to keep off that ankle for a couple days. Plus we need to figure out this possible murderer situation sooner than later.”


​“You're right,” he concedes.


​I think the situation just has him worried and wanting to lay eyes on his best friends.


<<<<<<>>>>>>


​The journey from the pharmacy to the school goes by quickly with very few bumps. Honestly it went a little too quickly. I haven't had time to sort out all of my thoughts yet, decide how I want to approach this with Frank and freaking Virginia. Hell, when did I start thinking I'd rather deal with Frank than any of the other so called council or whatever over at the school?


​Theo is the first to the gate. A couple of words later and the gate is opened just far enough for a body to slip through before it's closed and secured behind us. It looks like they've been turning up some of the ground. Kind of looks like they're making a garden but you don't plant in the fall, do you? I  need to try and remember to ask about that. Is there something I could be planting right now? Kind of  assumed growing food was a spring and summer thing.


​Once again we're stopped just past the door and Frank and Doc Tim are called. As we wait I half consider if I should be learning the names of the people guarding the doors. Yeah, nah. I have too many other things to worry about before learning the names of people I don't really plan on interacting with in the future. And, no, I'm not being delusional. I'm not joining this little society and have no plan on coming back after this little matter is taken care of.


​Frank and Doc Tim show up together. Should I mention now that the physical exam is unnecessary? I don't know the people on the door so I think I'll hold off until a more private conversation can happen with Frank and Doc Tim.


​I'm starting to worry. Frank once again isn't wearing his usual sneer and looking even more tired than the last time I saw him. Doc Tim's hair is even more unruly. Seems like the last couple of days have not been smooth sailing for the two. Then again, I imagine everyone here is a bit freaked out and stressed about what happened.


​Frank and Doc Tim's first concerns are not the same as Frank first asks, “Who the hell is this?” gesturing towards Tank while Doc Tim is all, “Oh my God, did something happen to James and Chase?”


​I address Doc Tim first. “They're okay. Mostly. Chase twisted his ankle so we decided it was better for him and James to remain behind somewhere safe.” Doc Tim lets out a relieved sigh as I turn my attention to Frank. “The somewhere safe is where this guy came from,” I gently smack the back of my hand against Tanks chest. “Frank, whose last name I don't remember, meet Charles Sullivan. You can call him Tank. Tank here is from one of the other camps. They thought it would be a good idea to introduce themselves to you. Say 'hello', Tank.”


​“Hello, Tank,” Tank parrots back. I roll my eyes so hard I'm surprised they don't get stuck as I bring my hand up to pinch the bridge of my nose. I just know this is going to give me a massive headache. I really should have fought harder about it being Tank that came with us. I just know he's going to start some shit.


​“Well, Tank, we're going to have our Doctor here look you all over, make sure you don't have any recent bites,” Frank says a bit disdainfully. I'm sure Frank's cop instincts are signally that Tank could be a problem.


​“No problem,” Tank says with a grin. “Though, surely you'll be having a female check Sadie here over?”


​“Oh my god,” I whisper to myself. Based on all previous interactions with Tank I very much doubt he actually has an issue with a woman being checked over by a male doctor. Shit stirrer. “Come on, Doc. Let's get this over with.” I grab Doc's arm and drag him behind me as I  march over to the bathroom we'd used last time ignoring the others.


​Doc Tim fidgets with his hair, his glasses, and pulls at the bottom of his shirt as I strip down. Guy needs to get over this body shyness in his line of work. It doesn't take long to see I don't have any fresh bite marks.


​“Did you find out anything?” Doc asks me.


​“Later. I'd rather only go over it all once.”


​“Understandable. Alright, you're clear.”


​“Thanks, Doc. I'll send in the next patient,” I say as I exit the restroom.


​Miguel and Theo take their turns without issue. When Tank's turn comes up he he makes a point as he stares down Frank to hand his weapons and  bag off to me before proceeding into the restroom. Well, I should say the visible weapons. I've no doubt Tank has a few on his person I'm unaware of.


​Frank's foot taps in a show of impatience as he waits with arms crossed for us to be finished. It doesn't take long before Tank and Doc Tim both emerge from the restroom. “All clear,” Doc informs Frank.


​“Great. Now lets get moving. The other's should already be waiting,” Frank states as he starts stalking off down the hallway leaving us to chase after him.


​We're lead to a conference room. Already seated inside are the ones who help run the school. There's Ms. CEO, Virginia, who thinks she's the real leader. Miss Kate is a sweet woman in her fifties who keeps everyone fed. Kate is actually the OG runner of this little encampment, she just didn't throw a fit when the others showed up and started acting like they were in charge. Geoff is any other middle aged white man, tends to side with Frank in most things. Lastly is Dr. Miranda Connors. Dr. Connors is an OB. I don't really know what to make of her yet other than I'm more comfortable having Doc Tim treat me than her.


​Doc Tim and Frank take their seats. I'm surprised Frank isn't sitting at the head of the table beside Virginia as he has previously. Trouble in paradise? At least this time seats are already waiting for us so I don't have to drag them over myself.


​I settle into one of the rolling chairs. Damn. Not nearly as comfortable as the ones Dom offered us when we spoke with him. Oh, well.


​“I assume you have news if you're already back,” Virginia starts the conversation. She gives Tank a lingering look but doesn't ask, likely expecting us to explain his presence without question. Did these tactics make her a successful CEO?


​“First I'd like to introduce you to Mr. Charles Sullivan, he goes by Tank.” I gesture to him. Tank gives a little two finger salute in response. “Tank is from one of the other settlements we spoke of.”


​“Oh? And why have you decided to visit us here Mr. Sullivan? Are you hoping to leave your previous camp and join ours?” A shine of avarice lights Virginia's eyes at the prospect. She's good at sizing people up and no doubt recognizes just how good of an addition he would make to their team.


​“Ha, no,” Tank scoffs.


​The avarice in Virginia's eyes is swiftly replaced with annoyance.


​“I'm here on behalf of the leader of my camp. Dom wants to open up a line of communication with you like we have with a number of other survivors scattered around the city and nearby countryside. In that vein,” Tank pick up his bag and takes out a black box with a radio mike attached. “This is a HAM radio. It's short wave so will allow you to communicate with those in the nearby vicinity. Do you have anyone who knows how to use this?”


​“I can,” Frank states. I wonder if that's something he picked up on the force?


​“Alright, this,” Tank grabs a small notebook out of backpack, “has the info for getting in touch with us as well as some of the other settlements. For the most part, as of now at least, we've been using these to exchange info like where we've run into trouble and where to find supplies. Talk to experts.”


​Tank had been addressing this all to Frank but it's Virginia who speaks next. “What kind of trouble and what kind of experts?” she asks in a rather demanding tone.


​I see the split second bristle that Tank is able to hold down. For all that Tank was military he sure doesn't like it when people give him commands. He plays nice though. “Trouble such as larger groups of zombies. Areas that are no longer passable. When we've had issues with other groups. Experts like the electrical engineer at one of the other camps that was able to talk us through setting up solar.”


​“We'll have to speak to this electrical engineer to set up solar for ourselves.” Virginia is back to looking pleased.


​“I'm sure he'd be happy to walk you through it, if you ask nicely,” Tank responds.


​And there goes the tightening around Virginia's eyes though she keeps the rest of her expression pleasant enough. Guess she doesn't like the idea of having to ask and not just demand would be my take.


​An awkward pause passes before Virginia moves things along. “Well then, thank you Mr. Sullivan. I'll be sure to reach out to the other leaders soon. Now, what news on our little incident?”


​My brows wing up 'little incident', really? Tank steps back and leaves it up to me. “There have been no reported incidents of bites turning people into zombie. No new zombies or zombies that seem very out of the norm.”
​“I expected more,” Virginia says when I pause to take a breath.


​I continue on, ignoring her statement, which she seems to not like at all. “That comes from talking to Tank's settlement, as well as contacting several others. Now, when we left Tank's they were still waiting to hear back from a few other people. Though I expect they'll have the same to report. No people turning from bites.”


​“What makes you so certain of that?” Virginia asks in a frosty tone. At this point I'd actually rather be talking to Frank, which is saying a lot as he's usually a dick.


​“After speaking to several settlements and coming up empty we decided to go back to ground zero.”


​“Ground zero?” Geoff asks in confusion. This time I'm not the one at the end of Virginia's death glare. Guess she doesn't like others speaking up.


​“Where Janice got bit. We went to the pharmacy to check out the zombie that bit her. See if anything seemed different about it.”


​“And?” Virginia prompts with little patience.


​I glance to Frank who's just watching all of this with frustrated concern before turning to my group. Tank, Miguel and Theo all give me the nod so I reach over and grab my backpack. Probably be easier to explain our theory with a little show and tell.


​Before I can get my bag unzipped the first scream rings out. It's quickly followed by several more. That first scream startled us all but it's only me and the boys, plus Frank, who actually react. By the time the second scream rang out we were all up and heading out the conference room door.


​Within seconds the cafeteria comes into view, full of pandemonium. I'm jostled as several people run past me, trying to escape the room. I fight my way past them to the center of the carnage. My gaze sweeps over several bleeding people as I look for the cause. Well, fuck.


​It's a zombie. Of course it's a fucking zombie. I ignore the injured and go for the threat. A couple of men are there trying to stop the zombie but they aren't armed with more than food trays so aren't getting very far. Habit and instinct already has my hammer in hand as I get ready to wade in. Tank beats me to the punch.


​In a move that can only be called efficient, Tank grabs the zombie by way of a handful of hair and brings up a big ass knife that he slides straight through the back of it's neck, severing the spine. The zombie drops. All aggressive movement just ceases within the blink of an eye. Though, to be thorough, Tank kneels down and uses that big ass knife to completely decapitate the zombie. That must be one sharp ass blade, though I don't know how I could expect anything else from one of Tank's weapons. Just 'cause he's better with a gun doesn't mean he's not excellent with a blade. You know, if I give it a little thought he seems to have way more skills than you'd think a tank crewman would need. But then what do I know? I never served in the military.


​It's a messy affair with blood spilling out of the severed neck. Not as fast as it would pump through a normal human but enough to show it's a very recent turn. What the fuck? I mean, didn't we figure it's not from bites but from the vaccine? Are we wrong or is someone running around with a fistful of needles?


​The screaming and frenetic moves that filled the room slow down as people realize the immediate threat is over. “Well, fuck,” sounds from beside me. I look over to Frank who has a wholly defeated look on his face. “How many have been bit?”


​Oh, yeah. We never got around to sharing our theory. I grab Franks arm, which gets me a harsh frown. I tug until he lowers his head so I can whisper to him. “For now just get them in a separate room and get them medical assistance. Keep a very close eye on them,” I tell Frank. He nods along. “No needles, no shots.” That earns me quite the confused look. “Just do it.”


​I march out of the room with Tank on my heels. I don't know where Miguel and Theo are, and don't really have time to figure it out. I'm on a mission. A mission that runs right into me, medical bag in hand. I grab a handful of shirt and tug Doc Tim with me, despite his protests. I shove him through the first door I come to, ripping his bag out of his hands and shoving it at Tank.


​Tank starts riffling through the bag as I give Tim my complete attention.


​“What is going on? I need to go help those people,” He stammers as he pushes his glasses up his nose and brushes unruly curls out of his eyes.


​“Tell me it wasn't you.”


​“What? What wasn't me? I'm so confused.” He does look confused and concerned. Could just be a good actor. Than again, most sociopaths are great actors and you'd have to be one to cold bloodily kill like this.


​“Clean,” Tanks sounds off as he sets the medical bag down on a nearby table.


​“Can you please just tell me what's going on?” Tim pleads.


​I hold my hand out to Tank who reaches into one of his many pockets, I wish women's pants had good pockets, and pulls out a syringe and it's packaging. No worries, it's empty. We destroyed all of the vaccines we found at the pharmacy. The couple we kept we emptied out. I hold it in front of Tim. Shock takes over his face when he realizes what I'm holding.


​“What are you doing with that? Where in the world did you get it?” His worried stammer is gone and his Doctor's authority has taken over.


​“A pharmacy, where else? Same pharmacy that Janice went to.”


​“Wait, you think...”


​“Seems a hell of a lot more likely than the alternative, at least to me,” I tell him, taking a step back to put a little space between us. He seems completely surprised by the whole thing. So, he's either not the culprit or a great actor. I look to Tank who gives a nod agreeing with my assessment.


​“Wait, you think I did this? I wasn't even at the pharmacy,” Tim exclaims.


​“If they were at one pharmacy they're probably at others. Wouldn't be that hard.”


​“I would never,” Tim says in pure affront.


​“Yeah, I'm starting to believe that. Alright. Get to your patients. No shots.”


​Torn between getting to those who need him and talking more about the syringes, Tim grabs his bag and takes off.


​“Well.”


​“Yeah.” I rub frustrated hands over my face. One suspect down.


Chapter Thirteen


​A very grumpy Frank grabs me by the elbow and tows me into an empty room. “What in the world is going on?” I forgive the manhandling and the anger in his voice as it's a very stressful situation.


​“Murder.”


​Well, that was definitely not what he expected me to say. “At least I'm pretty sure. We need to examine the newest body asap,” I tell him.


​“I'm confused. What do you mean 'murder'?”


​“What I mean is good news, people aren't being turned into zombies through bite.”


​His brows crinkle for a moment as he tries to make since of that. His jaw sets in a firm line, eyes going dark as he works out what I mean. “The vaccine?” I give a nod. “Just so there's no fucking confusion- You think someone is injecting people with the vaccine to turn them into goddamned dead-heads?”


​“Yep.”


​Even knowing that Frank used to be a police officer I've never really thought of him in those terms before. The few weeks I've known him, he's just seemed like a regular old asshole. For once I can see why other people deffer authority to him. He seems taller than before as his back straightens and his shoulders pull back. His face is all hard lines with his jaw set and his eyes squinted in anger. Fuck, Frank may actually have what it takes to be a decent leader.


​He stalks out of the room with me following behind. We end up back in the cafeteria, though it's now empty but for a couple of people and the downed zombie. Doc Tim must be treating the injured in another room. Poor fucks are probably freaking out thinking they're going to turn into zombies now, too.             


​“Out,” Frank commands and everyone obeys except for Tank. Tank is standing next to the body staring down at it.
​“Damn it,” I mutter as I take the body in. In all the hub-a-lub I hadn't really studied the body before other than the usual 'it's a zombie'. It's a freaking kid. Well, a teen. That just makes it all the worse, doesn't it? Death, murder, is bad enough on it's own but when it's a freaking kid? Just, damn it all. Judging by the other's continence they're of the same opinion. Murder-not okay. Murdering a kid? Yeah, when we find out who did this...well it's not like we can put them in jail.


​“What do we need to do?” Frank asks, his voice deep with his rage. Probably a good bit of guilt there as well. His people, his watch. Yeah, there's a good bit of guilt fueling that rage.


​“Check the body. We're looking for injection marks. Small, easy to overlook,” Tank explains, the picture of professionalism.


​It's an excruciating few minutes as we slowly examine the body. It's difficult to divorce yourself from the fact that just a short while ago this was a living, breathing teenage boy. Cutting his clothes away to make sure we're not missing any potential injections sites just feels like an additional injury we're doing to the poor boy.


​“Here,” I say in resigned sadness, sitting back on my heels and hanging my head. There's a small bruise with a tiny little scab in the middle of his right butt cheek.


​“Fuck,” Frank exhales.


​After several moments of just existing with the knowledge that someone here murdered this poor kid it's time to move. “Let's get something to cover this kid back up, maybe some new clothes. He shouldn't be left like this.”


​Without argument Frank strides to the cafeteria doors. There's a small squeak of hinges as he steps out followed by the soft murmur of voices. I move to one of the benches to sit with Tank settling beside me.


​His shoulder bumps mine. “You okay, kid?”


​“Dude, your not that much older than me.” A moment of silence before I admit, “No, I don't think I am okay. This just seems so fucking useless. Just, why? This is straight up murder. Not self-defense. This wasn't even about being shitty enough to kill someone so you can take their stuff. This is just straight up cold blooded murder. Isn't it? What possible purpose could this have served?”


​Tank wraps an arm around my shoulders and pulls me close as I pretend their aren't tears silently rolling down my face. Stupid emotions. It'd be so much freaking easier to not feel them.


​“Unfortunately, I learned the lesson years ago that people as a whole suck. The things we fight wars over, what we're willing to kill over-yeah, human's fucking suck.”


​“Thanks, that's really fucking inspiring.”


​“You're welcome,” Tank responds happily.


​We remain seated together until the door opens again admitting Frank with his arms now full. Frank gives us a look at how close we're sitting but doesn't say anything as he heads to the body and sits his things down.


​There's a blue tarp, a pair of sweatpants, a hooded zippered jacket, and a pair of socks. Tank gives a confused look at the socks, but I get it. The small care of an adult to a child of not wanting their feet to get cold. It might not make since to the head but it does to the heart.


​We redress him with care, moving together with few words needed. With his head placed in the hood of the jacket at first glance you might think his body whole. Frank, or whoever picked out the clothes, made good decisions.


​Tank starts to fold the tarp but I stop him with a hand on his am. “Wait. Frank, what was his name?”


​Frank has to clear his throat before he's able to respond. “David. His name was David.”


​“Did he have anyone here? Any family who should get to say goodbye.”


​Frank gives a tired shake of his head. “No, he was raised by a single mom. A nurse.”


​“Ah, okay.”


<<<<<<<>>>>>>>


​It's a freaking mess of loudly differing opinions. Loud enough that if they don't quiet down the cat will be out of the fucking bag. “Shut the fuck up,” I utter in frustration, eliciting a snort from Tank.


​My words work but earn me some death glares. We're back in the conference room but this time the line up is minus Theo and Miguel, much to their confused consternation. I didn't have time to say much to them before Tank and I were dragged in here.


​Ms. CEO, Virginia, has some strong opinions on the whole situation. Frank was trying to be reasonable at first but quickly devolved into frustrated shouting with Geoff trying to back him up. Miss Kate is just watching the whole thing in horror. Doc Tim is pacing and the other Doctor, Connors, seems to be amused by it all. Like that's not disturbing.


​“How the hell are you keeping this quiet if you all are screaming loud enough to be heard outside?” Virginia gives me a very dirty look at my words while Frank sets his jaw and tries to get a hold of himself.


​“How about we discuss this like actual adults?”


​“Fine,” Virginia huffs as she straightens her not at all out of place blouse before retaking her seat at the head of the table.


​“I think you all have blown this entire situation of of proportion,” Virginia starts off in a huffy tone.


​My eyebrows raise and Frank irately starts, “Out of proportion?”


​“Frank,” I call him out. He takes a deep breath and gives me a nod before he continues in a more reasonable tone. “We're dealing with murder here.”


​“I really don't think we are,” Virginia states, her head firmly buried in the sand.


​“I think -” I begin only to be cut off by Virginia.


​“It doesn't matter what you think. As you keep pointing out, you aren't one of us.”


​Wow, okay. “I think that you used to be a business woman while Frank was a cop and Tim here is a Doctor. I'd say they'd have a better idea of knowing if we're dealing with murder than you. Tim what's your opinion?”


​Doc Tim does his usual hair push out of his eyes before speaking. “Given what we currently know- that we've not before seen a person turned into a zombie,” he stumbles over the word zombie. “by bite and that no one we've talked to has seen it either, that the vaccine was found at the same pharmacy where Janice was attacked, and that David had evidence of a resent needle injection- I think it's murder.”


​Frank nods his head agreeing with all of Tim's points.


​“There, the Doctor, and the Cop are both leaning towards murder. You can't afford not to treat it as such. At least not if you don't want more bodies turning up,” I state, my tone thoroughly fed up.


​“So, what? We're just supposed to go around asking if one of our people is killing the others?” Virginia asks in a snotty tone.


​“I think we should listen to what Frank has to say about the whole thing.”


​“At the moment I believe it best not to announce that we're investigating this as murder. It will just freak everyone out worse than they already are, causing mass panic. It would also let the perpetrator know we're looking for them. Myself and a few carefully chosen others will quietly begin investigating.”


​“And how do we know you aren't the so called 'murderer'?” Virginia asks with a sneer.


​Frank flushes red but manages to hold in his temper. I'm proud of him.


​ I can't help the snort that slips out of me.


​“Something funny? Virginia clips out.


​With a head shake I push back from the table and out of my chair. “I'm just shocked at how the hell you ended up calling the shots around here,” I shoot at her as I start leaving the room. “Frank, I'll catch up with you later. I'm fucking famished.”


Chapter Fourteen


​“Don't know why I was worried you might have joined this group with the way you were making friends in there,” Tank says with laughter in his voice.


​“Yeah, that's me, making friends wherever I go,” I deadpan.


​I start to head towards the cafeteria but stop myself and head in a different direction as I both don't want to go back to the cafeteria after what happened and also don't want to take any of their food. Not in a good sense of not wanting to take any resources away from them and more that I'm feeling petty and don't want anything Ms. CEO might think is hers.


​I end up heading for the roof. The two guys on guard up there give me questioning looks but I ignore them and make myself comfortable by dropping on my ass and leaning against the perimeter wall. Tank joins me as I dig jerky out of my pack. Tank does his own digging and pulls out a sandwich bag full of cookies. I take one when he offers it to me. Of course he has sweets on him.


​“Holy shit,” I mumble around a mouth full of cookie. Swallowing I say, “These taste fresh.”


​Tank nods as he swallows his own mouthful before responding. “They are. One of the ladies back at camp is a hell of a baker and can cook on just about any heat source.”


​“Nice.”


​We fall into companionable silence as we eat. It's nice while it lasts but we're soon found. Miguel and Theo track us down to the roof and join us.


​“Ooh, cookies. Can I have one?” Theo asks.


​Tank shoves a cookie into his own mouth and says with his mouthful, “Sorry, last one.”


​Miguel and I both snort at his antics as Theo's face falls. “They were really good too. Fresh baked,” I rub in Theo's face as I pass the actual last cookie that was in my hands over to Miguel. Theo's mouth falls open in hurt disbelief at the move.


​I toss Theo my jerky. He looks disgruntled but still eats some. Eventually Miguel breaks in with, “You want to fill us in on what the hell happened? We're a bit in the dark here.”


​Oh, yeah. They'd missed a bit. “To sum it up, it seems our vaccine theory is right and a poor kid named David is fucking dead.” My voice rises at the end, unable to hold back the anger I'm still feeling at the whole mess.


​“What? David? He's just a kid?” Theo asks in shock.


​“Yeah, he fucking was.” I rub frustrated hands over my face. “So, the commotion in the cafeteria was David. Several people were hurt so Doc Tim is dealing with that mess.”


​“Yeah, we went to help but Frank had guards on the door. No one in or out,” Miguel tells me.


​I nod my head, glad Frank was on top of that. “Then we met up again with the 'council',” yes that was said with sarcasm and finger quotes, “and we laid it out. Ms. CE-fucking-O thinks we're throwing things out of proportion. How the fuck?”


​“So, what's going on now?”


​“I may have left that little meeting before it ended, but I'm waiting for Frank to let me know how it went,” I tell him, leaning my head back against the wall and letting exhaustion close my eyes. It's not even so much the physical tiredness. I'm just mentally exhausted. This is why I should just keep to my fucking self. So much less drama.


​On queue Frank shows up. “There you are. Why the fuck are you making me track you down to the roof?”


​“Ah, there's the Frank I know and barely tolerate. And there's the familiar glare,” I tease him. “So, what did the almighty Virginia decide?” I ask with a sneer.


​Feet spread and arms cross in an obvious sign of disgruntlement. “Despite her objections, the Council has agreed to let me take the lead on what we should do for now. What with the fact that I am a fucking Cop and actually have experience arresting god-damned murderers,” he spits out before taking a deep breath and bringing himself back down. One neck pop to relieve stress later, Frank continues, “For now we don't mention murder. Those who were attacked stay quarantined with Doc Tim overseeing. A few hand picked will start investigating and searching. Don't have to worry about any search warrants now, do we?”


​“If you figure out who did it, what will you do with them?” I can't help but ask.


​“The council wasn't ready to decide that yet, but we don't exactly have a jail now, do we?”


​“Fuck.”


​“You sticking around to help?” He asks not just me but the others, scanning his eyes over us.


​All I can respond with is another, “Fuck.”


<<<<<<<>>>>>>>


​“Alright, Mr. Cop, where do we start?” I ask Frank. We've moved off the roof and outside to the far end of the fencing for privacy.


​Our current group consists of Tank, Miguel and Theo. Then there's Frank and two guys he brought along. Isiah is probably around my age, just under six feet with light brown hair, a sturdy build and was apparently also a cop, though he was a newbie patrol cop when shit hit the fan. Then there's Simon. Simon is an intense guy who doesn't say much. His freaking tall and super thin but that thinness in deceiving as he's covered in ropey muscle. No idea how old the guy is though. His shaved hair looks like it might be going gray. No mention of what Simon did before the whole apocalypse.


​Frank has on a professional persona that I am so not used to dealing with. It makes me want to poke him to see if he'll break. I'm much too mature to do that though. This is a very serious situation.


​“Sadie,” Frank barks. Oops, I totally poked his side. I shove my hands behind my back as he shakes his head at me. He continues past my interruption. “Typically an investigation starts with identifying who a victim knows and if any of those people had an issue with the victim, if they had anything to gain from the victim dying.”


​“Well, this is a contained environment so we already know who the victims knew,” Tank says.


​“True,” Frank agrees. “So, we need to look to means and motive. Who would have had access to the vaccine and why would they have chosen Janice and David?” Frank looks around our group to see if anyone has any insight.


​I hold my hands up. “I've got nothing for you there as I didn't know them.” Tank and Miguel are in the same situation, we're outsiders here.


​Simon doesn't offer any words though his brow is creases in thought. Isiah speaks, “I wasn't close with either of them. Nothing stands out in my mind.”


​Theo next, “I also wasn't super close to either of them. David seemed like a good kid, always offering to help. Janice was nice and helped out in the kitchen a lot. Ugh, this is when we could use Chase.”


​We all look at him questioningly. “I don't know how, but Chase always seems to know all the gossip,” Theo supplies.


​“Well, we can try reaching out to him on the radio Tank brought,” I offer.


​Frank gives a nod. “We'll do that. Until then we should question others. Janice did help in the kitchen a lot so we can talk to Kate. David mostly hung out with the other teenagers and younger kids. He did come up to me and offer to help do supply runs. I told him I'd think about it but I didn't want to send him out. He was just a kid,” Frank says, clearing his throat as it had started to go gruff towards the end. “Anyway, we start questioning those close to the victims. I imagine we're on a short time line before the cat is out of the bag. If we don't make headway before that point, we initiate a full out search.”


​“What will we be looking for?” the very green Isiah asks.


​“Short of an 'I did it' confession, look for more of the damn vaccine. And be careful about it. One accidental jab and you're a fucking dead-head,” Frank explains with far less sarcasm than I would have managed.


​Frank splits us up with Tank and Theo going to set up the radio and try to contact Chase. Frank is taking Miguel with him to go talk with Kate and her kitchen staff about Janice. That leaves me with a nervous Isiah and a silent Simon to go talk with a bunch of kids. What fun. I could have said no. I could have been all 'not my people, not my problem', but, no I had to put myself in the middle of all this. At some point I'm going to have to admit I'm not the total loner I wish I was.


​Isiah tries to take the lead but isn't actually sure what to do. “Any idea's big guy?” I ask Simon. Dude really is tall, probably around six and a half feet. A small head shake is all the answer I get. “Right. Okay, let's find Doc Tim.”


​“We're supposed to talk with David's friends,” Isiah says.


​“And we will. Doc Tim first.”


​Our search for Tim finds us at a door with two people standing guard. Isiah greets them though I don't bother catching their names. The guy is probably around my Dad's age with thinning hair. The woman is closer to mine and Isiah's age with short blond hair. “Doc Tim in there?” I ask. The answer being yes, the middle age guy opens the door to call him out.


​A very frazzled looking Doc Tim emerges. “Any news?” He immediately asks.


​I wave him off and lead him a ways down the hall for a token of privacy.


​“Did you treat David for any injuries recently?”


​Doc Tim takes a moment to think before shaking his head. “No, David hasn't been by to see me recently.”


​“Any chance he went to see the other Doctor?”


​A huff escapes him, “Not likely. I handle most issues that pop up. When Dr. Connors does help, she sticks to the females, rarely helping guys, even the young ones.”


​“I'm sorry, but how is this pertinent?” Isiah breaks in.


​As he sounded genuinely curious I actually explain my train of thought. “Janice was made to look like an accident via zombie bite. I didn't see any bites on David.” I look to Tim.


​“I've not treated him for anything zombie related,” He confirms.


​“Was he anywhere near Janice when she turned?”


​“Wait,” Tim considers for a moment. “Yes, he was.” His eyes close as he thinks it through. “David was there. It was in one of the women's dorms but he was meeting a friend there. I looked him over afterwards, along with everyone else but he didn't have any injuries.”


​“Okay, then. Easy enough to explain it as he must have been hurt and you just missed it. Not that I think you missed anything. I didn't notice anything when I...examined him.”


​Tim puts his hand on my shoulder in sympathy but I wave that I'm fine. “So, David's proximity to Janice would explain away his turning. Anyone you have in there,” I point back to the guarded room, “friends with David?”


​“Yeah, there's a couple teens in there. One of them did get bit,” Tim explains.


​“They freaking out?”


​“Yep.”


​“Alright, bring them out so we can talk with them.”


​A short minute later a distraught girl is led out of the room. A little shorter than me with long dark brown hair pulled back and braided, she looks like she's probably of Mexican decent. Cute girl who is looking at us like the world is ending.


​“Are you going to kill me before I turn?” The girl blurts out.


​“Wait, what? We're not doing that, right?” Isiah asks, sounding almost as distraught as the girl.


​“No,” I say emphatically as I shoot Isiah a look that clearly says he's an idiot. “What's your name?”


​“Ana,” the trembling girl responds.


​“Well, I can assure you Ana that we have no plans of killing you.”


​“But, I'm going to turn,” She breaks into out right sobs.”


​“Damn it,” I mutter as I go to comfort the girl, patting her on the back and doing the typical soothing sounds. After a few minutes she calms down enough to hold a conversation. “The chances of you turning are extremely low. Just follow all of Doc Tim's advice and avoid any treatment that doesn't come straight from him. Alright?”


​Ana nods her head in agreement. “So, I actually just want to ask you some questions so we can get a better grip on what's going on, okay,” I tell her. She nods again in agreement. “Most of my questions are going to be about David. Though, just real quick has anyone other than Doc Tim tried to treat you since the attack?”


​“Um, no.


​“Good, okay. I'm going to ask a whole bunch of questions and if any of them seem a little strange it's just because we want to cover all our bases in getting a handle of what's going on. I understand you were friends with David?”


​“Yeah. We were neighbors before. We came here together,” Ana explains. She's wrapped her arms like she's giving herself a hug, head tilted down and her foot scuffing back and forth on the floor.


​“So, you knew him pretty well then?”


​“Yeah.”


​“He never got the vaccine, correct? Either one.”


​“Yeah, no. They hadn't really started vaxxing teens or kids yet. They were saying at school that they were going to start holding vax drives at the school soon, though.”


​“Okay, that's good info. As far as you're aware was David ever bit by a zombie?”


​“No. They don't really like to let us younger people out of the school. They think they're keeping us safe, or whatever.”


​“Yeah, I'm sure you're not feeling the safest at the moment. I'm going to ask again, just to be clear. No bites on David? Did he get any kind of injury when Janice attacked?”


​“No, not at all,” Ana says emphatically. “He was meeting me at my room that I shared with Janice and the others. He did come in when everything went crazy but he didn't get super near her. He just grabbed me and pulled me out of the room. Plus, we got checked out afterwards.”


​“Good, good info.” Time to swing this conversation. “I'm afraid I never got to know David. Seems like he was a good guy, though.”


​“The best,” she cries out. Some tears and sniffling follow but she's able to gather herself together quickly. “He was a really great guy. I don't think I would have made it here without him. And he was always trying to help. He was volunteering all the time. He helped watch the younger kids. Helped in the kitchen. He even offered to help the doctors or to go on supply runs.”


​“He offered to help the Doctors?” That's interesting, not sure if it's relevant though.


​“Well, Doc Tim. Doctor Connors doesn't really like boys,” She whispers like it's a secret.


​“Did he ever help Doc Tim out?”


​“No, not yet. There's another guy that's been helping him out, um, Brandon.”


​“Yeah, I've met Brandon,” I tell her. “Was there anyone who didn't like David?”


​“Not, like, really. Small fights happen, but, like that's just because it's a really stressful situation.”


​“That it is,” I agree. “Can you maybe think of anything that stands out about any disagreements David might have had? Or if any were recent?”


​Ana gives it some thought before responding. “I can't say anything really sticks out. Recent disagreements, um, like I said he helped in the kitchen, sometimes people would get upset accusing them of favoritism, of giving bigger portions to some than others. Not a disagreement as we didn't know who did it, but, um, David had some of his things go missing not long ago.”


​“What kind of things?” Isiah asks, finally stepping into the investigation.


​“A pocket knife that was his grandpa's. Socks, of all things. Weird, right? And some pictures of his Mom.”


​“Okay, good. That's all really good info. Anything else you can think of that stands out in, say the last two weeks or so?”


​A head shake, “No, I can't think of anything.”


​“That's alright. If you do think of anything, any little thing, just find Frank, or Doc Tim, or one of these guys,” I hike a thumb towards Isiah and Simon. “Go one back and send out your other friend.” Ana starts to walk away. “Oh, wait. Two-three days ago. Anything happen?”


​“Not that I can think of.” Ana starts to walk away again before stopping. “Wait. I didn't see it but David did tell me that he had a run in with someone else. Like, a literal run in. Rounded a corner and bumped into someone else. They both fell down. He laughed about it, complained he landed hard on his butt. Made it seem like the other person found it funny, too.”


​“Do you know who he ran into?”


​“No, afraid not.”


​“Alright, thanks again for talking with us,” I tell her. Once she's far enough away I think I can get away with whispering and her not hearing I turn to the other guys. I'm surprised as hell when it's the tall and silent Simon that speaks.


​“Overlap with the kitchen.” Damn his voice is super deep. Way deeper than you'd think someone as thin as him would have.


​“Yeah. They both worked in the kitchen, so that could be the connection.”


​“The run in,” Simon speaks again.


​“Yeah, I'm stuck on that too. He complained about a sore ass from the fall, but that's also where he was injected.”


​“Suspicious,” Isiah says.


​“That it is,” I agree.


Chapter Fifteen


​Questioning David's other friend that was attacked goes much the same. The teen was on the short side, not having hit his puberty growth spurt yet with messy auburn hair. He couldn't think of anyone who had a problem with David and also wasn't sure who David had his literal run in with.


​We head off to find the other kids who hung out with David. We end up outside the gym which is being used as a daycare for the younger kids. You'd think having all the kids in one location would be a disaster as all the noise would attract zombies. At least that would be my thought, but the soundproofing on the room is amazing. Walking up to the gym you can hear a solid murmur of voices but it isn't all that loud. Opening the door? Yeah that's like stepping straight into a riot. There's dozens of kids just running around playing with each other.


​“Holy shit,” escapes me.


​“Yeah, they're pretty loud,” Isiah grimaces.


​“That too, but, so many kids.” No, that's not a tear in my eye that I'm quickly blinking away. I know that I was told at some point that there were several kids here, but I am surprised at just how many. It's both amazing and saddening. “How many have parents here?”


​“Not many,” Isiah tells me. “Most of then arrived here on their own. They went to school here, so when they left their homes this is the only other place they could think to go.”


​“I'm glad they made it here,” Stupid more not-tears get quickly wiped away. “Alright, let's do this.”


​It's teens who are watching the younger kids. I start counting in my head. “Guys, are there more teens that aren't here right now?”


​“Yeah, there's several more, these are just the ones who are watching the younger kids or are here to hang out.” Isiah answers me.


​“Isiah?” I say with my eyes clenched shut.


​“Yeah?”


​“Are there more kids than adults here?”


​“Yeah?” his answer comes out a question.


​“Damnit,” I quietly exclaim, not wanting to draw too much attention from the kids.


​“What?” Isiah questions, not seeing the problem.


​“We're aware,” Simon grumbles. It's hard for a voice that deep to whisper and it not sound like a grumble.


​“I don't get it,” Isiah admits.


​“Later. We can talk later, or better yet go talk to Frank.”


​Isiah gives a reluctant nod.


​Kids are good, kids are the future. Right? Right, except kids make for easy victims, especially without enough adults around to protect them.


​It might be the wrong call but as it will take a ridiculous amount of time to talk to all the kids individually we decide to split them into groups. Even with them split into smaller groups it's surprisingly intimidating talking in front of a bunch of kids.


​You can tell I'm not used to dealing with kids or they wouldn't be surprising the hell out of me. Like how quickly the figure out what's going on.


​“Are you asking these questions because someone made Janice and David turn into dead-heads?” One of the kids asks from where they're seated on the bleachers with us adults standing in front of them.


​Simon smothers a laugh while Isiah sputters in surprise. “We're not entirely sure what happened, which is why we're asking questions,” I respond.


​We ask the kids if they can think of anyone who didn't like Janice or David, anyone who was angry with them.


​“Well, Lacy was angry when David put her in time out for taking a toy away from Sammy,” One little girl says, pointing out the other kids in question. The kids in question being no more than six or seven years old.


​“How about it Lacy? Sammy? Did you do anything to hurt David or Janice?” I ask.


​“No way. David was my favorite. He snuck us candy,” Lacy responds.


​“I didn't think so. Alright, kids if you think of absolutely anything you come let one of us know, or you can let Frank or Doc Tim know, okay? It doesn't have to be about David or Janice, either. If anything strange happens, if anything is worrying you, let us know. Go back to play.” They all quickly run off to play again.


​“Ugh,” I rub frustrated hands over my brow, trying to ward off a forming headache. “Let's go check in with the others.”


​I'm sure there's other things I should have asked that I didn't think of, but, damn it, I'm not a trained investigator. I'm just winging it here.


<<<<<<<>>>>>>>


​We meet outside at the far end of the fenced in area  for privacy's sake. More mentally exhausted then physical , but exhausted all the same I plop down on the damp earth and sprawl on my back, eyes closed to just a slit.


​“Well, excluding a six year old we didn't hit any specific names of people who had any issue with David. Though, it was mentioned that David helped out in the kitchen sometimes and that people would get upset if they thought they weren't getting as much food as someone else,” I inform the group from my prone position. I hear someone flop down beside me but don't turn to look. I trust it's not a zombie so I just don't have it in me to care at the moment. “Oh, and we know roughly when and how David got injected but not who the hell did it.”


​“How'd it happen?” Frank asks.


​“He literally ran into the guy. A fucking meet cute, all rounding a corner and oops, limbs flailing.” My own arms wave around in emphasis. “The only complaint was a sore ass from landing on it. He just laughed it off, not even realizing he'd been attacked. No one could remember him saying who it was he ran into.”             


​“Well, fuck,” Frank curses.


​“Yep,” I agree. “How'd you do?”


​“We also learned about David helping out in the kitchen. So, that's a commonality. But no one stuck out as having an issue with those two. I do have a list of people to talk to but it's fucking raised voices over who got more mashed potatoes,” Frank says in tired frustration.


​“You'd know better than me, but do people really kill others about who got the bigger fucking brownie?” I ask.


​A snort from beside me letting me know it's Tank who flopped down next to me accompanies Franks own scoff. “I've seen people kill over a few dollars, over a new pair of shoes. One women got fed up at her husband constantly complaining about her cooking and beat him over the head with a pan. So, yeah, people would kill over something as simple as someone else getting more than them in the food line.”


​“Okay, I'll concede that point. It just...doesn't feel right. Does it? I feel like it's something else. But then, what the fuck do I know?”


​“I'd actually agree. Doesn't fit this quite right does it? It's a little too thought out to just be basic disgruntlement.”


​“Damn, Frank, you keep using those big words and I might have to rethink my opinion of you.”


My words earn me a large sigh from Frank and some muffled laughter from a couple of the others.


​“Isiah, any input from you?” Frank asks.


​“Oh, well, um,” He clears his throat. “Well, I'd have to say that speaking with the kids didn't give us any strong leads. The victim was well liked by his peers. No recent incidents, at least that he talked about with others, other than the run in that Sadie mentioned.”


​Oh, look at Isiah sounding all official like.


​ “Simon?” Frank asks.


​A small grunt before his deep voice sounds out, “Wouldn't be surprised if some of the kids try to approach by themselves. Probably didn't want to talk in a crowd. Kids notice more than they're given credit for.”


​“What about you, Mr. Tank?” Is that sarcasm is Franks voice?


​“I did in fact talk with your boy Chase. He was a font of information. Let me get my notes.” Some rustling beside me as Tank reaches into one of his pockets. “Ah, yes. So, apparently there was some recent drama among the teens. So, Derick was discovered in the buff with M.J.. The problem is that Derick was already dating a girl named Jessica and M.J. was with a guy named Ian. Some disgruntlement happens that ends with Derick and Jessica calling it quits-Jessica's idea. Ian stays with M.J. despite the cheating as she claims she'll never do it again. Spoiler-she does it again. This time M.J. is caught with Manny. Except Manny didn't think they were cheating. M.J. claimed her and Ian had broken up. You'd think in a place this small he would have checked. Anyway, Ian mislays the blame on Manny and they get in a tussle before Manny throws in the towel saying no girl is worth this, especially not in a 'fucking apocalypse'.”


​Frank is the first to get himself together after that information dump. “How does any of that have to do with David?”


​“As far as I know, nothing. But, that's the only recent drama that Chase could think of among the teens. He couldn't think of a single instance of David having issues. Kid was a good guy, always trying to help out. The younger kids loved him. If all of this hadn't happened he'd planned to follow his Mom into the healthcare field.” Tank puts the notebook back in his pocket. “As for Janice, Chase said that she was a nice enough women. Kept to the kitchens. She did have a huge crush on a guy so we might want to talk to him.”


​“Who?” Frank asks with a bit of impatience.


​“Some guy named Frank.” I can hear the smug smile in his voice.


​Pure disbelief enters Franks voice. “What? She never...I never.” He clears his voice as he collects himself. “I didn't realize she liked me. We never spent any time together.”


​As fun as Frank's discomfort is, I move things along. “You've gone through David's things, right?”             


​“Yes, we've been through his things,” Franks confirms.


​“I'm assuming, then, that there wasn't a convenient diary saying so and so hates me?”


​“Unfortunately not. We've got no real leads.”


​“Great, just fucking great.”


Chapter Sixteen


​With no real alternatives available the cafeteria was reopened for dinner. Whoever cleaned up did a good job of it. No physical signs remain of what happened, just the visions left in our heads. With my lunch plate full of mashed potatoes covered in a creamy noodle soup and a side of mixed vegetables, I make my way to an unoccupied table in the corner.


​Miguel, Theo, and Tank all join me at my table. The room as a whole feels rather subdued. Many probably not comfortable after what happened before. Still, people have to eat and here is the only real option for them.


​The noodles and mashed potatoes actually taste rather good. The mixed vegetables on the other hand- yuck. I pick my way through them, eating the corn and green beans while avoiding the carrots and peas. I know you shouldn't turn down any food when your next meal isn't guaranteed but canned peas just taste like a disgusting mush.


​Tank, not having the same issue, scoops the leftover peas and carrots from my plate and eats them himself. Miguel gives the interaction a strange look but doesn't voice whatever his thought is.


​“Hey, Sades, I think someone wants your attention,” Miguel tells me, pointing over my shoulder.


​I look back then down to see one of the kids from earlier. It's the little girl who David had put in time out for her toy stealing ways. “Hi, Lacy, right?” She nods confirmation. “Is there something I can help you with, Lacy?”


​A nod, then a head shake, followed by another nod.


​“Do you want to tell me here?”


​Another head shake.


​“Okay. Would you like to go with me into the hall and tell me there?”


​A nod.


​“Okay, sweetheart. Let's step out into the hall.” I reach out my hand for her and once she takes it I lead her to the hallway outside the cafeteria. We walk a little ways down past the noise of the cafeteria.


​I kneel down on one knee so that I'm at her level. “Alright Lacy, is this a good spot to talk?”


​“Yeah,” She says softly twisting her hands in the bottom of her shirt but not saying anything else.


​After a few moments pass I wonder if it would be easier for her if I ask some questions. “Does this have something to do with David?”


​“I'm not sure. I don't think so,” Her brow scrunches at her own confusion.


​“Did you see something that seems strange or did someone do something that has you worried?”


​“I'm not sure.”


​Not giving me a lot to go on here. Got to remember she's just a young kid. “Well, whatever you'd like to tell me, I'd like to hear. I'm all ears.” I reach up to flick my ears for emphasis which earns me a little laugh.


​“It's just, the nurse man asked some questions that I didn't like.”


​“The nurse man? Do you mean Doc Tim?” Please say no. I'd hate to think I've been completely wrong in my opinion of the guy.


​“No. He helps Doc Tim.”


​I suck with names so it takes me a second to retrieve it. “Do you mean Brandon?”


​“Yeah. The nurse man who helps with Doc Tim.”


​“Okay, okay. I know who you mean. You said he asks you some questions you didn't like?” Please, whatever god may be listening, please don't let this be leading to where I think it might.


​“Yeah. He asked a bunch of questions about before I came here.”


​Okay, so far not going to the scary place. “Like what happened to my Mommy and my Daddy. He wanted to know if they became the dead-heads,” She whispers the last words. “He wanted to know if I watched them die,” a small shudder rocks through her. “If I had seen anyone die.”


​“Those do seem a little odd to be asking. Did anyone else ask you questions like that?


​“When I came here Miss Kate asked if I was alone. Then she gave me a hug and a cookie.”


​“Miss Kate is nice, isn't she?” A firm head nod in answer. “Now it's my turn to ask a strange question. Did Brandon ever touch you? Try to touch?”


​“No,” Lacy responds with a confused head shake.


​“Good, good. You know Miss Kate is a great adult to talk to if you ever have anything like this to talk about. I know Frank can be a little scary but Miss Kate isn't. So, if I'm not here and you need to talk to someone that isn't Frank, Miss Kate is a great choice. Alright? Let's get you back to the cafeteria.”


​Reentering the cafeteria Lacy runs to join the other kids while I go back to my corner table.


​“Well?” Theo asks impatiently before my butt even hits the seat.


​“Well....” I let it hang for a second while staring directly at Theo just to make him wait. “Well, I think we've got our first strong suspect.”


​Theo makes a go on motion with his hand. “Not here,” I tell him.


Chapter Seventeen


​“So, who's our guy?,” Theo asks in a too loud voice.


​I give him a quelling look as we make our way towards the men's bunk after dinner. Most people are still in the cafeteria for some socialization after dinner so we should have a little privacy in the dorm.


​Reaching the room I plop down on the bed I've used before. It doesn't look like anyone else has used it since me. Theo takes his normal bunk while Miguel sits down beside me and Tank stays standing.


​“What have you got?” Tank asks.


​“A weirded out little girl and a gut feeling.”


​“What? I thought you actually had something,” Theo moans as he flops back dramatically.


​“Kids and dogs. They can be better judges of character than most adults. And gut feeling are usually your subconscious trying to tell you something,” Tank says.


​“Lacy, the little girl, she says that she was asked some odd questions that she didn't like. I'd have to agree with the oddness. She was asked about if her Mom and Dad had turned to zombies. Not too odd, right? Only then she was asked if she saw them die, if she's watched anyone die. The questions didn't come across as someone concerned with her well being,” I share with them.


​“Like someone trying to get some cheap thrills out of other's trauma?” Tank asks.


​Pointing a finger at him, “Exactly. Like the person was trying to get her to relive her trauma.”


​“Who was it?” Miguel asks from beside me.


​“Brandon.” The name doesn't do much for the guys. “He's a teen who happens to be acting as an assistant to Doc Tim. He was also on the team that was at the pharmacy when Janice got attacked. I'm honestly surprised I didn't think of him sooner. Means and opportunity.”


​Theo sits back up, his early dramatics over as he gets serious. “But he's just a kid. You really think a kid decided to take some of the vaccines from the pharmacy and start stabbing people with them? Why would he do that?”


​“I don't know. I'm not even sure. But his questions were definitely odd and he had access,” I say.


​“Shouldn't we go to Frank with this?” Theo asks.


​“We absolutely will. We have a meeting with him first thing in the morning.”


​“Should it really wait?” Theo insists.


​“I'll go tell him now, okay?” At Theo's look of relief I get up to go track down Frank.


<<<<<<<>>>>>>>


​“Anything else that points to him other than the uncomfortable questioning and your gut feeling?,” Frank asks. The fact that he sounds tired and not sarcastic stops me from snapping at him.


​“He had means and opportunity.”


​Frank nods along. “No one has mentioned him having an issue with either victim.”


​“Yeah, his name didn't come up in relation to David. Just that he weirded Lacy out.”


​“Okay, it's not a lot to go on but it's something. We'll search his things,” Frank says.


​“Now?,” I ask


​“No, we'll do it tomorrow, preferably when he's occupied helping Doc Tim. Let's just hope waiting isn't a mistake,” Frank says with a tired sigh.


​“You need me on that?”


​“No. I've got it covered. I'll let you know how it goes. Until then, keep an eye out. We could be completely off base with Brandon. He is just a teen,” Frank tells me.


​“Because teens have never killed?”


​“Ugh, I'm so tired of this whole fucking apocalypse,” Frank groans in frustration, rubbing a hand across the back of his tense neck.


​“I hear you, dude.”


​“Don't call me dude,” Frank tells me with a stern look. “It's Frank or Sir.”


​“Ha. You wish. See you later.”


<<<<<<<>>>>>>>


​On my way back to the men's dorm room I run into Miguel. “Hey, Miguel.”


​“You talk with Frank?”


​“Yeah, all done. He'll look into it tomorrow.”


​“Alright, that's good.”


​One second we're just talking then the next thing I know Miguel has my head cradled in his hands and his lips are connecting with mine. I'm frozen with shock for a moment before basic instinct takes over and I'm meeting his lips with my own. My own hands grasp at his sides. It's an intense kiss that has me loosing track of time in a tangle of lips and tongues. I'm a bit breathless when he pulls back.


​I'm left gazing into his beautifully dark eyes as he tells me, “I think she's gone.”


​It takes a few seconds for that to compute. I jerk my head out of his hands. “She's gone? As in your wife? Did you just kiss me to avoid your wife?” Why yes that is a heavy dose of accusation in my voice.


​“Ex,” the correction slips out automatically before he seems to realize he's in deep shit. “Um, I mean, of course I want to kiss you.”


​“I'm going to ask you to just stop now before I get even more aggravated.”


​“But, we've kissed before,” Miguel tries to rationalize.


​“Once and not as a 'fuck you' to your wife,” I try to explain to his terminally male mind.


​“But you don't even like Brittany.” He seems genuinely confused.


​“It's not about-ugh. Just stop talking to me.”


​I stalk away from Miguel as he sputters trying to come up with an adequate response. Not really a way to save the fact that he kissed me to get at his ex and not to just kiss me.


​I don't know why I'm not shocked to find Tank waiting around the next corner.


​“Trouble with lover boy?” He asks.


​“Don't even start with me,” I snarl.


​He hooks his arm through mine as I go to stalk past him, swinging me in a different direction.


​“Come on, Tank. I just want to go lay down,” I complain at being hijacked.


​“Me, too. But I am not sleeping in a room full of guys I don't know. I found us somewhere else. I've already moved your stuff.”


​At this point I'm just too tired to fight and go along with him. He leads me to a classroom that's chock full of desks and chairs. Guess they just shoved them all in here when they were clearing out the other rooms to use. Tank has cleared a space and laid out a couple of pallets.


​I flop down on the pallet with my bag beside it, throwing an arm over my eyes to block out the world. My foot gets jostled by Tank's.


​“Come on, little demon, don't let lover boy's stupidity get you down.”


​I just huff at him.


​I hear him settle down onto the other pallet that's maybe two feet away. “Why'd you start calling me 'little demon'?”


​“Are you kidding? You're a little monster when it comes to using that hammer and hatchet. Quite the little killing machine,” Tank explains.


​Okay, then. Wait.


​“Tank?”


​“Yeah?”


​ I raise up on my elbows to stare at him. “The last time I saw you I was still using that machete I found and a baseball bat.”


​“Oh, yeah,” He says with a fond smile. He leaves it there.


​I don't think so. I kick his foot. “Tank, have you seen me since the last time I saw you?”


​“Maybe.”


​“Duuude,” I growl.


​“Okay, okay. Don't get your panties in a twist,” he says with a laugh. “I didn't feel right just letting you run off on your own. So, I followed behind to make sure you made it somewhere safe. Of course you didn't right off.”


​“The blue house? I had to run from there. Barefoot,” I say more to myself than him as I remember.


​“I'm aware.” There's a dark tone in Tank's voice that sends my gaze winging to his. “Just so you know, that guy won't be a concern again.” The seriousness fades and he's got a grin again. “Since then I've maybe checked up on you a few times. You've had some adventures. I was actually running late on checking on you when you showed up.” That darkness is back as he continues, “If I'd left when I'd originally planned you wouldn't have been fucking kidnapped.” Tank takes a deep breath, centering himself in a way I've not seen him have to do before. “But, being that little demon you are, you got yourself out of that and that bastard is zombie food.”


​How do I even respond to all of that? “How about in the future, instead of stalking me like a creep you can just stop in and say hi?”


​“I could do that. Maybe you'll let me stay over at that cute purple house.”


​“You know about the new house?” Why am I even surprised at this point.


​“It's been weeks.”


​“You're such a creepy stalker.”


​“What? It's not like I'm the weird kind of stalker that wants to wear your skin,” Tank says like that makes it better.


​“How do I know that?”


​“Dom would have put me down by now if he thought I would hurt you.”


​“How has he put up with you for so long?” I ask only slightly joking.


​“He values my skills.”


​“Oh, yes, all those skills that don't really seem like things typically taught to tank crewmen.”


​“I'll have you know I really did drive tanks and other armored vehicles,” Tank claims.


​“But?”


​“But, I was maybe pulled to do other things, too,” He explains cryptically.


​“What kinds of other things?”


​“Things that I can't talk about.”


​“Even though our government likely doesn't exist anymore?” I ask.


​“Yes. Just because the government may have fallen doesn't absolve me of the oaths I took.”


​“Okay. Just to clarify again, you don't want to wear my skin?”


​“I'm not going to Buffalo Bill you, Sadie,” Tank says with a laugh.


​“Just want to be sure.”


​“Go to sleep, my little demon.”


Chapter Eighteen


​Morning absolutions without running water fucking suck. After peeing in what is essentially a bucket I use a liberal amount of hand sanitizer. Recognizing the fact that I stink I make my way to the ladies locker room. Water might not be running but the drains still work, at least for now. I set to work with a washrag, bottle of water, and some soap. I'm thankful for the shorter hair. When it was still long it took forever to try and clean with limited water. I was usually left with soap in my hair that I didn't have enough water to rinse out. At least cleaner than when I started I toss on some deodorant and clean-ish clothes.


​Stepping out of the locker room I'm greeted by a Tank that's casually leaning against the wall, likely standing guard to make sure no one came in while I was cleaning up, and Miguel looking disgruntled with his arms crossed. Theo is also there, eyes ping ponging between the other two with a look of amusement.


​“Is there a problem, boys?” I ask.


​Miguel doesn't take his gaze off of Tank as he responds to me. “You never came back to the dorm room last night.”


​“Sadie and I found somewhere else to sleep,” Tank answers.


​Miguel's jaw tenses. My teeth ache in sympathy for his with how hard he's clenching. Finally abandoning his watch of Tank, Miguel strides over to me grabbing my arm and leading me a few feet away. “Is there something you want to tell me?”


​“About what?” My confusion comes though loud and clear in my voice.


​“About you and 'Tank'?” There's clear derision over Tank's nickname. When did he start hating on Tank?


​“What the hell? First of all you're acting like a jealous boyfriend. Two- Tank and I aren't fucking. It's not like that between us.”


​“Well, actually...” Sounds out from behind us. Clearly we're still in earshot of the other two.


​“Quit trying to stir shit, Tank,” I growl with a great deal of exasperation. “No one wants to fuck me, Miguel.”


​“Umm,” A nervous laugh has me looking back at Theo. “What? You're hot,” Theo says with a shrug.


​“Oh my god! Is this a fucking soap opera? Or maybe just a dream? More like nightmare. You know what? I'm out. I'm gonna find Frank. At least I know he doesn't want to fuck me.”


​“You sure about that?” Tank calls out as I quick step away from the insane males I've been hanging out with. In response I hold my middle finger up over my shoulder.


​I track Frank down to where he's having a cup of coffee in the cafeteria. It's fairly empty in here. I don't know if that means I'm early or late to breakfast. I need to get a new watch. “Please tell me you don't want to fuck me.”


​Frank sputters around his mouthful of coffee. “What the fuck?” He responds as he wipes coffee off his chin.


​“Sorry, just some dumb ass drama,” I tell him as I bang my head against the table.


​“I take it you found out your boys want to have sex with you?”


​I pick my head up to stare at him.


​“Don't take it so seriously. You're an attractive woman.”


​“You just grimaced saying that,” I point out.


​“To some. Those who aren't put off by your personality. Anyway,” he continues, “men already think about sex fairly often. Add in that you're attractive and that this whole apocalypse shit has us all running on more adrenaline and cortisol than is healthy and you've got guys wanting to fuck.”


​“So, what you're saying is that it isn't really about me. I'm just a convenient body?” I clarify.


​Frank gets a deer in the headlights look. “Oh, shit,” he mutters.


​“No, actually that helps. Maybe that would offend someone else but I think it's reassuring. Like maybe they aren't hanging out with me just because they want to fuck me. But they want to fuck me just because we spend time together. Okay, I'm feeling a little less murdery.”


​Frank's shoulders loosen in relief and he feels safe enough to drink his coffee again.


​“Any news?” I ask, trying to be circumspect. There might not be many people around us but I still don't want to chance saying something that'll freak them out.


​A head shake from Frank. “Gonna give it a bit longer to make sure he's occupied before I search. I'm gonna be honest. I really hope I don't find anything.”


​My eyebrows wing up in surprise. You'd think he'd want this over and done with. Clearly reading my expression Frank responds, “I don't know what to do if it's a fucking kid.”


​Okay, that I understand. “What would you do if it's an adult?”


​A snort of derision proceeds his words. “They were having trouble coming to a consensus. I was told to handle it at my own discretion.”


​“You know that's just scapegoating you?”


​“I'm aware,” He agrees. “There's only two real options.”


​Mindful of my words, “Direct or turning them out?”


​Frank nods his agreement. “I don't think I can...be direct with a kid.”


​“This isn't the kind of thing that just stops. Turning them out leaves the opportunity to do it again,” I point out, though I'm sure he's already considered it.


​“Or, it's it's own death sentence.”


​“Fuck. This new world fucking sucks.”


​“That it does,” Frank agrees with a troubled sigh, staring unseeing into his coffee.


<<<<<<<>>>>>>>


​After a breakfast consisting of my own cup of coffee I leave the cafeteria trying to think of what I should be doing with my day. Of course, my already beyond stressed self gets ambushed by someone I don't want to speak to.


​“You can't just keep avoiding me, Sadie. We need to talk.” He's using his stern voice, so familiar from my childhood.


​“You want to talk, Stanley. Fine, let's talk,” I agree. I can hear the agitation in my voice but don't care to control it.


​“Really? You can't even call me Dad?” He asks in disbelief, his arms held out in disbelief.


​“No, you see my Dad, yeah he died somewhere between me putting down my own mother and burying her in the backyard and then watching my Nana, his Mom, take her last breathes in her own bed. My Dad is dead. You are Stanley, a stranger I don't know and don't want to get to know.”


​“That is not fair Sadie. These are unusual times,” Stanley claims.


​“You know what, I don't know if it is fair or not. I don't care. These are unusual times and I'm just trying to survive them. I've been doing that without my Dad and will continue to do so without my Dad. Just accept it and move on with your girlfriend.” Done with the whole situation I turn away from him and walk off. He tries calling out to me but I just ignore him.


​Who knew the fucking apocalypse would be just as much a soap opera as a horror movie?


Chapter Nineteen


​I've the urge to go out and just start beating on something but am able to hold onto reason enough to not run out willy-nilly. Instead I seek some form of isolation on the roof. There's only one other guy up there and he's ignoring me as he slowly makes his rounds around the roof, on the look out for anything troublesome.


​Frank finds me up there. I'm laying on my back watching all the dark clouds roll by. It's definitely fall now. We'll have far more dark cloudy days than sunny for the next couple of months. That means the zombies will be more active during the days, because what we need is more issues trying to find supplies and survive.


​“Why am I always having to track you down? And why is it up here where I have to climb stairs to get to you?” Frank asks in exasperation.


​“You're just lucky like that, I guess. Anything?”


​“Not a damn thing. His bunk, his bags are all clear. No needles. No meds other than some over the counter stuff. No fucking manifesto or anything to make him look remotely suspicious,” Frank says, scuffing his foot with frustration. He may not want it to be a kid but that also means he's back to no real leads.


​“What now?” I ask him.


​“Now, I go start asking people if they were pissed off enough about not getting the last brownie to start killing people. Or I just start searching the whole fucking school.”


​The roof door bangs open, followed by an out of breath Isiah. “Frank, Frank.” He pauses to catch his breath.


​“We've found it, him.”


​“What do you mean?” Frank asks him.


​“We got a tip. We found a whole stash of those vaccines.”


​“Well, who was it?” Frank demands impatiently.


​“It was Doc Tim,” Isiah confesses.


​That has me jumping to my feet. “No, that doesn't make any sense.”


​“It's what we found,” Isiah insists.


​“Frank, it doesn't fit.”


​“Maybe we were wrong. Means and opportunity, Sadie. I've got to go look into it,” Frank tells me as he hustles to get down to the action.


​“It doesn't make any fucking sense,” I tell myself out loud. Was I really that wrong about Doc Tim? He'd have to be an amazing liar. Which sociopaths and psychopaths usually are, which you'd need to be for this kind of cold blooded murder. No. Nope. I just can't wrap my head around that. What to do?


<<<<<<<>>>>>>>


​It's to the little ones who hear and see more than we give them credit for that I go to. “Hey, Lacy, do you think I could talk with you and your friends again?”


​In answer the little girl grabs my hand and hauls me over to a group who are playing with building blocks. “Hey guys. You remember me from yesterday?” That gets me a series of eye rolls and 'duh's'. “Yeah, stupid question. I have more questions for you. Well, really just one question.” I don't know if it's my tone of voice or what but all of the little eyes in that group focus on me.


​“I know that kids are often overlooked by adults. That you guys are able to go places and do things without being noticed.” The kids all exchange looks wondering if they're about to get in trouble. “Nurse Man, Brandon?,” I use what Lacy had called him before, “Have you ever seen him going someplace that maybe other people don't go? Maybe seen him sneaking somewhere?”


​More shared looks between the kids. “Why do you want to know?” The question comes from a boy a bit older than Lacy's main group, maybe about ten years old. He's working on some complicated looking contraption by himself on the edge of the group.


​After a small consideration I decide to go with the truth, if limited. “I think he did something bad. I think he hurt people and I'm looking for evidence.”


​“You think he's the one who killed David and Janice,” the ten your old boy says as a statement not a question.


​“David and Janice turned into zombies.”


​“Yeah, but people don't just turn. It doesn't spread like a disease,” the little boy states in a 'duh' tone of voice.


​“I agree with you.”


​“You're right that people don't really notice us. Especially if we don't want to be noticed.” The kid doesn't speak like I'd expect most kids to talk, but then again I'm not really around kids. “I've maybe seen him slip into a room a couple of times when he thought no one was paying attention.”


​“Can you tell me where?” This is it. It has to be.


​“I can show you.”


​The older teens that are watching the younger kids don't even try to stop us as the boy who stands to about my shoulder height leads me out. With quiet even paces he walks with his head slightly bent. The casualness of his walk invites your gaze to just skip over him, nothing interesting to see here. A few turns later he leads me to a door labeled 'Utility'. He goes to open the door but I stop him with a hand on his shoulder.


​“I've got it from here. Thank you. Now, please, go straight back to the other kids. I won't ask you guys to just stop what you're doing but maybe pause for a few days until whatever this is, gets settled.”


​The kid gives me a searching look before nodding his agreement and leaving back the way we came. Opening the door the room is pitch black. Of course it is. I do have a pen light in my pocket but a bigger light would have been good. I contemplate grabbing the lantern sitting in the hall. There's at least one in all the hallways because there's no freaking electricity. Okay, I admit that I'm still really salty at the lack of electricity. Really fucking upset about the lack of running water. Of warm water. But that's not what's important at the moment.


​Deciding not to grab the lantern from the hallway as that might raise suspicions, I dig the tiny flashlight from my pocket. Maybe if women's pant were designed more like men's with actual pockets and not the tiny things we're stuck with I would have been able to fit a larger flashlight.


​Cables, pipes, some machinery that's probably hvac related and some storage shelves are what comprise the room. Not one to give up a routine, I make a circuit of the room just like I would when checking a new place for zombies. It also let's me see what all spots can be searched.


​I start with the obvious and go to the storage shelves. My search turns up tools, cables, wires, and other assorted maintenance items. Nothing suspicious so far. It takes time as I'm trying to be as thorough as possible. Boxes that look like they're just full of tools get emptied out and gone through, no stone left unturned.


​Maybe I was wrong. Could be the guy just comes in here for privacy. God knows I'd need a little escape if I lived here. Too stubborn to just give up I continue my search. And I turn up jack squat. Ugh. “Fuck.” One more time. Just go over everything one more time.


​Is that a loose panel? A panel on what I think is an HVAC machine isn't actually attached. All but one screw has been removed. That one screw is leaving the panel hanging in place so at first, or even second glance, it looks to be in place. It takes very little effort to move the panel, swinging it on the screw. Shoved inside the machine is a small zippered bag like you'd use for your toiletries.


​Is that a small tremble in my hand as I reach for the bag? I stick the small pen light between my teeth to use both hands. The zipper slides open with ease. “Well, fuck.”


​“Whatcha doing? Sadie, right?”


​My penlight drops from my mouth in surprise. I'd been so intent on what I was doing I never heard the door open.


​“Oh. Brandon, right? Just trying to find a quiet place. Not used to being around so many people these days.”


​“Sure, I get that,” He says with a genial smile as he closes the door behind himself locking it shut. The lantern in his hand he sets down on the floor.


​This isn't going to go well. I carefully set the little bag down, not wanting to disturb it's contents. Right about now I'm regretting the fact that I didn't grab a weapon before going on my search.


​“You know, I knew you'd be the problem,” Brandon says with that  gentle smile on his face.


​“I don't know what you mean,” I pretend a bit of ignorance.


​“Right. Things were going just fine. Everyone thinking it was just a terrible accident, that the rules of the game had changed. It was quite fun, actually. Everyone who'd ever been bitten before wondering if they would be the next to turn. Watching those around them with suspicion. Will they be the next? It was so much fun. But then there you are. Asking questions.”


​“Anyone would ask questions,” I reason.


​“Except they weren't. So much easier to just believe that this whole zombie apocalypse had found a new way to screw us over.”


​Think, Sadie, think. I'm not armed, why the fuck am I not armed? But there's plenty of shit around the room I can use if I can get to it fast enough. The guy doesn't exactly seem like a powerhouse. He's around my own height and on the gangly side. I think I can take him hand to hand. And that is one giant knife. Where the fuck was he keeping that?


​With no break in expression, just smiling away, Brandon had reached behind himself and pulled out a truly wicked looking knife. It's hard not to just stare at the knife but I need to watch all of him for some warning that he's about to move.


​“Well, seeing as it's just out there now, I do have one question,” I say as I try to buy time and come up with a plan, any damn plan.


​“Oh, and what's that?”


​“Why?” Okay that's not just buying time, I genuinely want to know.


​“Do you mean why Janice and David? Or why at all?”


​“Both, I guess.”


​“It could just as well have been others. I didn't so much single them out as it was just a matter of good timing,” Brandon admits.


​“I doubt they'd think it was good timing.”


​“Eh,” Brandon shrugs. “As for why? I'd have to say pure curiosity.”


​“Curiosity?” I sputter in disbelief.


​“My parents got their vaccines. I wanted to get mine too but they just said they weren't giving them to teens yet. He didn't even try to get it for me even though they were both pretty powerful attorney's.” His smile falls for a moment, overtaken by a dark look before quickly fading back to happy. “Anyway, they got their vaccines at the same time. But,” He's talking with his hands, the knife waving about, “they didn't turn at the same time. I guess Dad turned first and started munching on Mom before she also turned. I'd say that's where the curiosity started. Why'd they turn at different times?Then we were at that pharmacy and it was like providence set those vaccines in front of me.


​“It was easy enough to give Janice hers. I told her it was a tetanus shot. She followed a fairly normal time line. I'd say she died in her sleep and turned. Now, David. David was different. It actually took him longer but when he did turn it was like a switch was flipped.” He snaps the fingers on his free hand for emphasis. “One moment he was normal then bam. Zombie. I've never heard of that before, have you?” Excitement laces his words.


​All I can do is shake my head no.


​“I'll have to see if it it happens again to someone else.”


​“What, you just plan on continuing, on turning more people into zombies?” I ask.


​“You really think the scientist aren't doing the same as they try to find a cure?” Brandon justifies.


​“But you're not trying to find a cure, are you?”


​“Nope, you've got me there,” Brandon gives a light laugh.


​“Geez, have you always been this way?”


​“I have always had a very high intellectual curiosity. There were maybe a few neighborhood pets that went missing to assuage my curiosity.”


​“So, you're just straight up crazy.”


​“No! I do not like that word,” Brandon's smile drops with a snarl. “I have an intelligent mind that isn't hampered by your pesky little conscious and morality. Crazy people go off the fuck rails. I am fully in control.”


​“Right.” Nope, those are definitely crazy eyes shining at me right now.


​“I think I'm done talking now,” Brandon says right before he lunges.


​Fuck. I barely make it out of the way as I twist. I dash to the shelves hoping to grab something to use as a weapon before he gets to me. Damn me for not already being armed. How have I not learned my lesson yet? My hand closes on a short metal pipe as I feel him behind me. I turn and swing.


​“Fuck,” I cry out. My turn saved me from getting stabbed straight on but the blade still catches me running along my side.


​The following moments are a confusing blur of a scuffle as I try to deflect his knife while also trying to attack him with the pipe in my hand. I get a couple more cuts though they feel like nothing compared to the burning wound on my side. The pain and the effort of the struggle has by body blooming in sweat.


​Brandon is viscous if unskilled as he keeps coming after me telling me to 'hold still' and 'just die already'. This is different than fighting a zombie, they're slower, more predictable. Brandon is anything but predictable. I land a truly solid hit to his wrist, causing him to drop his knife. He bellows in pain, his opposite hand wrapping around his shattered wrist. Not wasting an opportunity I swing again, this time aiming for his head.


​He goes down, and he goes down hard, not moving at all. I hit him like I'd hit a zombie. Though, with a zombie I'd hit again till I was sure it was down. Instead I wait to see if he moves. When minutes pass without movement the adrenaline starts to fade and I start to crash, hard. The pipe drops out of my trembling hands as I stumble to the door.


​My hands are slick and slip off the lock a couple of times before I manage to unlock the door and open it. I make it all of two steps out before I drop to my knees. Fuck, I'll be feeling that later. Right now, though? Yeah, that's all about the burning in my side. I look down to see my side soaked in blood. That's not good. My hand clamps down on my side. Applying much needed pressure. Oh boy, does that fucking hurt. My vision blacks out for a second. I need to get up. I know I need to get up, find something to stop the bleeding.


Chapter Twenty


​“There you are. I've been looking for you everywhere.”


​I look up see Tank walking towards me.


​“Ah, shit,” his walk becomes a run ending with him kneeling beside me. He moves my hand away from my side to take a look and then quickly puts it back in place, pressing down to help me apply pressure. “Looks like you need a doc,” he tells me in a calm voice. I wonder if he was always naturally calm in a crisis or he learned it in the Army? “And you need to tell me who did this.”


​“Brandon.”


​“Of course, you were right about him. Alright, let's get up.” Tank takes to his feet and goes to help me up but I shake him off and use the hand not pressed to my side to point to the door of the utility room.


​Tank's through that door within seconds. He doesn't stay in there long before he's back out. I don't fight him this time as he helps me to my feet. My already suffering equilibrium is thrown off when he moves me into a bridal carry. My free arm wraps around his neck to help hold me steady.


​“So, bad news little demon, he's still alive,” Tank informs me.


​“Should we..just..leave him there?,” I manage to pant out.


​“I tied him up and I'll send Frank just as soon as I get you to the Doc.”


​Tank's strides are quick as he tries to get me to help quickly. Each of those strides jostle me and send spikes of pain through me. What the hell? I'm pretty sure I've actually been hurt worse than this a few times so why is this so freaking painful?


​Tank takes me to Doc Tim's office which is empty. “Shit,” He mutters before stepping back out into the hall with me still in hand. He barks out a short, sharp, and very loud, “Hey.”  Within moments two people appear from around the corner. “Get Doc Tim now,” he orders them.


​“Um, Frank like arrested him or something,” One of the says.


​“I don't care, get me a doctor now.” Fully expecting to be obeyed, Tank turns back into the nurse's office. I'm placed down on the cot with orders to keep applying pressure. There's rustling as Tank moves around the office. He's swiftly back beside me ripping open some packages. My hand is moved out of the way, my shirt lifted up so that he can place some bandage or other directly to my wound. He presses down on that bandage much harder than I'd been pressing. “Ow, sadist.”


​“Oh, suck it up, you big baby. It's just a flesh would.”


​“Oh really? Then why are you yelling at people to get a doctor?” I snark at him, though the effect of my snark is lost to the sputter pain has put in my voice.


​“Oh, I just like ordering people around. Plus, I need the Doc to make sure you don't scar too bad for when I Buffalo Bill you,” He grins down at me as he pulls the now soaked bandage away from my side and places another in it's place.


​“I thought you said you weren't going to Buffalo Bill me?”


​His answer is lost as other voices sound from the doorway. “Who the fuck is Buffalo Billing?” That'd be Franks voice.


​“Jesus, Sadie.” Theo.


​“What's the situation?” That'd be Doc Tim.


​“Three decent cuts that I've noticed so far, lots of nicks. The ones on her arms aren't too bad. The one on her side is a little more serious,” Tank relates to the Doctor.


​I'd honestly forgotten about the cuts on my arms, they just aren't enough to register at the moment.


​“Let me see,” Doc Tim says as he moves to my side, pulling on blue gloves. He pulls the bandage away to get a look then pushes it back into place. “The bleeding?”


​“Slowing down but she'd lost a good bit before I found her,” Tank answers.


​Doc Tim disappears from my eye site. I can hear him open doors and grabbing things. He comes back with a freaking IV. “What the hell?” I manage to ask.


​“Just some saline to help replace your fluids,” Tim says in a calm and competent tone.


​“I hate needles,” I complain.


​“Then quit needing them,” Frank growls from the door.


​I manage to find the strength to lift an arm and flip him the bird. A snort slips from him. Tim hangs the saline bag from a hook on the wall. Well, that's conveniently placed. With deft hands an alcohol swap swipes over my inner elbow and moments later a needle has been inserted. “Ow,” I can't help but whine at the pinch.


​Running foot steps come from the hallway. “Frank,” A voice I don't know calls out. “There's an emergency?” Why the fuck was that a question. Is it an emergency or not?


​“Fuck, another one?” He growls.


​“Someone attacked Brandon and tied him up in the utility room. He's on his way to Dr. Connors right now,” faceless guy tells Frank.


​“Fuck,” I curse.


​Tank moves to the door and a very pissed off “You let him go?” emerges as a roar from him.


​I don't really pick up the rest of the conversation as Tim has started poking around at my wound. “Geez, Tim. That fucking hurts.”


​“I know. Good news, it doesn't seem to have penetrated into your abdominal cavity. This is all skin and muscle damage,” Tim tells me in his competent doctor's voice. Regular Tim- kind of awkward. Doctor Tim- competent as hell.


​“You mean it really is just a flesh would?” I ask in disbelief.


​“I wouldn't go that far. It's going to need stitches. A lot of stitches.”


​“Just great.”


​“And I don't have any numbing shots.”


​“Can't you just super glue it together?” I ask not really even joking.


​“Sadie, it's about six inches long.”


​“Shit, is that why it hurts so fucking bad.”


​“Yeah, I'd say so. I might not have any topical but I do have some painkillers,” Tim offers.


​“Yeah,” I dejectedly agree to them.


​Tim helps lift me up just enough to swallow two pills with the help of a bottle of water.


​“Hey, Sadie.” Theo comes over beside me, pulling over a chair and making sure he's not in Tim's way.


​“Hey, dude. Come here often?” I ask him, voice hoarse, trying to lighten the mood.


​“Not so much, but you sure seem to.”


​“Yeah, I'm lucky that way. Did the other's leave?”


​“Yeah. Frank and Tank both seem to be on the war path. They asked me to stay with you. Not that I wasn't already going to. I know you're usually like, super chick, but it's totally okay if you need to squeeze my hand,” Theo offers me.


​“I think, just this once, I'm going to accept that offer,” I tell him. “Oh, shit.” My hand flies to Theo's gripping it tight. I glance down to see that Doc Tim has started. “A little warning next time.”


​“Sorry,” he tells me without looking up. “Though, you should really work on there not being a next time.”


​“And you should get a hair cut,” I snipe back.


​“What's wrong with my hair?” He glances up at me in confusion.


​“Can you even see what you're doing with it in your eyes? Would you like a hair band?”


​“I can see just fine, thank you very much. Do you want me to stop? Strike that question, of course you do. Theo, talk to her. Distract her.”


​“I can do that. What's your favorite movie, Sadie?”


​“Don't really have one.”


​“You know, I don't think I do either, but I have a favorite genre. I love sci-fi movies, especially space or aliens. Love me some Ripley.”


​“Don't even have a favorite genre. I do have can always watch comfort movies. Ah, shit.” My hand squeezes tight around Theo's as Doc hits a particularly sensitive area. My whole side is just a giant flare of pain with each stitch adding to the inferno. Come on Sadie, you've literally stitched yourself up before, this isn't any worse than that. Yeah, right.


​“What are some of those movies?” Theo brings my focus back to him.


​“Red, both of them. Stardust. Nightmare before Christmas.”


​“Ah, yeah, a classic,” Theo says with appreciation.


​“Beetlejuice. Doom.”


​“Oh, really?”


​“Yeah. Never played the video game so don't know how it compares but could always watch some Doom. Oh, Serenity.”


​“Hell, yeah. Some Nathan Fillion Firefly is always good,” Theo agrees.


​“Before all this shit, the first Resident Evil would have been on the list.”


​“Yeah, zombie movies don't quite hit the same now, do they?”


​“What about you Doc?”


​“Hum?” Doc Time says absentmindedly, totally focused on what he's doing.


​“Favorite movie, or genre?”


​“Ah, just about anything Studio Ghibli.”


​“You know, I don't think that surprises me. Studio Ghibli is good,” I tell him.


​“Okay, how about this? Would you rather watch a brand new TV series or one you've seen a hundred times?” Theo asks.


​“The one I've seen a hundred times, obviously. Give me some Mike Rowe and Dirty Jobs any day.”


​“Ah, a fan of a working man, are you? I can get dirty with the best of them,” Theo jokes while wiggling his eyebrows, surprising a small giggle followed by a larger pained moan. Note to self- don't laugh while getting stitches without any sedation.


​“Music?” Theo asks.


​“Mostly rock. New and old. Really not a fan of pop or stadium country.”


​“Me? I can listen to just about anything, though I love me some 80's hair bands.”


​Theo continues to try and keep me distracted for the long minutes it takes Tim to stitch me up. By the time it's done we talked about everything from first dates, to dream vacations, and most embarrassing moments. Hopefully the last doesn't leave this room.


​“Okay, Sadie. That parts over,” Tim informs me.


​“Oh, thank god.”


​Tim wipes me down, being careful of the fresh stitches, and places a bandage over top, taping it down. “Can probably leave off the bandage after 24 hours but we'll just keep an eye on it.”


​I realize I'm still holding Theo's hand so I release it with a 'thanks'.


​“No problem. You can hold my hand anytime,” Theo tells me with obvious double entendre.


​“Yeah, don't hold your breath.” I give his shoulder a light shove.


Chapter Twenty-One


​I wake with a start, surprised I fell asleep in the first place. I'm still on the cot in Tim's office. The lights have been turned down though there's still enough to realize that Tank has replaced Theo in the chair pulled up beside me.


​“Hey, little demon. How you feeling?”


​“Sore. How long have I been out?” I ask him.


​“Not too long, just a couple of hours.”


​“What happened?”


​Tank leans forward in his chair, elbows on knees. “The little fucker is gone. Ditched the guy who was helping him to the other Doctor. Searched the place top to bottom but he snuck out. Found a hole in the fence where he probably slipped out. It's been fixed. Found his stash in the utility room.”


​“Yeah, looked like he had several more of the vaccine shots ready to go.”


​“Why the hell'd you go searching alone?” Tank asks with no little frustration.


​“It was just a hunch. Besides, I've gotten used to doing things on my own.”


​“Yeah, well next time don't wander off on your own when investigating a serial killer.”


​“Doesn't it take more than two kills to make a serial killer?” I ask him. His glare is clear even in the low light. “No, really. When does it go from killer to serial killer? Or spree killer?”


​“Typically at least three with a set MO. Spread out over time. I've no doubt that was, is, where he's heading.”


​“I'd have to agree with you. So, he's just out there?”


​“For now,” Tank says, his voice darker than I've ever heard before.


​“You're not planning on hunting him down, are you?”


​“He hurt you, Sadie. He's also killed. No doubt he will again.”


​“Can't you just let the zombie's handle it?”


​“You really think he can't out smart a zombie?”


​“Fuck. I just...” I was okay when I thought I might have killed him defending myself, so why do I have an issue now.


​“It's 'cause of how young he is, right? But, Sadie, he might be young but he's no kid. I wouldn't be surprised if he had the typical hallmarks. Animals, arson.”


​I sigh as I admit, “He did mention neighborhood animals when he went on his villain monologue.”


​“Fuck, he monologued? See, clearly a bad guy.”


​“I know, okay. I just...i have a hard time with it being in cold blood. Self defense is one thing, but cold blooded?”


​“Fine. I'll hold off for now. But if I catch wind he's been at it again? Just one suspicious body? I will go hunting,” Tank concedes. “Fuck, why'd I have to choose a freaking bleeding heart to stalk?”


​“It's not too late to stalk someone else. In fact, I encourage it. Less chance of you Buffalo Billing me.”


​“Nah, it's too late. I've already sunk to much time into you. Plus, no point Buffalo Billing you with that giant hole in your side,” Tank jokes with me, picking up my hand and toying with it between the two of his. At least I hope he's just joking around.


​“The fuck? Buffalo Billing? Like Silence of the Lambs? What the fuck?” Comes from the doorway.


​“Oh, hi, Miguel,” I greet him with a little hand wave.


​“Well, hello, lover boy. Nice to see you, too.” Tank's tone is none too friendly. I don't think it's just because of what just got said.


​“What's up, Miguel?” I ask him.


​“What's up is I just found out you were attacked, that it was Brandon and he's on the run. Then  I come to check on you and you guys are talking about Tank fucking skinning you and making a fucking suit.” Miguel's face has moved to loud and irate.


​“The skin thing is clearly just an inside joke,” Tank explains with the kind of tone you'd use for a small child. “And the attack was hours ago but you just now heard about it and are checking on her?”


​Miguel fidgets with discomfort. What the heck was he up to?


​“I was, ah, I was with Brittany,” Miguel's tone is full of embarrassment.


​“Wait, as in your wife, Brittany?”


​“Ex, and yes. But not like with her. She was genuinely freaked out and clinging to me.”


​“What could she have been freaked out about?” I am all over confused.


​“Not just her. Word spread that Janice and David were probably murdered. It was all anyone could talk about at breakfast. Lot's of accusations being thrown around. Then when they arrested Doc Tim? Only then for them to let him go and start searching for Brandon. A lot of confused, angry people. I knew there was an attack but I didn't know it was you, Sadie, until I was finally able to foist Brittany off on someone else and talk to that Isiah guy.”


​“So, Brittany is fine now?” I ask him.


​“The fuck if I know. What the fuck happened to you Sadie?” All embarrassment over the whole Brittany situation is gone and he's now just impatient to know what's going on.


​“What happened is she went off on her own investigating a serial killer,” Tank informs him way too smugly for my liking as he leans back in his chair arms crossed. Why the fuck is he all smug now?


​“I thought we determined he isn't a serial killer yet?” I can't help but ask.


​“What the fuck does that matter?” Miguel demands. He moves to the desk and turns the lantern up higher, lighting up the room. “Why the hell would you go off investigating a single murder on your own?”


​Ah, that'd be why Tank is smug. He knew Miguel would also be upset at that, so now he thinks they can team up on me.


​“I already get that I could have made different decisions so as not to have ended up like this,” I huff.


​“What is this anyway?”


​It's Tank that answers, using his hands to wave at me. “Couple of cuts an her arms, those didn't need stitches. A hell of a gash on her side. Doc says it was about 30 stitches.”


​“Holy shit. 30 stitches? And it was Brandon?”


​I wish I was sitting up for this conversation. I don't like laying down while they're sitting and standing. Wonder if I can talk them into helping me sit up? With their current demeanor's? Probably not. “Yeah. I found his hiding place for the needles. He found me finding it. A fight followed. He had a big knife, I had a pipe. So, I got cut and he got hit in the head. Though, apparently, I didn't hit him all that hard if he was able to get up and sneak out of here with no problem.”


​“Geez, Sadie. And to think my parents wanted me to marry you because they thought you were a quiet, gentle girl who wouldn't cause drama,” Miguel tells me with a head shake.


​“Ha, Sadie quiet and gentle?” Tank laughs.


​The hell? “I think I might be offended,” I mutter though it doesn't sound like the other two hear me. “You're parents seriously wanted us together?” Surprise is heavy in my voice.


​“You never caught on to that?”


​“No. They never said anything like that to me. I mean they'd talk to me about you but it just seemed like the normal talk of proud parents.” Looking back it still seems like normal talk of very proud parents. Maybe I'm just bad on picking up on that sort of stuff?


​“Oh, no. It ramped up real hard when I got engaged. Though, they did back off after the wedding itself.”


​“That's so weird to think of.”


​“I do think part of it was wanting me to move back closer to them. If I married the neighbor girl surely I'd move closer to them.”


​“Now see that makes since. Plus they just really didn't like Brittany.” Yeah, that seems more likely than them actually thinking I'd be perfect for their kid.


​Things get quiet after that, us lost in our memories. After a while I can't stand us all sitting being quiet so I tell them to go be useful and do something.


<<<<<<<>>>>>>>


​“My legs work fine,” I bitch at Tank as he merrily walks along beside me.


​“Just making sure you don't pass out,” He says happily as I waddle my way back to Doc Tim's office. My legs may be working fine but I'm still hobbling along as moving too fast hurts my side.


​Making it back to the office, it's a good thing I've just sat down as Tanks words would have had me dropping to my ass. “So, just to be clear. You know that once you're healed up enough and we've got some privacy I'm going to fuck you're brains out, right?”


​Pure shock as I try to decide if I heard him right. “What? I don't, I don't think I heard you correctly.”


​“Oh, no, you heard me right,” He informs me with a smug grin and a chuck to my chin. “I told you I'd planned on checking on you soon. What I really meant was I'd planned on hunting you down and getting nice and cozy for the coming winter.”


​“I don't, that...”


​“Figured I'd lay it all out there right now as you've got some others sniffing after you. Lover boy, and those other guys you hang out with. Fucking hipster Koda. Anyway. You wrap your head around that. We've got a couple weeks before I'm okay risking getting you out of here.”


​I'm still a sputtering shocked mess as he kisses my head and leaves the room, whistling a lively tune as he goes. What the hell just happened? That came out of nowhere, right? Like where was the lead up. Okay, okay. So the guy did say he'd been keeping an eye on me, aka stalking. But, I really did think it was just keeping an eye on the woman out on her own, not that he liked me. I'm so confused. Also, I don't have a pack of guys sniffing around me. James will hit on anything that moves, Chase is gay, and Theo is just a flirt. Miguel, well, okay. So, Miguel does seem actually interested. But Fucking Koda? He's just a not too fond memory.


​ Damn. I guess it'll be an interesting few weeks.


<<<<<<<>>>>>>>



OceanofPDF.com