Cover
        

    
    
        

            
        
    

OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher














 




The Ghost Toucher


By Gerald Rice


Smashwords Edition


Copyright 2010 Gerald Rice



OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












Smashwords Edition, License
Notes

This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This ebook
may not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like
to share this book with another person, please purchase an
additional copy for each recipient. If you’re reading this book and
did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only,
then please return to Smashwords.com and purchase your own copy.
Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.









OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












The Ghost Toucher copyright © 2010, first
published by Severed Press


The Ghost Toucher written by Gerald Rice. All
rights reserved.


This book is a work of fiction. Any
resemblance to persons, places or events is purely coincidental and
unintended. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be
reproduced or transmitted by any means, electronic, mechanical or
written, without express permission from the author.


For more information about the author, please
visit his website: www.feelmyghost.webs.com.



OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












 



 



What’s a stout
roost?


 



 



 



 “It is a shame that the dead could be treated so
disrespectfully like that. You people should be shamed that you
could put a show on like that. I’ve never seen something so
shameful in all my life.”


These kinds of phone calls were typical. Old
men and old women who complained because they needed to talk to
someone to somehow still be viable to society. Kelly Greene took
these calls everyday and logged them in the AS400 system along with
the caller’s demographic information. No promises were made that
the show would reflect their complaints, no policies were changed
and no callers received a call back. He was simply a professional
apologist.


“I understand you have a complaint with our
programming, Ms. Moore,” he said. “The Network strives to provide
quality programming for all our viewers and we’re sorry to hear
we’re not meeting your needs. Ms. Moore, may I ask what your date
of birth is?”


“Birthdate? Why do you need my
birthdate?”


“To be able to better track our viewing
audience.”


“I don’t need you tracking me. Just get that
terrible show off the air!”


She hung up. The complaints rolled off him.
He’d been taking them long enough to recognize the same voices.
Bertha Hodges today would be Edna Hopkins tomorrow. Edward Coolidge
had the same slurry cadence as Donald Bloom. Emma Titwidge’s lisp
was just like Carey Coor’s lisp. George Bauman liked to yell and
not let Kelly get a word in edgewise just like Bill Love. Every
single one of them was a closeted fan. Couldn’t keep their eyes off
the show and couldn’t admit to themselves they liked it so they
called and made complaints as a means of penance.


Kelly let the next call ring until it went
to his voicemail. He sat back in his chair with his fingers laced
behind his head. His eyes wandered of their own accord to the
bottom drawer beneath the desk of his tiny cubicle. He wasn’t brave
enough to look in there. No. That drawer only came open once or
twice a year and he didn’t have the heart. Kelly was glad to have
gotten them out of the house; he had no idea what he would have
done if he’d had to look at them every single day.


His phone rang again. He glanced at the
caller ID and saw it was an internal number. Kelly picked up.


“Hello?”


“Kelly Greene?”


“Yes.”


“Artie Brimmer needs to see you upstairs.”
Kelly only knew the name. Brimmer worked in marketing or something
like that. “It’s the thirty-third floor. Do you know how to get to
his office?”


“I’ll find it. Be right up.”


“You’ll need to type in pass code forty
ninety-eight when you get off the elevator.”


“Okay. Thanks.”


Kelly logged out of his phone and made his
way through the maze of gray cubicles to the elevator. There were a
bunch of new faces around here lately. It was fall again. Must be
intern season. He thumbed the ‘Up’ button and the doors popped
open.


The thirty-third floor was completely
different than his. Everything above thirty was executive level. He
stepped off the elevator into an ovular-shaped waiting area. There
was a glass wall with a fish tank built into it separating him from
the floor proper. Kelly slid his fingers across a small black
leather couch in the middle of the room as he walked to the big oak
door in the middle of the wall. There was a security access panel
with a phone next to it.


Kelly fingered the pass code and the access
panel beeped, the little light at the side changing to Greene from
red. He pulled the handle and stepped inside a hallway that ran the
length of the waiting area. He turned to the right and walked into
a wide open area filled with much larger cubicles. There was a man
in one of them, in a suit, reclining in a chair much nicer than
Kelly’s, wearing a headset that was much fancier as well. He passed
through this area and another that was just like it before
wandering through a kitchenette area and realizing he was lost.


“Excuse me,” he said to a brunette pouring
creamer into a cup of coffee. She looked up. “I’m trying to find
Artie Brimmer’s office? Could you point me in the right
direction?”


She dropped a stir-stick into her coffee and
said, “I’d love to, but I don’t speak any English,” and walked out
of the kitchenette. He wandered out after her and became lost
again. He wound up at another set of elevators, but was unsure if
this was the same place he’d come from.


Kelly turned to his left and spotted an
office down from a long row of cubicles. He walked over to it and
found a column of closed offices. He followed them until he came to
an open one with ‘Arthur Brimmer’ on the nametag on the door.


“Can I help you?” a middle aged woman with
her back to him said.


“Uh, I’m here to see Artie Brimmer?”


“Kelly Greene?” she said without turning
around.


“Yes.”


“Oh. You don’t look like you sound. Go on
in. They’re waiting.”


Kelly stepped inside the office. The first
thing he noticed were the open windows with a view of a wooded area
with some moderately-sized houses mixed in. Brimmer’s office was
bare save for a dozen or so pictures on his desk and the wooden
shelf built into the wall behind him.


Artie Brimmer was a balding, late thirties
man with a gut, love handles and a hearing-aide in one ear. They
shook hands and Kelly had to suppress the urge to wipe his palm on
his pants leg. A tall, pale man sat in one of the two chairs in
front of his desk by the window. He hard dark blond hair and the
kind of face that could be mistaken for anything between thirty and
sixty. Brimmer didn’t introduce him.


“Please have a seat so we can begin.”


Kelly sat down in the open chair, wondering
exactly what they were supposed to be starting. Brimmer took a
remote out of his desk and turned around, aiming it at the
television in the corner. The television came on and he fingered
another button that tinted the windows.


 



Stout put the camera up to eye level. He
pushed the front door open and stepped in. It was cold. Much colder
than outside. He pulled the flashlight out of his coat pocket,
wishing his helmet cam hadn’t been broken the last time out.


It had taken a while to find the pendant,
but he’d found it down at an auction in Orlando. He wore it on a
necklace and if everything ran smoothly tonight it would serve him
well. Old Man Turner had been an nth degree bastard in life and had
kept on in death. He’d driven four wives to their graves, each one
inheriting a diamond pendant from the wife before. Turner had given
it to his fifth, a pretty young thing from Boise, and right after
giving birth to their daughter she ran away to Florida. Regardless
of all his money and influence, by the time he’d found her he was
on his deathbed. When he kicked they said he’d been clutching a
picture of her in his craggy old hands.


Over the last eight decades the house had
changed owners at least two dozen times until white flight and
urban decay had left it empty and beat up. There were a couple of
local legends about kids going in to vandalize the house who had
been somehow ‘violated’, but Stout figured those tales were either
fake or some dumb kid had been lured there by somebody with a head
full of bad ideas and a lot of lube. Still, there were plenty of
documented cases reporting a variety of disturbances ranging from
someone in the house throwing furniture around to screaming and
even an old man sitting on the front steps just staring at
passers-by.


He might have dismissed the old man on the
porch bit if it hadn’t been for how they described his appearance.
‘Gussied up’ was the phrase a lot of them used, weird when you
thought about how people normally spoke. But he’d found in many
cases that places with true hauntings tended to influence people’s
speech or behavior in the neighboring area in some way.


A set of rickety stairs were directly ahead.
Stout went over to the railing and stomped on the first one. It
didn’t collapse.


“As always, it’s a good idea to check the
steps,” he said in a loud whisper. “The amateurs like to walk up
either side, but that gives you a false sense of security if you’re
being chased out because you’re just going to run for it. I’d
rather break my leg going in than coming out. You don’t want to get
munged by a ghost.”


It had happened to him on his first time.
He’d gotten the skinny woman going until she was in a murderous
rage. Of course ghosts couldn’t kill, but piss one off and that
won’t stop them from trying. The skinny woman had charged him and
he had turned to run, not realizing she’d leaked sploot all over
the floor and fell flat on his face. Ghosts tended to leak in
highly charged emotional states. The skinny woman had wrapped those
long fingers around his neck and shook him. That part wasn’t so
bad, but then her hands had passed through his flesh, touching
something inside of him. The effect immediately made him evacuate
from every hole in his body. He even had ear wax running out of his
ears and the gunk that comes out of your eyes while you sleep.
Stout would have loved to have captured the experience on camera,
but he’d broken his when the skinny woman attacked him. He had no
intention of it happening again and had a doodle of her tattooed on
his arm to mark the experience.


Stout stomped his way up the stairs and
found all but one to be sturdy. When he reached the landing he
swung the flashlight around to the other half of the stairs. He saw
the top half of a bedroom door from where he stood and cast his
light left and right, checking the walls. He took a heavy step up
the second flight and saw something from the corner of his eye.


Old Man Turner looked up at him from the
foot of the stairs. Stout turned, stepping back to get a better
view when the apparition appeared about a foot away from him. He
jumped into the wall, the flashlight and camera dancing in his
hands. He wasn’t afraid of ghosts anymore, but they surprised him
from time to time.


“Why did you think you could leave me?” the
dead man said. Stout aimed the flashlight at the ghost staring up
at him. He was at least six inches taller, but to be fair about a
third Old Man Turner’s legs was in the landing.


The light passed through him, giving him an
ethereal light blue glow around the edges. The camera would only
catch it as bright points of light reflecting off nothing so it
took a little more to catch the experience on film. That’s where
the piss-spray came in.


He’d come up with it himself. Part holy
water, part animal urine, part garlic. It had some other stuff in
it too; he didn’t make it the same every time, but it always
worked. Maybe they were offended by holy water, maybe it was the
pee smell or maybe they were allergic to garlic. But whatever it
was almost always got some kind of a rise out of them. Stout put
the flashlight between his teeth and fished out the spray bottle.
He gave the air a few spritzes.


Scattered pieces of furniture and wood
levitated off the floor. An immediate reaction. That was bad. Old
Man Turner’s face twisted into a ball of rage and became an empty
hole as he screamed. Stout threw himself up the stairs seconds
before something crashed into the window behind him.


He rammed his shoulder into a door, the
flashlight left somewhere in the hall. He crouched by a wall,
flicking on the camera’s night vision and turning it on
himself.


“That noise you’re hearing is Old Man Turner
approaching and he’s pissed because of this.” He held the pendant
in front of the camera and dropped it. “I’ll be lucky to get out of
here alive.” He always liked to say things like that. It was a
one-in-one-hundred chance for a ghost to kill anyone and he’d been
doing it long enough to be smarter than most.


The floorboards groaned. Despite being dead
ghosts didn’t have much on the side of preternatural senses and you
could surprise them. He wished there was a camera that could
capture the surprised look on their faces when he sprang out of
nowhere on them. Classic.


Stout peaked out into the hall and stared at
a giant eye that filled the narrow doorway, staring back at him. He
tried to leap out of the way, but the door flew open and a giant
cold hand wrapped around his head. His arms and legs were free but
something was holding his torso in place. The hand turned his head
to the left, then the right, then slowly to the left again. Turner
was a lot stronger than most.


But Stout had a plan. Even the strongest
ghosts had weaknesses. He snatched the necklace off and tossed it
onto the floor. The hand and whatever else that was holding him
went slack and he felt Old Man Turner pass him.


“Alice. Alice. My sweet, sweet Alice,” he
heard the old man say.


Stout snatched away the pendant, on a string
of fishing line tied to his belt loop and jumped out of the room,
running back the way he’d come. Old Man Turner roared, the house
vibrating as furniture danced and banged and scraped across the
floor. He took the stairs by threes as something big hammered its
way down behind him. The rail fell over onto the stairs, scraping
his back as he ran off. Stout made a beeline for the front door
when it slammed in his face.


But that’s where proper preparation came in
hand. Before he’d turned the camera on he’d gone into the house and
loosened the hinges. It was a big oak door and took some tugging,
but the door was already loose from disrepair and he stepped back
as it fell.


The radiator on the wall in front of him
rattled before ripping free and hurling itself at his head. Stout
ducked and it exploded into the wall by the stairs. He turned the
camera on himself and turned around.


 



“I should be dead after that.” The face on
the screen looked nervous. The image blurred a moment as the view
spun from the man to the hole where a wall used to be. The camera
showed a wider view of the porch as he backed out of the house. The
front door creaked and pushed itself off the floor to shut in front
of the camera’s view and then he went down the stairs.


The camera view swiveled
back on him and he swiped his hand down his face bathed in orangish
street light before glancing left and right. A roar came from
inside the house and the view spun on the house again as
something knocked heavy
sounding objects around in the abandoned residence. An armoire
rocketed through the front door and smashed into an old red Beetle
parked at the curb. The picture blurred presumably as the man began
running, laughing all the way before the screen turned to
snow.


“And that is the last anyone has heard from
Stout Roost.” Artie Brimmer thumbed the off button on the remote
and the screen went black. He paced in a circle before settling
down in his plush leather captain’s chair, his expensive gray suit
stayed immaculate on his chubby body as if it were a second
skin.


Kelly Greene glanced over for the dozenth
time at the man seated next to him. Kelly couldn’t look into his
wild eyes when he had held his hand out for a shake. The man didn’t
take his hand but stared at him.


Kelly didn’t like being kept in the dark. It
made him uncomfortable to be semi-involved. That’s why he never
gambled. Too much chance involved for him to feel he had any real
sense of control.


Why was he even here? He
was in customer service. He rarely watched television and had only
the briefest awareness of The
Ghost Toucher show other
than the irate callers who yelled at him about it. The name of it
alone told him it wasn’t a show for him. Watching the unedited tape
a moment ago had solidified his assumption as a good one. A book
correctly judged by its cover. And what a bad idea to antagonize
a ghost.


“Kelly, I’m sure you’d like to know why
you’re here. It won’t make sense, but it should be enough that it’s
what the Board wants. Stout Roost, as you know, has single-handedly
reinvigorated the Network. He’s captured thirty-nine percent of the
male sixteen to thirty-four audience and his numbers in all other
demographics are better than average.”


Kelly began clenching his
jaw, still wondering what this had to do with him.
ChíChé had fifty percent
of the same demographic and that was a show he could
watch.


“Now, it’s true, his
numbers have begun to slide but in a pitch-meeting Stout came up
with an idea. Revolutionary, bold, Emmy-getting—his words, not mine. But he wouldn’t
tell anyone what the idea was. We hadn’t heard from him for two
months before this tape showed up on my desk last week. I mean
literally showed up. I turned my back a moment and there it was
when I turned back around. It had his signature on a patch of duct
tape—well here it is, you see it—just like always, but it hadn’t
come in a package and when I called the mailroom Paul said it
hadn’t come through him. And I believe him; Paul’s a big fan of the
show and he makes a special trip to put this in my hands when the
courier comes.


“I’m sorry; I think I got a little
side-tracked. Just thought that was a little amazing, was all. The
Board decided to hire a detective a month ago, but after a week our
deposit was returned and he stopped answering his phone.” He looked
at Kelly. “Mr. Israel here—”


“Just Israel.”


“—uh, right. Israel is a
‘special’ detective.” Brimmer wiggled both his indexes and middle
fingers with the word ‘special’. “Considering the kind of work
Stout was doing the Board thought perhaps a different kind of
detective work needed to be conducted.”


“I can pull the recorded calls for—”


“No-no,” Brimmer
interrupted. “Nothing like that, Kelly. But that’s not bad
thinking. But what we do
need...” He turned left and right in his chair,
chewing his lower lip a moment. “There is a second issue to be
considered and we need a bottom line guy to kind of… steer things
along. The Board was forced to consider the possibility Stout met
with some sort of mis…adventure. While his on camera work has been
a windfall for the network his personal life has fallen more into a
category that could best be described as a…
‘liability’.”


With that last word Brimmer wiggled both
indexes and middle fingers again. Kelly’s interest was piqued. He
hadn’t been in accounts receivable in almost three years. Why
wouldn’t they want Liz Hooper? She was still there. He glanced at
the folder on the desk that no doubt held information they would
need in finding Roost. Who named themselves after a male
chicken?


“Roost.” Israel locked eyes with him a
moment before facing forward.


What? He hadn’t spoken anything aloud, had
he? Kelly shook his head.


“In all the various locations Stout has shot
in across the country and abroad he has also… become familiar… with
many of the local women.”


“How many and what do you want us to do
about it?” Israel said.


“We suspect as many as fourteen, maybe even
more.”


Kelly knew he was slow in catching on.


“I’m sorry? Fourteen what?”


“Children.” Brimmer turned to Israel. “And
there really isn’t anything for you to ‘do’ about it. The Board has
come up with an acceptable figure for the cost and duration of this
investigation, balanced against what the Network would have to pay
each of these children out of what we would owe Stout. Now if he’s
declared dead there is an indemnity clause, but of course we don’t
want to rely on that. The amount we would owe these children would
be… considerable. It would be much better for us long term if he
were found alive.”


“So find him, but only if it costs less than
a certain amount?”


Brimmer stared at him, but didn’t
answer.


“I don’t know much about detective work, but
it can’t be all that expensive.” Kelly looked away to Israel. “No
offense, but not even a ‘special’ detective can be that
expensive.”


“Oh, I don’t take my payment in cash.”


“Okay, so what are we talking about,
expenses? Do we need to grease some palms here?”


“Well Israel here is the expert. The Board
has its figure.” Brimmer pulled out a pen, scribbled something on a
post-it and slid it over. Kelly gave a mental whistle. “Don’t go
over that.”


“And how do we pay for all this?”


Brimmer slid open a drawer in his desk and
pulled out a white envelope the size of a credit card and handed it
over. There was a credit card inside.


“Use it where you have to, the PIN number’s
in there too in case you need it. All expenses will be reviewed, of
course, and you know the standard meal and hotel amounts.”


Brimmer pushed over the file to Israel who
immediately handed it over to Kelly. Kelly began leafing through
the pictures and documents, committing the faces to memory from the
former and skimming the latter. Friends and family, people who were
opposed to the show, including descendants of some of the ‘ghosts’
had some sort of file in here. Pictures of the women he had
allegedly fathered children with were in here.


“There’s a Parke Car waiting for you
outside,” Brimmer said.


“Now? You mean go now? I haven’t had
time—”


“I think I’ve explained how important this
is to the Board and the Network. Right now I need to know if you’re
in or go back to the Board and explain how I need more time because
we have to pick someone else.”


Kelly got the picture.


“I’m in.”


 



On their way to the elevator Kelly had
trouble keeping up with Israel. He wasn’t walking very fast, but he
was much taller and took long strides, easily putting distance
between them as Kelly struggled to not drop the thick folder.


He bumped into someone and the whole thing
fell from his hands, papers fanning out across the floor.


“Sorry,” he said without looking up. Kelly
knelt and began scooping the papers into a sloppy pile. He grabbed
a thick rubber band on the floor and after he had all the papers in
he stretched it over the folder to keep the papers secure. He was
about to stand when he spotted an errant sheet that had gone in a
different direction than the others.


The heel of a black pump ground into the
paper. Kelly looked at the shoe and the foot that was in it, then
up a slender calf. A woman stood before him in a white blouse and
knee-length dark grey skirt pulled taut by her parted feet. She had
her hands on her ample hips, glowering down at him with large brown
eyes. Her olive face was framed by long dark, curly hair, her red
lips fixed into a grim line.


“I’m LaGina,” she said.


Kelly stammered something unintelligible and
tore the paper from underneath her heel. He felt like he’d just
seen a ghost. He crammed the paper into the folder, afraid to make
eye contact with the woman, but not being able to take his eyes off
her.


Give her a different nose and slightly
shorter hair and she looked just like Martha.


Kelly stumbled his way around and into
cubicles catching up with Israel just as he got to the elevator.
The taller man looked down at him, making a face as if he were
about to say something and forgot. The elevator dinged and the
doors slid open. They got on.


 



LaGina’s work had only begun. So far the
Network’s attorneys had blocked her paternity suit against Stout.
She wouldn’t be able to join the class action until she had proven
paternity and she couldn’t prove paternity because Stout had
dropped off the face of the planet. They were hiding him, but
where?


She looked at the set of keys she’d swiped
off the schmuck she’d bumped into. Mel had pointed him out after
they’d gone into Artie Brimmer’s office. If this guy was going to
find Stout she’d keep tabs on him and be there when he did. In the
meantime she had to find out as much as possible about him.



OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher
















 



Crazy old lady, pt
1


 



 



 



 



 



 



Artie opened the drawer and took out his
talking cloth and planchette. He unrolled the cloth, revealing
faded letters and numbers stenciled across it. The planchette was
new, with a track wheel beneath it like a computer mouse would
have. He placed his fingers upon it and thought of her.


Artie couldn’t help himself, he’d fallen in
love. When the SVPs had asked him to summon someone from the other
side he’d given them Israel, but she’d caught his eye while he was
diddling around.


She was an angel, a
goddess. She couldn’t
come through the same way Israel had or he would have brought her
through a week ago when he’d called the dead man. Artie only needed
a corpse to channel his spirit into, which was difficult enough,
but bringing her through was proving to be much more
difficult.


First, she already had a body. Artie thought
everyone over there was a dead person from over here. Apparently,
that was very wrong. They had cities, cultures, history. While she
told him about them he busied himself with falling even more in
love with her.


He realized this had become an obsession for
him. Artie only communicated with her at work so he always was
finding excuses to work late or go in early. Most people surfed
internet porn, instead he hunched over his talking cloth. Even when
he was home with Carol and the kids he was thinking about her.


“F-O-N-D-A-W-A-Y-T-H-R-U,” she spelled out
through the cloth. “N-E-E-D-U.”


“Where?” he said. “I’ll be there.”


She was royalty where she was from. She must
have wanted him too for her to cross over. She spelled out a set of
numbers and after he thought about it, he realized they were GPS
coordinates. He plugged them into his phone.


It was in Downeck.


Of all the places for her to come through,
why did it have to be there? He shook his head, he would be there.
Artie had to have her.


“When?” he asked.


“N-O-W”, she replied. He let go of the
planchette and it flew off the desk and bounced off the wall. She
must have been trying to tell him something else. He got up and
quickly grabbed it.


“What is it, baby?”


“B-R-I-N-G-G-O-A-T-S.”


Artie didn’t have a problem with animal
sacrifice. He’d done that before too. But the trouble was where to
find a goat in the city.


 



* * *


 



“So I figured our first stop should be to
find someone named ‘Primer’,” Kelly began. “I was reading the file,
and he’s an oxy-contin addict. I heard excessive usage causes a
person to lack empathy for others, but I have a couple ideas on how
to reach him.”


“No,” Israel said.


“No what?”


“We’re not going there.” Israel sat straight
in the backseat of the car, just like he had in Brimmer’s
office.


“Then where are we going?”


“To see Roost’s mother. She lives on the
East side.”


He gave the driver the address even though
Kelly hadn’t seen it in the file. Israel must have already known
it.


“Ooookay.” Kelly put the papers back in the
file and looked at the man. “So what’s your story?” The driver
drove out of the lot and onto Evergreen, presumably headed to 696.
Israel turned to face him with same wild look in his eye.


“I’m a specialist in the unknown. Most might
mistakenly take my expertise to be in the Occult, but I assure you
there is no such thing.”


“The Occult or your expertise?” Kelly joked.
Israel looked at him as if he hadn’t understood. Kelly cleared his
throat. “So you’re telling me something I pretty much already
knew.”


“No. There is something out there. Ugly and
evil and old. But you won’t find it in any book. At least, not
entirely. Imagine if you were thousands of years old and could have
destroyed the world several times over at one point. Would you
allow some insignificant life form to catalog everything about
you?”


“I suppose not.”


Israel nodded. “It’s good you don’t believe.
It’s best you don’t. Once you’ve seen is when you become the Heard.
They typically die soon after.”


“Okay.”


“I suppose ‘die’ is being a little
disingenuous. Usually they are killed in a very rude, gruesome and
brutal fashion.”


They rode in silence on the freeway a few
minutes.


“So why his mother? The file on her showed
Roost wasn’t close to her at all. He hasn’t spoken to her in years.
If not this guy Primer, why not the original detective?”


“Emotion. We aren’t going
to find Roost by any ordinary
means. But I can get on his trail if I follow the
right clues.”


Israel faced forward and said nothing
else.


They pulled off the freeway shortly after
and weaved through streets Kelly was unfamiliar with. There were
small, single story homes with sparse trees in the neighborhood
where they stopped.


“You should probably stay here.”


“Nah. I think I’ll come,” Kelly said.


“Your choice. Just keep in
mind you’re walking down the path of the Heard. Given time
they will hear
you.”


Okay, he didn’t believe
any of the crap Israel was saying, but it was creepy. He followed Israel
across the lawn and up a walkway to the porch. Even though there
was a doorbell, he knocked.


After a moment a little white-haired woman
opened the door. She looked at the two of them, her red rimmed eyes
darting back and forth.


“Y-yes?”


“Mrs. Messler?” Kelly thought he should do
the talking, but he didn’t really know what they were doing here.
“I’m Mr. Greene and this is Mr. Israel. We’d like to ask you a few
questions about your son if possible.”


“You found my Leslie?” The waver in her
voice was hard to listen to. This was a woman who definitely loved
her son.


“Leslie?” Kelly said. “I thought his name
was—”


Israel elbowed him.


“Angus Israel, Ma’am.” Israel’s tone had
suddenly become human. He was upbeat, rushed, as if he had a
million dollar check in his pocket that could fly out at any
moment. “We may well have a lead, Mrs. Messler. We just need to ask
you a few more questions to help clarify some things about your
son.”


“Oh, really?” She blinked tears out of her
eyes, which were suddenly larger than they should have been through
her bifocal lenses. “Yes-yes, certainly.” She swung the screen door
open and Kelly had to jump back as if she hadn’t seen him standing
there. Israel shook her hand and flashed that smile at her
again.


“Come in.”


 



The shorter one followed the taller one into
the living room. What was the taller one’s name again? Angus
Israel, she’d have to remember that. She plodded across the thick
brown carpet, past the large leather couch by the far wall, painted
a comfy coffee color. She’d left the kitchen light on, but it could
wait until the two young men were done. She wondered if they had
come alone, but remembered there was a driver in the car they had
climbed out of.


“Would you like tea? Water?”


“No-no. We won’t need to take up that much
of your time, Ma’am.” The tall one gestured toward the couch and
she nodded before he sat. The short one accompanied him on the
couch and she wondered how many strikes against the wall it would
take to split his skull open.


“Like I was saying, Ma’am,” Angus Israel
began. “We’re looking to get information on your son that maybe
prior investigators hadn’t gotten around to.” He was
strange-looking. Like he should be castrated and his balls stuffed
in his mouth. The more she thought about it, the more she was
certain she was right.


“What kind of information?”


The little one put a hand to the bigger
one’s shoulder, which he nudged away with a smile. The little one
had a worried look on his face, but said nothing.


“Well, we’re working on what we call an
‘external’ profile. I’m sure you’ve heard of profiling where we’re
able to piece together aspects of someone’s personality based on
the things they’ve left behind?” She nodded. She didn’t know what
he was talking about. “Well this works much the same way except we
build a profile based on what people had to say about the person in
question.”


“Oh, that sounds promising.” Mrs. Messler
wanted to offer them tea again. If they’d take it, she was certain
there was rat poison or something in the cabinet. She could hide
one of the kitchen knives in her brassier. “What do you need to
know about my sweet boy?”


“How do you feel about your Stout—I
mean—Leslie?” Angus Israel pulled a paper and pen out of his inside
coat pocket. He leaned forward on the edge of the couch and was
poised to jot down whatever she had to say.


“My Leslie,” she began. “He was… the light
of my life. I literally would die for him. I really would.”


“Mmhmm,” the little one said, rubbing his
chin. He didn’t seem to really know what was going on. He was a
cocksucker.


“Was he spanked as a child?”


“Not my Leslie,” she lied. “I spoiled him
after my Henry died. Every day was a whole new joy.”


“Whole… new… joy.” The tall one was writing
down everything she said.


“The sun rose and set on him. He was my
heart.”


“Sun… rose and set… was… heart.”


She felt her gorge rising but resisted the
urge to vomit in their faces. There would be time for that after
she had torn out their fingers and stuffed them into their empty
eye sockets.


“He was—”


“Thank you, Mrs. Messler,” Israel cut in. “I
think we have all we need.”


“You do? But I haven’t gotten you any tea.
Wouldn’t you like tea?” She walked toward the kitchen.


“No, but maybe you should check on your
bird. I didn’t hear it at all.”


“My bird?” She almost screeched. Nothing
could happen to Tolot. She dashed into the kitchen and doffed the
sheet covering the cage. He was still there and lifting the sheet
had awakened him. He cocked his head and hopped closer to her on
his bar.


Had they tricked her?


Mrs. Messler went on all fours, scurrying
back to the living room. The door was wide open and the screen door
was shutting. By the time she got to it they were getting in the
car that had brought them here.


She stood on her hind legs, pressing her
chubby wrinkly body against the screen door. She raked her fingers
down the window and howled.


 



“What the hell was that?” Kelly asked.


“Mrs. Messler. Don’t look. Just get in.”


They shut their doors and Kelly tapped the
driver’s seat. They pulled off.


“Take us to a liquor store that sells porn.”
He looked at Kelly. “Mrs. Messler is possessed. More than likely by
a Tolot.”


“What’s a tolot? And why do we need
porn?”


“It’s a
machín that typically
possesses a small bird and can gradually switch with a human if
they’re in close enough proximity for a significant amount of
time.”


“A ma-what?”


“Never mind. You’ll understand it
later.”


***


It hadn’t stopped nagging LaGina as to why
Brimmer had picked someone not in the Controller’s office to keep
tabs on the purse strings behind the Stout Roost investigation.
Kelly Greene hadn’t been in the department in three years. Maybe
they were trying to be low-key, maybe they suspected what she was
up to.


No, they couldn’t. Otherwise, they could
have just fired her. There was something else going on. Maybe there
was a special reason they’d picked Greene. She looked him up on the
company directory and made her way down to his floor. All the
floors the Network used in this building had mostly the same format
so you’d have to be an idiot not to figure out your way around once
you read the cubicle numbers.


She found his in a nest of empty cubicles on
the west side of the building. The directory listed him as being in
customer service, but so far as she could tell he was the only one
here. Very odd.


Greene had no pictures on his desk and she
couldn’t recall if he’d worn a wedding band. Maybe he wasn’t
married. There were a few papers neatly stacked to one side, a
phone and a PC. She pushed the mouse and a blue screen popped up
showing his desktop had been locked. LaGina checked his top drawer,
unlocked, and found pens, blank index cards, a stapler, paper
clips… nothing she needed.


The second drawer only had a bag of
Made-Goode hot chips. She tried the bottom drawer and it was
completely empty. He had a second cabinet on the other side of the
desk.


Why two? she wondered. He barely used one.
There had to be something in there. LaGina tried the top drawer and
it was locked. The other one was vanilla, why lock these drawers?
She rooted through the other top drawer until she found a letter
opener. It was always the ones who appeared normal who had
something to hide. Maybe it wouldn’t help her find Stout, but it
could give her leverage over Greene. If she could twist him to her
purposes she could get what she and her children deserved.


LaGina rammed the letter opener into the
lock and twisted. The lock turned and she slid the drawer open.
Locks were only license for a false sense of security, much like so
many other things in life, like love. There was nothing in the
first drawer. Nothing in the second. She hesitated before opening
the third. There could be what she needed in here, but it could be
dangerous. Maybe he had porn in there, maybe even the kiddie kind.
Maybe he had important corporate documents or maybe this one was
empty too. She was expecting anything.


LaGina opened it. There were some yellowed
papers on top of something. She picked up the papers and turned
them over. They were children’s drawings and from the likes of them
by a girl or girls a few years younger than her twins. Beneath the
drawings were pictures in nice wooden and metal frames. It was
Greene with a woman and two girls who looked close in age.


Why would he keep them in here? And the
frames were much too nice to keep at work—had he taken them from
home?


She checked beneath the pictures for
anything else; anything that might be damaging. This was so normal
it was just… weird.


Suddenly, LaGina felt as if she had gone too
far, like she had peaked in on him as he was going to the bathroom.
She began stacking the pictures back in the drawer, hopefully the
same way she’d picked them up. Before putting the last one back,
LaGina looked at it. It was all four of them on a summer day. They
must have been at an amusement park because there was a
rollercoaster in the background and he had on a hat that reminded
her of a cartoon character whose name she couldn’t remember. The
youngest girl had an orange bear that was as big as her. Everyone
was smiling.


But there was someone else in the picture
too. It was strange because she hadn’t seen this new man the first
time she looked at the picture. Something was wrong with the
picture because the man was half-faded, translucent, but he had his
arm around Greene’s shoulder.


She realized she knew that face.


It was the man Greene had left with a little
while ago.



OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












 



 



 



Greatest of all
time


 



 



It took a little while, but Artie found a
goat. He hoped one would do the trick. He’d called a couple
restaurants in Mexicantown until he found a guy willing to part
with his for the right price. Artie had changed into his exercise
clothes but the bastard had raked him over the coals for the thing.
She’d better be worth it.


Artie had to pick up his wife’s dog from
doggie daycare. A seven pound beast that pissed all around the
house and humped anyone with at least one leg. Another thing she
was too busy to take care of.


His mind drifted back to Kelly Greene. Poor
sap. His wife and kids. Nobody deserved that. He remembered seeing
the story on the news and realizing he worked for the Network too
in the Controller’s office. He’d had a breakdown, took six months
off, and when he finally came back they moved him to a ‘special’
department until he was ready to come back. But he’d stayed there
three years. This whole Stout thing was going to also work to push
him out. Greene’s special position was being eliminated whether he
failed or succeeded in finding Stout; it was just a matter of how
they had to spin it. Artie felt bad, but to hell with him. People
went through tragedy every day.


The dog jumped in his lap as he said a
silent prayer heading to Downeck. It wasn’t an ideal place to drive
and he’d vowed never to go back. Ever since the Gary twins in
ninety-six the world hadn’t been the same and it had all started
there. People thought Stout Roost had started it all, but they’d
just forgotten. Or their memories had been erased after the Garys.
He’d almost died with those two lunatics and the world didn’t have
a clue.


They were supposed to know about the black
arts and all their lives they had been trying to prove the
existence of another realm. Until then they had been clowns in the
magic industry; real low grade stuff, but what they had planned was
supposed to put them on the map.


They were much better salesmen than
magicians. Their tricks never lived up to their hype, one or both
of them usually got injured during their stunts, but somehow they
always found a way back onto television. Maybe people watched them
because they were a joke.


It was a live special on Friday night. Artie
was a camerman back then. One of the two the network sent. They’d
found the place of ‘perfect balance’—no one knew what that meant—a
hundred year old house in Downeck and began a long and boring
ceremony with ancient, cookware-looking items and chanting
gobbledygook. It was nice filler, nobody watched TV on Fridays.
Everyone was at the bar or a movie.


But then Glenn or Garver, Artie couldn’t
tell which one was which, started lighting up. Kind of like a flame
flickering in and out all over his body. He’d seen what they’d
caught on tape much later and nothing that looked supernatural had
been caught. But Artie had seen with his own eyes as the brothers
stood toe-to-toe and that flame began leaping between both of them
until they were bathed in blue fire.


Instead of running around
and beating off the flames they stood there. Instead of burning to
death they linked hands and kind of melted together. They didn’t seem to
be in any pain and the longer it went on the more he realized they
weren’t melting—they were being sucked into something.


A weird wind picked up out of nowhere. Not a
wind, actually. Random items in the room kind of floated into the
air and gravitated toward the Garys. They were only heads and two
pairs of feet when Bill, the other cameraman, lifted into the air.
The last of Garver and Glenn sucked down into the nothing and it
began dragging other things in behind them.


“Help me, Art!” Artie remembered Bill
saying, but it was already too late. His foot had already vanished
into it. Artie turned to run and something large smacked off his
head. He went down, but got right back up, running for the
stairs.


Pieces of the wall ripped off and flew past
him. A high-pitched whining sound started and he had to put his
hands to either side of his head. A moment later it stopped, but as
he ran for the door he realized he couldn’t hear anything. Artie
broke through the front door and the porch steps were yanked from
under him as he ran down.


Artie looked back and the house was gone. He
stood and looked around. A second later something hit him in the
chest, knocking him to the ground. He staggered back to his feet
and looked down at a ragged section of Bill’s bloody naked torso
with a piece of arm and leg attached. He heard the high-pitched
whine inside his head and the earth beneath him felt like it
shifted. Sometime later he thought that must have been when the
Garys point of perfect balance became imbalanced, when the dead
backfilled into the world of the living.


Artie wore the hearing-aid as evidence of
the occurrence, but people seemed to not remember things being
different than they were now. He knew there was a world once that
didn’t have ghosts, but no one else did. Ghosts were as accepted as
cockroaches. You didn’t see them every day, but you knew they were
around somewhere.


His phone told him he’d arrived. Artie
parked at the curb, slipped a small duffle bag over his shoulder,
tossed the dog onto the passenger seat and got out. He shut the
door and it immediately popped up in the window and watched him,
whining.


The air here was still different than air
anywhere else. The sky was the same shade of blue, but still wrong
somehow. He felt twitchy as he walked to the back of his Jeep and
popped the hatch.


The old goat stared at him. He grabbed the
animal by the collar and it pulled back.


“Smart boy, aren’t you Wilmer?”


Artie yanked and Wilmer came, but he
struggled. Wilmer fell out of the hatch and scuttled back upright.
Artie shut the hatch. God forbid that dog jump out the back. He
dragged the goat up the curb. Wilmer must have realized he wasn’t
going to overpower him and went limp, forcing Artie to drag him all
the way to the middle of the open field.


The one benefit to doing this in Downeck was
no one would see. The few residents who remained in this ghost town
only left their homes to go to work or shop. Nobody went for a
stroll here. There was no city government, no police, no fire, no
homeless, no guy in a Santa suit ringing a bell for Salvation Army.
No Knights of Columbus walking through traffic asking for
donations. And nobody looked out of windows. Any city services that
had to be provided were done by Detroit and they got in and out (if
they ever came at all). The streets had fallen into disrepair. If
you lived here you’d be lucky if the cable guy ever came.


Holding Wilmer by the collar so he wouldn’t
try to get away, Artie reached into his duffle and pulled out a
chain and a spike. He put the chain around Wilmer’s neck and the
spike through two links, cinching the chain close to the goat’s
neck and drove it into the ground. Wilmer stood up, yanked the
chain, and almost toppled the spike. Artie grabbed the goat by his
scruff and drove the spike back into the ground. He held it as he
fished out a mallet from his duffle and gave the spike about a
dozen swats, driving it deep into the ground.


He let go of Wilmer and dug out the talking
cloth. It was unnecessary to unroll it as they had already
established a link through it. Artie held it out in front of
him.


“Are you here?”


The talking cloth bent in the middle,
folding over to his left. She was pushing it. He took the big knife
out of his duffle and unsheathed it. Wilmer pitched back and
tugged, but the spike held. Artie stood to the side of it and
straddled it. He didn’t need to lift the goat’s chin to slit his
throat as it was already held high on the loop of chain around its
neck.


Artie slid the knife from one side of
Wilmer’s neck to the other. The goat pulled even harder and
actually pulled free of the chain. The back of his head slammed
into Artie’s stomach and groin and he fell down to both knees in
agony. He stayed on all fours for a long time, praying nothing was
broken or ruptured.


When he was finally able to stand he checked
himself over. His pant leg was torn, but there was only a red line
where the goat’s horn had scratched him. He scanned around for
Wilmer, his eyes following the spurts of blood on the soft ground.
He’d made it all the way back to the Jeep, his body underneath
Artie’s SUV except for his hind legs sticking out. It didn’t matter
where he died, just where the killing blow had been struck and the
first drops spilled.


Artie turned back and saw a giant black
chrysalis, pulsating about five yards away. It was about twenty
feet tall, forty feet wide, and covered in cilia. It had three
tapered ends and the one closest to him terminated in a yellowish
flagellum that was slurping up some of Wilmer’s blood. Once it had
finished the appendage shuddered, turned a dark brown, shriveled,
and hardened. The chrysalis shriveled and hardened as well,
shrinking down to about ten feet tall by fifteen feet wide.


He approached it, the talking cloth still in
his hand. No response. Where ever she was, she was gone now. This
had to be her! Artie tried to touch the hard shell, but the cilia
had frozen into spikes and pricked his palm. He brushed at them
with the talking cloth and they broke and fell away until he had
cleared a six foot radius.


He knocked on it and heard a faint knock
back. Artie pounded his fist on it, trying to break the shell, but
it was too thick. He looked around for a rock or something to smash
it with, but couldn’t find anything even close to the size of his
fist.


“I’ll be right back.” Artie ran to the Jeep
and the dog barely got out of the way before he hopped in. He
started it up and made a big circle into the street, turning around
to the lot. He bounced around inside as the SUV hopped the curb and
he revved it up to twenty-five. The Jeep rammed the chrysalis and
he flew forward, his nose banging into the steering wheel.


It was cracked, but still intact.


Artie reversed and pulled back to the curb.
Blood streamed from his nose, it was broken and he had to breathe
out of his mouth. He put on his seatbelt, took a deep breath and
stomped on the gas, the Jeep lurching backwards again.


“Shit,” he said, hearing Wilmer’s body
crunch beneath the tires as he bounced onto the street. He put it
in drive and gunned it again. Something punched through the crack
and Artie stomped on the brake and veered to the left, almost
tipping his vehicle over.


He got out and ran over to the chrysalis. It
was her hand. Artie tried peaking inside, but he was too short. She
had some sort of goo on her arm, but he kissed her palm.


“I’ll have you out in a moment, baby.” He
yanked on the jagged hole and the cracks spread some. He walked
back to the Jeep and popped the hatch again. Artie lifted a panel
in the bottom and took out his tire iron. He beat at the cracks
until chunks began to fly off. She helped too, pushing out pieces
as they loosened up.


She peaked her head out and looked at
him.


“Arthur?”


She was
gorgeous! High
cheekbones, broad eyes, full lips, and that accent. She was covered
in more of that goo, but first thing would be a shower at the
motel. He’d already concocted the story he would tell his
wife.


Artie ran over to his duffle bag and grabbed
his towel. He handed it to her and she nodded. The crowbar made
easy work of the cracked shell until there was a hole big enough
for her to fit through.


He held her arm as she got out. She was
tall. While inside the chrysalis he hadn’t realized, but she was
easily six-foot-five. That made more of her to love. Her legs were
long and thin, narrow shoulders, and, well, he couldn’t see beneath
the towel, but Artie was certain the rest of her looked good too.
He put his arms around her and felt her heart hammering. She leaned
down to him and he kissed her. She seemed surprised but leaned into
it.


“You’re going to be a hero, Arthur.”


“Well, I don’t know about that.” He wondered
how she knew English.


“No. Because of you I will be able to save
the universe.”


What was she talking about? This was
strictly a hook-up.


“Your name will be a remembered one
throughout both our worlds.”


“Hey, that’s great,” Artie started, not
liking where this was heading. “But I was thinking we could head
over to the motel first.”


She looked at him and cocked her head.


“Oh, you mean the sex. Of course. We shall
have sex innumerable times daily.” She said it
matter-of-factly.


Now that’s what he was talking about. Well
maybe two or three times a day for the first couple of weeks or so,
then maybe they could peter it down some.


“Would you like to have sex right now?”


“What? Here? No. I have a place. A special
place. It’s got candles and roses and wine.”


“Those things sound lovely. I’m sure it will
be nice. A good place to conceive.”


“Then let’s get out of here.” He took her
hand. The joke would be on her. He’d had a vasectomy seven years
ago.


They were almost to the Jeep when her towel
slipped. His eyes bugged as he saw the line down the middle of her
back and the twin dimples above her ass. She grabbed for the towel,
but not before he caught a glimpse of breast with a brown nipple
erect in the cool air. And a low-hanging, round gut.


“Hey, what is that?” Artie pointed to her
pronounced belly and walked around. It wasn’t that big and if it
weren’t for her dark nipples against her pale skin he might not
have thought it was anything but a little beer gut.


He’d seen it on Carol three times before;
she was pregnant.


“You mean my child?” She let the towel drop
and rubbed her hand over her belly in a circular motion. “Do you
adore it?”


“Child? You never said
anything about a child.”


“It never entered my mind. This is my
perpetual state.”


“Perpetual? So you’re always—are you
kidding me?”


Her face changed. She stood with her feet
apart and her hands on her hips.


“I am a Mother.” At least she said it like
the ‘m’ should be capitalized.


“So you already have kids?
You didn’t think to tell me that?”


“I have hundreds of
children. Thousands. If anything I thought it would have made you love me more.
I am known for my fertility.”


“So… so what are you? Like a quarterback—you
just throw it to anybody who’ll catch it?”


“I am not a quarterback and I’m unsure of
what you mean. If you mean lovers, I assure you I have only had two
and both were some time ago. I can conceive my own children.”


“You’re one of
those… man/girls?”


She looked offended.


“I am not a man.”


“Ugh, I kissed him.
I kissed him.”
Artie hunched over, his stomach doing flip-flops. “I think-I think
I’m going to be sick.”


“How dare you.” She covered her breasts
with one arm and stalked over to him.


“I can’t believe what I was about to do. I
gotta get home to my wife. My kids.”


“You’re married?” She gasped. The crowbar
was right by her foot. She picked it up.


“Don’t do anything crazy, buddy. Let’s just
figure a way out of this. Can we just put you back in there and
send you back?”


Artie’s stomach heaved and he fell to his
knees for the last time. He felt her standing over him and realized
he’d never asked her name. It was the last thing that went through
his mind before she plunged the flat end of the crowbar through his
head.


***


“So what do we need this stuff for?” Kelly
was still a little embarrassed buying porn. Especially the gay
stuff. There were only so many times you could say it wasn’t for
you. He wasn’t certain how this would help anything or if it would
be a legitimate expense. Israel took the half dozen greeting cards
and threw the dirty magazines in the trunk.


“Where to, gentlemen?” the driver said from
up front. He hoped she didn’t see.


“Just a minute,” Israel said. He took out
all six greeting cards and placed them face down on the seat
between him and Kelly in two rows of three.


“What do you think of these?”


“American Greetings, Hallmark, Green
Mountain.” Kelly shrugged. “Am I supposed to be seeing
something?”


Israel just stared at him.


“What? What’s a greeting card supposed to be
telling me?”


“It’s not just a greeting card. In each one
of these cards you’ll find something that Mrs. Messler said to us.
Links… keylocks. From a polar bear sneezing in the Arctic circle to
a teenaged boy taking his first shave.”


“You’re talking about the butterfly
effect?”


“Yes, but no. Small variations most times
result in imperceptible changes in outcomes. The point is
everything is linked to everything else in at least infinitesimal
ways.” Israel laced his fingers together. “Think of my left hand as
the past and my right hand as the future, the left, the time you
jumped off the swing and flattened Andre Hill in second grade and
the right, a… bolt of lightning that slices a tree in half and it
falls on somebody’s head. You can’t do anything about the left
hand—it’s in the past, already happened. The right, if you were in
the right place at the right time you could save that person’s
life.”


“But how would I know where to look or when
it would happen?”


Israel wiggled his fingers, making a
water-wave motion with his hands.


“That’s where the link comes in. We call
them keylocks. You find the keylock you can anticipate anything.
Prevent everything.”


“Even cancer?”


“Disease is more difficult, but yes.”


“Bull. You’re saying
turning left instead of right can prevent genetics. No way.”


“Yes way. Why can you have three siblings
pre-disposed to diabetes and only two get it? Or sole survivors of
a plane crash? It’s because all these things are keylocked. Most
humans just don’t know how to follow the bread crumbs. Even the
ones who do are stumbling in the dark.”


“What’s that word you keep saying?
Keylock.”


“A key by itself is useless except in one
particular door you may or may not find. A lock’s only use is to
keep things out. A keylock can work everywhere. It connects two or
more things that would have otherwise have been kept separate.”


“Like us from Stout.”


“There you go. We find that keylock and
we’ll be led right to him. It’ll be as clear to us as the sun on a
cloudless day.”


“Okay, so what do we do to find one of these
keylocks?” Kelly didn’t believe a word of what Israel was saying,
but he was willing to play along for the time being.


“Coincidence. The first step is believing
it’s a myth. A man-made construction.”


“So what—if I run into a buddy from high
school at a party that’s not a coincidence? There’s some divine
plan?”


“After you met that buddy, if you had had a
finely tuned sense, it would have brought you somewhere. And then
somewhere else. On and on like that until you had reached a logical
conclusion extending from meeting up with your buddy again. Haven’t
you ever picked up your keys for no reason and turned to the door
and stopped yourself? Or picked up a pen and thought, ‘Why do I
have this in my hand?’ and realized you had no idea?”


“No.”


“Sure you have. Everybody has. It’s like
having déjà vu about déjà vu.”


“What?” Kelly said.


“You know—you remember remembering you’ve
done a thing before, but you only remember remembering it when
you’re remembering it?”


“So when I’m not remembering it, I forget
it?”


“You got it.”


“No. No, I don’t.”


“Then try to fix in your mind the idea of
what a keylock is. What it does. Try to keep your mind open to
things that lead to things. It’s not always going to be a straight
line. Most times it isn’t.”


“All right.” Kelly let out a small laugh.
“I’ll try.”


“But keep in mind what else is implied by
what I said. Keylocks connect everything. And that’s how the bad
guys will find you too.”


“Right.”


“I mean it. They’ll use them to anticipate
you. You’ll think you left no tracks, that no one followed you, but
somehow they’ll still be there. You can’t hide. As a matter of
fact, hiding is the worst possible thing because that’ll make you
even easier to find.”


Kelly was more interested in shutting him
up. The Network had dug up a nut. He’d probably been paranoid all
his life; aliens and the government all conspiring to get him.
Kelly picked the card from the middle in the row closer to him.


“Here.”


“Don’t do that.”


“Do what?”


“Dismiss this. It’s real. Don’t do
that.”


“I wasn’t. I—”


Israel took the card. He turned it over
several times, tore it in half and then began tearing one of the
halves into pieces.


“Hey, you don’t have to take it out on the
card.”


Israel looked at him.


“If you’d been everywhere in the world a
billion times over, every place would feel familiar; every casual
passer-by would be a mundane encounter, if you had already done
everything, everything would be the same.”


“That sounds pretty boring.”


“And that’s what it’s like to be God.
Imagine how crushing a crown that would be to a human being. There
aren’t any surprises. Your very first snowball was a thing of
beauty, but the One who’s made a bazillion of them already wouldn’t
find your particular snowball anywhere near as fascinating as you
do. That’s why God lives through us. Just my theory, anyway.”


Israel set the pieces on his lap and began
tearing up the other cards.


“Yeah, I was going to say I don’t remember
that in any Bible.”


“Like I told you, They have no reason to
give away their secrets in books.”


“So God is one of Them?”


“No. They’re mostly flesh-and-blood. Some of
them have different color flesh and things other than blood flowing
through their veins, but they don’t exist on that level.” Israel
piled the pieces of the five cards together.


“Take a handful.”


“You say it like you know for a fact.” Kelly
picked up a fistful and Israel swept the rest onto the floor.


“I suppose I don’t,” he
said, taking the scraps from Kelly. “But I met a pretty powerful
being who survived his own head exploding. It allegedly had a conversation with
Him.”


Israel placed pieces of the cards in what
appeared to be random order. It looked to Kelly like he was making
a ransom note except it began with a string of numbers from the UPC
codes. He switched a couple pieces and added to it from the scraps
of the first card. Apparently finished, Israel stared at what he’d
done. Kelly looked at the pieces.


It was an address. Street number, name,
city, and state.


Israel tapped the driver on the head and
told her where to go.


***


 



Vince sat out on the porch in Sara’s rocker.
He hadn’t come out here since she’d died twenty years ago and he’d
lost his sight. He didn’t want to be out here, it was cold, but he
needed to be.


He could hear them coming when they were
about a quarter mile away. In his mind he saw the black Lincoln
Town Car coming up the unpaved road. He had long ago stopped
growing corn and had leased the land to other farmers to grow
wheat.


“So that’s what Ford’s building now,” he
said under his breath.


The Lincoln pulled into the dirt driveway
and stopped. Vince saw the tall dead man and the short black man
before they got out. The pretty young driver stayed in the car.


“Good afternoon, sir,” the black one said.
He was shifty. Looked around too much. Being away from the city
must have made him uneasy. He must not have known the area; Flint
was only a couple miles north.


“Good afternoon, gentlemen.” Their footsteps
sounded up the stairs. “How may I help you?”


“I’m Benton Israel,” the tall one said,
“this is Kelly Greene. We’re looking for Stout Roost. Has he been
through here?”


“That he has. Wanted to see my barn.”


Vince wondered why the short one looked
confused at the tall one. He wouldn’t ask; the whole mysterious
blind man thing didn’t suit him.


“Did he say where he was going?” the black
one asked.


“Nope. You can look in the barn if you’d
like.”


“Well, thank you, but why do you think we
want to look in your barn?”


“Because it’s haunted. Same reason Stout
wanted to see it.”


“Oh. Well. Do we just walk back there?”


“Aw, no. You don’t wanna do that. I’ll get
Hernandez to take you.” Vince cleared his throat. “Ay, Hernandez,
you down there in the basement still?”


“Yeah,” his friend said from deep inside the
house. It was funny that he could ‘see’ how these two looked but he
had no clue about Hernandez. He could have asked to feel his face,
but that was too weird.


“Gotta couple fellahs here want to see the
barn.”


“Aw, hell.” There was some banging from
inside. “Here I come.”


“Whoa,” the black one said.


“You guys come with me,” Hernandez said from
the side of the house. His friend had a habit of being two places
at once. He listened as his friend led the two men away. It wasn’t
meant for him to see what they were up to.


“Bear traps,” Hernandez said, high-stepping
through the high grass in the yard. He wore a sleeveless t-shirt
and gray knee-length shorts. His left arm terminated before the
wrist, a jagged scar running across the nub and up the underside of
his forearm. Kelly looked at Israel. They followed in his footsteps
like he’d told them. “We have to lay bear traps.”


“What do you catch in them?” Israel
asked.


“Ghosts.”


Israel looked at Kelly this time.


“They come outta the barn at night. Roam
around. We catch ‘em, but…” Hernandez shrugged, “they’re
ghosts.”


“You know they don’t like that,” Israel
said. “To be called ghosts.”


Hernandez turned and looked at Israel. He
rolled his eyes and kept high-stepping. They made it to the barn
and he turned to them with an odd smile on his face. The big doors
were partially open.


“Not to sound like a cliché, but this is as
far as I go.” He folded his arms and stepped back, plucking at his
handlebar mustache. “Take this.” He fished a small flashlight out
of his pocket and slapped it in Israel’s hand. “Call me when you’re
ready and I’ll come get you.”


The heat inside was like a thick, moist
blanket. The air was full with the smell of hay and old feces.
Kelly felt sweat prickle his brow, but Israel seemed unbothered. He
took off his coat and folded it over his arm as Israel flicked on
the flashlight. Hernandez pulled the barn door closed.


“Okay, why’d he need to do that?” Kelly
asked.


“I don’t know, but look at that.” Israel
pointed ahead. It was dark in here but it looked like a doorway was
far up ahead. “How big is this barn?” He turned the light left and
right and everything in here looked like what Kelly imagined would
be in a barn, but there was that doorway. It looked like it was
floating in the air as nothing could be seen around it.


“Maybe we should get out of here.” Kelly
reached for the barn door that should have been right next to him,
but his arm cut through naked air. Israel turned and the light
shone on only more black. Kelly watched as he turned in a circle.
The walls were gone.


Israel pointed the flashlight straight up.
They could see the support beams of the barn and the ceiling, but
when he went a few feet left or right it vanished.


“Is that door closer?” Israel said. Kelly
looked. It was. At least by thirty yards and when he blinked he was
sure it was moving.


“Should we move out the way?” Kelly
said.


“I doubt that would make a difference. I
think it’s approaching us.”


“Maybe it’ll stop if we split up.”


“I’m cool with that if you are.” Israel
gripped the flashlight tighter.


Kelly looked into the inky black. His mind
conjured a dozen or so variations of the monsters he imagined in
his room at night as a child. Except back then he knew they weren’t
really there.


As the door drew closer they could see
something on the other side pushing at it, like it was made of
rubber. Kelly steeled himself when it was about fifty feet away; he
had no clue how to fight a door.


Forty feet. Thirty. Twenty.


At ten feet it slowed, coming to a stop
about three feet away and two feet in the air. Kelly could see over
the top. Must have been made for a little person. He could hear
something like knives or claws carving down the other side.


“That what I think it is?” Israel said.


“I’m pretty sure.”


The door swung in and both men pulled back.
There was nothing there, but it wasn’t the same darkness that
surrounded them. At least Israel’s flashlight could cut through the
shadows, but when he shined the light in there it weakened and
died.


“What are we supposed to do—go in?” Kelly
asked.


“Maybe there’s hooded midgets in there. Take
a peak.”


Kelly made a nervous laugh.


“Let me see your coat.” Kelly handed it over
without thinking. Israel threw it inside.


“What did you do that for?”


“I don’t know. I thought it would fly back
or something.”


“Let’s think about this.
If Stout came in here he obviously made it out. He visited at least
two other places before he made that tape.”

“Unless he visited those two places, made that tape and
then came
here.”


Kelly hadn’t thought of that. If that were
the case then there was a real chance they were about to find out
exactly where he was.


There was a footstep in the hay. Kelly and
Israel turned, the light dancing around where the sound had come
from. Something was pacing in the hay, but there wasn’t anything
there they could see.


“What is it?” Kelly whispered. “Do you see
anything?”


“No,” Israel whispered
too. “Nothing’s there. I mean, something is, but I can’t see it.
And that’s really weird because I can see invisible
stuff.”


Hay rustled from somewhere else in the barn,
but before they could locate it the sound of shifting hay was
coming from all over.


But the door just hovered there.


Something large bumped into Kelly’s
shoulder. He jumped and looked. There wasn’t anything there, but it
had left something warm and slimy on his fingers.


“There’s something on my hand.”


Israel held the flashlight on it but his
hand looked clean. Kelly sniffed his fingers.


“Ugh, it smells like cow spit.”


Then the mooing began.


Israel stumbled over a couple steps.


“Something pushed me!” he said.


“What, is this place haunted with cows?”


Something stepped out of the door. It looked
like a shadow in the general shape of a human but the head was all
wrong. It straightened, but something about the shape of its bulky
body said it shouldn’t have been able to. It faced Kelly and
Israel, about Kelly’s height, leaning, like it was about to charge
them.


Kelly felt something nuzzling his hand. It
had a giant head and he scratched behind its ear.


“Okay, so they are cows.” He pointed to the
door. “But what’s that thing?”


The creature at the door didn’t move.


“I don’t know, but I think it’s time for us
to get.”


“Agreed.” Kelly slapped the side of the
ghost cow he was scratching.


“Hey, Hernandez!” Israel began. “We’re ready
to get out of here!”


The shadow thing took a step towards them
and stretched to be three feet taller.


“Mr. Hernandez, we want to go now,” Kelly
said.


They backed away from the floating door and
it receded too. It was at least sixty feet away when the shadow
thing started running in their direction. Even from this distance
Kelly could see white jagged teeth when its wide head opened in the
middle.


He felt the door at his back and turned to
pound on it. Israel joined him. They both called to Hernandez as
the creature closed on them, its mouth stretching wider and wider,
displaying even more razor teeth.


A column of light appeared and an arm
reached in and grabbed Kelly. He and Israel stumbled out into the
light. A moment later something large knocked them over. Kelly fell
onto his side and a moment later bear traps began springing in the
yard.


“There he goes! There he goes!” Hernandez
jumped and clapped his hand on his scarred forearm.


“You’ve seen that thing before?” Kelly said.
He and Israel climbed off the ground.


“You could say that.” Kelly tried not to
look at his arm. “Mostly I just wait to hear the traps go off.”


“How often is that?” Israel said.


“Every night.”


“What the hell did Roost get out of coming
here?”


Hernandez shrugged.


“Do you mind if we use your bathroom?” Kelly
asked.


“Sure. This way.”


 



Once they were inside Israel went to the
bathroom and Hernandez disappeared back downstairs. The inside of
the house looked better but not by much. Kelly walked around the
large room. It wasn’t a great room, as those were built in more
modern homes and this one was easily a hundred years old, but it
had a cathedral ceiling and a fireplace. There was no furniture,
though, and Kelly’s shoes echoed off the floor. He didn’t want to
go into the kitchen as that seemed intrusive, but he felt like he
had walked into something that should have been kept secret. It
almost would have been better if Vince hadn’t allowed them to come
inside. Maybe it wouldn’t seem so awkward had the man come in
too.


“All yours.” Israel stepped out of the
bathroom, wiping his mouth with a kerchief as the toilet finished
flushing. Kelly went in and shut the door. This must have been an
addition. The walls were a different shade of off-white, the toilet
had a sleek, aerodynamic design and the floor was tiled. He wasn’t
sure, but Kelly thought powder rooms had come back into fashion in
more recent years.


He lifted the toilet lid (funny, Israel
hadn’t gone since they’d met; did he put the lid down when he
finished or just flush?) and started doing his business. As he went
he spotted a beer can on an open White Pages.


He finished and flushed the toilet. As he
washed his hands he looked at the can again. It was Guinness. Kelly
had had it a couple times before. Pretty good stout.


Stout!


He turned off the water and dried his hands
on his shirt. He knelt by the White Pages, looking for something.
He wasn’t sure what yet. A page had been torn out, but before
whoever had done it they’d circled heavily enough to make an
impression on the following page. Kelly traced his fingers over the
name, Kenyon Murray. He tore that page out and closed the White
Pages. It was for the current year. He folded the page and put it
in his back pocket.


Kelly walked out of the powder room and saw
Israel outside on the porch with Vince. He wanted to ask if he
really thought Stout had been here. He wanted to tell him about the
White Pages. But this was too crazy. Saying any of that aloud would
lend credence to Israel’s insanity. It was some kind of trick;
Israel must have already known Stout had been here. Kelly joined
them outside.


“Any idea of where he was going?” Israel
asked.


“Didn’t ask,” the man said.


“We appreciate the time, Vince.” Israel
turned to Kelly. “C’mon, we have to get back.”


“Good meeting you,” Kelly said as he stepped
off the porch.


“See you,” Vince said.


“Drive,” Israel said after they got back in
the car.


 



“Do you want me to follow ‘em?” Hernandez
said.


“Nope.” Vince put his hand up to the smaller
man’s chest. “Too many horses in this race. We’ll get our chance
later.”


Hernandez disappeared again.


“Was that him then?” Syrah said. The porch
door creaked open as she came out.


“Not yet, Syrah. Not yet.”


“When.” It was a statement, not a
question.


Vince didn’t know how to tell the girl to
wait. She was destined to die and no matter how much he wanted to
prevent it both of them knew there was nothing that could be done.
But he still didn’t want her to go.


His mind flashed back to that night. The
fire that had killed Sara and taken his eyes. And the little girl
he’d found in the still smoldering ashes who had no business there,
let alone surviving. He’d made a vow to protect that baby and it
felt completely wrong to now send her off to die. It was like he
was murdering her himself.


“Tomorrow. Sometime tomorrow.”



OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












 



 



 



 



 



 Saving the world is hard to do


 



 



 



It took Jemen a while to comprehend this
conveyance. Not that it was difficult, but she gave birth shortly
after killing Artie. She regretted having to do that, but he wasn’t
the broad-minded man she believed him to be. He would have been
troublesome, perhaps to the point of hindering her mission.


But she had loved him even in the brief time
they had known each other. She would honor that love, if not the
man, and remember him. Jemen would speak his name when she had
accomplished her divine task, for without that love she would never
have been able to begin this journey.


Her son sat in the back, naked and gaunt. He
stared at her with his giant eyes, shivering. No doubt he was
hungry. She would have yet another hungry mouth to feed very
shortly as her belly had already swelled. From what she had divined
from the dead of this world was they used something called money to
purchase food. It was a ridiculous notion, to barter for something
essential to life, but the consequences for stealing would be
detrimental to her cause.


Jemen had taken Artie’s wallet and found
green rectangular lint paper with the busts of men on them. She
surmised the numbers in the corners must have been indicators of
denomination, a twenty being the highest one she found. There were
ones, fives, tens, but nothing between one and five, five and ten,
and ten and twenty. She wondered how she would pay for something
that cost sixteen dollars.


Jemen drove away, both her
and her son jostling around in the SUV as she pulled into the
street. The first step would be to find food for herself and her
babies. The second would be to find the machín.


***


Israel was reading the paper. They’d grabbed
sandwiches at a place called Oliver T’s on Hill Road in Grand
Blanc. Kelly had a grilled tuna on wheat with Swiss and Israel had
a Georgia Reuben. The driver had insisted she wasn’t hungry but
Kelly got her corned beef on an onion roll.


They’d given them a side of that nasty
slawse stuff. Kelly dropped his back into the bag, but Israel had
blindly poured it all over his Reuben, blending it into the
thousand island dressing. It was the juice from coleslaw except
made into a milkier, thicker sauce and it was awful. Kelly had
tried some once and had to throw away a whole cheeseburger. It was
one of those polarizing things, like well water or city water. If
you liked one you hated the other.


Israel shuffled the newspaper in his hands.
Kelly read the headline; apparently Polk was being linked to some
boat in dry dock. It described him as being “Slowski with Details”
referencing the name of the boat and the Polk’s already broken
promise to be more transparent after the last mayoral election.


The page looked weird for a moment. Kelly
blinked and it looked fine again, but he had a metallic taste in
his mouth and his stomach queezed. He held a mouthful of tuna fish,
saliva flooding over his tongue. Kelly grabbed the paper bag and
spat the tuna into it. Better. He picked up his Coke and washed
down the remnants. Much better.


His eyes returned to the page and whatever
it was had returned. He blinked several times intentionally, but it
didn’t go away. It was the letters. Like they’d been italicized,
but they were not. They stood out from the other letters, sparsed
all throughout the page. A few of the letters were next to each
other but his mind linked them together, making words,
sentences.


The ‘article’ read:


 



Harper Hospital was the setting for what
police are calling a gruesome terrorist attack and non-affected
areas are currently being evacuated. Authorities are not releasing
the attacker’s name, but allegedly at 8:02 this evening a former
employee released a deadly chemical in a hall down from Quiznos,
the fumes overtaking and killing visitors and employees alike.
Little is known about the chemical except that it seems to cause
rapid decomposition of the flesh even before death as many people
were seen fleeing the hospital with rotting limbs and exposed bones
as skin sloughed off before expiring soon after the incident. The
hospital was able to cordon off the affected area, but officials
are unsure at this point if the measures will be enough. Police are
asking those who have loved ones as either patients or employees of
the hospital to please hold all phone calls to Harper or the
Detroit Medical Center while they are resolving this situation.


 



Kelly couldn’t believe what he’d just read.
He blinked again and could see the letters forming into words as
plain as before. Could this be some kind of cosmic trick? Was it
something in the sandwich? Was it just wicked wishful thinking on
his part?


He checked the time on his cell phone. 5:38.
If it were real, it was about to happen in a couple hours. Kelly
felt silly saying something, but—


“Driver,” he said, wishing he knew her name,
“we need to go to Harper Hospital.”


“What’s going on?” Israel looked up from his
paper. The driver pulled into the left lane and made a Michigan
left. Kelly looked around but didn’t recognize where they were.
Israel’s sandwich was gone, but he’d been hanging on to the edges
of that newspaper since they got in the car.


“Something weird.” Kelly pointed at the
newspaper. Israel turned it around and looked.


“What, the shooting on Seven Mile?”


“No. The letters. Don’t you see them?”


“Uh, I see a
lot of
letters.”


“But some of them look different than the
rest. They make their own words.” Kelly fanned his fingers across
the page. “You can’t see it?”


Israel looked at Kelly then back at the
page.


“No.” He shook his head. “What’s it
say?”


“Some kind of attack at Harper Hospital. But
the funny thing is it hasn’t happened yet. It’s supposed to happen
at eight tonight.”


“You want to check it out? What if we can’t
do anything about it?”


“I think we have to try. There’s a lot of
people who could die. Could this be that path you were talking
about?”


“I don’t know. You can never really be sure.
It could be something totally unrelated. How about we just call the
police? Leave an anonymous message?”


“No. This message was specifically for me. I
have to do this.”


Israel smiled. If Kelly had known him better
he would have guessed Israel wanted him to say that. Israel sat
back and looked out his window. Kelly did the same for a while
until he felt Israel’s eyes on him.


“It’s what I expected,” he said.


“What?”


“Stout is Obscured.”


“What do you mean—like he’s rare?”


“No, I mean even if we were standing right
in front of him, we wouldn’t see him.”


Kelly stared at him.


“There’s this… ear, constantly listening for
things that don’t belong. I know things I’m not supposed to know.
Seen things that weren’t supposed to be seen. Because of that its
heard me and… things happen. People try to kill me sometimes.
Sometimes they’re not real people.”


“What do you mean not real people?” Kelly
wasn’t buying any of this. Israel was another one of those people
full of self-importance. “And what does any of this have to do with
finding Stout Roost?”


“Let me finish. The
company has given me a sort of muffler for lack of a better term
that keeps that ear from hearing me. It knows I’m still around, but
it can’t hear me well enough to pinpoint me. Makes it harder to
find me.”


“But not impossible.”


One of the tires popped. Israel shook his
head at Kelly.


***


She was heavy and he was tired. But he had
to keep moving. He was just so hungry, though. His thoughts were
foggy, but his daughter tugged on his shirt, tearing off his nipple
and pointing at two men standing on the shoulder of the freeway.
His mind sharpened somewhat and he said, “I see them… honey.”


She giggled and clapped as the two crossed
the grassy embankment, to the road, to the gas station. The man
followed, shambling as the daughter grunted and kicked for him to
move faster, pointing at the two men. He figured she was at least
three years old, but she still couldn’t speak. He grunted back when
he tried to quicken his pace and his ankle snapped. He stepped off
of the sidewalk and onto the lot of the gas station.


The man paused, feeling something rise from
his stomach.


“Whoa. Down boy,” he said, patting his
belly. He pushed through the rear door and stood just behind the
shorter one, confused.


She had gone quiet, clinging to him and
staring into his face. Her eyes were wide and stinking breath fumed
out of her mouth.


The man turned around and saw him.


 



“You okay, buddy?” Kelly asked the man. He
looked terrible, like he would faint any moment. In the back of his
mind Kelly worried about catching whatever he had, but when the
little girl reached for him he took a step back. It sounded more
superficial than he would ever admit, but she was really ugly.
Stringy hair, wide eyes too close together, a malformed mouth that
peeled back to reveal a gummy smile and a scattering of misshapen
and crooked dark yellow teeth.


“That’s a… nice haircut.” The man belched
and took an unsteady step forward.


“Step away.” Israel was behind Kelly,
pulling him by the shoulder.


“What?” Kelly let Israel pull him back just
as the man’s face turned dark green. He lunged at Kelly with
surprising speed, but his fumbling hand pushed him into a Snickers
display.


“Hey, hey, hey—what are you doing over
there?” the associate screamed at them, but didn’t come over to
investigate. “You get out and pay. Right now!” Kelly panicked,
kicking and punching at the air until he broke free of the display,
stuck on his back like a cardboard turtle shell. The man took a
noodly step toward him, the girl giggling and drooling and
clapping. Israel slammed the last door of the refrigeration unit
into him and he reeled back, cutting his windmilling arm on the
shattering glass. He struggled to keep his feet, but more than that
it seemed like he was trying to not drop the little girl, clutching
onto him and screaming.


Israel pitched the can of soda pop he was
holding into the man’s good ankle and it gave out with a thin,
snapping sound. He plummeted to the floor, landing on his tail bone
before his head bounced off the linoleum tile. He was very still.
The little girl stood, but it was obvious her legs were too weak
and stumpy to walk. She leaned over and shook the man, rubbed her
eyes and cried before reaching for Israel.


“Oh, no,” he said and turned to yank Kelly
to his feet. Israel hustled him up to the front of the store where
the associate was still behind the counter.


“What’s going on back there?” the associate
said.


“Klutz here, tripped and fell into the
Snickers display.”


“I thought I heard a baby cryin’?”


“Oh yeah, my friend here stumbled into one
of those refrigerator doors. Broke the thing—the glass.”


“Yer gonna hafta pay fer that.”


“How much do we owe?”


“Well I can’t exactly ring up a broken door
on this thing. Yer gonna hafta wait ‘til Dale comes back.”


“Hey no problem, but look; we’re really in a
hurry. Let’s say there are two hundred, two fifty Snicker bars in
that display.” Kelly had passed by that display on the way in. At
best there were only fifty. He looked at Israel and saw him leafing
through a giant wad of bills. “Let’s make it an even three hundred.
What’s a Snickers these days anyway, a dollar?”


“Th-that sounds right. To me.” Kelly could
see the man mentally licking his chops.


“Pay the man, Mr. Greene.” Israel stuffed
the cash back in his pocket and gestured to Kelly. He fished his
wallet out of his pocket and pulled out the company card Brimmer
had given him. The associate’s face fell.


“Hope those don’t go to waste.” Israel
winked. “We’re both allergic to peanuts.”


“Yeah—no,” the associate said, a smile
creeping into his face. “I’ll make sure they get to a good
home.”


It took a few minutes to ring up all those
Snickers, but as soon as Kelly signed Israel was hustling him out
the front door.


“Oh and there’s a mess back there we need
you to clean up for us. We’re really in a hurry.”


Kelly looked over and saw a puddle of goo
where the man was, but both he and the ugly little girl were
gone.


“Hey, you think that little girl’s okay?”
Kelly asked.


“I’m sure she’s fine. Let’s get.”


They crossed the street and climbed the
embankment and got back in the car, flat fixed.


 



“To hell with this.” Mel couldn’t even begin
to mop up this mess. He couldn’t wring it out of the mop and he was
just spreading it all over the floor. Some kind of acid—it had half
eaten into the floor. Dale had been gone for two hours. If Dale
didn’t care, why should he? He stepped over the puddle and grabbed
up the few Snicker bars that had spilled out of the display and
dumped them back in. Mel thought a moment and ran to the back and
grabbed an unopened box of Snickers, taking the change out of the
take-a-penny-give-a-penny cup and dropped the box in the display
too. He picked up the whole thing and went out the back door to his
truck, but the bottom of the display fell out before he could put
it in the passenger seat.


Mel knelt and began scooping them into the
seat, wanting desperately to be long gone before Dale got back, if
he was coming at all. He was still drawing unemployment; Mr. Bender
had been paying him under the table. He could eat these Snickers
himself or sell them.


Yeah. Go out with a Snickers stand and sell
them to people driving down the street. Thanks, but no.


He felt someone behind him and spun around,
panicked. It was a little girl, crying and crawling real slow in
his direction. She was ass-ugly. What kind of baby had pimples? And
her legs were really messed up too. Like they’d been broken and
never healed right. No wonder she wasn’t walking.


Mel could sympathize. He’d had to wear
corrective shoes when he was young. He crouched and held his arms
out to her.


“Are you lost, kiddo?” He wondered where her
mother was. “Where’s your home?” She looked old enough to talk, but
after her she stopped crying she just said junk like, “Uh-uh-uhh,”
as she stood on her knees, holding her arms out.


“Oh, you want me to pick you up?” Mel
scooped her up in his arms; she was way heavier than she looked. He
slid her over onto his hip like his sister did when all her kids
were little. Much better. “You wanna sit in my truck and have some
candy?” He shivered at the thought of how creepy that seemed, but
she nodded. At least she understood English. He sat her down in the
passenger seat and she snatched up a Snickers, chomping right
through the plastic, before he could get one for her.


“Oh, well, there you go.” She tore the rest
of the wrapper off and the whole thing in her mouth in two bites.
“Hey, slow down. Don’t choke on that, okay?”


She giggled.


She must be a brat, he thought. Way too
heavy for a kid her age and the way she’d just stuffed that
Snickers he could tell she was used to getting her way. He loaded
up the rest of the Snickers on the floor of the passenger seat and
by the time he was done she had another one unwrapped.


“Take your time on this one, okay?” She held
it up to her mouth and he reached as if he were about to take it
away. She screamed and swatted at his hand. Brat. Definitely. He’d
unload her on the cops as soon as he could. Mel didn’t have a child
seat, but he fit the belt on her as snug as he could.


He huffed at her after he shut the door and
she stuffed the other half of the Snickers bar in her mouth and by
the time he slid into the driver’s seat she had another
unwrapped.


Mel was just about to say something about
her unbuckling herself when she stood up and using the seat back to
brace herself, walked to him. She gave him a big hug and kissed his
cheek with her chocolate-smeared mouth.


He felt himself blush and looked back at
her. She had a line of brownish drool on her chin and Mel wiped it
off with his bare hand.


“Hey, I have an idea,” he said to her,
dabbing a tear from his eye. Where’d that come from? “Why don’t I
drive you to your mommy? Yeah, that sounds better. We can find her,
right?” She smiled, clapping and nodding as a mass of chocolate
pocked with peanuts came unglued from the roof of her mouth.


***


“Don’t you think we should have called an
ambulance or something?”


“For what?” Israel asked.


“For that guy. He was sick and he probably
threw up that gunk all over the floor.”


“That guy tried to attack you.”


“He was sick. He was probably
delirious.”


“But. He was trying to kill you.”


“You don’t know that. You
don’t know that.”


“Okay.” Israel stared out the window.


“What?” Kelly asked.


“What what?” Israel repeated.


“What is it you’re not telling me?”


“It’s nothing. If I told you, you wouldn’t
believe me.”


“That’s going to stop
you now?”


Israel shifted in his seat to face him. “It
was the girl. She’s the master, he was the puppet.”


“What are you talking about?”


“You didn’t step away from her because she
was ugly. You stepped back because you sensed on an unconscious
level there was something wrong. She feeds on her host and co-opts
his mind. He believes the things he thinks are his ideas, but
they’re not. I’ve had run-ins with her before.”


“You’re absolutely right. I don’t believe
you.” Kelly didn’t want any more of this conversation. “We’re
coming up on 94,” Kelly said.


Israel nodded.


“How do we know it’s not too late? What if
that article had the time wrong?” He wondered why he couldn’t
accept what Israel had told him about the little girl, but he
believed what he’d seen in the newspaper, despite it not really
being there. Maybe he’d reached his saturation point for the
impossible. Maybe because that guy at the gas station couldn’t have
known they were there. Maybe he just didn’t trust Israel.


“Because we have our fingers crossed.”


“And why is it we haven’t called the
police?”


“Even if we had his name and description,
it’s the same as with Stout. He’s Obscured; they wouldn’t be able
to see him.”


“Then why will I?”


“You’re on the path. You will see him
because you’re becoming Obscured. Somewhat, anyway. The further you
go, the more you’ll see.”


“Does that happen to everyone who gets on
this path?”


“Probably. The nature of humankind is
robust.”


“I still don’t see what any of this has to
do with Stout.”


“You can think of roaming spirits as lost.
Or you can think of them as people who’ve become Obscured by death
and are trying to return. Part of the reason they can’t is because
they’re Obscured in their minds.” Israel tapped an index to his
temple. “The ones who have accepted death are gone. The rest…” He
looked out the window and made an arching motion with his hand,
feathering his fingers.


“That article didn’t say a dead guy did
it.”


“I don’t know. Living people who are
Obscured is rare. That’s why it’s going to be difficult finding
Stout.”


“He could just be dead, couldn’t he?”


“No. I checked.” Kelly wondered how long
Israel was going to play make-believe.


The driver pulled into the valet area in
front of Harper Hospital. The car crawled up behind a column of
other vehicles and Israel waved to her.


“We’ll get out here,” Israel said to the
driver. “Stay close.”


“Go get some dinner or something,” Kelly
said a moment before getting out after Israel.


They weaved between the idling cars as the
sun finally set. Kelly wished he had his jacket. The temperature
was dropping fast. He followed Israel through the revolving doors
and came up behind him, standing in the lobby.


“All right, you’re on,” Israel said. “Which
way do we go?”


“We have to go that way, but we’ll need to
get past the security guard.” Kelly pointed to the middle-aged,
dark-skinned man in a uniform at the mouth of a hallway to their
right. He was sitting and leaned over on his elbows at a podium
with a Christmas wreath by the wall.


“I.D.?” he said to them as they walked
up.


“I’m here to see my Aunt Betty?” Israel’s
voice was suddenly filled with angst and worry. Kelly thought he’d
make for a good actor.


“You gotta go to the information desk to get
a visitor’s pass.” Israel nodded and turned to where he was
pointing; a woman behind a low-sitting desk with a line of people
in front of it. Israel made a drawn out huff and walked to the
back.


“I’m with… I’m with him.” Kelly said when
the guard’s tired eyes swirled on him. He scratched his
salt-and-pepper head and said nothing.


Kelly stood next to Israel, who seemed to be
concentrating on the back of the head of the man in front of them.
He had on baggy jeans sagged down to his thighs, gray puffy coat
and gray Lions hat over a nest of dreads, standing with one of his
oversized Timberland boots propped up on the wheelchair in front of
him.


The person at the front stepped out of line
and walked down the wide hallway leading to Receiving. They all
shuffled a few steps, including the guy in front of them who pushed
the chair up, keeping his boot up at the same time.


Israel’s eyes narrowed to slits and Kelly
was about to say something when he belched. Israel began rubbing
his stomach and chewing at the tip of his thumb.


After a moment or two the man in front of
them made a sound like, “Hmmmp!” before ducking his head and
pushing the chair out of the line.


“Whatchoo doin’!” the old woman yelled at
him, throwing her arms up as if there was something she could catch
onto. He picked up speed and Kelly saw Israel slide up into the
empty space they’d left. There were only three people in front of
them.


“What was that about?” Kelly asked. Israel
shrugged and went back to worrying at his thumb, this time the
other hand was tucked under his arm. The man in front of them was
on his cell phone, talking a lot louder than was necessary.


“Yeah, I know,” he said.
“But if she doesn’t listen, she doesn’t listen.” The man laughed.
It was an obnoxious sound that was a cross between the bark of a
dog and the hiss of a snake. “What was that?” He stuck his finger
in his ear. “No-no. Not two-thirty. Not two-thirty. No, I said no. I
said no. Wait a minute!” The man wandered around and eventually
through the doors and outside where he continued yelling at the
person on the other end.


Another person got out of line leaving only
one more in front of Israel and Kelly.


“Uhhh, I completely forgot what I came here
for,” the old woman said. She had on a long winter coat with
slippers and her frizzy grey hair clung to her head. Instead of
moving, she held her spot as the beleaguered-looking heavyset woman
watched with half-interested eyes. “Oh, my son… is here.”


“And what’s his name?”


“Oo. That I can’t remember.”


She turned and looked at Israel, who was
scratching his thighs furiously.


“Just a minute!” She turned back.


“Are you having a bad day, Ma’am?” The
clerk’s head tipped from one side to the other.


“Gee, I don’t think so.
This is so strange. Robert!
No, that’s not his name.”


“Why don’t we start with your name, Ma’am.”
The clerk’s eyes flashed over to the security guard. As tired as he
seemed he was alert. He was already halfway over.


“Gladys Trombley. No. That’s not my name. I
don’t know a Gladys. At least, I don’t think I do.”


“Ma’am, is there something I can assist you
with?” the security guard asked. Kelly took a subconscious step
back. Tired he may well have been before, but the guy had a
presence when he needed it. At least six-foot three and his deep
voice came all the way up from his knees.


She swiveled her head around.


“Danny!”


“‘Scuse me?”


“What took you so
long? I have been down
here so long just waiting
on you.”


Kelly thought if the man’s eyebrows went any
higher they’d crawl across his hairline.


“Mrs. Danvers!” Two men in scrubs
light-jogged down the hallway to where they were. “There you are.”
They both had on badges. Dr. Miller and Dr. Dave. “You can’t just
wander away like that, Mrs. Danvers. We were worried about
you.”


“But I found my son.”


The Indian-looking one looked up at the
security guard and gave a nervous smile.


“We’ll take care of her from here,
Hank.”


She mumbled in protest as they shuffled her
into a wheelchair a third man was standing behind and a moment
later they had disappeared into the shrinking dinnertime
traffic.


Kelly tapped Israel’s arm and stepped in
front of him.


“Uh, hi. We’re both former employees and we
need to get our last paychecks from payroll down the hall.”


The clerk nodded and plucked a sharpie out
of a pen cup and wrote “Visitor” and the date on two day-glo green
passes. Israel and Kelly took them and put them on.


“Okay, so we’re looking for a man,
preferably disgruntled,” Israel began as they walked past the guard
station. “I’ll see if there’s a paging system, you try to find that
hall.”


“What if I find him?” Kelly said.


Israel thought a moment. He grabbed Kelly’s
hand and roughly rubbed their palms together.


“Make a fist. Dig your nails into your palm
and I’ll come.”


Kelly nodded and turned down a narrow
hall.


“Wait a minute—why do we need to split up?”
He looked around, but Israel was already gone. Kelly continued down
the hall and was rounding a corner when he stepped on the heel of
the man in front of him.


“Sorry, man I—” Kelly looked at the man in
white who only turned and nodded at him, but the giant sunglasses
rising above his eyebrows and shaved head told him he was looking
at the terrorist.


Something on Kelly’s face must have given
him away as Brown, according to his nametag, turned to sprint
away.


“Hey! Stop!” Kelly said and barreled his
shoulder into the man’s back, pulling him down to the floor. People
walked around them, continuing their business as if the two men
weren’t there. Brown was thin, but wiry, and had easily flipped
over and landed on his butt. He began punching Kelly in the back
and hip and Kelly let go with one hand to try to ward off some of
the shots. Brown slipped a hand under his armpit and flipped Kelly
off, punching him in the solar plexus as he lay on his side.


He turned over onto his knees as Kelly
wheezed in pain. He couldn’t just lay there and watch while Brown
walked away. Kelly climbed off the floor and hooked Brown’s foot,
sending him sprawling into a woman in a purple, ankle-length winter
coat. The bag she was carrying from the Quiznos just down the hall
flew up into the air and spilled its contents. Brown’s sunglasses
skittered across the floor right underneath the foot of a heavyset
bearded man in scrubs. The bearded man looked down, made a face,
and continued on.


Kelly was barely on his feet and about a
yard away from Brown as he was drawing himself off the floor. The
woman in the ankle-length winter coat shook her head, grabbed her
bag and slapped the sub and chips back into it. She didn’t seem to
see Brown right next to her.


“You stop… whatever it is you’re about to
do.” It hurt when he spoke. Kelly wondered if Brown had broken one
of his ribs. The man on the floor spun his head around and snarled
at Kelly.


His eyes were wrong.


For a second he forgot about his pain. What
he was looking at couldn’t be real. Brown’s eyes had misshapen
globs for irises. Like eggs that had just been dropped onto a plate
except they were completely black and the edges wriggled.


Brown hopped onto the balls of his feet and
pulled a tucked revolver from his waistband and pointed it. The
strength left Kelly’s legs; they were much too close for him to
even think about diving for cover.


Kelly gritted his teeth, ready to go down
fighting when a squawk came from overhead.


“Oh I guess it would be
nice!” a raspy voice sang.
“If I could touch ya body! I know not
everybody, has got a body like you-uu-uu!”


Was that Israel?


Brown cocked his head to the side. Most of
the people around them slowed, turning their heads to the PA
speaker or looking around for it.


“But I gotta think twice!
Before I give my heart away! I know ‘bout all the games you play!
Because I play them too!”


Kelly realized he wasn’t shot and he looked
back at Brown, who was looking off into space and mouthing the
words. He leapt at him, batting the gun out of his loose fingers.
It bounced off the wall and clattered across the floor, a woman in
a white puffy coat kicking it unintentionally as she walked.


Kelly landed three good blows to Brown’s
midsection, tiny plosions escaping from the thin man’s mouth with
each punch. Brown brought his elbows down into Kelly’s back,
driving him to his knees. Kelly began to stand, looked up to see
Brown looking around for his gun. They locked eyes.


His fists were balled tight, but when the
man pulled a red vial from his pocket he charged, thrusting the
heels of his palms into Brown’s midsection. Brown windmilled his
arms, backpedaling to keep his feet. Kelly’s heart leapt in his
chest as he saw the vial clenched in his hand. Brown caught his
balance and punched him in the mouth, driving Kelly back a foot or
two, then blasted him with a quick kick to the groin.


Kelly’s vision went white and he doubled
over. Israel’s singing had stopped at some point but Kelly couldn’t
guess when. Long, skinny arms slipped around his head as he coughed
and tried to get the wind back in his lungs. Kelly punched and
gouged at whatever body part he could reach but Brown wouldn’t let
go. It felt like Brown’s vise-like grip on his skull was tightening
and then it went completely slack. Israel was stuffing something
back in his pocket as Brown crumpled to the floor.


“Thanks,” Kelly coughed.


“No problem.”


They stood and watched the man a moment,
motionless on the floor. People continued to walk around them like
they weren’t there.


“I don’t think he’s breathing,” Kelly
said.


“She’s gotta gun!” Israel and Kelly looked
behind them at a woman who stared at the revolver in the flats of
her palms before two burly orderly types dive-tackled her.


“I think we better get out of here.” 
Israel tapped him on the shoulder.  There was a little girl
tugging on her mother’s jacket and pointing at them.  The
mother was pinning her child and herself against the wall, ignoring
and protecting the little girl at the same time.


“Wait a sec.”


Kelly fished through Brown’s pockets and
pulled out an ID.  Suelo Brown had a medium sized afro in his
picture and normal-looking irises.  He slid the vial out of
his clenched hand and spotted something scrawled on his palm. Kelly
turned it over and saw the name “Bruce Strong” in an almost
illegible scrawl.


“We gotta get out of here, quick,” Israel
said.


“Okay, this way.”  Kelly slapped the
sub out of a man’s hand who was in scrubs, standing at the front of
a small crowd. He led Israel farther down the hall into a
remodeled-looking lobby area.  They turned right and went past
a row of elevators and into another hall.  Kelly pushed
through a door and into a short hall with a view on a parking lot
outside and they rounded onto some descending stairs.


“Oh my God!” a woman screamed behind them
before the door closed.  “Someone call security!”


They had to stop at the bottom of the stairs
while a young, muscular man pushed a giant bin of dirty laundry
past them and then turned around a corner, heading down another
hallway to a pair of weather-worn double doors that opened up into
the small lot they’d seen from the window upstairs.


“You know where we are?”


“Yeah,” Kelly said, pointing ahead of
them.  “That’s Mack right there.  Call the driver and
tell her to come around.  We’ll meet her at the corner.”


Israel called and told her where to
go.  By the time security burst through the door they were in
the car and speeding away to I-75.



OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












 



 



 



Old friends


 



 



 



 



 



 



“You know we have to find this guy,” Kelly
said, touching his sore jaw. “He might be in on it.”


“Already with you.” Israel had his cell in
his hands, plucking away with his thumbs. “I have one Bruce Strong
on thirty-two twenty-three Roselawn on the East Side.” He
tapped on the driver’s headrest. “You got that?”


She nodded and the engine roared as they
swerved into the passing lane. The freeways were clear giving them
a straight shot there.


It was dark by the time they reached
Strong’s neighborhood. It was in a quiet nest of blocks just
removed from a busy and dilapidated Seven Mile Road. Very few of
the houses were boarded up and the ones that were empty still were
well kempt. They were all large homes even though they looked
similar apart from their color schemes, with neatly trimmed lawns
and hedges dividing one from the other.


“Hey, that’s it up there,” Israel said.
Kelly wondered how he spotted the address in the dark, but looked
and saw a heavyset man standing in his doorway, dressed up in a
black suit with a white shirt and bright blue tie. The driver
stopped in front of the house and Kelly and Israel climbed out.


“What do we say to him?”


“Not sure. I have no idea where this Suelo
Brown thing is going, but it’s something we can’t just leave. Just
back me up.” Israel turned to the man on the doorstep. “Mr.
Strong?”


The man turned and looked at them, his
cheeks pink with exertion and a trickle of sweat at his forehead in
the pale blue street light. He had a black trench coat over his
arm. He was light-complected and freckled with large dark eyes. He
was short and squat; a good hundred fifty pounds overweight.


“How can I help you, sir?” He seemed
cautious at seeing two strangers on his walkway.


“Tom Israel.” He extended his hand for a
shake, beaming a smile and bright-eyed. “Did you have any business
at the hospital today?”


Strong’s already red face darkened even
more.


“Oh, you gentlemen are from the hospital.”
His face relaxed and immediately tightened back up. “I just
couldn’t do it—you’re not gonna tell my wife, are you?”


“Well, we don’t
want to,” Kelly said,
nodding at Israel. He had to clench his fists to keep from cupping
his aching testicles. “But we have to ask why you didn’t show up
for your appointment.”


“Look, I know I need the surgery, but I’m
just not ready. Y’know, I gotta get my mind right for it.”


“Bruce!” a woman called from inside the
house. “I’m not goin’! This dress don’t fit right!”


“C’mon, Earlie.” Strong swiped at his sweaty
forehead. “Take ya time, take ya time.”


“Mr. Strong, I don’t have
to tell you the seriousness of not
having the procedure done.”


“I know, I know. And it’s a same-day
procedure—you do it all the time. The doctor told me all that. It’s
just… my daddy and my grandfather both died in the hospital.”
Strong shook his head. “I can’t get my head over it.”


“Mr. Strong, I understand
your concerns. But you should be relieved to know we have made huge
leaps in technology over the past few years and there’s never been
a safer time to have it done. As a matter-of-fact, Harper boasts
the lowest mortality rate for this particular procedure out of the
whole Midwest region. And that includes Cleveland. Why don’t you
speak to one of our counselors? Here, call this number.” Israel
handed him a card and Strong quickly shoved it into his shirt
pocket.


“All right, Bruce, I’m comin’ down!”


“Baby, don’t forget your purse!”


“I’m goin’ back up!”


“Look. Earlie don’t even know I was supposed
to have the surgery. I’ll reschedule, I promise, but I need you
guys to get up out of here right now before she comes down.”


“Understood.” Strong shook both their hands
and they turned to head back to the car, but Israel turned back.
“Do you know someone by the name of Suelo Brown, Mr. Strong?”


“No. Why?”


“He died at the hospital today. Had your
name written on his hand.”


“Anybody you can think of have anything
against you?”


“I’d tell you no, but you should ask some of
my tenants.” Strong laughed.


“Where’s your property?”


“Highland Park. A little place on the corner
of Tennyson and Brush. I’ve been evicting them for three months
now.”


“Okay, call that number, Mr. Strong. Get
rescheduled.”


“Okay. You guys have a blessed night.”


“Hey, you too.” Israel winked. “And no
strenuous activity, if you know what I’m saying.” Bruce blushed
again.


They sank back in the car.


“What card did you give him?” Kelly
asked.


“I’m not sure. I swiped a stack of them back
at the hospital. You wanna check out that house?”


“Not really, but we have nothing better to
go on.”


“Okay, first thing tomorrow morning.”


Israel gave the driver the address to the
hotel.


“You can’t go back home,” he said to Kelly.
“At least not yet.”


“Why not?”


“My gut. It could be nothing, but I want to
play it as safe as possible.”


“I didn’t sign on for this. I almost got
shot today—I’m not looking for a repeat of that.”


“Look, I can only keep you as protected as
you let me. Finding Roost isn’t going to be easy and you had to
have realized there could be danger involved. The guy is missing
after all.”


“Okay, but just for tonight.”

“Right.”


They made it to the hotel in less than a
half hour and Israel told the driver to be waiting for them at
seven in the morning. Israel only stopped by the front desk to pick
up a keycard for Kelly. Apparently, he must have anticipated him
staying here.


Their rooms were both on the second floor,
but Israel’s was a few doors down from his. They said goodnight and
with a swipe Kelly was inside. As soon as he saw the bed he was
exhausted. He crashed on the bed and was asleep in less than a
minute.


Kelly dreamed of a distant figure. A man.
Kelly couldn’t see his face, just a silhouette. He was petting some
kind of animal, also in silhouette, a dog maybe, except it had a
really big head. It nipped the man’s hand and in an instant he was
holding it in the air by the scruff.


He held up a finger on his other hand.
Either it was a really long finger or it had a really long nail. He
poked that finger into the dog-thing’s belly as it wriggled around
in his grip. Its legs kicked even more feverishly and it whimpered
right before it popped.


 



Kelly’s phone rang. He popped up, the
aftertaste of a dream still in his mind. Something about a man and
a dog. He picked up the phone and hung up as the automated voice
chimed that this was his morning wake-up call. The fog slowly
cleared from his mind and the dream was forgotten. He met Israel
down in the lobby twenty minutes later and saw he hadn’t changed
his clothes either.


“Take us to Highland Park,” Israel said once
they’d gotten in the car.


Sleeping on it didn’t make Kelly want to go
back there any more than he did yesterday. They took the road and
within a few minutes were back on Woodward. They drove south,
Israel thankfully silent as Kelly tried his best not to think of
Martha and the last time he was on Tennyson.


 



“That’s Albert’s house,” Kelly thought he’d
said under his breath.


“‘Scuse me?” Israel and
Kelly climbed out the car.


“Oh. Nothing. It’s a nice house is all.”


Israel shrugged. Albert’s house looked like
he remembered it. He’d never been inside, but it was always the
nicest looking house on the block. Mint green and white wouldn’t
have been his choice for a house’s colors, but it had always had
the feel like someone cared about how it looked.


Well, it almost looked the same. They walked
up the cracked walkway, between a browning, weed-infested lawn and
onto the little concrete porch. The white aluminum siding had dents
and scratches here and there, not at all like Kelly remembered.


A skinny dark-skinned man appeared behind
the screen door before Israel could knock.


“Yes-yes,” he said with some sort of accent
Kelly couldn’t identify. “Please come in.”


“Your home is owned by Strong Properties?”
Kelly said as the man walked away.


“Yes. I must show you. Please come.” They
followed the man into the dark of the house, only seeing the white
of his sleeveless t-shirt.


“I didn’t see his eyes. Were his eyes okay?”
Israel asked.


“I think so. He moved too quick.”


“Please!” the man said from somewhere
inside.


Kelly’s eyes adjusted after a moment. The
windows were covered by thick blankets nailed above them. To their
left was a large television next to a wall with what looked like
African art, paintings and statues in various shades of black and
brown. There were stairs to the right with a black leather couch on
the adjacent wall. A heavyset teenaged girl was sprawled across it,
apparently sleeping.


“It smells like dog in here.” Kelly looked
around, but only saw clumps of animal hair in corners. His throat
felt scratchy. They walked across the deep brown carpet, through
the linoleum-tiled kitchen to where the man was standing by a door
with a combination lock on it.


Everything in here was dirty. The stink of
sour garbage wafted from the sink, half-filled with cloudy water
and dishes with dark streaks on them. No wonder Strong wanted them
out. Kelly looked at Israel, who either didn’t mind or hadn’t
noticed from the look on his face.


“I cannot do like this,” the man said,
taking off the lock. He pointed downstairs and Kelly and Israel
peaked down the stairs leading into a well of black. Israel flicked
a switch inside that lit nothing.


“Why would I go down there?”


“Please. I cannot do. You must fix—you must
fix.” He kept pointing down the stairs.


“But it’s dark down there,” Kelly said. The
man circled around the little island in the kitchen, snatched open
a drawer, fished through it, and brought back a pen flashlight. He
handed it to Israel.


“Do you know who we are?” Israel asked.


“You are from power company. Power is
out.”


“Riiiight! I apologize, Mr.—?”


“Jeremy.” He didn’t say ‘Jeremy’ but that’s
the closest Kelly could come to saying it.


“Well Mr. Greene, let’s see if you can get
that power back on, shall we?”


Israel flicked on the light and took the
first step. It creaked, but held underneath him. The light danced
around in his hand and he turned back to Kelly.


“Be careful. It looks like somebody took a
bowling ball to some of these stairs.”


Kelly nodded and followed with a hand on
Israel’s shoulder. Despite the cool of outside it was sweltering
down here. Considering what he’d already seen yesterday his mind
saw things in the dark he hoped weren’t really there.


When they reached the bottom something
skittered across the floor.


“That was me,” Israel said. “Must have been
a toy truck or something I stepped on.” They stood there, looking
around at whatever the little circle of light illuminated.


“Why isn’t
he down here?” Kelly
whispered.


“The customer is allowed to be afraid of the
dark. Well there’s the power box.”


Israel had stopped the light on a metal
square with its cover open. They walked over to it and Kelly
checked the breaker switches until he found the one in question. He
flipped it back and forth.


“I don’t think we’ll need the home
office.”


“You can fix?” the man called from at the
top of the stairs.


“Yeah, no, we’re all over it,” Israel said.
“You just hold tight.”


“Well, you’re the one who said there’s a
point to all of this,” Kelly said. “Why are we in the creepiest
basement in the city?”


Israel flipped the main power switch back
and forth.


“Wa-la.” He turned, swinging the light to
and fro, highlighting the basement. Surprisingly, it didn’t stink
down here. It actually smelled kind of fruity.


“Hello?” a female voice called. Israel and
Kelly jumped. The light crawled over to a makeshift curtain that
went from the ceiling to the floor. Kelly looked upstairs and saw
the man was gone, but he’d left the door open.


“Who is that?” Israel said.


“Who are
you?” the woman replied,
agitation in her voice. “Hugo, did you leave the power men down
here? Hugo? I swear that man is afraid of his own
shadow.”


Israel walked over to the curtain and pulled
it back.


“Man, you are
fat.” Kelly came over to
pull him away, but he got a peak of the woman’s leg and it was
pretty big. Israel stepped aside so he could see all of her. Most
of her.


She was easily a quarter ton- Kelly had no
idea how much more. Instead of clothes, she had a several blankets
draped over her flank as no one blanket was enough. Her body was
spread out over three mattresses pushed together with no bed sheets
on them. She reached up a globby arm and flicked on a tiny bed
light overhead. Atop the many chins was a face that may have been
pretty once, but anything attractive about her was drowned in rolls
upon rolls of excess flesh.


“Kelly Greene?”


He pulled his gaze away from the exposed
calf draping off the edge of mattress and looked at her. The face
didn’t look familiar, but…


“It’s me—Sendra Butler.”


Kelly didn’t remember that name at all, but
he could fake it.


“Oh hey, Sendra. From Spanish 2?” He’d had
Spanish 2 with everyone. Especially considering he’d had to take it
twice.


“And Algebra, and
Geometry, and Early American History, and Biology, and PhysEd.”
Whoa, she really remembered him. She giggled.


“Sendra, the power guys down there?”


“No, Hugo, just a couple guys I went to
school with!”


“You want your tea now?”


“In a minute! I’m still working on my
toenails!” To Kelly, “So, how you been?”


“Pretty good. You?” He wondered how in the
world she covered the wide expanse from her hands to her feet in
order to even reach her toenails.


“Having a little chest pain today. It’s
crazy, heart problems don’t run in my family. At least it’s better
than yesterday.”


“Ohhh, sorry to hear that.” She waved off
his mock concern. If she was unaware of how big she was Kelly
wasn’t going to tell her. He was certain he hadn’t known this
woman. There was only one girl who’d been more than six feet tall
and he remembered Danielle. If he had known Sendra in high school
she’d grown up and out since then.


“That your little girl upstairs?” Israel
said.


“Yeah,” Sendra said, eyeing him. “She’s the
reason why I vanished Senior year.”


“Oh, sorry. Sendra this is—”


“Greg Israel. Kelly and I work
together.”


“Really? Where at?”


“I don’t—” Kelly began.


“At the Network. You know
that Stout Roost guy? He’s missing.”


“Oh, I watch that show all
the time,” Sendra said, holding her pudgy hands up to her mouth.
All notions of suspicion had been erased by a hint of scandal. The
extra flab pooled beneath her arms made her look like a giant baby.
“That and ChíChé. I love
ChíChé. Speaking of…” Sendra turned and reached
for a small television hidden to the side of her. She set it on top
of her belly and flicked it on. She brushed her hands together and
let them fall to either side of her. She belched, patting her
fingers against her chest. It smelled like burnt
plastic.


“You know who I used to watch this with all
the time?” Sendra said. “Your mother. Right up until her surgery
last year I came over to see her every day. Is she doing better
since the cancer?”


Cancer? Kelly didn’t know anything about
that.


“Yeah. Yeah.”


“You know, I meant to offer my condolences
about Martha—”


“No, that’s all right,” Kelly interrupted.
“Thank you, though.”


“I wish I could have been there for you, but
Hugo and I were on a cruise. Last time I’ll ever do that. You never
met anyone in your life more sensitive about being on the water.”
She snorted.


“We need to get rolling,” Israel said,
checking an imaginary watch. Sendra surprisingly was able to lean
up, the television falling into the cushions of her thighs and she
grabbed Kelly’s hand. Her hands were dry and cold.


“It was so good to see you again. Tell your
mother I miss her, okay?”


“Of course. It’s good to see you too.”


“Could you tell Hugo I’m ready for my
tea?”


“Yeah.”


Sendra started patting her chest again with
her fingers after she sat back and hefted the TV back onto her
belly.


They stepped out and let the curtain drape
back. As they climbed the stairs Kelly remembered that there was
this one girl in school who knew all kinds of things about him. His
friends would tell him about her, how she would talk about how
close they were and vacations they had gone on together and how she
ate at his house all the time and he slept over at hers. He’d never
met this girl and if she’d been around him she’d never spoken to
him. He wondered if that was Sendra.


Hugo was perched on a footstool in the
living room, watching television.


“Hey, the missus is ready for that tea,”
Israel said.


“Power back on?” Hugo asked.


Israel gestured to the television.


“Yeah.”


Hugo got up as they went out the door. His
daughter was still plopped on the couch, dead to the world.


“Let’s go see your mom,” Israel said.


***


“Where is Mother?” it asked in Hugo’s native
language.


“She is… downstairs.” Even though he still
had his accent, Hugo hadn’t spoken it in years. He set the tea down
with shaky hands.


It looked at him and somewhere far away at
the same time.


“No, she is not.”


“She couldn’t be gone. She cannot move.”


“She is gone.”


“She has not—oh.” Hugo understood. His hand
trembled slightly, rattling the tea cup on the saucer. He teared up
at the sudden realization his wife was dead. He sat on the end of
the couch. It was going to be soon, but he wasn’t ready for this
soon.


“What… what will you do?”


“The same as your people have for hundreds
of years. Survive.”


It was staring at Hugo’s daughter.


“No. Please. She is just a child.” He
switched to English. Strange that it was more comfortable.


“Hugo, I cannot inhabit my own people. Your
brother Bruno carried me here so that I may live. You have not
nurtured me this long just to let me perish?”


“No, I…”


“Then with your permission.”


“I did not want this for her. She is just a
child.” Tears streamed from his eyes.


“We all must sacrifice. I did not die those
many years ago for my own sake.” He took Hugo by the shoulders. “I
will take her to bride and she will be by my side for eternity, to
be adored by all. What would you have better for her?”


Hugo nodded after a moment, swiped his eyes
with the heels of his hands. He stood next to the couch, looking
down on his sleeping daughter for several breaths before taking her
hand between his, rubbing her fingers against his grizzled cheek.
She stirred.


“She will be yours for a time yet.” It
squeezed him between the neck and shoulder as if trying to comfort
him. Hugo knew it was incapable of empathy, but he must obey. Fresh
tears sprang from his eyes.


“I give… my
child to you… of my own
free will.” He collapsed to his knees and began moaning, rocking
back and forth with his daughter’s hand pressed to his face. Its
form shattered into thousands and thousands of miniscule
insect-like things that floated, flew and skated across the carpet
in her direction.


“Daddy, what’s wrong?” He wished she hadn’t
wakened, but felt her hand on his head. He closed his eyes and
clung to that hand as they swarmed her, crawled over her, sank into
her. He’d seen this once and couldn’t bear it again. She screamed,
spat and grunted, thrashing about before it was over a few seconds
later.


There was a giant whooshing sound and Hugo
could feel it behind him again. His daughter spat out imaginary
bits of insect.


“Hello, Mother,” it said.


She screamed again.


***


“Just a minute!” Ma called
from somewhere inside the house. Israel’s hand dropped away from
the doorbell. A moment later a withered old woman appeared in the
doorway in a bathrobe and thick bifocals that stretched above her
eyebrows. This couldn’t be Kelly’s mother. She was just so
tiny. She still had the
high cheekbones and the hawkish nose and smooth medium brown skin.
Her long jet black hair was swept back from her face and piled on
top of her head, neatly held in place with two antique-looking
hairpins.


“Hey, Ma.”


“Kelly!” She pulled the latch and threw open
the door, grabbing her son with surprising speed and strength,
grabbing him around the waist. He settled his arms over her little
body, stooping into an awkward and uncomfortable hug, being careful
not to squeeze. She tipped her head back and puckered her lips and
Kelly leaned down so they could peck each other’s cheeks.


She slapped him.


“Where have you been?”


“Martha… the kids—I—”


“Poo. You’re not the only one who grieved.
Why you punish your mother so only the Man Upstairs knows.”


Kelly shot Israel a mock-dirty look that
dissolved into a big grin.


Ma stepped away from Kelly and looked him up
and down before turning to Israel.


“Well don’t just stand there,” she said.
“Who’s your friend?”


“Oh. Uh, Ma, this is Israel. Israel, this is
my mother.”


“You can call me Ma Perdy. Everyone does.”
She slid over and shook his hand. “He’s a handsome one. I had a few
white boys in my day, y’know.” Israel’s cheeks turned fire red and
Kelly’s stomach lurched. “You boys come on in. I just made a
wheatberry fruit medley.”


The three of them filed through the living
room, walking over the thick brown shag carpet then the linoleum
tiled floor of the kitchen. Israel and Kelly sat at the table while
she fished around inside the refrigerator. All the smells were
still here like Kelly remembered. A thick, earthy smell he
gradually stopped noticing the longer he was here. He found himself
smiling as he took in several deep breaths.


She set out two non-matching bowls with
likewise spoons before them before scooping out two lumps of a
scarlet-colored, thin-looking jelly substance with what looked like
seeds in it. Israel began downing it and was more than halfway done
before Kelly had eaten his first spoonful.


It was semi-sweet, the seed-looking things
spongy against his tongue. Kelly found himself scanning for some of
his standby hiding spots for things he didn’t want to eat.


“How do you like it?” she said to them both.
It wasn’t really a question, merely a prompting for them to
compliment her on yet another successful dish.


“Good.” Kelly managed his best possible
smile while he swallowed.


“Ma’am, this is very good. Could I have some
more?”


“Anything for you, cutie.” She winked at
Israel and dropped a couple more spoonfuls of the goop into his
bowl. She turned to Kelly. “You?”


“No, not for me yet.”


She put the big bowl back in fridge and sat
down with a glass of milk in her hands.


“So how have you been, Ma?”


“Oh, so-so. I had the cancer last year. I
had to spend some time in the hospital after they cut it out of
me.”


“I’m so sorry to hear that.” Israel squeezed
her hand and she smiled at him.


“Oh, it’s okay.”


“So what else is going on? Perry still
around?”


“Yeah, she comes around every so often.
Everybody’s asked about you.”


“Oh. I’ve just been involving myself in
work. As a matter of fact, that’s why we’re in the neighborhood. We
were down the street at Albert’s house.”


“Oh, that’s where the African girl lives
now. Well, she’s not African but her husband is.”


“I don’t know. His accent was Jamaican or
something, it sounded like.”


“You went to high school with her, didn’t
you?”


“Uh, yeah. I don’t think I ever met her,
though.”


“She used to come down here for a while. I
haven’t seen her in—ohhhh, three months now? Why were you down
there?”


“Well, the Board hired Israel to find this
guy who’s the host of one of the shows on our network. I guess they
want me to tag along, keep him honest.”


“It’s much more involved in that,” Israel
interrupted. “Your son has a special skill set that will be of
great use in finding the missing man.”


“What show?”


“Sorry Ma’am?”


“Ma Perdy,” she corrected. “What show does
he host?”


“The Ghost
Toucher.”


“Oh, I love that show! I record it so I can
watch the ChíChé, but right after that I watch it.” She lowered her
voice to a conspiratorial whisper. “He’s missing? Oh my, what do
you think happened?”


“Well, I’m not really supposed to say, but
considering you’re my partner’s mother and all, I’ll tell you. We
think it might have something to do with all the women he’s been
with. He’s a real womanizer.”


“Oooooooo. I bet it takes one to know one.”
She jabbed in Israel’s direction with her elbow. Kelly rolled his
eyes.


“Well… let’s say I’ve had my share.”


“Kelly, when are you going to get back on
that horse?”


“Ma, I’m not ready for any of that.”


“It’s been three years. You know Martha’d
want you to move on.”


“Ma!” Kelly stood up.


“All right. All right. Calm down. I’m sorry,
baby.” He took his seat and she rubbed his knee. “It’s just I want
you to be happy.”


“I’m fine how I am. Can we not talk about
this?”


She smiled at him. “You know, your face
right now reminds me of the first time I saw you. Your cheeks were
so red, like you ran from the other side of the world.” She turned
back to Israel. “Did I tell you this story?”


“No,” Israel leaned forward in his
chair.


“Ma, you didn’t know him before a few
minutes ago.”


“Oh hush, you. You don’t
want me to talk about your wife, fine. But you showing up on my
doorstep is my
business.


“Anyway, as you may have guessed, I’m a
little too old to be Kelly’s mother by birth. James and I adopted
him when he was three.”


“I’m sorry, Ma’am—Ma Perdy, but you’re not
in your fifties?”


“Heavens no! I’m eighty-three. Kelly will be
thirty-two in December. James and I had had a son, but he passed on
when he was five, God rest him. We tried, but we just couldn’t have
any more. One day I just got on my knees and prayed to God to send
me another baby. I didn’t care if he was healthy or not. I just
wanted another little boy. Less than a month later this one rang my
doorbell in nothing but his under drawers.”


“Oh God,” Kelly said.


“I just knew at that moment he was ours.
Knew it in my heart. We called the police and they sent a squad car
down and someone from protective services came too. Neither one of
us had any kind of record so they decided to let him stay with us
until his parents could be found. But nobody ever came
forward.”


“Did they ever figure out what
happened?”


“No. Kelly could barely speak, didn’t even
know his name. So we gave him our first son’s name. He had this
little rock thing, shaped like a horse shoe. As a matter of fact—”
She got up and scuttled from the kitchen into what had once been
the dining room. It had been converted into a bedroom/TV room
because she couldn’t go upstairs anymore. Kelly heard her rummaging
around, curious himself. As many times as he’d heard the story
told, he didn’t remember anything about a rock.


“It was just so pretty I kept it and put it
away. For years it just stayed in my little jewelry box.” She came
back in the room with a little necklace with a thing at the end of
it. “James put it on a chain, but he passed before we gave it to
you.” She put it around Kelly’s neck.


“Thanks, Ma.”


“It’s yours—you should have it.”


He held it in his palm and examined it. It
was shiny like a tooth, but pockmarked and deep yellow-orange. It
was curved into a horse shoe shape, both ends blunted with deep,
fingerprint-looking grooves on their surfaces. It felt cold and wet
against his palm, but his fingers came away dry after he touched
it.


“What do you think that is?” Israel asked,
looking at Kelly. He had a look on his face.


“Who knows? I would have said an animal’s
tooth, but how could it have been in its mouth? Besides, that’s not
a tooth like I’ve ever seen. Not good for grinding food or tearing
anything.”


“Almost like it would be decorative.” Kelly
wondered if Israel was trying to tell him something. He let it pass
for the time being.


The subject changed to his mother’s surgery
and they all had a cup of coffee. She still had hers black with no
sugar. Kelly never understood how or why she did that.


He finally made the move to leave.


“Well Ma, we really need to get going. Gotta
check up on a few leads before the day’s done.”


“Okay,” she said. “It’s good seeing you.
Make sure you come back. Don’t forget about us.”


“I won’t.”


They kissed and hugged and Kelly was grossed
out when she gave Israel even a chaste kiss. She watched them as
they climbed back in the Parke Car and waved as they drove
away.


Kelly let his eyes wander over the for sale
signs that stood in many of the lawns as they drove down the
street.


“Hold it.”


“What?” Israel said. The driver slowed in
the middle of the street.


“Gayle Hills.”


“Where’s that?”


“Not where.  Who.” Kelly pointed to one
of the signs.  “Some snot-nosed jerk I went to school
with.  Ninety-eight pound weakling territory.  Went out
of his way to make everybody hate him.”  He said to the
driver.  “Hold it right here.”


Kelly got out of the car and walked over to
a white for sale sign with red lettering in the middle of a
lawn.  ‘Gayle Hills Holdings,’ it read.


“You said this is all connected somehow,
right?” Kelly said after Israel joined him.


“Yeah.”


“Then we need to go here.”  Kelly
pointed at the sign.  “I’ve wanted to punch this guy in the
face for seventeen years.”


“Wow.  Never fancied you for the bully
type.”


“No.  You wouldn’t understand.  He
only looked like the kind of kid you felt sorry for.  He wore
the bad clothes, he was nerdy, he didn’t fit in anywhere, but he
was far worse than any bully I ever met.”


“OK.  I’m with you.  We’ll go see
him.  But why does he catch your eye?”


They walked back to the car.


“Hardly anybody is selling houses in this
market.  Especially in this city.  Look around; no fewer
than a half dozen boarded up houses on this street alone and this
guy has the nuts to try to sell even one house here.  These
for sale signs are a red flag for something wrong.”


“Good enough for me.” Israel googled the
phone number and came up with an address.  “G.H.H. is a couple
blocks away.”



OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












 



 



 



 



 



 



Back to school


 



 



 



He navigated the driver to Thompson
Elementary; a school Kelly and Gayle had gone to when they were
kids.  It had been closed after they finished the fourth grade
and they went on to Barber Middle School. Gayle had transferred
midway through the fifth but they had both started at kindergarten
here. The imprint of the letters was still visible and just beneath
them was a black sign with gold lettering reading ‘G.H.
Holdings’.


“That’s gotta be it.”  Kelly
snorted.


They pulled in and the driver found a spot
up front.  Kelly and Israel walked past several bushes Kelly
lining an expansive blue-green lawn.  The wooden playground
equipment was all but destroyed or missing; a few pieces of log
stuck out of the bare earth like broken teeth. Kelly wondered why
he’d left it standing. The house just outside of the fenced-in area
had a brown-green, patchy lawn and a roof that looked ready to
slide off. The building itself looked almost the same as he
remembered as a child except the old metal and glass front doors
had been replaced with two big copper doors. 


“Looks like he’s done well for himself,”
Israel said.


“Yeah, well, he’s still in Highland
Park.”


Kelly pulled open the heavy door and they
went inside.  They walked through the vestibule before they
entered the building proper.  Even though the décor was
drastically changed, Kelly remembered there was the cafnasitorium
to the left, the principle’s office and a hallway leading to
classes to the right. They turned right, walking past four leather
seats encircling a glass coffee table. The concrete walls had been
covered with marble paneling and the hallway came to a
T-intersection.


Kelly pointed to the door on the right.
“That was Mrs. Buer’s room. She was my kindergarten teacher. Mrs.
Simion’s room was somewhere upstairs. If I remember right Mrs.
Malfroid, Mrs. Huddleston and Mrs. Villareal are all upstairs
too.”


“Are?” Israel asked.


Kelly looked sheepish. “Were. I never got
why they closed this place. After the original Thompson burned down
this was built and it was the newest school in the district.”


“Ah. Fascinating.” Kelly got the picture.
Enough with the memory lane.


They walked past the classrooms, most of
them still had tiny desks and chairs scattered around. Many of the
rooms had been graffitied and it looked like a few of them were in
the process of being painted over. For all intents and purposes,
the place was empty.


“Were there any cars in the parking lot?”
Kelly asked.


“Don’t think so. Let’s go upstairs.”


Kelly followed Israel who outpaced him,
taking the stairs two and three at a time.


“HOW MAY I HELP YOU?” a booming female voice
called over the PA system. Israel and Kelly stopped, looking around
for someone else. “ARE YOU IN NEED OF REAL ESTATE SERVICES? A
MORTGAGE? ARE YOU BUYING OR SELLING A HOME?”


“Is she talking to us?” Kelly whispered.


“YES. I AM TALKING TO YOU.” There had to be
cameras all around.


“Um, we’re looking for Gayle Hills?” Kelly
said aloud.


“ONE MOMENT, PLEASE.”


Down the hall a red light turned to green
above glass double doors. They looked at each other.


“PLEASE PROCEED.”


They walked down the hall. A lot more
refurbishing had gone on up here; Kelly recognized none of it. He
pulled a door open and followed in behind Israel.


“PLEASE ENJOY REFRESHMENTS IN OUR CAFETERIA.
TO YOUR LEFT ARE REFRIGERATED FOODS. JUST AHEAD ARE FRESH FRUIT,
POTATO CHIPS, POPCORN, PITA CHIPS. ON THE FAR RIGHT YOU WILL FIND
CARBONATED BEVERAGES.”


“Pita chips,” Israel said.


“Hey wait—” but Israel left Kelly standing
there. This could be some kind of trap, but he didn’t know what to
do about it. This was a large room. Hills had to have knocked down
the walls to a couple classrooms.


“To hell with it.” Kelly went over to the
pop machine and poured himself a Sprite. “Ugh,” he said. Too much
carbonation. He poured it out and tried the Dr. Pepper. Same thing.
Finally he tried the Hi-C. Much too much syrup. He put in a little
Sprite and it was as close to perfect as it was going to get.


Israel came over, munching on a bag of pita
chips. “So now what?” he shouted.


There was silence a moment.


A green light came on over the doors just to
their left.


“PLEASE PROCEED.”


They went through the doors and went into
another large, empty room. There were a few empty cubicles against
the wall next to two empty offices on the corner then a row of
empty cubicles.


There was a meaty click in the door a few
feet over.


“PLEASE TAKE THE STAIRS TO THE THIRD
FLOOR.”


“Wonder why we couldn’t take the elevator?”
Israel pushed the door open and they took a flight of stairs to the
third floor. There was the same click in that door and they stood
at the mouth of a long, narrow hallway. There were more empty
offices and cubicles here. A few feet away from them was some kind
of supply room with a desk with a faux wood top, cloth office chair
and a multi-line phone. There were several empty metal wire shelves
against the far wall.


Kelly had been staring into the room when
Israel tapped him on the shoulder.


“Heads up, somebody’s coming.”


From the other end of the hall a tall man
approached them. As he got closer what Kelly at first mistook for a
bald head was actually the sheen of jet black hair pulled tightly
against his scalp into a pony that swung freely back and forth. He
had on pleated khakis with a belt that looked like it had been a
seatbelt in a former life hanging loosely around his narrow waist.
The patterned shirt he wore showed off his powerfully built upper
frame, the muscles of his arms and chest flexing with each step.
His face was serene, as if he either weren’t worried about two
strangers in here or hadn’t noticed them.


“Are we gonna have to fight?” Kelly
asked.


“You must be Israel,” the man said with a
rich tenor voice. They shook hands and Israel winced. He turned to
Kelly. “Kelly Greene.” He squeezed his shoulder then drew him in.
“Man, it is so good to see you again.”


“Gayle?” Kelly asked.


Gayle Hills was a skinny boy who was about
three inches shorter than Kelly Greene. Every day the two boys
walked to school together. Not because Kelly enjoyed the company,
but no matter how fast he walked Gayle kept up with him. Because of
their gender neutral names and the fact Gayle never left him alone,
eventually the two of them earned the moniker “The Girls”. Kelly
had worked hard to get in good with the popular kids and Gayle had
all but erased that in a week just by being around.


But instead of regular bullying that the two
boys would have endured for just being dorks their torment was
increased astronomically by Gayle’s ability to say and do the wrong
thing to the wrong people.


Like asking if Eddie Carrington how long it
would take the worms to eat his dead mother.


Or peeing on Eddie Crisp’s new Nike’s.


Or spitting on Mel Veach. You didn’t spit on
Mel Veach.


Kelly never did anything, but he was one of
the Girls and thus, guilty by association. The beatings didn’t seem
to bother Gayle and eventually Kelly was taking both their share
with threats for him to get that asshole in line or else.


Sitting across from this specimen of a human
being Kelly wondered if he were physically capable of beating Gayle
up if he’d smile and take it.


“So what is that voice on the intercom?”
Israel asked. “Some kind of interactive program?”


“No-no-no.” Gayle chuckled a deeper version
of that twelve year old’s annoying laugh. “I got fiber-optic
cameras all over the place, I saw you guys coming in.” He took out
a flip phone, thumbed about two dozen buttons in quick fashion and
pointed up.


“KELLY GREENE IS A POWER BOTTOM,” called the
female voice.


“Gee, Kelly. I didn’t know you take it,”
Israel said.


“I do not take it. Anyway, how did you know
our names?”


Gayle took a deep breath and let it out. His
smile faded. “I know what you guys are into. The dead tell me their
secrets.”


“How do they tell you?” Israel asked.


“Trade secret. I’m not psychic or anything,
but I have my ways.” Gayle reclined and laced his fingers behind
his head. “But along the way to building my fortune and buying this
cool ass building I got other info. I heard about you guys coming a
few days ago.” He sat back up and rested his elbows on the giant
oak desk. “Dead dudes know all kinds of stuff.”


“So I hear.” Kelly noted that Israel’s body
language had changed. He leaned away from him, tilted his head back
slightly so he had to look downward at him.


“So what did they tell you about us because
honestly, we’re kind of floundering in the dark here.”


“You’re looking for some guy on television.
They don’t have him. Or rather, he’s not on the other side. They
took him, scared him a little bit, but you can’t take the living
over there. They don’t know where he is now.”


“Do they know where they left him?”


“Physical location doesn’t really mean
anything to them. A spirit is pretty much either there or not
there. That’s why the ones that come back are confused as to where
they are.”


“What do you know about men with
funny-looking retinas?” Israel pointed to his own eyes.


“Oh. Those guys.” Gayle laughed. “They’re
some kind of new-age cult. Nothing you should be worried about.
They pretty much run their glee club of doom and leave everybody
alone. Bunch of wannabes. They only talk about destroying the
world—they don’t have the stones. They worship this Caribbean god
who’s supposed to bring Armageddon and make apple pie.”


“Well, I’d be inclined to believe you if I
didn’t get into a fight with one earlier today.” Kelly rubbed his
sore neck. “Uh, the harmless part. Not the god thing. He had the
address to a guy who was supposed to have heart surgery. Know
why?”


“Man, did he do anything to the guy?”


“No. Lucky for him he didn’t show up for his
procedure.”


“Oh. That’s good. No, I have no idea
why.”


“You’re lying,” Israel said.


“What?”


“I called you a liar.”


“Why would I lie? I don’t know him.”


“How do you know you don’t know him? We
haven’t told you who he was.”


“Well who is he?”


“I’m not telling
you now. You’re
in real estate, he’s in real estate. That’s all you need to
know.”


“So I’m lying because we’re both in real
estate?”


“I’m surprised you’d admit it so
freely.”


Gayle shook his head.


“So what else do you need to know?”


“We’re pretty much at a loss here. Could we
speak to your contact? Perhaps ask him where we should look?”


“I don’t think so.”


“We could really use the help. C’mon, for
old times sake.”


“No. I pay a considerable amount of money
for proprietary technology. I don’t just lend that out on a
whim.”


“I didn’t want to do this, but I gotta play
the favor card here.”


“Favor card? That’s a lot for you to
owe.”


“No. I’m talking about you owing me. I
pulled your fat out of the fire a whole lot when we were kids.”


“You’re talking about twenty years ago? The
favor card has expired.”


“The favor card doesn’t expire. No, the
favor card doesn’t expire.”


Gayle placed his palms on the desk and
straightened in his chair. He closed his eyes and pulled the
scrunchy from his hair, the ponytail falling loose around his
shoulders.


“I think we’re gonna have to fight him,”
Israel said.


His phone rang. Gayle opened his eyes.
They’d changed from light brown to hazel.


“Go ahead, Linda,” he said
after fingering a button.


“Mr. Hills, I have a phone call for
you.”


“Mr. Beans?”


“Yes.”


“Put him through.”


The line disconnected and a moment later the
phone rang again. Gayle picked it up this time and listened a
moment.


“Fraaank. Yes. Right now.” He motioned for
them to hold with a finger. “And what should I do with that
package? Oh you’ll pick up? Not a problem. Where are they going?
Cool then—corned beef on an onion roll. No-no, don’t give me that
thousand island crap; if I want salad dressing I’ll have a salad.
Mayo. It is not gross.” He put the phone to his chest and turned to
Israel and Kelly? “Want anything?”


Kelly shook his head. Israel just stared at
him.


While Gayle was talking Kelly tapped Israel
with his foot. When he looked over Kelly pointed to a picture on
the desk of Gayle hunching down to pose with a short, squat-looking
man with a mustache in mid-growth. Gayle was smiling while the man
looked like he lacked the necessary musculature to facilitate such
a thing. Kelly raised an eyebrow as if to say ‘What’s up with
that?’ and Israel made the OK sign with one hand and fingered it
with his other index finger.


“Well, we gotta get going,” Israel said,
rising from his chair.


“No, you guys should stay a while. Uh, let
me show you something. It’s cool. My real business. I’ll give you
my contact.”


“Thanks, but no.”


“Hold on,” Kelly interrupted. “We need any
lead we can get.” To Gayle, “Lead the way.”


“Follow me.” Gayle went out of his office
and Israel and Kelly trailed behind. Israel mouthed something but
Kelly couldn’t read his lips.


“Shut up?” Kelly asked, shaking his head.
Israel rolled his eyes as they followed Gayle through a small door
he had to crouch to get through.


“I keep this room dark,” he said as a light
came on. It was another massive room, with all white walls and a
wooden floor. In the center was a tree in a glass enclosure,
suspended in the air by four wires anchored to the corners of the
box. The roots were naked and long; the only part of the tree that
actually touched the ground. There was a port on the far side
connected to a small wide tank that appeared to be empty.


“It’s a tree.” Israel pointed. “What I
win?”


“Not just any tree,” Gayle said. “There’s no
reason that tree is even alive right now. I found it in the middle
of a wood not far from here. All the other trees were dead.”


“Well, a lot of trees were taken out by
Dutch Elm disease,” Kelly said.


“This wasn’t Dutch Elm.
Trees that had stood for hundreds of years just fell over with a
light push. It was a good place for a fire to start. I bought the
land on a hunch and found this tree and it eventually led to me
developing that.”
He pointed to the tank connected at the side.


“The reason that tree isn’t in soil or
outside where it could get sunlight is because it doesn’t respond
to those things anymore. I’d actually found two trees—that one and
an older one and I figured out it doesn’t ingest what normal trees
do.”


“Don’t tell me,” Israel said. “It eats
people and you brought us in here to feed us to it.”


Gayle laughed. “No. It doesn’t eat people.
It also doesn’t consume carbon dioxide or sunlight. The only thing
keeping it alive is the chemical compound coming out of that tank.
It’s odorless, tasteless, colorless and eventually going to make me
a lot of money.”


“How?” Kelly asked.


“The phenomenon in that wood isn’t unique.
I’ve been able to identify a few other places where it’s happening
and while most appear stable for right now, mine is growing.”


“Congratulations. You’re in the tree food
business.” Israel folded his arms.


“Not exactly. There were dead animals in the
wood too. So far we haven’t been able to isolate a living specimen,
but I suspect it affects all life.”


“It? What it?” Kelly asked.


“Anti-life. Like I said,
the one in my wood is spreading. And if it does affect vegetation
and animal life alike then we’re in for big trouble. So far I can
only produce this chemical compound in small amounts. It’s very
expensive. That tank will last my tree for the next ten years or so
but just imagine one hundred trees, one hundred people, a thousand,
a billion.”


“And you haven’t taken this to the
government because you want to be sure you bring the world to its
knees enough to pay whatever you want.”


“Not true, Israel. So far we don’t even know
anything for a fact. It could just affect trees. That would be
catastrophic but nowhere near as bad as a pandemic affecting all
life. Maybe these trees are dying from something else. I need to be
sure.”


“And that’s the official position?”


“That’s the official position.”


“Oh, by the way, Kelly, I was saying ‘set
up’. He’s setting us up. Somebody’s coming and he’s buying time
long enough for them to get here.”


“That’s ridiculous. Set us up for what?”


“Who would he have been on the phone
with?”


Kelly looked at Gayle.


“He’s right.” Gayle shrugged. “A new
business partner wants to meet you. Linda,” Gayle said into his
collar. “Need you here now.”


“You dick.”


“Let’s get out of here.”


“I really didn’t need to hold you up. Just
killing time. I control all the locks.”


“He’s right,” Israel said. “Let’s kick the
shit out of him and take the key.”


Just then the door burst in and a
mid-fortyish woman with humongous breasts with her hair pulled back
came through. She had on a navy blue pants suit and pushed her
glasses up on her nose as she stalked over to Israel. He hesitated
a moment but she didn’t. All Kelly saw was her hand clasp around
the back of his neck and he flipped over and landed on his back.
She looked up at Kelly and he took a step back, putting up his
fists and glancing between her and Gayle. She was short but her
feet were fast. She crossed over to him and double-punched him in
the midsection, knocking the wind out of him and sending him
crumpling to the floor.


Israel appeared behind her, throwing a punch
at her head. She side-stepped the blow, karate-chopped him in the
groin and suddenly had him in an arm bar. Kelly tried to get up but
his legs wouldn’t cooperate. There was a sickeningly thick popping
sound and Linda hovered back into view.


“Good shot, Linda.” Gayle gave her a fist
bump. Kelly raised his head and Linda stepped on it.


***


Mel was hungry, but he couldn’t eat. Not
that he hadn’t tried, but shit if he couldn’t hold anything down.
But she could. Ate enough for the two of them. If he didn’t have
his Discover card on him he wouldn’t have been able to pay for her
dinner. For the second time. She hadn’t stopped eating since
leaving the gas station and as soon as she had pounded back the
last Snickers she’d wanted more. He didn’t even get to have one of
them.


The nice lady at the window handed over two
bags of food. She was kinda cute. He smiled and nodded at her and
she gave one of those customer friendly smiles back. If he wasn’t
sick and didn’t have the girl with him he could get her digits. The
fries smelled delicious as he passed them over to the little girl.
He licked his lips and felt his gorge rise. He stomped on the gas
and pulled into a parking spot, leaping out and barely making it to
one of those shin-high bushes before letting everything go.
Actually, there wasn’t anything to let go. He’d only felt like he
was full of something.


Mel opened his eyes and saw the little bush
had turned white. His stomach grumbled again and he wondered not
for the first time if there was something wrong with him. Mel
looked up and saw her standing against the window, a mouthful of
fries, laughing. He climbed back in the truck, favoring his
stiffening knee and promised himself to stop by emergency as soon
as he had her dropped off. He was exhausted.


Dropped off? Where was
that supposed to be? He looked at the little girl,
his little girl and
smiled at her. Her mother had abandoned her and his was off
slutting it up somewhere in Arizona.


“Let’s go home, baby.”


***


Gayle Hills was still a dick. Big surprise.
Kelly opened his eyes but it was still dark. He was able to move,
but his back was against a wall. So the enigmatic ‘they’ were
coming. He had to figure a way out of here. But where was here?


Had to be Gayle’s corporate headquarters. No
reason to move him if they were already coming. But that begged
another question. Why were they coming for him? He was in customer
service and even if you threw in this investigation, Stout Roost
had nothing to do with these guys. But even if he did, Kelly knew
less than Roost’s fans and he still had no idea where to find him.
It had to be something else, but what?


Never mind that. First order of business was
to get out of here. Kelly found a wall and began feeling around
until he found a seam. Once he’d felt all the way around the door
he found it had no lock on the inside. Great. Maybe there was
something in here he could pry it open with. Kelly felt around the
floor but there was nothing.


He sat with his legs
crossed, facing the door. What to do? He tilted his head back in
the dark and asked no one in particular for help. Just then there
was a thick latch unlocking sound and the door swung open. Blinding
white light surrounded the figure in front of him. Kelly shielded
his eyes, wanting to leap up and grab the man in front of him;
gouge his eyes, kick him in the balls, something.


“Ready to go?” Israel said.


“How’d you find me?”


“You made a fist.”


They had an easy time getting out. Either
Gayle had left or he wasn’t paying attention to his cameras at all.
The doors weren’t locked. Kelly was surprised at how much he
remembered of Thompson and weaved them through a few hallways until
they exited the main entrance.


The driver had fallen asleep, but Israel
knocked on the window as they passed to the back door.


“Get us out of here. Quick,” Israel
said.


The tires peeled as the driver stomped on
the gas. After a series of hard lefts and rights they were back on
Woodward, heading north.


“Where to?” the driver said.


“I don’t know. Anywhere. It’s getting
dark—we need to hole up for the night. Back to the Marriott.”


“How’d you get free?” Kelly said.


“Played dead.”


“Did they ever come?”


“No. I don’t think so.” Israel kept looking
out the windows. “I never saw them. I think I was wrong. I think
Hills isn’t the player he says he is. He’s involved in something,
but I think he’s just a pawn.”


“Why am I in pain and you seem fine?”


“I always stretch before I get beat up by
middle-aged women.”


Kelly knew there was something Israel wasn’t
telling, but he dropped it for now. He was grateful to be out of
there. Gayle was still a dick except now he employed the
bullies.


 



Jemen was late. The gestational process had
been much quicker this time. He sat between his brothers, shivering
and naked. They had found Kelly Greene’s home and One had
accidentally started a fire. Any indication of where he might have
been went up in smoke until her contact called.


She’d had to call him back and use the
pseudonym ‘Frank Beans’. Two was hungry and they’d just stopped by
a restaurant that made sandwiches. They were on their way to her
contact when she went into labor. Three didn’t want to cooperate.
Twenty minutes had gone by before she had to pull him out herself.
She had to coo him and rock him until he was consoled enough to sit
by himself. Three was going to be a sensitive one.


“Where were you?” her contact said. He was
tall for a human, with black hair like a curtain down his back. She
shushed the boys and got out, looking down on him.


“Whoa,” the man said. “You’re a big
‘un.”


Jemen didn’t know what a ‘big ‘un’ was, but
it did not sound appealing. She let it go.


“Where is he?” she asked.


“That’s what I’m trying to tell you—he
escaped.”


“You assured me you had him in your custody.
How could he have gotten away?”


“He had somebody with him.” The man turned
and looked at the short woman next to him. Her hair hung down the
same way as his. Jemen sniffed—just as she thought—they smelled of
sex.


“What were you doing at the time?” she
asked.


“I was handling business. Look, I’m not a
babysitter.”


“You are a buffoon. Had this meeting
occurred an hour ago and you had failed you would be dead.”


The short woman stepped in front of him. Was
she his protector? Jemen smirked.


“Your man lives this day. Do not worry,
little one. But this situation must be salvaged.”


“Salvaged how?” he said.


“Show me where you kept him.”


The man seemed to think a moment.


“All right, yeah. Follow me.”


She beckoned for Three to follow. He slipped
out of the SUV, wearing tan khakis and a burgundy sweater over a
button-up shirt. He eagerly joined her side. Jemen’s belly had
already swelled with the fetus of her next born. It made the idea
of sacrificing her son not so difficult.


They entered the building and the man led
them to the place where he’d kept Kelly Greene. It was a small
space beneath the floor; he lifted a panel to reveal it. She’d
scoured the area until she found four short hairs. Not that much,
but they would do.


“Open your mouth,” Jemen told Three. She
placed the hairs on his tongue and the change began
immediately.


His skin darkened and his features became
more defined.


She regretted having to waste Three, but it
was a calculated step. All of her children would have relatively
short lives, but his would be even shorter.


She’d used the hair to change him. The
effect was rapid and even the one who had failed was amazed.


“He kinda looks like that,” he said. “The
hairline and eyes are different, though.”


“Speak, my son,” Jemen said to Three. She
didn’t feel the necessity to explain that two brothers who shared
the same blood hardly ever looked exactly alike, either.


Three had only been able to make rudimentary
sounds at first, but after a few minutes he was able to make full
sentences. He developed a cough soon after.


“Do you have the phone number?” she asked
the man.


“Yeah, but why would you want to call the
police? You’re not going to try anything stupid, are you?”


Ah, he was worried for himself.


“No. Thankfully, my plans no longer involve
you.” She picked up the phone and wiped blood from the corner of
Three’s eye. “Do I need 9 to dial out?”


 




OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












 



 



 



 



 



 Ride


 



 



Kelly’s phone buzzed. Funny, why hadn’t they
taken it?


“Hello?” he said into it after digging it
out of his pocket.


“This is LaGina Densmore. I was calling
about your progress.”


“My progress?” Israel shook his head at him.
“Everything’s just fine. Why?”


“I’m showing a transaction at a gas station
in the amount of three hundred dollars. You do have a receipt for
this, right?”


“Uh, yeah.” Kelly patted his pockets. At
least he hoped he had it.


“I’m certain you don’t need to be reminded
of the credit card policy. That’s a lot of gas.”


“Yes, well this car only takes premium.”
Israel gave him a thumbs up and a smile. “Can’t talk—going through
a tunnel.” He flipped his phone closed and asked, “What the hell
was that?”


“Somebody’s gunning for you.”


“Anyway, let’s assess
where we are. Gayle Hills is the bad guy. He’s working with
someone who’s the boss
of these guys with the strange eyes.”


“The Caribbean god guy. I’m calling those
people diffoids. But there’s another player in this too.”


Israel took out his phone and typed in
something.


“Maybe this god is Bondye. Apparently he’s a
voodoo monogod, supposed to be very aloof.”


“Doesn’t sound like this guy. If he’s taken
a business partner I would imagine he’s pretty active. What
else?”


“Maybe he’s… Baron Cimitiere. This guy wears
a black tailcoat, top hat and dark sunglasses and watches over the
dead.”


“What else?”


“Erzulie, goddess of love… Damballah…
Maman-Brigitte… I don’t think we’re going to nail it down right
now. Maybe it’s that Baron guy. They all seem to stem from African
gods.”


“Or maybe he’s something older. Something
forgotten,” Kelly wondered aloud.


“Well, remember what I told you. All of this
could be a ruse for the real deal. If some deity was really walking
around when the Europeans came around with men in shackles it may
have posed as something else to keep its true identity
secret.”

“But why would a god do that?”


“Easy. If man can enslave his own it’s only
a matter of time before he figures out how to do it to a god. It
would be better to keep us guessing rather than knowing a god’s
true nature. Man has an uncanny ability to break anything in his
path. It’s best to just… stay off the path.”


“So why now? If this Baron guy truly exists,
why expose himself even on the smallest level?”


“Who knows? Maybe he’s always done this kind
of stuff. Maybe he’s really just some guy who’s posing as a god.
How sane is your friend anyway?”


“He’s not my friend. And he’s as ape shit
nuts as he ever was. One thing I know for sure is that Gayle wants
Bruce Strong dead. He probably owns half the houses up and down
that street. Maybe Strong’s a hold out.”


“Doesn’t sound good for your mom.”


“No, it doesn’t sound good for him.”


Kelly’s phone buzzed again.


“Hello?”


“Mr. Greene, this is Detective Matthews.
We’re going to need you to come in for a few more questions and get
an official statement.”


“Excuse me, detective? A
few more questions?”


Israel raised his shoulders as if asking
what was going on.


“Yes,” Detective Matthews said.


“I’m sorry, what did I say in my original
statement again?”


“Let’s see.” Kelly could hear the detective
shuffling through some papers. “At six oh-five yesterday evening
you decided to give your life over to the goddess Bhuul and as an
act of your newly found faith decided to destroy all your worldly
possessions.”


“Oh, I see. Well that seems pretty clear to
me, detective. What more do you need to know?”


“Mr. Greene, you need to
understand. We did send an officer to your home and we have since
verified your home has been burned to the ground.”


“My what?”


“I have to advise you that you will be
arrested and that it would be in your best interest to turn
yourself in. If you’d like to contact an attorney and have him meet
you here at

headquarters—”


“Detective, I have to say I don’t remember
doing any of this. I didn’t call you and I didn’t burn down my
house. How do you even know it was me and not someone saying he was
me?”


“Good point. Why don’t you come down so we
can straighten this out?”


Israel was making the kill sign with his
fingers to his neck.


“I’ll tell you what, Detective—”


“Matthews.”


“—Matthews. I’ve got a
couple things I need to take care of, but as soon as I’m done I’ll
be there so we can get this taken care of. That work for
you?”


“It would be best if you came here
straightaway.”


“Well, what I’m in the
middle of may actually help to clarify the situation. Just give me
a little while and I’ll be there. Promise.”


“I really wish you wouldn’t talk down to me.
I’m trying to help you here. If an officer finds you on the street
he’ll arrest you. You don’t want that. Turn yourself in. I know
you’ve been under stress since your family, but if this were an
accident—”


Israel snatched the phone from his hand and
disconnected the call.


“Sheesh, I thought you’d never shut up.” He
shook his head.


“Hey, someone is trying to set me up.”


“Well that much is obvious, but considering
you have no idea who and how far it goes you’re not going to settle
it with a phone call. They could have been tracing the call.
Shit.”


Israel rolled down the window and tossed the
cell into the street.


“Hey!”


“Expense yourself a new one. In the meantime
we gotta get to Ferndale. I was checking through the file and this
friend of Stout’s might be a good lead. What he does is
interesting, at least.”


“What’s that?”


“He tortures ghosts.”


“What?”



OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












 



 



 



 



 



Cole slawse, Peabo &
how to kill a ghost


 







 



 



Getting out of the city was actually a good
idea. The police wouldn’t be as likely to search for him here and
neither would Gayle Hills’ people, whoever they were. Israel had
called him, a guy named Primer, and they were meeting at some old
haunted hotel.


They pulled into a cramped parking lot that
could have used a resurfacing. The hotel itself was actually an
inn; an old mansion or something someone converted at some point.
It was rundown-looking, painted burgundy with an off-white trim.
Israel and Kelly went inside and crossed a dull, creaky hardwood
floor to a reception desk. A chubby fifty-something with thick dark
red hair turned away from her paperback to peer over her glasses at
them.


“We’re here to see one of your guests.”


She didn’t say anything.


“A man named Primer?”


“He’s probably here. Do you know his room
number?” She didn’t seem to be asking because she wanted to be
helpful. It was more like she meant they were dumb and she had no
intention of looking it up.


“Uh, yeah,” Israel said.


“Then go on up.” She waggled her finger
toward the hallway behind them. “The elevator’s out so you have to
take the stairs.”


Before they turned to go she had already
gone back to her book.


They walked down the hall and bounded up the
stairs to the second floor. Primer was in room 209. Israel knocked
when they reached it and found the door was already open. He looked
back at Kelly.


“The homies got here with the quickness.” A
tall, skinny white man stood in a doorway with his back to them. He
seemed to be examining something. The room they entered was
actually the bedroom; a giant bed set in the center with large
windows in the wall behind it. Everything was a shade of red.


“What are you up to?” Israel asked. “Can we
help?”


“Nah, skillet. Almost done. Just gotta be
sure this room ain’t wired. A lot of these haunted inns be fake.”
He ran his fingers across the seams of the doorway and then turned
to look at them. He must have had terrible acne as a teen because
his cheeks and jawline were deeply pitted. His eyes were sea green,
matching the deep red of his hair, a shade or two different from
the woman’s downstairs.


“Don’t worry, we not kin,” Primer said.


“Primer, I’m Kelly,” Kelly offered his hand
and Primer just looked at it.


“Skillet, Primer was the name of my old
band. Calls me Taze.”


“So you’re a musician?” Kelly asked.


“Naw. I sucked.”


“Well, like Israel was explaining on the
phone—we’re looking for Stout Roost. I’m sure you’ve already
answered a bunch of questions but we’re hoping to find something
that’s been overlooked.”


“Aight. But I ain’t spoke to no detectives
prior to now.”


“No one has contacted you?”


“Why you talk so
white?”


“What?” Kelly asked.


“You talk like him,” Taze said, nodding at
Israel. “Like you white.”


“It’s English. It’s just how I speak.”


“Whatchoo wanna know?”


“Like what he was working on when he
disappeared.”


“Don’t know. Played ‘em close.”


Taze walked over to a painting on a wall of
a brunette in a long blue dress sitting in a rocking chair. He
grabbed the frame by its sides and took it down, examining the
corners. He turned his head up to the ceiling, looking no place in
particular.


“You gon’ come out now?”


Israel was smiling, but Kelly had no idea
what was going on. Taze fished out a box cutter from his jacket
pocket, balancing the frame on his hip. He held the blade at an
angle and cut the painting from top to bottom, going through the
head and body of the figure in the painting. The line he made was
almost imperceptible, but the effect was immediate.


A scream came from the bed.


“Most people think you can’t do nothin’ to
the dead,” Taze said. “Wrong. You can hurt a ghost if you can find
somethin’ they cared about in life and tear it up.”


Kelly looked at Israel who had a blank look
on his face.


“But you gotta do it real slow, like
torture, or you break the link.” He took a pen from his pocket and
poked one of the eyes out of the figure in the painting.


Invisible fists began pounding at the
mattress.


“So what are you doing this for?” Kelly
asked. “Did she bury a treasure somewhere?”


“Nah, man. Just for the giggles.”


“For fun?” Israel asked.
“You do this because you enjoy
it?”


“Yeah.”


“Not ideal, but what’s the big deal?” Kelly
noticed Israel’s tone, like he had something at stake.


“Nothing. Nothing.”


“Some guy built this place
way back in the eighteen hundreds. A wealthy logger or somethin’.
But he had this fine wife. After her kid was born she was sick all
the time. A couple years later the husband died. The kid grew up
and was just as fine as her moms, but she was a hoe. She even did
it in moms’ bed. And with everybody—the blacksmith, the undertaker,
the pastor—knowwudahmsain?”


Taze inked in a Hitler mustache on the face
and the bed squeaked just before something hit the ceiling above
it.


“Now that—” he pointed to the bed and then
back to the painting, “and this are the mother who died in the bed
or the daughter that came back after her mother kicked. Stand
back.”


Kelly took a step away from Taze and he felt
a breeze go past that didn’t touch his clothes. Taze grunted and
fell into the wall, holding the painting up as if to protect his
face. Kelly watched as red lines appeared on his cheeks before Taze
raised the painting even higher and brought it down on the corner
of the gold table against the wall where the painting had been.


The ghost screamed again, this time much
higher than before. Kelly clasped his hands over his ears and then
it was gone. Taze climbed off his knees, a small smile on his face.
Kelly took his hands down from his ears.


“What the hell was that?”


“That’s how you kill a ghost.”


“What?”


“Might need to do it a couple times, but
that’s the way. I’m hungry—dog, you buy me lunch and I’ll answer
your questions.”


“Let’s go,” Israel said, pushing past.


 



They’d walked to a restaurant kitty-corner
to the inn. Kelly felt bad about the driver just sitting in the car
so he invited her to come too. It was rustic-looking, white with
brown trim on the outside, faux wood paneling on the inside. They
passed an old woman who was just opening the door of a brown
Cadillac. An old man was already sitting in the passenger seat. The
car had a personalized plate with the letters “J-U-S-P-R-A-Y”.


“That stuff work?” Israel said to her.


“‘Scuse me?” the little
old woman said, clutching her keys.


“The spray. Does it keep them away?”


“Keep who away?” She looked confused.


“I gotcha.” Israel gave her a conspiratorial
wink and opened the door. She was shaking her head as the four of
them passed inside.


The only waitress on duty had a head full of
blonde hair like straw had been forked up and dumped on her head
and pinned down. She had the stare of a former drug addict—eyes
that had had all their life scooped out of them and backfilled with
an unnamed zeal. She kept it to herself, though, and the coffee
coming.


Kelly had to saw through his steak and the
eggs were barely runny. Taze’s fish and chips looked okay; he
wished he’d ordered that. Israel seemed fine with his double order
of pancakes and the driver had a cheeseburger and fries.


Turned out Taze didn’t know much more than
what was in the file. He and Stout had hooked up during the show’s
first season. Taze had taught him a couple things he knew and then
they’d parted ways.


“Check it—I don’t know where he’s at,” he
said. “Only thing he tol’ me was he found some kinda bus.”


“And that doesn’t mean anything to you?”
Kelly asked, swirling a square of steak through his egg yolk.


“Buses be all over the
place, man. Does that mean anything to you?”


Great. Two days and still nothing. Even if
they could find the bus Stout was talking about it wouldn’t bring
this thing to a close. It would just be another step in a long
procession of steps that led nowhere.


“I suppose not.” Kelly took another bite of
rubbery steak and munched on it.


“Hey, baby girl,” Taze said to the driver,
“What’s your name?”


“Anna,” she said. She smiled, but it was
more of a hey-I-only-came-in-for-the-food-please-don’t-hit-on-me
kind of smile. Kelly hoped he picked up.


“Aight, aight,” Taze nodded. “You from
around here?”


“Excuse me. Excuse me.” Anna flagged down
their waitress. The woman stopped suddenly, the coffee almost
sloshing out of the pot in her hand, her eyes looking ready to
shoot out of her head. “Do you have any slawse?”


“On a burger?” Taze said. “Man,
that’s ill.”


“I’ll see if we have any,” the waitress said
and took off, the silverware on the plates in her other hand
scraping around. She came back a few moments later with an unopened
jar. Taze snatched it up and began twisting at it until the lid
popped. He unscrewed it and set it in front of Anna.


“Thanks,” she said.


“Ain’t nothin’.” He tried to play it off but
Kelly saw him wince a moment and rub his palm.


She lifted the bun and used her butter knife
to scrape everything off the patty. Then she dumped three spoonfuls
of slawse on it and spread it until it was dripping off the sides.
It didn’t look very appetizing, but when she picked it up and took
a bite Kelly might have thought she was in heaven.


“That good, huh?” Taze asked. Anna nodded.
“Can I get some dibs?” She rolled her eyes at him.


“Look,” she said, her mouth full. Taze
reared back. “Whatever it is you’re looking to have happen—mm-mm.”
She shook her head.


“Why you gotta be all like that? I mean,
dang, can’t we be friends or somethin’? What, I gotta be Peabo to
get some play?”


“Peabo? You mean, like, Bryson?”


“Yeah. Peabo the pimp.” He banged his fist
on the table with the last word. “Who else can hit it and quit it
in one song?”


“What are you talking about?” Kelly
asked.


“Y’all don’t know about that ‘Feel the
Fire’?” Taze looked at the three of them as if they’d just landed
from Mars. “And if I should lose your love,” he sang in a decent
alto, “for any reason, any reason at all, then let my record show,
I gave you all the love I know.”


“That’s a love song,” Kelly said.


“Yeah, but it’s a love song about doin’ it.
All the love I know? He’s sayin’ he gave her two feet a’ dick.
That’s why it’s called ‘Feel the Fire’. He whipped it so good it
burned. And then he dumped her. And ‘I’m So Into You’—you know what
he’s talking about. Rick James ain’t got nothin’ on Peabo.”


“Suddenly I have a different perspective on
‘A Whole New World’,” Israel said.


Taze waved a hand at him.
“Don’t give me that Disney mess. Baby can you stand the
rain. Peabo like
blastin’ ‘em in the chest. Or goin’ number one on ‘em, I’m not for
sure.”


“That is not what that
song is about!” Anna laughed. “What is wrong with you? Yeah, a lot
of his songs are about love or making love, but you make it sound
so gross.”


“It’s not gross,” Taze said. “I think it’s
lovely.”


“Okay, then
you’re gross. My mother
took me to see Beauty and the Beast
when I was little and ever since I’ve been a
Peabo fan. He is not like that.”


“All the ladies give him irrumatio, I’m
tellin’ you.” Taze sat back in his chair and laced his fingers
behind his head.


Israel covered his face, choking down a
laugh. Kelly didn’t know what the word meant and neither did Anna
from the look on her face.


“I’m done,” she said, wiping her mouth and
placing the napkin on the plate. “Thank you very much for lunch,
Mr. Greene. I’ll bring the car over.” She got up and headed
out.


“We’ll be out soon,” Kelly said. He turned
to Israel. “‘Irrumatio’?”


“Uh, y’know.” Israel made an ‘ok’ sign with
his index and thumb and moved it back and forth near his open
mouth.


“Oral?”


“Nah, man,” Taze said,
sitting up. “Mouth pounding.” He belched, stretched and
stood up. “It’s a lot more giving than receiving. All right, peeps,
I gotta get back. There’s some other rooms I wanna hit up. Thanks
for the eats.” He gave them both a black man handshake and
sauntered out.


It was five minutes before the waitress came
back with the check. Kelly gave it back to her with the company
card and it took another five before she came back with a receipt
for him to sign. The pile of straw-blonde hair on her head looked
ready to fall over on her face.


Like she’d been tooting up.


Or letting the cook have irrumatio.


Kelly smirked.


Stop it, that wasn’t funny.


But it was.


He looked out the window and saw their
driver sitting in the car. Perfectly still as if she’d gone to
sleep.


Well, they
had just
eaten.


He signed the receipt and gave her a
better-than-she-deserved tip. They stood and walked out.


“So where do you think we should head next?”
he asked as they passed the driver’s side window.


“Not sure, but—” Israel seemed hesitant.


“But what?”


“I think the driver’s dead.”


“What are you talking about?”


Kelly stooped to peer in the window.
Everything would have been normal if her mouth wasn’t stretched
open in a rictus of agony.


“What the hell?” He stood up to look back at
Israel. “I think she’s dead!”


Israel just shook his head and pointed to
his ear.


“What? What are you—look this isn’t the time
for charades! Anna is dead!” Kelly reached for his phone and
remembered Israel had dropped it out the window.


“Give me your phone.” Israel shook his head.
Kelly reached for it on his hip and Israel slapped it away.
“Fine—I’ll call from the payphone in the restaurant.”


He walked past Israel who grabbed him by the
shoulders and quickly wrestled him to the ground.


“Get off me, you psycho! We have to call the
police!” Then he thought he realized why Israel didn’t want him to
call. They might make a call to DPD.


“Okay. Up. I understand. Ferndale police
might call Detroit police. I get it.”


“Earrr,” Israel whispered roughly into Kelly’s.


What?


Then he remembered what Israel had told him
about the Listening Ear. Like some kind of cosmic police. Guess
they were both wanted men.


“What, are they
nearby?”

“Yesss.”


“Where?”


Israel dragged him up onto his knees and
pointed skyward. It was already cloudy so Kelly didn’t see anything
when he pointed to a nondescript-looking one.


But then he blinked and saw a giant blob of
shadow behind it.


“What do we do?”


Israel made a walking motion with his index
and middle fingers and they both got up. He pointed to the driver
in the car and then to the trunk. Kelly nodded. He popped the trunk
and they took her out. She was little, but it was difficult with
her frozen in a sitting position. Kelly carried her by the feet and
Israel by the shoulders and on the silent count of three they
hefted her into the trunk.


“Hey, can I get a ride? That place is bol’,
dog.” Taze was suddenly standing in front of Kelly. He opened the
door and shoved the taller man in.


Israel crawled across the driver’s side and
into the passenger seat and Kelly got behind the wheel. The engine
was already running. He looked up to see the shadow had extended as
far as the eye could see. There was a large oak across the street
and Kelly looked again after catching the top of it from the corner
of his eye. The tips of the branches were curlicued and winding
down, like boneless fingers. They pointed in the direction of the
car and with each passing second it appeared they were getting
longer.


Israel punched him in the arm and Kelly put
the car in drive, pulling out onto the street and heading
south.


“Hey, wassup?” Taze asked as Kelly pressed
on the gas. The dark shadow had reached the street, covering the
outsides of most of the buildings they drove past. Up ahead a man
standing on the corner stepped out onto the street directly in
their path.


Kelly let up on the gas and Israel shouted,
“Just drive. Drive-drive-drive!” Kelly swerved violently around the
man and righted the car, straddling the dividing white line of the
two lanes. He looked in the rearview mirror and saw the man whirl
around. It was dark enough now that he could see the glow of the
man’s eyes and he knew that wasn’t a human being just before a blur
of wings appeared over both shoulders and he disappeared.


“What was that guy?” Kelly said. “He just
disappeared.”


“A lesser,” Israel said. “And we haven’t
seen the last of him if you don’t drive really fast.”


Something rocked the side of the car and
Kelly had to regrip the steering wheel to maintain control. A
moment later an ashen face appeared in Kelly’s window. Those same
narrow, yellow glowing eyes as before, above a beak on a mouthless
face. The creature reared back and punched the roof of the car,
rocking it again and Kelly had to correct his grip on the wheel
again. Kelly hoped it didn’t realize it could do the same to the
glass and kill him.


“The road-the road-the road!” Israel
screeched. Kelly veered away from the approaching curb as they
rocketed down the street. They sideswiped something he didn’t see
and ran through a red light.


The lesser’s face lowered to eye level with
Kelly. Its eyes widened as if it recognized him and began punching
the roof of the car again. Kelly jerked the wheel from side-to-side
and said an almost silent “Yes!” when it lost its grip, but it flew
back and latched on again.


It jabbed its beak through the glass. Kelly
could hear it sniffing. But instead of attacking again it yanked
its head back and looked ahead; eyes wider than before.


The lesser broke away, but it must have been
too late. Its wings shredded from its body and it fell against the
car, obviously in pain from the panicked look in its eyes. It fell
out of view and Kelly felt the rear tire bump over it.


“Slow down,” Israel said. “I think we’re out
of it.”


“Out of what?”


“Homies, I don’t know what that was, but it
was dope! Let’s go back.”

“Shut up,” Israel and Kelly said.


“I don’t know what they call it,” Israel
began as Kelly slowed the car. “It’s their version of a patrol. But
instead of sending a unit or whatever they just change the
surrounding area to suit their needs.”


“And why do they want you?”


Israel said nothing.


“Right. So more you’re not telling me.”


“Make a right here.”


Something pounded in the trunk. Israel and
Kelly both screamed.


“Who dat?” Taze said.


“The driver, but she’s dead,” Israel said.
Kelly slapped his shoulder. “What—we didn’t kill her.”


“She ain’t dead,” Taze said. “I can hear her
screamin’.”


They pulled over and the three of them
carefully approached the trunk.


“You alive in there?” Israel knocked on the
trunk.


“Please let me out,” came Anna’s muffled
reply.


“Okay, Kelly’s going to let you out, but be
real cool. I got a tire iron.”


“Skillet, wouldn’t the tire iron be in the
trunk?”


They stared at Taze until he backed off.
Kelly inserted the key as quietly as he could. He turned it,
jumping back as the trunk popped open and the driver sat up. Her
eyes raced from man to man, fear and sweat on her face. Israel and
Kelly took a big step back.


Her irises were all wrong.



OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












 



 



 



 



 



Not welcome
here


 



 



 



 



It was dying. There was no hope for this
body, but it had to survive. It had seen the prophesied Hated One
and it couldn’t die being the only one knowing He was here. It had
to find a new host. It had crawled as closely as it could to the
Jexclp’ar and that had only allowed it to feel the pain of its
life’s blood leaking away even more exquisitely. There was one who
was close, but it would have to do something to draw him
closer.


A cat was just behind it, licking its blood
from the ground. Hated creature, boon to all his kind. In normal
life, touching one would be suicide, but that would hardly matter
here. It reached out, grabbing the cat by the neck and immediately
its flesh began to burn. The pain equaled leaving the protection of
the Jexclp’ar, but it worked as the cat began screeching.


The arm rotted away and the cat ran off. A
moment later a man in a brown uniform and hat hovered into view. He
wore a silver star over his heart. A lawman. How fitting.


“What the hell is that?” the lawman said,
leaning over. He wouldn’t touch it, no, but it needed him closer.
Its body ossifying, it summoned the strength for one last
twitch.


“Still alive, whatever you are, you
bastard,” the lawman said. He nudged it with his toe and that was
enough. The leap from the dying form into the lawman was
instant.


“Still alive,” it said through the lawman’s
mouth.


***


“I think it’s time for someone to take a
Paul-cation,” Israel said, holding her by the shoulders.


“Who’s Paul?” she whimpered.


“Exactly.”


“Israel, cut it out. She’s a human being.
Kinda.” Kelly stopped pacing and stared at him.


“See y’all got some pure
Peabo in you,” Taze said. “You throw the ladies in
trunks!”


“She’s working for the
other team. We have to do something.”


“What other team?” Taze said, looking back
and forth between Israel and Anna and Kelly. “You a lezzie?”


“Israel, stop.” He let her
go, but pointed a warning finger. “Taze, never mind. It’s a long
story.” Kelly paced the width of the narrow alley. They’d come back
to Highland Park, having no real destination in mind. First the
driver was dead, now she was alive but one of them. Whoever they were, Kelly still had no idea.
If they could rely on anything Gayle Hills told them they were just
a bunch of fanatics, worshipping some Caribbean god. But if that
god did exist then Hills was in business with him and Kelly was
back to square one, wondering what their true agenda
was.


“I have a husband and daughter. I’m not part
of anything.”


“Yeah right,” Israel said. “Do you want it
between the eyes or in the heart?”


“That’s what Peabo say.”


“I don’t want it anywhere. I just want to go
home.”


“Well that’s not going to happen. You’re
with them. When did it happen?”


“When did what happen? All I’ve been doing
is driving you around for the last two days, then you invite me in
to have lunch with you and then I wake up in the trunk.”


Kelly stepped over and offered a hand to
help her out.


“Thank you.”


“Look, Anna, I’m sorry about all this. You
shouldn’t be involved. These jerks want something with us and you
happened to be in their way. That being said, we will be watching
you if you’re working with them.”


“If I am, I swear I don’t know it.”


“So he’s the bad cop now?” Israel said to
Taze.


“Why do you think I’m working with whoever
these people are?” Anna asked. “Do they own Parke Cars?”


“You really don’t feel any different?” Kelly
asked.


“No. Why should I?”


He thought a moment, put an arm around her
shoulder and led her to the front passenger door. He opened it, sat
her down and flipped down the sun visor.


“Go ahead,” Kelly said, taking a step back,
gesturing to the mirror.


Anna looked confused, but reached up.


“Is there something wrong with my face?”


Kelly just shook his head and pointed to the
mirror again.


She took a deep breath and opened it. Anna
screamed.


“What’s wrong with my eyes? What did you do
to me? What did you do?” Anna leapt from the seat, clawing at the
air until she caught Kelly on the neck. He backed away until he
came up against a dilapidated garage. Kelly caught her hand before
she could scratch him again, but she doubled him over with a knee
to the balls.


Israel grabbed her from behind, spinning her
away in a bear hug and pinning her arms to her chest. She kicked at
the air, screaming like an animal.


“I think we can trust her for now,” he said.
Kelly duck-walked over from his bent over stance until he could
lean on the car door. Fingers of pain gripped from his groin to the
underside of his stomach; nausea crept up the back of his brain. He
sat in the passenger seat, waiting for the slow-drumming ache to
subside.


“You all right?” Israel was still holding
her, but she sagged in his arms, like her bones had turned to
rubber.


“What did you do to me?” Kelly heard her
mumble over and over.


“She has every right to be angry,” Kelly
said. “Hell, I’m pissed too. I didn’t sign on for any of this,
either.”


“Why don’t you skillets just quit and go
home?” Kelly peaked around the side of the car and saw Taze. He’d
forgotten about him. Kelly thought a moment. What was he doing?
None of this was worth it. Risking his life wasn’t part of the job
description. Maybe he should just go back…


Where? Home? Home was gone. Somebody
claiming to be him had seen to that. Kelly had a feeling this was
all tied together, that if he didn’t see it through something truly
terrible would happen. What role he would play in preventing this
disaster or whatever it was remained to be seen, but this all went
far beyond Stout Roost.


“‘lo?” Israel said. “You
with us?”


“Yeah.” Kelly stood. There was a distant
ache still in the pit of his stomach. “It’s late. We need to get
back to the hotel.”


***


The Old Man clenched the remote in his hand.
He didn’t understand this show. Not because of the language, he
actually spoke fluent Spanish, but it was completely
unintelligible.


The little Mexican (he was actually half
Mexican and from Denver) rode a bike into a giant cake that just so
happened to be setting out in the street. The whole thing toppled
over with him half inside it. He fell on his butt in the street and
swiped the cake out of his eyes and ran his tongue across his thick
mustache as the camera pulled back to reveal two bronze-skinned
models in bikinis and high heels, one of them holding a beach
ball.


“Oh ChíChé!” they giggled in unison,
bending over to kiss him on either cheek. He smiled and shrugged
his shoulders.


The Old Man flicked off the television and
slammed the remote down. How were they supposed to compete with
that? It made absolutely no sense. He was Curly without Larry and
Moe, Oliver Hardy without Stan Laurel. And most of all he was
without talent. He had none of the charisma of the Three Stooges or
Laurel and Hardy. It wasn’t quantifiable why anyone would like such
a show.


The same could be said
about The Ghost Toucher
but he could hold his tongue about shows on his
own network.


“Sir, someone is here to see you? A
Gunner?”


That stupid name never ceased to annoy the
Old Man. He took a deep breath and cleared his throat, careful not
to let any of his agitation creep into his voice. Abigail wasn’t
the intended target of his anger.


“Send him in.” He dimmed the lights. It
helped the impending migraine about to walk through the door.


A moment later a tall, mid thirtyish man in
a tan suit with his hair unkempt in a bright yellow tie with the
knot loose down to his chest strolled in. Same attitude as always,
like he owned everything he set his eyes upon and hadn’t needed to
lift a finger to earn it. The Old Man was bothered mostly this man
was his own son.


“Why are you here?” he said.


“Dad. Chill. Just here to give you a prog
report.” He pronounced ‘report’ without the ‘t’, like it was
French.


He looked into the same
ice blue eyes he stared at in the mirror every morning. What was
missing with this boy? How had he been able to become a captain of
industry but his own son was a steaming pile of… of
this whose greatest
strength was sabotage?


“I told you to give me those on the secure
line.”


“Hey, sorry for wanting to see my old man.”
He smiled. “I miss you.”


“Oh really? Is that why you never come by to
see your mother? ‘What’s her name and how much do you need?’ is a
better question. But then again, we’ve asked and answered that one
before.” The old man put up a hand. “This time I don’t want to
know.”


There was something different about the boy.
He looked the same weight as he’d been, his hair was still stupid.
Maybe he’d been working out more?


You wouldn’t be able to tell it by looking,
but the Old Man was sick. His son wasn’t. At least not
physically.


“It’s not like that this
time. By the way, that new chick in the accounting department
is hot. What’s
her story?”


“You don’t seriously believe I’d know who
you’re talking about. There’s only one thing you can do for the
Network and you’re already doing it. Now what’s the report?”


“Oh, so you do want it.” The younger man
tried giving his father the stare down. Loser as always as his eyes
fell in his lap. “Um, my moles are saying they’re starting to get
close. They haven’t found him yet, but they’ve gotten a couple
clues.”


“And what are you doing about it? Or are you
here again with another problem?”


“Well I got a couple ideas. Plus I still
have my guy in pursuit.”


“For your sister’s sake, pray your guy finds
them. Need I remind you how important it is for Stout Roost to stay
‘lost’.”


“Pop-Pop-Pop, don’t worry about that. Stout
has no way to reach the only woman he ever cared about. Taken care
of.”


“Hm.” The Old Man didn’t know what ‘taken
care of’ meant and didn’t want to know. So long as she wasn’t dead
he would live with it.


“Now the other reason I
came—” his son pulled something out of his jacket pocket. Post-it
notes. “I’ve been studying this stuff and I know I got the goods.
Gimme a shot at The Ghost
Toucher. I can do it.”


The Old Man laughed.


“Son, no. While it would give me so much
pleasure to see you fall on your face again, unfortunately by
virtue of having my name associated with it, my reputation would be
the one you’d be ruining. Reality television is dead. The market is
saturated and people are going to want real television again.”


His son bristled, but made no complaint. He
knew better. The Old Man sat back and waited for him to change the
subject, while pondering what was different with him. It was his
skin. It looked different. Not tan, but not the right shade. Like
his DNA had been infused with something Mediterranean. Had to be
make-up.


“How is Mom, by the way? Still have that
goiter?”


“Bigger than ever. Did you send her a
card?”


“Oh, her
birthday. I
forgot.”


Typical. What the boy lacked in
follow-through he compounded with lack of focus. Maybe the real
difference between the two of them was that he had grown up with
nothing and so appreciated everything. Maybe he had made a mistake
by laying the world at his son’s feet. But then why was his sister
so different?


“I guess I better get going.”


“Make a beeline out of here. Speak to no
one. Understood?”


“Yeah.”


His son shuffled out, filled with none of
the plume he had come in with. Now was not the time for his son to
be filled with a hope he was expecting his father to underwrite.
And just to add a little insult to injury…


“Abigail, Mr. Gunner is on his way out.
Could you see to it that security escorts him to the curb?”


“Absolutely, sir.”


He laced his fingers and enjoyed a
chuckle.


***


Dick! Gunner wanted to deck those security
guards after they grabbed him. He was on his way out anyway; they
didn’t have to get rough. But one of them was huge. If he could
have taken the small one out the other would have folded him up
like a pretzel. And they set him down in a puddle by the curb,
getting his Ninos all messed up.


Gunner quickly dismissed them as he headed
down the street. They’d get theirs ‘cause he was gonna run this
place someday and he’d remember their names. Steckler and
Oliver.


He had to get this makeup
off and quick. Maybe he was allergic to it or something, but
it itched. He had
to have something on so the Old Man wouldn’t see what he’d done. Or
rather, what that witch bitch had done to him. He only wanted a
quick and easy way to contact the dead. She’d slipped him a micky
or something and he’d woke up with these weird tattoos all over his
body. Lucky for her she hadn’t taken anything from his apartment,
but that wouldn’t help when he caught up with her. If he could find
a two hundred year old dead guy in the netherworld he could find
her.


Stepped into a Starbucks and raced for the
restroom. Some douchebag was playing with himself at the urinal.
Had to keep it in check; guy was just taking a leak. Gunner ignored
him and began examining his face in the mirror, looking for
tell-tale marks of an allergic reaction or something. No swelling
or redness.


Shit. Not the makeup—the fucking tattoos!
The double lines streaking across his forehead and down either side
of the bridge of his nose were bleeding through. How could that
happen? They were only tats. Gunner’s skin felt hot. He began
scratching his wrists and looked down to see the ink beginning to
show on the backs of his hands.


He had to get out of here. Hop into an ice
cold bath and think this thing through. “You almost done?” the guy
said behind him.


Gunner said something. He wasn’t sure what
because his head felt like it was about to explode, but he knew
he’d just hit the guy. He pushed his way through the small lunch
crowd and back outside, falling into a cab that happened to be
passing by. Something was wrong. Other than tats that couldn’t be
covered up by makeup. Something was very wrong.


***


LaGina subconsciously twirled the invite in
her hands. She’d meant to toss the thing on her way out of the
office, but had forgotten about it. She was somewhat intrigued, but
knew her judgment in men wasn’t the greatest.


She wasn’t sure what to make of Kelly
Greene. She’d done a little background checking and found he was
unmarried and had no kids. But who was the woman and the two girls
in the picture? And why was that other guy in it, for that matter?
Maybe he was the single brother and they were the married couple.
But wouldn’t he have been next to his wife instead of Greene?


Maybe that was Greene’s family and they had
died. She’d checked the newspapers’ archives, but if she wanted to
read anything over ninety days old she’d have to pay for it.
Considering LaGina didn’t know if it would help her even if he had
murdered his family she just dropped it. There had to be another
angle.


The woman in front of her had on a pair of
black calfskin boots that easily cost more than two of LaGina’s
paychecks. Too bad the thigh length tan coat didn’t match. She
wouldn’t make that mistake if she ever could afford boots like
those.


But that couldn’t happen if she couldn’t
find Stout. She had to find evidence they were hiding him. The
class action suit was stunted until they could find him and the
Network’s lawyers had blocked their attempt to force his mother to
give a DNA sample.


She looked at her invite again as the woman
took her cup of whatever away. LaGina’s mind drifted back to
Gunner. She’d watched him go into the executive wing. He probably
was someone important. A producer or something.


Just then some jerk pushed his way through
the line, knocking someone up against her, pushing her into the
counter. A lady screamed and a second later the bell rang as the
person went outside. LaGina pushed back and tried to look through
the window to see whoever it was. She just saw a bobbing head and a
then the sign of a taxi cab.


“I am so sorry about that, Ma’am,” the
teenaged-looking barrister with the stud through her lower lip
said. She laughed a little nervously and bent to pick up something.
She stood and held up LaGina’s invitation. “Do you need this?”



OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












 



 



 



 



 



Eye contact


 



 



 



 



 



 



“Master, I can’t see much.”


“I know. She is weak and will not last
long.” The Master glided about the room as if pacing. “Just tell me
if it is there.”


“I don’t know. You said it could look like
anybody. How would I tell?”


“Its eyes. You will see it if it is
there.”


Lewis had to wait until
she looked at each man in turn. He focused and the picture in his
mind cleared some. He couldn’t hear anything. The connection with
her was weak.
Shame. She probably would die several times before she died for
good. Maybe he would see her on the other side someday. Except he’d
be Naked and she wouldn’t.


There was some sort of discussion going on.
One of them seemed to have something about his eyes. If she would
just keep her head still…


Yes! He could see it now. Lewis couldn’t
identify what it was, but there was definitely something there not
in the others. The people were even in a hotel—Lewis saw the name
just over the clerk behind a big, semi-circular counter.


“Master, it is him. I even know where they
are. Would you like us to go there?”


“No.” Lewis felt the master’s warmth upon
his back. “You are nearly Naked Before Me. All of you should aspire
to be like your brother.”


Lewis beamed from the
master’s praise. He wished he could open his eyes to see the faces
of the others, especially Cindy because he wanted to impress her.
But how awesome was it to be complimented by a god?


***


Gunner picked up the phone on the third
buzz. He flipped it open and clicked on the text message he’d just
gotten. It was a simple address and nothing else. Normally, he
would have been annoyed and deleted the message, but the sender’s
phone number told him something he needed to know. Getting rid of
the first detective had been easy. These clowns would be no sweat,
either.


He strode back into his room, texting a
phone number back and clapped the phone shut before tossing it onto
the bed. Gunner knew a guy who knew a guy who would put his contact
in touch with some fine imported goods. He was a rich kid so Gunner
knew he had to deliver something above and beyond to get him
going.


Gunner picked up the silver jewelry box on
his dresser next to an onyx container. He probably shouldn’t leave
that container there, but what was the harm? The Old Man would have
wanted him to put it in a safety deposit box or something gay, but
even if somebody broke into his place they’d never know what it
was.


He opened the jewelry box. There wasn’t
anything in it, but it was very important, nonetheless. He thought
about the address and bowed his head, holding the jewelry box up
and then set it down to go back to his robes. He had to finish
getting ready for his party.


***


She’d cried all day. Mel couldn’t console
her, she just wouldn’t stop. She wouldn’t even eat. Now all of a
sudden she perked up and began pointing like a maniac. She cradled
the cheap little doll he’d bought her at the gas station.


Mel started the truck and put it in gear. A
Burger King was coming up on the left and he looked at her. She
licked her lips, looking nervously back and forth between the sign
and him.


“You want something?” he asked with a smile.
He couldn’t stand BK, but she wasn’t picky.


She looked like she was thinking, drool
running down her chin and then nodded. Mel rubbed his side as he
pulled in the lot. It felt like he’d broken a rib from a coughing
fit and his knee was completely locked up.


That’s my girl, he thought.


***


Anna just wanted to go home. But she was
just so tired. Mr. Israel and Mr. Greene had apologized over and
over until she thought they were probably okay. She had no idea
what happened to her eyes if it wasn’t them. The only thing she’d
had to eat today was that burger and fries during lunch. Maybe it
was food poisoning. Maybe she needed to go to a hospital. Her
stomach felt fine—maybe she could just take a nap first.


They’d decided to split up into their rooms
for the night. Mr. Israel had convinced her to stay. There did seem
to be something dangerous going on. He’d taken her to the room and
she’d called her roommate after he left.


“Oh yeah,” Christy’d said when she asked her
to take care of the dogs. “You got a mean one, huh?” meaning a date
she wanted to go to bed with. Anna’s first instinct was to say no,
but it was a much simpler explanation than the truth. “Well make
that protection connection!” Christy was good for corny sayings
like disease awareness was just recently en vogue.


Anna got off the phone before she said too
much. She didn’t want to admit, but she did feel a little
different. Bigger, somehow. Like she could look outside and see for
miles or touch with someone else’s hands.


She didn’t want to think about it. Just get
in bed as soon as possible and put today behind her. She made a
quick stop in the bathroom, taking care to avoid looking in the
mirror. Whatever was going on with her eyes she could wait until a
doctor gave her a shot.


Anna went to the door and cracked it open.
Mr. Israel had his back to her. He had something in his hand, it
looked like a squeeze bottle maybe. He was spraying the contents on
the floor in wide arcs. She pulled the door closed just before he
turned in her direction and a moment later she could hear the spray
hitting the door.


What was he doing?


She plopped down on the couch and folded her
arms. Was it cold in here? Anna had felt like this when she woke up
in the trunk. Maybe she should go to the hospital.


 



Israel knocked on the door before letting
himself in.


“Everybody decent?”


Kelly had just watched Taze snort a rail of
something white. He didn’t know his drugs so it could have been
anything. Taze had been so casual about it, even offered him some.
Kelly had politely refused.


Now he was holding a joint loosely between
his lips. By luck, this was a non-smoking room and Kelly had
avoided the argument by pointing to the sign on the door. It struck
him as ironic that there was no sign prohibiting illicit drug
use.


“Yeah, I’m tight,” Taze said, the joint
flopping up and down. “Just about to break out for a spliff.” He
took the joint out of his mouth and pointed the butt-end to Israel.
“Partake?”


“Pass.” Israel stepped aside to let him out.
Once the door was shut he asked Kelly, “So what’s the plan?”


“Me?” Kelly said. “This whole thing’s your
boondoggle. You don’t have a plan?”


“Nope. The police are going to arrest you on
the spot—we’re both wanted, there are people trying to kill or
kidnap us and I’m pretty sure someone at your network had something
to do with Stout Roost’s disappearance.”


“Really? What makes you say that?”


“Well the police already called—”


“No. I meant Stout.”


“Oh. We’re being followed. That little girl
at the gas station and someone else.”


“How do you know? I haven’t seen anyone. And
that girl was only, what, three? I doubt she’s a danger.”


“She is. Look, you’re going to see people
who aren’t people at all. Tools, weapons sent from the other side.
The living on the other side can’t just walk over here—that’s like
an astronaut stepping out of the space shuttle without a suit.”


“So we have to be on the lookout for tools
that look like people?”


“I know some of them. And no, not all of
them are people.”


“So what kind of weapon is she?”


“Think of her more as a detonator. She
attaches herself to someone and turns him into a kind of bomb.”


“Do you think those diffoid guys are
weapons?”


“No.” Israel shook his head. “They’re human
with something else mixed in. I don’t know what. I’ve never seen
anything like them before.”


“What kind of bomb? I mean, do they explode
or something?”


“You don’t wanna know.”


Kelly thought a moment then let out a deep
breath.


“I suppose we have to do the unexpected. I
say we find Gayle Hills’ house and wait for him. Go on the
offensive.”


“And then what?”


“We make him talk.”


“How?”


“I don’t know. Waterboard him or
something.”


“Yikes. You’re pretty hardcore. You got the
stomach for that?”


“I have to. We have to do something to
figure our way out of this thing. I have to keep him away from my
mother’s house. He’s probably the one who had mine burned down. We
can make him confess at least.”


“Why would he do that?”


“Because he hates me as much as I hate
him.”


“I’m not so sure about that. Sure he
kidnapped us, but it seemed more like a business move to me.”


“Yeah, but until we know his partner’s angle
I say we stay on this track.”


Israel headed for the door.


“Well I’m tuckered.” Taze was waiting
outside the door when he opened it. They shouldered past one
another and Kelly thought they gave each other the eye.


Taze promptly pulled out his hand mirror,
laid it on the counter and poured out a little pile of white powder
onto it from a baggie. He chopped it into three smaller piles and
made them into neat lines with a black AMEX card.


Kelly felt like he should say something. In
practice, he believed it was a person’s own business what they did
to their bodies, but to see it in person… And why was he doing so
much?


And how did he get a black AMEX?


Kelly passed by as casually as he could,
spying the name on it where it lay on the counter. William K. Goode
III.


Nah, he couldn’t be
related. Not the Goode family, could he?


He was high as a kite and probably wouldn’t
remember if Kelly did ask. Why not?


“So where you from, Taze?”


The skinny, younger man looked up from his
work. His eyes were red-rimmed and bloodshot.


“Oh, skillet, all over. I mean, I was born
here, but I lived in Greece, Japan, Italy, Topeka, Dublin,
y’know.”


“What, was your father in the military or
something?”


“Nah, not
my pops.” Taze rolled
his eyes. “Junior was a company man.”


“Oh, what company?”


“Don’t act like you don’t know, homie. My
granddad’s more famous than the one-dollar bill.”


Kelly shook his head, maintaining his blank
expression. Taze let out a long sigh, rolling his eyes again.


“Bill Goode from Goode’s, y’know the
supermarket chain? Inventor of the potato chip?


“Oh, that Bill Goode. Man, he’d be well
over a hundred years old now. How’s he your
grandfather?”


“I never met him or nothin’, but he had my
da—Junior—late. Like in his sixties or seventies. He’d had a family
already but they died or somethin’. Junior didn’t get married until
he was seventy.”


Kelly had never seen Bill Goode, Junior, but
if he was in his sixties when Taze was born he had to be in the
neighborhood of ninety by now.


“Skillet, you okay? Where you at?”


“Sorry. I was thinking—lost in a
thought.”


“I get that sometimes. When I’m high,
y’know?” He pointed to the last rail left on the mirror. “Sure you
don’t wanna get down?”


“Thanks man, but no. I’m going to turn in
for an early start.”


“No probs. I think I’ll stay up tonight.
Hey, you think we gon’ get into somethin’ tomorrow like in
Ferndale?”


“I hope not.” Kelly rubbed a hand over his
face. “I never want to see anything like that ever again.”


“Alright, dog. Sleep tight.”


“You too. Well, y’know.”


Kelly hated not having anything clean to
wear. Tomorrow would be the third day straight he’d be wearing
these clothes. Even if they had to go to a Target he had to get
something else to put on.


He went into the bedroom and shut the door.
The sudden quiet was unsettling. He had a looming feeling something
was about to happen so he left the door open a peak so a sliver of
light came in. Kelly checked under the bed and in the tiny closet
but he knew the monsters were out now. They were out there
somewhere, looking for him. He collapsed on the bed, suddenly
exhausted and with barely enough strength left to not leave his
feet hanging over the edge.


***


Jemen drove around aimlessly. She didn’t
know where to search to find him. Right now Two was stationed
outside of police headquarters in Detroit. Burning down Kelly
Greene’s house was an accident, but may have been a blessing in
disguise on the off chance he did turn himself in. She somehow
doubted it, but anything was possible in this world. In no other
place had she seen so many coincidences, things that had occurred
that could never happen again. Chance encounters between long lost
loved ones, accidents that took the lives of would-be murderers, a
poor man’s fortune being made in an instant.


Divine providence was commonplace here.
Surely the same would happen for her if she were to indeed save the
world.


She laughed at her own inside joke. Bhuul
was no goddess. A whore amongst the Greaters, she was not one to be
worshipped, except by her whorish followers.


Jemen heard the beep of the fuel gauge,
indicating she needed gas soon. There was a Sunoco gas station up
ahead and she flipped on her turn signal. She pulled in, passing by
a sickly-looking sallow-faced man with a hideous child in the
passenger seat of his pick-up truck before stopping at a pump. She
shook her head. Even the coin of divinity had an ugly side.


Oodles hopped out of her lap and she left
the boys in the backseat, cradling her belly as she walked inside
the store to pay for gas. Jemen stood in a short line, eyeing the
rows of cigarettes behind and above the attendant. Artie had some
in the glove compartment. Their smell was lovely and she had chewed
them up when she was beginning her gestation with Two. Had she
known she could have purchased more of these she would have had
them with Three as well. She looked away to her car outside and saw
the boys were excited about something. Imperfect as they were, they
had one definite benefit. They were like hounds in their ability to
sense things she could not. She’d learned very quickly not to
ignore them.


It appeared as if they were watching the
truck she’d passed by. More specifically the little girl not in a
child seat, but standing and looking out the window. She looked at
the child and realized it was not providence that created her but
rather the crooked hand of man.


Perhaps she would have her share of divinity
tonight! If that child was what she thought it was it was probably
searching for Kelly as well. The man climbed back in his truck and
Jemen realized she would have to risk not filling her tank.


“Hey Buddy,” the attendant behind the
counter said. “You need a fill-up or what?”


“I am no man,” Jemen replied as she headed
out the door. “I am a Greater,” she spoke to herself, cradling her
belly as she headed to the car.


***


Martin Hoops’ shipment was due to come in
today. He didn’t care whether they were going to eat them, turn
them into cure-alls or make-up. It was two hundred K, easy. He
strolled out of the coffee shop, his chubby hands shoved into his
deep, empty pockets and hailed a taxi that blew past. But his
herpes hadn’t flared up today so he didn’t mind.


He spotted a taxi on the other side of a red
light up the street. Right in front of him a blue hair was trying
to parallel park a giant powder blue Crown Vic. He waved a hand to
the taxi as he stepped out on the curb, hoping the driver wouldn’t
ignore him. The blue hair alternated between stomping on the gas
and the brake, her head bobbling as she lurched ever closer to the
Mercury Cougar behind her.


How long was this light? Martin kept his arm
up. Some tall fatso in a Member’s Only jacket bumped him and
continued up the street even though the sidewalk was wide enough
for the both of them to walk with their arms stretched out and not
touch. Some people. Martin just stepped a foot or two into the
street. What was taking that light so long?


His calm demeanor was starting to slip. He
waved his arm faster as if that would somehow hurry the cab. The
blue hair across the street revved the car in park then lurched in
reverse again.


Cross traffic stopped up the street and the
taxi crawled down the two lane street. Martin’s gut told him to
stay put but he wanted to get out of here and down to the dock. The
taxi slowed as the brown-skinned bearded driver came into view and
Martin’s smile of relief froze on his face as something large to
his right filled his peripheral vision.


Martin turned to see the blue hair just as
the bumper of the Crown Vic crushed his shin. He slapped his palms
down on the hood as he thought he saw her large, fish-goggled eyes
locked on him as she continued to run him over.


He fell to the ground and the tire ran
diagonally across his midsection crushing everything inside him
from his hip to the opposite shoulder. Blood erupted from his nose
and mouth and in the few seconds before he died, in the midst of
excruciating pain he heard her stomp and go action as she reversed
again and the taxi continued past.


***


A myoklonic twitch woke Kelly up. He slid
his palm across his chest and he was on the verge of falling back
asleep when he saw the silhouette of a man sitting in a chair,
facing him.


“Hello?”


“I couldn’t tell you everything I knew at
the time. The Board is trying to play this as close to the vest as
possible.”


“Mr. Brimmer?” Kelly could only see the top
of his bald head in the moonlight coming through the window shade.
He looked like he had something sticking through his head.


“The Board has already
been contacted by the lead attorney for the mothers. They are suing
us in toto.”
Brimmer sat back, putting his face in the light. He was dead. A
ghost—a crowbar sticking out of his head behind either ear. “I’ll
be up front with you. This whole child support mess would be
nothing under normal circumstances. When we first signed Stout to
do The Ghost Toucher we got him for a pittance. The stock was in the toilet and
that was practically all he asked for. I mean, we couldn’t give it
away at the time and he asked for twenty percent plus scale. We
have every suspicion he bought an additional twenty percent over
the last four years through various channels.”


“So that would give him controlling
interest?” Kelly asked, propping himself up on one elbow.


“Yes, the savvy bastard. And if he’s dead
his stock rolls over to his children. We tried to get him to sign a
clause that would default his stock back to the Network in the
event of his death and his beneficiaries would get a payout of the
value, but he balked.”


“Wouldn’t that negate his controlling
interest if forty percent of your stock gets divided over fourteen
people?”


“Under normal circumstances, yes. And that
wouldn’t have been so bad. But in an effort to get this whole mess
settled our attorneys approached the families and offered a
settlement. They turned it down.”


“Why would they do that?”


“Because they have a deal with someone else.
Someone who is paying for those high-powered attorneys. Someone
who’d have special interest in controlling at least forty percent
of the Network. I think it’s Unicero.”


“The Spanish station?”
Kelly asked. Brimmer nodded. “I love that ChíChé show.”


“Me too. Everybody does. Unicero already has
eleven percent. Combined with that forty they’d be the rulers of
the roost.”


“Mr. Brimmer, could I ask—what
happened?”


“Oh, you mean this?” he
gestured to his head. “Thought I could eat my cake and have it too.
It’s kind of funny; I was there at the start of it all and now that
I’ve

crossed—” he wiggled both index and middle fingers “—it’s kind of
disappointing.”


Brimmer stood. Kelly couldn’t see any legs,
but he heard clacking on the floor as if he were stepping on
hardwood. Kelly thought he should say more but didn’t know what. An
invisible goat bleated before he disappeared through the door.


Kelly wanted to think about what he’d just
learned, but he found himself unable to keep his eyes open. He
closed them and slumped back onto the bed in less than twenty
seconds.


***


Vosloo had had a good life in Lebanon, he
wished he’d never left. But hair treatment at home was at least
twenty years behind what they were doing in America. As he sat at
the light, poking at his tingling scalp, wondering when the
treatments would begin showing results, he didn’t see the giant
approach.


He knocked on the window and Vosloo jumped.
He had to have come from somewhere behind his cab. There was a Jeep
or something with its blinkers on in the middle lane behind him;
his car must have stalled.


“Would you follow that truck for me?” the
guy said. He had really long, thick dark hair. Vosloo had hair like
that when he was a boy until his mother had cut it off. It hadn’t
been right since. Vosloo rolled down his window.


“What?” Vosloo wondered what he used on
it.


“That truck.” The guy pointed with a ratdog
in his hand at a truck two vehicles up and one over. He was
cradling a low hanging beer gut in the other. “Would you follow
it?”


Vosloo had no interest in giving this freak
a ride, no matter how nice his hair was. He’d had a pretty good
night, anyway.


“It depends on what kind of dog that is,
guy.”


“I am not a guy,” the guy said. “And what
about my dog?”


“Is it the kind that shits?”


“What?”


The light had turned green and the cars in
front of him had already pulled away. Vosloo stepped on the gas,
but the idiot in front of him stopped, forcing Vosloo to stomp on
his brakes to keep from rear-ending him.


This time he did see the big guy approach,
but he was coming up very fast. Vosloo felt a surge of panic,
throwing the cab in reverse but a vehicle settled in behind the
cab, trapping him.


“Go around!” he turned around and shouted,
but he could see that the old man behind the wheel hadn’t seen or
heard him. He started to roll up his window when the guy was
suddenly there.


He reached through the glass, his mighty
hand clasping around Vosloo’s neck. Vosloo felt a brief, stinging
pressure across his chest and lap as the seat belt snapped and he
was terrifyingly weightless a moment before crashing into a wooden
telephone pole.


 



Vosloo woke up. This was wonderful where
ever he was. He felt better than he ever had before. The street was
strange, though. No cars for one and it looked like it was paved
with cobblestone. They didn’t even use that back home anymore. His
feet felt wrong so he looking down and saw he didn’t have any—he
was floating! This was great! Vosloo passed by a building and saw
someone with a thick head of long, wavy chestnut hair.


It was him.


This place was too good to
be true. There were some people up ahead a ways. Vosloo
floated in their
direction. They were all gathered around this building, trying to
force their way inside. The architecture here was very strange. As
he got closer to the people he saw they had on strange clothes. It
was like something out of one of those children’s books with that
cat that wore that hat.


He wanted to talk to someone to find out
what was going on. No one looked at him, but every time he got
close to one he or she would wave a hand at him like they were
shooing a fly. Finally he settled just outside the crowd and waited
to see what they were waiting for.


A moment later a man fell out the
window.


***


“Ay yo, homie, wake up.” Kelly felt a hand
on his leg. He sat up in the dark and could barely make out Taze’s
silhouette.


“What do you want?”

“Somethin’s goin’ down next door.”


“Go for a walk or something. You’re
high.”


“No. I mean, yeah, I am. But for real doe,
there is somethin’ goin’ on over there. On the rilla.”


Kelly climbed out of bed. He didn’t think
anything had happened; nothing had happened to the two of them.
Probably best to check. He could hop back in the bed in a few
minutes.


Still groggy, he weaved his way from the
bedroom, through the living room and out the front door. He turned
and Taze bumped into him.


Israel’s door was open. Suddenly awake,
Kelly rushed in and ran into the bedroom. He threw the light on and
didn’t know whether to scream or throw up from the smell. He
clapped a hand over his mouth and tried his best not to do
either.


***


Four minutes, thirty-eight seconds
earlier—


 



Mel was exhausted. He didn’t want to take
another step. His whole body hurt. But she smiled at him and he was
moving again.


He should be in the hospital. This had to be
some kind of flu or something. He was burning up. Was burping a
symptom? They were almost there now. As soon as they were done,
though he was heading to the ER.


Done with what?


Mel looked over at the fat little girl on
his hip. Man, what an ugly kid. She was breathing out of her mouth
and drooling, her eyes locked forward. She kept kicking her fat
little legs, her heels digging into his stomach and back like she
was spurring a horse.


Where was she taking him?


That was an odd thing to
think. How could she be taking him anywhere? He was the one doing all the walking. They stopped
in front of a door in the long hallway. The sharp ache in his knees
and back sat up like a good doggy and begged.


He waited as she looked back and forth
between this door and the next one over. Finally she bucked her
hips, grunting for him to move over to the next door. He went over
and raised a hand to knock.


“Hey, is this where your mommy lives?” It
all made sense to him now. Of course the kid wanted to get back to
her mother as soon as possible. All of a sudden Mel’s aches and
pains didn’t seem so bad (though he did have a monster fart
cramping up his stomach). She’d been scared all this time and he’d
finally brought her to her mother. All that business before, he’d
just been confused.


She was smiling again, but kind of like she
did before she ate. Mel was glad he wouldn’t have to feed her
anything else. He knocked and waited.


After the fifth time knocking, they both
were growing impatient. Mel tried the handle but it didn’t budge.
She even leaned in to pound on the door with a pudgy fist. Sick of
waiting, Mel lowered his shoulder and rammed into the door. He was
a big guy (though noticeably smaller to anyone who knew him) so it
gave way pretty easily. His shoulder made a nasty crunching sound,
but he could take it. Hell, it didn’t even hurt. Matter of fact,
nothing did. Mel only felt a growing warmth in the pit of his
stomach. It felt good to be doing something good.


He walked through the living room. Her
mother was gonna be so excited. He felt hot all of a sudden,
feverish. He stumbled and caught himself on the couch, his shoulder
making a sick, twisting sound.


The bedroom door was open. Mel passed a
mirror and saw his reflection. His skin was pasty and saggy, his
eyes bloodshot. What was worse than the flu?


Never mind. Mel went into the bedroom.
Someone was beneath the covers and she rolled over. He hated the
thought of waking her. To be honest, it was a little stalkery him
breaking in like this, even if it was to bring her kid. But he was
here now and there wasn’t any point in turning back.


The little girl pushed away from him. He set
her down and let out a deep belch. Man, that stunk. His esophagus
felt like it was on fire.


“Ma’am?” he tried to say, but his voice was
all wrong. He couldn’t even hear himself. Mel wiped the
free-flowing sweat from his face, his skin feeling thin as paper.
He stepped closer, standing over her and tried calling out to her
again, but his voice was just gone.


Mel felt something move in his stomach, felt
it clench and turn and begin inching its way up. It was giving him
a wicked case of heartburn and a bitter, acidy taste on the back of
his tongue. The last thing he heard before his head exploded was
the little girl laughing.


***


“Skillet, what
is that?” Kelly wasn’t
able to keep his gorge down after all. The stink from the bed was
awful.


Something—and someone—had melted through it.
Part of a foot teetered on the edge of a man-sized dark green,
frothy ringed ovular hole that ran diagonally across the bed. Kelly
didn’t think he could look inside, but he was reasonably certain it
went all the way to the floor. Whatever it was had eaten away the
thin carpet around the perimeter of the bed, exposing the concrete
underneath.


There were other parts
that weren’t digested (he had no idea why that word seemed to fit)—or at least
not completely. There were finger bones, a piece of scalp,
something that may have been an elbow in the green
froth.


“Whatchoo gon’ do?” He’d forgotten Taze was
there. Kelly looked at him as if he’d grown some body part a man
shouldn’t have. Taze peered into the hole with casual interest,
like some teenager on a field trip to the DIA, looking at a
painting just to pass the time. Kelly had heard prolonged oxy use
could result in the inability to feel empathy; it wouldn’t be a
surprise to learn that was one of his drugs of choice.


“Who do you think it was—the phatty or the
skinny?”


“The what?”


“The pha—oh, right. The phatty, y’know, the
girl, or the dude—the skinny.”


“Skinny? I’ve never heard that before.”


“That’s ‘cause I made it up.


“And guys are skinnies?”


“Yeah, ‘cause that’s the opposite of phatty.
‘Cept you spell it S-K-I-N-N-E-E. I mean I-E.”


“I get it. I think… I think we’d better
leave.”


Who had been in the bed was a good question.
Kelly could easily imagine either of them killing the other, though
the thought hadn’t seriously crossed his mind earlier. He thought
they could trust Anna and he thought Israel hadn’t seriously
intended to kill her. But then he thought of another question.


What if someone else had done it and they
were still here?


Kelly crouched and spun around. Taze must
have thought along the same lines because he was holding a hand
cannon and pointing it in the general direction of the doorway.


“Guess we don’t need to check under the
bed.” Kelly nodded toward the closet and Taze leveled the gun in
that direction as they approached together. Taze fired a shot and
Kelly pushed his arm away as if that would redirect the bullet.


“What the hell?” he mouthed at Taze. The
taller man looked as if he didn’t understand what he’d done wrong.
Kelly walked up to the closet and threw the door open, hoping a
dead body wouldn’t fall out.


Anna’s petite, limp body was huddled into
the corner of the closet, Taze’s bullet hole a few inches above and
to the left of her head. She had all her clothes on and Kelly
pulled her collar down to feel for a pulse in her neck. Slow, but
there.


“We’re checking out.” Kelly stood and
scooped her up. She felt heavier than he thought she should as they
hustled out of the room.



OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












 



 



 



Reach for it


 



 



 



 



LaGina rang the doorbell. Her black strappy
dress hugged her curves well, but she felt uncomfortable in it.
Maybe it was guilt at leaving the boys home with their grandmother,
but she hadn’t been out in a long time. She deserved this.


There was something about him. He was
obviously important to be able to walk right into the CEO’s office
like that. There was a cockiness and a danger in his smile and the
way he walked over and dropped the invite on her desk. Maybe
someone else would have dismissed it as arrogance, but she could
tell there was something more. She had to see what this man was all
about.


A tall blonde woman in a red strapless dress
answered the door. LaGina was a little crestfallen to see another
woman was here, but she hadn’t really known what to expect. It was
an invitation to a party. The woman was pretty and blue-eyed,
though LaGina’s natural olive tone was much better than her
artificial tan. LaGina didn’t have her smile lines either, though
they seemed around the same age. She was thin-hipped and busty
while LaGina was shapelier everywhere else.


“Hi,” the woman said, extending a hand.
LaGina matched her limp shake, not wanting to dominate. She stepped
into the apartment and the woman closed the door behind her.


“I’m Gina,” she said, but the blonde didn’t
introduce herself. Smooth jazz played in the background. There were
only a half dozen people in the great room. It had tall white walls
and a slanted ceiling. What looked like African art decorated the
walls except for the one to the left which was all glass, looking
out over the city from fifty something stories up.


From the depressions in the mauve carpet it
looked like furniture had been moved out of the room. Two couples
were standing in front of sculptures on opposite walls, apparently
discussing them. A grizzled-looking middle-aged man in an
ill-fitted cheap suit slumped in a chair at the large, dark wood
table in the center of the room. He looked lost. He stared into
space and if it weren’t for the slow up and down of his chest she
might have thought he was dead.


The woman in the red dress disappeared into
what looked like the kitchen. Maybe LaGina had gotten the wrong
impression. She expected an actual party. This looked like it was
going to be a séance.


A tall man walked into the room in an all
white thing cinched at the waist with a black rope. The upper part
had long slits up the sleeves, exposing well-muscled arms. He had
weird tattoos on his body everywhere she could see skin, including
his face. It took a moment in the candle light, but she realized
this was Gunner. She had the sudden feeling of déjà vu, as if she
had seen this face before but couldn’t recall where she would have
seen him outside the office.


“Hey!” He clapped his hands once and
everyone but the man sitting down turned. “Everyone’s supposed to
be seated, Linda!”


“Sorry Gun!” Linda came out of the kitchen,
holding a fondue dish.


“Linda, that’s for later!” He waved a hand
at her and she turned around and took it back.


He turned around and his eyes locked on
LaGina.


“Ms. Densmore.” He took a
few long strides over to her and took her hands into his own. “It’s
so good to see
you. I’m glad you could come. Please.” He gestured to the table and
followed her there. Linda had an almost predatory look on her face
as she passed.


He seated her across from him and Linda
scooted into the empty seat beside him and glared at LaGina. The
young couple in the two seats next to her were giggling and
whispering. The young man saw Gunner eyeing them and the smile
dropped from his face.


“Can we do introductions?” an older woman on
the other side of the table said.


“Yeah, Gun,” Linda said. “This is supposed
to be fun. Let’s everyone trade names.”


Gunner made a face, but quickly
recovered.


“Yes, yes. Good idea. I’m Gunner as you all
know. I communicate with the alternatively living. You all have
been invited here as my special guests.”


He nodded to the older man next to him who’d
already been at the table.


“My name’s Henry Quint. I’m looking for my
daughter.” He dug a laminated picture out of his jacket pocket of
an eight-ish looking girl with short curly hair and large dark
eyes. If that was his most recent picture from the looks of the
style of her clothes and hair she’d been missing a long, long time.
“Please, if any of you know anything that can help me find my
Katie…” The women in the room collectively awed, LaGina
included.


He teared up and the woman next to him put a
comforting hand on his forearm. Gunner put a hand on the older
man’s shoulder and LaGina could see real sincerity in his eyes.


“Well my name is Rachel,” the young woman
holding Henry’s forearm said. “I’m here with my husband, Bill—we’ve
been married two weeks!” Bill shifted as a smattering of applause
went around the table. “We’re here visiting my in-laws.”


Bill just shrugged and said, “I’m Bill,”
before turning to LaGina.


“I’m Gina. I work for the Network. I’m in
the controller’s office.” She didn’t know what else to do, so she
waved and immediately felt stupid.


“Oh, you probably see stars all the time!”
an older woman next to Linda said.


“Have you met Stout?” Bill asked. Rachel’s
happy mask expression slipped and she shot Bill a dirty look.


“Actually, I don’t typically meet the
actors, but I’ve seen Stout Roost a time or two,” LaGina lied.


“I love that show,” the older man on
LaGina’s other side said.


“James,” the older woman said with a disapproving look on her
face.


“Oh hush, Phyllis,” James said. “It’s about
as good as any one of your soaps. And how many times can one woman
be kidnapped by the same man anyway?”


Something about Gunner’s expression
suggested he was uncomfortable or annoyed with the
conversation.


“Phyllis… James… why don’t we go ahead and
get started?”


Everyone shifted around in their chairs, but
didn’t complain. Gunner bowed his head as if concentrating.


“I’m Linda, by the way,” Linda whispered and
gave a little wave.


“Shouldn’t we hold hands or something?”
Phyllis asked.


“Yes.” Gunner didn’t look up. “That would be
good.”


After everyone was holding hands (Rachel
eyed Bill’s hand holding LaGina’s), Gunner said, “Do not be afraid
of anything you’re about to see or hear. I am your guide and I will
protect you. Anything that may wish to do you harm has to pass
through me first and I will severe the connection immediately
before that happens.”


LaGina was nervous, but she thought Gunner
looked a little worried as well.


 



Okay, it was officially his first time doing
this, but Gunner was relatively sure he knew what he was doing. The
witch had managed to avoid being located by the detective he had
hired but she was just as tied into the dead as he was. It was
ironic that he would use them to find her. Gunner just needed to
borrow a little life energy from these suckers and finding her
would be easy. They’d all be fine; maybe a couple hours shaved off
the end of their lives, maybe they’d get sicker more often than
they were used to, but no one would drop over. At least he hoped.
That’s why Gunner had specifically targeted out-of-towners, except
for Linda and Gina. They were both hot and he wanted to hook up
some three-way action.


He began to ‘concentrate’.
He’d take what he needed in a few short seconds, but he had to give
everybody a show so they had something to tell their friends and
families about. Gunner kind of wished he’d been around in the olden
days before people knew ghouls and ghosts were real. Now all the
mystery was spoiled. It took something nobody had ever seen before
to get even a remote amount of interest. The psychic business had
taken a huge tumble now that anyone could communicate with the
dead. You had to hustle to get people through the door; it was no
longer just a walk-in business. You had to be the act. It was no longer enough
to say you were speaking with the dead, you had to show it. Stout
Roost had seen to all that. Now ghosts were mundane, another victim
of ‘reality’ TV.


Gunner snuck a peak at LaGina. God, she was
hot. He’d gotten them all here on the false pretense of contacting
some long lost family member or friend except her. He had a thing
for exotic-looking chicks and he’d made a beeline for her yesterday
before he’d seen the Old Man. He couldn’t think up an excuse to
talk to her and found himself blabbing about the party and before
he realized it he was handing her one of the fresh invites he’d had
made at FedEx Kinko’s. He hoped the ceremony didn’t scare her off,
but he had to do this if he was going to have anything like a
normal life again.


Truth be told it was virtually impossible to
contact one particular spirit. Maybe a certain kind of spirit. Like
someone who had been a lawyer in life, but if you were looking for
Johnny Cochrane forget about it. The other side was a very big
place. The trick was opening the door just a little bit. Let the
suckers see just enough. They’d all see a spirit and think it was
the one they were looking for and before they saw anymore he’d slam
it shut. But while he’d be doing that they wouldn’t have a clue
that he was also sapping the precious life energy he needed from
them.


They’d be a little tired after, lending to
the credibility of what they’d witnessed and go home to sleep it
off. But Gunner wouldn’t be sleeping. He’d barely slept the last
few days. That would come after he made the witch take it off. And
after he killed her. Maybe he could convince Linda and LaGina to
sleep it off here until he came back. Well, Linda would be easy, he
was already banging her.


“Semper ubi sub ubi…”
Gunner started with a few phrases in Latin, meaningless stuff, but
it sounded impressive. “aut viam inveniam
aut faciam… auribus teneo lupum… in articulo mortis… in manus meum
commendo spiritum tuas…” The real process had already happened in
his mind but people needed a show to buy in. Gunner pressed a
button beneath the table with his knee and super-cooled air poured
out of hidden vents in the ceiling.


“Oh, I think I feel something,” the old
woman said. Phyllis, he thought her name was. Good. Her reaction
would feed the others’ perceptions. Linda squeezed his hand a
little tighter, the platinum ring on his ring finger digging into
his pinky and middle. Henry Quint, on the other hand, just kept his
fingers stuck straight out like a dry piece of cardboard. Gunner
wondered if he peered into the guy if there was any soul inside of
him at all.


He almost felt bad for Quint. He’d heard a
little bit of his story before inviting him because the guy would
talk to anyone who would listen. Kid had vanished fifteen years
ago, marriage evaporated after his wife had given up and he
couldn’t hold onto a job for more than a few months at a time. But
he’d never wavered. That was dedication. Gunner wondered how much
time the Old Man would waste before he gave up on him or his
sister. No doubt Quint’s little girl was dead and if he could help
anyone it would be him.


Focus. He couldn’t afford to get distracted.
Spirits couldn’t kill, but that didn’t mean they weren’t dangerous
if you didn’t keep a reign on them. Gunner felt one like a cold
block of ice almost touching the back of his neck. It was here. He
concentrated, moving it toward the center of the table.


“He’s sweating,” the pussy-whipped one
said.


The cool was just past his forehead and
there were a couple ‘oohs’. Now was the time to work some
magic.


“Spirit, if there is one here you knew in
last-life please touch them.”


“Oh my God,” the old guy said. “Craig, is
that you?”


“Hampton? You with us?” someone else
said.


“Shirley?”


Gunner snuck another peak to see they had
all broken the circle to reach up and touch the cold space above
them like people feeling around in the dark. It was a spirit, but
they didn’t feel Gunner’s connection to it, couldn’t know the cold
was more than an absence of heat, but that it also leaked a
miniscule amount of life out of all of them and filtered it into
him. He didn’t need to take much—just enough to suit his
purposes.


LaGina was staring up at it like she could
see. That wasn’t possible, but she stood and he could see
recognition dawning on her face. Maybe there was something she
could see and no one else. Gunner had heard if two spirits
recognized one another the one in a living body could see it but
that had to be a one-in-a-million shot.


He thought it was worth the risk until she
reached out and said, “Stout?” and collapsed on the table.


***


Sheriff Wilson had been acting strange since
yesterday. Ever since that weird no-rain storm over by Garbutt Park
he just didn’t seem himself.


Deputy Collie Eaves watched the man over his
cup of coffee, leaning back in his chair. For starters, it was four
in the morning and Collie was certain the sheriff hadn’t gone home.
He had on the same uniform as yesterday or else this
mustard-stained shirt had an identical twin at home.


But it was more than that. His body language
and mannerisms had all changed. The bit of Bostonian accent he had
was gone and his walk was different too.


Right now the sheriff was looking at a map
of metro Detroit, but he had it laid out on the floor and was
crawling over it like an animal. Maybe he’d had a stroke. Maybe his
wife’s death had finally gotten to him. Except for her funeral he
hadn’t even taken off any time.


Collie stood, setting his coffee down and
stretching out his big frame. No one else was looking. Good. There
were over fifty people who worked out of this building and it would
spread like wildfire if anyone else saw him like this. Collie
quickly walked over to the sheriff, leaning against the wall to
block him from view by anyone down the hall.


“Sir, can I help you find something?”


The sheriff made some kind of grunting
sound, his head jerking before he looked up at Collie.


“What do you… want?” Sheriff Wilson’s eyes
were red and rheumy.


“You’re looking for something.” Collie
crouched, putting his fingers on the map. The sheriff slapped them
away. “May I help?”


“No. I—” he looked Collie up and down as if
seeing him for the very first time. Collie turned his wrists back
and forth, flexing the muscles in his forearms where they rested
across his thighs.


“Yes. Yes, you can…help.” Sheriff Wilson’s
head was parallel to the floor as he got to his feet. He stood up
straight. “You need to find… location. This car—” he scrawled a
license number on a post-it with his left hand—funny, Collie didn’t
know Sheriff Wilson was ambidextrous—and gave it to him. “Do not
disappoint me.”


Collie logged into LEIN. In a moment he had
the name and number of the limousine service that owned it. Parke
Cars. He dialed it and after a few rings a young-voiced woman
picked up. Collie hadn’t thought to ask why the sheriff wanted it
but he told her the car had been involved in a minor traffic
accident and they needed to speak to the driver.


After a few transfers and re-explanations
and identifying himself several times he had the cell number and
last location of the vehicle. Collie thanked the elderly gentleman
for his cooperation and hung up.


He plugged the GPS coordinates into his
phone and it popped up an address in Detroit on Grand River. A
McDonald’s on the West side. Going to the city. He wondered if the
sheriff would want to give a courtesy call before they crossed
Eight Mile.


“I found your car,” Collie said. The older
man stepped over to him and clasped his arm. His grip hurt. Collie
resisted the urge to pull away and he eventually let go. “So what
do you want to do?”


Sheriff Wilson walked out of his office and
Collie followed. They walked out of the building and into the
parking lot.


“There’s a man I need to arrest. A rapist. A
murderer. He must be brought to justice.”


“Should we get DPD involved?” This sounded
personal to Collie. He wondered who.


“No police. This one is mine. They killed
the Dolores.”


Dolores—wasn’t that his wife? Whoa, Collie
had heard she’d died of cancer. What kind of bastard raped and
killed somebody with cancer?


“Sir, I’d like to ride along.”


“There will be danger. Do as I say and
nothing more.”


“Yes sir.”


They walked across the lot to a cruiser and
got in. Sheriff Wilson started it up then paused a moment before
putting on his seat belt. He turned to Collie and patted him on his
balding head.


“Good job.”


It was weird, but considering what had
happened to his wife Collie thought he probably was just a little
bit off. This whole thing was outside of normal procedure, but if
it paid off there could be something big at the end of it for
him.


 



The lesser looked at the big one through the
human’s meat eyes. Yes, bringing this one along could prove
helpful. If this body was damaged, it could skip into that one. No
doubt the Jexclp’ar knew it was missing by now. But perhaps
redemption would come if it possessed the Hated one and brought it
to the Jexclp’ar. Then all would know the Hated one was real and
not defunct prophecy.


The lesser smiled as it plotted everything
out with its meat brain.


 



She woke up.


“Hey-hey, I think she’s coming around.”


Kelly spotted a McDonald’s ahead and flipped
on the turn signal. He had to find out what happened in that
room.


He found an open spot near the back of the
lot by a dumpster.


“Taze, can you go get us some coffee or
something?”


“Y’know it.”


Taze got out of the car and strolled inside
and Kelly went around to the backseat.


“Anna? Anna, how are you?”


She looked at him and at first Kelly thought
she was still unconscious. But then she blinked a couple
times—something suddenly familiar in her eyes—and she said, “You
know we have to get rid of him,” in Israel’s voice.


Kelly leapt away from her, hitting his head
on the ceiling of the car. “Anna?” he said from as far on the
opposite side of the car as he could get.


He heard an answer, but had to shake his
head. He’d heard somewhere that auditory hallucinations could be a
sign of brain cancer. Or serial killers. She’d spoken in two
voices, male and female, one saying ‘no’, but the other saying
‘yes’, though he was unsure which had said what.


“Who… who are you?”

“That’s a complicated answer,” Anna said in her feminine voice.
“But Israel can explain it better than I can. He’s here…
inside.”


“What—did you… did you eat him?”


“No. He saved me. And if
you want to save me we better leave before he gets in the car.”


Kelly turned to see Taze with three coffees
coming out of the McDonald’s.


“Okay,” he said, not sure what he was doing.
He hopped out, ran around to the driver’s side, hopped in and
started the car.


Taze was in the middle of the parking lot as
they peeled out. Kelly caught a brief glimpse of him in the
rearview mirror before pulling out into the street.


“Okay, you wanna fill me in on why I just
did that?”


“Yeah,” she said in Israel’s voice. “But I
actually could use a cup of coffee. There’s another Mickey D’s in a
few miles right before Schaefer. Why don’t you pull in when we get
there?”


“All right. But tell me who you are really.
Do you work with them? The diffoids?”


“No. I’m not with them. I’m Israel. Well,
that’s not my real name, but the human mouth can’t form the proper
sound to pronounce it.”


“What are you talking
about? Aren’t you… weren’t
you human?”


“No.”


“What happened to Anna? She has a
family—”


“She was lying. She has a roommate and a
dog. And nothing has happened to her. She’s here still. But
whatever those diffoid guys infected her with keeps killing her.
They have some kind of weird connection to the other side and I
suspect her body can’t handle it. When we put her in the trunk the
other day she was literally dead. She died sometime in the night
again. I should know because I can only possess a dead body.”


“Possess? So what—you’re a ghost?”


“Ooo, I wish you wouldn’t use the ‘g’ word.
That’s kind of offensive. Well, not to me, I was born on the other
side.”


“So you’re from over there? That doesn’t
mean you’re dead?”


“Yes. From a place called Lampheter. No, I’m
not dead. I’m not technically alive. The last detective the Network
hired crapped out. So they decided to go with an inside man and
channeled me.”


“I don’t get it.”


“The ‘other side’ as you put it already has
living people there. They can’t cross so they make things like
me.”


“One of those
ma-whatsits?”


“A machín.”


“And you possessed a dead body. Whose?”


“His name was Arthur Miller, he was a
salesman. I don’t know much beyond that, he’d been dead a while.
Memories tend to get corroded after a certain amount of time has
passed.”


“Why did we leave Taze?”


“He’s been compromised. He gets drugs in
exchange for information on us.”


“How do you know?”


“I didn’t like him from the start. At first
I thought it was because of what he did to that ghost at the inn,
but then I realized it was my premonitory sense.”


“Hey, you just said the ‘g’ word. What’s a
premonitory sense?”


“Well, I can say it, you can’t. My
premonitory sense tells me if I can trust someone or not. Once I
knew we had been followed to the hotel I knew it wasn’t just
dislike.”


“What happened at the hotel?”


“I took a little bit of your blood. I knew
that little girl was coming, remember her? The ugly one? You were
her target. I had to throw her off so I took your blood and I used
it to scent my room. By the time I’d gotten back to the room, Anna
had died again and I figured I could use her. I put her in the
closet and got in bed and in a couple hours it happened.


“I had to… stay in the body until then. I
can’t exactly leap from body to body at will. It was awful. If I
felt pain I can’t imagine what that would have been like. I awoke
in Anna’s body and knew something was different. Anna’s dead, but
she’s not. I can’t possess the living but she’s somewhere in
between. I guess it may be a condition all these diffoids
experience but I can’t be sure.


“Also, these guys have a sort of hive mind.
A communal mind they can tap into and exchange information. They
were watching us through Anna but they don’t know anything about
the little girl so far as I can tell. They don’t know anything
about their god except he’s from the Caribbean somewhere. Either he
doesn’t have a name or they don’t know it. They also don’t know
what his plan is but it does involve you.”


“What about me?”


“I wish they knew.”



OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












 



 



 



Siblings make the best
strangers




 








Bradley liked being a Sibling. He felt like
he finally belonged to something. Sure, his eyes were all messed
up, but he got to wear sunglasses at his security job, so so
what?


The Master hadn’t said to follow them but he
hadn’t said not to. Bradley took the initiative and tracked down
the hotel where they were staying. He’d guarded his thoughts from
the polycomb—what a dumb name for it—so the others didn’t know what
he was up to and ruin it. He knew this could endanger his ability
to become Naked, but no way would the Master fault him if he walked
in with the guy they were looking for. It had to be the taller
one—the white guy. Bradley’s gut was never wrong. Besides, the
short one was just some plain-looking black guy and the pit-faced
skinny one was a drug addict.


The Master didn’t have any use for people
who abused their bodies. That’s why the Master had picked Bradley.
He’d had a brief pro boxing career and even after an injury forced
him to retire he’d kept himself up.


He’d found their floor just as they’d burst
from their room. No need to hide, they didn’t know who he was. The
tall one wasn’t with them, but they were carrying the girl.


She was still going through Firstbirth. It
was a scary period for all of them but necessary to die and live
again over and over to purify one’s self to behold the Master. He
had come from the other side. Dying was the first way along the
path to become Naked.


Bradley strolled past as they raced down the
hall and ducked in the room to see if the tall one was still
inside. He checked all the rooms but only found a huge stinky hole
in the bed that almost made him earl.


He must have been outside checking for the
all-clear. Made sense if they thought they were hauling a corpse.
Bradley rushed to the stairs, leaping down them until he got to the
first floor. He dashed to the outside but took his time getting
into his car, double-parked at the valet by the front and saw them
drive by in a beat up Parke Car. The valet knocked on his window as
he started the engine, but Bradley gave the kid the finger, pulling
out of the lot and into the street.


Bradley hung back about two or three cars,
trying to see how many people were in the car. It was impossible to
make out with the tinted windows, and he briefly considered pulling
along side of them, but it was dark out and that could be too
risky. He couldn’t risk a high speed chase that might get the
police’s attention. He would have to wait until they pulled over or
got in an isolated area where he could run them off the road.


***


If she had missed them
they had just left. Jemen didn’t know exactly what
he looked like but she
knew the machín.
They must have sneaked out. She didn’t get a good look at them, but
there were two men carrying a woman out in a hurry. That couldn’t
have been them. The machín
would have taken the form of a man and the one
carrying the woman was much too short, the tall one much too
sickly. The machín would have taken the form of a man with a dominating
presence.


The cab driver had been a mistake. She did
not like to kill, but his insults… No, it had not been his insults.
Jemen was almost due and she became highly sensitive during these
times. But he still did not have to say that about Oodles.


The boys would be fine for the time being.
They knew to stay out of sight. The vehicle was Artie’s. The police
were more than likely looking for him by now and an abandoned SUV
would intensify the search. Too bad they would never find him.


Jemen hadn’t wanted to go
inside because she had no way of finding their room. Besides, a
six-foot ten woman would be remembered. She scratched underneath
Oodles’ chin as a bulky man emerged who could have been the
machín. He jumped into a
car in the valet area, prominently displaying his middle finger to
the nearby attendant before driving off. That must have been how
they said ‘hello’ and ‘goodbye’ to each other here.


She had a feeling she should be following
him. He drove off in such a hurry she doubted he would notice she
was behind him. She got into his lane with a black Crown Victoria
between them. There was a man on a bicycle keeping pace with them
by the curbside but he fell behind as traffic picked up.


Jemen was unsure if this
was the machín,
but it was her only hope. Maybe they had split up because they
suspected they were being followed. She wasn’t experienced with
these things. Maybe it was something else. Regardless, when she
caught the machín he would deliver him. He would have no choice; she was his
mother.


***


They pulled into a McDonald’s. Bradley
pulled into a spot a few cars farther down and watched. He placed
his revolver in the glove box—no need for any wetwork—and took out
his sap. Bradley craned his neck and saw one of them walk inside.
Not the one—dammit, it would have made things simpler if he were
alone.


At least they were split up. They all looked
soft, but three against one was next to impossible. He slid out of
his car, keeping the sap against his thigh. He looked around as the
sun was still a few hours away, no one was around. The first would
be out before he knew it, the second would try to fight, but
Bradley was big and knew how to handle himself. He’d be gone with
the one before the third one could sip his coffee.


Bradley could see two of them in the back
talking, but couldn’t tell who was who. Maybe she was in the front
seat but that didn’t make sense. Bradley had to move now. He looked
around one last time but the passenger door opened on the side
opposite him. He froze, thinking the short guy who got out was
looking at him as he ran around to the driver’s side.


The driver’s side. They must have spotted
him! Bradley started to run, but tripped, the sap flying from his
hand into the lot of the gas station next over. He put his hands
out to break his fall and cold wet asphalt greeted him, grating the
heels of his palms and his nose smacked off the ground as the rear
end of the Parke Car came within a foot of his head before peeling
off.


Bradley climbed to his feet as they pulled
away. He looked over and saw the pit-faced one watching the road,
holding three cups of joe. Bradley was pissed. Maybe they were
luring him here and stranded this one when he made his move. Or
maybe it was something else entirely.


Bradley balled his fists, looking at the
skinny pit-faced man. He would certainly find out.


 



Byrd had to stop him. He
scooped up the man’s—thing’s—weapon and raced across the
lot. It was punching a tall, skinny man who was managing to hold
onto three cups of coffee at the same time.


Byrd ran atop a white Ford Tempo parked a
few feet away, leaping off the roof of the small car and coming
down with his knees into the thing’s back.


The thing laid still, a knot growing on its
forehead.


“Skillet,
appreciated,” the
pit-faced man said, spitting a glob of blood.


“No thanks needed. This vile beast will
trouble you no longer. Are you in need of medical assistance?”


“Nah. I gots my own medication. Want a
coffee?”


“No. I do not consume stimulants.”


“What are you going to do with him?”


“Give him to my people. We will deal with
him.”


“This guy was probly gonna put a beat down
on my homies too. Man, they might be in trouble.”


“Do not worry. I’ve been tracking this
creature for some time. I saw he was following you and your friends
so I placed a tracking device on your vehicle.”


“Cool. When’d you do that?”


“Before you left the hotel.”


“Hey, somebody should tell those guys they
might be in trouble. You gotta ride?”


“Yes.” Byrd whipped out his walkie and
rattled off their location. He knelt and tossed off the creature’s
sunglasses and lifted an eyelid. Disgusting.


“Aw man, he’s one of those dudes?”


“You’ve seen one of them before?”


“Yeah, this shortie who was drivin’ us
around. She had eyes like that.”


“What is a ‘shortie’?”


“A phatty.”


Byrd shook his head.


“Your friends are in danger. If she hasn’t
killed she may soon. My bike is just on the other lot. Follow
me.”


Byrd hated to leave the creature here, but
he couldn’t allow more human life to be endangered. He whacked it
over the head one last time for good measure and ran across the
strip of lawn to the other lot.


Byrd hopped on his Schwinn and turned to
watch the other man. He’d stopped and was staring.


“What?” Byrd asked.


“My man, you have a bike.
Like a bike-bike.”


“Yes. I do not drive motorized vehicles.”
Byrd was embarrassed. He’d tried to learn once, but it was all too
much to do at the same time. He put up the kickstand.


“Okay, so you want me to… get on that. But
on the back?”


“If you want to save your friends, yes.”


The man said nothing, but tossed the coffee,
got on the banana seat and held on. Byrd turned on the tracking
device and rode out onto the street. He pumped his legs, paddling
until he got up to full speed, pedaling non-stop, swiftly outpacing
the light traffic at this early hour. According to the tracker they
had already stopped.


Byrd was somewhat disappointed the man was
so quiet. He purposely weaved around cars to scare him, show him
not only the big, air-polluting monstrosities were vehicles to be
reckoned with. They passed a police vehicle with ‘Ferndale Police’
printed on the side. Byrd thought there was something strange there
but decided it must be because it was from so far out of town. He
outpaced the police car, beating a traffic light and leaving it
behind.


***


Collie didn’t have much time left. Nasal
cancer. Chemo couldn’t do anything for him. They’d given him a year
at most, but he’d have that beat in half the time. Being a cop was
the only thing he had left. He would do the job until he physically
couldn’t anymore, but he’d become sexually indiscrete, having as
many partners as he could. It was funny how his life had split in
two, like Jekyll and Hyde. Collie had contracted plenty of STDs;
gonorrhea, syphilis, the clap. He’d avoided the HIV but not for
lack of trying.


Right now had an awful crotch itch flaring
up and he desperately needed to scratch his balls. It would have
been tolerable had he had something to occupy his mind, but the
sheriff had barely spoken the whole trip. Couldn’t start a
conversation with the man for the whole drive.


Two homos on a weird-looking green ten-speed
zipped by. Collie wished he could have opened the door on them as
they passed. He couldn’t wait to slap the cuffs on whoever they
were going to get. He’d make sure to put them on nice and tight.
Maybe he’d even get to shoot somebody. At the very least his knee
was going to grind into somebody’s nuts.


***


Wendy and Dale found it stumbling around in
the parking lot. Byrd shouldn’t have left, but then again, Byrd
shouldn’t have done anything but follow, even if a life was in
danger. Countless lives would be saved if they could find where all
of them met and destroyed the entire nest at once.


Dale knew how to make pipe bombs using
ordinary household materials. Wendy liked to be more up front when
confronting the enemy, it seemed more fair—a contradiction,
considering evil sought to overthrow through hidden means—but
Dale’s bombs had their place as well.


The sun was just beginning to rise. The
parking lot was filled with cars so she would have to play this
sly. Dale pulled up next to a brown Ford Probe and reached for the
door. She stopped him.


“Stay here. Keep it running.” Dale nodded.
He was already sweating. If she hadn’t known him she would have
thought she couldn’t count on him. He swiped his hand over the top
of his balding head and rubbed his hand on his pant leg.


She’d left her bow-tang in
the passenger seat, a weapon of her own design, wishing it had been
dark out so she could have used it. She would have to use
femininity and guile—lies—to get him in the car and found
the prospect as disgusting as Dale’s sweaty head.


“Mister, are you okay?” she said, pouring
sugary-sweetness into her voice as she reached for the door to the
McDonald’s. She turned away from the door to face him, affixing
concern into her expression.


“No, no. I’ll be all right.” The knot on his
head was split open. Byrd had really worked him over.


“You should get that looked at. Do you need
a ride to the hospital?” She impressed herself with how convincing
she sounded. But she would have to be as good as this beast that
acted and looked human. Anything that came off as disingenuous
might alert it.


“My car’s… over there.” It seemed confused.
Perhaps it had just regained consciousness if it could actually
lose consciousness.


“You could even use my cell phone to call
911.” It took a step and stumbled. Wendy was right there to catch
it and they were eye level.


“The man who attacked me—he put something in
my eyes.” Anyone not a Morrisite might have believed this beast’s
lies. Its retinas looked like they had exploded, the inky black of
them like a Rorschach spot atop the whites of its eyes.


“Then you definitely shouldn’t be driving.”
Wendy thought she’d done a pretty good job of not recoiling from
it. “Here, come to my car.” She was as tall as the beast and threw
its arm over her shoulder, practically dragging it across the lot.
There still weren’t a lot of people around so she opened the door
and rammed its head into the door frame.


It grunted and flopped over on the back
seat. She shoved it into a semi-sitting position and pulled out a
knife from her boot as she got in.


“Anything moves on you and I cut it off.
Understand?”


“Yeah.”


“Let’s hurry up. I gotta get back to the gas
station,” Dale said and started pulling out before she could shut
the door. As the car started going forward it leaned over as if it
were about to cradle its head.


“I told you
to—oof!” It
sprang its legs out and caught her in the middle, ejecting her from
the car as Dale was picking up speed. Wendy hit the street,
drumming her head on the ground and rolled to a stop. She tried to
rise but her arms and legs were paralyzed. She looked up in time to
see Dale’s silver Cobalt pulling away.


***


Alas, capturing him was not her destiny
today. Jemen had had to pull over into the lot of a post office
once her water broke. She tried watching the car as it continued
down the road but it was quickly lost to her.


Delivery had been quick. Two smooth legs
came out first, a breech, followed by a torso and arms and finally
the head. The pain was sharp and brief. Jemen hadn’t grown
accustomed to the sensation so much as developed an appreciation
for it. She sat him in the passenger seat and cooed to him,
stroking his back while he sucked his thumb and stared at her.
Oodles licked his thigh. This one would be big; he was at least
four feet tall from birth and he was growing even now. His head
rounded and expanded, making his face more human despite the
translucent white skin. His collar bone and shoulders became more
pronounced and his knees bumped against the dashboard. The majority
of her children’s growth came within the first five minutes after
birth and he was almost as tall as his mother. In two days he would
dwarf her.


“You’re too skinny,” she
said, looking at her child’s prominent bones. She knew she should
be trying to find the machín, but she always got euphoric
after birthing. Jemen rubbed his bald head. He wouldn’t have hair
for at least a month.


He watched a homeless man walking down the
sidewalk, pushing a cart.


“Ahhhh! Ahhhh!” he said, pointing. Sadly,
none of her children were capable of speech. But this was
interesting. Had her son found his one?


“Do you want him?” she said. “That man
there?”


Her child nodded, his eyes even wider than
before. He fumbled and pushed at the door until she reached over
and pulled the handle. He fell out and popped up on his hands and
knees. He was lumbering in his movement but anyone watching would
have understood this was a hunter stalking its prey.


Oodles had his front paws up on the window,
watching, and he barked as her child was only a few feet away. The
homeless man didn’t turn and her child leapt on his back. The man
screamed and tried to shake him off but he held on.


The man’s long salt and pepper hair rose as
if static electricity were coursing through him. The ends of his
hair attached to her child’s head and began peeling away from the
scalp of the homeless man. He fell to his knees and her child spun
him over and pushed him onto his back. He nuzzled his face into the
man’s as his skin took the hairs, creating a scraggly beard and
eyebrows. The homeless man screamed again and her child plucked a
tooth out of his mouth and into his own.


The man closed his mouth and moaned through
his nose, attempting to keep him from extracting any more teeth.
Her child pulled at his lips and when he couldn’t get his mouth
open he smashed him in the jaw with his fist, breaking it. The
homeless man lay on the ground and cried as he yanked out the other
teeth, rooting them into his own gums.


When it was over the homeless man lay naked
on the ground, shivering, pale and in shock. If someone didn’t come
along soon he would die from exposure. Maybe he would die even if
someone found him in time. But her boy had found his one and that
was all that mattered.


She hated that another one of her boys would
die when they eventually found Kelly Greene. But it must be done.
She had to save the world.


***


Two was easy.


If that Amazon hadn’t been
in such a hurry to rough him up they could have taken him where
ever they wanted. She’d been sloppy, nervous, new. He couldn’t be mad, it worked
to his advantage. As Bradley strangled the wimp in the driver’s
seat he made a mental note to find out who they were working for
before he killed him.


He had a clamp on his carotids from the back
seat, but the little freak was doing his best to shake him off,
weaving violently from side to side. Bradley wanted to put him down
ASAP so he could get back on the other one’s trail if it were still
possible and bring back two finds.


It wouldn’t be so difficult to believe the
Master had enemies. Or that there were others seeking to be Naked.
But they would find the Master was a formidable opponent.
Formidable because he had attendees like Bradley.


Baldy sideswiped two cars on the left and
took a hand off the wheel, reaching towards the cigarette lighter.
He pushed it in and Bradley smashed the driver’s side window open
with his head, immediately regretting it because of the sharp
in-rush of wind blinding him a moment. The lighter popped back out
and baldy grabbed it, reaching back to burn him, but Bradley easily
swatted it out of his grubby little hand and went back to a
two-handed choke.


Baldy’s hand slapped wildly at the dash and
the radio came on. ‘Candy Man’ by the Mary Jane Girls wafted out of
the speakers in the middle of a verse. He scratched at Bradley’s
hands then went back, reaching for something in the passenger
seat.


“And when I need a little
sugar/You go straight down to my head,”
JoJo sang. Bradley saw what he was reaching for; some kind of sword
that had a chain-looking thing instead of a blade. Maybe he’d kill
him with that.


“You’re the sweetest man I
know/And our love will surely grow.”





Bradley saw the speedometer crest over sixty
just before the wheel cut to the right, lifting onto two wheels as
they split between two cars and jetted through a red light into
cross traffic as the song went into a chorus.


***


“All right, I’m a little confused. There’s
just too much going on right now.”


“I know,” Israel/Anna
said. “I’m a little over my head myself. I’d only possessed a body
one other time before so I’m no expert at this. I still don’t
exactly know how I can be in a living body.”


They walked back to the car, parked as far
back from the street as possible, sipping their coffee.


“You, Israel, are from the other side. You
aren’t dead, but a machi—”


“—machín.”


“—yeah and you have the
ability to cross over here and possess dead bodies.”


“Yes.”


“All right, I understand at least. How long
do you think we’re safe here?” Kelly took a long sip of his coffee
and tossed the cup.


“I don’t. I have a feeling a lot of people
on both sides are looking for us.”


There were a lot of weeds growing in the
empty lot next to the parking lot. Israel stared as if he/she saw
something.


“What, is there somebody out there?”


“Not exactly. Hold this.” Israel/Anna handed
him their cup and walked to the edge of the lot, stepped over the
metal rail and vanished into the weeds. A moment later she backed
out, stepping back over and bending down.


She was cooing to something and in a moment
Kelly saw a hand come out of the weeds. Whoever he was, he was
dirty and he had a couple broken fingers.


The man crawled over the guard rail all
while Israel made fussing noises to bring him out. He stood on
uncertain legs and it was obvious he had been dead for some time.
He still had his tie on, but most of the jacket and shirt had been
gnawed through at the sides. Ribs and gray stuff hung out loosely
by his hips.


“Hey, maybe you should leave him be.” Kelly
saw the bullet hole just below his hairline. Even odder was the
lipstick that had managed to survive on his cheek all this time. He
looked like he’d been a few days. At least it looked like
lipstick.


“What? He’s harmless.” Anna’s voice now.
“He’s only dead. Besides, there’s a spirit in there.”


“But he could bite you or something.”


“Bite me—” She looked
perplexed. “Why? The dead don’t eat. They’re dead. Don’t believe what you see in
movies.”


Just then a police cruiser pulled into the
lot. Kelly turned to see, panicked, then relaxed when he saw it
wasn’t DPD.


He panicked again when a big white guy got
out and aimed a gun at them.


***


It was glad it had brought this one along.
The human was eager to please and showed as much by scratching at
his genitalia, no doubt ready to obey his master. The lesser
wondered if all humans expressed their excitement in such a manner.
It accessed the Wilson Sheriff’s memory on this ‘Collie’ and knew
he had been an adequate soldier on the battlefield. Numerous enemy
acquisitions and at least three confirmed kills. A low number in
the lesser’s estimation.


Plus if the Wilson Sheriff became fatally
injured the Collie would be a competent replacement. Its hold on
the Wilson Sheriff was atrophying regardless. Wilson Sheriff had a
condition called Alzheimer’s in only its beginning stages and the
lesser’s presence made it more pronounced. Perhaps sooner would be
better than later to make the switch.


The Collie closed his cellular phone and
pointed to a building ahead with a giant yellow ‘M’ on it.  It
had seen many of these since it had possessed the Wilson
Sheriff.  They must have been temples of some sort, but it did
not understand the bags the humans came out with.  The Wilson
Sheriff’s memory told it these bags contained food, but the lesser
had no conception of what that was.  The Wilson Sheriff’s
stomach made an odd sound.  It had been doing that since
yesterday.  It supposed worship was done with that particular
body organ.  Also, the Wilson Sheriff's mouth must have been
malfunctioning as whenever the lesser neared these places
it kept filling with saliva.  If only there were some
efficient means of disposing with this moisture build-up it
wouldn’t have to resort to squeezing it from the human’s mouth and
wiping it on his pant leg.  Perhaps after capturing the Hated
One it would go through the ‘drive-thru’ and request a number two;
it contained something called a ‘cheeseburger’.  Considering
he would die soon it would allow this as a sort of last rites, but
on second consideration it would go inside.  It struck the
lesser as disrespectful to not properly enter a god’s temple to
worship but this was apparently common practice.  No wonder
this was an abandoned world.  The lesser would be glad to be
rid of it.


The lesser turned into the parking lot. The
Collie pointed, reaching for his gun with his other hand.


“That them?” He had his gun in his hand. The
lesser had a feeling this could go wrong. It needed the Hated One
alive, to bring him back to the Jexclp’ar, but the Collie was
already out of the car before it could stop him. Without the Hated
One there was no hope of securing passage back for itself. It put
the cruiser in park and before it could tell him to stand down he
shot. Someone fired back as it stood and the lesser felt the Wilson
Sheriff’s meat head pop before everything went dark.


***


“There they are,” Taze said from the other
side of the dumpster. Byrd was pretty fly at sneaking up on people.
So far Kelly and Anna hadn’t seen them. She stepped back over the
guardrail out of some really tall weeds (she was gonna have an ill
skin rash) and looked like she was talking to an animal or
something.


“Those are your friends,” Byrd said. “Where
is the other?”


“That’s the thing,” Taze began. “He—yo, who
dat?”


Some other clown crawled out of the weeds in
a dirty suit. They couldn’t see him from the front from this angle
but his jacket had been all chewed up. Was that his spine sticking
out?


“The other,” Byrd said and stood. “Stay
here.” He started walking.


Taze was no punk. He wasn’t sure what was
going on but Kelly and Israel had been cool individuals and he
wasn’t going to let them go out like that. He hadn’t exactly bussed
a cap in somebody’s ass before, but he was pretty sure he could do
it.


He pulled his Desert Eagle out, tight on
Byrd’s heels and there was a shot. Byrd spun around as a bullet
caught his shoulder. Taze came around the corner, the jammy turned
to the side in his hand, blazing. He hit the Micky D’s twice, brick
chipping in his face before he saw who had shot.


One of them went down, then the other. Taze
hit the windshield three times before the gun clicked on empty.
Then he saw the cherries on top of the car.


Oh, snap. Those weren’t just dudes. Those
dudes were cops.


Taze saw the tall one hadn’t fallen. He was
clutching the side of his head. He could see the bottoms of the
shoes of the other one. Had he killed him? Taze had barely started
to consider the ramifications of what he’d done. He didn’t want to
go to the pen.


But something weird happened; a car racing
down the street flipped through an intersection, smacking into a
car and tumbling about fifty feet before skidding to a stop in the
grassy median.


Everyone froze, even the big cop by the
cruiser, but the girl grabbed Kelly by the arm and hustled him to
the car. The dead guy followed on his own sat in with Kelly. Taze
ran to the car.


“I just… I just killed a police officer,”
Taze said.


“I thought we were leaving him?” Kelly said
from the back.


“Not in that hell storm,” the girl said. “I
don’t care what he’s done.” They wound around the building and
peeled out of the lot. The sun had crested over the horizon and the
Eastern sky was a pinkish-burgundy.


“I’m going to be sick,” Taze said. “I need
to call my dad.”


“Where are we going?” Kelly asked.


“He’s going to be so mad.”


“Israel knows a guy who can help. He doesn’t
want to go there but there’s little choice for it now.”


“I don’t know… I don’t know. Maybe I should
go to jail. I mean, I took someone’s life.”


“Look, Taze,” the girl said. “What you did
was a good thing. That police officer just shot that guy for no
reason. He was a maniac. He probably would have killed us all if
you hadn’t been there. Where did you come from, by the way?”


“We rode on the guy’s bike. He pedals really
fast.”


“There was an accident back there,” Kelly
said.


***


At least Wendy had her handi-wipes. The bus
had come along just at the right time, but she was almost unable to
get on. But Dale needed her. She’d gone through half of them on the
short ride until she’d seen Dale’s car wrecked up on the island
between the north and southbound lanes.


The driver kept telling her she’d have to
wait until they got to the curb to let her off, but they weren’t
going anywhere soon in this traffic jam. Dale’s car was about sixty
yards ahead on the other side of the intersection. Wendy didn’t
hide the anger she felt until the middle-aged driver had had enough
of the menacing look she was giving him and let her off.


She shouldn’t have been so stupid. Of course
the beast hadn’t been as injured as it had looked. She should have
just taken it down in the parking lot and thrown it in the trunk.
Now she had probably cost Dale his life. Wendy only hoped the beast
had gone with him.


The cops hadn’t arrived yet. That was either
good or bad. It was good if the beast were alive and too much for
her to handle alone. They could just shoot it. But it was bad if
she couldn’t get her bow-tang. And worse still that they would have
Dale’s body. Ren-Jon had said they have the technology to divine
information even from a corpse. If not for all these witnesses she
would take him with her, dispose of him properly, but as it stood
it was a risk with her even approaching the car. People would
describe her to the cops. They would look for her and want to ask
questions.


Wendy ran between the cars and saw the beast
emerging from the shattered rear window of Dale’s car. It ran
across the street. She crossed the intersection, pushing past the
smattering of witnesses who had exited their cars and were
attempting to help the injured man Dale’s car had smashed into.


Dale’s engine roared impotently as the front
wheel continued to spin. A man on the radio was singing, “Been down
so long, getting up didn't cross my mind/I knew there was a better
way of life that I was just trying to find./You don't know what
you'll do until you're put under pressure,/Across 110th Street is a
hell of a tester.”


Wendy didn’t listen to music; she didn’t
know the song. A woman in a business skirt was on her knees in
glass by his Cobalt. Wendy thought the woman might have been thrown
from the other car by the way she just sat there mumbling. But then
she realized the woman was praying. Wendy gave her a wide berth and
went around to the driver’s side.


What was left of Dale was smashed beyond
recognition and smeared across everything in the front of the car.
The car rested on its roof, tilted onto the hood. Wendy circled to
the front passenger door, intent on getting her bow-tang so she
could finish the beast. The doors had been bashed and wouldn’t
budge. She walked around to the back and took a peek inside. Her
bow-tang was right there. She looked across the street and saw the
beast resting on its knee by a police car.


She panicked until she saw it wasn’t a
Detroit police car. They might try to intervene, but they had to be
here for something else. Plus it was parked facing away from her.
Wendy stepped through the back window, careful to avoid the shards
of glass in the window frame and reached for her bow-tang.


There were only drops of blood back here,
but she could feel it crawling over her hand. It would take hours
to wash the sensation away. Dale’s pulpy arm slid off the passenger
seat, the wrist-nub falling onto her hand. Wendy screamed, stopping
herself before she cut herself on the glass. She took a deep breath
and took a step farther inside and grabbed the weapon.


The beast would die. Wendy didn’t care about
the mission. It had cost her comrade his life and Dale deserved
vengeance. She would be sure of it. Gas had pooled beneath the car.
Wendy took a book of matches out of her pocket, struck one, and
dropped it once she was on dry asphalt. Flame lapped up the
gasoline and engulfed the car. The woman on her knees fell back and
crab-walked away from the car as fire licked at the sky. The pipe
bombs in his trunk would explode any minute. Let them try to steal
from Dale’s body after that.


She crossed the street and no one tried to
stop her. Wendy could feel the eyes of the rubberneckers still in
their cars looking at her across the street. An ambulance siren was
going off somewhere in the distance. She gripped the bow-tang,
intent on splitting the beast in two when it promptly rose from its
knee and disappeared in a blur.


She began to run, hoping she could spot it
and at least track it, but a big cop stood up on the opposite side
of the police cruiser.


“Freeze!” he said, aiming a Sig Sauer at
her. “Drop the… drop the thing… in your hand.”


Wendy didn’t. Byrd was approaching behind
him. He was wounded. The cop seemed confused. The left side of his
head was covered in blood. He kept dabbing at it with his hand and
wiping his red fingertips on his shirt. The shoulder was already a
deep-soaked crimson from his bleeding wound. Byrd got as far as the
hood of cruiser when the cop whirled on him.


“Stop!” he said. He kept turning between
Byrd and Wendy. Byrd, despite his dark skin, looked green. “I said
stop moving!” The cop focused on Byrd. Wendy was the one with the
weapon, but again, because she was a woman, the cop dismissed her.
Byrd wasn’t even in a position to do anything.


“You’re both under arrest.” The cop clapped
his hand over the spewing mess coming out of the side of his
head.


“Wendy,” Byrd began, giant beads of sweat
standing out on his forehead. “This is the officer who shot
me.”


They’d been trained to respect officers of
the law, to even avoid them as often as possible because many times
Morrisites would be operating outside of the law. But Wendy’s rage
boiled up inside of her. She had missed the beast because of this
cop. And he had hurt another one of her people. She’d been
squeezing the hilt of the bow-tang until her hand ached when she
looked down at it. Then, without thinking, it was spinning out of
her hand and penetrating the cop’s skull.


He pitched backwards onto the sidewalk,
lifeless. Wendy retrieved her weapon by stepping on his face and
snatching it out. She felt no regret for killing him, only that she
had lost her restraint.


Byrd stared at her.


“What—do you have a problem with this?”


“No, I—” Byrd’s eyes rolled up in his head.
He rocked back and forth and collapsed.


“Crap.”


***


Jemen hoped he had stopped
somewhere. The machín didn’t need to eat or sleep so there was a slim chance he
had, but it was all she had to go on. She’d made her son get in the
back of the cab. It looked better for a cab driver to have a fare
in the back as opposed to being in the front seat, but he also
stunk. He’d taken on the scent of his one and would probably take
on some of his habits as well which meant she would have a hard
time giving him a bath later on.


There was a car in the lot
of a McDonald’s that looked a lot like the machín’s. Jemen was too late to turn
in and had to work her way over to the far left lane to make a
Michigan left turn. She turned around and had to stop at a red
light of an intersection before she could make another Michigan
left. She ran through the yellow light of the intersection this
time and pulled into the lot, finding a spot right next to
the machín’s car.


Her son got out with her and smiled that
toothless smile. The more she saw him like this the less she liked
it. But providence did not come on one’s own terms. She would have
to be patient to see the purpose of her son like… this. He was at
least seven feet tall now and infinitely noticeable. Jemen tried
the door and found it unlocked.


“Get in,” she told him. She got behind the
driver’s seat and turned around to look out the back window. She’d
automatically assumed he’d abandoned the car. But what if he had
gone inside? The key was still in the ignition, but that didn’t
necessarily mean anything.


She thought a moment. They were pressed for
time but it would be good to search the car. If he had abandoned
the car she could take his. The police might be looking for the
cab, but not this car. She turned to her boy. His breath stung her
eyes.


“Son, listen to me.” She grabbed him by the
shoulders.


“No cry,” he said.
Oh, this one
develops speech, she thought.


“I want you to go inside
and find the machín if he is there. Do not approach him. Only come back here if
he is.”


Her son nodded vigorously and opened the
door. She grabbed his arm.


“And do
not eat. Anything. Do
you understand?”


His smile faded and he nodded again before
getting out. He loped across the lot and disappeared inside. Jemen
turned to the glove compartment. She opened it and found an owner’s
manual, tire gauge a baggie filled with zip ties and a handgun.


She checked the sun visors and found an old,
folded up sheet of paper tucked away in the one for the passenger.
Jemen unfolded it and read what looked like a child had scrawled,
‘MY GOD IS COOL’ with a stick figure wearing sunglasses. There were
squiggly lines all around him as if to denote he emitted some form
of radiation. Several smaller figures surrounded the bespectacled
stick figure except they didn’t have circular heads. Their heads
were isosceles triangles, the two sides of equal length, coming
down to a point with a semi-circle inside for a frowning (or
menacing?) mouth. The sides went above the flat of the head,
fanning out like antennae or feathers, where he had gone over and
over, thickening them with extra pen strokes.


As rudimentary as these smaller stick
figures were, there was something about them. Jemen had seen
figures like these before. But she only had a passing awareness of
anything on her home world. Greaters were solely dedicated to
destroying one another. Paying attention to the lives of those who
attended them was never a consideration.


He was taking too long. Jemen got out of the
car to go get him so they could leave. She was still distracted by
those stick figures and didn’t see the man approach her or the
device in his hand. The first shock stunned her and as she turned
to see who had attacked her another one stepped around the trunk of
the Caprice Classic next over and hit her with a stick of some
kind. Her kind didn’t lose consciousness, but she was disoriented,
in pain. She heard the trunk pop open and felt her legs being
pushed up to her chest as she was shoved inside.


Then everything went dark.


***


Mother say look for
brother-not-brother. Mother say not eat. Walk in door. See people.
See food. Mother
say not eat. Brother-not-brother not sit at table. Ugly people sit
at table. Eat food. Mother say not eat. More ugly people by food. Ugly people smile nervous.
Smile back. Ugly people smell like food, but not food. Mother say not eat.
Brother-not-brother not by food-smelling ugly
people.


Walk closer.
Food-smelling ugly
people smell afraid. Food
smell good. Mother say not eat. Smell deep for
brother-not-brother. No smell. Food
smell. Food-smelling ugly people give food
to more ugly people. Want food, take food. Mother say not eat. Ugly
people smell more afraid. All ugly people yell. Give
food back. Ugly people
won’t take. Food smell good. Mother say not—


Ugly people push. No
understand. Eat food. Food
good. Want more food. Climb over, push ugly people
away. Food hot!
Still eat. Eat more. Eat more. Ugly people run away.
Eat-eat-eat-eat-eat-eat-eat—


Insides hurt. Go outside, mother make all
better. Car make loud noises with funny lights. Ugly people get
out. Ugly people yell. Afraid now. Mean ugly people. Where
mother?


***


This one had a considerable amount of head
trauma. At first it was difficult to maintain control. But it had
knowledge of both the Hated One and its quarry and a mental
connection to others that seemed much like its connection to the
Jexclp’ar.


This one called itself Bradley. The lesser
did not understand these ‘names’. It was much simpler being a part
of a group. To be called Jexclp’ar. They all looked alike anyway
and may as well have had just one name.


The Bradley had come over just as the Wilson
Sheriff’s life was fading away and it jumped into his body. It
quickly scanned his mind and spotted the tall bald-headed black man
who had assaulted the Bradley in another McDonald’s parking lot.
The Bradley thing felt hatred at the sight of this human, but
resisted the urge to kill him. There was a woman across the street
who had tried to capture the Bradley before and no doubt she would
try again.


The Bradley thing did not believe in
coincidences. It watched the man stumble around then circled around
the McDonald’s. Perhaps he had some sort of conveyance it could
acquire. The Bradley thing saw a bicycle on a kickstand. Not as
convenient as it required but it would do.


The Bradley was also in this world and the
lesser’s as well. It did not understand how that was possible, but
it didn’t want to be detected just yet. It needed to find the Hated
One if it expected to survive the transition back into the
Jexclp’ar.


The human was a competent tracker. He had
found the Hated One before and using those tactics in a much more
sophisticated manner it was certain to find them again. Perhaps
then it could trigger the Jexclp’ar itself using the human’s
connection to the other side.


There was a device secured between the
handlebars. The lesser flipped a switch on the side and a section
of map came up on the display. The Bradley thing recognized the
area and the red dot in the center indicated something was located
there.


Could it be the human that had assaulted the
Bradley had been following the Hated One too? It was logical if he
were protecting the Hated One considering the Bradley had had the
opposite in mind.


The lesser got on the bicycle and began a
furious pedal south. This conveyance would do just fine.


***


“Master, I feel another
intrusion on the polycomb,” Lewis said. The Master said nothing,
only stared. “Different from the first one, though. And Bradley… I
think he’s gone.
Whatever it is just… removed
him. I don’t feel him at all.”


Lewis prided himself on being the most
sensitive of all the Master’s attendees. He could touch any of the
others’ minds and even feel what they were experiencing. Sometimes
it could be a burden as he wasn’t able to always control these
feelings. They tended to intrude on him when one of the others was
in an excited state. Of the times it had happened it was usually
someone having sex, usually alone, but Bill and Amanda had hooked
up a few times. That was a double whammy because he felt what both
of them were feeling. He usually took a Valium on those nights.


They probably thought they could hide
themselves, but they were wrong. Just like Bradley thought he could
hide his thoughts when he went after the one the Master was
seeking. Lewis had reported what Bradley was up to, but the Master
had only smiled. It was strange that He would smile at the man’s
disobedience when they had been told to not approach whoever this
person was. And now Bradley had completely vanished and the Master
was treating that and this intrusion as if it were no big deal.


Almost as if Bradley had never mattered to
begin with.


The Master wouldn’t have the same attitude
if it were him or any of the others, would He?


The Master still said nothing. He did that
at times. Lewis decided to keep an eye on this intrusion in case
they did need to get involved. He could feel exactly where it
was.


 




OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












 



 



 



It doesn’t work like it’s
supposed to


 



 



 



 



“I just think you’re lucky, is all. I mean,
we’re not in a position to be choosy is all I’m saying.”


Marv checked his watch again. He wanted this
dead body out of his Nitro. And to not be having this conversation
with Dell.


“Dude, I
so don’t want to be
having this conversation with you,” he said.


“Okay, that’s cool,” Dell
said. “But you do realize she accepts the whole eye thing, right?
And she’s fine. Where else you gonna find that?”


“What time is it?” Marv huffed, drumming his
fingers on the door.


“Almost eight.”


“What’s with this guy?” I’m tired of being
on corpse corral duty for him. It takes all day and the next to get
out the formaldehyde stink. What the hell does he even do with them
in there?”


“I don’t know. But the Master told us to
bring ‘em, so we bring ‘em.”


“Yeah. But I don’t hafta like it.”


“Hey, careful with that kinda talk if you
wanna get Naked.”


Marv wasn’t so sure he wanted that anymore.
Over the last few weeks it had begun to lose its appeal to him.


“It’s eight. Let’s go.”


The two men exited the SUV and circled to
the rear. Marv popped the hatch and there it was, wrapped in two
garbage bags.


“We shouldn’t be doing this in the
daylight,” Marv said, grabbing it by the shoulders. Dell grabbed
the feet and they slid it out.


“Forget the hatch,” Marv said. “Let’s just
get this done. I’m outta Febreeze so let it air out.”


“I bet he’s probably some kind of
necro-freak,” Dell said. “This guy’s small,” he said, referring to
the body. “Why’s he so heavy?”


“Formaldehyde. The body is saturated with
the stuff and it makes it heavier. Either that or we’re just
tired.”


They’d been out since a little after one
o’clock this morning at Gethsemane Cemetery to get this body.
Graveyards were creepy and not always because of the dearly
departed. They’d tried to be nonchalant and walked around outside
the gates but there was some dude in there. Eventually he
disappeared, but they never saw him come out.


Even in Detroit, walking around with a dead
body wrapped in garbage bags and shovels at three in the morning
gets noticed. To add to the risk they always had to backfill the
grave in case they were sent back to steal another body at another
time.


“I’ll tell you what,” Marv
said. “This better be the last time I have to do this. They stopped at
the door to the building and Dell propped it open with his elbow,
giving it a hard shove so they could hurry inside.


The two of them had done this enough times
that they knew where to go. This place had been an elementary
school or something but it was empty now except for this Hills guy
and his big-titted secretary.


“Hey, maybe I could ask his assistant out on
a date,” Dell said. “She deals with us enough. Maybe the whole eye
thing doesn’t freak her out.”


“She’s like fifteen years older than
you.”


“So what? Sometimes older chicks are the
best.”


“Let me hear you say that when you turn
fifty.”


“Aww, c’mon. Hey, do you think we’ll be like
this forever?” Dell knocked on a big white door with his foot.


“Come in,” Hills said from inside. Dell made
a face, obviously annoyed with having to open the door himself.
They wedged their way through into a long rectangular all white
room complete with a white desk, white chair, white flat screen
television against a wall and Hills on the far end of the room in a
white t-shirt fitted to his muscular frame and white pants with at
least a dozen pockets.


His long black hair was swept back from his
face into a big poofball at the back of his head. He was standing
in front of an easel with a palette and brush in his hands. The
only color other than white was on the palette and the painting he
was working on. Marv couldn’t make out the painting. It looked like
a rainbow Rorschach splotch or something. Screaming tree was the
first thing that came to mind.


“Why’s he painting a vagina?” Dell
asked.


“Morning, gentlemen,” Hills said. They both
grunted in return. “Put her over there.” He waved his hand without
turning around to look at them. There was a bench by the wall
behind the desk. Dell nodded his head in its direction and they
carried it over and set it down.


Marv’s back ached. He stretched and it
popped a couple times. Not only the shoveling but carrying a body,
even a frail old one, was hard.


“So what are you gonna do with it?” Dell
asked. Marv rolled his eyes. All he wanted to do was leave.


“What?” Hills said without looking. Marv
semi-panicked. The Master didn’t say to ask questions. Only
deliver.


“This body. What are you gonna do with
it?”


“Oh, you mean Mrs. Meyers? Just ask her a
few questions.”


“What?” Dell said. Marv slapped his arm.


“Let’s go already,” he
whispered.


“You fine fellows look like you’re boiling
over with curiosity. Would you like to know exactly what I’m going
to do with her?” Hills put the palette down.


Dell looked unsure. Everything in Marv’s
head said to turn around and walk out, but he was rooted to the
spot.


“Yes,” they both said.


Hills thumbed a button on
a white remote and a giant portion of the wall next to them slid
away, revealing a much larger adjacent room. There was a black,
blocky thing against the far wall—no, a part of it. It looked like it had
grown out of the wall, like some kind of tumor.


Marv took an instinctual step away from it
but felt a gentling hand at his back ushering him closer. Hills
towered beside him and Dell, like a black Adonis with a beatific
smile on his face. All three men approached.


It was only a machine. It looked really old
and had what looked like a lawn mower engine installed at its side.
This thing definitely hadn’t come off an assembly line. It had been
born in somebody’s garage. There was a seat on the left with two
holes in an arm rest-looking thing in front of it. The machine was
tall and thin, part of the low tiled ceiling had been removed, with
antenna or spires shooting off in all different directions,
including the wall, floor and ceiling. It was like it had grown
into the wall.


To Marv they looked like deformed, handless
arms reaching out for help.


“Go ahead. Sit.” Dell looked sheepish now,
but despite himself, Marv was intrigued. He stepped past Dell and
into the seat. Hills turned a small wheel overhead, releasing a
bulky headset that fell in front of him, hanging by a cord.


“Don’t worry, everything’s cleaned after
each use and you attach these.” Hill handed him a small plastic
package. Marv opened it and dumped out two weird-looking earplugs,
a thing he couldn’t identify and a bit-looking thing. “Put those in
your ears, put that on your nose and put that in your mouth.”


Marv took the two small hollow tubes and put
them in his hears and chomped down on the bit-looking thing. Hills
had to help him with the nose attachment as he kept sneezing every
time he tried to put it on then he attached cords from the helmet
to all three pieces and put the helmet over his head. Marv thought
it was on backwards as there was no opening for his face.


He felt detached at the sudden deprivation
of sight and sound. Someone guided his arms into the arm holes and
he felt vulnerable when they cinched up, pinning him in place.


Marv felt the machine hum to life. A steady
huff of air went into his mouth, nose and eyes, making him cough
once or twice and blink repeatedly. There was a distant clicking in
his ears. He felt someone tickling the tips of his fingers, at
least that was what it felt like and then he felt loose.


Marv’s feet were beneath him. He blinked and
the city came into view. Except it didn’t look like any place in
the metro area he had ever seen. Maybe it was Chicago or
something—he’d never been there. But how could he have been in
another state?


This must have been CGI. But it felt real.
There were people walking around wearing funny clothes and some
people who didn’t look like people at all. They looked like they
were made out of cigarette smoke. Marv turned to walk to one a
dozen or so yards away and was suddenly standing in front of
her.


“Uh, hi,” he said, feeling off balance.


She scowled at him and evaporated. He turned
and saw her reconstitute and float down the street. She passed
through a man walking with a woman and they both waved and spat as
if flies had landed in their mouths.


Marv went to cross the street to speak to
the couple but when he zoomed in front of them the woman yelped and
the man waved his funny-looking hat furiously. He wanted to laugh
but he floated in the air, a tinny-sick feeling radiating from his
lower teeth down to and winding around his shin bones.


A taste like saccharin burned at the back of
his throat and tongue. He zipped around the man and woman who
looked ready to strike again. Marv tried to catch up to the ghost
he’d just seen but she was moving too fast. He passed by several
more people and slowed when he saw other ghosts. He—


 



Hills yanked the helmet off, furious. Marv
blinked at the light, disoriented. He hadn’t heard.


“I said, what the hell do you think you’re
doing?” Dell peaked out from behind Hills, wide-eyed.


“Marv, you okay?”


“I was just doing the machine. What is that,
CGI?”


Hills said something long and complex.
Necro-something. Marv stared at him. “It’s a machine that speaks to
the dead. You should have been able to see his memories and
navigate around his mind. You were doing something else. What the
hell was it?”


Marv explained to him what he’d experienced.
The sights, the smells, how real it all had appeared, how sick he’d
gotten when the man had touched him.


“It’s not supposed to be that way,” Hills
muttered to himself. “They’re dead. The memories aren’t
interactive. Could he really have gone there?”


“Gone where?” Dell asked.


Hills looked at Dell as if for the first
time and thumbed a button on his remote. A moment later a teenager,
squat and muscular with a stern expression stalked into the room.
Hills stood away from Dell and the boy spun him around and leapt on
his back, folding around until his body was completely above Dell’s
shoulders. Dell staggered at the considerable weight combined with
the boy’s massive thighs wrapped around his neck. He collapsed to
his knees and flopped over onto his back in less than twenty
seconds.


The boy got up and looked at Marv.


“How’s my time?”


“Oh, I dunno,” Hills said. “Thirty
seconds?”


The boy cursed himself.


“Him?” he said, looking at Marv.


Hills put a hand in front of the boy when he
took a step. As built and tall as Hills was, Marv was sure the boy
could take him. He realized, looking at the two with the set of
their shoulders and posture that these two were closely
related.


“No,” Hills said. “Where’s your mother?”


***


 



Gunner finally had her right where he wanted
her.  He strolled out of the bathroom with his hands in his
pockets.  His skin wasn’t fiery hot because he hadn’t put on
the make-up for a change.  There would be no need for that
this morning and perhaps never again.  Besides, she needed to
see.  The things she had done to him, both inside and
out.  He was a freak because of her.


“Hello, Sandra.”  He had dipped his
voice into that low tone he used with the ladies, only he wasn’t
going to bed this one.  Gunner gripped the revolver in his
pocket, turned it up so the end of the barrel pressed against his
pants pocket—a snub-nosed erection.


Her mouth fell open and she half stood,
knocking over some of her crappy wood and bone chotzkis. 


“Mm-mm.”  He shook his head and she sat
back down and closed her mouth.  She looked at the chotzkis on
the floor but didn’t make a move to pick them up.  Good
girl. 


“Slide over.”  She moved over to the
other end of the couch and stared at him. 


“I heard you was lookin’ fa me.”  He
snorted at the phony accent, sitting on the other end of the couch
with the gun in his lap.


“Any guess why?”


“Why else?  You blamin’ me fa sometin’
you ask fa.”


Gunner leaned forward, his arm snaking out
and bouncing the butt of the gun off her forehead.  She’d
leaned into it, surprisingly, leaving a nice little split an inch
above her eyebrow.  She must have been trying to knock herself
out.  Must have guessed he wanted her conscious for whatever
he wanted.


He had to keep his anger in check.  She
was a woman, but she was unpredictable.  She probably had a
knife or something she could hurt him with.


“First, drop the phony accent.” 
Exotic-looking she may have been, she was anything but.  He’d
done a background check and she was from Cleveland. 
Cleveland.  “The next time I hit you with this it’ll be with
the business end.”


She blinked the fog out of her eyes. 
He hoped she had a concussion.


“Can it be undone?”


“What?”  No accent.  Better.


“Don’t play with
me.  This.”  He gestured to his face with
his free hand.


“What do you think?”


He wanted to smack her again, but pointed
the gun at her instead.


“If all you got is lip I may as well kill
you now.”


“Okay-okay.  The marks?  No—I
didn’t do that.”


“The hell you didn’t.  You put that
thing on me to-to let me call up the dead.  The next day I
woke up like this.”  He put his gun hand back on his lap.


“It wasn’t me.  I swear.  I
do—have done the ceremony a dozen times and nothing like that has
ever happened.  Look, I’m more of a courier—I don’t actually
talk to the dead.”


“So you don’t know what you’re doing, you’re
saying.  You mean you screwed up.”


“Yes—no.  What I’m saying is not
everything can be predicted.”


“Why didn’t you tell me that then?”


“Look, I’m in the business of giving people
what they want.  If I told you every little detail of what
might go wrong it would probably scare you off.”


“This is a little detail to you?  I
can’t go outside without putting on a keg of Max Factor.”


He could tell by the wildness in her eyes
she’d say anything. Too bad she didn’t know he was going to kill
her no matter what. The only difference was if he would do himself
next.


“Am I that stupid looking
to you? I don’t know, I think I’m kind of a smart guy. Smart enough
to catch you. Maybe you’re
the dumb one. Maybe you’re too stupid to realize
I’m onto you. Hold out your hand.”


“What?”


He cocked the hammer back.


“I don’t ask twice.”


She slowly raised her hand, her eyes locked
on the gun. Good. She hadn’t seen him slide the blade out of his
other sleeve. He lashed out, slicing her palm open.


“You’re crazy!” She snatched her hand back,
cradling it in the other.


“Probably.” He stood up and retreated to the
little desk against the wall. “But I’m also a fast learner.” He set
the knife on the counter and opened a drawer, taking out a clear
glass flask, carefully unscrewing the top with one hand and keeping
the gun trained on her.


Her eyes widened with realization. She leapt
at him, her teeth bared and hands fixed to tear into him with those
long black fingernails. She was fast but just too far away and made
herself an even easier target when he fired two shots, one going
into her gut, the other shattering the glass tabletop.


She landed in a heap, half cradling her
knees to her chest, moaning.


“And I know the dead don’t lie.” He kicked
her in the back of the head and her moaning stopped. He had to move
quick. Even in this crappy neighborhood cops were bound to come
snooping when there was gunfire.


Gunner put the gun on the table and picked
up the knife. He dipped the skinny blade into the clear contents of
the flask and shook the whole thing gently. The contents clouded up
then turned black.


He hadn’t understood until now why it was
called a glowing black. The liquid itself cast a shadow in the same
way light glowed. He was mesmerized by it until she started
convulsing on the floor. He really had to hurry. He steeled
himself, drew the knife out and downed it. He instantly regretted
not having this stuff in a wider mouthed container as it glugged
out of the flask. But he finished it, wiping his mouth on his
sleeve which began to sizzle and smoke.


What’s this stuff doing to my teeth? he
wondered.


Gunner looked at her on the floor in full
seizure. He wished he’d brought a camera.


“Sorry, babe, gotta go.” He whacked her over
the head with the mallet he’d hidden in the drawer and she lay
still. He found a very weak pulse in her neck and smiled as it
slowed to a stop. Gunner unfolded a sheet of paper that had her
real name printed on it at the top and another name, made from
rearranging the letters of the printed name in his sloppy scrawl
beneath. He cleared his throat and spoke the name as if speaking
above a roomful of semi-loud people.


“Y-yes,” her body sighed in an otherworldly
voice. That was the other thing he’d learned about all this. Night
time wasn’t a necessary ingredient. Just another falsity to make
the whole magic thing scarier, sexier. It wasn’t even magic. No
such thing.


This was so cool. Now he really wished he
had more time. He stepped back to give her room. She wasn’t moving.
Why wasn’t she moving? He said the name again. Still she didn’t
move, but she said, “Yes,” again.


“Hey, you’re supposed to rise.” He nudged
her with his foot. Nothing. Had he done something wrong? “Rise,
already.”


His father’s words to him the other day came
back to him. He’d screwed up again somehow.


The knife was still on the table. He picked
it up and examined it. If he was going to be a screw up he may as
well be the best one possible. It would be a huge embarrassment for
the Old Man when the cops found the dead tattooed body of his son
alongside a murdered ex-prostitute of dubious employment.


Hell, it was better than his original plan
of just hanging himself in his apartment.


Don’t think about it, just do it, he thought
to himself.


He grabbed the handle by both hands, turned
the blade inward and began jabbing himself in the heart.


By the fifth time he realized it wasn’t
working. He plunged it in again and looked as he withdrew the
knife. Gunner tore his shirt open and felt the skin there.


He wasn’t cut.


Gunner hurled the knife and it smacked
harmlessly off the wall. He dropped his head into his palms and
wept. Let the cops come, he would confess everything. And he’d make
sure to drop his father’s name as often as possible. The Old Man
had been hands-off enough with the whole thing that he probably
wouldn’t get busted but he would be shamed out of the boardroom at
least.


There was something warm
at his back. Gunner turned, thinking she had played some kind of
trick on him. Her body was still on the floor; he put his hand out,
trying to feel for something
right in front of him.


Bright golden light exploded in the dark
room. Gunner fell back, shielding his eyes.


“I’m… dead?” When his eyes finally adjusted
he saw a glowing figure floating several inches off the floor,
kneeling over the body. It turned and looked at him. From what
Gunner could tell it was the witch he’d just killed.


“You killed me?” it asked.


Gunner pushed back up against the wall.


“Don’t hurt me.”


“There is no reason to be afraid, Joseph.”
She glided over to him and reached out a hand. He tried to push
back even further. Nobody called him Joseph except his parents. “I
forgive you.”


“You do?”


“Yes. You freed me.”


“I did.”


“There is work yet to be done.”


“What… what do you mean?” Gunner looked
around for the knife. Her skin brightened and he saw markings that
were similar to his tattoos. He summoned his bravery.


“Did you do this to me?”


“No. Those are markings of your destiny. The
universe needs you.”


“Me? Why me?”


Her hand touched his cheek and it burned.
No, not his cheek, the marks on his face, then all over his body.
It was unbearable, but he couldn’t move away. Gunner screamed and
just as suddenly it stopped.


“One who has endured much suffering was
needed,” she said. He opened his eyes and looked at the mark on his
forearm. It slid beneath the skin, like a fish slipping beneath the
surface of a lake. Gunner sat up and saw the same thing all over
his body. He stood.


“I have forgiven you, but the world’s ills
are upon you. You can be the savior of all.”


“I can?”


“Yes, but you must submit.”


“How do I do that?”


“Fall to your knees.”


Gunner dropped in front of her.


“Do you give yourself freely to the will of
the Goa’agnol?”


“The what? What’s that?”


“It’s another word for the universe.”


“Okay. Then yes. I submit myself to the will
of… of that.”


“And of your own free will you will stand in
for the T’iant?”


“Tee-what?”


“It means… uhh, hero.”


Gunner wanted to be a
hero. The hero.
His father would look like a fag compared to what he was about to
do.


“Yes. Yes, I will stand in.” He put his arms
out, his chest swelling with pride as she placed a hand on his
forehead. The marks burned again as she spoke rapidly in another
language. He felt something from her come into him and his skin
glowed until she let go.


“Is that it?” he asked.


“Yes.” She floated back over her body and
smiled.


“Thank you.” He teared up and wiped his nose
on his sleeve. “What do I do now?”


She giggled as she faded away. Gunner stood,
his limbs jerking to life of their own accord.


“What the hell?” he said, spinning around to
face the door. He took several unsteady steps forward, bent,
grabbed the knob and yanked it off.


“Stop,” he said to himself. “I’m a hero.
Stop now!” But his arm raised and smashed through the door. “No!”
he screamed over and over as he walked out, unsure where he was
being led. He brushed past two bummy-looking people who paid him no
mind. Gunner stepped into the street and a car swerved around him
without slowing. Gunner’s head turned to the sky, his eyes fixing
on the gibbous moon, still present in the early morning sky. He
howled with a voice not his own and leapt skyward.



OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












 



 



 



 



Reset


 



 



 



 



The phone hadn’t rung all
night. He’d picked it up over and over again hoping she’d call. His
beautiful little Seleste. How could he have allowed such a terrible
thing? His only daughter cursed as her mother had been. His wife
had been willing. She wanted to know his culture so when he had
revealed the douchou to her she had taken it into herself. He hadn’t asked—she had
volunteered.


She’d gained thirty pounds within two weeks
and had picked up steam from there. It had upset her as with any
woman, particularly because she’d been very petite before. He’d
taken good care of her, but he’d had to move her to the basement
when it became obvious she’d be too big for the house to
support.


He’d explained that in
order to host the douchou
it was necessary for the hostess to acquire mass
from everything it touched. It didn’t matter if she ate or not, it
would still happen, but if she didn’t eat she would
starve.


Hugo had hoped it would leave and his wife
could return to something like normal again. He had told her it
could kill her, but she’d still accepted it.


His wife’s body had dissolved, reduced to a
loose pile of grains of sand. Seleste had seen her mother’s remains
and asked, “Will this happen to me?”


He broke down and wept,
holding his taller, much bigger child. She’d been on the heavier
side before and already it was a labor for her to move around since
she’d become host to the douchou.


“Yes,” he confessed. “I did not want this
for you. I was obligated.”


But she’d been more
concerned with what the boy Marvin would think. It was a symptom of
hosting the douchou—complete self-absorption. She’d come back to the house but
he knew she was already gone. He went to her room just before bed
to find she’d disappeared and had been waiting by the phone ever
since. He knew it was hopeless, that he was the last thing on her
mind, but he had to hope.


He picked up the phone again to check if it
were working and was surprised to hear a voice on the other end
saying his name.


It was the
douchou.


“I need you to go home. Prepare a place for
me. I am weakening.”


Most who knew of it thought it was a god,
but he knew better. It was a parasite. Not just of whoever was its
host if it needed one, but of the world. It had come here at some
point and had been feeding off the Earth ever since. At least that
was what he believed.


Even he’d worshipped
the douchou at
one time but after it appeared to him years ago he thought it
seemed lonely more than anything else. How could a god be lonely?
But it had a constant lost child look as if it had been left
behind.


“Weak?” he asked. He knew
what the douchou meant. Not weak as in vulnerable, but weak as in losing its
ability to control its own power. It had shown him a place two days
outside his village where it had become weak and scorched away all
life as far as the eye could see. The douchou claimed to have no interest
in ending human life, but he had seen that once before
too.


There was no choice.
Whatever he felt for his daughter had to wait for him to complete
the call ceremony. Actually, if the douchou wanted it done now, then
that meant it would be leaving soon.


And leaving his daughter.


He stood, suddenly
excited. Perhaps there was time enough to save her. The
douchou needed a woman’s
womb to ‘rest’ when it was away from home for a significant amount
of time. But even there it could only stay so long. Hugo ran out of
the house and had to run back in for his keys and passport. He
would spend every dime if he had to to get back home. His every
prayer would be devout and he would perform every dance and
sacrifice the largest animal he could steal even if he didn’t
believe.


***


 



Part of what makes Morrisites Morrisites is
a mind bred to process information in unique ways. They go through
years of vigorous training, both mental and physical, eliminating
ninety-nine percent of all candidates until they locate that
special one percent.


Unfortunately, these minds tend to be
extremely prone to schizophrenia, bi-polar disorder or a host of
other mental illnesses.


In reality, Wendy had only stood there after
the cop pointed his gun at her. She hadn’t moved a finger when Byrd
told her the cop had shot him. Events had played out in her mind,
but her body had done nothing. A doctor long ago had told her
mother this ‘physical shut-down’ happened in times of extreme
stress and could last anywhere from a few minutes to several days.
She’d gone quietly as he cuffed her and shoved her in the backseat
of the cruiser and threw Byrd in a heap on top of her.


The cop had gotten in the car and raced off,
screaming about his ear, clutching a wad of formerly white napkins
to the free-flowing wound. For some reason he wasn’t waiting for
the police that were slowly weaving through the clot of traffic
trapped behind Dale’s wrecked car.


Wendy came out of her fugue state several
miles later. She looked out the back window to see sirens of other
police cruisers just behind them. Their car picked up speed rather
than slow down.


She spotted her bow-tang in the front
passenger seat, but before she could begin to think of a way to get
her hands on it there was a hard left and she fell over onto Byrd’s
legs. She tried to wiggle her way back up but her arms were trapped
behind her and Byrd’s legs were like lead weights against her.
Wendy lay there listening to the screeching of the tires and the
cop swore and confessed the vilest things as if seeking absolution.
Sex with women, sometimes men, diseases he had contracted and the
cancer he realized God had cursed him with for his sinful ways.


This went on for almost ten minutes, with an
abbreviated version of the Lord’s Prayer mixed in, until there was
a tremendous swerve that sent Wendy onto the floor in a tangle with
Byrd. The cop got out to be greeted by a chorus of screams of,
“Drop the weapon!” and, “Get down!” Seconds later came a cluster of
pops, a few of the bullets tinging off the doors of the cruiser.
Wendy had managed to get on the seat on her back and saw the cop’s
face, ear stump and all, sliding down the window, the life draining
from his eyes.


Someone yelled, “Clear!” and she heard the
clatter of metal on concrete. She felt the door open behind her and
wormed around to see a new cop staring at her in the morning
sun.


“Thank God for you!” she cried in her best
tear-choked voice.


“Okay, let her up. Easy.”


LaGina blinked several times as they sat her
up, her eyes slowly adjusting to the sunlight.


Sunlight? Damn, the babysitter.


She mumbled something unintelligible to her
own ears and flopped back down in whatever chair she was sitting
in. A middle-aged man in a wrinkly suit and a chesty blonde hovered
over her, genuine concern in their eyes.


“Gina, you okay honey?” the woman said.
Linda. That was her name. The man in the suit was Henry Quint.
“Look, I don’t care what Gun says, we need to take her to a
hospital.”


“Agreed,” Henry said. His face looked
different and it wasn’t just the daylight. He looked less haggard,
like a man in his early fifties rather than his late sixties. He
almost looked happy.


“You’re going to be all right.” Linda
disappeared into another room while he held LaGina’s hand. “We all
are. My Katie’s at peace.” He smiled. LaGina realized Mr. Quint was
more than just ‘at peace’. The way the two of them fumbled around
each other like a couple of teenagers it was obvious they had slept
together.


At peace. Could he be talking about last
night? Everything inside LaGina’s head felt like she was swimming
through mud. She wasn’t herself. Then she remembered the spirit
floating above the table and seeing its face.


Stout!


It had been him. She tried sitting up again
and everything colored with red polka dots. She loved him but
wanted to kill him too.


“Think we should call an ambulance?” Linda
said in the background somewhere.


“No. It’ll take too long. We need to
hurry.”


Linda reappeared and they pulled her to her
feet, both taking an arm. “Why?” As they stopped at the front door
to open it she saw a slack face in the mirror on the wall by the
door, like there was no muscle beneath it. She was horrified when
she realized it was her own. LaGina moaned.


“I think she may have had a stroke.”


***


 



Vittorio had gotten the call yesterday but
hadn’t had the time to go to the dock. Russian whiskey, a ton of
it, ‘misdirected’ into a dock only he and Tony knew about. All he
had to do was be a warm body for this meet and he could go see to
it.


But then a cop jammed a revolver into his
ribs, directing them all inside. They all filed in, obviously the
cops working with the Torres. Vittorio stood on the end of the line
praying they weren’t about to do what they were about to do as the
men, cops and robbers, raised their guns and began firing.


***


Kelly woke with a start. He was surprised
he’d fallen asleep so easily, but he hadn’t really slept much. Anna
or Israel, whoever, had pulled into a convenience store parking
lot. He didn’t know where he was but it looked like the East
side.


“What are we doing here?”


Anna turned around.


“I wanted to give you a little time to rest.
When you were little the children had their own urban legend,
didn’t they? They called him the Green Man. He lived in the alleys
and slept in dumpsters and sometimes he would snatch up a little
girl or boy who was never seen again.”


Kelly nodded.


“Your memory of him is
both true and false. Very few children actually saw the Green Man
and what he was snatching was not real children, but shadow
children—tools—not the real thing. If we saw what they really looked like
we’d call them demons. They posed as children and would lure them
to secluded areas and kill them. The Green Man was sent, another
tool, to protect as the other side doesn’t want more spirits coming
over. But he was blamed for the deaths of a few local children and
parents who remembered him from their own childhoods found him and
burned him alive.


“The Green Man was part human, the part from
the other side had to bond with a living creature in order to work
properly. But I’m sure you know that’s how these tools work.”


“Okay, I remember the Green Man, but how do
you know about it? I’m guessing you didn’t grow up in Highland
Park. Besides, that legend died out by the time I was in fourth
grade or so.”


“I know because Israel knows. He knows a lot
more than he’s told you with good reason. He’s afraid of what
you’ll think but you have to forgive him. It wasn’t his fault.”


“What wasn’t his fault?” Kelly sat up.


“I’m sorry, I’m explaining this all
wrong.”


“What are you talking about? What wasn’t his
fault?”


“The Green Man was a general protector of
children. Israel was your personal protector.”


“What are you—”


“When you feel pain, Israel senses it
beforehand. That way he can keep you from serious harm. His
connection with you was severed three years ago in July.”


Kelly didn’t like what he was hearing. His
eyes narrowed.


“Where are you going with this?”


“An event that was so painful… too
heartbreaking.”


“Say it.”


“You need a minute. I do too. Hold on while
I get something out the trunk. Taze, a little help?”


“Geeah (pronounced JEE-uh).”


They got out, leaving Kelly with the zombie.
Ed, Anna had called him after shooting down Taze’s suggestion ‘Ice
Z’. It was chilly in the car; she had the air cranked all the way
up to keep the smell down. He was in an advanced state of
decomposition and had a glass-eyed stare.


Kelly picked up the Febreeze and gave him a
spritz. The cold could only do so much.


He thought about what Anna said. Had Israel
been there?


From the moment he met him Kelly had had a
feeling like he’d known him. But Kelly would never have
guessed.


He felt violated. That Israel had been
around him all this while and hadn’t told him and worse still he’d
felt what was about to happen to Kelly’s family and did
nothing…


They were dead. The obscene part was how he
could be alive when he’d been in the car with them. Alive and
completely unharmed.


Kelly mumbled as his mind raced. Ed had been
staring straight ahead, but then his head rolled in Kelly’s
direction. His eyes were still foggy, but Ed was looking at
him.


Tears streamed from Kelly’s eyes, but
suddenly he was afraid. Ed blinked and rested his rotting hand atop
Kelly’s.


“Fine,” Ed rasped. “All fine.”


Kelly sat there, unsure what to say or do.
Ed made a face as if confused or frustrated.


“Martha,” he said. “Lilah, Amanda. All
together. All fine.”


“Martha and the girls?” Fresh tears streamed
from his eyes. Kelly was stunned when he heard laughter in his own
voice. He didn’t understand it, but somehow this dead man telling
him his wife and children being all right in the afterlife was a
tremendous relief. Even more amazing was that he believed him.
Kelly put his arm around Ed’s neck and gave him a squishy hug. He
let go and a string of goo stretched between them and broke.


Kelly’s nostrils stung from the smell and he
spritzed him again. Ed lifted his hands, examining his flesh.


“Oh,” he said.


“Who are you?”


Ed looked around and his eyes settled back
on Kelly.


“Les… Lee.”


“Your name is Les Lee?”


Ed—Les—nodded. It rang a distant bell,
but Kelly was certain he’d never met anyone named Les. He knew a
Lee in grade school but that was his first name.


“Okay, I think it’s safe to leave the z-man
here,” Taze said, opening the door. He grabbed Ed by the tattered
shirt collar and pulled him out. “C’mon, homie.” Taze shut the door
and double-tapped a sideways peace sign to his own stomach before
hopping back into the passenger seat. Anna shut the trunk and got
back in too.


“Should we really be leaving him here?”
Kelly asked.


“He won’t last much longer,” Anna said. “We
really didn’t need to bring him to begin with. He just… got in and
I wasn’t going to stop the car at the time and put him out.”


She passed over a pile of magazines to
Taze.


“Look at the porn we got!” he said. “We got
Japanese stuff, old lady stuff, big titty stuff. You wanna get down
on any of this?”


“Uh, not right now.”


“Sure? We got some gay stuff too.”


“I so didn’t need to know what a power
bottom is,” Anna said. She put the car in drive and they pulled out
of the lot and away from Ed.


“Nah. I’m good.”


“Skillet, you cryin’?”


“No. Ed was getting pretty putrid.”


“Use the spray, man. I’ll crack my window.
You should too. The police ain’t around.” Taze started peeling an
orange, putting the scraps of skin in a paper bag. He threw the
orange out the window and put his nose in the bag, breathing deep a
few times.


“So to whom are we taking the porn?”


Taze turned around and looked at Kelly.


“What was that, Yoda?”


“Remember what I told you
about the Green Man?” Anna said. “The human part of him died, but
the other part didn’t. The… the machín part. It survived and found
other tools like it and they made a kind of amalgam. Israel knows
about them because all machíns
are hunted on this side. Nothing is supposed to
leave the other side.


“Hey, did you know spirits of the dead are a
nuisance over there? We’re like their version of flies. Generally
harmless, but annoying. They haven’t figured out a way to swat us,
though.”


“Okay, but why the
porn? When
Israel—you—made me buy it I didn’t ask because it was just so far
out of left field.”


Kelly had a bad feeling about the direction
they were heading. He was right, it was the East side. He spotted a
street sign and saw they were on Jefferson. Why would she be
driving down here? Nobody was supposed to come here.


“Are we going to Downeck?”


“Yeahhhh boyyyyyy!” Taze said.


“It’s developed a taste for it. The porn, I
mean. It can point us in the direction of Stout, but we have to pay
it a kind of tithe first. It should be somewhere down this alley. I
can feel it.”


Anna turned on the radio. At first he
thought it was Warren Zevon but then it started into a verse and it
was Kid Rock. Kelly’s stomach did flip-flops. Everyone knew this
was a bad place to be. Once an affluent suburb nestled within the
city but something had happened. Daring teenagers came here and
never were seen again. Or came back wrong. Or came back dead.


But some residents had stayed, like they
were immune to whatever was happening here. Kelly had learned
through osmosis not to ever come here.


“Don’t buy that urban legend crap,
home-team. I used to come here all the time when I was a teenager.
Besides, I got the click-clack in case anything jumps off.”


A lone dumpster was halfway down the alley.
The car bounced and jostled as they crawled to it.


“Israel saved my life,” Anna said. “He could
have left me in the bed to be devoured by that thing but he let it
get him instead. Here we are. Gimme your stuff.” She held her hands
out to Taze. He handed the stack of dirty magazines over. “All of
it.” Kelly saw the title as he passed over a magazine titled “Tight
Gilfs” with a barely covered blue hair in a choker on the cover.
She looked thirsty.


Anna rolled down the window and dropped the
magazines out next to the dumpster and pulled up a couple feet.


Something large slammed against the
side.


“Whatever you do, don’t open the door.” A
moment later the car began rocking. The pace quickly picked up.


“Aw, ill, man.” Taze popped a pill in his
mouth and dry-swallowed.


The car’s shocks had gotten a thorough
workout before the rocking abruptly stopped. After a minute, Anna
opened the door.


“We should be good now.” She got out. Taze
and Kelly looked at each other and followed. Whatever it was was a
formless mass that seemed a different color depending on the angle.
It was half slumped against the rear tire and it looked like it had
eaten the magazines.


“We want Stout Roost.” Anna’s voice was
commanding. A little louder than necessary, Kelly thought, and with
a tinge of nervousness. Kelly wondered if it was safe to be near
this thing.


It moved. Faster than he could see and it
was suddenly an exaggerated shape of a man, dark green with broad
shoulders and a waist as thick as one of Kelly’s thighs, but
instead of legs it stood on a black triangular base. It had an
iridescent pink ‘arm’ wrapped around Anna’s neck, pinning her to
the car.


Taze went for his gun, but Anna waved him
off. It didn’t speak but its headless torso leaned in and Kelly
could hear it sniffing.


“We want him,” Anna said.
“Now.”


It held her a moment longer then its grip
loosened. The appendage fell down to its side and reabsorbed into
its torso. It seemed to have lost its ability to maintain form and
began sliding back to the ground.


A giant, lidless ovular eye opened in the
melting mass and looked at Kelly. He took a step back as the thing
puddled into the ground and floated down a sewer grate peaking out
beneath the car, the eye open and staring the whole time.


“So what’s poppin’ next?” Taze asked.


“Now we go,” Anna said.


“That’s it?” Kelly asked. “That thing almost
kills you and now we just go driving around again? There should be
something more to it than that.”


“I don’t know what to tell you. Maybe that’s
why Israel didn’t want to come here. A great deal of what he
believes is what you believe. Maybe you’re right and this is just a
waste of time. I figured it’s better than nothing.”


“Maybe we should check out that last house.
The one where Stout went.”


“You know where it is?” Anna asked.


“Yeah. I think I figured it out.”


“Well then tell me on the way.”


***


Someone took the hood off Jemen’s head. She
was tied to a chair in a small room with pale, cinder block walls.
It was cold in here.


“You sure are a
pretty thing,
aren’t you?”


She focused on the man in front of her. A
bulky baldheaded man with a gap-toothed smile. Jemen cocked her
head at him, pondering how she might kill him once she removed the
binds.


“Do you understand English?” he said slowly
and louder than he needed to. She wondered if she should tell him
that because this universe was an offshoot of her own that she
could understand and speak every language that had ever been spoken
on this planet.


He traced his fingertips down her cheek and
across her collarbone. If he dared to go lower she would rip his
fingers out by the roots. As if sensing her agitation he pulled his
hand away and slumped in a folding chair across from her.


“Relax. I wouldn’t touch
you with a flamethrower, beast.” He took a trial size packet
of wet wipes out of his shirt pocket, took one out and began
vigorously cleaning his hands. His breathing became pronounced and
he closed his eyes, rubbing his hands even faster until he seemed
to reach a moment of ecstasy.


He sat still a moment, pressing the tattered
wipe between his hands. His eyes were a bit foggy when he opened
them. She could beguile him into letting her go, but she wondered
what these people intended. Perhaps divinity would lead her to her
quarry if she were to trust where it had led her so far.


But what of her son? The others were old
enough to take care of themselves, but he was not even a day old.
What had he done when he came outside and found her gone? While he
was big he wouldn’t be able to fend for himself. She was finally
thankful he had taken the form of that homeless man. Most people
would simply ignore him. And even if he’d been arrested he would be
fine in the custody of the police until she’d accomplished her
task. She could come for him then and not worry about being
clandestine.


The man sitting across her neatly folded the
remnants of the wet wipe and placed it in a small trash receptacle
by the wall.


“What do you call yourself?” he said in a
loud voice.


“I am called Jemen.” She decided the silent
treatment had gone on long enough. Time to find out what these
humans wanted. He seemed taken aback.


“Oh, so you
do speak. Good. What is
your goal here?”


“I am tied to a chair. I would like to get
out.”


“I mean
here. On this planet.
Y’know, not in hell.”


“You know me? That I am not of your
world?”


“So you
admit it! You are a
demon.”


“Demon. I am not familiar with the term.
Explain.”


“It’s what you are. That’s all you need to
know.”


The gray door behind the man creaked open. A
petite man with iron black hair and square glasses stepped in. He
wore a black suit that was too big for him with a red tie. He shut
the door and walked up behind the man, his eyes fishing up and down
between Jemen and the back of the first man’s head.


“Charles, what are you doing?”


The man spun around in his chair.


“Jesus! Mr. R. you scared the crap outta
me.”


Mr. R. continued to stare down at him.
Charles stood.


“I was… I was just
talking to her. I
mean it.”


“You have no need to speak to such a divine
creature.”


“Divine? Mr. R. she ain’t divine, she’s a
demon.”


Mr. R. rolled his eyes.


“You have no concept of symmetry. I only
meant the word in that she is something far beyond human.”


True. Jemen was glad she had not broken the
ropes. She may not have been able to get so close to this one.
Capturing Charles’ mind would have been a simple task and more than
likely a wasted effort. This was the one she wanted. He appeared to
be one who was in charge.


“Leave now, Charles. I will deal with this
one.”


“Yes sir.” Charles stepped around the
chair and left the room without another word. Mr. R. sat in the
chair, but squirmed around until he appeared to have found a
comfortable spot on it. He put his legs together, knees almost
touching, but was so short he had to point his feet to touch the
floor. He clasped his fingers together and rested them on his legs,
almost as if he were trying to push down on his lap.


“Would you like water?” he asked.


Jemen shook her head. His eyes, a deep
brown, appeared much larger than what they probably were behind the
thick lenses of his glasses. But there was a power behind them.
This man, despite his size, had commanded men all his life.


“What is the purpose of your visit?” His
voice was gentle, above a whisper, but not by much.


“Visit?”


“Surely, you do not intend to stay. Do
you?”


It occurred to Jemen that he had let Charles
come in first as a means of testing what she would do. Clever, but
she could still kill him if she wanted.


“No. Once my purpose is accomplished I will
leave.”


“And what is your purpose, may I ask?”


“To gather the tools to save the world.”


“To save the world from what?”


“The end.”


“What is the end?”


“You would not understand. What are your
intentions with me?”


“It depends. If you assist us in stopping
the agenda of your kind we will simply kill you.”


“And something much worse if I don’t?”


He didn’t answer.


“Perhaps I can propose something different.
Something that may be an ends to accomplish both our goals.” She
smiled. Let them try to kill her, they would find out how much of
an impossibility that was.


“What is your proposal?”


“There is a man I seek. He has something I
need. A great power. I do not want to kill him, but this power must
be taken away.” An incomplete truth, but enough to set wheels in
his mind in motion.


“What is this man’s name?”


“Kelly Greene. He is
searching for the host of the television show The Ghost Toucher.


“Stout Roost?” Mr. R. leaned forward. “He is
missing? I love that show.”


Jemen thought less of the man. Humans had an
obsession with this television she did not comprehend. Perhaps
because they had nothing like it on her world. Why watch a
reproduction of a thing when you could simply go and see it for
yourself?


“It would be easy to verify what you’ve told
me. Especially about Stout Roost. We will take what you told us
under consideration.” He rose.


“And until then?”


“I will arrange for more… comfortable
accommodations. Just because we are adversaries does not mean
dealings between us cannot be civilized.”


“Thank you.”


He nodded, turned and left as quietly as he
came.


For some reason Jemen was unworried about
finding Greene. She also wasn’t worried about finding her son.
Providence was at work here and she was truly curious how it would
play out.


***


 



Ren-Jon shut the door, his legs barely
beneath him. Despite his outward appearance he was rattled. Charles
stepped up to him, a big grin on his face. Ren-Jon put up a hand
and passed him, heading for the basement stairs. He would not lose
his heir of leadership in front of the others.


“Did the beast at least tell you where
Wendy, Dell and Byrd are?”


He ignored the younger man, going upstairs
and cutting through the kitchen and heading for the bathroom. There
would be time to figure out where those three were later. He passed
Mama by, stirring something in a pot over the stove.


“Renny, when you gonna take out the
garbage?” she said in thick-accented English. “Three times I ask
you and you still no do it.”


“I’ll take care of it later, Mama.” He
stepped out of the kitchen, across the thin hallway, into the tiny
pink bathroom and shut the door. He rushed the toilet, threw the
lid back and collapsed to his knees. He barely pulled the tie to
the side before he hurled.


“Don’t you make a mess on your father’s
suit,” his Mama yelled at him through the door. “And why you got it
on, anyway? You trying to impress your creepy friends? I don’t want
any of them taking out the garbage. They didn’t put the lid back on
right and the animals get into it.”


“Are you almost ready to go? I’ve got an
interview later today, Mama.” Ren-Jon stood. His legs were still
shaky, but a lot better than before. He was unsure if he could take
being in the presence of an actual beast again. It was too much for
him. He was more of an in-theory man. He’d gone through all the
training and kept himself in peak physical and mental condition,
but it just wasn’t in him to do anything beyond planning.


He stared at himself in
the mirror. Thirty-nine years old, but he already had deep bags
under his eyes and gray at his temples. It was what happened to his
people, Morrisites, because they were special. Able to do things common people
could not. But in exchange they aged faster or worse were plagued
with mental disorders. He took the bottle of Scope out of the
medicine cabinet, swished some around in his mouth and spat it out
in the sink before placing the bottle back.


Ren-Jon washed his hands and stepped out of
the bathroom. Whatever Eastern European dish his Mama was cooking
he wanted no part of it. He’d never liked any of it growing up and
had promptly stopped eating it when he turned sixteen and got a
job. He’d been embarrassed whenever she spoke her native language
and even though he understood it, refused to speak it until she’d
had to speak English or not talk to him at all. He’d been grateful
the Morrisites had found him when he was twenty three. He’d been
rescued.


But they were greater then, in number and
influence. Now they were barely hanging on as an organization.
Depleted of funds as most of them were incapable of holding down a
job for any length of time. He’d used the meager trust fund his
father had left for the cause, but had to take a part time job to
keep the group fed. Most of them lived at home with parents or
friends. Byrd lived in a state run home that allowed him to be
furloughed into the care of friends for brief periods of time.


Their one hope was the newest recruit, Cindy
LeCroix. She was a distant relative of the Morris family and was
due to receive a lump sum payout upon her twenty first birthday.
She wasn’t truly one of them, but had investigated her family tree,
finding Goode’s bastard secret in the Morrisites and immediately
sought them out. Ren-Jon had taken her under his personal tutelage,
shielding her from the others as they would recognize she was a
phony. Ren-Jon was going on an interview of sorts. He was going to
see her, to make sure she wasn’t ‘neglected’ before she got her
hands on that precious trust fund.


“Do I look all right, Mama?” She stopped
stirring what looked like a pot of boiling cabbage. She looked at
both sides of his face, licked both her thumbs and smoothed out his
eyebrows.


“You have a face like your papa.” She
slapped his cheek. Not because she was angry, but it was her way of
telling him she was done looking him over. “Tell your friends they
have to leave. I don’t want them in the house while I’m gone. You
wanna take some with you?” Ren-Jon shook his head. Blintzes were
the one dish his mother made he could actually eat, but he already
had a taste for some slawse. He grabbed the bottle from the
refrigerator and unscrewed the top, dipping three fingers into it
and spooning it into his mouth. Delicious. For some reason he and
the others all had a taste for it. His mother made a face.


“I wash my hands and I’m ready. Go on.” She
waved him away.


He peaked down the basement stairs and told
everyone they had to leave before he went out the back door. Mary,
a tall thin black woman with her head in a scarf was there. She was
smoking a home-rolled cigarette with Charles.


“So what do we do with the beast, Mr. R.?”
Charles said.


“Let her stew for a while. I have to check
on some things.”


“You want me to come with?”


“Unnecessary.” Ren-Jon took the house key
off his keychain. “I’m taking my mother to the doctor’s. You and
Mary hang around, keep watch. I’ll call when we’re on the way back
and you can leave then. I have a sensation she could cause a lot
more trouble than she has, but do nothing until I return unless
absolutely necessary.” He opened the door to the black Caprice
Classic and got in. “She has given us information that may be of
use to us. If it is, you will need to get her out of the house to
kill her. I don’t want my mother disturbed.”


Ren-Jon’s mother came out after the rest of
the Morrisites filed out in front of her. She got in on the
passenger side and shut the door as he turned the key in the
ignition. Mary waved with her cigarette hand as he pulled out the
driveway. The others would probably go to a Dunkin Donuts a couple
blocks over. Charles winked at him with an over exaggerated
nod.


The survival of the Morrisites might depend
on what they could glean from this beast. Ren-Jon was nervous to be
leaving her in the care of someone like Charles. Hopefully Mary
would keep him balanced.


 




OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












 



 



FLIES ARE MUCH BIGGER IN
THEIR DREAMS


 



Flies are much bigger in their dreams,


Some have feathers,


Some have iridescent wings,


They like to stand on hind legs


And walk in fly shoes,


They eat people food,


And they read Fly News,


Yes, when flies sleep


They’re not such silly things,


Much like pants,


One at a time, they put on their wings


 



 



 



“What?” Anna
asked.


“The White Pages,” Kelly said. “I remembered
at the first house where Israel and I went there was a White Pages
there. It had a sheet torn out, but someone had drawn a circle on
that page and left an impression on the next one. I tore out the
sheet behind it and kept it. Once I realized Stout was the one
who’d circled the name I put my sheet on top of the same one in
another White Pages and saw the name he’d circled. It was for this
address—Belinda Moore.


They were still in Downeck. It had clicked
for Kelly that maybe they were here for something else and once
he’d found the Moore address it was all the reason he needed.


A little elderly woman with wide eyes
answered the door.


“I don’t know any Stout Roost,” she
said.


“Ma’am, why do you think we’re here about
him?”


“I know things. Just know ‘em. Don’t waste
my time.”


“Well we don’t want to keep you, Ma’am,”
Kelly began, “but do you have a spirit in your home?”


She narrowed her eyes. There was a groan
somewhere inside. She turned her head.


“No,” she said, her voice
a whisper. “He came here and I sent him away. Now
you go away.” She
slammed the door.


“A husband?” Kelly asked Anna.


“Nah, G,” Taze said. “It’s the love you
can’t talk about.”


Anna and Kelly turned to him.


“What do you mean?” Anna asked.


“The ring on her right ring finger. It was a
weddin’ band.” Kelly made a face as if he didn’t understand. “The
old tattoo on her arm. A labris?”


“Ohhhh,” Anna nodded. Kelly looked at
her.


“Get off my porch!” Ms. Moore shouted from
inside. They walked down the creaky stairs and across the
sidewalk.


“What?”


“Let’s say short of the cable guy you two
are probably the most beef she’s ever had in her house,” Anna
said.


“You mean she’s a…”


“A card-carrying member.”


“Probly a founder, knaemean?”


Anna looked into the sky.


“I think we’d better get out of here. We’ve
been Heard.”


“What do you… oh.”


“It’s that thing again? From before?” Taze
seemed excited.


They got in the car and Anna started it up.
By the time they’d gotten to Jefferson the sky was dark. Anna
turned and by the time she blew through the first light it had
reached the taller buildings lining the street to either side.


“This one’s going to be close. Close your
eyes if you need to.”


She stomped on the gas and raced around a
green Taurus in front of them. Kelly looked out the back window. A
single dark cloud had formed and was rapidly approaching.


“If you can go any faster, now’s the
time!”


She didn’t say anything, but cut around a
car crossing through the intersection. A piece of the cloud shot
out like a missile and hit the street right in front of them. Anna
swerved into the left turn lane to get around it.


“Are we fine? Are we fine?” she shouted.


Kelly patted himself down. He was.


“Taze, you all right? Taze?”


The taller man had slumped to the side in
the front seat, his forehead against the window. He was making
choking sounds and twitching as if he were in the throes of a
seizure. Kelly grabbed his shoulder and Taze’s hand latched onto
his.


“Machín,” he rasped. Kelly tried to pull his hand away but he was
caught in an iron grip.


“Taze, what the hell is wrong with you?”


“Hey, stop that,” Anna shouted. “Stop
it!”


“Machín!” Taze leaned over to Anna
and let out a ear-piercing screech.


And then he was gone.


The cloud was gone too.


Actually, all the traffic on the road was
gone.


“Anna, what happened to Taze?”


Israel turned around and looked at Kelly.
Israel-Israel; not Anna-Israel. He raised his eyebrows and shrugged
his shoulders.


“How do I stop this thing?”


“The brake. The-the pedal on the floor in
the middle.”


Israel pressed down on it and the car spun
to the side and bounced like a balloon in slow-motion. The car
eventually rested upside down.


“Let’s get out of here before that thing
comes back.”


“Yeah,” Anna said.


“Anna? That you?”


“Yes.”


“What happened to Israel?”


“What do you mean?”


Kelly kicked out the passenger side window
and crawled out. The engine was still running and Anna rolled hers
down first before getting out.


“I’m probably going to have to pay for
that,” she said, looking at the busted rear window.


“Hey, your eyes.” Anna’s eyes had returned
to normal. “What the hell is going on here?” Kelly looked around. A
fog had descended as far as he could see and there was nobody
around, not even cars.


“I wish I KNEWWWW—”


The street folded ninety degrees and Anna
fell over the edge. Kelly caught her arm and saw. The sky was bent
at the same angle. The car was gone. She was perpendicular to him,
but gravity had changed to vertical instead of horizontal where she
was. He lost his grip and she caught onto the street at his
feet.


Kelly peaked over the edge
and saw debris falling, literally, down the street to be swallowed up
in an approaching wall of fog. Wind whipped in all directions as he
bent over and held his hand out to her.


“Take my hand!” he shouted.


“You’re nuts!” she screamed.


“No! My hand!”


“Don’t you see that?”


“What?” Kelly turned and saw a towering
cylindrical mass that had not been there before, looming overhead.
The street behind him had collapsed away, making a thinning bridge
of asphalt where he stood. He couldn’t see the top or bottom as it
came out of the wall of fog about two hundred yards away. It bent
in the middle as if made of rubber until it was about thirty feet
from Kelly.


It was made of flesh. Arms and legs and
torsos all pressed together. The tower was ragged in spots where
the limbs that didn’t bend had broken, jagged bone protruding from
gray wounds. It had several rows of windows, each at least five
feet wide and there was a giant white thing inside passing by the
windows on the top floor.


No, that was its eye. The tower had an
eye.


Several stories down a crack appeared across
the face at least twenty feet in length. The tower opened its mouth
and roared at them, a huge mattress-looking tongue slowly lapping
across the strip of street and coming Kelly’s way. He looked at it
and saw it was made of torsos, but with thick, long quills sticking
out of it.


“Come with me!” Anna grabbed him by the pant
leg and yanked.


“No! Don’t pull me—I’ll fall!”


“That thing is going to eat you!”


Kelly looked over the edge again and saw the
fog was a few feet beneath her. Where the hell had Israel gone?
Anna’s toes dipped into the fog.


“It doesn’t really make a difference.”
Israel clapped Kelly on the shoulder. Kelly jumped and turned to
see him smiling.


“Where did you come from? What happened to
you?”


“I’m in and out. Picking out a good spot for
us on the other side.”


“Other side? What are you talking
about?”


“We made it. I didn’t think that thing in
Downeck could do it, but it did. And just in the nick of time too.
That patrol was onto us.”


“So what? Are we dead?”


“No. We can’t die.”


“What do you mean we can’t die?” The flesh
tower’s tongue was about twenty feet away.


“Do you know what a psychopomp is? Never
mind—I’ll explain more in a minute. In the meantime, someone’s not
coming with us.” Israel peaked over the edge.


“How you doing down there, Anna?”


“I’m okay. Are you coming?”


“No. You go on ahead.”


“I’m-I’m scared.”


“Here, I’ll help you.” Israel walked over to
where her hands were and stepped on her fingers.


“Ow! What are you doing?”


“You need to go back, Anna. You’re not
dead.”


“What do you mean, she’s not dead,” Kelly
said. “I’m not either.”


“In. A. Minute.” Israel stomped on her
fingers with each word. Anna lost her grip and scrabbled to grab
on. She fell a couple inches into the fog and bounced, rising into
the air.


“You’ll be fine,” Israel said. “I moved you
someplace safe.”


“What about you? What’s going to happen to
you?”


“We have to figure another way back!”


“How will I find you?”


“Don’t worry about it. We’ll figure that out
later!”


And then she was a dot in the sky, too far
away for them to hear.


“I don’t think I can jump down there. Will
we bounce?”


“No, we won’t bounce. We’ll go aaaaaaall the
way down.”


“Down?”


The tongue was five feet away. Kelly moved
over a few feet and stopped. The street had crumbled and fell away
on that side.


“I don’t want that thing eating me,” Israel
said. He didn’t seem worried, though. “Hurry up, already. I want to
get going.”


“I don’t know what to do. I just—”


Israel picked Kelly up by the arm. He
floated into the air and then Israel threw him at the flesh tower’s
mattress-tongue. Kelly spun around and watched as Israel waved and
stepped off the edge. Kelly screamed as he clawed and kicked at the
air until he stuck onto the tongue and was sucked into the tower’s
mouth.


Everything went dark. And stinky.


***


It had not made it in time. The police had
already arrived and so had two ambulances. There was a crowd of
people the lesser blended into and no one was looking at its
bloodied face and clothes.


The Hated One was loaded into the rear of
one ambulance, a woman it had not seen before in the other. A
policeman was talking to the tall, pit-faced one as he sat in the
back of a cruiser with his feet out the open door. It recognized
him as the same pit-faced man the Bradley had beaten outside the
first McDonald’s and the same man who had shot the Wilson Sheriff.
It had no use for him.


The nearest hospital to here was DMC, but
one of the EMTs had checked the Hated One’s wallet and said
something about going to Henry Ford on the Boulevard. It was tied
into the Bradley on every level and now felt what it understood to
be hope. Hope that the Hated One still lived. Or else it would be
the one the Jexclp’ar came for next.


It turned on its bicycle, weaving through
the throng of people as the ambulances drove off in the opposite
direction down the alley. It would wait for them to arrive.


***


 



They had taken her right away. She was stuck
in a hallway in the Emergency Department with her purse stuffed
under her arm and hooked up to an IV. Someone had taken blood a
while ago, but she hadn’t seen anyone for what felt like an hour at
least.


Someone in the hall was moaning. Nobody had
bothered explaining anything. There were beds on either side of the
hallway, creating a narrow aisle doctors and nurses raced up and
down at random. LaGina hated it here.


She kept trying to get out of the bed or
pull the IV off and every time someone would come along and ease
her back down until a couple nurses put her good arm in a
restraint.


Her cell made a long, continuous buzz in her
purse. The nurses must have forgotten to turn it off after they dug
inside for her health care card and ID. She’d heard somewhere that
cell phones disrupted hospital equipment. She was horrified at the
idea of an MRI machine flinging out some little old man. LaGina
flopped her limp arm over to reach for her purse, smacking her hand
into the wall. She couldn’t tell where her numb fingers were going
so she shimmied her other arm beneath the purse and pushed it onto
her chest.


It was still going. A nurse was standing a
few feet away, looking at a chart or something. LaGina grunted,
still unable to speak, then grunted even louder. The woman looked
directly at her then walked away. LaGina sighed in frustration.


Another nurse came from the other end. She
heard his squeaky shoes before she saw him. He had a buzz cut and
sea green eyes. He checked on the person in the bed across from
hers. Then he turned and looked at her.


“How we doin’, honey?” He thumped her IV a
couple times then put his fingertips on the underside of her wrist
while he stared at his watch. “This strap too tight?” he said.
LaGina nodded. “Brandon must have done this one. He always does
them way too tight.” He lowered his voice to a whisper. “I’ll
loosen them just a little, but you gotta be good for me, okay?” She
nodded again.


“I’m Marty, by the way.” He loosened the
restraint. “Now look, you’ve got room enough to make a little fist
and knock on the wall.” He made her hand into a ball and rapped it
twice against the wall. “See?” he said. “Anytime you need me,
m’kay?”


LaGina nodded. He spoke to her like she was
six, but if it got her closer to the phone she’d take it.


“Whatchoo doin’ down here?” the nurse who’d
been looking at the chart earlier said. “This ain’t even your
floor. Go on, Marty.”


“What?” Marty said, turning toward the
woman. He kissed her on the cheek without stopping as he left.
“West Side, Friday night?”


“You know it.” The nurse didn’t bother
introducing herself. LaGina remembered her from earlier. She went
to retighten the restraint, not paying attention to LaGina’s
whimpering. Could she not hear the phone?


Then an announcement came over the
loudspeaker for a code blue.


***


 



They couldn’t have known but it was already
too late for Collie. Even if the fifth bullet that pierced his body
hadn’t gone through his heart, even if he hadn’t left half his
total blood volume in the valet area, even if he wouldn’t have
drowned from the blood in his lungs he was a goner. Collie knew
himself in those fatal remaining seconds and that there was no
hereafter for him. He was empty—drunk clean of anything worthy of a
heaven or a hell. It wasn’t just the cancer that had left a cavity
in him. He was as dead as one could possibly get.


He’d never met Velma, one of the nurses on
duty, but she had just finished adjusting the restraint on a lady
who had stroked out and was trying to hurt herself. But she
squeezed the bag to give Collie a steady flow of oxygen as the EMT
performed chest compressions. Every time she squeezed air gurgled
out of a hole in him somewhere. She said a prayer for him and shook
her head.


A doctor ran alongside the gurney. He
flashed a pen light in Collie’s eyes. Fixed and dilated. The last
remnants of Collie reached for the light even as he was being drawn
away into oblivion. The doctor called time as soon as they got into
the operating room.


“Was this the one from outside?” he heard
the doctor ask. Collie felt frothy, incorporeal, then nothing at
all. “Well, he picked a good place to get himself dead.”


***


 



“He should be up and walking around,” Dr.
Hayes said. “Couple bumps and scrapes, but he responds to stimulus.
His CBC’s fine… So far we don’t know what’s wrong with him.” The
students gathered in the already crowded hallway. Some took notes.
“The woman he came in with was pronounced as soon as she came
through the door. As you can see we’ve put these kind people in our
best guest suite—” he gestured to the crowded hallway and the
students laughed. “But we’re hoping to move half of them into rooms
by tonight and discharge as many of the rest as possible. Now
moving on…”


***


The lesser had misjudged how long it would
take to get here. Construction on the Boulevard had slowed it down,
even blocking off the sidewalk, diverting traffic to a side street.
By the time it got to the hospital it had been delayed at least ten
minutes.


As it stepped into the lobby a man in a
security uniform rushed over and asked, “Sir, do you need medical
assistance?”


“No,” the lesser tried to say, but its jaw
was broken, sudden sparks of pain making it cry out. It had never
experienced pain before inhabiting this body, but had quickly
developed a deep appreciation for it.


The guard rattled off something in a walkie
attached to his shirt. A man rushed over with a wheelchair and
insisted for the Bradley thing to sit.


The man wheeled it into the Emergency
Department waiting room filled with several other people and left.
The Bradley thing looked around. There was something wrong with
these humans. Many of them had injuries, but there were others that
appeared physically intact yet seemed injured. One man leaned
forward, opened his mouth and spewed out some sort of white-yellow
fluid. The people near him groaned, some got up and moved. Even the
Bradley thing recoiled.


It wondered if the man had some sort of
internal injury. The Bradley thing waited a few minutes and when no
one returned it went up to a woman behind a glass enclosure and
tiny desk.


“Excuse me, madam, but I need emergency
service.” It was easier to speak if it held the side of its jaw in
place.


“Sir, I am so sorry to hear that, but I am
helping customers as quickly as I can. If you could just have a
seat for me over there I’m sure one of our other representatives
will be with you in just a moment.”


“Thank you,” it said, but something about
the tone with which the female spoke was disingenuous, even
patronizing. The Bradley thing realized this was sarcasm being used
upon it.


The lesser felt offended. It had an urge to
go back and put its fist through the glass and grab her by the
throat, but was unsure if this was its own desire or the human it
inhabited. It looked around the room and saw an electronic box
mounted on one of the walls. There was a human dressed in all white
with a large mustache on the ‘screen’ who had just fallen in a mud
puddle. Two thin female humans in ‘bikinis’ and ‘sombreros’ stood
by. “Oh, ChíChé,” they said in unison and shook their heads. The
Bradley thing felt a tightening in its middle that quickly loosened
and tightened again. A sound escaped its mouth. It was ‘laughing’.
The lesser looked around and saw others were doing the same.
Perhaps this was a previously unassessed injury, but it seemed to
have taken a mild amount of relief as the tightness in its
shoulders eased.


It had an idea. One that wouldn’t call for
it damaging the human woman. The lesser let itself swoon and
collapsed to the floor.


***


The doctors finally left. LaGina couldn’t
risk them seeing the nurse hadn’t tightened her strap. She tugged
until the center metal thingy in the buckle popped open then
concentrated on her middle and index fingers, willing the strength
into them to grab the strap and slowly tug at it until it came
loose. She pulled her hand free and grabbed her little purse,
digging inside until her hand closed around her cell.


She looked at the number, a string of
sevens. LaGina was just about to thumb the ‘IGNORE’ button, but hit
‘SEND’ instead.


“Hello? LaGina?” a man said on the other
side. It sounded a lot like Kelly Greene. “We need your help.”


***


 



An indeterminate amount of time earlier,
elsewhere.


 



“What… was that?”


“That’s why I didn’t want to go see that
thing in Downeck,” Israel said. “It’s too risky and you can’t
predict when or how you’ll cross over.” Kelly looked at him, not
Anna, but Israel. He looked like his old self, mostly, except his
face had been softened, more feminized. Kelly slugged him.


“You!” he shouted.


Israel picked himself up and stood back.
Kelly drew back again.


“Wait-wait-wait!” He held up his hands. “I
can explain.”


“Explain? You mean how you
let my family die? How exactly do you explain that?”


“I always knew where you were—anywhere in
the world. I felt it. I’d been watching you since you were a little
kid, feeling everything you felt, but when I felt that it broke me,
literally. For the first time ever I was lost. I tried finding you,
but at first I had no idea where to go. By the time I found you, I
was… obsolete. It was all I could do to save you.”


“You should have saved them first.”


“As long as I’ve watched over you, watched
you grow, fall in love, have those children—it was like they were
my children too. I loved them. But I had to save you. I had no
choice… you have to survive.”


“I didn’t. I didn’t
survive. Don’t you know it killed me when they died? I didn’t even
get scratched and you’re telling me you couldn’t do
anything to save
them?”


“Look, we need to move.
The patrols will be able to find me here a lot easier.
Broken machíns
are supposed to report immediately for destruction and they know by
now I don’t work right. And when they see you…”


Israel ushered Kelly down the street. A few
people had noticed them. A child stared openly.


“The innocent can see us for what we really
are. Children, the mentally infirm. We’d best try to fit in. Act
like everybody else.”


They stepped over a giant green mound that
looked a lot like feces.


“When we first met, all that stuff I told
you about a Listening Ear was B.S.”


“Oh, really.” There was a ton of sarcasm in
Kelly’s tone.


“Yeah. I mean, the Listening Ear is real,
but it’s only real here. It was a lot easier to explain than saying
this world’s version of the police were after me because I’m a
criminal.”


“So this is where you live? Where you’re
from? I’d destroy it if I could. I really would. Then you’d
understand.”


“You shouldn’t say that,” Israel said. They
came up to an abandoned store with plate glass windows still
intact. Israel stood him in front of one and Kelly could see a
golden glow coming from beneath his clothes. He lifted his shirt
but saw nothing there, but he did notice his navel was gone. “This
is where you’re from too.”


“What?” Kelly said, touching his stomach
where it was supposed to be.


“I told you—the living from this world can’t
go into the other one. Space without a suit, remember?”


“But you… a-a-and me?” Kelly pulled his
collar down to see if he could find where the glow was coming
from.


“That’s why Anna couldn’t come. She’s not
dead. She had to go back. Look around. See those misty-looking
people? Spirits.”


People were walking around, dressed warmly,
but Kelly felt no cold despite wearing only a dress shirt and
slacks.


“Remember the little girl?
The ugly one? I told you she’s a weapon. A tool. That’s why she was
able to come over. She’s a machín. Like me. Like
you.”


“I’m not a
ma-whatchamacallit.”


“Look,” Israel hustled Kelly into an alley.
“The word doesn’t exactly translate into a human language, but
that’s what we are. Someone made me to follow you, keep you safe in
that world. Because if you die there, you come back here. If you
come back here I cease to have a purpose.”


“But I am here.”


“I know. But they don’t yet because you
didn’t technically die. We have some time to get you back. My
programming’s defunct, but now I can choose what I do and now I see
the greater purpose. I want to protect you.”


“Wait, you said nothing here is allowed over
there. Then how could they send you to protect me?”


“Because you could destroy the world.”


A group of men were kneeling around a tree
stump, holding what looked like thick playing cards low enough for
each man to see with weird symbols on them. Each man had a small
stack of thin black sticks by his right hand.


“Dealbreak,” one man said. The others
groaned.


“Bull,” Kelly said. The man peaked over his
shoulder at Kelly and Israel.


“No. True.”


“Then who built me?”


“No one. To my understanding, you sort of…
built yourself. There’s this war going on between any number of
Greaters. There are hundreds if not thousands of them. But they’re
all equal. One kills another and takes his power or another steals
power away from one. It’s chaotic, but on the whole, balanced.


“They’ve been fighting forever. Until one
day one of them realized they weren’t quite as strong as they used
to be. Somehow a little bit of that power, energy,
kool-aid—whatever—had become sentient and removed itself from the
conflict. It wasn’t enough to pose a threat by itself but if any
Greater were able to acquire it that Greater would have the
Deciding Difference and be able to unify all dimensions. And that’s
bad—dimensions unified means all existence is done.


“At least, that’s what the scientists say.
And not even all of them. Nobody really knows, so most of us want
to keep it exactly as it is.”


“Wait a minute, wait a minute. If there’s
this great war that’s been going on since forever, where is it?”
Kelly looked around. “I mean, it looks pretty serene around here,
if you ask me.”


Israel pointed up.


“Up there.” Kelly looked into the sky for
the first time and it didn’t look like anything he’d seen before.
They sky was a pale brown, but it looked solid. Veiny-looking, blue
and green squiggly lines. Kelly saw other faint circular lines. The
more he stared at them, the more they looked like…


“Fingerprints?”


“Something like that. It’s skin. The outer
atmosphere developed it as a means of protecting the surface and
everything on it from what they’re doing out there. It has an
umbilical thing that goes into the surface of the planet. It uses
it to suck nutrition out to feed itself.”


“That is… disgusting.”


Israel shrugged.


“Okay, go on,” Kelly said.


“So this Deciding Difference, with the aid
of like minds, escaped to the only place the Greaters couldn’t
follow: your Earth. Time between the two dimensions doesn’t pass in
a consistent manner, so the past thirty-one years for you has been
thousands of years over here. So long ago that except for the
Greaters and a choice few others you’re an urban legend. A
religious myth. Lessers are known for being zealots so if the one
that saw you had recognized you it would have pursued you to no
end. If a Greater catches you—” Israel snapped his fingers—”just
add hot water; instant entropy.”


“Why don’t I remember any of this?”


“I don’t know. Maybe you and whoever thought
that was for the best. Maybe it was before you had an actual
mind.”


“All right. I’ll bite for the moment. But
since we’re on the other side I want to see my family.”


Israel scratched his head.


“That’s another problem. They didn’t come
here. When I found you, just before the accident, your wife was
still alive. When she transitioned, I checked and couldn’t find her
over here. I would have felt her if she had come over, even if I
didn’t know where over here. Near as I can guess is you put them
elsewhere.”


“Elsewhere. But how could I? I don’t know
anything about this. I don’t even believe half of it.”


“Reflex. Subconscious. If you could remember
you probably thought of some place just before the crash. I’d bet
that’s where they are. If Earth is in another dimension who’s to
say there aren’t an infinite amount of others?”


A spirit passed by the alley on the opposite
end.


“Hey, isn’t that that woman from my office?”
Kelly said. “The one from the controller’s office?”


“I didn’t see.”


They went down the alley and saw the spirit
of a woman floating away.


“Is that her?” Israel asked. “What’s her name?
Dolores?”


The shape of the hips was familiar. She’d
made a deep impression on Kelly in the few seconds they’d spoken.
She turned to the side and Kelly saw her in profile.


“That’s her.”


“She’s not dead,” Israel said. “She’s half
in, half out. I don’t know how it happens but it does sometimes.
Most people mistake them for stroke victims. Did she have a droopy
face when you met her?”


“No.”


“Then it must be recent. If we hurry we can
use her to get back. Like a fishing line.”


“How?”


“With that.” Israel pointed at Kelly’s hand
which was suddenly holding a bulky cell phone. “All we have to do
is talk to her here and have her over there find your body.”


“My
bod—I’m not dead, am I?”


“Not yet, hopefully. If you were found in
enough time you should be in a hospital be—”


The man from the Dealbreak game in the alley
stared at Kelly, towering behind Israel. He narrowed his hawkish
eyes at him, twitching his nose over his mustache.


Israel turned and saw the man staring and
then put his arm around Kelly’s shoulders and pushed past him. The
man raised his hand and pointed as his buddies pulled him back to
their game.


“Another zealot,” Israel said. He may see
you for what you are or he may only suspect.”


The man screeched.


“Okay, he knows. Let’s pick it up.” They
walked in the direction of the woman’s spirit.


“LaGina,” Kelly said. “She said her name was
LaGina.” They got to within ten feet of her and Kelly waved. She
didn’t seem to notice, but didn’t move away.


“I think you have to call her on that.”
Israel pointed to the phone. Kelly looked and saw eight full bars
on the display. He hit ‘SEND’ twice and a string of sevens popped
up as the phone began to call. It was one long ring. Kelly stopped
by some abnormally sweet-smelling trash cans, LaGina hovering about
five feet away.


After about two minutes someone finally
picked up.


“We need your help,” Kelly said.


Just then the man from the alley was
standing a few feet away from Israel. He screeched again, jabbing
his finger at them. LaGina’s spirit reeled back from them and all
the bars on the phone disappeared.


Kelly turned and looked at the man. He was
wearing some kind of long jacket, buttoned down on one side with a
built-in pair of pants.


“Hey, could you not do that?” Israel said,
putting his hands up. Kelly looked around. People were starting to
notice.


LaGina’s spirit was all the way down the
street. She seemed to be caught in a leafless tree and a little boy
dressed in what looked like a peach-fuzz basketball from the neck
down looked away from them and began swinging a stick at where
LaGina’s feet would have been if she had any.


“We have to call her back, but we have to
get rid of this guy.” Israel took a step closer as he tried to step
around him to get closer to Kelly. “Why don’t you run around the
block and I’ll hold him up here?”


“He can hear you. Why wouldn’t he just
follow me?”


Israel turned his head to Kelly and
blinked.


“Why would he know what I’m saying? He
wouldn’t know English.”


“Uhhh. Didn’t he just speak it in the
alley?”


“No. Many of the words are the same, but the
syntax is completely different.”


Kelly shrugged and took off down the alley.
He’d seen a few spirits so far and none of them had feet. He did
and he was quickly getting winded. Maybe he should exercise more if
he got back. Maybe there was something to what Israel was saying,
but it just couldn’t be true. At least not all of it. Could he
still be lying? Holding something back? Kelly wondered. Maybe
holding back the whole story had been for the best. Who would have
believed a place like this existed?


Kelly passed by more oddly dressed people as
he wheezed and puffed his way around the corner and down the
street. A little girl with pigtails all around her head like a
chandelier smiled and waved as he went by. She wore a blue,
ball-shaped coat. An older man and woman across the street in a
coat apparently meant for two people held their free hands
together, watching him. A little boy set some boxes next to what
looked like a trash can, which also smelled unnaturally sweet. The
boy fell back, kicking the can over in Kelly’s path. He had the
same style coat as the little girl but it was cherry red with
vertical wavy stripes all around.


 Kelly leapt over the trash, wondering why the place seemed so
Seussian. It was more than the clothes that was wrong; everyone was
either middle-aged or a child who was four feet tall or less. He
didn’t see any teenagers.


He rounded the corner, crossed the alley
then turned onto the other street. He didn’t see LaGina’s spirit,
but checked his phone, seeing four bars. He pressed ‘SEND’
twice.


Kelly heard the man’s screech from up the
street. Several people had gathered around and he couldn’t see
Israel at first. But then the man broke through the crowd and
Israel was right behind him. A few people took a few steps in
Kelly’s direction. He looked at the phone and two bars had
disappeared. Kelly scanned both sides of the street above him and
saw LaGina’s spirit floating away from a white billboard.


He wondered why Israel didn’t just knock the
man down or hit him in the throat or something. Kelly crossed the
street, heading toward the spirit, remembering what Israel had said
about zealots. This guy seemed like a probable candidate. Hurting
him would only aid his cause.


Kelly followed LaGina’s spirit as best he
could but the man and Israel were gaining on him. He passed a
little boy in a pants-coat a lot like the screeching man’s and the
boy tried to grab him.


A vehicle that was literally a black
floating bubble swerved to miss him, but clipped his legs. The
bubble rippled where he hit and suddenly Kelly found himself
floating as he was enclosed in his own bubble, heading upward
toward LaGina’s spirit. She hovered around him as he slowly arced
up and back down onto the street where it popped and he landed on
his butt.


Kelly still had a bar on his phone and it
was still ringing. He spotted LaGina’s spirit floating high up on
his right. The screeching man was about thirty yards away with
Israel close behind like they were in a foot race. More people were
out and a few of them jogged behind. The screeching man tumbled and
was caught up a moment later by several hands pulling him to his
feet.


Israel passed him, crossed the street and
shouted to Kelly, “In the building!” pointing somewhere behind
Kelly. He spun and spotted the abandoned structure. Kelly ran for
it and spotted the spirit swirling in that direction.


The door was boarded up with what looked
like black plastic, but when Kelly put his shoulder into it at full
speed the stuff caught him up like a sticky web, stretching and
stopping his momentum a few feet inside. He pulled free of it and
it snapped back in place, leaving him in a dark room. Kelly blinked
as his eyes adjusted.


“Run!” he heard Israel call from outside and
then he smacked into the webbing. Kelly could make out stairs to
his left and ran to them, hearing the material stretch as Israel
broke through.


“Get on the phone. They’re coming!”


Kelly ran up the staircase, spiraling up the
outer walls of the cylindrical building. He’d lost the call and
kept looking down for a bar to show. Israel raced past him and from
below he could hear the netting tear as several people were coming
through.


“Look upstairs!” someone shouted. It wasn’t
English but he understood it.


“I’ll go out back.”


“Surround the back! He can’t escape!”


“Someone call the Jexclp’ar!”


Kelly yelped as a hand reached out and
grabbed him, nearly dislocating his arm as he ran past.


“In here,” Israel whispered, pulling him
into a room with shuttered windows. “Maybe they’ll go straight up
to the roof instead of checking room by room and we can sneak back
down.”


“Check room by room!” someone shouted.


“Craaap.”


It was even darker in here. Kelly thought
they might be able to hide, but only for a moment. Dot-sized
creatures with wings a half foot long flitted around in a rounded
corner over a pile of something dead-looking.


“What’s that?” Kelly said, pointing. One of
them glided over, stroking its wings up and down.


“Flies. Dead ones from your world. Turns out
they have spirits too. How about that call?”


Kelly looked at the phone. Eight full bars!
He redialed, peaking through the boards over the window. LaGina’s
spirit was just outside. He listened to the phone ring and the
thundering steps below getting closer.


“C’mon, pick up!” he said as two more flies
came over. He peaked outside again and saw she was still there.
There was a mini-swarm of flies around his head and Kelly tried to
wave them away. One brushed his hand and stuck to him like a
magnet. Kelly tried shaking it off but it wouldn’t budge.


“Wow. I’ve never seen that before,” Israel
said. “The Deciding Difference is supposed to be able to make a
weapon out of anything. Maybe you can turn the door into a bomb or
something.”


“Even if I were this weapon—”


“Energy.”


“—Whatever. I’m not
killing people just because they’re following some lone nut.
They’re still innocent.”


“It’s us or them and they’ll turn us both
over. The Greaters will rip you apart and use you to consolidate
the universes.”


“Then we’ll have to figure out another way
if we can’t reach LaGina.”


By now Kelly was covered in flies all lying
dormant on him. He heard the people outside and he pointed. The
flies flew off him and through the door. Outside the room people
started spitting and stomping.


Someone picked up on the line. Kelly could
hear breathing.


“Hello? LaGina? We need your help.”


The person on the other end moaned.


“She might not be able to speak,” Israel
said.


“Look, this is going to be hard to believe,
but this is Kelly Greene. We met the other day.

“Uh?” she said.


“I’m kind of not where I’m supposed to be
and I need your help. I know it’s going to be a one-in-a-million
shot, but are you anywhere near a hospital?”


“Unnh-uh-unnh unnh.”


Her spirit swam through the wall.


“I would just go on to two-three-seven,” her
spirit said. “There is no other path. The wall is softer.” LaGina’s
spirit looked at Kelly as if it recognized him and then it was
sucked up into the phone.


LaGina screamed, “Ow! That hurt!”


“You can talk. Great!”


“Yeah, I can. Oh my face. My face. My face
feels better too! What did you do?”


“I’ll explain later. Do you see anyone
around who looks like me?”


There was a pause.


“There is this guy on a gurney. I think he
looks like you. But he kind of looks dead. Do you have a twin or
something?”


“Sort of. Could you do me a favor and go
over to him and put the phone to his ear?”


“I guess.”


The door busted in and the screeching man
stood there with a few people behind him. There was static over the
line and Kelly resisted the urge to yell for her to hurry up.


“What’s all that noise?” LaGina asked.


“Nothing. Just some construction.”


“All right. Say hello.”


Israel punched the first one, but the next
two grabbed him. Kelly kicked one of them in the stomach and put
his arm around Israel, clutching onto the phone as he pulled him
back.


Then Israel disappeared.


A man in long red pants up to his chest with
a drawstring tied around the back of his neck fell down after
losing his grip around Israel’s waist. They all paused a moment;
even the screeching man was silent. But then they rushed Kelly,
grabbing at him.


They couldn’t keep a handle on him but they
did manage to push him back into the only corner in the room.
Somewhere in the struggle he lost the phone and heard it skitter
across the floor.


They crowded him, grabbing at almost every
part of him. Kelly couldn’t see for all the hands in his face.


And then he was outside, floating slowly to
the ground. The pale brown sky stretched and contracted in some
spots. Then a dark brown spot appeared. It was the lessers. Kelly
turned over and began pedaling his arms and legs, but it didn’t
make him fall any faster. They came down around him, the
surrounding buildings had a descending, darkening hue to match the
sky.


There was a screech far in the distance, but
not from a human voice this time.


Kelly turned around and saw it, descending
from a low, bulging cloud.


“Crap,” he said.


***


He opened his eyes. LaGina stared at him;
she’d never seen metallic blue eyes on a black man. She didn’t
remember them being blue when they’d met.


“Was that you who just called me?” she
asked.


“No.” He sat up, rubbing his eyes. “That was
Kelly.”


She made a face. By no means was her memory
photographic, but this was the same man she had met the other day.
The same one who was in the pictures with the woman and two
children locked away in his desk drawer.


“What?” he said. The voice didn’t match what
she remembered, either. Deeper. More nasal. He swung his legs
out.


“If you’re not Kelly then who are you?” He
looked at his hands.


“This is Kelly’s body,” is what it sounded
like he said, but that didn’t make sense. “He must not have made it
out.” He grabbed her by the arm. “Where’s your phone?” She held it
up, not sure why he was asking and he snatched it away. He pressed
the ‘SEND’ button twice and listened.


Whatever he heard must not have been to his
liking. He looked physically ill, almost.


“It’s all over.” He
sounded defeated. “The only way I can get back is to kill this
body. And if I kill this body I can’t bring him back because this
is his body.”


“What?”


“I’m not Kelly. I’m the other one. Remember
the tall white guy? That’s me. Was me. Not really, but—”


He trailed off, mumbling something about
putting him inside Anna but how even that was a long shot.


LaGina thought this was just as good a time
as any to check herself out.


***


 



The one called Charles had a gun in her
face. Jemen decided she would kill him. Perhaps she would put her
finger into his heart. Something slow enough for him to know she
was killing him.


“I know you know more than you told Mr. R.,”
Charles said. “And I want to know what it is.”


She looked up at him.


“Do you know why I haven’t
killed your master, dog? Because he was a gentleman. He had manners. You are very
rude.”


Charles laughed, but she could hear the
nervousness in his voice. He pushed the barrel of the gun harder
into her forehead, forcing her head back. Had he checked before he
came in with his gun out he would have seen she had already snapped
his ropes.


“Chuck, back off,” Mary said. “Mr. R. didn’t
tell us to come in here.”


“Didn’t tell us not to,” Charles said. “The
way I figure, if we multi-task we take these beasts down
faster.”


“Chuck, I just don’t know about this.”


“It’s cool,” he said. “I just want a little
conversation. It’s not even an interrogation.”


“Chuck—”


“Hey Mary, I’m a big boy. Could we get a
little quiet time? You’re messing up my ambience.”


The one called Mary left without a word.


“You should listen to her, Charles.”


“Don’t call me that. In
fact, don’t call me anything, beast.”


“Charles, if you shoot me you will be making
the last mistake of your life. Are you ready to do that?”


“You threatening
me, beast? I
don’t take threats. I make
‘em.”


They stared eye-to-eye a moment and Charles
leaned back. There was something about his face. Jemen realized it
and knew she couldn’t kill this man. He may have looked like an
adult, but he was just a boy. He had never grown up, but rather had
taken on the heirs of a man. She almost laughed at his stern face
as it suddenly seemed comical to her. Like a baby that had learned
some trick for the entertainment of adults.


He needed to be cared for. There was a
fragile portion of him that needed to be nourished, not shattered.
Jemen unclenched her fists and relaxed. She smiled, hoping that
would disarm him.


 



There was a loud pop from the basement. Mary
jumped, almost choking on a mouthful of blintz. What the hell was
he doing down there? She set the half-eaten blintz down and raced
back downstairs. The door was wide open and the beast was on the
floor, a tiny hole in the middle of its forehead. Blood was pooling
underneath it. Real blood. Chuck was hyperventilating, his arms
shaking at his sides as he stepped left and right over and over
again.


“Chuck, what did
you do?”


“I don’t know. The gun went off. It wasn’t
my fault.” He knelt, bashing his open fists into his forehead and
groaning.


There was so much blood. It pooled out into
the basement proper. She couldn’t let it touch her.


“I-I’ll go get some towels.”


She ran back upstairs and into the bathroom.
She grabbed the towels off the racks and the roll of paper towel
too. As she ran back downstairs she thought she’d seen the back
door open a tad, but wasn’t about to stop to check.


The beast was still down
when she got to the room, but there was someone in there with
Chuck. A skinny, tall, pale thing. Chuck was down, blood soaking
into his pants. The beast’s belly wasn’t round like it had been
before and there was goo on the creature, crouched over
him.


It looked up at Mary, its wide round eyes
seeming to plead.


“I didn’t mean to,” it said. “He’s still
alive. We can get him to a hospital.”


Mary dropped the towels and drew her knife.
She could deal with the blood long enough to kill this beast.


“Please,” it said. “Your friend needs
help.”


It would be difficult to slit this thing’s
throat in such small quarters, but she wouldn’t let it just get
away with killing Chuck. Mary advanced, crouching and holding the
knife in an overhand grip at chest level.


It watched her get closer, no doubt plotting
what its next move would be. Mary got within five feet and went to
lunge at the thing, hoping to catch it unexpectedly.


Someone grabbed her wrist and pulled her off
balance and spun her onto the floor on her side. She looked up and
saw more things like the skinny one, except these were bigger, more
filled out.


They looked like bald mannequins that had
escaped from an Eddie Bauer. They hissed at her. Snapped their
teeth and scratched the air at her. They all were holding her down,
including her hand with the knife in it.


“Don’t hurt her,” the skinny one said. Mary
looked again and saw it had changed. It had thin gray hair down to
its shoulders and breast buds. They didn’t seem to like what the
female one had said, but they didn’t attack.


“Whenever I am fatally wounded there is a
spontaneous physiological response that causes my body to
immediately give birth.” It began stripping the clothes off the
body on the floor. “I can’t wear this shirt. It’s soaked through.
Get me something more appropriate.”


“You killed him. You beast! You beast!” Mary
struggled on the floor and one of them held her head down as one of
the others let go of her leg, presumably to go upstairs.


“No, he is not dead. But he is near. After
the birthing, my body’s first response is to feed from whatever I
touch. I can take nourishment from my former body, but a living one
is preferred. If I could have made a conscious choice I wouldn’t
have.”


It was definitely female. It was taller,
with fully formed breasts and hips. It stood with the pants and
underwear taken from the body and Mary saw the pubic mound with
wisps of white hair beginning to darken as was the hair on its
head.


“Ren-Jon will destroy you. It doesn’t matter
what you do to me.”


“Child.
I will do nothing to you
and neither will my sons unless you force us.” One of the albinos
came back and handed her a striped sweater with a mock turtleneck.
The beast’s skin tone darkened to an olive and her eyes darkened to
a deep brown. She towered over the others. “I do not know what your
Ren-Jon will do to you once he’s realized you have failed him, but
if you care for Charles you will take us to the
hospital.”


“I…I—what?”


“Carry him.” The albinos let Mary go, two of
them picking up Charles. The other two stood to either side of her.
Mary could try to fight them, but if Chuck weren’t dead now, he
would be by the time she subdued the rest of them, if she
could.


Mary looked at the knife in her hand. Her
Omni was parked a couple houses down the street. She put the knife
back in its holster.


“Let’s go.”


***


Hated One. The lesser had been placed in a
wheelchair in this area and left again. Perfect. Now it wouldn’t
need to be so careful with this frail human shell. It could turn
this body into the weapon it needed to take the Hated One and
perhaps call the Jexclp’ar using the Bradley’s connection to the
other side.


He was mumbling to himself and didn’t notice
it approaching. The lesser squeezed past a short female human going
the other way down the congested hall as it refashioned its fingers
into an eight inch long bone blade. The pain was sharp, but
relished.


It longed to be away from
all this illness.
It did not like being around things it did not comprehend and these
‘sick’ people was the most confusing of all.


The lesser felt for the Bradley’s connection
to the other side and found it, triggering its individual clarion
call for the Jexclp’ar. There was no response. It should have been
instant.


Unless…


Unless too much time had
passed since it had been away from the Jexclp’ar. Or too much time
spent in… flesh.


The man looked up. The eyes were not the
same. They were more like its original quarry.


It spoke a quick series of clicks that would
initiate a reflexive response.


The quarry answered, then covered his mouth,
his eyes wide. Yes, this was him. It knew human physiology well and
with its regular hand punched him in the solar plexus. He was
stunned a moment, then doubled over in agony.


“Hey! Hey, you can’t do that!” It looked
over the Bradley’s shoulder at the woman it had just passed,
determined she was no threat and pulled the quarry upright while
standing behind him.


It felt the meaty pulse
where its fingers dug into his neck. This quarry had found a way to
possess a living body. Only a superior being like a lesser was
supposed to have that ability, not a lowly machín. More questions it would ask
later.


“Move,” it growled in the quarry’s ear,
pushing toward an emergency exit. The lesser bounced his head off
the door before they went through to keep him off balance. It had
to find a place to wait for the Jexclp’ar to respond to its call
before hospital security or police intervened.


It sensed someone rapidly approach from
behind. It threw an elbow, presumably at the person’s head, and
caught only air. Two sharp punches caught it in the kidneys
followed by a clipping blow to its ear. Had the lesser been as weak
as a human it may have succumbed to the pain but it lashed out with
its blade hand, glancing the woman’s cheek. She yelped in pain,
giving the lesser time to refashion the blade into a shackle it
attached to her wrist. It would bring them both along. She would
make a convenient hostage should it be necessary.


It dragged them both across the street with
a minimal amount of struggle. From the Bradley’s memory the Made
Goode factory was long abandoned. Perfect.



OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












 



 



 



Everyone’s
waiting


 



 



 



 



 



Mayer was still a little tipsy. Last night
had been a trip. She hadn’t been that drunk since college. Except
she bounced back from it a lot easier in those days.


The dead guy on the table had been cute.
Probably even cuter when he’d had two ears. Ah well, another lost
love to go along with the many others never meant to be.


It was probably for the best. From the
swelling and discoloration of his penis it looked like he had an
advanced case of the herps.


Her phone rang and Mayer looked at the ID
and saw it was Lisa.


“Hey, Lise.” She dropped the sheet and
walked away from the gurney.


Lisa began telling her about the party last
night and she listened, but was somewhat distracted. She’d probably
seen somewhere around a thousand corpses in all different phases of
gore, but there was something unsettling about this one.


It reminded her of her dead nana in her
coffin and how staged the whole thing looked. Like nana would get
up any moment.


She kept glancing over her shoulder at the
body of the deceased, her ear half turned to whatever it was her
friend was saying. Mayer sprinkled in an occasional, “Uh-huh,” and,
“yeah,” at appropriate intervals.


Mayer heard her say something about Scott
Parker, the guy she’d been talking to at the party.


“What? What? Did you say, Scott? Did he say
anything about me?”


“I don’t think so,” Lisa said. “Why would
he? You do know Scott’s gay, right?”


“Oh. Yeah, of course.” Mayer was
crestfallen.


There was a pitter-pat on the floor. She
turned to see Collie Eaves standing up and looking around the room.
The phone slipped from her hand. Mayer heard it clatter to the
floor but it was a thousand miles away.


He was dead. There were several bullet holes
in his chest. But he was standing.


“H-hello?” she said, her phone
forgotten.


He looked at her. Despite his livid skin his
eyes were a vibrant, soulful brown. His mouth worked up and down,
but no sound came out. Then he coughed up a glob of congealed
blood.


“Oh my God,” she whispered. “You’re dead.”
He looked at the glob with a puzzled expression then seemed to
notice his own body for the first time. He stared at the backs of
his hands with a look Mayer would have described as horror.


And then some guy with sunglasses came
in.


“Here,” the man said, taking new clothes out
of a plastic Macy’s bag. “Put these on. We’re running behind.”


The new man pulled out a pair of black
slacks, a black polo shirt, black Nikes and black sport jacket. The
dead guy leaned on him for support while putting on the pants,
letting him zip them up, then he slid the shoes on his feet. He put
the shirt and jacket on him, then pulled a pair of sunglasses out
of his own jacket pocket and put them on the corpse’s face.


All black. Like for a funeral.


Mayer was frozen against the cabinets,
pressed as far back as she could. There was a pain in her butt
where it pressed onto the counter; probably a pen or something.


She was about to relax when the man with the
sunglasses turned to her for the first time. He dipped the glasses
below his eyes, showing irises that looked like they had
exploded.


“You have a good afternoon, y’hear?” he
said.


***


 



“So what’s going on? And
don’t give me that ‘in time’ crap.” Gayle looked at
him while sipping his
Zima, a luxury he still enjoyed thanks to a contact in Japan. He
loved this place. His old elementary school now was his office.
Loved it so much, in fact, he’d converted a few of the classrooms
into a bedroom and lived here. It had all been because of
him and that machine
he’d showed Gayle how to build. It allowed him to learn things from
the dead. Rich dead people and the fortunes they’d hidden away
before they’d died. The information was still stored in their
brains, their eyes, their skin—even in the fluids still inside
their bodies. Gayle’s machine ‘listened’ to the dead and in turn
translated that info so that he could hear, see, touch, smell and
feel as they had in life.


He had been doing this with the famous and
infamous of the metro area. People whose families had begun
hospitals, owned furniture stores, became moguls in the music
industry, ran car companies. And it wasn’t just the physical items
they’d left behind. They also had secrets; deep, family-shaming
secrets the wealthy paid handsomely to keep hidden. Gayle knew
about the illegitimate children, homosexual trysts and occasional
equine encounters.


But now
his minion had done
something with the machine Gayle had only imagined. Ever
since he’d come
around Gayle had become fascinated with seeing the other
side. He had told
him it couldn’t be done. He
had obviously lied.


“Well?” Gayle prompted.


He must have been contemplating Gayle’s question, but seemed
like he might not have heard him at all. Gayle had never
trusted him fully, even with the fortune he’d pretty much handed Gayle there
was so much left to mystery. Gayle didn’t even know
his name.


“So can I go now or what?” his minion said.
Marv, his name was. They’d placed the other one in the same place
Kelly was before he’d escaped. Gayle still didn’t understand how
that happened.


He rose from a seated position in mid-air and those gold-glow
eyes were on Gayle. They didn’t intimidate him anymore and he stood
his ground.


“There are some things
even I cannot anticipate,” he
began. “I did not foresee Marvin would be able to
see the Earthrealm with the machine.”


“Hold on. There you go again with that
Earthrealm. Isn’t that here?”


“No.” He chuckled in a way that came off
very patronizing. “This is not the Earthrealm. This is an offshoot
of it. A mistake.”


“What are you talking about?”


“I suppose there is enough time.” He took a
deep breath. “A billion of your years ago, but perhaps only a
thousand or two of mine. I was a scientist. My experimentations had
nothing to do with matter or energy, it was more on the level of
mice negotiating a maze, but suddenly there it was—a ball of energy
and matter out of nowhere in my laboratory.


“It grew quickly, overtaking the building
where I worked, sapping both energy and mass to feed itself. It
took the most brilliant minds just to figure out there was nothing
we could do about it. Eventually it stopped, but not before it grew
to be a fourth of the size of Earthrealm. In those first years we
learned much from it. Huge leaps in technology. We thought we were
almost as grand as the Greaters themselves. But then the deaths
came. One in eight and anyone who came in contact with the ones who
passed died themselves. But not me. Soon it was realized I was also
the one who was there when ‘it’ happened. The fear turned into
hate. Some wanted my conversion—my people still did not know death;
we have always advanced to higher or lower states of being. But
most agreed I should be thrown into the hell I had created.


It had already been several million years
here, but only a decade or so there. I remember the angry mob at my
door. My children, crying for their father. My wife afraid to speak
for fear they would take her too.


“I went willingly solely so they wouldn’t
harm my family. They threw me into the Whitelands—that is what we
called the dimensional rift to this place—and for a period of time
I thought I had been destroyed. There was nothing but whiteness for
long and long. And then I existed. As this.”


He held up his glowing arms, deep shadows of bones beneath
his translucent
skin.


“In that moment they put me in here almost
everything that would ever happen on this ‘Earth’ became etched in
my mind. I knew a little boy would be hated by everyone he ever
knew would grow into a man who would secretly wish to be loved by
all. You want to save the world, Gayle, and I adore that about
you.”


“Wait,” Marv chimed in.
“You adore him?
This douchebag has been holding me and Dell hostage. You have us
stealing dead bodies for him and this is someone you
adore?”


He looked at Marv.


“Oh my God,” Marv said. “You have a crush on
him.”


“I do not.”


“Yeah, you do. Look at
you. You’ve got a mancrush on this guy. My god has a mancrush. I guess that’s
why we had to drop everything to make sure pretty boy had
everything he needed. Who have we all been following?”


Then he floated over to where Marv was tied
up on the floor. Gayle could only see his back, but he leaned over
and whispered something in the other man’s ear. Marv tried to pull
away and froze. The shapeless mass of his irises shrunk until they
were nothing more than tiny pinpricks in respective seas of
white.


“What did you do to him?” Gayle asked.


“Where was I? Oh yes. So I roamed this
planet for a brief time. Perhaps ten thousand years or so. But I
found once I came to a certain island I could not leave without
becoming severely weak. So I watched man from a distance until he
eventually found me. Naturally, I was worshipped as a god, though I
am not. I found a very small percentage of people over the years
who were more prone to my influence than others. These became my
followers as well and I believe they are sensitive to the energies
shared by this world and mine, but make no mistake: they are not
equal. If Earthrealm were a human body then your universe would be
nothing more than its hemorrhoid.


“Marv could see my world because there was a
part of me that was inside of him. You cannot because there is
another mission for you to fulfill. You must save the Earth.”


“Save it. So I am right and these
holes—”


“I have not seen it to its end. I choose not
to know.”


“Choose not to know? How do you do
that?”


“If there were time I would tell you. I have
to be somewhere now. But when the time comes you will choose who
shall be destroyed.”


Then he vanished.


***


The cops had been distracted with the one
they had killed and had been watching Byrd more closely than her
anyway, even though he’d been the one who had gotten shot. Typical,
underestimating the woman. It angered her but worked to her
benefit. She’d seen the beast shortly after coming in and had to
follow it. One of hers had been killed and another injured. They
would be avenged.


It had feigned losing consciousness and had
been rushed to the ER. She waited by another door and when two
doctors eventually came out she went in before the doors
closed.


Wendy didn’t know her way around but knew
the general direction where she needed to go. She avoided hospitals
as much as possible because she’d spent a great deal of time
trapped in one in her youth. She would never wind up in a place
like that again even if death were the price to avoid it.


An alarm sounded. Patients began milling
about, ranging from confused to panicked. At first she thought it
might have been a patient but then she realized a calm-voiced
person would have spoken over the intercom. They wouldn’t want to
stress people any more than was necessary.


No. This sounded more like a fire alarm. She
spotted a sign on the ceiling down the hall indicating an exit and
raced to it. She pushed the door open and stepped out, scanning
around outside.


There. About fifty yards away the beast was
crossing the street. It had a man and woman in tow. It looked like
they may have been going unwillingly, but she couldn’t be sure. She
might just have to destroy all three.


Wendy let the door shut.


She followed.


***


They’d been stopped at this light much too
long. Ren-Jon was already annoyed at having to reroute to get to
the hospital. Ten minutes late for the doctor meant at least an
extra half hour spent in a waiting room. He had to get Mama home
and over to Cindy’s before two. She had classes at Wayne Community
and he would have to wait until after eight to see her if he didn’t
make it in time.


Cindy believed in the Morrisites, but she
was a bit of a flake. He had to touch base with her frequently to
keep her in line. He had to continue her ‘training’ which largely
consisted of general exercise.


He would never admit it, but he enjoyed that
part. Cindy had a fantastic body, but seemed to have no awareness
of it. Many times she would walk around her apartment in t-shirts
and boy shorts, every supple curve displayed as she stretched and
kicked and punched. From her long legs, exposed midriff or
fist-sized breasts beneath her shirt Ren-Jon found it a chore not
to stare at her with anything but absolute lust, but there was
something more important than temporary pleasure. But perhaps if he
could convince her to relinquish her trust fund if he were more of
a guiding force?


No. It would be too risky. If he were to
convince her to marry him no doubt her family would suspect he was
after her trust fund. He was technically old enough to be her
father. It would be better if it appeared to be her own idea to
donate her trust fund to the foundation he had set up that would
fund the Morrisites’ future endeavors.


The Caprice Classic idled at a red light.
Henry Ford was just ahead on the right, a cluster of red and white
buildings surrounded by a black iron fence. As the light turned
green he spotted a woman stumbling out into the street. A tall
blonde and from here it looked like Wendy. Wait, it was Wendy. What
was she doing in the hospital? She was deathly afraid of them.


He couldn’t worry Mama, but he had to get
her out of the car. He had to find out where Wendy had been and,
more importantly, where she was going.


“Mama, I’m going to drop you by the front
door, in the valet area. Y’know, so you don’t have to walk.”


“I don’t want to go in by myself.”


“Mama, I have to find a parking spot. Your
leg—you shouldn’t be walking so much.”


“You no care about my leg. You’re a
puss-hound. You always chase after the puss. Always
puss-puss-puss.”


It was disgusting to hear his Mama speak
that way, but he’d rather her think that than tell her the long and
unbelievable truth.


“No, Mama, you’re the only girl for me. You
know that.” Ren-Jon patted her on the knee and winked.


“You not so smooth as you Papa.” She smiled
at him and slapped him on the cheek. “Just get her number and come
inside.”


“Yes, Mama.”


He stopped in the valet area, hit the
hazards and got out. A skinny teenager with red zits all over his
face sauntered outside and Ren-Jon put up a hand. He opened his
Mama’s door and while she got out he spied Wendy across the street
as she climbed through a broken window of the old Made-Goode
factory.


Why would she be going in there?


He leaned forward so Mama could kiss him on
the cheek. She etched up the walkway toward the sliding doors and
he shut the car door, running back to the driver’s side and hopping
back in. He regarded Mama for a quick moment then pulled off.


Ren-Jon was glad he’d insisted Wendy
construct two of her bow-tangs. He kept the other in the trunk of
the car.


***


Seleste had figured out
how to find him. If she concentrated really hard she could feel
him. Her father had been a weepy mess, but so what? It was his
fault she was like this. Momma was his fault too. She wouldn’t turn
into a thing like that, trapped in one room for the rest of her
pathetic life. She would find him
and make him stop doing whatever it was he was
doing. This was her body.


Marvin had stopped calling and she just knew
it was because of the weight. She was big. Real big. Seleste was at
least six feet tall and she’d screamed when she stepped on the
scale and she’d tipped at two hundred and fifty pounds. Diets
couldn’t help this kind of gain. She’d been a little thick before
all this but now she was a nightmare.


Luckily Daddy’s truck was roomy enough to
drive. She cruised south on Woodward feeling him getting close.
Seleste had been driving around in Highland Park but suddenly felt
him elsewhere when she’d changed direction.


A red light stopped traffic at the
Boulevard. Wait a minute. He was down there. She was in the middle
lane at the light with a car stopped next to her. Cross traffic
sailed east and west on the Boulevard as she drummed her meaty
fingers on the steering wheel.


A passenger in a red, rusted, cloth top
Cavalier pulled up in the turning lane next to her. He was looking
up at her, waggling his tongue between his middle and index
fingers. Disgusting.


Seleste stomped on the gas and pulled a hard
right, injecting herself into the flow of the cross traffic. A blue
Toyota fishtailed after she cut him off, smoke peeling off his
tires. Several other cars behind him had to stop, choking off the
whole lane of traffic.


She passed by one of Detroit’s finest,
stopped by the Hotel St. Regis and it pulled out behind her. Crap.
Seleste couldn’t afford the time it would take for a ticket; he
might be gone again by the time she got to where ever he was
now.


The cop car pulled in close like he was
checking her license plate. She’d slowed way down and almost didn’t
see the light turn yellow at the Fisher Building, but if she hit
the brakes he’d rear end her. Seleste let the truck cruise through
and the cop’s lights went on. She considered running for it, but
then the cruiser swung out from behind her and raced ahead. She
followed, practically riding his bumper through the next two
lights. Construction barrels were all around and it looked like one
lane had just opened. She was driving past the hospital in less
than a minute.


There. The building across the street from
Henry Ford. He was in there. Or about to be. She didn’t have a clue
how she knew, but she was certain. Whatever was about to happen
would also take the lives of a lot of people. Maybe she should
leave, but then again death would be better than this. Either this
ended today or she would die trying.


***


 



Wendy had just followed them in. The beast
was distracted with the two it had in tow. She was sure they
weren’t with him but wasn’t certain if she could save them.


She’d thought she recognized the place and
realized this was one of the Made-Goode factories. She’d been in
here on a school field trip long ago. Everything looked shut down,
boarded up and cob-webbed but a spattering of lights were on and
the constant high-pitched hum of a machine somewhere in the
distance.


Where did they go? Her instinct told her
straight ahead. Beasts typically preferred open areas for their
sacrifices and this hall was coming to a wide open room. She came
through the door in a crouch, picking up a bar on the floor. It
wouldn’t do as well as her weapon but it would do to split a skull
in a pinch. Wendy hefted it in her hand and heard rustling behind
her. She turned a moment too late and caught the beast’s shoe heel
in her chest.


The wind exploded from Wendy’s lungs as she
reeled back, her arms pin-wheeling as she stumbled back. It was on
her as soon as she hit the floor.


“Wait!” a woman screamed. “That’s not
it!”


It hesitated and Wendy saw it wasn’t the
beast but the man it was dragging across the street. He had his
fist raised but relaxed, letting his hand rest on his thigh.


“Sorry.”


Wendy wasn’t. She punched him.


He was cradling his jaw on the seat of his
pants when she stood. She offered her hand to help him up and he
was a head shorter than her. The combination of radiant blue eyes
with brown skin was odd, but she put it out of her mind.


“Hey, sorry, I thought you were that
thing.”


The woman she’d heard came out of her hiding
spot behind some palettes. Her eyes were wide, darting to every
dark corner.


“He isn’t human,” she said. “As soon as he
brought us in here his body started changing. He… he used parts of
his body to make new parts. Non-human parts.”


“Yeah, like human Lego blocks.” The man
didn’t seem surprised by that for some reason. He wasn’t even
looking around for the beast. He tied a strip of shirt sleeve
around his head over a cut.


“Do you know what it wants? Why it brought
us here?” the woman asked.


“Probably to eat us. Or sacrifice us to its
god,” Wendy said. “I’ve studied books on these kinds of things
extensively.”


The man laughed.


“You don’t know anything.
That thing, for
lack of a better term, is a bounty hunter. It hijacked that poor
sap’s body and is twisting it all up to make more efficient use of
it. The only thing I can’t figure is why the rest of them aren’t
here.”


Something fell on the floor a few feet away.
The man walked over to it, bent over to look at it and stood back
up.


“It’s his tongue,” he said. “The whole
thing, I think.”


“Aren’t you scared?” the woman said. “We
have to get out of here.”


“No reason to be scared of him. He only
wants to keep us here until the others come.”


“They’re coming for you, aren’t they?” Wendy
asked.


“Yeah. But they’re not picky. They’ll take
you too.” He sat down on a concrete block.


“Look, can’t we just go back they way you
came?” the woman asked Wendy.


“Nah. That’s a trap.”


“Not if I kill you first.” She took a step
closer and raised the pole. He smirked.


“Wouldn’t work. You can kill this body, but
not me. I’d be very disappointed if you did that, though. It
belongs to a friend.”


“Beast!” Wendy charged him and it dropped
from somewhere above, knocking her down and drumming her head on
the floor. Her eyes went back in her head, but she rolled, hearing
its mouth chomp at the air where she had just been. She turned
back, throwing an elbow into its head.


It roared and snapped at her again, but the
man pulled at what looked like its legs. Wendy got back to her
feet, but unsteady and the woman came over to help. It snapped at
him too, but seemed reluctant to actually bite, instead trying to
pull itself free from his grasp.


He struggled but held on. Wendy saw the
bastardization it had made out of a man’s body. It had the upper
head of a man, but the lower jaw was gone, a loose loop of muscle
with teeth in its place. The shoulder’s almost touched in front of
a concave chest. The arms were too long and the legs too short.
There were twice as many fingers on the hands and she realized the
extra ones were toes. There were ribs in a wreath pattern around
its head, giving it a flower-like appearance.


“What this thing has done,” the man said,
still keeping a reign on the beast, “is cannibalize this man’s body
to make itself more recognizable when the rest come. It’s not
supposed to be away from the others and if they don’t know it when
they come they’ll destroy it. They probably will anyway.”


“So if I can’t destroy you, beast, how do we
escape?”


“Who says you can’t destroy him?”


Wendy turned to see Ren-Jon step through the
doorway.


And he had her bow-tang!


Wendy walked over to Ren-Jon, almost elated
enough to give him a hug. He handed her the bow-tang, handle first.
She had a dozen questions to ask him, but first she would deal with
both of these beasts.


“Somebody’s here!” the woman said.


“Yeah, we all see him,” the man said.


“No, I mean
somebody else is
here.”


It was true. Wendy heard a door swing open
somewhere in the distance.


“Is that them?”


“No,” the man looked confused. Even the
beast he was holding had stopped moving. The steps were heavy. “I
have no idea who that is.”


***


Jemen followed the girl through the hole.
The boys had spotted her and this time Jemen had not ignored
providence. Mary took Charles across the street to the hospital and
they had parted ways. She’d had unfinished business in her eyes,
but Jemen could see this young woman was affected in a similar way
that Charles was. She would not let any of Ren-Jon’s people hurt
her or her children, but she had no intention of killing them
either. But if all went well in the next few moments it would never
come to that.


They hung back so as not to scare her, but
at some point she would have to know she was being followed. Jemen
went ahead of her sons, catching up to the younger woman.


“Excuse me,” she said. The young woman
yelped and spun around.


“What do you want?” She was clutching a rock
like she was ready to throw it.


“I believe we may have a mutual interest.
I’d like to help you.”


“Did he do it to you too?”


“Did he do what?”


“Make you big and manly-looking. I was at
least a foot shorter only yesterday before my father let him do
this to me.”


“Uh-yes.” Jemen hated lying, but she figured
it was the fastest way to earn her trust. “I never saw him, though.
What does he look like?”


“He looks like…” her eyebrows went together.
“He looks like a rainbow. I dunno what he is. My father says he
thinks he’s a god but he isn’t. But he is really old.”


Jemen had heard of such a creature. The
First One was rumored to have survived being thrown into the
Whitelands, but as far as she knew no one in Earthrealm knew with
any certainty.


“So he’s here?”


“Well, yeah. At least I think so. Don’t you
feel him?”


“No. I cannot.” The girl nodded.


“I think he’s just through here.” She opened
the door and stepped aside. “After you.”


“Thank you, child.” Jemen stepped through,
but saw the young woman’s face as she passed.


Jemen threw herself back against the door as
the girl slammed it behind her. She wedged something against it so
Jemen couldn’t get it open.


“You’re probably with
him,” the girl said through the door. “He probably sent you to stop
me. No way. I’m going to make him take this off me. He draws energy
off me. That means I have power over him. I have the power.”


“You don’t know what you’re dealing with.
Please, let me help you. We can figure it out together.”


“No thanks.”


She could feel the boys coming, but the girl
would have disappeared into the bowels of this place by the time
they got Jemen out. A fist pounded on the other side.


“Hurry! We must catch her.”


Something crashed into a wall and the door
swung open. Jemen stepped out to see her four sons. She put a hand
on her already swollen belly, wishing Three and Six were here as
well. Perhaps afterwards there would be time to find Six. Oodles
was more than likely gone unless the police had seized him along
with that rude taxi driver’s cab.


Five was agitated. He kept sniffing at the
air as if he had sensed something. He kept trying to go ahead of
the others before she realized he had found his one. Could it have
been this girl?

“Find her,” Jemen said. He ran. It was all the others could do to
keep up.


***


 



It took a while for Kelly to acclimate. He’d
been away so long.


Time over there was different or something
because he had to have been gone several months at least but the
man who had gotten him out of the hospital had told him he’d only
been gone a few hours.


He’d ushered him into a limousine in the
valet area where several other people were inside. When he sat down
Kelly saw they were wearing sunglasses.


He was sure they were diffoids but what was
he to do? Kelly didn’t even know where his own body was.


Maybe they’d found out he was this ‘Deciding
Difference’ thing Israel had told him about. Maybe they intended on
harvesting it on Earth. Despite how long he’d been gone Kelly still
didn’t fully believe he was this thing.


One seat directly in front of him was left
empty.


“Sorry I’m late,” a disembodied voice said
from the open space. A body faded into view of a nude man who was
blue, orange and red. “You are all Naked before Me. Driver, we can
go now.”


The limo pulled out into the street after
traffic was clear. The man smiled at Kelly.


“I can see you don’t remember me.”


Kelly shook his head.


“I’d know you no matter whose body you were
in. You saved me a long time ago. I studied the portal I came
through and concluded no living creature could survive the
transition. It took me a long time to realize my purpose until
thirty-one years ago I was able to return the favor.


“You came here but you needed to be hidden.
I helped construct a body for you and delivered you to a family who
would care for you.”


Kelly looked at the others in the limo.


“There is more to this than they know. Until
now they believed I wanted you captured, but it was necessary to
manipulate others to push you in certain directions. For you to
meet certain people, go certain places.” No one moved in the limo.
The driver made a left onto a side street. “They wouldn’t have
known what to do with you had they caught you.”


“Bruce Strong?” Kelly rasped.


“A ruse. I didn’t need that man and already
knew he wouldn’t be in the hospital. Just a name out of a hat.”
They made a right. “I had to put you onto the trail and he was but
a bread crumb.”


Kelly thought about the keylock Israel told
him about.


“So Stout? We’re not going to find him?”


“You’ll find him after you find the bus.”
They made another right.


“Is Israel in on it?”


“I am unsure what you mean. Is Israel
helping me? No. Has he been keeping you safe your whole life? Yes.
It is what he was designed to do.”


“My wife. My girls—”


“There was nothing he could have done. The
Greaters have been trying to kill you for a long time. Their
influence is weak here, but still present. Odds were in their favor
they would eventually get to you in some manner.”


Kelly thought for a moment. The limo made
another right.


He looked up and saw everyone was staring at
him.


“What?”


“Now,” the glowing man said, “I ask you for
the favor.”


“Favor?”


“You lend me something. It will cost you
nothing personally and you’ll have everything back as it should be
once we’re done.”


“What is it?”


“You.”


“Me? What do you mean? What do you need me
to do?”


“You? Nothing.”


It sounded nefarious, but Kelly had a
feeling he wasn’t lying. He nodded. The glowing man stood in a
crouched position and turned around. Kelly got an eyeful of butt
crack before he sat down.


Instead of sitting in his lap, the glowing
man disappeared into it. He leaned back and pushed into Kelly. He
felt saturated, full somehow, but otherwise normal. Well, as normal
as could be expected considering he was inhabiting a corpse.


The limo stopped, double-parking next to a
row of cars on the south side of the Boulevard. Cars honked behind
and one angry driver swerved around, a drink of some kind in a foam
cup smashed into the rear window as he passed.


They watched. Kelly was unsure what to do. A
woman in a red dress opened the door and another woman next to him
smiled. She leaned in for a hug and Kelly could feel goo being
squeezed out of this body. She let go and turned her legs to let
him pass. Kelly got up, bumping his head on the ceiling. This body
was much too big. He hoped he didn’t have to get used to it. He
crouch-walked and carefully stepped out.


“Uh, goodbye everyone,” he said after he’d
gotten out. “It was nice, y’know, it was nice.” The man who had
brought him out of the hospital leaned over and shook his hand.


“We can’t wait to see you on the other side,
Master. We’ll wait for your sign.”


“Yeah. Okay. Well, see you then.”


Kelly stood and saw the hospital across the
street. He turned around and saw the faded ‘Made-Goode’ sign on the
old building behind him.

“There?” he asked them. No one moved. Unsure, Kelly turned and made
his way toward it.


***


 



“I know he’s here. Where is he?” The big
girl stomped around the room. She had to have been six-six at
least, LaGina thought.


“Who?” the man who wasn’t Kelly asked. The
creature was still but he hadn’t let go of its legs.


“You know.” She leaned
forward as if in conspiracy and whispered, “Him.” She didn’t seem to notice what
Kelly was holding onto.


“Oh, hiiiiim. He’s not here right now,
but maybe if you’d like to come back later?”


“Yes, he is. Or he’s going to be.” She
clapped her hands and shouted, “Come out! I know you’re in here.”
The creature seemed aggravated and started struggling again. It
swiped at her leg and she yelped, swatting it with one of her meaty
hands. Something crunched and it lay still, whimpering.


LaGina checked on Wendy. When that little
guy had handed her that funny-looking sword she’d frozen. Her eyes
danced around in her head, but other than that she was still.


“What the hell is that?” the little man
said. Everyone turned and saw an albino crawl into the room on all
fours. He sniffed at the air like an animal and turned to look at
the big girl who’d come in the same way. He leapt at her.


She screamed and swung at him, the blow
catching him on the side of the face. He caught her arm to keep
from going down and quickly got his feet underneath himself. He was
almost as tall as her, but much skinnier. The girl grabbed him by
the shoulders, shaking him left and right like a rag doll.


He didn’t struggle and it quickly became
obvious why. Her eyes bugged in her head and she tried to shake him
off, but they were stuck together.


“No!” a giant screamed who came in the room
with three more albinos just like the first one. They all stood and
watched as her mass transferred into the albino. He grew several
more inches while she shrunk; her dark brown skin faded while the
albino’s turned olive then light tan.


She fell to the ground and the new creature
stood, looking down on her. It was no longer male, if it had been
to begin with, with curves everywhere a woman would and a man would
not. The giant walked over to it and stroked its cheek.


“Baby,” the giant said. “You’ve finally
found your One.” She looked down at the girl. “I suppose you’ve
gotten what you wanted. You shall live if you seek medical
treatment promptly.”


“H-h-help… me.” The girl’s voice was barely
a whisper. LaGina rushed over to her. There was something wrong
with her mouth. LaGina looked and saw she had no teeth.


“You’re going to be okay. We’ll get you to a
hospital.”


“Mr. R.,” the giant woman said, turning to
the little man. “Or should I call you Ren-Jon?” The little man took
a huge step back. “Don’t worry, I won’t harm you. So long as you
and yours stay well away.”


“Beast!” he said through clenched teeth.
“How did you escape?”


“Providence. You may want to accompany this
young lady to the hospital across the street and check on Charles.
Mary is there as well.”


The little man’s eyes bugged, but he said
nothing. The giant woman looked at the man who was not Kelly.


“My child,” she said. “I have been searching
for you. You and Kelly.” She took three big strides across the room
and was standing in front of him. “If only I could have been your
succor in your time of need.”


“My time?” he said. “But it was Kelly—”


“No. It was you. He was the one who was
given sympathy while you languished alone in agony. You were broken
and left alone to suffer through it. You and your brother should
have been there to comfort each other.”


“My brother?”


“Yes. I am your mother. I gave birth to you
both.” She held her arms out to him. “Come, so I may heal the wound
inside you.”


He looked unsure, but dropped the creature’s
legs. It didn’t attempt to move. He embraced her and after twenty
seconds or so a bluish white light passed from him to her and he
went limp. She sat him down on the floor and he didn’t move except
for the occasional blink. One of the albinos walked up behind her.
She turned around and embraced him. His body seemed to swell as the
same bluish white light passed into him and when she let go his
face was different.


“Mmmother,” he said. She smiled at him. He
smiled back as his skin took on a pinkish hue. He looked exactly
like the man she had seen Kelly with at the Network.


“I should slay you. I should.” The little
man was holding the sword-thing he’d given to the catatonic woman.
He looked green. “I could kill you both. Kill you all. I know
how.”


“Then why haven’t you, Ren-Jon?”


“I… I… can’t.”


The giant woman went back to her son.


“I love you, son. Everything’s going to be
all right.”


Then the lights went out.


***


 



The Jexclp’ar tended to drain light when
ever they appeared. Over the last few months (over there) he’d
become very adept at avoiding them and couldn’t believe he was
walking into their hands.


“Trust,” was the only word that came to his
mind.


He’d learned a lot about the people over
there. They had families, friends, fought for causes—there was even
racism over there. They had no such thing as music and were amazed
when Kelly whistled for the first time. Rather than trying to
explain what little he knew of music he’d made a rudimentary
instrument out of a jug and they’d rapidly begun making music with
jugs they had made themselves.


The most significant thing was death. Or the
lack of it. Either they had evolved beyond it or it had never been
anything they’d ever experienced. Until the incident that had
created the Earth. Well, some thought it was on purpose. A
government conspiracy. Anyone who even touched it was instantly
vaporized. Prior to that, one whose body had grown old would simply
transition to another state. Like a tree or an animal and after
that lifespan they might become human again. All life was recycled.
And there were those who transitioned into this big rainbow-wall
thing Kelly still couldn’t pronounce the name of.


Family would come and visit and sometimes
their loved one would respond. Some people guessed that was why the
dead from Earth came there. Earth humans were a kind of cousin life
form and that it was only natural for them to return ‘home’. But
most thought the dead were just a nuisance they couldn’t do
anything about. They didn’t join with the others and most wandered
around like lost animals pestering the living.


***


Kelly went down a long hallway and bumped
into a wall he hadn’t seen. He felt along the wall until he came to
an opening. There were people speaking but he couldn’t make out
what they were saying. He blinked a couple times and then could see
several people standing around.


“Kelly?” the man said. He looked familiar,
but Kelly didn’t know anyone who dressed like they’d just come from
the Gap.


“My child,” a big guy said. Kelly looked
twice then realized he was looking at a woman. She took a step in
his direction and bumped into someone.


The Jexclp’ar descended
from the ceiling. They were all black but somehow he could see them
clearly in the darkness. It was impossible to tell what he was
looking at. He’d seen them before but every time was like the first
time. Creatures in what looked like a gaping mouth directly
overhead crawled out and down the walls. This new darkness
surrounded everyone and the creatures, lessers, fell and jumped off the
walls, landing on the floor and circling them all.


Kelly saw someone sitting on the floor by
the tall woman. It was his body! He took a step and the lesser
nearest to him hissed and skittered over in front of him. The man
who had spoken stiffened, but didn’t move. Two albino-looking men
and a ghastly transvestite gathered around the tall woman. She
looked serene.


A giant, dog-looking thing on the floor
looked up. The lesser nearest it bent over and seemed to consider
it a moment. It grabbed the dog creature by the scruff but what it
picked up was something that must have been inside the creature. It
was another lesser.


It threw the other lesser out of the shroud
of dark. The lesser bounced off a wall, scrabbling to its hind legs
and back to the shroud but it couldn’t penetrate. It screeched in
agony, pounding and scratching at the air as its body dissolved,
eventually slumping to the floor.


More of them had surrounded everyone. At
least three to a person. A fourth one came over to Kelly. A small
one crawled over LaGina’s back and she squealed, jumping away from
it. An extremely long and skinny one reared back on its three hind
legs into a crouching position until it was eye level with the
blonde haired woman standing by LaGina. The giant woman still stood
with her arms folded, seeming to be undisturbed while several
lessers surrounded her and the two albinos behind her.


A short one grabbed the man standing by them
and pulled him to his knees. Kelly couldn’t see him for all the
people standing in front of him, but he heard the creatures make a
chittery sound. He saw other lessers scamper over to where the man
was. The people parted some and Kelly could see one of the lesser
poking his face around his eyes before letting out a small screech.
It reached inside him and pulled a glowing, bluish-white
translucent figure free. It was Israel.


The tall woman stepped through the line of
lessers and grabbed the one holding Israel. She removed its grip
and he went back inside the body. Kelly caught a glimpse of the
man’s face. It was Israel. But how could that be? His body had been
destroyed.


“You will not touch him,” she said. “I am
your Greater.” She threw her head back and the creature backed up a
few steps. It looked around at the others, seeming unsure.


More came out of the mouth overhead. These
were bigger and didn’t go on all fours like the first ones. They
had a more human shape, but with long, ovular, slanted tapered
heads. They had no mouths and deeply recessed red eyes. They
surrounded the woman, but didn’t touch her. She made no attempt to
move.


A lesser half Kelly’s height stiff-armed him
in the stomach. He took a step back and looked down at it. The blow
didn’t hurt. The others looked at him. They all left the other
people, save for the man-shaped ones and began approaching him. The
one that had touched him made a trilling sound, an antennae
extending from its head. It snapped at his hand and he pulled away
too late; his middle and ring fingers were gone. The lesser tossed
its head back and gobbled them down.


It jumped on his leg and sank its beak into
his thigh. There was no pain. Others joined it, latching onto his
body—biting, tearing, devouring him. The single word, “Trust,” kept
ringing through his head until his body was gone.


***


 



LaGina couldn’t stop
crying. That poor man had just dissolved right in front of her by
something in this room and the same thing was probably going to
happen to the rest of them. Whatever else was in here she couldn’t
see, but something had crawled on her back. She held onto the girl
in her arms, squeezing her for as much her own comfort as the
girl’s. She didn’t want to die. Her sons didn’t have a father; she
needed to get back to them.


She saw something from the corners of her
eyes that looked like shadows standing around in a cluster where
the man had been. Gradually these figures came into focus until she
could see them directly. Creatures of all different sizes and
shapes, but they looked similar. They seemed to be confused. A big
one by the tall woman stepped over to them. It prodded one, rolled
it over onto its back and began sticking its fingers inside its
torso.


One of the little ones’ back turned bright
red. The big one pulled its fingers out of the one on the floor and
paused. Then it shuddered in a way LaGina could only have described
as a sneeze, two stripes of red suddenly trailing down its back. It
turned and shuddered again, a huge crack appearing in its torso.
White goo the color and consistency of cottage cheese fell out of
its body. It clutched at its wound, looking to the other upright
creatures. They seemed unsure, taking a few steps back and looking
at each other.


LaGina looked up and saw a thing like a
mouth, quivering. Large chunks of black muck fell out of it. It had
smelled in here before, but now the air wreaked of a sick stench.
Something was going on as the creatures began screeching and making
noises. All their backs had turned red in different patterns. The
little ones had stopped moving save for the few that had fallen
over. The big ones began climbing the walls, going into the
mouth-thing above their heads. It looked like it was starting to
close as muck rained from it. One of the creatures shed its legs,
using its arms to drag itself to a wall. The creature that had
touched the smaller one was on all fours, a pile of cottage cheese
beneath it. Its body had turned dust white and it didn’t move. A
few of the creatures made it into the mouth before it disappeared.
The bodies of the ones left behind dissolved in seconds.


“Now that that’s done I can go home.”


They all turned to see who had spoken. There
were two men, but one glowed a fluctuating blue, orange and red and
floated a few feet off the ground, dusting his hands.


“What did you do?” the other man asked. Was
that Kelly? She couldn’t see him that well; he was translucent.


“I introduced them to death. It won’t take
long.”


“What won’t take long?”

“You,” the tall
woman said. She ran over and wrapped her big hands around the
floating one’s neck and began choking him. He didn’t seem to mind.
“You killed them! All of them!”


“I’m sure some will survive. Perhaps a half
percent?”


“Of everyone?” the one who
looked like Kelly said. It was weird to see him and the man sitting
on the floor with the same face. “You used me.”


“Yes. Your mother was foolish enough to
believe she could fool me by using one of those things to take your
place. She would have killed you if she could have.”


“I would have sacrificed one to save
trillions,” she said, breaking off the choke hold and falling to
her knees. “It would have been just.”


“No. It would not. You know what he is. How
valuable a tool he is. Even a trillions of lives would not be a
worthwhile exchange.”


“I didn’t give birth to him on purpose.”


“Perhaps you didn’t. But that is the nature
of a Greater. To destroy other Greaters. How better to do that than
to wipe out everything?”


“What?” Kelly said.
“She’s my
mother?”


“Yes. You are the bastard son of an almost
all powerful creature who gave birth to you as a more efficient
means of killing. She couldn’t help herself.”


“No,” she said weakly.


“So you loved him?” The
multi-colored one laughed. “Is that why you abandoned him? Why he
created an entirely new universe and escaped into it?
You were the one I
wanted to kill, but I’ll settle for your whole world.”


“It was your world too.”


“In case you haven’t noticed I’ve
changed.”


“I knew people there,” Kelly said. “How
could you?”


“Because
you knew a handful of
people, mass murder is so terrible a thing?” He laughed.
“Twenty-four hours ago you wouldn’t have cared about any of them.
Try a billion years and you’ll get that feeling back.”


He floated over to the young woman LaGina
was holding and looked at the creature that had attacked her.


“Yours, I presume.” He looked at the tall
woman, smirked and joined with it.


“Now I will go home.” It walked to the
opposite doorway from the one where LaGina had come in. “You
shouldn’t worry about Earthrealm. You should be more worried about
your precious Earth and what your friend Gayle Hills is doing to
it.”


“What do you mean? What is he doing?” Kelly
said.


“In time.” It walked out.


“All of you are beasts. All of you will be
destroyed.” The little man grabbed Wendy by the arm and dragged her
away in the same direction the other one had gone.


Kelly walked over to the tall woman.


“You abandoned me. I don’t know how I feel
about that. I never knew you. I have a mother and she loved me.
Next time I see you I’ll assume it’s for the worst.”


One of the albinos stepped up and touched
him with his index. A spark jumped between them and it stepped
away. The tall woman stood, her mouth open.


“What was that?” Kelly asked.


“Providence.
Come, my children. There is hope yet.” The two
albinos gathered around her and she looked at Israel. He looked
torn, looking between her and Kelly.


“There’s so much I need to know. I’m sorry,
Kelly, I have to—”


“Go. I think I would understand if I were in
your shoes.”


The four of them left, leaving LaGina alone
with the girl and Kelly.


“So you’re Kelly?”


“Yes.” He looked at her. His eyes looked
funny.


“Are you okay?”


“No.” A tear streamed down his face.


She set the girl’s head gently on the floor,
stood up and tried to hug him. She passed through him, squeezing
only air. He quivered—once, twice—then he began bawling.


“He killed everyone,” he sobbed.


She stood, awkward, rubbing her arms and
watching the floor until he was done. He wiped his eyes and she
looked at him. He didn’t have legs and she realized for the first
time from the thighs up he was completely naked.


“I don’t know what to do,” he said.


She looked over at his body, sitting on the
floor still.


“Maybe you should… y’know.” She tipped her
head.


“Oh man!” He dragged his palms down his
cheeks. “It’s been so long since I’ve even seen that.” He glided
over to his body. “I’m not sure how to do this. I don’t even know
if I want to.”


“It might be a little on the odd side if you
don’t, don’t you think?”


“Yeah.”


He embraced his body and the entire room was
bathed in golden light. When it faded, only Kelly was there, but
LaGina had to catch him before he collapsed.


“What happened?”


“You fainted,” she said, sitting him down.
She wasn’t certain if she would have believed the last ten minutes
if she hadn’t lived through it. So much had happened in so little
time. But staying here any longer was out of the equation.


The girl stirred. Good. LaGina helped Kelly
back on his feet and draped an arm over her shoulder. They walked
together and she held a hand out to the girl.


“Can you stand?”


“I think so.” She looked down at herself.
“I’m back! I’m back to normal!” LaGina pulled the girl to her feet
and the two of them leaned on LaGina to walk out. They weaved their
way around the maze-like factory and made it to a door leading
outside.



OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












 



 







 



That’s what your mother
said


 



 



It turned easily and they were blinded by
sunlight, though the sun was setting. LaGina wanted to cross to get
back to the hospital, but there wasn’t a break in traffic.


“I think I’m okay,” the girl said, standing
on her own. She seemed unsteady, but her eyes weren’t foggy.


“You should get checked out by a doctor,”
LaGina said.


“And tell him what?” LaGina didn’t have an
answer for that. “I’ll just see my own doctor later; right now I
need to find Marv.” She walked away, disappearing around the
building.


“You’re welcome,” LaGina said, wondering
what the girl would say when Marv asked what happened to her teeth.
“How about you? Do you need to go to the hospital?”


“I want to go home,” Kelly said.


A bus pulled up with a straw bend in the
middle. She had seen a few of them in the nineties but thought they
had been discontinued.


“You think you can make it up the steps?” He
nodded. They climbed up together and he grabbed onto a rail while
she reached for her purse.


Crap. She’d left it in the Made-Goode
factory. LaGina looked back. There was no way she was going back in
there. She’d cancel the credit cards and get a new phone.


“No fare today, honey,” the cherub-faced,
middle-aged driver said. Her curly black hair was barely contained
by her hat and framed her freckled face.


“Thank you,” LaGina said and the driver
nodded, closing the door. She put her arm around Kelly’s middle and
guided him to the back. The bus was mostly full and filled with
elderly people. They found two open seats behind an old woman with
a big church hat and wide eyes.


“Where are you two going?” she turned around
and asked.


“Taking him home.”


“Mm-hm.” She stared a moment without
speaking.


“So… where are you going?” LaGina finally
asked.


“Lampheter. I’m going home too.”


“That’s good.” LaGina didn’t have anything
else to say and thankfully the old woman sat back down in her
seat.


“Where do we need to get off?” she asked
Kelly.


“This bus will go north on Woodward for a
little while. We need to get off on Tennyson. We can borrow my
mother’s car and I’ll drive you home.”


“You look awful. Are you feeling okay?”


“No. I feel like something terrible happened
and I don’t know what.”


LaGina was unsure how much she should say.
The glowing man had said he’d done something that was supposed to
have killed those shadow creatures and trillions of others. That
didn’t make sense—there were only a few billion on Earth. Maybe
there were a trillion of those shadow things. So far as she saw
killing those couldn’t have been a bad thing, but she had a feeling
she’d only seen part of a bigger picture. But the look in his
eyes—he was haunted, that much she was certain of.


The past few hours had been a lot to take
in. Seeing Stout’s spirit at that party, the stroke that had come
from nowhere and a complete recovery thanks to a phone call from
Kelly and then seeing him detached from his own body—it was a lot
to take in.


Maybe he was an angel. No. Angels didn’t
need to be rescued. By her count she’d saved him twice now. LaGina
put it out of her mind. Whatever had happened she would probably
never understand, but she’d probably have nightmares. Best not to
think too much about it.


She looked at Kelly.
Really looked at him. Not a bad-looking man, but not traditionally
her type. He was taller than she recalled, but she liked that. Back
at the office he’d appeared to be her height. She’d dated black men
before, so that wasn’t the problem. He just seemed to be so
nice. Looking over her
dating history she’d never really been into nice guys.


Stout was the epitome of bad, dropping her
without so much as a goodbye after the twins had been born. She’d
found out on one of those entertainment programs when they did a
story on a special he was shooting in Europe somewhere and he was
photographed with some Czech model dripping off his arm.


She couldn’t believe she was thinking any of
this. A couple days ago she was ready to blackmail him if that’s
what it took to find Stout.


LaGina looked out the window as they passed
through an intersection. She couldn’t recall the bus stopping at
any red lights or any other bus stops. They had to have been doing
fifty easily.


“Our stop is coming up,” Kelly said and
stood. She scooted over and got up as he rang the bell. The bus
slowed, cutting off a car as it moved across two lanes to get to
the curb. They went down the two steps to the rear door.


“Goodbye.” The little old woman waved to
them as the bus came to a stop. LaGina waved.


“Wait a minute.” Kelly went back up the
stairs. He knelt in front of the seat next to the old woman and
reached down by her legs. She whooped and pressed her knees
together as if he were about to sneak a peek. He got up and they
walked out together.


“See you later, sweetie,” the driver said,
standing at the back door. She winked and it shut in front of her,
the bus merging back into traffic.


“Who’s driving?” LaGina said.


“Let’s just get out of here. I don’t want to
know.” Kelly pulled her away.


He put her himself between her and the
street as they began walking down the block. A thin layer of sun
was on the horizon behind them. She felt the chill on her bare
shoulders and needed to get her mind off the cold. She looked over
at what was in his hand.


“What do you have there?”


“It’s a tape.” He held it up. It was one of
those little tapes that went in some older models of
camcorders.


“What’s on it?”


“I don’t know, but I have the feeling it’ll
help us find Stout.”


“There have to be I don’t know how many
dozen busses in the city. What are the odds we got on the same bus
he got on? And how would you even know he ever made a tape?”


“Keylocks. Never mind, it’s something Israel
told me. I don’t know the odds of finding a clue on a bus, but I
imagine they’re pretty slim.”


“You know Stout did carry an old camcorder
and those were the kinds of tapes he used.”


“How do you know?” LaGina thought of some
other tapes she wouldn’t like found.


“How are you going to play it?”


“My mother. She has a camcorder in her
basement. I bought it for her for Christmas when I was seventeen.
She never could figure out how to use it, but she kept it. I’m
pretty sure this is the same kind.”


They passed several houses in various states
of disrepair. About a third on the first block were boarded up,
burned out or abandoned. This didn’t look like a safe place to
bring up a child, but there were several children running on the
sidewalk across the street.


LaGina started shivering. Winter was a
couple weeks away. Even though it had been warmer than average the
last few days, she was cold.


“Hold me?” she said to Kelly, rubbing her
arms. He looked down at her and wrapped a bare arm around her
shoulders. She was sure of it now, he was taller than before.


“So you grew up here?” They crossed to the
next block.


“Yup. I don’t know if it’s my sense of
nostalgia or what, but it doesn’t seem to have as much life as it
used to.”


“Well it says something when the state has
to take over your city.”


He cocked an eyebrow at her.


“What do you know about HP?”


“A little. I read the papers every now and
then.”


“Everything that happens in Detroit happens
here. Except the effect’s worse because we don’t have even a tenth
of the population. City council plundered twelve million and it
sent the city into a tailspin. And we had our corrupt mayor before
they had theirs. I was still in high school when Chrysler went to
Auburn Hills. Their headquarters was right down from my street
across Oakland.”


“I had an uncle who used to work there.”


They walked in silence for a while, crossing
to the third block. An occasional streetlight came on in the dusk,
bathing them in electric blue whenever they passed under a lit one.
He stared at a light green house on the corner as they walked past
it. The patio door was open as if someone had left in a hurry.


“We almost there?”


“Yeah, just a couple more houses.”


They turned onto the walk of an emerald
green and white house with an enclosed porch. He knocked on the
door but there was no answer.


“She’s probably in the back,” he said
pointing a thumb over his shoulder. “We have to go around back.”
They walked up the driveway past a broken down-looking light brown
Plymouth Sundance parked behind a bright red Dodge Ram with running
boards. He came to a chest high fence with a chain on it and began
to climb.


“I’m so not doing that in this dress.”
LaGina shook her head.


“It’s okay,” he said, holding out his hands
and wiggling his fingers. “C’mon.”


He had to be kidding. He’d been passed out
not more than an hour ago and if he thought he was about to lift
her he was—


LaGina’s heart raced as he scooped her up by
the armpits. She tried pinching his hands between her ribs and
arms, embarrassed he might be getting her sweat on him. Kelly
lifted her up like she was weightless, even tossing her up to catch
her by the hips to take her cleanly over. She clenched his
shoulders until he’d eased her to the ground, his grip gentle and
steady.


LaGina was a little self-conscious of her
area being in his face when she hadn’t had a bath in almost
twenty-four hours. She looked him up and down, wondering where this
muscle had come from. He might have been taller, but strength was
not something that body exuded.


“Can we go?” she asked, turning away and
hoping he hadn’t seen her flushed cheeks. They rounded the house
and came to a dull red deck, climbing the stairs and passing some
white deck furniture. Kelly stepped in front of her and walked to
the patio door barricaded with potted plants on the inside.


He cupped the sides of his head and looked
in, pausing for several seconds. Then he knocked and peaked in
again.


“Okay,” he said and turned to the security
door to the right.


She looked around. She didn’t know anything
about Kelly, but she wouldn’t have guessed he grew up here. She’d
grown up in a poor neighborhood, but nothing like this. He hadn’t
left, he escaped.


He put his arm around her again and pulled
her close. After a few moments in the chill air a flood light
overhead came on. The windowless white door behind the security
door swung in. A frail old woman with big eyes behind bifocals
parked on her nose and salt-and-pepper hair swept into a bun parked
on the back of her head looked out at them.


“Hey there, Kelly,” she said, sliding the
latch to the security door. “Come in, come in.”


“Hey Ma,” he said, ushering LaGina in ahead
of him. She took the step up and saw how little the old woman
really was. LaGina towered over her and she was only five-foot
three.


She looked LaGina up and down, making no
secret of it and taking both her hands in her own.


“You are gorgeous,” she said. “Kelly, where
are you manners. Introduce your girlfriend.”


“She’s not my girlfriend, Ma. This is
LaGina. LaGina… I’m sorry, I don’t think I’ve ever heard your last
name.”


“Densmore. LaGina Densmore.”


“LaGina, this is my mother.”


“Oh you know what I mean,” his mother said.
“Call me Ma Perdy by the way. It’s just nice to see my son with a
woman again after so long.”


“Ma…”


“Oh! Oh! I didn’t mean it like that.” She
grabbed LaGina’s hand again. “I didn’t mean it like that at all. My
son is very capable of—I didn’t mess things up, did I?”


“Can we just come in and sit down with
you?”


“Oh yeah.” Kelly’s mother stepped back and
ushered them through the small kitchen after he’d shut and locked
the door. The dinner table was cluttered with board games and large
plastic bowls and a large television. They passed the refrigerator
decorated with torn-out crayon-colored sheets, some with messages
like “Love you, Grandma!” and a stove with pots and pans covering
the eyes.


They went into a backroom that had a large
entertainment center in the corner. The large TV had a movie on. Ma
Perdy walked over to a dark green recliner next to a circular table
piled with various knick-knacks and prescriptions and sat down.


Kelly sat on the futon against the far wall
and LaGina sat next to him. The house had an old, earthy scent
spicing the air. She rubbed an index beneath her nose, hoping she
wouldn’t sneeze.


“So what’s new?” Ma Perdy said. “You didn’t
give me a chance to miss you this time, you were just here the
other day.”


“Yeah, it’s about this case. We had a little
trouble.”


“Is it your friend? He was a cutie—is he
okay?”


“Yeah, well he… I think it’s best I don’t
talk about it. Y’know, confidentiality issues and all.”


“Ooo. Sounds
sexy. So what’s your
story, Miss?”


“LaGina. I work at the Network with your
son.”


“Oh, you work together. Kelly, you should’ve
told me about her.”


“Well we just met the other day.” LaGina
could tell he was getting uncomfortable. She was a little
uncomfortable herself.


“Mrs. Greene could I use your phone? I need
to call home.”


“Call me Ma Perdy. Everyone does.” She
handed over a cordless phone. LaGina dialed as she walked into the
kitchen. She could hear them talking behind her. Kelly sounded like
he was semi-exasperated with his mother.


“Hello?” a voice said after a few rings.


“Hey Mommy.”


“Gina—thank
goodness! She’s okay,” her mother said away from the phone. “Where
are you?”


“Highland Park.”


“What in the world are you doing there? Are
you there with some man?”


“No, Ma. I’m here with a co-worker. I just
want to know if the boys are okay.”


“They’re fine. We’re all just so worried
about you.”


“I know, I know. Sorry, I’ll be there soon.
I actually had to go to the hospital.”


“Hospital? What happened?”


“I, uh, I hit my head. Doctor thought I had
a concussion. I’m okay, though.”


“Ugh, Gina, you’re such a klutz.”


“Thanks, Ma.”


“When will you be home?”


“As soon as I can get back. We’re at his
mother’s house now to borrow her car and then I should be
home.”


“A co-worker. Gina, I don’t understand. It’s
Saturday. You’ve had sex with him, haven’t you?”


“Ma! No!”


“I’m just saying. You do have a
history.”


“Okay, Ma. Give the boys a kiss for me. I’ll
be home as soon as I can.”


“Love you. Be careful.”


“You too, Mommy. I will.”


She hung up and came back into the living
room. Kelly was gone but she could hear water running.


“Kelly’s taking a shower. Sit down, let’s
talk.”


“Okay. About what?”


“About you and Kelly. You’d make a good
couple.”


“What?” LaGina didn’t mean to laugh.


“He’s a really good catch. He was married
for six years.”


“Married?” She hoped her tone came off as
sincere.


“His wife… passed. Car accident, bless her
soul. You look a lot like her except you’re shorter and a little
fuller in the hip. But face-wise, you could be sisters.”


“Okay.”


“See up there? That’s her picture.” Ma Perdy
pointed high up on the wall. Amongst several other pictures of
children was a family photo of Kelly with a woman with a short
haircut and two little girls. They did look alike except her face
was a little thinner than LaGina’s. If you gave his girls short
haircuts they’d look like younger, darker-skinned versions of her
sons.


“Beautiful family.”


“They were in the car too. It was a few
years ago and I know it’s been hard for him, but I wish he’d move
on. He deserves it. He’s such a good boy.”


LaGina looked at the much older woman and
saw tears in her eyes. This was more than just a mother trying to
hook up a date for her son.


“I’m dying and my son is going to be all
alone.”


“I’m so sorry.”


“He needs someone to take care of him. To
have someone at least to think about him. He doesn’t do anything
for himself anymore. He does things because he knows I would want
him to. I only want to see him happy again.”


“He never got over her.”


“No. It’s more like everything inside him
was scooped out and splattered all over that highway. Y’know he was
in the car when it happened? He was thrown clear and didn’t have a
scratch on him. It almost would have been better if he’d died.”


LaGina was uncomfortable with all this
sharing. She didn’t have anything of this caliber to share back. It
was like he was being stripped naked right in front of her.


“One time when Kelly was little, maybe
eleven or twelve, I came into his room. He was just sitting on his
bed, staring out the window. I must have called his name a half
dozen times before he turned his head. It was like his brain was on
Mars. He was so lost. He still didn’t answer, just stared at me
like he didn’t know me. I’ve raised him since he was three years
old and he looked at me like I was less than a stranger. It scared
me for some reason. But then he blinked his eyes and smiled at me
and there was my boy again.”


“That’s awful. I don’t know what I’d do if
one of my boys looked at me like that.”


“He doesn’t smile anymore.”


LaGina’s heart went out to her. But she
didn’t date guys because their mothers begged. The whole thing was
weird.


The shower turned off. Ma Perdy wiped her
face and smiled at her.


“Have you told him?”


“No.” Ma Perdy showed a flash of anger. “And
I’m sure you won’t either. I don’t want him to know.”


She wondered how Ma Perdy expected that to
work. As hurt as Kelly had been to have his wife and children die
unexpectedly, wouldn’t his mother passing unexpectedly be even more
pain? LaGina nodded, not knowing what more to say.


Kelly came in a moment later with an old
Pistons t-shirt indicating the 1989 and 1990 championships and a
pair of black shorts.


“Oh Kelly, it’s too chilly out to be wearing
shorts.”


“The jogging pants had a hole in the crotch
and none of the underwear in there fit.”


“So you’re pretty much running around free
in there,” LaGina said.


“Sorry. Over-share.” He shook a leg and
shifted his high-top sneakered feet. “Ma, I also needed to ask to
borrow your car. We kinda lost the Parke Car.”


“Sure. It’s in the driveway. Let me get the
keys.”


Ma Perdy shifted out of her chair and
shuffled back into the kitchen. She brought back the keys and
handed them to him.


“The truck doesn’t run, but the Sundance
does. You know your cousin. He’ll get to it someday.”


He looked at LaGina, holding up some kind of
odd-looking cassette.


“Look what I found.”


“Aren’t you going to thank your mother?”
LaGina was mildly furious.


“Oh. Uh, thanks Ma.” He bent and kissed her.
“Thank you.”


“You’re welcome, baby.”


“What is it?” LaGina said.


“Well, I couldn’t find the camera, but I
found something even better.” He thumbed something on the top and a
tiny window popped open then he inserted the camcorder cassette and
closed it back.


“You might need to change the battery,” Ma
Perdy said.


Kelly looked confused, turning the cassette
over in his hands. LaGina yanked it away and popped off the battery
cover. She took out the old AA battery and took a remote off the
entertainment center. She took a battery out of it and put it in
the cassette converter. It hummed, stretching out the ribbon in the
tiny cassette to be played in the VCR.


“Do you mind if we watch this, Ma Perdy?”
LaGina asked.


“Go right ahead.”


LaGina turned off the movie and popped in
the tape. She rewound it until it stopped and pressed play.


After a few pops and clicks and static lines
across the screen went from black to white. An out of focus hand
reached across the lens and made an adjustment and the view changed
to a blue sky.


 



He stood by the curb, waiting for the bus as
traffic passed. The camera was only getting a look of the street
and the calves of whoever passed.


Stout turned left and right. There were
three people to either side of him. A man in a trench coat and
black slacks, a guy with blond hair down to his shoulders in jeans
and a barefoot woman with black toe nails. Stout tipped the camera
slightly to get a view of her feet.


The bus roared into view
and stopped in front of them. It was really the bus. Stout filed in behind the
woman with no shoes. The bus driver was humming.


“How much is the fare?” Stout asked.


“Just have a seat, sweetie.” The driver
said. She was a sweet-looking, middle-aged black woman with
freckles and curly hair. He would’ve done her twenty years ago.


He passed by several seated people, making
his way to the back. If it were any other bus he might have thought
it was the light in here, but their skin looked off. But
considering they were all dead he kind of figured that was
normal.


Lampheter. He would go as far as he could
before they kicked him off. The living couldn’t go there and Stout
wasn’t willing to die to cross over. Someone brushed by going the
other way and the bag holding the camera spun wildly around.


He steadied it, sitting in one of the
side-facing seats across from a man in a black suit.


“You see that?” Stout
whispered, hoping the camera was picking up his voice. “You see
that? That guy’s dead.” The man in the suit didn’t move, but he had on a pair of
sunglasses. He’d always been into ghosts, not corpses, but how
could anyone not be excited by this? Ghosts were yesterday, now he
was on to zombies.


“There’s something going on here nobody
knows anything about. The dead are up to something.” Stout tried to
sound as official as he could, but he knew he sounded more like
Steve Irwin than Huel Perkins. That was okay, people would still
watch.


He didn’t know how long he could just play
it cool before he was noticed. A dark, feminine figure appeared to
his right and he realized it was speaking to him.


“Excuse me? What?” Stout said.


“You don’t belong,” it said in a deep
voice.


“I’m just going downtown. Isn’t this the
downtown bus?”


“No. This bus is headed to the
Fairgrounds.”


Yeah, right. Stout knew this bus wasn’t
going anywhere near Eight Mile, but he’d better not press his luck.
He’d found it once, he could always find it again later.


“I-I’m sorry. I can get off at the next
stop.”


“…late.”


“What did you say? Sorry, I didn’t hear
you.”


“TOO
LATE.”


Something on the left side of him flipped
his camera out of the seat, sending it to the floor.


 



“Wait a minute.” Kelly rewound the tape and
played it back in slow-mo. The figure was blurry because the camera
had turned so suddenly but it looked like the shadow of a woman.
Daylight came through the windows of the bus and through the two
misshapen holes where her eyes should have been.


“What the hell is that?” Kelly said. LaGina
hit play.


The camera hit the floor, the view upside
down and facing the rear door. Stout was saying something in the
background. He sounded nervous, afraid. Feet walked past the
camera, some of them bare. There was a brief struggle and then he
screamed.


The bus whined as it came to a stop and the
camera slid a couple inches over, giving it a full shot of the rear
door. It opened and a man stood there. His face was covered in
weird tattoos.


“Gunner,” LaGina said.


“You know that guy?”


“Sh—let’s hear this.”


He stepped onto the bus and stood right in
front of the camera.


“I’ve given you what you asked for. Now give
me what I want.”


There was a slick, sucking sound following
by a loud pop. Gunner turned around, screwing the lid back onto a
black container. He turned toward the bus once he’d stepped off,
his face in the camera again.


There was a sliding sound then Stout’s head
fell in front of the camera. The camera adjusted, bringing him in
focus. Who or whatever must have dropped him. Only one eye could be
seen, contracting in the red light of the camera. A hand pointed at
his head.


“I don’t care what you do with him,” Gunner
said, turning and walking away. The door closed and there were
several hisses. Someone picked up the camera and flung it, then it
cut out.


“Oh my God, how horrible.” LaGina covered
her mouth with her hands. She had to fight back the tears.


“So there’s part of the mystery solved,”
Kelly said. “That is, if you actually know who that last guy
was.”


“Yeah.” She wiped a tear from her eye. “His
name is Gunner. I met him the other day at the Network. He came in
to meet one of the executives. He just walked in like he was a
big-wig or something. He even invited me to a party at his
apartment.”


“And you went?” Kelly raised an eyebrow.
LaGina felt defensive and she was about to say something.


“So you know where he lives?” Ma Perdy
said.


“Well, yeah. He’s right in the city.”


“Then you’ll find Stout’s spirit in that
black container, like as not.”


“Ma, how do you know that?” Kelly turned
away to his mother.


“I know a thing or two. That container he
had should be onyx. Keeps the soul locked in. I wouldn’t be
surprised if it was some kind of carbonate. If it is, that soul is
either leaking out or gone.”


“Ma!”


Ma Perdy shrugged, but didn’t go into any
more detail how she knew what she knew.


“So what, we go to Gunner’s place and find
this container,” Kelly said. “Then what?”


“I’m sure we can figure that out after I get
a shower.”


***


Israel rode in the back with his ‘brothers’.
The golden albino was up front and the regular one sat next to him,
staring. ‘Mother’ drove. He had no idea where they were going, but
she turned whenever the one up front gave her direction.


He still couldn’t believe what he’d learned
at the factory, but he supposed it made sense. He knew Kelly was
the Deciding Difference, but to be related to such a grand being.
Maybe it was his programming that put him in awe of such a
thing.


The golden albino made some sort of barking
sound.


“Right here, baby?”


It nodded.


Mother pulled over next to a cornfield. They
hadn’t seen a house for a good mile or two. Everyone got out.


“Mother, what is this place?” Israel
asked.


“This, my child, is where we make our stand.
I foresaw the force that would try to destroy our world and I had
hoped to stop it. I was too late to stop him, but only in this
universe. This is a thin point.”


“What’s a thin point?”


“You probably have thought time is random
between the two worlds. It isn’t. Depending on where you are in
both worlds it is faster or slower. Sometimes it can even move
backwards. At this thin point we can cross over to before he sent
death to Earthrealm.”


“But the living from our world can’t cross
over. How can you get there? How did you even get here to begin
with?”


“A bridge. Your brother Kelly is one. He
will bring down the walls between the universes.”


“But isn’t that bad? Wouldn’t life in every
universe compacted into one destroy all life?”


She laughed. “No. If there were time I would
explain it to you. There will be harmony once the universe is
born.”


“Why isn’t he here? How can you get back
without him?”


The golden albino walked into the cornfield.
Mother and the other albino followed. She beckoned Israel to come
too. By the time Israel got to where they were the golden one had
pushed the cornstalks down in a circle big enough for about a dozen
people to stand in.


Mother had a big knife.


“Sacrifice.”


The albino got down on its knees in front of
the golden one. He looked up at him like a dog would its master.
Mother stood behind it, tilted its head to the side and jabbed the
knife into its neck. She yanked it out and a jet of bright pink
blood sprayed the golden one. All three raised their hands, the
golden one’s body elongating until he appeared as a beam of golden
light stretching up into the sky.


The albino fell over, dead. Mother put her
arms down and turned to Israel.


“We will ferry as many as we can.” She
walked over to Israel and looked down at him as she put her hands,
one bloody, on either side of his face. “Stay. Wait for us, my
child.” She stepped into the golden beam and vanished.


Israel wasn’t sure what he was supposed to
do. But he knew one thing for certain.


His mother was lying.



OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












 



 



 



 



 Overt ops


 



 



 



 



They took Woodward downtown. What little
traffic there was raced north and south, sometimes through red
lights. LaGina wasn’t exactly sure how to get there, so they felt
their way around until she saw a building that looked familiar.
Even then it was hit-or-miss until they found the right one.


They had to park a couple blocks away and
walk. Ma Perdy’s clothes were a little snug on her, but she wasn’t
about to wear a pair of Kelly’s old jogging pants. They were at
least thirty years old, but the pants were definitely in-fashion
again. LaGina would love to have more time to raid her closet
someday. At least the gym shoes fit. On the way they discussed how
to get in the building considering neither of them had a key.


“I say we just push buttons at random and
see if someone lets us in,” Kelly suggested.


“That’ll only get us in the lobby if it
works. How do we get in his apartment?”


“I don’t care. I’ll just kick the door
in.”


They got lucky. A man was just leaving as
they got there and he held the door open for them, staring at
LaGina the whole time. They crossed the lobby to the set of
elevators and Kelly pressed the up button.


“Do you really think we’ll find that
container up there?” she asked.


“I’m hoping. Otherwise it’s back to square
one.”


The elevator opened and they got on. LaGina
hit the button for Gunner’s floor. They rode up without anyone else
getting on and he followed her out. Gunner’s apartment was three
doors down from the elevators.


She stopped next to it and nodded to him.
Kelly tried the handle and jumped back when the knob turned and the
door popped open. The lights were out.


“What do we do?” LaGina asked.


“I don’t know. We gotta get in there.”


“What if somebody’s in there?” She felt dumb
even saying it. He peaked in and stepped back. “You stay right
here.”


“Being chivalrous?”


“Hell no. If I scream, you better come save
me.”


She nodded. He ducked and disappeared
inside. He bumped into something and was quiet for a few
minutes.


“Hey.” LaGina yelped as he tugged on her
dress. Kelly was on his hands and knees. “You gotta see this.”


“What?”


“No—no. You have to see this for
yourself.”


She got on her hands and knees and followed
him. It took her eyes a moment to adjust to the dark and she
realized the giant table that was in the center of the room had
been moved against a wall. There were three doors down a narrow
hall and one of them was open with a light on. Someone was moving
around in there and making a lot of noise.


LaGina grabbed Kelly’s ankle. He stopped and
turned around.


“It’s the Old Man,” Kelly said. “He’s in
there.”


“But why?”


“I’m not entirely sure, but the guy from the
video—”


“Gunner?”


“Yeah, him. The tattoos threw me, but when I
saw him in there I made the connection. Father and son.”


LaGina thought a moment. They had that same
high, square brow, the same deep blue eyes and chin. If only she
had realized before she might not have thought he was an exec. Who
was she kidding—if she had known he was the son of the president of
the Network she would have still been here last night.


They crawled up to the doorway and peered
in. The Old Man had on a pair of baggy jeans, gym shoes and a
bomber jacket. Maybe it was the clothes, but he seemed withered
somehow. In suits he’d always appeared robust, larger than life,
even though he was only a few inches taller than her. He’d made a
pile on the floor of papers, clothes and other items. There was a
dresser against the far wall with all its drawers pulled out and
amongst the few knickknacks on top of it was the black
container.


He reached behind the dresser and yanked
until it came crashing over. The container rolled and bounced off
the wall by LaGina and Kelly just out of arm’s reach. The Old Man
started into a coughing fit, bending over and putting a hand on his
thigh.


Kelly reached inside, catching the black
container with the tip of his finger. It skittered a couple inches
away and he froze as the Old Man took a deep breath and went back
into his coughing fit. Kelly stretched and snatched it, pulling out
of the doorway.


“Who’s there?” the Old Man said. Kelly’s
lips moved, but LaGina didn’t hear him. “Dammit, I saw you. Come
out. I have a gun.” Kelly signaled for her to stay put, but she
didn’t think that was a good idea. If he came out alone and the Old
Man saw her he might shoot out of panic. Plus he’d be less willing
to shoot two people than one if he were up to something. Especially
if one of them was a woman.


“It’s not time, is it? It’s not time?”


“I’m coming in,” Kelly said. He stood and
stepped into the doorway, his hands raised to his shoulders.


“I’m coming too,” LaGina said, following
him.


“Wha—” Kelly closed his mouth.


“Get in here,” she heard the Old Man say.
Kelly stepped in and LaGina followed, putting her hands up. He
waved the little gun for them to come closer and they both had to
step over the pile he’d made in the room.


“Y-you,” he said to them. “Mr. Greene, I
shouldn’t be surprised, but Ms. Densmore, why are you here?”


“Why do you think?” she said. “You have to
know by now I have a paternity case against Stout. We’re tied
together by mutual interest. We both want him found.”


“But why are you
here?”


“We know,” Kelly said. LaGina could see
Kelly nodding from the corner of her eye. He paused as if waiting
for it to sink in. The Old Man’s eyes went wide for a moment, but
then he narrowed them.


“What do you
think you
know?”


“Oh, you mean about your son kidnapping
Stout?” LaGina’s stomach fluttered. She didn’t know as much as him,
but it sure felt like he was winging it. If the Old man was
involved he probably didn’t know details. She hoped he wasn’t about
to get them shot. “I studied that file Artie gave us. Stout had
gotten three tips for haunted places he was visiting. One of them
was a bus. Guess who else got on?”


The Old Man made a face like he was biting
his cheeks. LaGina took her eyes off the gun long enough to see he
looked off, like he was ill or something. His eyes were bloodshot,
his skin was pale and he was hunched over. He raised the gun.


“We have a tape,” LaGina said. Kelly looked
at her and the Old Man paused. “That’s right. Stout carried a
camera everywhere, remember? Apparently, your son co-starred in his
latest feature.”


“And what are you going to do with that
tape? Take it to the police?”


“Of course not, they’d never believe us.
That’s why if anything happens to us it gets downloaded onto the
internet. Stout rules the sixteen to thirty-four demographic and
they’ll eat it up. Imagine what a coup it’ll be for the Network to
miss out on the commercial revenue of its signature show’s final
episode.”


“You wouldn’t.”


“As much as the Network’s lawyers have
stalled the paternity cases against Stout, I think it would only be
fair. And when the Board sees your son at the end of that tape
they’ll make their own connection. I bet there’s a clause in your
contract that comes with a hefty fine if you do anything
detrimental to the Network.”


“But they can’t prove I had anything to do
with—” The Old Man bit his lip. “You…” he pointed the gun at her.
LaGina gasped and took a step back. His face turned white as a
sheet and he lowered the gun. The Old Man brushed past them and
into the bathroom. A moment later she could hear him throwing up.
They both put their hands down.


“We have the container, let’s get out of
here.” LaGina tapped Kelly on the shoulder and turned to go, but
Kelly was looking at something on the floor.


“What are you doing?
Let’s go!”


“This was Martha’s.” Kelly picked something
up off the floor. She grabbed him, yanking him out of the room by
his arm. He reluctantly followed her out the front door.


The toilet flushed.


“Stop!” the Old Man shouted, his voice a
pool of jagged rocks. They made it out the door, heading for the
stairs. “Wait!” he screamed as they opened the door to the
stairwell. Kelly picked up his feet and followed. They were about
two flights down when she heard the door above, but there was no
gunfire.


By the time they made it out of the
stairwell LaGina was covered in sweat and panting. She swiped her
hand over her forehead and looked at Kelly. He was clenching
whatever he’d picked up.


“You still with me?”


He didn’t answer.


“Hey, are you with me?”


“Yeah.” Kelly blinked a couple times and
looked at her. “Yeah.”


“I don’t know what’s out there. He could be
waiting for us in the lobby or he could be on his way down. I want
to make a run for it. Can you do that?”


“Yeah. I can do that.”


“Look, I’m sorry for whatever you’re feeling
right now. I’m sure it was hard enough the first time around. But
we need to hustle as fast as we can and get to the car. Can you do
that for me?”


“Yes.” He nodded, focusing on her for the
first time. He took the keys out of his pocket.


LaGina peaked through the little window and
didn’t see the Old Man out there.


“Ready?”


Kelly nodded.


She threw the door open and paused a second.
She ran out and at first thought Kelly hadn’t moved, but then she
heard his footsteps fall out of synch with hers and saw him through
her peripheral vision catching up. They both went through the same
time through the revolving door and jumped out when it turned
outside. They ran the two blocks until they reached the car. Kelly
got there at least thirty feet ahead of her.


He had just gotten the driver’s side
unlocked when she reached him. LaGina nudged him aside, took the
keys and got in.


“Go around!” she said. “I’ll drive!” Kelly
ran around to the passenger side and got in as she was starting the
car. She pulled out into the street and turned right at the first
corner.


“So where do we go now?” LaGina asked.


Kelly held up the black container.


“I’m not sure,” he said.


 



The Old Man had tried to give chase. He’d
only been able to open the stairwell door when he collapsed into
another coughing fit. The chemo had taken all the fight out of him
and he barely had strength to keep himself upright. He didn’t want
them to think he was really going to shoot them. Or maybe he did,
but he wouldn’t have shot. But he couldn’t let them leak that tape.
It was just the kind of screw-up Gunner would have made.


Gunner.


That son of his. Of all the times he should
need something of his son. He wasn’t going to find him on his own.
And this needed a lot more discretion than an ordinary private
detective.


He pulled the card out of his pants pocket.
It was wrinkled and dog-eared. It had the letters ‘S.K.’ with an
800 number below it in raised crimson lettering.


It would be expensive. But he had to. They
would be able to find that tape.


Plus he wanted to know where the young man
had gotten the tooth on that necklace. He’d given it to someone
almost more than fifty years ago.



OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












 



 



 



 



 



 No
such thing


 



 



 



 



Finding Stout had been simple when they
really thought about it. Gunner hadn’t taken him off that bus, he’d
left him there. At some point they had to have dumped him. They’d
made a few calls to psych wards and hospitals around the city,
looking for a ‘lost brother’ who may have hit his head or be in a
coma.


By chance, LaGina found an unnamed person
who’d been found, roaming down Eight Mile and barking like a
dog.


“I think it might be him,” she told
Kelly.


“Where to?”


“Herman Kiefer.”


They’d called from a couple payphones
outside of a Starbuck’s in Ferndale. Kelly took Nine Mile to 75,
cut across the Davison and took the Lodge south. He got off on
Chicago and weaved around until they got to Taylor Street.


Herman Kiefer. She’d driven by this place so
many times without really seeing it. An H-shaped building studded
with windows all the way around. She’d had a cousin who came here
when she was little. Poor Jay had been picked on by her older
sisters until something in her snapped. Uncle Marty had said she’d
needed ‘rest’.


The lobby was big and old. It had a sickly
sweet mediciny smell. LaGina looked at Kelly to gauge if he were as
uncomfortable as she was. Nothing. God, his mother was right. He
was a blank slate at times.


“We called earlier,” he said to the
tired-looking, heavy-set white woman behind the desk. “You have a
patient here we need to claim.”


“Name?”


“Leslie Messler. You have him under John
Doe.”


Kelly pulled the paperwork out that had been
stuffed into his pockets. He smoothed it out on the desk and handed
it over. The woman whipped up the receiver and plunged her chubby
index onto a few buttons then pressed the receiver between her
shoulder and ear. She turned away from them and mumbled something
into the phone, never even glancing at the paperwork.


“Where’d you get those papers?” LaGina
asked.


“They were in my pants pockets. I don’t know
how they got there—Israel must have put them in after the
accident.”


“What accident?”


“We were being chased by these… things. We
didn’t exactly get away.”


“He’ll be right up,” the woman behind the
desk said.


“Thank you,” they both said at the same
time.


“You look nervous,” Kelly said to
LaGina.


“Just need to get back home. Miss my
kids.”


“I didn’t know you had kids.” His face
softened. Something more human crept into his eyes. “I could have
dropped you off.”


“No-no. I don’t mind. You shouldn’t be
alone.”


“What do you mean?”


“Do this alone, I meant. There should be two
people. At least.”


“Oh. Okay.”


Her brief conversation with Ma Perdy floated
back into her mind. He wasn’t lost-looking just now, but there was
a loneliness to him. Maybe they could be friends or something. That
would certainly be a different speed than what she’d normally had
with a man.


“So what? Did you go to a party or something
last night? What was with the dress?”


“Something like that. Kind of a blind date
thing that didn’t work out.” She didn’t want to say it was at
Gunner’s apartment. He was still hanging on to that locket and
touching this tooth-looking thing on a little chain around his
neck.


“Oh.”


“What about you? How’d you wind up in the
hospital?”


He looked confused a moment.


“Well, it had to have been the accident. I
hope I’m fine—who knows if I hit my head? I was gone so long, I
really don’t even remember.”


“Gone where?”


“Long story,” Kelly said. He looked closed
off again. “Why were you in the hospital?”


“Believe it or not, I
thought I’d had a stroke. I couldn’t talk and my right side was
completely numb. But then… some guy who sounded like
you called me. He told
me to put the phone up to your ear and then you got up. Except you
didn’t seem the same as you are now. Do you even know what happened
at the Made-Goode factory?”


“Yes and no.” Kelly made a face like he was
struggling to remember the details. It was this morning, how could
he have forgotten? “Pictures of some of it. Something bad happened
to someone, but I don’t know who. Man, it’s like I have this big
hole in my memory.”


“You said something about something bad
happening earlier. You were crying.”


“Me?” Kelly rubbed a hand over his head. She
could tell he didn’t remember.


As lost as he seemed LaGina felt right there
with him. Maybe it was best to forget about what happened at the
Made-Goode factory.


A man in a tuxedo stepped off the elevator.
An orderly pushing a man in a wheelchair followed. The man had on a
blue thin jacket with baseball logos all over it. Was that…


“Stout!” LaGina ran over to him. His face
was slack and his eyes slitted and dull. The orderly didn’t stop
until he was behind the doctor at the receptionist desk.


Stout looked different. He’d put on weight
in his face and his hair was more of a sandy brown instead of jet
black. She hated him for all he’d put her through, but she couldn’t
help but kiss his cheeks over and over.


He looked at her, but she could tell he
didn’t recognize her.


“He’s just been given a heavy sedative to
keep him calm, but he’s been violent since coming here, so be
careful,” he said to Kelly. “Oh, and he also likes to drink out of
the toilet.”


LaGina hoped the fresh minty smell on his
cheek was aftershave. She thanked the orderly and took the handles
of the wheelchair.


“Keep him in a quiet environment, preferably
indoors and away from traffic. An orderly broke his leg chasing him
across the Lodge.”


“Thanks,” Kelly said. “We’re going to take
him to his mother.”


The doctor nodded and they shook hands.
LaGina was a little offended he didn’t shake hers.


“So how do we get his spirit back in?” she
asked as they walked outside. “And who’s in there now?”


“I have no idea and I think a dog’s in
there.”


“A dog? How would a dog’s spirit have gotten
in there? I thought dogs don’t even have spirits.” Kelly opened the
rear passenger door and they half lifted Stout and put him
inside.


“You’d be surprised.”


An orderly came and took the chair as they
got in the car. LaGina turned around and looked at Stout.


“I keep having this feeling I’m forgetting
something,” Kelly said. “Or someone.”


Stout whimpered.


“Don’t change the subject. How would a dog
have gotten in there? If Gunner took his out then someone had to
have put that one in.”

“Not necessarily, but I do appreciate the irony.” LaGina made a
face. “I may not watch the show, but I’ve heard about the guy. I
know his reputation.” It wouldn’t have been a spectacular leap for
Kelly to make the assumption Stout was the father of her children
and she was glad he didn’t ask. “A roaming spirit can take
possession of a body under the right circumstances.”


LaGina waited for him to continue.


“Like?” she said when he didn’t.


“I don’t know,” Kelly
said. “It’s not exactly in a book. I just saw it happen.” LaGina
doubted that had happened to Stout. A lot of people hated him, both
living and dead. With as many women as he had screwed over and as
many of them who must have had husbands it was obvious somebody had
gotten him back. A dog had gotten a dog’s soul. LaGina’s only
question was why Gunner and the Old Man had done what they did.
Stout’s show was second only to Chí-Ché in its time slot and number
one for the Network. They should have been able to settle the
lawsuit easily. She’d heard a rumor that the Old Man’s daughter had
had a baby by Stout, but she couldn’t be certain.


Kelly’s face changed in the glow of
dashboard lights.


“Speaking of Gunner—how much do you know
about him?”


LaGina was hoping to avoid this. Kelly was
holding that locket in his hand again. She didn’t want to involve
herself with whatever he was thinking. She’d seen the end results
of men and their vengeance.


“I don’t know anything about him. He invited
me to a party and I came.” Maybe a little more of the truth would
help. “It was some kind of séance and he called up a spirit. I
thought it was Stout. Please don’t do anything. Think of your
mother.”


They stopped at a red light. He looked at
her.


“You thought it was or you know it was?”


“Well I must have been mistaken. I mean, you
have the container right there. Can’t get out of onyx, right?”
She’d remembered what Ma Perdy had said.


“Unless it’s not real onyx.” The light
turned. He kept looking at her.


“Yes. Yes, it was Stout. I know it in my
heart, it was.” He pulled off. “You’re not going to do anything,
right? I mean about Gunner. You’ll call the police?”


“I don’t know. I’ll think about it
later.”


“Where are we going?”


“Got to make a stop before we go to Stout’s
mother’s. I just realized there’s no such thing as
coincidence.”


“What does that mean?” LaGina asked.


“Hopefully a lot.”


***


 



“Here you go, buddy, he’s all yours,” the
deputy said. Israel looked up at the giant in the cell, his
semi-wild eyes darting around.


“You gonna be a good boy for me so I can let
you out?” the deputy said to him. Israel wasn’t entirely sure he
wanted to let him out. But it was what Mother wanted.


“He uhh, doesn’t talk much, officer,” Israel
offered.


“Oh, I can see that. He’s gonna behave,
right? I’d hate for Chris and Jerry to have to hit him with the
tazer again.


“He’ll be good.” Israel wished he knew that
for a fact.


The deputy unlocked the cell and slid the
bars back. At first the giant just let his hands fall to his sides.
But then he walked out without looking at the officer who had
opened the cage. He stood in front of Israel, his eyes blazing
behind bushy hair hanging down all around his face then grabbed him
in a bear hug.


“Hey-hey-hey-hey!” Chris and Jerry shouted,
running over to them. Israel held up a hand.


This was his brother. He hugged him
back.



OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












 



 



 



 



 Bum wisdom


 



“You what?” LaGina asked.


“I left it.”


“So you had it all this time?”


“No. And I don’t technically have it. It was
in a dead body, but I didn’t know it was him at the time. He told
me his real name; I just didn’t make a connection.”


“How did you screw that up? Everybody knows
what his real name is.”


“Not someone who wasn’t into the show. At
the time we didn’t know Stout had been separated from his body. We
didn’t have any reason to assume we wouldn’t find him ‘whole’ for
lack of a better term.”


“You don’t even know if he’s there.”


“No, but we can cross our fingers and
hope.”


They took the service drive to Jefferson and
headed east until they passed through Downeck. LaGina felt a chill
going constantly up and down her spine until they reached Grosse
Pointe.


“There’s that feeling again,” Kelly said,
shaking his head. “Like there’s something I’m supposed to be doing.
I wish I knew what.”


After another ten minutes or so they were
driving through St. Clair Shores. They crawled around a shopping
plaza as he looked around. She still didn’t understand how he could
do something so dumb.


“I think it’s somewhere around here.” It
wasn’t. They drove around until they found another plaza that
looked exactly the same.


“Okay, I don’t see him. I want to look
around some. Just keep him company.” Kelly gestured to Stout,
sleeping in the backseat.


He left the engine running and the heat on,
got out and raced off. It looked like it had begun raining outside
just when he disappeared around a corner. LaGina turned to look at
Stout.


“What happened to you?”


She’d been in love with him and thought he
felt the same. She should have known better; her taste in men was
always bad and Stout was the poster child for bad boys. He’d wined
and dined her, taken her to places she’d never been, shown her
things she’d never seen. His rude behavior was shocking and made
everyone uncomfortable but she’d loved it.


He was everything a Catholic girl from
Lapeer wasn’t. And then he dumped her.


She had every reason to hate him, but she
didn’t. Not anymore. She laid a hand on his arm and smiled. Maybe
this was the closure she needed.


She got on her knees in the seat, facing the
back and reached toward him. LaGina grabbed a little lock of hair
with a hard tug ripped it out by the roots.


Stout’s eyes yanked open and he looked at
her. Those eyes were completely guileless. He looked at her hand
and lifted it with his arm. LaGina let him guide her until her
fingers rested against his cheek. He nuzzled at her hand,
whimpering, until she began scratching behind his ear. She was
careful to keep the hair pinched between her index and thumb while
she used her other three fingers on his head. He closed his eyes
and leaned into the scratch. Then he fell over on his side and
shifted so he was belly up.


“You want me to scratch your tum-tum?” She
tucked the hair into a napkin and put it in her pocket.


His mouth hung open. He was panting. She
obliged and he shifted around on the backseat. He kept pushing her
hand lower and lower until it reached his belt line.


Oh no.


“You dog,” she snatched
her hand away. “Never again. You are bad.” She shook her finger at
him. “Very bad. Very, very, very
bad.” LaGina turned around and sat. Stout
whined.


***


‘Ed’ was nowhere around. Only a couple
homeless guys. Kelly didn’t know how helpful they would be but
maybe the ten spot in his pocket might help.


“Hey there was a guy here earlier,” he
began, waving the sawbuck left and right in his hand. “Tall, white,
looked kinda sick. Seen him?”


The homeless guy in the cardboard Samsung
television box with his legs hanging out and folded looked at the
money, then up at him. He took a swig from the bottle and handed it
over to the one sitting in a Zenith box.


“You know, they ‘on’t let me in there
n’more,” Samsung slurred, swiping his mouth. “They don’ like t’let
m’drink ‘n I don’t agree.” He tapped his soaked chest. “‘M a grown
men.”


“What my esteemed friend means to say is we
made acquaintance with a gentleman in dire straits fitting your
general description a mere few hours ago,” Zenith said. “He
appeared lost, confused, out of sorts with a wound on his side so I
gave him my jacket and sent him across the street to the soup
kitchen.”


“The soup kitchen? Why’d you send him there
if he was wounded?”


“Good sir, I am sitting in the freezing rain
and inadequately dressed. It should be more than apparent: I am
drunk.”


“Plussy got shot in th’ head sree days ago,”
Samsung added, holding up four fingers.


Zenith tilted his head forward and pointed
to a pencil-sized hole in his head.


“I can feel the rain water going in
there.”


Kelly looked then shook his head. One set of
weird circumstances at a time. He dropped the ten spot in the
Samsung’s open lap and the man snatched it up.


“You should take your buddy to the
hospital,” Kelly said to Samsung.


“You try tellin’
‘im. Hisassisstucktoth’floor!”


Kelly raced across the street. He saw LaGina
leaning over the seat doing something with Stout. She was cute, but
he thought she might be damaged goods. He supposed he was too,
maybe more so, but there was an obvious history between those two.
But he didn’t want to pry. From Stout’s file there were several
paternity suits against him and she’d mentioned kids. He’d put
money on them being his, but proving the point would be
useless.


But when he looked at her it made him
uncomfortable. She seemed so familiar to him, like they’d known
each other for a long time, but the feeling was just wrong. Like he
was stealing something. Or cheating someone.


Cheating.


Thoughts of her came to him and he barely
stopped in enough time to avoid the car racing by. He dared not
think her name. It was all he could do to look at their pictures
every now and then and when he did he was still reduced to tears.
Knowing that this Gunner may have played a part in her death was
getting to him. The middle of Gratiot was no place for a
breakdown.


Kelly stepped into the soup kitchen and
looked around. There were about two dozen people in here, sitting
in clusters. He walked over to the counter where a slender older
woman stood behind a big silver pot with a scoop and a hairnet on
her head.


“Some’n for the rain, honey,” she said,
hammering away at a piece of gum. She handed him a big foam
cup.


“Uh, thanks.” He took it. It actually
smelled pretty good. He took a sip and it was delicious. Beef
stock, celery, onions. Kelly’s stomach grumbled. He gulped it
down.


“How long’s it been since you had a
home-cooked meal?”


“Maybe two years?” It was the truth. Kelly
had reduced himself to frozen dinners and eating out over the last
few years.


“You clean?” She looked him up and down. He
guessed she meant drugs, but she had a look.


“Yeah. I’m actually looking for a friend of
mine.”


“I’m lookin’ for a friend too.” She flashed
a smile with a little too much teeth. This was headed in a bad
direction. He began a coughing fit.


“You okay, honey?”


“Yeah-yeah, the doctor
said it’s all in my head, but you know they work for
them. It was in that
stuff we breathed in Iraq. They said Saddam didn’t have nerve gas,
but they said that to protect their precious oil.”


“You look a little young for Desert Storm,”
she said. “Wasn’t that when soldiers said they got exposed to
something?”


“That’s the weird thing.
My buddy was the one in Desert Storm. I think he
gave it to
me.”


“What?” She scrunched her face.


“Look,” Kelly leaned in and he could see her
withdrawing even though she didn’t move, “what’s your name?”


“Leticia.”


“Leticia, I could always use a new friend,
don’t get me wrong, but my buddy is on borrowed time, y’know?”


“Yeah, that’s sad.” The glint was gone from
her eye. “What’s yer friend look like?”


“Tall. White.” Kelly put his arms around
himself and began scratching his sides. “Really bad complexion.
Looks like he’s dead.”


Leticia was scratching her forearm. She
noticed what she was doing and stopped.


“You must mean John.” She wrapped her arms
around herself. “He’s over there against the wall.”


“Thank you.” Kelly smiled and stooped over
like he was going into a dry heave. He stood and turned, scanning
the far wall. There were only three people there and this was a
small place. How had he missed him?


His back was to Kelly, sitting at a short
white cafeteria table. Kelly walked over and sat in front of him,
taking out the black container. Ed looked up, a Red Wings cap on
his head.


He smelled. Kelly breathed through his
mouth, glad it was still relatively cold in here.


“You ready to go home, Stout?”


“Hnnnh,” Ed/Stout said, nodding.


He wasn’t sure how this was supposed to
work. The container was slippery in his hands, falling through his
fingers a couple times before he got the lid off. Ed/Stout watched
the container with his remaining eye. Kelly sat the container down
between them.


They waited.


“Okay, aren’t you supposed to… get in or
something?”


Ed/Stout looked at him.


“I don’t know how this works. Do you know
how it happened the last time?” He shook his head. Kelly drummed
his fingers on the table, unsure of what to do and frustrated.


Ed/Stout was staring at his hand.


“What?” Kelly said, turning his hand over
and examining his fingers. He put his palm back on the table.
Ed/Stout tried mimicking his action, but the two middle fingers on
his hand didn’t move at all. He growled and swatted Kelly’s
hand.


Something electric passed between them.
Kelly rubbed his thumb over his fingertips and Ed/Stout stared at
his hand. Kelly thought he had an idea, but wasn’t sure of what he
was about to do.


He took Ed/Stout’s hand in his and stared at
him. The dead man was transfixed; he sat still as Kelly half stood,
leaning forward until their mouths were an inch apart. Kelly took a
deep breath and felt a pinch of electricity on his lip as Stout’s
spirit leapt into his body.


Ed’s head drooped. Kelly caught the body
before it could fall and gently laid the head on the table. He felt
full in a way that had nothing to do with the soup. He picked up
the black container and got up, seeing Leticia was gone and turned
for the door. When the police started asking questions they’d want
to know how a corpse had been rotting in here for days. Leticia
might have been able to describe him from head to toe but the
problem with Kelly being a suspect was he’d been here a long time
after Ed had died and people had seen him walking around before
that anyway.


Kelly dashed back out into the cold rain. He
crossed the street back to the Sundance and got in.


“You smell like soup. What took so long?”
LaGina asked.


“I’ll explain on the way. I got him.”


“Give it to me. I’ll hold it.” Kelly gave
her the black container.


“It’s not in there, though.” Kelly burped.
“It’s inside me.”


“How did you—never mind.”


Kelly put the car in drive and they were
off.



OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












 



Crazy old lady, pt
ii


 



 



 



 



 



Stout had growled at Kelly
the whole way there. LaGina kept shushing him, but each time that
only worked until she faced forward in her seat again. They’d had
to go back down to 696 and head west and it was sometime after
eleven o’clock when they got there. No decent senior citizen would
be up at this hour so it struck LaGina as strange when Mrs.
Roost—Messler—answered the door, bright-eyed and in her Sunday
best.


Like she’d been expecting to see them.


She looked like she’d put her make-up on in
the dark with a paintbrush. Streaks of lipstick cut from one jowly
cheek and across her thin mouth to the other. She had black rings
around her eyes from where she had over-applied eyeliner several
times over and her thick foundation was much darker than the pale
waddle of her neck.


Mrs. Messler’s thin hair was like a
white-blue halo around her head. LaGina could see the light from
within the house reflecting off her scalp. She looked emaciated,
her skin hanging off her like an ill-fitted suit.


Stout didn’t make any noise, but it was
obvious he didn’t want to go inside. LaGina had held his hand (he
seemed fascinated by this) to lead him to the concrete porch.


Kelly hadn’t done anything to assure her he
knew what he was doing. He’d gotten Stout’s spirit inside himself,
but didn’t know how to get it out. And he was insistent that they
needed to go to Stout’s mother’s right then, but didn’t have a
reason why.


“Good evening, Mrs. Messler,” he said.
“Remember me?”


“You,” she began after her
eyes had rolled over to Kelly, “are that cocksucker.”


“I’m sorry we must have gotten off on the
wrong foot, earlier. May we come in and sit down with you a
moment?”


“Dog-raper!” Stout put his nose behind
LaGina’s ear and whined.


“We’d like to come in.” Kelly put his hand
on the door handle and it creaked as it turned. A bird tweeted
inside somewhere. Mrs. Messler stepped back, a big grin on her
face. Her dentures clacked in her mouth, the four front teeth
missing. She shifted from side to side, like an athlete trying to
stay warmed up.


“Is she okay?” LaGina said to Kelly before
he went in.


“It’s going to be all right.” He had a weird
look in his eyes, like he had just learned something and was
keeping it secret. She pulled Stout in behind her and as they
walked over to the couch Mrs. Messler stepped closer to her
son.


LaGina’s hand suddenly stung from Stout’s
fingers snatching away from hers. Stout and his mother were rolling
around on the floor, biting and snapping at each other. She tossed
him, bouncing him off the wall and onto the couch. Mrs. Messler
hopped onto the balls of her feet and turned to LaGina. Kelly got
behind her and wrapped an arm around the old woman’s neck. She half
wriggled out of his grip and sank her remaining teeth into the
crook of his arm.


Kelly screamed and she spun around, punching
him in the side of the head and grabbed him by the throat, shaking
him like a rag doll. His eyes bugged as he slapped and scratched at
her iron grip, gulping fruitlessly for air.


LaGina grabbed a big book off the coffee
table, hefting it once before she bashed Mrs. Messler in the back
of the head. She let go and Kelly slumped to the floor like a sack
of meat. He didn’t move.


The bird was chirping non-stop. There was
something going on outside the house—it sounded like bird wings.
LaGina backed away from Mrs. Messler, the book held shoulder high
as the much older woman crept closer, her arms held up like a
praying mantis.


Stout pulled himself off the floor, growling
at his mother. She looked at her son and LaGina could see there was
no recognition in her eyes.


“Oh dear,” she said in her
shaky little old lady’s voice. “More cocksuckers.”


***


 



Kelly woke up. He was back here again.
Except it was all different. A light coat of dust was on
everything—even the air tasted chalky. The sky had lost much of its
translucency, turning a dark brown, the veins thin curlicued
shadows he almost couldn’t make out.


“I’m so sorry for
everything I done. I been a great big dick.” Kelly looked down at the
spirit floating next to him. It was Stout, trails and wisps
swirling around him. Kelly stood up, the memories of his time here
flooding back. He remembered the douchou, or, Grand Jerk, as it
translated into English. Even though it was thousands of years ago,
he was hated still. They’d erected a monument to him they threw
sweet-smelling trash at so they wouldn’t forget and even made a
holiday out of the day they threw him into the
Whitelands.


Now everything was dead. If there were any
survivors they wouldn’t last long. The ground crunched underfoot
when he took a step. That couldn’t be good for growing crops. There
was a giant groaning in the distance. Kelly turned and saw a
building in the distance slowly falling over.


The douchou had done it. He’d killed
everyone.


Perhaps some had escaped somehow. There was
supposedly a way for it to be done and other dimensions to where
they could have fled. Hopefully the Resistance had found a way out.
But over six trillion people had been murdered.


The fact Kelly had played a part in it no
matter how unwittingly made him feel like he’d been gut-punched. He
should have grieved for all the lost lives, but he felt like he
already had.


“I hurt everybody I ever touched.” Kelly had
forgotten about Stout. Other spirits roamed the streets. They
seemed fine apart from being dead, that was. The hereafter belonged
to them now. If everything he’d been told were true nothing could
kill him in this world or any other.


“I should be here. Yeah, I deserve it. In
fact, I deserve someplace worse.”


“Stout, would you like to start redeeming
yourself?”


“What? Oh man, you can see me?”


“Of course I can. I see all of you.” Spirits
had begun floating their way. Kelly pointed to a few floating
around this world’s version of a fire hydrant, a silver box-shaped
thing with a spout like a duck’s beak built into the top. “Would
you like to go back? Start making up for what you’ve done?”


“Yeah, man, yeah. Are you an angel or
something? If I could go back I’d be so much different. And not
just with all those chicks I banged. Dead people didn’t deserve
what I done. I swear man, I’d go back to every place, every house
and I would make it right or die trying.”


“Nobody needs you dead, Stout. There are a
lot of children who need a father. Make sure they get one. I’ll
take you back. You’re not going to be in your body at first so
you’ll have to remember to do one thing for me and it’s extremely
important you remember: kill the bird. No matter what you see or
what you think is happening, kill the bird and it’ll make it all
better.


“Can you do that for me, Stout? It’s the
most important thing you can do in the next few minutes.”


“Yeah, man.”


“No. This is really important. If you mess
this up you’re dead for good. So is one of the mothers of your
children. Got it?”


“Yeah, yeah. I got it. Thank you.”


The way back was obvious for Kelly. Over
here he had realized he was a bridge. He could go back anytime he
liked.


“Then take my hand.”


Stout reached out and grabbed it. He had
that gross feeling like an overly wet sponge. Kelly’s body buzzed
and threw off the red glow like before. Hundreds of spirits had
gathered when they crossed and the vacuum in his wake sucked all of
the ones into it that were close enough.


***


That guy had done it. Stout was back. The
first thing he could tell this time was he wasn’t in some dead guy
or locked in a container. But this felt like a bird.


Maybe it was some kind of pigeon, he
couldn’t tell but when he flapped a wing several more responded. He
wasn’t just one bird—he was a thousand.


Stout was in a tree. Several trees all
looking at one window. He knew this window. It was to his mother’s
kitchen. There was something going on inside. Made a couple of him
take wing and fly up to a higher branch. He didn’t have control of
the birds completely, like trying to hold onto a fistful of
marbles, some would drop out of his control. It would be difficult.
He felt thread thin, stretching into so many small creatures. And
they all had a mind of their own, however miniscule, even if they
did have a hive-like way of thinking. He knew if one took off they
all would and he’d be spread so thin as to not exist.


At first they wouldn’t move at his urging.
But he began exerting his will on the flock rather than the
individual birds themselves. He had to break that window and get in
there. The first one took off and from there it was like nudging
pebbles off a cliff. The effect snowballed until they were moving
en masse on the window. The glass began cracking after the first
few beaks hit, but many more were bouncing off the side of the
house because it was too focused of a point for so many. The glass
shattered and they were in, swarming everything.


A birdcage on the kitchen table was knocked
over, a little canary inside. Many of the birds continued and wound
up in the living room. A man was on the back of a little old woman
who had just punched another woman in the face. Some other guy was
on the ground, clutching his forearm.


Stout thought he should help. No, he needed
to do something else.


Kill the bird.


His mind shifted back to the kitchen. The
pigeons swarmed the bird, still in the cage and there were more
flying in from outside. Surprisingly, the more that flew into the
aluminum siding or the walls inside the house and died, the greater
his control was over the rest.


Stout refocused on the cage and they began
tearing at it. The canary flittered about in its cage and all those
beaks quickly made several entrances inside. It was over in
seconds.


***


The bird thing was weird. Weirder than Kelly
leaping off the floor like a madman after Mrs. Messler had snapped
Stout’s arm, weirder than a seventy-something year old woman with a
mean left cross.


The weirdest thing of all was how frightened
Mrs. Messler looked when the birds went silent. She looked around,
wringing her hands as unseen wings fluttered around the room.
LaGina looked, but didn’t see any bird. All the pigeons in here
were dead or walking around. There was a fair amount of bird poop
on the floor too.


Kelly picked himself up off the floor and
used the distraction as an opportunity to punch the old woman in
the stomach. She doubled over and LaGina grabbed his arm before he
could hit her again. She shook her head at him.


Mrs. Messler leapt back and howled before
pitching back, landing on her palms with her back arched up. She
walked like that on her hands and feet until she bumped up against
the wall. She turned over and crawled diagonally up the wall to the
ceiling, grunting with her eyes closed and her mouth working
silently up and down.


Then she fell.


They walked over to Mrs. Messler and stared
at her, lying face down with her arms and legs spread.


“Is she?” Kelly rasped.


“No.” LaGina slid an arm around his waist.
He looked at her but didn’t move away. She was surprised too.
“Look, you can see her back moving.”


Kelly put his arm over her shoulders and
gave a squeeze as if wanting to be sure she was really there.


I thought
you were, though. The
way you just fell there. You were so still, but then you got up so
fast.”


“Were you scared?”


“No.” LaGina couldn’t meet his eyes. She
tried to pull away but he squeezed again.


“Well I was scared when she choked me out. I
haven’t had a woman do that to me since third grade. My whole neck
hurts. I was scared when she punched you in the face, but you have
a pretty good beard.”


“Gee, thanks.” She looked at him. He was
smiling. “That’s a terrible joke. She could have killed us.” Maybe
it was everything that had happened today, but it was funny. LaGina
laughed and Kelly joined in. They laughed harder with each passing
second; LaGina could feel her sides aching as tears streamed from
her eyes.


“I don’t even know if it’s over,” Kelly
managed to say. “What’s up with all these birds?” They broke out in
fresh laughter, but quickly sobered up when Stout crawled over to
them.


“What do we do about him?” LaGina asked.


“I don’t know.” He made a face as he stared
at Stout, looking moon-eyed back at them.


“Somebody… somebody help me.” Mrs. Messler
got to her knees and LaGina helped her to the couch and looked her
over. The old woman was tough. Other than a bruised cheek she
seemed fine.


Kelly had gone completely still. Almost like
before except he was standing up. A pigeon had landed on his
shoulder and he seemed to be having a staring contest with it.


The bird fell off his shoulder and didn’t
move again. Kelly’s head slowly rotated to Stout, still kneeling on
the floor. Kelly formed his mouth into an ‘O’ and blew.


“Stout can’t come back on his own, Mrs.
Messler,” he began. “He needs to be rooted to someone who cares for
him.”


“Wha-what?” she said. She
looked around and spotted her son. “Oh, my baby. My
baby.” She jumped off
the couch and threw her arms around him. Mrs. Messler peppered his
cheeks with kisses.


“Guess that answers your question,” LaGina
said.


“Y’know, two might be better than one.”


“I think I drank my fill from that well.”
LaGina put her hands up. “I’m good.”


Kelly shrugged, put his hand on top of
Stout’s head and said, “It’s time to go, boy.” Stout looked up at
him. LaGina couldn’t see his face from her angle so she couldn’t
see what translated between them, but Stout’s posture changed. His
shoulders relaxed, his head cocked to the side in that way LaGina
had seen so many times before. She thought she heard a dog whimper
but the sound was brief.


“Ma?” Stout said.


***


Kelly stayed the night. Not that anything
was about to happen between them, but he was too wasted to drive
home. LaGina had winked out shortly after giving him directions to
her house. They’d left Stout and his mother when the ambulance
arrived to take him to the hospital.


“Come in. Seriously,” she’d said to him when
they pulled into her driveway. “You can crash on the couch.” She’d
put her hand on his and he could tell she meant it, the invite too.
He could see it in her eyes even though he could barely keep his
open.


“Thanks, but I don’t think I can make it out
of this car. Every part of me hurts. Could I come in for breakfast
and a shower, though?”


“All I have is PB and J in the house, but
you’re welcome to it.” She smiled. Despite himself he smiled
back.


LaGina climbed out the car and he felt like
some kind of traitor watching her go. He closed his eyes and put
his head back, kicking himself for what just went through his mind.
He let himself slide down into sleep and got that nagging feeling
again that there was something… someone he’d forgotten all
about.


He hoped it wasn’t too late. But for
what?


 



Sometime later, maybe a few minutes or a few
hours, Kelly felt someone slide a blanket over him. He mumbled
something as a hand stroked the side of his face.


“They’re waiting for you,” an old woman’s
voice said.


Kelly opened his eyes. Or thought he did. He
felt asleep still and could feel the warmth of the blanket. He was
back on the other side except it was different. It was like he was
standing inside of a picture. Nothing moved. Well, there wasn’t
anything that could have moved. Everything was gone.


Except for a hooded figure sitting about ten
feet in front of him. He blinked and then it was five feet.


“When you’re ready,” the old woman said.


“Ready for what?” Kelly asked.


“To go to them.”


“Who’s waiting?”


“Everyone. I stayed behind to tell you.”


“Martha and the girls?”


She said nothing.


“I need to know—are they okay?”


But the old woman said
nothing else. Going back to being a part of the stillness all
around. Kelly tried reaching for her. He wanted to shake her, make
her answer him. But he hit his hand on something, the pain
dissolving the dream into blackness.





OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












 



 



 



 



 I
forgot about that


 



 



 



Taze had made the ultimate score. A ton of H
was waiting for him courtesy of his trust fund account. This giant
storage container would keep him and his closest hundred homies sky
high for the rest of their lives if he wanted.


He wanted. After yesterday afternoon he
needed a break from reality. That thing with all the porn had
knocked out the skinny and the phatty. Taze giggled. He didn’t
care. Skinny for guys made total sense.


He unlocked the door after
looking around and went in. Sunrise was still a long time coming.
Taze wondered how he was going to get all this home. Maybe it was
better if he didn’t; if he got busted with this much he’d go to
prison forever.
And no H meant no more fun.


Taze flicked on his flashlight and saw
several dozen crates as he swept it back and forth. He guessed that
made sense. How else are you supposed to ship tons and tons of
drugs? He giggled at the thought of a gigantic baggie. It was hot
and stale in here. Had a farm stank too.


There was a crowbar on the floor. He picked
it up and walked down the makeshift aisle to the back. They were
stacked up almost to the ceiling. He got an ill feeling down his
spine, like a chester was watching him. He spun around. Nothing
there but an open door.


Maybe he would have to sell some. There had
to be tons up in this piece. Even he felt full at the thought of
doing all this stuff.


There was a sound. Taze spun back around and
saw one of the crates, standing halfway out in the aisle.


Had it been there before?


“Chill,” he told himself. He’d just crack
that one open and do a li’l bit. He jammed the crowbar in between
the planks of wood and wedged it partially open. They really had
this thing nailed tight. He wondered why all the crates were so
little as he peaked inside of this one when he saw something that
looked like two green eyes.


“Nah, those
emeralds.” What were
emeralds doing in there? He wrenched off the side of the crate and
saw the side of a cage. It was plastic or plexiglass with air holes
in the side, but there was a big-eared, green-eyed blue thing in
there.


And no drugs.


“Snaaaaap.” He hoped this was a fluke but
all the crates were the same size. If he’d paid for somebody’s
Tasmanian bunny that was bol'. He wasn’t about to go pushing these
in West Bloomie.


He’d gone to exactly where he was supposed
to and the number on the side of the container had been the one
dude had given him. The guy had just screwed up.


Taze knew what he would do. He’d sue. Put
Dad’s money to good use and make skillet get his H.


As he was thinking over the logistics and
all that the bunny thing sniffed at the little crack in its cage
where he must have whacked it with the crowbar. Maybe he shouldn’t
have ignored that ‘Open With Care’ sign. It leapt at the crack as
if fresh air was some kind of drug. Taze held a finger out over the
crack and it leapt again, the skin on its back and belly turning
bright red. It scratched at the crack with tiny fingers ending with
jet black hooked claws. It sliced through the tip of his finger and
he snatched it back.


“Ouch!” Taze felt it, but it really hadn’t
hurt. He looked at his finger and a thin line of red appeared all
the way back to the first knuckle. He tried to wiggle the end of
his finger but it wouldn’t move.


Cute or no, Taze was
outtie. He stood and the thing’s belly and back turned bright pink
as it pushed and clawed at the opening. He stubbed his foot on
another crate. He knew it hadn’t been in the aisle and narrowly avoided bussing his
head open on one poking out right in front of his face.


They all were moving. Like more of those
creatures were inside.


Taze ran for the door. He heard something
break as he put his hand on the heavy door to push his way out.
Something yanked him back and he pulled the door closed with him.
He smacked onto the floor and the flashlight, where ever it was,
lit up the little creature from the cage from behind a few feet
away. Its chest was a glowing white as its little hand blurred past
Taze’s face.


It gobbled something down and he was
suddenly coughing up blood the washing into his throat. Taze put
his hand to his face and his nose was gone. There was no pain. His
nose had brought him here and it was the first thing to go.


He turned onto his elbows and began to push
himself up. It leapt on his face, tearing and eating. Taze
screamed, dying shortly after finally understanding what irony
was.


***


LaGina knocked on the window. Kelly popped
up and looked around, confused. He stared at her as if he didn’t
recognize her, then he gave a weak smile. He got out of the car and
stretched.


“You smell like dog.” She squinched her
nose. “Shower. Now.”


“Good morning to you too.”


“Oooo. No talking. I have
an extra toothbrush you can use. Have. You can have it.”


She led him into the house and knew he was
watching. She always knew when men watched her. She’d even put on
her light yellow sun dress even though it couldn’t have been more
than forty.


“I heard from Stout this morning.” LaGina
handed him a kid’s toothbrush on top of a wash cloth and towel and
an old shirt and jogging pants. “I’ve never been apologized to more
in my life. He says he’s going to make it up to all of us. I guess
we’ll see.”


“You believe him?”


She shrugged. “I’ve hated and loved him at
the same time for so long… I’m just grateful I have my boys.”


Kelly smiled again. She liked that.
Something about it made her warm inside.


“He also has some great new idea for the
show. Said he’s going to the network with it this morning. He’s
going back to all the places where he did shows and is going to
make amends. He wants to call it ‘The Ghost Healer’ and he’ll give
all his profits to all the women he… y’know.”


LaGina looked away. She felt foolish for
being one of those women.


“Seeing your boys makes me miss my
girls.”


It was the first time she’d heard him
mention his family. It caught her by surprise.


“Toothpaste in there?” He held up the
toothbrush, washcloth and towel, gesturing to the bathroom. She
nodded. “Thanks.” He closed the door and LaGina stood there a
moment. After the shower went on she just couldn’t stand there any
longer.


She went in.


“Kelly I didn’t want you
to think that wasn’t something big for you. Talking about your
family to me, I mean, it’s just that your mother told me what you
went through after they died. She told me how you don’t smile
anymore. She misses that. You smiled yesterday. Today too. I
thought you were a lot more responsibility than I could handle.
You’re cute and all and the complete opposite of everything wrong I
ever looked for in a guy. But then you say that to me and I know
it’s not a responsibility; it’s an honor that she asked me. I think
I’d like for us to take care of each other. You’re lost and I would
love for you to be able to find yourself in me. I mean
with me. I don’t know
how to do the relationship thing the right way, it’s never been
something… I’ve been good at, but maybe… this could be… a fresh
start for both of us… kinda. Y’know?”


Kelly peaked out from behind the Mickey
Mouse shower curtain, his head covered in foam.


“I didn’t see you there. Did you say
something?”


“Oh. It’s nothing. It’s just before noon,
but if you want breakfast still I can make you something. My mother
stocks up when she’s stressed. I can get a head start if you want
something.”


“Oh. Could I have bacon and eggs? Sunny side
up?”


“All right. See you downstairs. Sunny side
up.”


“Yeah. Thanks.”


She smiled and nodded, then stepped out and
shut the door. He liked his eggs sunny side up.


 



After breakfast she walked him back to the
car.


“You should go see your mother.”


“Why?”


“I promised I wouldn’t say.” She shook her
head, putting her arms around his neck, wanting him to know she
wanted him to stay. He meshed his body against hers.


“Okay. I guess I’m going to see my mother.
But I’ll be back.”


“Can you… hurry? She wasn’t sure she should
have said that.


His eyes went wide. He nodded.


“You know, as strange as the last couple
days have been, it’s been nice being there with you.”


It was her turn to nod. She felt like it
would have been far worse had there been anyone else with her. She
put a finger to his lips.


“Don’t say anything else. No promises except
you’ll be back.”


“Deal.”


They touched foreheads. She couldn’t believe
what she was about to do. A distant part of her was saying this was
all too soon but it felt right. She could tell he felt the same,
that he wanted her as much as she wanted him.


She closed her eyes and waited for him to
kiss her and felt him pull away. She looked and saw he was staring
down the street at a police car.


“Something wrong?”


“I think I’m about to get arrested.” He
straightened and sure enough, two police officers got out of the
cruiser that stopped in front of her house.


“Kelly Greene, we need you to put your hands
on your head and get on your knees, facing away from us.” The
officer was as casual as ordering a number five from McDonald’s.
“Ma’am, I’m gonna need you to get back on your porch.”


“Kelly, what happened?” LaGina asked.


He shook his head, looking embarrassed.


“Somebody burned my house down and called
the police to confess. Apparently, they think it was me. I wouldn’t
burn down my house. Other than some pictures at work, it was all I
had left of my family.”


Guilt bubbled up through her shock. She’d
seen those.


“Ma’am, could you step back please?”


If it had been anyone else, if she hadn’t
experienced what she had over the last two days, she wouldn’t have
believed him. But she knew there was more to this than how it
appeared.


“I’ll come bail you out.” LaGina hugged him
and dug the keys out of his pocket before going back up on the
porch. “Where are you taking him?”


“Thirteen hundred Beaubien.” The officer put
handcuffs on Kelly, stood him up and walked him back to the
cruiser. He got in and watched her as they drove away.


***


 



Gayle Hills was standing in the middle of
the wood. He raised his hand and flame shot out, burning the
strangled tree a few yards away from him. Ms. Fleming stood next to
him, but their son had wrestling practice. He wished he knew how to
stop the advancing deadening. That was what he called it.


He slid his hand out of the skin glove and
handed it over to Ms. Fleming. She put it back on the plastic model
of his hand and in the case. Amazing how he couldn’t see on the
other side but he could use items that had crossed over. Many
‘people’ or whatever they were had tried and died but a few of
their body parts had survived. These remnants could do things. Like
the skin glove shooting fire. He had a pair of contacts he could
use to stare tumors into someone and another skin that made the
back of him invulnerable.


Gayle heard leaves
crunching in the distance. Ms. Fleming reached for her gun, but he
stopped her. She killed too easily. A moment later he saw
them. His followers. He didn’t know what they called themselves, but
they all had a weird, lost puppy dog look. And they were nude for
some reason. Gayle hadn’t heard from him in the last couple days.
He’d left, evaporated, whatever, and Gayle took that to
mean their partnership was over. To tell the truth he was glad to
be done with the whole mess. For an otherworldly being
he could be pretty high
maintenance.


What could they want?


They didn’t say anything.
Only stood and watched as he and Ms. Fleming watched them. He
thought he understood after a moment. With him gone, the mantle had been
passed. Gayle had inherited his
leavings by default.


“So who wants to get my coffee?” he
said.


 




OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












 



 



 



 EPILOGUE


Down boy, down


 



 



The black container rolled to a stop next to
the dead dog. The animal’s legs scissored back and forth and it
rolled onto its feet. Cars raced by in the dark. It didn’t know
where it was. It tried to cross to the grass a few yards away but
kept darting back when another car came. Finally it ran for it and
a truck clipped its hind legs, throwing it back onto the
shoulder.


It hurt but it wasn’t dead. The dog climbed
back to its feet, but its hind legs didn’t move like they should.
Before it could try to cross again a car pulled onto the shoulder
and ran it over again.


The dog got back up. This time in the middle
lane. Another car ran it over. Then another. Then another. Then
another.


It twitched where it lay. In all three
places. Everything hurt.


The dog whined as it heard another car
coming.


 



 



END








OceanofPDF.com

The Ghost Toucher












The Golden Ones

 



Kelly followed the man deeper into the
cemetery. Despite knowing what he was now, cemeteries still gave
him the creeps. He wished they’d come in the daytime.


“Couldn’t come here in the daytime,” the man
said. “Can’t hear it then.”


“Can’t hear what?”


“The voice.”


“What voice?” Kelly asked, but he’d fallen
behind and the man might not have heard him. He hustled to catch
up.


The man’s flashlight didn’t sweep left to
right, remaining steady, straight ahead until they arrived. The
beam played slowly over a modest headstone. Martha Jones, beloved
wife and mother, 1935 – 2009.


“For a long time I used to come every day…”
Kelly stood next to him. He looked over and could see the milky
stare in his eyes, even in the dark. “The more I came the more I
realized I could hear it. But it wasn’t out loud… it was… it was…
in my head.” He looked at Kelly and the eyes had turned hard again.
“Not in my head—in my head, but a voice somewhere that I could only
hear in my head. It wasn’t a man or a child… it didn’t really have
a sound to it. At first I thought I had too many toys in the attic
and just ignored it, figuring it was my grief and it would go away.
The voice didn’t speak words, but sounds. The more I came, the more
I realized what the sounds were.


“It was like the voice was… practicing.
Speech. Like it didn’t know how to talk, but it was trying to
figure it. Y’know, rolling vowels and syllables around, trying to
get them right.”


“You mean, like a baby?”


“Yeah. Exactly like that. I didn’t want to
say that to you because I didn’t know if you’d ever had any kids.
Me and Martha had four.” His stare swam back to the headstone. “But
it went on and on like that, night after night until, well
obviously, it started using words. By now I was praying the voice
was only in my head and maybe I could have convinced myself of
that. Oh, I was scared out of my wits to come here, but I was
scared to miss something if I didn’t. But when it said your name I
figured I couldn’t keep this to myself anymore.”


“My name?” Kelly felt his pulse speed
up.


“Yeah. I’d heard of you before but I didn’t
know who you were, really. I googled you and realized you were the
fella from the TV.”


“Why did it say my name?” Kelly looked
around.


“Don’t know. But the really odd thing? It
was coming from over there. There’s a plot—no marker or nothin’—who
knows who’s down there. Three nights ago I finally got the nerve up
to investigate myself and—” He paused and Kelly stared at him
before realizing the old man was shivering.


“You okay? Wanna get out of here?”


“Yes, but this is important. Well, maybe you
want to walk over with me?”


“Why? What’s going on over there?”


“I felt it move. I went over and stood on
the grass—on the plot, I s’pose—and could feel it churning beneath
my feet. Like something really big and old was turning over down
there.”


“How do you know it was old?”


“I felt it. Like the dead skin on the heels
of my feet.” The old man shrugged. “I don’t know it another way to
explain it.”


“Let’s go on over,” Kelly said. “Before I
lose my nerve.”


As if I’d ever had it, he
thought.


The old man nodded and led the way. They
crossed over several mounds of earth, Kelly feeling a wiggly jolt
up his spine each time he walked over someone’s grave. They stopped
at a jagged hole twenty feet away from Martha Jones’, beloved wife
and mother, grave.


“It’s just a hole.”


“I swear to you, son. It was filled last
time I checked.”


The earth was disturbed several feet north
of the hole, as if someone had used a machine to churn up the
ground. They both followed the trail of disturbed ground until they
saw the naked feet of a man facing away from them.


His long white hair swayed in a breeze that
didn’t touch Kelly. He was naked, tall and powerfully built, but
didn’t seem bothered by the cold. Kelly heard him chewing and
swallowing and wondered where he’d found something to eat.


“Are you Kelly Greene?” the man asked, his
voice as deep as the dark itself.




 





OceanofPDF.com