Panglor
Table of Contents
Introduction to the New Edition
Chapter 1
Chapter 2
Chapter 3
Chapter 4
Chapter 5
Chapter 6
Chapter 7
Chapter 8
Chapter 9
Chapter 10
Chapter 11
Chapter 12
Chapter 13
Chapter 14
Chapter 15
About the Author
OceanofPDF.com

PANGLOR
Jeffrey A. Carver
Copyright © 1980, 1996 by Jeffrey A. Carver
Published by E-Reads. All rights reserved.
SKU: ERBAEN0039
Books by Jeffrey A. Carver
The Star Rigger Universe
(in chronological order in the future history)
Panglor
Dragons in the Stars
Dragon Rigger
Star Rigger's Way
Eternity's End
Seas of Ernathe
The Chaos Chronicles
Neptune Crossing: Volume One
Strange Attractors: Volume Two
The Infinite Sea: Volume Three
Sunborn: Volume Four
Novels of the Starstream
From a Changeling Star
Down the Stream of Stars
Standalone Novels
The Infinity Link
The Rapture Effect
Roger Zelazny's Alien Speedway: Clypsis
Battlestar Galactica (miniseries novelization)
Dedication Page
For Kathy and for Chuck

OceanofPDF.com

Introduction to the New Edition
This book is a modest revision of a novel that was first published in
1980. In certain ways, Panglor is the foundational novel of my Star Rigger
Universe. It's not the first book that I wrote in that future history, but it's the
one that sets the stage for all the others (Dragons in the Stars, Dragon
Rigger, Star Rigger's Way, Eternity's End, and Seas of Ernathe—in
chronological order within the future history).
This is the story of how it all came to happen: how starfarers first
learned to navigate the streams of space among the stars—the Flux, that
strange realm where intuition and imagination, meshed with the objective
topographies of spacetime, create fantastic images through which pilots can
navigate their ships. The adventures of pilot Panglor Balef provide the first
glimpse of the Flux, without actually naming it.
Panglor had been out of print since shortly after its publication in
1980. It was first published by Dell Books, just prior to Dell's closing down
of its science fiction line. It appeared without promotion, with a dreadful
cover, and sank like a stone. I was delighted to see it return to print with a
Tor edition in 1996. To celebrate the occasion, I did some editing on the
prose that I might have done in 1979, if I'd had the skill then. James
Frenkel, the book's original editor and its Tor editor as well, assisted me
with the job.
It was a curious experience, looking back on work first done sixteen
years earlier. These days, it's not that uncommon for a writer to dust off an
early work, and to revise and expand and generally recraft a new novel out
of old cloth. I did not do that. I liked the story I'd told and had little further
to add to it; but it was clear that it could be made a better book with a little
help from a more experienced hand.
I suppose any author mutters quietly to him- or herself, looking back
on earlier work—especially work done in the formative years, when the
craft and narrative voice were just emerging. In my case, the muttering is
often but not always critical; sometimes it's astonishment at a line or
paragraph that seems to sparkle with unexpected originality. Once, when
perusing a book of mine after a long absence, I was particularly startled by

one scene—a scene I had no memory of having written. Suddenly,
paranoiacally suspicious that a fast one had been pulled on me, I dug into
my files, found the original manuscript, and checked to see if someone else
had snuck in those sentences. No one had but me; such is the ephemeral
nature of memory.
In rereading Panglor, I found an energy and exuberance that I didn't
want to lose. I also found some pretty clunky prose and painfully awkward
bits of characterization. And so, vorpal red pencil in hand (no word
processor for this one), I set out to snip back the thickets of purple prose
here, to straighten the garbled sentences there, to stamp out the
redundancies everywhere—and in general, to provide a better read without
needlessly altering the book that a promising younger writer had created.
That's what I tried to do, anyway, and I hope I succeeded.
I had a good time rereading the book while I was at it. I hope you
enjoy it, too.
For more information on my books, stories, and other matters science-
fictional, visit my website at http://www.starrigger.net/ or my blog at
http://starrigger.blogspot.com/.
Jeffrey A. Carver
Author's Note
Panglor is pronounced PANG-lor,
ou-ralot is pronounced OOH-ruh-lot,
and
Alo is pronounced AY-lo.

OceanofPDF.com

Chapter 1
Any moment, Panglor Balef knew, it could be over. His mouth felt
gritty, and his stomach hurt. If the goddess of fate smiled upon him, he
would soon see the star. But if her smile turned malicious . . .
There was nothing to do but wait. He glared at the instruments, which
told him nothing. The sequencer chuckled annoyingly. He sat forward and
cursed savagely: "Whore!" Then he sat back. "Ah—" he grumbled. His
voice was not as acid as he'd hoped. Two weeks in this ship, and his curses
were losing their bite. That worried him: loss of the cutting edge, failure of
cynicism. He was tired.
"You aren't worth the bile eating my gut," he told the ship, and it was
nearly true. This ship, The Fighting Cur, had once been a stout freighter, but
it had lived its years. Still, it was a spaceship and the only thing standing
between him and the vacuum of space. He had other worries caged in his
thoughts at the moment, such as whether he would survive foreshortening.
"Talk, sweethearts," he pleaded of the instruments.
Fear gnawed at him. "LePiep!" he barked. There was a scuffling noise
behind him, and the ou-ralot poked her head up beside the center instrument
display. Panglor glared at her. "Trying to toss me out, hang me on," he
gargled. The ou-ralot looked at him perplexedly. A prairie dog-sized animal,
she had soft, tufted fur and round eyes. Her wings were concealed in the fur
on her back, but her bushy tail twitched nervously. "Dope," Panglor said, in
a sudden swelling of affection.
The ou-ralot was smart and empathic, better company than a human;
but certain things were beyond her understanding. One of them was the
incredible nervous strain of foreshortening, of flight between the stars.
There was nothing a pilot could do while in foreshortening; the cards had
already been played, in the instant of the ship's insertion into
foreshortening, through the collapsing-field near the star of origin. The
joker was that not all ships that entered foreshortening came out at the other
end. Where the losers emerged, or if they emerged anywhere at all, was one
of the unanswered questions of star travel. The statistical chances of failure

were small but well established, and there was no known way to improve
them.
As he often did, Panglor considered where his ship might emerge if the
uncertainties went against him. His mind filled with images: Misty wastes,
veils of darkness closing around The Fighting Cur, sealing it forever from
the view of stars, planets, or any references at all of the known universe; an
infinity of darkness and emptiness, beyond space and time. Limbo. Or . . .
adrift among the stars, the ship speeding at a sublight snail's pace in the vast
interstellar reaches, prematurely emerged from foreshortening and doomed
to spend eternity coasting, missing its target by billions of miles, centuries
late, its pilot long since dead.
It was the emptiness behind the uncertainty that terrified Panglor. He
didn't want to end his days alone, in some nether realm of emptiness, in
limbo.
He glanced at LePiep. "Over here," he said, whacking the cushion
beside him. The ou-ralot sprang up and settled in the seat. "Good," he said.
The control bay was still. The bridge of The Fighting Cur was a shallow,
curved section bending back on both sides to the exit passages. The
compartment was gloomy, the sensor-fringe viewscreen in the front wall lit
dimly by the midnight-blue glow of foreshortening.
Panglor felt twinges in his chest, a hint of hysteria. He rubbed his
forehead and then his temples, fingering several days' grease and sweat.
The emergence light clicked on, amber.
Lying thief, you taunt me! he accused silently, his blood rising. But he
swung to look into the binocular scoopscope. The image he saw in the
scope was a gray background with two clusters of white pointillist dots,
swarming crazily. The clusters existed only on two specific planes, which
danced toward convergence. Murdering mothers! he thought. His eyes
ached. The dots swam. They fell into a three-dimensional contour, an
obliquely aligned cone.
A muted tone sounded from the console. Beside him LePiep panted
raspily in echo of his own excitement. He held his breath, banished his
demons . . .
He felt a tremor in his gut and his groin and his ears, and the ship
dropped out of foreshortening. The viewscreen darkened completely and

filled with stars. He blinked at the star pattern, then switched to a stern
view.
There it was, an aurora-red glow, hanging in space and retreating like a
debtor. It was the capture-field that had snared him from foreshortening. He
cackled, shaking a fist in triumph. "We beat it!" LePiep squirmed madly
beside him. "Peep!" he cried, ruffling her fur. "We're there. You can relax."
He touched the ou-ralot under the chin. After a moment she stopped
squirming and stared at him with wide, wet eyes.
He had made it through. He was free.
Free to see human beings again. Free to continue his job and his life.
Free. For all the good it would do him.
But, whatever else—the danger of disaster in foreshortening was
behind him.
The capture-field was still shrinking in the viewscreen. The Cur was
moving at a hell of a good clip, probably about .01c. Panglor scanned the
instruments and disengaged the safety to the drivers. That started the
sequencer, and the ship immediately began rotating into the proper
deceleration attitude. A golden-white G4 sun moved into a corner of the
viewscreen, a bright disk. It was an ordinary G4 sun, no different from any
other, except that it was the right G4, Dreznelles 3, the third-named sun in
the Dreznelles star group. Panglor noted the spectral ID coming in,
confirming the star's identity, and he smiled. He could afford to smile, to
feel a touch of gratitude before the baser emotions took over.
The drivers kicked on, jarring the ship until the internal grav field
compensated. What a creaky old can this ship was. Like him. In another day
or so the ship would rest. But not him; his troubles were just—
"God, it's already started," he muttered. His nerves were shot; he had
to make himself relax.
LePiep hopped down from the seat and disappeared, whistling, into a
pile of junk near the exit. "LePiep!" he yelled. She remained in her burrow.
Eighteen, maybe twenty hours to relax, to get ready to deal with people
again. The thing was, he knew he'd be watched—probably from the
moment he arrived. "LePiep!" he bawled. "Get out here!" He groped under
his seat for a brew packet; he snapped its activator until the liquid moke
was steaming hot, then he sipped it and brooded.

He recalled Garikoff's face, rough-hewn and dark, his eyes piercing as
he gave Panglor the orders to fly. Blackmailing bastard. For a cent Panglor
would have killed him and walked out, but at that point he didn't really have
much choice; they had him outnumbered, and they had guns. So he'd gone
along with the orders—not that he'd had a better offer in sight, anyway—
and Garikoff's goons weren't likely to leave him unobserved now, so he'd
have to carry the orders through. There was just one question: What kind of
work did the bastards have up their sleeves for him at D3, and what were
his chances of coming away from it alive?
He studied the star field in the viewscreen, not comforted much by its
beauty. "Peep?" he growled. The ou-ralot poked her head out of the junk
pile and stared at him with pulsating brown eyes.
"Hy-ooop?" she whistled. "Hy-ooop?"
* * *
The Dreznelles 3 Waystation, population approximately half a million,
circled its sun in a Trojan orbit following D3's second planet. Manmade, it
was the only human-inhabited world in the D3 system. The Fighting Cur
was about twelve hours out when it entered the Waystation's real sphere of
influence, the long-range linear-shift field. The ship began decelerating in a
new mode. The field interaction produced a glowing halo several hundred
kilometers out from the ship: radiant loss of kinetic energy that the field
couldn't absorb. The image in the viewscreen was now fringed with orange
light in the fore and aft displays, but totally washed out to the sides. Panglor
switched the sensor-fringe to radar/UV composite, and that restored some
clarity to the view.
Waystation Control beeped him shortly after he entered the linear-shift
field, asking for registry and flight codes. "Never give you a break, do
they?" he grumbled to LePiep, disguising his relief at hearing a human
voice. He returned the information in a telemetric pulse, and Control fed
him back some orbital numbers and then went away and left him alone with
his thoughts again.
Hours later, the waystation actually became visible, a cluster of sparks
shifting slowly against the stars. The cluster of sparks grew and multiplied;
he was closing fast, still decelerating. "LePiep, look at this." The ou-ralot
rooted some wafers out of a broken package and tossed her head
disdainfully. Panglor, disgruntled, watched the approach alone.

The first thing to resolve visually was the floating spaceyards, a
jumbled assortment of liners and freighters and large haulers and police
vessels and station shuttles, all moored in orbit a dozen kilometers from the
station proper. The Cur stopped its deceleration and drifted by the outer
yards. They passed the marshaling and loading area, where large cargo
haulers were swallowed by the entry ports of enormous warehouses. Behind
the warehouses, several of the spiderweb radiators of the linear-shift field
glittered impressively across the panorama of stars. Though they were a
mere fraction of the entire system—comprising hundreds of radiators, f-s
field generators, and the vast solar converters and relays much closer to the
sun—they were nevertheless awesome, winking and glittering against
space. The sight was appropriate for a station that was a trade center and
interstellar crossroads. The D3 Waystation served several of the busiest
trade routes of southern Sagittarian space, particularly the routes connecting
Veti, trans-Cygnus 34, and the outworlds of the Boreaum Matrix.
Waystation Control came on-com, telling him to relinquish control to
beacons blue-two and blue-three, and to prepare for rendezvous with the
tugs.
"Christ, anyway," Panglor grumbled, locking the Cur's sensor-fringe to
the beacons' lasers. He and his ship didn't need tugs. But what could he do?
Couldn't fight the guild and union regs. "Ought to just let a man do his job,"
he growled. LePiep, startled by the anger in his voice, jumped up onto the
console and gazed sympathetically at him, eyes wide, her small ears
standing upright. He stared back at her. "What?" he said, in exasperation.
The ou-ralot had caught him off stride. She blinked. She was trying to help,
trying to calm him. "Ah hell, Peep," he said guiltily. "Right; okay."
Four tugs approached The Fighting Cur like glittery eyes slipping
across the starfield. They latched without fuss, and forty minutes later, the
Cur was docked at a mooring station. Panglor secured the ship. Waiting for
the shuttle, he located his duffel in his cabin, stuffed it quickly, then sat
down with LePiep. "Friend," he said, stroking the ou-ralot's back, "what I
really could use is a strong drink and some time to figure this thing out." He
had tried to figure it all out during the flight, but he never could think
properly during foreshortening transit.
The shuttle arrived: time to be off. He zipped LePiep into her
quarantine bag, and with that in one hand and duffel in the other he boarded
the shuttle and took a seat at the very rear of the cabin. LePiep huddled

against him inside her bag as the shuttle broke from the Cur and
accelerated.
The waystation proper came into view when the shuttle passed the
mooring area and pitched over to change course. The view was spectacular.
The station was a fabulous, articulated jewel filling half the heavens.
Sunlight spilled over its surface in intricate patterns of darkness and
brilliance. Passing behind one angular wing of the station, the shuttle darted
into shadow, leaving the station's nearest section etched in blazing fringes
and outlines against the night. The shuttle decelerated, wheeled, and
scooted toward the upper edge of the wing. Minutes later, they docked, and
Panglor looked up at an open port.
LePiep cried softly in the confinement of her bag. She stared at him
through the clear plastic with fearful eyes. "Hey, Peep," he said, feeling
sudden pressure in his throat. He blinked mist out of his eyes, then lifted the
bag and the duffel and moved to the port.
Arrival inspection was a bloody nuisance—customs, decontamination,
medical. Eventually they were released and sent on their way down a
concourse, Panglor decontaminated and in clean clothes, and LePiep
decontaminated and fluffy, perched on his left shoulder, her tail hooked
under his arm. They followed a pair of floating electric blue lines that
converged in the distance like parallel rails arrowing to a horizon. It was a
psykinetic directional—personalized, supposedly, to his own intended
destination and visible only to him. Despite the number of concourses he
had to walk through, at least he didn't have to worry about getting lost.
Each new hall was a shock of stimuli: people swarming and gliding in
every direction—spacers, transient passengers, locals. He saw an enormous
variety of clothes, tight and bulging and bright and subdued, people
chattering in unfamiliar languages and reeking of pungent smells. None of
these people seemed quite real to him. He couldn't help thinking of them as
ghosts—just like the ghosts who had put him out of work, and the ghosts
who were blackmailing him now—as something less than human, not to be
trusted.
He reached up to stroke LePiep, comforted by her warm presence
against his neck. "Peep-o," he said—but couldn't finish whatever it was he
wanted to say. His stomach was all knotted up, and so were his thoughts. It
was those ghosts . . . He felt like an alien among humanity. Peep didn't care;
Peep was an alien. But he wasn't. He was human. And what about the rest

of these people? They were supposed to be human. So why were they all so
unreal?
The directional led him to one of the many privacy-shadows, clustered
at the edge of a guest lobby. He stepped inside. From within, the privacy-
shadow shimmered colorfully, cutting off external sight and sound. A silver-
haired woman smiled from behind a console. "I hope you had a pleasant
transit, sir. May I help you with your accommodations?" She seemed almost
seductive, with moist lips turned up slightly at the corners.
"Yah," he said. LePiep was buzzing in his ear, but he was captivated by
that smile. He ignored the ou-ralot.
She asked what accommodations he would like. Basking in the sound
of her voice, he barely followed the gist of her words. Luxury or standard?
LePiep hissed, prodding him with her paw; he patted and shushed her, and
nodded yes to the luxury.
"No!" he said an instant later, coming to his senses. LePiep had been
warning him; he had fallen prey to the woman's hypnotic smile. But his
credit wouldn't cover a luxury room.
Her smile collapsed to a frown as she asked for his credentials. He
muttered, "Pilot Panglor Balef, flying for Grakoff-Garikoff, Shippers." She
worked at her console, then gave him a room confirmation—economy
single. There was a message waiting for him in central communications.
"Right," he said. Her smile had lost its magic; she was now only a purveyor
of information. Was that how they sold high-priced rooms? "Listen—"
But the woman, the console, and the privacy-shadow vanished. He was
left standing, astonished, in the chaos of the lobby. God damn. A holacrum
—the bitch was nothing but a holacrum.
Worse than a ghost.
What the hell kind of place was this, anyway? They came at you with
illusions, went straight for the glands, tried to sell you something you
couldn't afford—and if you refused, you were just baggage?
LePiep chirruped, nuzzling him. He exhaled and started walking,
shifting the ou-ralot down into the crook of his arm. One day they would
push him too hard—and someone would pay.
A psykinetic directional blinked, pointing out of the lobby. He
followed it up several floors and down a corridor, then stopped where it
pointed, glittering, through a door. He touched the edge of the door with his

fingertip. It paled, and he stepped through. Economy single. It wasn't really
all that spartan: small, but fitted with selectable holo-décor; a chair that
seemed designed to discourage him from spending too much time here;
single sleep bay; mistshower. Not bad, actually, by most standards.
LePiep fluttered around, making her own inspection. Panglor watched
her for a moment, then frowned, remembering the message that was waiting
for him. His orders, no doubt. He went to the com-console and activated the
query line. "Message for Pilot Panglor Balef, The Fighting Cur. Please
display," he said. He touched his fingertips to the ID scanner. LePiep was
making vulgar, throaty noises as she squirreled about, making it impossible
for him to think. "Hey, bud," he grumped. "Knock it off, huh?"
The ou-ralot landed on the counter and stared at him sullenly—a
transparent play for sympathy, which he ignored. The message appeared:
"SENIOR PILOT PANGLOR BALEF, GRAKOFF-GARIKOFF
DRISCOLL CLASS FREIGHTER #B387. AUTHORIZED, LAYOVER D3
WAYSTATION, NOT TO EXCEED TEN DAYS. PURSUANT TO
ORIGINAL ORDERS, RECEIVE AND CARRY OUT INSTRUCTIONS
FROM CURRENT LESSEE OF SHIP, BARRACU TRANSPORT AND
DISTRIBUTION, INC KRAZEL. PROCEED TO SKY LORE LOUNGE
FOR MEETING AT 2130 AFTER ARRIVAL. AWAIT CONTACT.
APPROVED, GRAKOFF-GARIKOFF, LTD, SHIPPERS AND TRADERS
INC VETI."
Well, that didn't tell him much. But it told him something. If the Cur
was being leased to a company incorporated on Krazel, which was a lot like
not being incorporated at all, then the company was most likely a front for
Grakoff-Garikoff themselves. Why? To insulate them from the law?
He had expected something like that, but it dismayed him nonetheless.
"Peep," he said, "I don't know exactly what's happening, but I don't
think it's going to be good." His voice cracked, and he turned away from her
until his feelings had a chance to freeze solid. Then he looked again; the ou-
ralot watched him with consoling eyes.
"Okay, now," he said, blanking the com-screen. "I've got two hours
before I have to meet those rat-buggerers, and that's plenty long enough for
a strong drink." He turned and tickled LePiep under the snout. "Want to
come along or stay here?"

"Whooee!" she pleaded, eyelids dropping. She ruffled her wings under
the brown fur of her back and settled down into a comfortable position. Her
eyes blinked slowly.
"Okay." Panglor rummaged for a packet of wafers, which he opened
and left on the counter, along with a nippled bottle of foxx-cream. Then he
touched her behind the ears. "So long," he said. The door opaqued behind
him. He tested its security with an elbow, then peered both ways down the
silent corridor; he shivered, feeling watched.
An idea for a destination formed in his thoughts—a drinking and
eating hearth—and a pair of psykinetic directional lines appeared, gleaming
in mid-air.
* * *
The hearth looked dark but warm from the outer corridor. The entrance
boundary shimmered as he passed through, and the corridor sounds died,
replaced by a clinking of tableware and an undercurrent of string music. He
blinked until his eyes adjusted to the gloom. Each of the tables had a closely
hooded, colored lightcone; on the far wall, a rusty glow climbed from a
hidden source toward the ceiling. A scent of burning herbs and wood drifted
in the air.
Panglor crossed the room, feeling a tingle in his skin, a teasing
suggestion of arousal. He suddenly felt wary. No one appeared to notice
him, however. The next room was a brighter, earthier place, with stone
walls and partitions. The burning scent came from a fireplace behind a long
S-shaped bar. He took a stool.
The human bartender nodded. "Slaker," Panglor said. "Big one." He
settled down into the stool, fiddling with the armrests, and tried to forget his
self-consciousness.
The slaker was a lively drink, with a nice green glow. The first sip
produced a rush up his spine to the back of his head, followed by a kick to
the sternum. The liquor sparkled, as though winking slyly, as it spilled over
the edge of the glass to his lips. It was a fine drink for contemplation, with a
light taste of absinthe and trake-herb.
He was reminded of a bar in the orbital spaceyards of Eridani
Neverlight, one of the rare places he associated with pleasant times. It was a
strange association, considering what a bizarre and gloomy world
Neverlight itself was, a hot but tilted planet that was habitable only in the

half-year perpetual nighttime regions of the poles. His stay in the orbital
spaceyards, six years ago, had been unusual; he had enjoyed a vacation
from a well-paid job, and in the friendship of Lenia Stahl, a local spacer in
the Neverlight system. He wondered why that memory should strike him
now; and then he knew. There was a holo-mural above the bar that
reminded him of one at that other station. The mural showed a vivid tropical
archipelago set in a gemlike sea. As he watched, the image changed: to a
supergiant sun, a blood-red eye, with a charred planet in the forefield. The
mural's glow drenched the bar with scarlet light, and with it Panglor's
thoughts. The memory of Neverlight OrbSpace, Lenia Stahl . . . keep it . . .
let it linger . . .
He jerked his thoughts back to the present. For a year he had
corresponded with Lenia Stahl; but he had never returned to see her, and it
was unlikely he ever would. The memory was riddled with pain.
Panglor tipped the slaker to his mouth again. His hand trembled with
the glass. He tightened his grip on the stem and signaled the bartender,
thinking to ask for a bowl of barloam stew, something to settle his nerves.
The mural blinked. Now it showed a misted landscape, yellow-orange
clouds half obscuring a spaceport on the ground. A tiny ship was caught in
the act of descending to a landing pad outlined by blazing red markers; its
jets sputtered against the desolate world. This looked like the spaceport at
Skyll, in the Boreaum Matrix, the most desperately lonely place Panglor
had ever seen—a world that chilled the soul, and turned men into walking
shadows of humanity. Panglor had been there once; few men went twice.
"Sir?" said the bartender, peering at him.
Panglor started. He shook his head, closed his eyes, felt the pressure in
his skull begin to mount. He opened his eyes and gulped the last of the
slaker. The drops twinkled as they ran from the glass and exploded hot and
cold and electric in his mouth. He put the glass down, touched the receipt
plate on the bar, and turned away, stumbling. A man in red pantaloons
watched him curiously. Panglor steeled himself and looked for the way out.
There was that tickling at his nerves again, as he went through the hearth, a
scratching ghostly touch at his groin, vaguely arousing. Damn hormones, he
muttered.
No. Not the hormones. External stimulation; they were trying to sell
him a good time.

He left the hearth, and the twinges faded.
The time was 2120, and he was to meet his contacts soon, in the Sky
Lore Lounge, wherever that was. Sky Lore Lounge, he thought. He walked
along, thumbing and scratching his sides. His thoughts were everywhere,
totally incoherent; he walked faster, trying to rearrange them. Sky Lore
Lounge. Directionals blinked on, and he followed them without another
thought.
The lounge was a high-ceilinged place, with platforms and tables
supported by slender arms in a multilevel myriad. The walls were illusion-
depth black, swirled with nebulas and starclouds. Hovering near the center
of the lounge was a slowly evolving art holacrum, at the moment showing
the face of a woman in ecstasy. Panglor glanced about uncertainly, then
chose a table high in the room. A lift-field glowed faintly beneath it; he
stepped into the field and rose to the table.
This time he ordered barloam stew before anything else, and the
moment it was delivered, he gulped it furiously. Every few seconds, he
peered around with his mouth full, to see if anyone was approaching.
Even so, they surprised him. He looked up as two people slid into the
seats facing him. One was a man, slight and pale, with dark, slick hair
powdered with silver glitter. The other was a woman, fat and gray-haired,
with sharp eyes and small white teeth that gleamed disconcertingly. Panglor
choked; he swallowed with difficulty, with one hand on his throat. He sat
straight in his seat and looked around. A privacy-shadow surrounded the
table.
He shivered and focused on the two visitors. He cleared his throat and
released the pressure his fingers were applying to the tabletop. Then he
began spooning his stew again, keeping his eyes on the two.
The woman leaned forward, turning her face up at an angle. Panglor
hesitated in midbite, his heart beating violently. "Pilot Balef?" the woman
asked expressionlessly.
Panglor grunted. He lowered his spoon and pushed the bowl aside,
appetite gone.
"I am Secretary Nelisson, of the Barracu Transport and Distributing
Company," she said. "With me is Deputy Director Demimoss." The man
gazed at Panglor with a cloudy expression. Nelisson opened a small satchel
and withdrew a set of documents. "These, Pilot, are a copy of the

agreements of lease between Barracu and Grakoff-Garikoff, the owners of
your ship."
Panglor blinked.
"And your flight orders." She passed the documents across the table.
He glanced at the leasing agreement, then examined the flight orders.
They were simple, but puzzling. He was instructed to fly the ship unladen to
Quetzal in the Formi star system; there he would load cargo and receive
further orders.
Puzzling, indeed. He grinned, scratching his head, then frowned. Then
he grinned again, shifting his eyes from Demimoss to Nelisson and back.
"Well," he said, "no problem here." Certainly there was nothing illegal
indicated. But why would anyone send a freighter such a distance empty?
Flying a starship through foreshortening was expensive, even for a wreck
like The Fighting Cur.
He gazed suspiciously at the orders. Though the grin remained on his
face, he felt fear creeping up the back of his neck.
Nelisson tapped her fingers on the table and said, "Those are just for
the record. That's not actually what you're going to do, of course."
Demimoss stirred, his eyebrows twitching. "No, we have other plans,"
he said mildly, running his fingers back through his hair. "In fact we—or
rather, Grakoff-Garikoff—are going to give you that ship, for your very
own, to keep. As soon as you've left this star system." He gestured with his
thumb to Nelisson. She produced still another document, but did not pass it
across to Panglor. "That's the transfer of title," said Demimoss. "Ready to
become effective as soon as you make your foreshortening insertion."
Panglor stared at him, trying not to betray emotion. He had a bad
feeling in his gut.
"All you need to do before this document is executed is to perform a
certain orbital maneuver in your freighter," Demimoss continued. He
stroked his hair back again, his eyes flickering. Panglor was beginning to
find the gesture unpleasant, as unpleasant as the implication of his words.
"Pilot, are you familiar with a shipper-class freighter, Deerfield, owned by
Vikken Traders, Limited?"
Panglor shook his head, his nerves pinched with ice. That ship
specifically he did not know; but Vikken Traders, Ltd., he knew very well.
Very well, indeed. A major interstellar shipping firm—far greater than

Grakoff-Garikoff—they had been his last regular employers. His very last.
Vikken was the company that had terminated him, blacklisted him, and left
him destitute on Veti IV. If there was a single entity he hated more than
Grakoff-Garikoff, it was Vikken Traders, Ltd.
"Well, it doesn't matter if you know the ship," said Demimoss.
"Deerfield is at this station, and on Third-day at 0875 it will depart this
station, bearing a cargo of some considerable value, which needn't concern
you. The ship is scheduled to make foreshortening insertion to Gaston's
system." Demimoss peered at him, his eyebrows jittering up and down.
"Unfortunately, it will never complete the transit. In fact, no one will know
where it has gone, or what has become of it." He fell silent and pressed his
lips together. Then he continued, sadly, "And you know what? It will have
been a faulty insertion, caused by a near-collision just short of the
collapsing-field."
His eyes held Panglor's. "The Fighting Cur will be cleared for
departure forty minutes after Deerfield. The flight plan is already filed. It
directs The Fighting Cur toward the same collapsing-field that Deerfield
will use."
Panglor tried to swallow; his throat was full of sand.
"We leave the details to you as to how you program your course. The
Fighting Cur has been provided with oversized drivers, which are being
adjusted right now. Your only obligation to Barracu, and to Grakoff-
Garikoff, is to see to it that Deerfield is diverted at the last possible
moment. You are not to cause her to abort her insertion. You are to make
certain that her insertion is faulty. Near-collision, Pilot—that is the report
we will be looking for."
"That's suicide," Panglor said hoarsely.
"Not if you're good," answered Demimoss, staring with one eye. "If
you plan it correctly, you can divert Deerfield with a near-collision and
make your own insertion a good one, for your escape. We don't care where
you go—hmm? If you make it to another system, you can take care of
yourself, I think."
Panglor tried to answer, but the words kept stuttering deep in his
throat, never reaching his vocal cords. Finally his protest rumbled up.
"Well, then, it's murder. Sending a crew into limbo is no better than murder,
is it?" he snarled. Lord, nothing frightened him more than the thought of

bad insertion, of never coming out of foreshortening, or of coming out
somewhere in the lonely reaches between the stars. He feared it every time
he made a transit. Could he knowingly cast another crew to that fate?
Demimoss and Nelisson both smiled tolerantly. "Pilot Balef," said
Demimoss, once more stroking his hair back, "I understand that you are
held under certain—ah, obligations—to Mr. Grakoff and Mr. Garikoff. Isn't
that correct? Of course it is." He sighed slowly. "Now, it's none of Barracu's
concern why these obligations exist. But we can repeat to you the
assurances that Grakoff-Garikoff gave us when we leased the ship's services
—when we asked if you might show reluctance."
Panglor glared.
"May I repeat for you, Pilot? You will be watched on the station. You
will be watched in space. Your maneuvers will be watched. If you fail in
your assignment, The Fighting Cur—the ship you stole—will fail in its
escape. In fact, it will fail to make a proper foreshortening insertion at all."
Demimoss paused, withdrew a tissue from his inner shirt pocket, and blew
his nose delicately. His eyebrows jumped.
Nelisson tilted another document toward Panglor, without giving it to
him. "The theft and piracy report on your ship. This document can be
executed, or the transfer of ownership. The choice is yours."
For several moments, Panglor could not respond. He was still
assimilating the meaning of this grotesque conspiracy. What they were
talking about was not a new sort of crime; sometimes it was called piracy,
sometimes industrial sabotage. A slight perturbation of a ship's insertion
vector could do it. And it was done. It was a particularly savage form of
corporate warfare.
"You people really work for Grakoff-Garikoff, don't you?" he said
finally. He could not quite bring himself to answer their question.
"We told you who we work for, Pilot Balef," Nelisson said, shaking
her head reprovingly. "We work for the Barracu Transport and Distributing
Company."
Panglor nodded with difficulty. What difference did it make if they
were lying or if Barracu was simply a front for Grakoff-Garikoff? "Well,
then," he grunted, "why do you want me to do this? What do you have
against this Deerfield?"

"That, Pilot, is really not your concern," said Demimoss. "But we don't
mean to be unkind to you, either. We were given to understand that you
might welcome a chance to do the job, after you thought about it."
"It's a hideous idea."
"Think of who will suffer. Vikken. Does that displease you?"
Demimoss took a tiny narco pop-bulb from his shirt pocket, bit it, and
sucked on it, smiling. "Besides, do you have a choice?"
Panglor fumed. He shrugged twitchily. He had no doubt that Garikoff
could carry out his threats. He could be killed by a Garikoff goon right here
on the station if he refused the job.
He refocused his eyes suddenly. Nelisson and Demimoss were both
standing, and the veil of the privacy-shadow was gone. Anything he said
now was for the entire lounge to hear. Demimoss was the one who spoke,
though. "Trust us," he said, stroking his glittering hair back. Then he
nodded to Nelisson, and they stepped apart into separate, glowing drop-
fields and vanished.
Panglor stared across the empty table, frozen. He felt a great pressure
inside his skull, like a wedge of ice. So. No more wondering about the
atrocities Garikoff had in mind. No more guessing. No more faint hoping.
His feelings spread like a chill vapor throughout his body. For long
minutes, he sat paralyzed. But cracks, eventually, began to split the ice.
It was a Vikken ship he was about to attack, and there could be
pleasure in that. But could he ignore the other lives involved? Well, why
not? It was his life or theirs, and what did he owe any of them? They were
only men, and therefore essentially vicious like all men. Ghosts, phantoms
loose in his existence uninvited. Why protect them?
And as for Grakoff-Garikoff, well, there would be time enough for
them later. They could threaten him with their goons, and they could
threaten him with worse things, and for right now he might take it. Right
now he might do as they told him. But later he'd make them pay; somehow,
he would. Panglor Balef would have his revenge.
The cracks spread through his icy feelings, allowing pain and
desperation to leak through. The body of ice groaned, then suddenly
shivered apart in his skull, exposing the pulsating nerves within. A hot
rivulet ran down his spine, releasing feelings in quick little streams: anger,
fear, humiliation, relief. He began to shudder, putting knuckles against his

mouth. And then laughter erupted, choking laughter, and suddenly he was
breathing again.

OceanofPDF.com

Chapter 2
The Sky Lore Lounge was filling rapidly for the evening's
entertainment. He didn't want to stay here for that, for bejeezus sake—some
mutilated holodrama, caterwauling musicians, and who knew what else?—
but he didn't want to pick up and move until he had thought this all out.
He had about a day. Escape was impossible; no telling how many
goons Garikoff had watching him. Going to the authorities would be like
slitting his own throat; if Garikoff's goons even suspected, they'd make
mincemeat of him. Not that he'd be losing much if he died, but what about
LePiep? She was totally dependent on him. And she was the only creature
in the universe who accepted his loyalty and returned it in full. No, he had
to keep himself alive, if on no other account than that ou-ralot's.
He had better get back to her right now, and not leave her alone again.
"Sir?" asked a soft voice beside him.
Startled, he looked up. A stunningly attractive woman stepped from the
lift-field and stood beside his table. She wore a crimson gown with a high-
necked, open collar reaching up under honey-orange hair; her arms were
bare and smooth. "Would you care for a refreshment?" she asked with a
smile, shaking the hair out of her eyes.
He swallowed hard, breathing with difficulty. This was no holacrum;
this was flesh and blood. He could smell her and touch her. His blood
rushed and pooled disconcertingly, toward his loins.
She bent toward the table, tilting her head. Her gown shifted slightly,
and produced a clear contour of her breast. "Perhaps something else?" she
asked quietly, hair falling over her eyes.
Something else? Is that how you do everything in this station? Is that
what you're selling now—expensive women? He closed his eyes, trembling,
feeling his blood rush upward again, to his temples. Get out of here—now.
He lurched away from the table and shoved past the startled waitress.
Stumbling, he fell off the edge of the platform. He gasped, tumbling; but a
drop-field caught him and brought him gently down to the floor. Conscious
of laughter around him, he pushed himself up from the floor and sprang

toward the exit. The starry decor swam around him and he staggered dizzily
against the wall.
Outside, he ran. A few gasps of fresh air calmed him, finally, and he
stopped and crouched in the corridor, looking both ways, getting a leash on
his nerves. Calm down, he thought. Calm down. A cool sheath slipped over
his enraged feelings, and after a few moments he had control again. His
anger toward Garikoff was now a cold anger, manageable. The important
thing was getting back to his quarters before anything happened to LePiep.
The corridor was empty, except for a small cleaning robot ticking
down one side, along the wall. He had no idea where he was, only that the
Sky Lore Lounge was around the corner. All he wanted to know was, which
way to his quarters?
Directional lines flicked on, winking. "Right," he muttered. He
wondered how many of his other desires the psych-monitors could read. It
was not a reassuring thought.
When he entered his quarters, he found LePiep snoozing. He looked
around carefully for signs of Garikoff mischief, but the only change in the
room was a litter of crumbs around the half-eaten packet of wafers. The ou-
ralot raised her head sleepily, then groaned and rolled onto her back,
stretching. She radiated waves of pleasure. "Whooeeep?" she said, righting
herself and blinking at him. She suddenly sensed his disquiet.
"Yah," he said, completing his scrutiny of the room. Grakoff hadn't
tried anything, but they still might.
"Peep," he said, picking her up and stroking her, "we have to figure out
what to do." He set her down again and paced in front of her, explaining the
situation. LePiep responded with a shiver and a plaintive hum; even if she
couldn't understand the details, she could sense his fear. She flexed her
spine and wing joints and stepped toward him, her eyes dark with empathy.
She lowered her nose and pressed her forehead to his cheek.
"Hhrruuu?" she said.
The ou-ralot's courage washed through him like a warming tide,
comforting him to the belly. He held her that way for a minute, then lifted
her into his arms. "Let's go for a walk, all right?" Maybe if he kept moving,
he could make the feeling of courage last.
* * *

They wandered aimlessly, moving upward through the station's levels.
Panglor knew he should begin planning, setting up course projections for
The Fighting Cur, but his mind wasn't on that; he just wanted to keep
moving, exploring, finding things of interest or even things not of goddamn
interest, just anything to distract himself. Gradually they passed out of the
section where most of the guest quarters and lounges were located, and into
levels intended for both transient spacers and locals.
On Level Nine, he found a room where one could sit and dial images
from the station's omnitelescope. Each seat had its own viewscreen and
controls. Panglor sat and twiddled the controls for a while; he looked at
several planets on this side of the sun—two gas giants and a gaunt cinder—
and then he focused on the nearby sights of the waystation itself. He
inspected ships and warehouses and field radiators. The Fighting Cur
appeared in the viewscreen, a battered silver can with a smaller can on the
front and a massive driver-ring on the stern, and he was surprised at the
affection he felt. Once he'd hated the ship, but she'd brought him alive from
Veti IV; she'd done her job well. It wasn't her fault she was owned by
Grakoff-Garikoff.
Then he realized that he could probably focus just as easily on
Deerfield, his prospective victim. The thought instantly gave him the jitters,
and produced other thoughts: foreshortening . . . bad insertion . . . limbo . .
.. He jumped out of his seat, dumping LePiep to the floor.
"Hyolll!" she cried, scurrying in circles around his feet.
"Hey-y-y, there!" he exclaimed, jolted back to reality. He scooped her
up and stroked her nervously. "Didn't mean to do that, old girl," he
murmured. Conscious of people staring at him, any one of whom could be a
Garikoff spy, he took her out of the room and into the nearest lift-field. He
kept rising until he reached Level Seventeen. When he stepped out of the
lift-field, a pair of directionals met him, pulsing brightly, pointing to a drop-
field. Apparently he was not wanted on this level. He ignored the signal and
looked around. Things were different here. The corridor was narrower and
dingier and badly illuminated. Exposed conduit and pipe ran along the walls
and ceiling. Clearly this was a resident or maintenance section. No one was
in sight. "We're as good as the damn locals, right?" he muttered. "Right," he
answered and started down the corridor.
The gloom was eerie, and so was the quiet—except for his echoing
footsteps. He wondered what this section was really used for. Listening at a

door, he heard a faint sound of machinery. That figured. He went to the next
door and listened; the door paled at his touch. Surprised, he cautiously
peered inside. A single light panel illuminated a dusty storeroom, empty
except for several crates in one corner. He inspected them more closely,
rubbing dust from one of the crates. Under the dust he found markings of
the Elacian National Worlds, whose script he recognized but couldn't read.
"Mm," he said. "LePiep—"
He scowled. "Naw." But maybe . . . "Peep, what do you think about
hiding up here and just waiting for everyone to leave? Grakoff would get
tired of looking, sooner or later, and then we could hop a ship out." LePiep
looked at him oddly, twitching her ears. She sat on the crate and thought
with him.
"Naw, hell," he growled. It wouldn't work. They'd find him, probably
with that damn psych-monitor—in fact, they were probably coming after
him right now—and then they'd kill him. And even if he got away, how
would he survive without funds? If they didn't deep-space him for piracy,
they'd get him for jumping ship. Oh, he could duck them for a while, but
what kind of life was that?
"We've had it, pal," he said. "Let's go. Hup."
LePiep jumped into the crook of his arm. "Hoop!" she cried, muffling
her snout against his armpit.
A shadow passed by the door. Panglor froze. Whoever it was did not
stop, though, and he waited until he thought it was safe. He looked out
cautiously and found the corridor deserted.
Sighing, he continued in his original direction. He planned to take the
next drop-field, but didn't want to backtrack. Ahead, a blue-green shimmer
screened off the corridor. Assuming that it was just a simple air-screen
partition, he went right through. Immediately voices assaulted his ears.
There was a doorway up on the left, and from it he heard the sounds of
scuffling, a female giggle, and angry shouts. He hugged the wall and
listened. The corridor here was paneled and clean; another hall intersected
on the right. Get moving down that way before they see you, he thought.
But he couldn't move.
A male voice became intelligible. "Day before that she queered the J-
scan going up to the department and fed in some kind of—" He was

interrupted by the giggle and more scuffling noises. "Hilarious," the voice
growled. "Let's take this witch and—"
"Witch?" someone shrieked.
Panglor tensed, listening hard. What was happening here?
A woman said, "Look, let's not—"
"The hell with that! She's a witch, and we ought to just stuff her down
a drop-chute and be done with it."
"Try!" A girl burst out of the doorway and yelled back venomously,
"You try it and you'll never try anything again!" When she turned toward
Panglor, he saw that her face was twisted with rage. She looked to be about
fourteen, perhaps sixteen years old.
His first impulse was to back out of the hellion's way. (Was he going to
have to deal with an adolescent girl, for chrissake?) But he couldn't seem to
move—despite LePiep's squirming and sputtering in his arms. He hoped the
girl wouldn't notice him.
At that moment, her gaze fell upon him. Her rage suddenly wrinkled
into harsh gaiety, and he realized that she was laughing at him, now. The
instant she had seen him, she'd started laughing. What the hell? LePiep was
crying in his ear, but he still could not make himself move. The girl's mouth
twisted with contempt. Her eyes closed to slits as she studied him, her
nostrils arrogantly flared. He could just see her pupils, contracted to black
dots.
The face was that of an unusual sort of ghost. A ghost of young hatred.
A terribly dangerous ghost.
The ou-ralot, now, was hissing—a soft sound, a whisper. But in her
throat was the beginning of a deep, rising grumble.
Panglor trembled and felt his muscles begin to thaw.
LePiep erupted with a murderous yowl. "Yi-i-ip! Yi-i-ip! Yi-i-ip!"
Panglor swung into motion. His feet moved clumsily, carrying him
toward the side corridor. Then he began to run, and once he was running he
didn't think of stopping. Why should a goddamn adolescent scare him this
way? Never mind, keep running!
Ahead he spotted a pair of lift- and drop-fields, a gateway back to the
civilized levels. He slowed, stumbling, as he reached them; his lungs ached,
dragging for air.

Psykinetic directionals winked on, pulsing brightly toward the drop-
field. He glanced back, thinking he had heard steps. Cheezus. The girl was
coming down the corridor fast. "All right!" he snarled, and leaped—not into
the drop-field, but into the lift-field.
Now why did you do that? he wondered, rising in the shaft. The next
level was the highest one, and he jumped out of the field and glanced
around. He was in a deserted foyer, from which several corridors split off.
The area looked unused, the walls unfinished. Across the foyer, a ramp
curved up against a wall to a high, gloomy exit. Keep moving. He hurried
up the ramp and through the exit and into a passageway that continued to
ascend. He stopped and listened behind him. At first there was nothing, then
light footsteps. He continued up.
At the top he confronted a solid-metal pressure-door. A light beside the
signal plate indicated pressure balanced on both sides, so he touched the
plate. The door slid open. He stepped through, and it closed again.
He was surrounded by the stars.
The room was a blister on the station's skin, an observatory. With the
exception of a com-console on one side, the room was bare. It was a place
to look at the stars—and the view was magnificent. The galactic band
glittered with a milky profusion of light across one side of the sky; on the
other side was the sun, darkened by a polarizer to a dull yellow disk.
Numerous bright stars stood out here and there in the night; some were
probably planets of this system.
He set LePiep down on a ledge that ran along the circumference of the
blister, and he faced the stars, close to the clear bubble. Perhaps the stars
could alleviate his pain and his fear, calm him and give him strength. If not,
he'd face the future shivering. He walked along the ledge with the ou-ralot
at his elbow. Outside, much of the station was lost in shadow, though
certain edges and angles were lighted by mirror or direct sun. Overhead, a
shuttle twinkled as it passed from shadow into sunlight.
Behind him the door hissed open, startling him. He closed his eyes,
hope draining out of him. "Naw, Peep," he said, opening his eyes again but
no longer seeing the stars. Perhaps he could feign indifference; perhaps he
could pretend to be calm. He turned slowly.
In the doorway stood the girl, gagging with laughter. "Boy, oh boy!"
she cried.

He glared at her, his blood quickening furiously. "What do you want?"
he growled.
The girl caught her breath, then shrugged, and said with a grin,
"Nothing. What do you want?" She was about two thirds his height, and
skinny. Her hair was clipped short in front, but it hung in a funny curve that
made it long in back and on one side only. She wore a man's pocketed
pants, and a woman's shirt with a loose and rumpled turtle-neck. She stood
with her weight slouched over one hip, thumb hooked over the waistband
on the other, fingers drumming cockily against her pelvis. Her eyes were
bright and contemptuous.
Obviously the thing to do was to ignore her. Shrugging, he carried
LePiep over to the com-console. He activated the screen, scratched his neck
self-consciously, thinking hard for a moment, then said, "General
information. Display foreshortening departure schedule for the next five
days." The console viewer produced a full-tank schedule tree; he studied it
with a show of great care.
The girl came over to within a few steps of him and snorted. "You
came all the way up here just to do that?" she said. He raised his eyes and
found his gaze locked with hers. She stuck out her chin. "What's your name,
anyway? Don't you know you're not supposed to be up here? What are you,
a derelict?" She shifted her hips and studied him with a mix of puzzled
interest and animosity.
He bent back to the console. He didn't know how to answer her, and
the fact that she was both female and an obnoxious child made it that much
worse. "Go away," he said finally.
"Huh!" she answered, giving no indication that she planned to leave.
"My name's Alontelida Castley. You can call me Alo." She pointed at
LePiep. "What's your animal? That's a strange one."
Panglor squinted darkly, his thoughts frozen, his anger locked up in
splinters of ice. "If you don't—"
"What did you say your name was?"
His breath released enough to grunt, "Panglor."
"Panglor, hey?" She snorted in satisfaction. "What did you say your
animal was?" She glanced again at LePiep.
He wanted to squash her like a bug. And yet he couldn't respond,
couldn't unlock the fury. "She is an ou-ralot," he said. "And she is not an

animal."
"What's she, then, a plant?" said Alo. "Or an aphis gel? She sure looks
like an animal to me."
"She's worth more than most people I know. Now if you don't—"
"Ho!" Alo crowed. "Gaw-dam, but you're nervous. Ping-lor."
He growled, "Get away."
"Pinglor, Punglor. What was it?"
"Pang-lor."
"Yeah. Ponglor. Why are you here? Are you a spacer?" She stared at
him in mocking, wide-eyed appraisal.
Are you a spacer? he thought sardonically. And how much more of this
are you going to take? Why not kill her, throw her out? Glaring at her, his
chest tight, he hissed, "Yes. I am a spacer."
"But probably not a good one."
"If you don't get out of here—"
"Pfffff . . . you won't do anything." She smirked. "You're probably a
coward, anyway." Her arms dropped rigidly to her sides, betraying tension.
Her eyes narrowed. "What's the matter with you? You don't fight back." She
glanced at LePiep again. "What did you say your animal was?"
"Ou-ralot," he said stiffly. Is that the best you can do against a thirteen-
year-old? Or sixteen—whatever?
"I've never heard of one of those."
He shrugged and grunted. Touch her and sohelpmejesus I'll kill you.
"She's from Faber Eridani. She escaped from a pet merchant on Areax V,
and I saved her." LePiep had been starved and terrified when he'd found her
about a standard year ago; she'd been his only friend ever since.
Alo studied him noncommittally for a moment, then suddenly moved
closer to look at LePiep. The ou-ralot sprang away, whistling, and flapped
around to land on Panglor's opposite shoulder. She hissed at Alo, then
ducked her head behind Panglor's, grumbling.
"Hey!" protested Alo angrily. "Let me see her!"
Panglor freed her claws from his shoulder, then eased LePiep into a
more secure position. He gazed back at Alo through slitted eyes. No way
was he going to let her near LePiep. Something clicked in his memory, and
he said, "Why did those people back there call you a witch? What did they
mean by that?"

Alo's face darkened with fury. "So you're just like them, are you? Only
sneakier. I haven't done anything to you, so you just better not make any
trouble." Her voice became piercing. "I am a cit-i-zen of the station!" The
word station seemed laden with bitter sarcasm.
"So what? What did they mean by witch?"
She eyed him with one hostile eye and laughed. "Nothing. It means I'm
smarter than they are. I like to experiment, and I play a few jokes, that's all.
And those dull queers always get upset over nothing." She fell silent, but
was shaking with emotion.
LePiep muttered quietly in Panglor's ear, communicating suspicion. He
stroked her, thinking: The twitch is getting to you now, but she's only a
troublemaker. Peep thinks so, and now she admits it herself. Just a ghost
like all the rest—a troublemaking ghost.
"I think you're different, though," Alo said.
He felt a spasm. Jesus, was this kid a sorceress? Maybe she was
different from the rest, after all—worse. Why the hell did she have to be
interested in him?
Alo nodded and said, "You're kind of funny. You don't yell, you don't
fight. And here you are pretending to use the computer. You're really doing
something a lot weirder, aren't you?"
Words crowded to his throat, but nothing came out.
"Not saying you're any better," she added coldly. "Just different. I've
got to go now. It's too bad you're such a coward, I think, because we really
could have had a good fight."
She went to the door and, with her back turned, fiddled with something
on the wall. He couldn't see what she was doing, and he didn't care; he just
wanted her to leave, to end his humiliation. The door hissed open. Alo
turned and grinned at him, looking very small and girlish as she rocked on
the balls of her feet. Then she whirled and ran out, and the door slid shut.
For a moment, Panglor did not react. Instead of relief, he felt
something he couldn't properly focus on, grating at the back of his mind.
His heart lurched. Alarmed, he grabbed for LePiep on his shoulder. When
his hand met fur, she muttered at his touch, and he relaxed. So there was
nothing wrong, after all—nothing, that is, except his impotent rage.
If that was his best against an adolescent girl, how could he hope to
match Grakoff-Garikoff and Vikken Traders?

Frustration flooded his body, then relief drained the frustration, then
his fear began to poison the relief. Fear that the girl lay in wait for him
elsewhere. Fear that he was in danger from Grakoff-Garikoff, that he would
be killed if he failed the mission, that he would be executed if he did not.
Quickly he moved to the door. He hesitated, glancing back into the
awesome night of the stars; then he turned and listened at the door—not that
he could have heard the little bitch out there anyway. He touched the plate.
Nothing happened.
He touched it again, pressing his fingertips to the metal to ensure
contact. He felt the metal, cold against his fingertips; but nothing happened,
and he pressed harder still, and nothing happened, and the fury rising in his
gut grew hotter than ever. The witch had sabotaged the door.
She was not only obnoxious; she was clever. These mechanisms were
hard to jam unless you knew precisely what you were doing. He knew that,
because with mechanisms, he knew precisely what he was doing.
There were several ways she might have done it. A charge-projector on
the plate itself, if she'd been concealing one. Or if she'd gotten up under the
service baffle, here—he couldn't remember if she'd reached over this far—
ah, hell!—he thumbed open the baffle and stared at the power fibers. For a
moment he did not even see what he was looking at; a heavy pressure was
building in his chest, and his vision was blurred. He could open the door
with the manual lever, but that would be accepting the insult. Or he could . .
.
The pressure erupted. "Jeezus!" he bellowed, whirling around to face
the stars, the light and blood of the galaxy. LePiep whistled and flapped
away, circling in the air. He whirled again and slammed his palm into the
wall. Stinging pain flashed up his arm. Goddamn twelve-year-old lout!
Bitch!
And suddenly it was over. He muttered in despair and thought of
hitting the wall again. But it was too late—he had vented as much as he
could. LePiep landed on the ledge nearby and stared at him with deep, black
eyes. "Hhooo-hheeoooop!" she cried, and hopped into the air again. He
caught her in his arms and held her, trembling, without speaking. Finally he
stroked her, set her down, and went to work on the door.
Taking a unitool from his pocket, he puzzled over the fiber-matrix
circuitry, then poked the tool's pin-sized light source into the matrix at

several different places and watched the flickering of relays as he
modulated the beam. Everything was functioning except the plate, so he
simply shorted that circuit with the light. The door whisked open.
Picking up LePiep, he started down the passageway—and heard
footsteps ahead of him, running, fading in the distance. The little twitch had
been waiting, then. Well, to hell with her. He wouldn't give her the
satisfaction of betraying his anger. And anyway, he had to get back to the
ship and get to work.
Psykinetic directionals flicked alight, pointing the way down through
the foyer and into the drop-field.
* * *
When he reached his quarters he went immediately to the com-
console. Before he turned it on, though, he had another thought; he went to
the service counter and ordered a sting brandy. He waited nervously for it to
arrive, and when it did, he drank it down at once and ordered another. The
burning in his throat made him feel a little better. He asked the computer for
departure schedules and flight plans, and for the first time he began
seriously considering the practical implications of the job he was supposed
to do. The job he had to do.
Aside from general flight parameters, he had to figure in The Fighting
Cur's no-cargo mass, her overpowered drivers, and the forty-minute
departure lag between Deerfield and the Cur. The real problem, of course,
was not intercepting the other ship but timing the interception to avoid early
detection. And then there was the delicate matter of making his final orbit,
after the near-collision, lead into a proper escape insertion for the Cur.
The consequences of being caught did not bear thinking; but at least
one factor in his favor was that they would have to catch him on the run or
destroy him, but in a very short time frame. They could not short out the
collapsing-field to thwart him, because that could cause a power surge that
could vaporize half the field-generating system. Nevertheless, there were
patrol craft, and the Garikoff vessels, also, to consider.
But, he wondered—could he bluff the attempt and still escape? There
was so much at stake. Not that he minded the thought of a vengeance shot
against Vikken—but this idea was a horror. What mattered was whether he
could get himself out of it and through foreshortening to a neutral system.
There were numerous possible escape destinations: Mastrus via Faber

Eridani via Veti; or the Elacian National Worlds via Atruba via Dreznelles
17; or . . .
The brandy was fuzzing his brain. Finally his concentration gave out
altogether. He could not stop thinking about that little hoodlum's
humiliating him.
And that was trivial compared to the rage that burned in his soul for
Grakoff-Garikoff Shippers and Traders Inc., Veti—the bastards. They may
have put him back in space, but for what—sabotage and murder?
It was back on Veti IV that they'd grabbed him. Such a long time ago,
such a long time. But it wasn't really, was it? Though four light-years
distant in space, Veti IV was less than three weeks behind him.
Hardly enough time to forget.

OceanofPDF.com

Chapter 3
Veti IV was a dreary world right from the beginning. It had only a few
million people, most of whom lived in a handful of port and mining cities.
The climate was unfriendly, as were the people. Half of two of the cities
were built out of the abandoned ruins of the vanished Kili race; Veti IV was
just one more world the mysterious Kili had used for a while and then
discarded. Panglor figured that the Kili, whoever they were, probably had
good sense.
Of all the cities on Veti IV, Nolaran was the first settled, and by
reputation the gloomiest and seediest. Derelict emigrants and spacers
congregated there, and even menial jobs were at a premium. Nolaran was
where Pilot Panglor Balef found himself, nearly penniless, dismissed from
piloting by Vikken Traders.
Nighttime in Nolaran was forbidding. Thin clouds swept overhead so
fast that the stars were continually changing pricks of light, glimpsed for no
more than a moment at a time. On either side, tall mountains loomed
somberly over the high-altitude spaceport. The scene matched Panglor's
mood well enough. He paused in his work and looked out of the grevik pit,
past the freighter's underside drive cluster, and watched a ship across the
field lift toward the sky on a pillow of ionized air. The sight only fueled his
anger; he jerked his attention back to the job.
Fire him, would they? Give him a bad reference, would they? Write
him up for psychiatric incompetence, would they? Just because he'd had an
accident last time—because he'd had trouble with the transit? He hadn't lost
the ship, had he? No, they'd salvaged both cargo and ship.
With a gauntleted hand he jabbed a switch. The plasma beam glowed,
streaming up into the drive-field chamber of one of the freighter's engines.
He manipulated the controls, modifying the beam to scour and re-film the
field-surfaces inside the drive chamber. The mass of the freighter, looming
overhead, was oppressive. How could anyone stand this job? It was hot and
dangerous, he had to wear grevik coveralls with a stifling helmet and visor,
and the pay was terrible. The plasma haze cooled to pink and then red, and
streams of white sparklers began pulsing through it, etching the final

random-element patterns on the field-surfaces. Ten seconds later the beam
cut off. He blinked, fingering his visor. His eyes hurt, and purple and yellow
sparks danced before his face.
With a grunt, he retracted the plasma gun into its stand. He did not
move it yet to the next drive chamber; instead, he went to the edge of the
pit, away from where the other grevik was laboring on the number-three
chamber. He stared across the floodlighted spaceport and scowled. He
wanted to rip off his hood and stalk away over the field. He was hot and
stinking and tired, and the damn job was fit only for brutes and fools, not
qualified men. But it was the only job he could get. He glanced over at the
other grevik, his boss, shadowy against the glimmer of the plasma beam.
Panglor snorted. Brutes and fools—ghosts, not real to him. Now there—out
on the field, on the deck of a spaceship—that was where he belonged.
He was not aware that he had made a decision when he walked back to
the grevik console, intending to roll the plasma gun over to number four.
What he did instead was retract the entire unit, gun and console both, into
its coffin at the side of the pit. His boss cut off the other beam and looked at
him, face hidden by his visor. "What do you think you're doing?" he
shouted, his voice tinny through the visor speaker. "Get that thing back out!
You've got number four to do!"
"You do it," Panglor muttered.
"What'd you say?"
"You do it!" Panglor turned away, though he saw the man striding
across the pit. A brute and a fool.
"Say that again, mister," growled the grevik, face to face with him.
"This ship lifts in two hours. Now get busy."
"You do it!" Panglor yelled. His fists were knotted at his sides. "I'm
leaving." Halfway out of the pit, he looked back; the man was following
him slowly. Panglor flipped up his visor and glared, his nostrils twitching in
the lingering ozone. The man stopped, startled, then shrugged and went
back to work, shaking his head. Panglor left the pit and took the two-man
grevik sled back across the field—aware, as he drove, of the ships hunched
like giants over the spacefield. The sight pained him terribly, because
walking off the grevik job after only eight days was going to end his
chances of even working at the spaceport again, much less flying. This was
it. Take a last look. No point in ever coming back.

After shucking his pit suit in the locker, he mist-showered—and there
he had a bad moment, because he started to choke up from anger and pain,
but he controlled himself before any of the emotion was betrayed, and he
made no sound—and he dressed in his old spacer jumpsuit, and went to the
office, head buzzing and throbbing, and cashed his last wagecard. He left
the spaceport by the main gate, without once looking back, and he tried to
ignore the jagged sorrow in his heart as he walked toward the town.
A fine, foggy snow had begun to fill the air, and he ducked his neck
down into his jacket, trying to keep warm. The bright lights of the spaceport
diminished as he followed the mountain road down into the city. He walked
—to save money, and also to give himself time to think. His mind was not
functioning well; he didn't know what he was going to do except go back to
his room, and that wasn't much of a plan.
The road hooked downward from the plateau through a notch in the
mountains. Much of the road, as well as the city, especially the Kili sector,
was cut directly into the side of the smaller of two mountains. This created
a curious splitting of levels in the city, beginning at the outskirts—
foundations above road level, buildings delved back into the mountain face
and jutting up out of it, and other structures carved downward into the
cliffs, beneath the road. Once in the city, he passed alternately along
curving precipices and through small canyons cut between towering slabs
of stone. In the nighttime gloom and flying haze, he might have been
passing by ruins sunk in the depths of a turbid, wintry sea. Nolaran seemed
a city mastered by dark thoughts—a disturbing combination of human and
alien architectures. Slabs loomed out of the mists of the canyonlike streets,
and then disappeared back into the gloom as he moved on.
He was suddenly gripped by a feeling that he had taken leave of
reality. The world greeting his eyes could not be the world supporting his
feet; it was too strange and cold. There were no real humans there—so why
him, why should his life run through this world? There were ghosts, of
course—always ghosts—but no real humans anywhere for him to reach, or
to touch.
Panglor turned to the right, blinking. The lights in the ravine were the
lower city and the railyards, the marshaling area for the transcon tunnels.
Slanting up the opposite side of the ravine were the spaceport spurs; freight
elements moved up and down them cautiously, to and from the yards. That
was life of a sort, human activity, he supposed. But it hardly related to his

life. He continued along the border of the main business district, and on into
the Naiopean quarter, where most of the bars were located, where he had
done most of his wiring and drinking these last weeks.
Five doors past Carmello's Den, he turned into a roofless passageway,
at the end of which was Gill's Place, the rooming house. There was no one
in the tiny lobby except Franken, the strange man who was always to be
found coiled at the entrance to the lift-tube. Franken nodded somberly as
Panglor approached. "Time for settling accounts, no?" said Franken, as
though to no one in particular. Panglor stopped, startled. He felt a rush of
anger at the intrusion. But Franken was always this way, offering obscure
words and observations, and Panglor had always thought him a little
different from the rest of the ghosts and the fools. Franken, perhaps, was
neither.
Panglor had never spoken to him, but he felt tempted to do so now.
Their eyes locked, and Panglor suddenly felt that his thoughts and feelings
had been read in an instant. Instead of whatever he'd been thinking to say,
he just nodded. Then he took the tube immediately to his floor.
Before he had even reached his door, he felt LePiep crying out to him
from inside. She had probably sensed him when he entered the lobby. He
hurried to unlock the door. The ou-ralot bounded into his arms. Flustered
and pleased, he cradled her, smoothing her wings, soothing her; rivulets of
joy ran into his thoughts. For a moment he stood holding her, his cares and
weariness eased by the ou-ralot's waves of empathy. "Peep," he muttered.
"How were you. Peep—okay?" She crooned in response, and he smiled for
the first time that day.
When he stepped into the shabby room, though, his problems came
back to him in spite of the ou-ralot's comforting presence. He was out of a
job, and nearly out of money; he was living in a dive, and couldn't even stay
here for long. His employment profile was poison; he'd never get a job in
space, not after that accident on his last flight in—when he had gotten just a
little upset, being alone too long in foreshortening, and he had
unintentionally disconnected the cargo pod before emergence. "Yeah,
Peep," he said, putting her down on the cot. "Won't be going back there any
more." But where would he go?
One of the two light panels in the wall had failed, so the room looked
even gloomier than usual. Lights in the railyard flashed and glimmered

through the dirty window. "Hyo-loop?" queried LePiep plaintively. She
blinked at him. "Hyoolp?"
He cursed and rubbed his eyes. "I don't know, Peep. We got to eat,
don't we?" He scratched the ou-ralot's head and thought. It was a bitch, all
right. They could get along for a couple of weeks, maybe, but no more.
Vikken had had to pay him a severance bonus, and there was a little of that
left, and a little of what he had made in eight days in the spaceport grevik
pits. But a month hanging around the Naiopean quarter had drained most of
his money. "I tried to stand it, Peep, really I did. I just couldn't take it any
more." He sighed and looked at her pityingly. What was it going to be like
for her now? She depended on him for everything. Well, she'd eat as long as
he did, maybe longer.
Even if she didn't understand, at least she felt for him; she gave him
that. And that was quite a lot. If he hadn't made friends with her, back on
Areax V, where would he be now? Alone, that was where. Without her
empathy touching him and sharing his pain and warming him when he was
cold. She was the only companion he'd known in years, and the only one he
wanted. They would manage somehow.
Practically the only thing he could see from the window was the
railyard down in the ravine, and even that was obscured by the mist and the
dark. But he could discern the movement of cars, a string of lights moving
down the side of the ravine. That had to be a train emerging from beneath
the city, bound for the northwest tunnel that curved away to the left, toward
. . . what? Well, it didn't matter. It was one of the passenger trains, bound
from here to somewhere else. He wished they were aboard. Any place
would be better than here, in sight of the spaceport.
Wishing wouldn't help, though. He couldn't afford a ticket, and even if
he could, he'd have no place to go at the other end. Don't think about it.
Turning away, he saw LePiep perched at the edge of the cot. She watched
him now, humping her folded wings up and down nervously. He stooped to
meet her gaze. A pulse of hope touched him, like a physical charge. "Okay,"
he said. "Let's go out, and if nothing else we can get wired out of our minds.
Right?"
"Hoop-lll."
"Right. But you stay straight enough to get us home." He glanced
around. Something suggested to him that he not leave everything lying
around, so he gathered up his few extra clothes and odds and ends, and

stuffed them into his duffel. He patted his wallet and unitool in his pockets,
and hefted the duffel thoughtfully. He might as well bring it along—never
know what they'd decide to do later on. He whistled to LePiep. She jumped
onto his left arm, and together they went out.
The night wasn't getting any warmer, and within minutes he was
shivering. Damn this climate, anyway—that, and his worn-out jacket. What
he needed was a heatercoat, but the last time he'd had cash for one of those,
he'd been on Hubspith II and hadn't needed one. The haze had cleared
somewhat, and more people were walking about. With LePiep peering
anxiously over his arm, he rounded the corner past Carmello's Den and
continued to Fender Way. They'd look around for a while here and perhaps
later go down to the rail station, just to check.
Soon, though, the aroma of cooking lured him into a tiny cafe on
Fender Way. They took a booth and had fried mock-cheese and moke, with
LePiep eating her share out of a saucer on the bench seat. The proprietor
looked unenthusiastic about their loitering around afterward, so Panglor
paid and out they went. The Naiopean quarter showed more life as the night
progressed: lights shining through club blinders and ghost-inhabited bodies
walking the streets, entering and leaving clubs, circling by and vanishing in
the gloom. When they reached Stet's, Panglor stopped. He pulled on his ear
and gritted his teeth. Well, they could walk around freezing or they could go
in here and get wired to the eyeballs. Either way, they'd feel rotten
tomorrow; but at least one way, he'd enjoy the rest of tonight.
LePiep poked her head up, nuzzling him. She loved going with him to
get wired—the empathy waves must be terrific—but she didn't understand
the problem. They couldn't afford to spend the money. Except . . . blissful
forgetfulness waited in there, available for a price, and not that high a price.
Oh, hell. He should be doing something positive, taking action. But . . .
LePiep looked up, purring. Perhaps she sensed his dilemma; after all,
whatever made him happy also made her happy. But she obviously wanted
to go in. He was torn between dread and desire, and a wish to give
happiness to this ou-ralot, who shared without complaint so much of his
sorrow. He sighed, closed his eyes, and opened them again, shivering.
"Okay, Peep—all right." He walked into Stet's.
Inside he walked around to the drinking bar, where a half-silvered
glass cut off the view from the rest of the club. He went past the glass,
hitching LePiep up to his shoulder, and faced a barhost. Customers moved

past him, some carrying drinks that shimmered with peculiar light
refractions. "I want—" Panglor said, thinking first to order a drink but
changing his mind, "just a booth."
"For the night?" asked the barhost, not looking up.
Panglor nodded, squinting. "Yeh," he said, when the man looked up
questioningly.
"That's thirteen two."
Panglor fished out the money. He patted LePiep and followed the man
past several curtained alcoves to an empty one. "Need help?" the host
asked. Panglor shook his head and closed the curtain behind him.
He settled LePiep in his lap and picked up the headset pieces. He fitted
the two halves together so that they encircled his head around the temples,
and then he touched the test control. A wave of pleasure shimmered through
him. "Hooeep!" whistled LePiep, pressing her head to his solar plexus.
With a smile, Panglor switched on the set for full cycle.
Ripples of electricity quivered at the edge of his mind, tingled at his
extremities, and slowly flushed inward and danced up his spine. His eyelids
fell closed, but light—soft colors—flickered inside his skull. There was an
itching arousal, stimulating him up and down his spine . . . and the cycles
from the wire grew faster, hotter . . . sound and touch washed through him,
carrying him toward the bliss of pure fantasy . . . and awareness slipped
away, leaving orchestrated pleasure.
* * *
When the last tingles faded, he blinked, trying to focus his eyes. The
wire set was cold. Somewhere in his mind, echoes of joy diminished to
some infinite, internal distance, ebbing . . . ebbing . . . gone.
He tried to remember the wire's pleasures, the sexual stimulation, the
hunger satisfaction, the bizarre psychedelic spectrum; but he could no more
recapture it now than he could a forgotten dream. Nothing at all of the wire
remained.
LePiep stirred, humming, then abruptly shook her head. She was
confused; Panglor felt her lingering pleasure subside, displaced by
reawakened awareness. She was picking up on his cold afterfeelings. There
was no physical hangover, and that was too bad in a way, because he would
have liked a blurred, aching head to numb his shame in coming here and
squandering time and money. She looked at him, and her eyes turned to

pools, as though she thought she had done him wrong. "Ah, Peep, no," he
growled. Letting her down, he felt a leaden unhappiness, though, and he
struck the counter-top futilely with his fist. The feeling did not go away. He
snugged his jacket around him, scooped up LePiep and his duffel again,
pushed back the curtain, and hurried out into the street.
The air was damp and chilling and misty again. The street was
deserted. He set off down Fender Way, the buildings looming over him,
dark and enormous. A pale, predawn light showed among the structures and
mountains in the east, and the full shapes were gradually beginning to
emerge from the darkness. Eventually they left the Naiopean quarter and
followed the road downward, looping southeast toward the lower section of
Nolaran.
The dawn threw its first rays over the mountains as he crossed a long
overpass, from beneath which a transcon rail tunnel emerged. The railyards
were a steamy playground, striated by train segments on gleaming
inductance rails, single cars moving about like self-willed canisters,
shrugging over transfers and switchbacks. Beneath the overpass, the
morning passenger train emerged into the yards, one pale light after another
in a string, followed by scattered lights on the freight add-on segments.
Panglor watched it curve through the yards and disappear into the dim far
mountainside, into the northwest tunnel. A longing flickered through his
heart, and LePiep stirred with it, too—a longing to leave this city, to sever
the past, to ride the rail beneath the mountains.
He turned back the way he had come, looking for the entrance to the
rail terminal drop-shaft. The motion brought him face to face with two men
—drugged-looking characters, who apparently had been ambling quietly
behind him. Panglor started. How had he let two ghosts creep up on him
like that?
The taller ghost sidled forward with a conspiratorial air. "Interested in
a few grams of trilium sprite, friend?" he asked, not quite meeting Panglor's
eyes. "Sixteen quints." He held up a clear vial. In the vial, three tiny tablets
tumbled and twinkled in the dawn light. The man grinned slyly.
Panglor stared at the man balefully—but a rush went through his
stomach at the sight of the trilium sprite. That was blissful release there, in
some ways better than the wire, because when its effects evaporated it didn't
leave a black hole of a memory the way the wire did. Strictly contraband,

but here it was, at a price he could nearly afford—if he didn't want to eat or
sleep under a roof again. God, the release that stuff would give!
This ghost, with long, dusty hair tucked down into his coat collar,
watched him with half-lidded eyes; his companion seemed completely
glazed. What dope they were on, Panglor didn't try to guess. Could he trust
these two, even if he wanted the sprite? He closed his eyes for half a
moment, then blinked them open anxiously. The smaller man, he thought,
was noticing LePiep. "Hrrrl," the ou-ralot muttered, sensing the unpleasant
stare.
Panglor drew her close to his breast. "Beat it!" he snapped at the two.
They blinked in surprise. Wheeling away, Panglor walked along the bridge
railing, fast, trying not to think about the sprite he might have had, trying
very hard not to think about it. Where the hell was he walking, anyway?
He crossed the bridge and found a footpath that descended into the
ravine in a long zigzag. Following it to the bottom, he found himself on a
public way that skirted the railyards. He looked back up, but saw no sign of
the dealers. The sun was up, judging by the light in the sky, but down here
in the ravine the ground fog made it hard to be sure. So what to do now?
Shrugging, he walked along the wall edging the railyard until the wall
ended and a fence began. Here he could see into the yards, as far as the fog
permitted.
A section of the fence was open, ripped by vandals. He swung his
duffel into the opening, then ducked through himself and looked around
uneasily. A line of freight cars sat on the nearest track, with steam swirling
about their underbodies and lift-carriages. Panglor felt a crazy urge to walk
through the railyard—or perhaps it was not such a crazy urge. If he could
find an unsealed ventilated freight car being dispatched somewhere worth
going, he might manage to snag a ride. But the train on the first track was
no good; it was all ore and chemical cars.
He walked along the length of the train, looking for an end. He found a
break and stepped cautiously across the track between two cars, taking care
not to touch the possibly electrified rails. Once safely on the other side, he
looked left and saw several inspectors working some distance down the
line, their inspection units glowing eerily in the mist, like lanterns. He
walked the other way, conscious of his boots crunching in the gravel, and as
soon as he found a break in the next train over, he crossed again.

There was no point in wandering aimlessly. What he needed was to
determine where these various trains were bound and when they were
departing. Perhaps the cars were marked somehow. He scanned the train on
the left. Soon he found an identification plate on one of the cars and stepped
closer to read: Vikken Rail Conglomerate, Division of Vikken Traders, Ltd.
"Damn!" he whispered; he hadn't known Vikken was in the rail business.
He inspected several more cars and found the same identification. Could
they own the whole yard? "Jeezus." He smacked his thigh with his fist. The
last outfit in the world he wanted to get entangled with now was Vikken.
Well, no help for it. But maybe he could get a free ride from the
bastards.
He could find no routing information on the tags; it was all electronic.
Well, he knew from watching every day that westbounders generally left in
the early morning, after being made up somewhere on this side of the yard.
If he could find the right one . . .
But how?
Discouraged, he set his duffel down for a moment and shifted LePiep
to the other arm. When he stooped to pick up the duffel again, he felt a
sudden wave of dizziness. Things were moving around him. But it wasn't
his equilibrium; it was the train, moving by electric induction, silent as a
breath. He hadn't even noticed it lift off the rails—the undercarriages now
floated a couple of centimeters above the guides—but already it was
accelerating, the cars and couplings creaking in a soft choir as they moved
by. He watched in startled awe.
When the last car disappeared into what was left of the morning fog,
he turned to go. And saw two men standing on the opposite side of the
track, watching him. "Urrrrl," muttered LePiep. He squeezed her gently, but
his own fear began to rise, choking him.
"What are you doin', mate?" asked one of the men. They started to
cross the track, and they didn't look friendly.
Panglor squinted. He couldn't tell if they were the inspectors he had
seen earlier, or guards. Either way, he was in trouble; the question was
whether or not they carried weapons. He didn't see any. Clearing his throat,
he shrugged and said, "Just moving on my way." He turned and started
walking, feeling their eyes on his back. They would follow, of course. But
what would they do?

"Mate!" the man barked. "I said, what are you doing?"
Panglor glanced back but kept walking. They were following. He was
afraid that anything he could say would hurt him—so he ignored them.
"Stop right there, brother," the second man warned. That one had
something in his hand, Panglor suddenly realized. The next thing he felt
was a tingling numbness expanding from the small of his back down into
his legs and straight up his spine. The last thing he was aware of was
cradling LePiep and twisting his body to cushion her as he hit the ground.

OceanofPDF.com

Chapter 4
Somebody kept moving in front of the lights, making them erratic.
Dizzying. He was dizzy enough already, and that variation in the light made
him dizzier still . . . and nauseous. He rolled suddenly to the edge of the
slab he was lying on and was violently, convulsively ill. It was over in a
moment—except for the dry heaving, and that lasted an eternity. "For
chrissake," someone complained. "Get a bucket. Cheezus, what a smell!"
Finally he managed to control his heaving, and he just panted, hanging his
head over the floor. The smell brought him to the brink of retching again,
and he flopped back, groaning.
"Goddamn," someone else said, poking at the floor with something.
There was a humming and sucking noise.
All Panglor could see was a crimson blur, and there was a buzzing of
blood between his eyeballs. Gradually, though, he focused on the fact that at
least two, and maybe more, persons stood in a room with him. He sensed
that they were not friendly; but he felt a wave of caring, empathy. LePiep.
He squinted, trying to look around, and suddenly he saw her. She
whimpered with joy and fear; she was on a table an arm's length away,
caged, her eyes flashing wildly. "Hey, there," Panglor croaked in a whisper.
He tried to get up on one elbow, to reach her, but couldn't find the strength.
A hand cut off his reach. "None of that," a man growled. Panglor, with
an effort, focused his eyes upward and saw a rough-faced man glaring down
at him. What was going on here? Suddenly he remembered: the railyards—
he had been stunned with a nervie. "You awake enough to listen?" Panglor
stared up at him dumbly. "Cripes," the man muttered, turning away. "You
better wake up fast, pal. You're in some big trouble." He returned a moment
later with a glass of water.
The glass felt greasy in Panglor's hand, and the water smelled rusty,
but Panglor sipped at it greedily. His mouth felt loathsome. He looked back
at LePiep and saw her staring at him imploringly. "Why do you have her in
that cage?" he croaked harshly. "She didn't do anything."
"Friend, we'll do the talking," the man said, taking away the glass
before Panglor had finished. He bent and squinted at Panglor, then turned to

another man in the corner of the room. "Okay, Mister Garikoff. I think he's
awake."
The man called Garikoff came forward. He was an older man; he was
dressed expensively, but his face bore the scars and stains of the cheap
cosmetics popular among laborers on Veti IV. Glinting pins held back his
hair, and his eyes shone wide and intent. When he spoke, his voice filtered
through a layer of gravel. "Pilot Balef, why don't you sit up, so we can talk
man to man?"
Panglor slid his legs down off the slab and forced his body upright. He
still felt lightheaded; he breathed shallowly, trying not to upset his stomach
again.
"That's better," said Garikoff. He stood with his short legs wide apart
in a fighter's stance. "Now, Balef, you were apprehended trespassing on the
yards of the Vikken Rail Conglomerate."
Panglor grunted.
Garikoff watched him quizzically. "I presume you know that
trespassing with intent to steal is a felony here—with criminal and civil
penalties."
Panglor remained silent. There was a chill spreading through his gut,
but he had nothing to say to the likes of these people. Whatever they were,
they were clearly not the law.
"Severe penalties," Garikoff said. "Very severe penalties. And the fact
that force was required to stop you—that's resistance."
"Who are you?" Panglor growled.
"I know a lot about you, Balef," said Garikoff. "I suppose it's only fair
I should tell you who we are. We're not the law. That's good for you,
because the law could be a lot tougher on you than we're going to be." He
held Panglor's gaze intently. "I'm Lousa Garikoff. This here's Lid, and that's
all you need to know about him, I guess." He was pointing at the man who
had spoken first. Now he hooked a thumb at a third man, sitting in the
corner. "That's Billijo. Maybe later my partner Grakoff will be in, and then
we can have a real party." He laughed contemptuously.
"Okay, Balef. We've got you. Lid here works for the Crompton
Security Systems, and they work for the Vikken Railyards, and he can put
you under arrest right now. But—he also works for me." Garikoff smiled.
"Now me, I don't work for any of them. I work for myself. But I might be

able to help you out of this jam you're in. How would you like to fly a ship
for me?"
Suddenly the name registered. Garikoff. Of Grakoff-Garikoff? That
was a shipping firm, relatively small but well known, with one of the lowest
reputations in the area. Why would they want him? "No, thanks," he
muttered.
Garikoff studied him for a moment. "You're not impressed with my
offer, I see."
Feigning courage, Panglor moved as though to stand.
"Sit down!" Garikoff barked.
Panglor sat, feeling cold. Garikoff pulled at his collar and continued.
"Balef, you don't stand a chance of getting off this planet. You were canned
by Vikken five weeks ago. Psychiatric incompetence." His eyes pierced
Panglor. "True, I don't doubt, but that doesn't make you any worse than the
rest of the incompetents they've got over there. But that doesn't matter—
because you've got that record now, and you'll never fly again. Except we're
giving you a chance."
He paused to observe Panglor's reaction and seemed disappointed
when Panglor displayed none. "All right. You're in trouble with the law—
big trouble—and if Vikken prosecutes, you'll wind up in the prison mines.
You know about those?" Panglor hesitated, then shook his head. "They're
bad, Balef. Lots of people don't come out of them alive."
Panglor nodded numbly.
Garikoff gazed at him fiercely, and to avoid the gaze, Panglor looked
at LePiep. Garikoff said, "Your animal might miss you."
Panglor looked up angrily.
"Now, don't get upset. I was just pointing out the kind of thing that can
happen if you don't use your brains."
Panglor looked back at LePiep and said nothing.
"Aren't you going to ask me why we want you? There's not much in
your record to recommend you, especially after that botch of bringing in
your last ship." Garikoff chuckled, shaking his head. "Oh, yes, we have
your whole record. You'd be a good pilot, probably, if you weren't so
unstable. Good performance profiles—but a record from your toes up of
bad personality reports. Falling apart between trips and during trips,

depression, crew friction—it's all in there." He shook his head again, in
mock admiration. "Balef, the hell of it is, you're a good pilot."
"Damn good pilot," Panglor snarled.
"But a disaster." Garikoff paused. "Now, if you had the right incentive
holding you together, I'll bet you could do a real job. I'll bet you could. And
I'm going to give you that chance. Your last chance. What do you say?"
"What's the catch?"
Garikoff shifted so that he was in the way of the light, silhouetted.
Then he turned, and his face became visible again, scarred, with those wide
eyes. "Why, no catch. Not if you complete the job."
No catch, thought Panglor. That meant there was a very large catch.
Probably it was a job no sane pilot would fly—probably dangerous,
probably illegal.
"You'll receive a ship and your instructions," said Garikoff. "I wouldn't
hide from you that there'll be a certain risk involved, but you did say you
were a good pilot. 'Damn good pilot,' I think you said." He looked at
Panglor shrewdly, then glanced at LePiep, mewling in her cage. His
expression was chilling. "Anyway," said Garikoff, "your alternatives—well,
the mines are—well, they're just not a pleasant place to live. Or to die."
Panglor tensed with outrage and fear. It was one thing for this Garikoff
to threaten him, but he was threatening LePiep, too, and that was more than
an honest man could accept. Well, he wouldn't be pushed this way; he'd do a
little pushing back, as soon as he had a better opportunity.
Seemingly reading his thoughts, Garikoff gestured to Lid, who reached
for his weapon. They both stared at the cage, at the ou-ralot. Lid fingered
the butt of his gun.
"No!" Panglor snarled, halfway to his feet. He was stopped by the sight
of the weapon pointed at his chest.
Garikoff nodded. "Do you think you'd rather fly?"
Thinking furiously and getting nowhere, Panglor knew he was
defeated—at least for now. Perhaps it wouldn't be so bad; at least he'd be
getting back into space and off this damned planet. "All right," he growled.
But nothing said he couldn't try to beat them later.
Nodding again, Garikoff said, "Be ready to take tomorrow afternoon's
shuttle to the orbital yards. This time tomorrow. You'll get your pass and
instructions at the spaceport."

"What time is it now?"
"Seventeen oh five," answered Lid, who seemed disappointed that
Panglor had backed down.
"All right. Give me back my ou-ralot, and I'll be there then," Panglor
said, standing.
Garikoff scratched his neck. "I think we'll keep your animal here, just
as a little guarantee—"
"No." Flatly.
Startled, Garikoff stared at him, then shook his head. "I thought we had
an understanding, but I guess we'll have to show—"
"No deal. She comes with me or I don't fly. Period." Panglor squinted
at him angrily.
"She'll be returned to you as soon as—"
"No deal."
Garikoff studied him; Panglor crossed his arms and stared back. He
tried to think reassuring thoughts toward LePiep, who was jittering about in
her cage.
Relaxing, Garikoff said, "All right. You can take her. But you
remember something. You don't have anything—you don't have an ounce of
freedom—until this job is done. We've got people in places you wouldn't
dream of—and that includes every place you're going. You will only make
one mistake, because one will be your last. Am I being clear?"
Panglor glared back, but didn't reply.
The door opened suddenly. A man walked in who looked remarkably
like Garikoff, except he was shorter, with fatter features. He looked briefly
at Panglor and said, "Well?"
"He's our man," Garikoff said. "He leaves tomorrow."
"Are you sure he can handle it?" The fat man hooked his thumb
scornfully at Panglor.
"He can do it. Balef, you ready to leave?"
"You're letting him go?" The fat man's eyebrows quivered as he arched
them.
"Who is he?" Panglor asked belligerently.
"Yeah, I'm letting him go," said Garikoff. "He's Grakoff, my partner.
My brother, too, you could say. You can go now. Just remember what I told
you."

"Hold it!" Grakoff protested.
Garikoff's annoyance was clearly growing. As he looked at his partner,
he said to Panglor, "Tell you what, Balef. Since you may never have the
chance again, we'll stand you to a night out—on us. Have yourself a woman
if you want; it may be a long time before you see one again—that way,
anyhow. There's a place called Jeddle's Nest—go there and have yourself a
time, and we'll fix it so you can charge it to us. Okay?" Garikoff's eyes
never left his partner as he talked to Panglor. "Now, Balef, get the hell out
of here. Take your bird with you. And be there tomorrow or you're a dead
man. Got that?"
Panglor's face was hot as he scooped LePiep out of the cage. His duffel
lay on the floor, by the door, by Lid's feet. He picked that up, too, and went
out the door without a glance back. Lid slammed the door behind him.
Panglor soothed LePiep and looked around; he was standing in a dingy
corridor. He went through a battered door and stepped out onto a landing—
and gazed at the spaceport. A flight of stone steps led to the ground. The
building was part of a cluster of old buildings in a remote corner of the
spaceport grounds. The landing field lay between him and the main
entrance. The spaceport lights gleamed coldly on the metal railings in the
early-evening darkness.
Somehow the fact that he had been held in an old warehouse made him
angrier than ever. Well, he would make things even somehow, sometime.
But meanwhile he had better do what they told him.
He hurried down the steps and got away from the spaceport as fast as
he could walk.
* * *
The first thing he realized was that he was starved, and so was LePiep.
There wasn't much money left; but on the other hand, he didn't have much
use for cash, beyond a meal and a room for the night. Tomorrow he was off
on some death-flight; or if it wasn't, he expected to be paid for it. So there
was no reason not to squander what cash he had.
And he had a night at Jeddle's Nest coming, on Garikoff. He didn't
much like the idea of taking something from a man who had held him
prisoner and threatened him, but he guessed he wouldn't mind having a few
stiff bangers, and if there was a stoker he liked, maybe that, too. But he'd
pay for his own dinner tonight.

They had dinner in a quiet place he knew. Together, they chewed their
way through two main courses and a dessert, then went back to the rooming
house. They didn't stay; Panglor simply paid for one more night in the same
room and left his bag there. Franken, as usual, sat coiled near the lift tube.
"Back tonight, gone tomorrow, eh, sir?" Franken said, startling him. Panglor
stared at him uneasily. Franken seemed innocent enough, but his odd
remark was too accurate for comfort, as though the man had sources for his
insights. Panglor turned away, grunting, "Begone, yourself." Ghost. And he
walked out of the lobby and into the street, wondering how soon a report of
his actions would reach Garikoff.
After wandering a while, stalling, he gave up and went into Jeddle's
Nest. The place set him on edge at once; it was crowded, the music was
jarring, and the small holographic figures that danced lewdly in the air both
tantalized and annoyed him. He considered leaving—but no, he was here
for a few bangers, and maybe more, and he was going to have them. He
pushed his way through to the bar, then leaned over toward the bartender
and explained that he was on Garikoff's tab. The bartender scrutinized the
bartop as he talked, but nodded when he was finished. "Then—I'll have a
Feldman," he said. An instant later, he realized that ethanol was really not
what he wanted; but it was already in front of him. The bartender was fast.
He shrugged and moved away from the bar, sipping the drink. LePiep
was perched nervously on his shoulder. The alcohol spread in a fine mist
over the sensory endings of his brain, and he knew that this wasn't the right
drink for tonight. This would make him groggy; what he needed was a stiff
dose of jeeric acid to liven him up. LePiep bounced up and down on his
shoulder, whistling. "Does that mean I'm right?" he asked her. Or was she
just excited by the scandalous things those holographic figures were doing
to each other over the tables?
Edging back to the bar, he put the Feldman down and asked for a
double jeeric acid (and vaguely wondered how much Garikoff was going to
let him spend). He picked his teeth thoughtfully and looked at the glass. The
jeeric acid was yellow, with a reddish haze above its surface. He sipped,
inhaling the fumes; the effect was like a draft of scented air flowing over his
mind, splitting apart the congested lobes, and freeing and re-channeling
certain emotional energies.
Feeling faintly exhilarated, he headed for the back room. Normally he
wouldn't, not so quickly, anyway—but what was the point in delaying?

LePiep murmured excitedly in his ear; she wanted him to go ahead. He
passed through a shimmer-curtain and looked around. Several stokers were
lounging about; he ignored the male and the androgyne and studied the
three females. After a moment, he went to the second closest one and asked,
"Are you taken? I have credit with the house tonight."
The woman looked up, startled. She had dark-tanned skin and black,
shoulder-length hair cut in serrated fashion, and wore a silky lounging robe.
She glanced at her companions, chuckled, and said, "That wasn't much of a
fair-game opening. Don't you want to play? You might win me for free—or
Evella, and she's more expensive."
"Are you taken?" Panglor repeated, trying not to let himself become
irritated.
"Wouldn't you like to win me for free? The all-night stoke?" she said,
blinking slyly.
"No," he said, "I told you, I have house credit." He remembered now:
Jeddle's Nest had some ridiculous system of competing for your stokers in a
gambling game—the kind of thing he hated.
"You don't—"
"No." He pulled at his jeeric acid. The fumes moved powerfully
through his head, and in a few minutes more he might not care; he'd occupy
himself for the night with the fabulous mazes being opened in his mind by
the jeer. But that wasn't what he wanted. The jeer was just to enhance his
mood.
She watched him thoughtfully. "What's your name?" she asked, rising,
with a shimmer of cloth.
"Panglor Balef. What's yours?"
"Taleena." She did something behind the railing where she had been
sitting, then pointed to a plate on the rail and said, "Print there. You want
the night?" Panglor nodded and touched where she had indicated. Satisfied,
she straightened up and looked at him. Suddenly she frowned. "Is your
animal safe?"
Panglor chuckled. "Sure she's safe. Haven't you ever seen an ou-ralot
before? Gentlest animal there is."
Taleena didn't look entirely convinced, but she shrugged. "Seen some
girls chewed up by strange pets before, that's all." She motioned for him to
follow, and led him back through a dim hallway into a stoking room. The

door opaqued behind them. LePiep was purring audibly now, and bunching
her wings. Taleena looked at her with a softer expression and cautiously
reached out to stroke the ou-ralot. Her hostility toward Panglor seemed to
disappear. Either she had decided that she liked him, or she had slipped
completely into her professional role. Panglor rather hoped that it was the
latter; he could do without the entanglement of genuine liking.
He looked at her and didn't know what to say. The stoking room was
comfortable, with a soft mat and wall hangings, and soft lighting; and it was
well equipped—the problem was to choose his favorite stoking
enhancement. The truth was, he had little experience in this kind of thing.
Taleena gestured along the wall. "We have wire, or lucigenic, or sensamp.
And we have some special Kili devices, for something different."
Panglor stared, thinking. He chose the Kili devices.
With the barest of preliminaries, they undressed in silence. They
touched, in the Kili field. Soon Panglor was aswarm in the warmth of
Taleena's body; his senses rearranged themselves in a sea of electrified
darkness. Sight and taste and touch ebbed from his awareness, but hearing
and smell expanded and occupied new perceptual pathways in his mind. He
heard the sound of his accelerating heartbeat, the rumbling and rushing of
blood, and from his ear the huffing and vocalizations of Taleena's
quickening breath. Musk penetrated his thoughts, and salt from the organic
sea, funneled along live olfactory nerveways. Touch returned, from the
inside. His skin became hot, and sensitive to the contractions of his own
muscles. It quivered at the touch of Taleena's skin, the pressure of her
bones, of her muscle and blood. An itching heat sent a runner of sensation
up the back of his spine and then sank—a ball of warmth—into his stomach
and pelvis. From his pelvis, he felt a stiff, tingling lance culminating in a
point of itching fire.
Slowly he moved, aware of his shifting perspective in relation to
Taleena; now she surrounded him more, now less, and the angles of touch
changed, and with them changed the pressure of the itch that grew from the
back of his pelvis forward. Visual awareness expanded. Her gaze bored into
him with haunted desire, two eyes with auburn irises, pupils large; they
began to revolve, to spin, to spiral into his mind. Electrical fire danced in
her eyes, glowed in her cheeks. Musky incense penetrated his skull, stirring
him to speed his movements. Nerves and spine became hollow pathways
for energy: tiny orange flames darting and licking their way up and down,

and out and back, and expanding into the back of his pelvis, stuttering. A
fire was burning in the focal point, feeding forward, flickering out to the
muscles, to the base of the skull. Emotions roiled darkly, seeking release,
seeking daylight, seeking to be burned clean.
There was a gasping and huffing of air, and dizzily he focused on the
sound to realize that it was Taleena panting with mounting ferocity; it was
his own breath, too, and the two winds met and split in tongues. The flames
danced hotter and flickered yellow and white through his inner space, and
leaked out and toasted his skin, and her skin. Hotter still, they smoked of
incense, and forged him strong and stiff and hard, glittering at the tip. The
focus moved quickly, thrusting, sliding out of rhythm, hard—and erupted
from the base of his spine, from the pelvis, firing forward through the lance
and out from the tip in two, five, seven shock waves into the surrounding
medium. And the medium bucked back, reflecting the shock waves, and
across the continuum Taleena gasped and vocalized, her sound waves
swarming upon his thoughts. And then the fire was spent, but still the
medium rocked with echoes of the eruptions, the waves lifting him and
squeezing and dropping suddenly, washing over him like the breath of a hot
fan.
Time echoed in its own waves through the continuum, and after certain
passages of time, the contact points slid and parted. Electricity leaked away,
heat radiated, but the smoke lingered and was the last vestige of the fire to
pass away.
* * *
Gradually Panglor emerged from the Kili field, his awareness returning
to reality. Taleena rolled back from him, her hair tussled, her face
glistening. He smiled hesitantly. She returned the smile, and for a moment
he was afraid. But the fear danced away. A great charge of emotion had
been burned from him, vented in blissful release, and he almost felt sane.
He gave her a half-smile and half-frown, and lay back and looked at the Kili
field instrument, now dark, its work done, and wondered what the Kili had
designed it for.
Be careful now. Keep the thoughts and the wits together.
LePiep touched him gently with her nose. She crouched at the edge of
the stoking mat and watched him; she was content from his pleasure, and
only at the edge of her peacefulness was there an echo of his uncertainty—

bewilderment, in these glowing, fuzzy moments after stoking. Panglor
stroked her with a finger, wondering how long he could feel calm.
"She enjoyed it, didn't she?" Taleena asked, pushing herself up on one
elbow to watch LePiep.
Panglor nodded. Really, he didn't want to talk about LePiep with a
stoker. LePiep was personal to him, and personal matters shouldn't be
involved here.
Taleena nodded, as though understanding. She got up. "Come on," she
said, tugging at him. "We have ten minutes in the massage." She paled a
door in the far corner of the room and went out into a hallway. Panglor
watched her rear bouncing, and then hurried after her, stumbling as he tried
to pull on his pants. When he caught up with Taleena in a warm, tiled
chamber, she chuckled and said, "Throw your pants back in the other room.
They'll be all right." Reluctantly he obeyed, tossing them over LePiep's
head as she crept in behind him. Taleena did something at the far wall.
A mist issued from the walls, encircling them. Panglor drew back
uneasily, but when the mist touched him with a gentle caress, he started to
relax. It felt good. The mist deepened quickly, and a moment later he could
barely see Taleena—just the outline of her face and arms, the points of her
breasts. She stepped closer and put a finger to his chest. "Feel okay?" she
asked quietly.
"Hhrruuu," said LePiep, from somewhere in the mist.
Panglor felt a curious pressure against his skin. It was the mist,
kneading him with rippling compression waves. He stood silent, blinking;
the warm vapors massaged him gently and fluidly. His neck and shoulder
and back muscles relaxed, drained of tension. His face softened, and he
almost smiled again.
When the mist receded, Taleena watched him with twinkling eyes. She
looked down at LePiep and laughed. The ou-ralot was walking in a big
circle, grinning, eyes wide, her fur fluffed as though dry cleaned, but
glistening with a few droplets of moisture. Panglor was caught by
simultaneous feelings: amused by LePiep, awed by the sight of Taleena's
unclothed body, and disturbed by her warmth and apparent liking for him.
Tension began to reenter his muscles, and he started to get another erection,
a funny, twitchy one. Flushing with embarrassment, he turned away from
Taleena, scooped up LePiep, and returned to their room.

Taleena seemed puzzled and hurt when she caught up with him.
"Didn't you enjoy it?" she asked.
Panglor looked at her again and had trouble breathing. She stood with
her legs parted, hands on her hips, her skin and pubic mound still damp,
gleaming. "Yes," he said, choking. He tried to pull on his pants, but his
erection was growing stronger, and he couldn't manage. He suddenly sat
and covered his lap with his shirt. "Yes—yes, fine."
Now she's upset. Why'd you get her upset?
Taleena slipped on her robe, without fastening it. "What's wrong then?
You paid the whole night. Are you going to leave?"
"Y-yes," he stuttered. "No." He thought frantically. A chance to stay
with a woman, maybe the last ever. "I guess—I'll stay a little while." He
couldn't look up at her, though; his feelings were too exposed in his
confusion. What is the matter? he wondered. Why can't you just let it go
like it was going, and don't make problems?
He looked up, finally. Her robe was partly open, and the frontal view it
provided made his nervous system start ringing again.
She noticed his glance and pulled the robe closed, then sat down a few
feet from him. "Is that better?"
He nodded and swallowed. Trouble was, he liked her, too. Why did she
have to be friendly?
"You want to just talk?" Taleena said, lowering her gaze pointedly to
his lap, where his clothes were bunched absurdly. He felt a twinge under his
clothes and squinted, shrugging. She was just trying to lighten things. "Hey,
it's okay," she said. "Not many spacers I meet in here want to do that, you
know? It's kind of nice for a change." He looked at her in puzzlement, and
she said, "It's okay to be shy, too." He looked away, red-faced, and reached
out to scoop back LePiep, who was wandering away, gurgling in a troubled
tone.
"Can I see her?" Taleena asked. Panglor hesitated, then guided LePiep
over with his hand. The ou-ralot tiptoed forward and nuzzled Taleena's
fingers. Taleena fussed over her for a minute, then said, "She's a honey."
She stroked the ou-ralot again, and LePiep crooned with pleasure.
Panglor felt a twinge of jealousy. At once, LePiep hopped out of
Taleena's lap and came back to him. "Hrruuu?" she said.

"I can see where her loyalties are," Taleena said good-naturedly. As she
spoke, she leaned forward, and the top of her robe fell open, exposing her
right breast. Panglor tensed, torn by confused desires. Taleena pulled her
robe together again. "Sorry," she said gently.
"Why? It's your job." He looked away, scowling.
"I wasn't thinking of business. I just didn't want you to feel
uncomfortable." She was clearly puzzled.
Panglor shrugged, nodded, shook his head. Sexual desire was dancing
above his many other dark thoughts. He could give in to it if it was just
business with her. But no—she liked him, she was concerned for his
comfort, and any moment she would ask him what was troubling him. That
terrified him—the prospect that someone could ask, could care. Perhaps he
should get out of here before things got out of control.
"Do you want to talk about anything?" she asked. She peered at him,
frowning.
His eyes refused to focus for a moment. This was all wrong. He had
come here for a mindless, high-intensity stoking—just flush out the glands,
clear the mind, and get out—but look what was happening. She wanted to
touch him as a woman, not just a stoker. But he had other worries, he had to
get his life in order—no, Grakoff-Garikoff had already done that, hadn't
they?—but he still had to do it for himself.
He sat ruminating for some time, before he became aware of Taleena
touching his hand, and saying, "Hey. Come on. Come on."
Jerking his head up, he met her gaze. But he couldn't answer. She liked
him, for God's sake.
"It's nothing," he muttered finally, managing an unhappy smile. He
was sweaty, and he felt clumsy, rumbling at his tangled clothing.
"Do you want to get dressed? We can just sit here all night, if you
want. Maybe you'll feel like talking later." Her gaze was soft and real, and it
was killing him. So warm, so human. Why couldn't she have remained a
ghost? Now she was going to be angry because he was failing to respond,
and that would be human, too.
LePiep was burrowing nervously into the turned-back coverlet on the
mat. He watched her dumbly for a few seconds. "I—" he said. "I—" He
looked at his hands, and up at Taleena, and away again, and he blurted, "I—
have to go. Now." He struggled to his feet, conscious of his nakedness but

no longer caring, and he started putting on his clothes. LePiep whistled
unhappily, but he was too busy avoiding Taleena's gaze to worry about
LePiep. His left foot caught in the pant leg, and he jammed it through
anyway, ripping the fabric. Taleena's expression was narrow and
disappointed—he hadn't meant to look; it had just happened—but he
couldn't do anything to make her feel better, either. He thumbed down his
shirt and pants fastenings, and clipped on his shoes. He looked around.
LePiep. "Hup!" he said harshly, and caught her when she jumped. She
trembled silently in his arms.
His eyes got blurry as he faced Taleena. She was standing, too, and he
thought that she was upset, and maybe crying, but actually he couldn't see
clearly to tell. "Uh—" he said.
"Well," said Taleena.
"I—"
"If you have to, then—well, I guess you should if you have to."
"But I—" Blood was rushing so hard through his head that all he could
hear was the thunder of falling water, a waterfall drowning thoughts that got
swept into the current. Space, tomorrow he'd be in space, and—the
waterfall was louder, and a woman who might have touched him was
disappearing downstream—rushing water, get away, get clear!
He edged toward the door. Taleena nodded—her disappointment, her
humanity stabbing at him. You're a ghost, you can't hurt me, can't.
Closer to the door now, he hesitated one last time, waiting for Taleena
to put back on her professional indifference; only she didn't, wouldn't, or
couldn't, and he had to walk away from her humanity. He went out quickly,
LePiep trembling in his arms. But it was the wrong door. He turned and
walked back through, face burning as he walked past Taleena's eyes, and
out the correct exit.
The Nest was quiet. He hurried through the parlor and out into the
night.
* * *
Nolaran fell away beneath him right on schedule the next afternoon.
He couldn't see it happen, because all he could see was a scarred green
bulkhead in front of his seat, the worst in the shuttle. But he could picture it;
and good riddance to the hellhole. The shuttle lurched and banged around,
giving him and the rest of the passengers an inexcusably rough ride through

Veti IV's atmosphere. He gripped his armrests and thought about getting
back into space. That part was okay. What was bad was the worrying about
what Grakoff-Garikoff had planned for him.
The shuttle docked late, after a traffic tie-up at the orbital spaceyards.
Panglor found his way to the dispatcher's office, where he was given a set
of command papers for a foreshortening freighter—Driscoll-class, a dead
giveaway that the ship was some damned ancient relic. He studied the flight
plan, directing him to jump for Dreznelles 3 and wait for further
instructions. According to the schedule dictated here, he had an hour to get
over to the ship at her mooring and get her powered up for flight—no time
for preflight inspection. That stunk. Panglor Balef never took a ship into
deep space, much less foreshortening, without a thorough preflight.
Bastards. He'd see about that; he'd change the flight plan.
He tapped in an opening code for the ship on the com-console. As he
did so, he noticed a spacer nearby, a station man, staring at him in a
particularly unfriendly manner, clicking his thumbnails together. Callused,
strong-looking hands. A Garikoff agent? Probably.
Maybe he wouldn't change the flight plan.
He cleared his throat and looked over the ship's registry. According to
the listing here, the ship had no name. He supplied one: The Fighting Cur.
Clearing the console, he picked up LePiep in her quarantine bag. Then
he went and found a taxi, and hurried out to look over this ship he was
going to fly.

OceanofPDF.com

Chapter 5
Dreznelles 3. Third-day, 0345.
Panglor eyed the clock grumpily and closed his eyes again. He cared
not a damn about these corporations, with their cutthroat rivalries. But they
hadn't asked him if he cared.
All of known space was an amoeba seventy light-years long and fifty
across the middle, sprinkled with star systems inhabited by man and
peppered with systems as yet unexplored. To corporate heads, space was a
gameboard in three vast dimensions—and corporate heads were the ones
who held the stones and played the game. Not that it was such an inaccurate
way of viewing things, or inherently bad—but the games grew extremely
fierce. Interstellar business was a strange mixture of courageous enterprise,
vain intelligence, trickery and deceit, backstabbing and extortion. None of it
made sense to him. With thousands of worlds awaiting exploration, they
killed each other for morsels—usually under the guise of peaceful
operations and the umbrella of the Foreshortening Trade Coalition.
Sabotage and trickery were simply facets of the game. Perhaps the fear of
foreshortening hardened corporate hearts; definitely, it increased the stakes.
0358.
Foreshortening—there was the irony. Foreshortening had opened the
stars to mankind; it had not been meant as a tool for treachery. Surely it was
hard enough to face the uncertainty of transit, frightening in itself, without
treachery. And yet, there it was. A capsule of distorted space. A pulled
stitch, a kink, a Lang dimensional stress in space—a ten-thousandfold
collapse!—and all it took was for the stitch to pop, the kink to straighten,
the stress to come undone at the wrong time, and a man was adrift to die, in
his own universe if he was lucky or in some limbo if he was not. And here:
people deliberately knocking ships into faulty insertions. Was this what
foreshortening had been meant for?
0412.
0420.
He came alert with a start. 0425. No putting it off any longer. Time to
check out of the waystation and get back to the Cur. The flight plan was

logged and computed, both the phony and the real, and the Cur would leave
mooring in four hours, less than one hour behind Deerfield.
He had been doing a lot of thinking, all right, but none of it had helped
him find a way out of this.
"Hooeep?" whistled LePiep, complaining for attention. She caught his
eye and tossed her head insolently.
Panglor rubbed her neck with his knuckles. "Sorry, honey." It had
really been more like a brooding stupor than what one would actually call
thinking. "Don't see a way out of it, old buddy. We want to still be alive
next week, wherever we are, so I guess we're going to bump that ship right
into limbo." He hesitated, then shrugged. "They never did anything for us,
anyway."
He got up and packed his duffel. There was one loose wafer, which he
fed to the ou-ralot. He scratched her, shaking his head.
By 0525, they were back aboard The Fighting Cur. LePiep began
hopping about, burrowing into the clutter they'd left in the control room.
Panglor logged the flight program into the ship's console from his pocket
computer, then set about checking the ship. She had been worked over by
station techs, and her small cargo of Veti IV metals products off-loaded; but
that was all the more reason to check her thoroughly. Panglor never liked
leaving a ship in the care of others. He walked through the habitable
sections: cabin, galley, airlock, repair cubicle, lifesystems, power room. He
sniffed about warily, but found nothing to arouse suspicion.
On second thought, he returned to the power room and checked the
remote readings. Internal power and grav-control were fine, but—sure
enough—some numbskull tech had failed to tighten an alignment on the
neutrino flux. Cursing, he set about making the correction himself; with the
overpower circuits G-G had built into the main drivers, he wanted to be
damn sure the pile was tuned. No point in blowing himself to kingdom
come. That job, by the time he was done, took two hours. He had to hurry
the rest of the preflight, then he battened down and went to power up the
control room for flight.
By the time he had stashed enough of the clutter to make the bay look
like a ship's bridge, the com-console was chirping at him, warning of
departure time. "LePiep!" he called, slapping the second couch. The ou-
ralot poked her head up, sniffed, and scurried out of sight. He glared. "Peep!

Get up here!" he roared. Sighing audibly, the ou-ralot hopped up beside
him. He grunted. "Stay there," he said, powering up the board. The
viewscreen came alive, and the control bay lights went down. "Waystation
Control," he growled into the com. "The Fighting Cur to undock and
proceed." Control responded and then it became a matter of waiting.
The spidery tugs soon came and latched and pulled the Cur out of
mooring, and Panglor watched the immense cluster of the D3 Waystation
shrink against space like a glittering surrealistic beehive. Then the tugs
broke and departed, and he took control over his ship and locked her into
the acceleration run in the outbound linear-shift field. For several hours he
accelerated under external field power alone; then he engaged the Cur's
drivers and used both ship's power and the station's field power to
accelerate toward the insertion orbit. They would drive at about four gees
for a day, before insertion.
Things would happen fast tomorrow, and he had to be right on the
beam to make it work. He would be traveling at one hell of a clip, and so
would Deerfield. The traffic patrol usually moved fast on regular watch, as
well—though not that fast—and if Garikoff was shadowing him, his ship
would be doing the same. Quite a party, speeding toward the collapsing-
field. Panglor had two main worries. One was having a hole punched in him
by the patrol craft if he deviated from flight path, or by Garikoff if he did
not. The other was the actual maneuver. Deerfield and the Cur would be
plunging through the collapsing-field at different angles, for different
insertions. He had to deviate enough to put him on collision course, count
on Deerfield to swerve out of his path, and still have his own course set for
good insertion.
It was going to be tough.
Once everything was on auto, he frowned at LePiep. "Hungry, bud?"
She whistled in the affirmative. He was hungry, too, so they went back into
the galley. He had a flatwrap cake and moke, and LePiep had the usual.
When they returned to the control room, he brooded on the instruments and
the stars for a while, then shrugged and closed his eyes. "Wake me if
anything happens, Peep," he muttered, and with that he dozed off.
He woke with thoughts crawling through his mind like termites. It was
all he could do to focus his eyes. Was he really going to do what Garikoff
wanted? Which was the greater wrath—Garikoff's or the law's? Garikoff
would probably be watching him more closely, but still . . . if he was going

to risk his neck under the gun either way, why should he do what Garikoff
wanted? Maybe they didn't think he would rebel. Maybe they didn't give
him enough credit.
Maybe he could bluff.
"Hey, Piglor!" he heard.
His heart nearly seized. He twisted right, then left. Sitting in the corner
of the control bay, watching him, was Alontelida Castley—the little twitch
who had plagued him back at the station.
He began to choke. He squeezed his eyes closed and forced himself to
breathe slowly and regularly. His eyes popped open. The girl was watching
him with amusement. "What are you doing here?" he yelled.
Alo chuckled and got up from where she was sitting. "I'm stowing
away."
"What do you mean, you're stowing away?" He rose from his couch—
and staggered, dizzy with rage.
"I'm here, aren't I?" She shrugged, then backed away slowly. "Now,
don't get excited—"
Panglor fumed, staring at her. This was incredible. What the hell? Of
all the people in the universe . . . of all the incredibly goddamn stupid things
for any human being to do . . .
Alo took a deep breath, then blurted: "I know where you're going, and
I want to go along. I can help you with the ship—I know a lot about ships."
She shut her mouth. Then she shrugged again, eyes glinting.
"You think you know where I'm going," he said sarcastically. He shook
his head, trying to clear the cobwebs. This was impossible. "You think you
know where I'm going?" he growled. He snorted.
"Yeah. I checked your flight log. You're going to Quetzal, in the Formi
system." She looked at the viewscreen, then at him, then nodded.
"Oh," he said. Christ! he thought. For a moment, he said nothing more,
because there was this incredible pressure building in his forehead, right
behind the frontal sinuses. "Oh," he said tightly. "It never occurred to you
that maybe I was going to Dreznelles 17, then Atruba, then the Elacian
National Worlds. That never occurred to you."
"No. Should it have?" She lifted her chin insolently, but her eyes
showed confusion. "Are we?"

He cursed silently. His hand stopped LePiep, who was bobbing her
head suspiciously toward Alo. Waves of alarm touched him. "What did you
do it for?" he demanded.
"To get out of there," said Alo. "I don't care where you're going—I'll
go there."
He scowled again.
"I hid in the equipment locker. I needed to escape." She turned toward
the viewscreen. Her eyes were dark with emotion; there was something
swirling in her gaze, some hatred that he did not want to know about.
"Came to the wrong place," he said sardonically. His head ached
fiercely. What was it he had been thinking about? Bluffing Garikoff? "Hope
you brought your own food," he added. "Mine isn't for sale."
"As a matter of fact, I brought a whole bagful."
"Good. Go eat it. I have problems to solve, and I don't need you here
making them worse." His eyes were watering, and it seemed to be affecting
his brain. This bitch—on his ship! Good Christ. But he couldn't worry about
her now—he had to figure how to beat Garikoff. What was the thread he'd
been following? Bluffing . . . how? Start the run on Deerfield, then sheer off
through the field before any damage was done and hope to escape? At those
velocities, G-G would have to be shadowing him pretty tightly to be sure of
hitting him.
He stared at Alo, who had returned to the corner. LePiep purred
uneasily and padded over to the opposite corner. "I can fly the ship," Alo
said. "Just in case you're having trouble doing that."
Panglor grimaced, trying not to be distracted. "No," he muttered. "Too
dangerous." It was too dangerous to cross G-G; they were sure to be
watching him. They certainly wouldn't trust him.
Any more than he would trust them.
Trust them? They had promised to let him escape with the ship . . . but
would they really want a live witness escaping? Suppose they didn't.
Suppose they meant for him to be dead afterward. Suppose they had rigged
the Cur—
With what?
Faulty engines?
Faulty computers?
A bomb?

Bomb. The blood drained from his face. He croaked, "Jesus—a bomb."
Of course. The perfect way to guarantee their own safety. Rig the Cur to
blow apart just before it went through the field—
It was obvious.
"Jesus." He sat back in his couch, feeling dizzy. "A fucking bomb," he
whispered. "But where?" The techs were all over the ship.
Alo looked at him strangely. She squinted. She dug a hand down under
her collar to scratch her shoulder. "What are you talking about?" she said
nervously. She got up and strode across the control bay and stared at the
viewscreen with her hands on her hips. Then she turned. "Did you say there
was a bomb on this ship?" she demanded.
He focused with difficulty, cleared his throat, and coughed
convulsively. "Might be," he grunted finally. Now think, think, think.
Where should you look for a bomb?
"Why?" Alo said.
He lowered his eyebrows. "Are you crazy?" he snarled. "What
difference does it make why? If there is, there is, and we've got to find it. It
could be timed, it could be remote, it could be damn near just about any
kind of bomb that there is." Should have been going over the ship instead of
wasting time at the waystation. That was probably why they left the
neutrino aligner loose—to keep him busy. He pressed the knuckles of both
fists to the corners of his forehead.
Suddenly he jumped up. His fingers moved on the console. The
viewscreen flickered and showed the outer hull, down one side. "What are
you doing?" Alo asked.
"Shut up." He crossed his arms and watched the screen, squinting at
every detail; the view switched to another section of the hull, switched
again. "Inspection scan. Through the sensor-fringe," he said abruptly. "Look
for anything that looks like a bomb."
"What's a bomb look like?"
"How the hell do I know?" He knew he sounded scared, and he wished
he didn't. LePiep hopped onto the console, keeping her distance from Alo,
and peered along with them, nervously.
The scan ended. "Nothing," he said angrily. He turned to Alo and
shouted, "Nothing!" He was nearly blind with rage. On the entire hull of the

Cur they had found nothing but dents. He blinked. "There's a bomb on this
ship," he said quietly. "I know there is."
"Probably it's inside," Alo said.
"No kidding. You start down that side, I'll start down this side. Look
everywhere—in every compartment, behind every panel. Jeeez."
Together, they began searching the ship, right down to the cargo hold
and the interhull spaces; most especially, they searched in places that would
normally not be visited. Panglor checked the pile chamber on telescan, and
he went down into the hold and poked about in the spooky, echoing
chambers. Alo joined him there—but everywhere they looked, they found
nothing.
"Why are you so sure there's a bomb?" she asked, her voice
reverberating. "What's going on?" Her tone was impatient, as though she
suspected him of being fruity, or paranoid.
Stepping toward her, he tipped his head back and looked down his
nose. Squash her. Yes, just go ahead and squash her.
Wait—
He had checked the outer hull through the sensor-fringe. Through the
computer. Suppose Garikoff had anticipated him, had rigged the computer,
had loaded it with recorded inspection images?
"Dear God," he breathed. He stamped out of the hold and hurried back
to the bridge. Alo followed. Squinting at the screen, he set the ship into a
slow longitudinal roll. "They wouldn't count on just gunners," he muttered.
"I know they wouldn't." The stars turned in the screen as the ship rolled.
Then he switched to the inspection scan. The image flickered: There was
the hull, and behind it were the stars, stone steady. He chewed a knuckle.
He wasn't used to this kind of thinking. What the hell could he do now? He
worked furiously at the com-console, but couldn't get a real image; Garikoff
had set blocks in the programming. "Damn it!" he screamed, slamming
down his fist.
"They bitched your computer, huh?" said Alo, scratching her cheek.
"That probably means there's something out there."
"Got to go outside and look."
"Wait a minute. Maybe I can clear that for you."
"Sure." He started slowing the ship's roll.

Ignoring his sarcasm, she went on, "I mean it. Normally I wouldn't,
because you're being such a bitch—but my life's on the line, too."
"Forget it," he growled. "I'm going out, and you keep your hands off."
"You go suit up," she said. "I won't hurt anything. I'll get this program
straightened out, and I'll have a search underway before you're even
outside. Take you forever to cover the whole ship yourself." Before he
could move to stop her, she canceled his de-spin program on the console.
He started to protest, but she cut him off. "I still need that spin. Now go."
He gave her a dark look. "Hurt LePiep and I'll kill you," he warned.
Then he hurried down to the airlock. Inside, he stripped off his jumpsuit and
pulled on the mesh silversuit. Leaving the headpiece in the airlock, he
rushed back to the bridge.
Alo had a satisfied look on her face. The screen showed another
inspection scan, but this time the stars were moving with the ship's roll. He
stared open-mouthed for a moment, then thundered, "How did you do that?"
The girl ignored his question. "Look at these," she said, working the
controls. "I'm not sure what they are." The viewscreen split into thirds,
showing three different views, three different protrusions on the hull.
Panglor squinted. "Left one's okay—that's sensor gear. The middle one
—that's probably a bomb, all right. The right one—no. That's the com-
hump."
"I don't mean the hump," Alo said impatiently. "I mean that little thing
behind it." She pointed on the screen to a small shape, which looked like a
shadow on the back edge of the hump.
"That could be a bomb, too. I gotta get out there." He slapped in the
de-spin program and cut off the drivers to kill the acceleration. They would
have to make it up afterward. "When I give the word, you zero the g-field."
"Hurry," she said. He glared at her. "I'll keep looking," she added.
He returned to the airlock and put on his headpiece and hardware pack.
He energized the field in his space-suit, and the skintight mesh turned to
quicksilver. Thirty seconds passed, while the airlock depressurized. "Okay,"
he said. "Zero grav."
"Mmpff," he heard, and then he was floating, weightless. He opened
the outer port and drifted outside. Had he not been so scared, he would have
enjoyed the view: D3, the stars, the galaxy. But he didn't enjoy it. What the

hell did he know about bombs? He'd never even seen one—not unless you
counted mining charges back in the 82 Eri asteroid belt.
He breathed deeply, then aimed himself and jetted slowly back along
the hull, toward the stern. First he stopped over the object he had identified
as a bomb. It was a squarish box obviously attached to the hull recently. It
was also, he discovered after a few minutes of work, simply a cover over a
section of plumbing, probably connected to the modified drivers.
"What'd you find?" That was Alo's voice, loud in his ear.
"This isn't it," he growled. "Have you found anything else?" He pushed
himself away from the box, reoriented himself to the ship and the stars, and
jetted back toward the com-hump. "Well?"
For several minutes, there was no answer. Then: "Puglor."
"Listen, brat, that's not my—"
"Yeah, well, look behind you, on your right. Something in the
shadows, behind that strut."
Muttering, he looked. There was a bracing member that secured the
escape pod to the outer hull; he couldn't see a thing behind it until he shined
a light. Then he saw it—a box. And this one was a bomb. It was a standard
blastex rocksplitter, exactly like the ones used in the asteroids, with a
remote trigger. "Jesus," he whispered. For God's sake now, be calm! How
are you going to be calm with a bomb in front of you? Never mind, just do
it! "Kid—I've gotta disarm this bastard. Don't do anything to mess me up."
He maneuvered himself into position and drew out a unitool. Suddenly he
felt calmer. "Keep looking, though." He reached out with a silvery arm
toward the bomb.
Minutes later, the box was in his hand, just one more disassembled
mechanism. His heart thundered in his ears. The bastards, the devious
fucking bastards. They were going to do this to him.
That clinched one thing. Whatever else he did, he was not carrying out
Garikoff's instructions. "I'll kill the bastards first," he growled. Gripping a
cleat, he hurled the bomb away from the ship with all of his strength. The
box glittered against the black emptiness, then vanished.
He steadied himself from the recoil of his throw, then started making
his way toward the com-hump again. Alo came on, saying, "I don't see
anything else." He ignored her and kept moving. The com-hump was

forward, partway around the curvature of the hull. "Where are you going?"
Alo asked. "Your animal's going crazy in here."
"Touch her and I'll break your neck!" he thundered.
"I won't hurt her," said Alo, annoyed. "Where are you going?"
He squinted, drifting into the ship's shadow; for an instant he could see
nothing. "Where was that thing we saw back behind the com-hump?" he
asked, revolving slowly to peer along the hull.
"What? Oh, to your—wait, I can't see—okay, to your right and forward
about ten meters. Do you think—"
"Just keep searching," he snapped. There it is, there it is—now, what is
it?
He braked, landing. It was a second bomb, mounted at the base of the
hump, like a small mole.
He reached out and quickly began disconnecting the device. He
opened its cover, shaking with rage. The bomb was a timed device,
probably set to go off after his insertion. So they'd meant to kill him,
regardless—no mess, no fuss, no one to talk. The bastards.
The Christin' bastards.
"Another?" asked Alo.
"I'll kill the mothers!" he snarled. Carefully, very carefully, he poked at
the fiber circuitry. Could be booby-trapped, though probably they didn't
imagine he would find it in the first place. It wasn't; and two minutes later
it, like the first bomb, was spinning away into space.
If the sons of bitches thought they'd beat him with gadgetry, they were
wrong.
* * *
"Are you sure the hull's clear?" he asked as he strode into the control
bay. LePiep hurled herself at him, whistling with joy. He caught her,
grunting, and looked around. The room was a disaster; clothes and food
packets and papers had gone everywhere in the zero grav.
"I'm sure," said Alo.
He pulled at his lip and studied the screen. Then he tapped new orders
into the console, putting the ship back under acceleration and instructing the
computer to compensate for the interruption. He had to be on schedule,
later.
"What's this all about?" asked Alo, perching in the copilot's couch.

"Shut up." He was trying to think of a way to avoid Garikoff and still
make his insertion. Now think, think, think.
"Why can't you tell me—"
"Keep your mouth shut!" he roared. "I can still put you out the
airlock." He started tapping furiously at the flight console.
Alo jumped down, glaring.
"Be useful," he snapped. "Scan ahead to the collapsing-field. I want to
know what ships are out there."
"But—"
"Do it!"
"Hrrrrrl!" cried LePiep, upset by the commotion. She burrowed into
the pile of loose clothes. Panglor watched her unhappily, touched by her
frustration; but the flight program was more urgent. His hands shook as he
worked. Alo grumpily worked at the viewscreen controls.
First he modified the breakaway he'd planned from his legal flightpath.
The new plan would not put him on collision course with Deerfield, but
would leave open a window for a last-minute change to a collision course.
G-G's agents could compute; they'd have no way of knowing, until he
passed that window, that he was rebelling. But if he took that window, and
only later changed to give Deerfield a safe berth—that could buy him time,
make time so short that he'd have a fighting chance of making insertion
even if G-G started shooting. Still, there would be the traffic patrol yelling,
and possibly firing . . . and maybe G-G wouldn't be fooled long enough . . .
maybe there was a third bomb, yet undiscovered . . .
But it was the only chance he could think of.
They worked for nearly an hour. Alo looked at him several times,
opening her mouth to speak; but each time she remained silent, giving him
a dark look. Finally, she blurted, "What's the matter? Why am I looking for
these ships?"
"They might start shooting at us," he said.
She digested that, while he kept working. Then she returned to the
scanners. Some time later, she reported, "There are two ships accelerating
toward insertion, one ahead and one behind, both in normal traffic patterns.
Two other ships are on parallel courses ahead, but slower, and not aiming
for insertion. What are they—patrol?"

Panglor picked his teeth, studying his flight projection. "One of them,
maybe. Feed me the figures on all of them." The figures came onto his
board, and he grunted. It was going to be a delicate course to thread.
Going to be a busy time.
* * *
Hours later, he rubbed his eyes, waking. Couldn't remember when he'd
dozed off—but it was just an hour now to insertion. His stomach hurt.
"Want some moke?" he asked in a gravelly voice. Alo eyed him and
nodded.
He turned on the brewer in the galley, then went to the head and
freshened himself. When he came back, the moke was steaming, and he
poured two mugs and carried them to the bridge. "What's going to happen
when we go through?" Alo asked, accepting one of the mugs. She seemed
subdued.
"Find out soon," he said, manipulating the view-screen. Alo had kept a
track on all the ships she'd spotted earlier; that made it easy. He put a high
magnification on Deerfield and found a tiny silver bug swimming through
space. "Mmmmp," he said. His stomach crawled, in presentiment of the
danger ahead. Feeling a wave of fear, he turned and saw LePiep rolled up,
trembling, her eyes wide. "Easy, babe. Easy," he whispered, touching her.
He wished somebody would say the same to him.
Precisely on schedule, The Fighting Cur's drivers kicked up to eight
gees, nearly full power. Panglor swayed and steadied himself against the
vacillation of internal grav, until the field compensated. They were now
boosting out of the legal flightpath toward a near-interception of Deerfield.
Control would start yelling soon.
"Are you going to tell me what's going on?" complained Alo.
"Keep watching that screen and tell me if anyone else changes course."
He glanced up and saw her displaying an uncooperative expression. "Listen
—later you're going to tell me what you're doing here, but right now you're
under the gun with me. So the less trouble you cause, the better your
chances of being alive to talk later. Right?" His stomach still hurt. Having
the girl aboard was even worse than being alone. Concentrate, now.
Alo pinched her nose. "Well, since you were right about the bombs, I
guess maybe . . . "

The Fighting Cur was already hundreds of kilometers closer to
Deerfield, and was closing faster every second. Panglor had to watch the
console closely; the Cur's control system was not quite adequate for
keeping these oversized drivers precisely on the beam, and without his
override, the ship tended to shake from oversteering by the automatic
system. If I were going to send some loser out on a job, he thought,
sweating, I'd at least give him the right machinery.
On the other hand, they knew he was good. They knew, too, that he'd
be panicking if he didn't have to concentrate so hard on flying. He knew
they knew that, and it made him madder still.
"What are those other ships doing?" The sweat began popping faster
on his forehead.
"Not much—wait." Alo fiddled with the screen. "The patrol ship seems
to be doing something—changing orbit." She licked her lips. "Yep. Moving
in."
"Don't sound so happy," he growled.
The com started warbling with an incoming call. Every muscle in his
body tensed; he tried to ignore the sound, but couldn't. "All right," he said.
"Put it on."
A harsh voice roared into the control room, until Alo cut the volume.
"—is Patrol A Seventy-three. State at once reason for departure from flight
plan. You are warned that you are in violation of Traffic Code ten-beta-
fifteen. Police action will commence at once if you do not respond." The
message began repeating.
Then Alo said, "There's another call coming in—on a tight beam from
that other ship."
"Great." The demands of piloting were mounting rapidly; he had to
make a course change in one minute, and he had to hold his present course
right on line. The drivers were running hot but holding stable.
"Balef, we are monitoring your orbit. So far so good. You are within
range of our weapons, and there is a remote charge aboard your ship which
we control on this beam. If you do the job right, we won't have to use the
charge. Keep that in mind, and good luck."
Gee, Panglor thought, watching the computer feeds like mad, funny
they didn't mention that time fuse they had on the other bomb.
"You going to talk?" Alo asked brusquely. "Who are those guys?"

Panglor cleared his throat and snapped several relays. A loud feedback
hum from the com filled the room until he yelled, "Turn the damn thing
off!" She obeyed, and the hum went off. "Goddamn junk they give me," he
complained, turning off several other unnecessary systems. There was a
surge as the drivers changed thrust, and the ship pitched several degrees.
Damn com was probably defective, he fumed. Like Garikoff's soul.
The Cur accelerated on a course now that would take them within a
dozen kilometers of Deerfield, if he made no further changes. But he was
going to make another change. In half a minute, he would swerve to give
Deerfield more room and line up for his own insertion. It would take
everything his drivers had, for a minute and a half.
The collapsing-field was visible in the screen now, a bluish-white dot
glowing fuzzily against space. Deerfield was still a silver bug, but growing.
There was no sign that its crew had heeded them; both ships were
accelerating at converging angles toward the collapsing-field. Two other
slivers moved visibly: Garikoff and the patrol.
Panglor wanted to switch on the com again, but didn't dare; he needed
all his concentration. The next maneuver was coming up now: the ship
lurched and pitched nineteen degrees. They continued to accelerate toward
the field, but started killing some of their sideways vector. Drivers went to
full power, running smooth but hot.
"Give me center view again."
Alo readjusted the screen. "I wish you'd tell me—uh!"
He looked. A bit of light streaked across the screen and flared, more or
less where the Cur would have been but for the course change. He suddenly
had trouble breathing. LePiep jumped into his lap, crying. "Christ!" he
whispered, nudging her aside. He kept his eyes on the controls.
"That came from the patrol ship," Alo murmured. "Hey, maybe you
should talk to them and—"
The viewer went white. Alo fiddled for a moment and produced a
picture again, but a slash of discolored fuzziness cut diagonally across the
view. "Laser cannon," Panglor said, swallowing hard. "Warning shot." He
was surprised that they were good enough to pick off his sensor-fringe that
way. They were good.
Alo switched on the com.
"—last warning. Veer outward—"

The sound broke up, and a static-filled voice came through, on
Garikoff's channel: "You are off course. We are opening fire, and will fire
until you have—"
That broke up, too, but a hull sensor lighted. Hot spot on the hull. A
laser was grazing them, but unsteadily; Garikoff was a poorer shot than the
patrol. Panglor's fingers danced at the console. The drivers began to stutter,
varying in thrust around the correct value. "Kid! Pipe that last message over
to the patrol and tell them we're under fire and have to go through the field."
The Cur shook dangerously from the pulsating thrust; it wasn't built to
accelerate that way. Judging from the hull sensors, though, the maneuver
was succeeding. The computer was varying their acceleration randomly,
and Garikoff couldn't keep a laser on them. Now he worked furiously at the
program, trying to make their final velocity come out right.
"NO!" he roared, hammering on the console. They could no longer
make the angle he needed.
The collapsing-field was growing, and he had lost his track on
Deerfield. "We've lost the window! We've lost D17!" He worked frantically,
thinking. Was there another insertion window they could still hit?
The collapsing-field grew fast, blue and terrible, filling a third of the
screen.
Alo and LePiep were both yelling as he tried desperately to remember
the insertion windows available. There was another, nearly at the same
angle . . . could he make it? Throttling the drivers to full, stable, he pitched
twenty degrees back toward Deerfield's course. They were far enough apart
by now that a collision was impossible, for sure.
The hull sensors flickered. The viewscreen fluttered and went dim, but
not out. The guidance-lock sensors went dead. Garikoff was burning him;
their control system was blind. "Bastards!" he screamed. In a fury, he took
the controls completely on manual.
The collapsing-field filled the screen. Warning lights blinked. Panglor
grunted and held his breath and cut the drivers.
A silver ship slid into view from the upper side and hurtled down off
the screen. It was big. Alo shrieked.
The field blazed, the ship shuddered, and the screen went blank.
Panglor sat shaking, staring dumbly at the screen, a great emptiness in
his chest. Alo was still shrieking. LePiep clung by her claws to the front of

his shirt, trembling.
That was Deerfield they had nearly hit. And an instant later they had
plunged through the collapsing-field—off course—and they were now
coasting between the stars, encapsulated in a flowing cell of stressed,
foreshortened space. They were free of Garikoff, and they had escaped the
D3 system alive. Where they were going, he couldn't say. But he thought he
knew. And he would rather have died.

OceanofPDF.com

Chapter 6
Eventually Alo stopped shrieking.
It was a while longer before the voice in his own head quieted down.
Then he pried LePiep's claws loose from the front of his shirt, and calmed
himself enough to stop gasping; and he squinted at the console, as though in
calm, scholarly curiosity, rather than the crippling anxiety he actually felt.
The computer log produced a record of the preceding minutes, and what he
had actually done in those blind, frantic seconds. The record was
bewildering, especially with the loss of the guidance sensors. He was more
numb than frightened. Almost certainly he had sent them on a no-return
journey into limbo; he just had to confirm it, that was all.
"Where are we going?" asked Alo in a subdued voice.
Panglor grunted. "Don't tell me you're worried, suddenly."
She stared at him. "I'm not scared. I just want to know where we're
going."
"Well, now, if you'd bought a ticket for this trip, I might feel like
telling you. But you know, stowaways don't have the same rights as
passengers." He was muttering words, not even listening to himself. He
needed to babble to calm his nerves, because he couldn't make heads or tails
of the information on the screen. LePiep crooned, nuzzling him.
Limbo.
That was where. That was the answer.
"Anyway," he said, trying to ignore the buzzing in his head, "I'm still
mapping out the course."
Alo crossed her arms impatiently. Panglor went back to figuring. He
knew he had come close to putting the Cur into another foreshortening
window, but he couldn't remember what the destination star was. That he
could check later; what he needed to know now was whether he had hit any
window, because if he hadn't nothing else mattered.
"You don't know, do you?" Alo said.
"I will know. Except our sensors got burned, so there's no way to be
sure. I'm doing inertial right now." The computer could figure it based on

internal measurements of acceleration—assuming that the instruments were
accurate.
"Why were they shooting at us, anyway?"
Panglor felt his temper slip close to the edge. He said nothing, but
replied with a silent expression.
Her face darkened. "We've had it, haven't we?"
He bristled. "Not necessarily. Do you know anything about
foreshortening piloting?" He rolled his eyeballs toward her.
"Some," she said. She shrugged. "Well, I know more straight space
stuff, but foreshortening I know theory and mechanics. I've never actually
piloted it."
Panglor nodded. Maybe she knew something, maybe she didn't. He
returned his gaze to the console and worked for a moment. The program ran
and gave him the answer.
The answer was, if the internals were correct, they were finished. He
had missed the window.
He sagged in despair.
LePiep shoved her face up to his, peering. Waves of reassurance
cascaded from the ou-ralot, washed over him like a soothing rain, like a
mistmassage. He breathed deeply, and found his voice and it was filled with
fighting anger. "There's something you ought to know, and that's that you
don't always have to be exactly on the beam in your insertion. Sometimes
you can be pulled along from one field to that other one lightyears away—
pulled right on into line as if you were on a string."
"Yeah, but—"
"As though there's something in that stressed space, something that we
don't know anything about, that nobody, not even the big brains,
understands—that wants things in foreshortening to move from one point to
the other. Like a big strand of taffy. Hell, we'd probably miss half the time if
there wasn't something like that to keep the trajectories honest."
"Yeah, but you have to be close," Alo objected.
"We are close. We're just a little off." And it was true, nearly enough.
"So. Sometimes ships get pulled off course, and we never see them again,
and sometimes they get drawn in the right way." He looked up at the screen,
a dark blue blank. His heart beat fast again. There was nothing any

instrument could show him about their trajectory. Only the scoopscope
functioned in foreshortening, and that only just prior to emergence.
Alo thought about it for a while and finally said, "What about that
other ship that missed us? It followed us right in."
Panglor stared at her, dumbfounded. He had totally forgotten the
Vikken ship. "Well," he said slowly, "it could be right here with us, actually.
Or right behind us. Even if they were on a diverging course." He rubbed his
temples hard, thinking. Now that was a real possibility, though it involved
some unknowns. It made him nervous as hell. On top of everything else,
they might have Deerfield in transit with them . . .
Alo frowned in puzzlement.
"Field effect," he said. "Two bodies go through a field close enough
together, and they can be entrained in the same foreshortening distortion.
Even if their tracks are different. The lines of space bend to convergence by
the time the field is captured and undistorted."
Alo looked skeptical. She sat in silence for a few moments, then said,
"How about some food?"
"What?" he said, startled. "I don't even know what you're doing here or
why I haven't tossed you out, and here you are, asking—"
"You didn't toss me out because I was helping you," she huffed.
"Anyway, I told you, I brought extra food."
"Huh? Go ahead, then—and bring me something." Her nerviness gave
him the jitters, but he had to admit she had been helpful.
While she was in the galley, he fed LePiep from a packet he found
under his seat, and snapped hot a moke for himself. Alo returned, eating an
enormous flatwrap sandwich. She handed him a smaller one. "What
happens," she said, "if the two ships are flying too far apart, and they don't
converge in the field?"
Panglor stared at her, his mouth halfway around his first bite. He
grunted and chewed slowly. He swallowed and drank from his brewed
moke. "What happens if they don't converge?" He shut his eyes, opened
them again. "Probably they rupture the field, and then it's all over. The field
disappears, and both ships—" He shook his head, unable to complete the
statement.
Alo studied her sandwich. They ate in silence.
* * *

An empty mug toppled from the armrest and clunked to the deck.
Panglor blinked out of a brooding reverie and glanced at Alo. She plucked
at her shirt and returned his glance. He sat upright. "I think it's time for you
to talk," he said. "Who let you on the ship, anyway?"
She rolled her eyes. "Ye gods, no one let me on. I just came." She
smoothed her shirt down, then stretched and sighed.
Panglor remembered the observatory door. "Yeah? What for? You must
have known you'd never get back home."
She snorted. "Home? You kidding? That place was a prison."
"What'd you do wrong?"
"Who said I did anything wrong?" Her eyes flashed. She reached under
her hair to scratch.
"What'd you do wrong?"
Her mouth scowled, but her eyes moved from side to side.
Panglor felt the familiar pressure in his forehead. "What kind of
trouble were you in?"
She jerked her gaze away. "They were going to come after me. I don't
know if they knew yet."
"What?"
"I fixed a girl's shuttle scooter. They had to go out and rescue her. She
had it coming."
"A spacecraft? You sabotaged a spacecraft?"
"Well, why not?" she answered hotly. "It was no big thing. And what
were you doing? Looked like you were pulling something funny back there,
with them shooting at you and you doing crazy maneuvers. What are you
yelling at me—?"
"So you came on my ship?" he demanded.
She stopped talking, mouth open. "Yah," she said. "You seemed
different. I thought it had possibilities. And I couldn't stay there—they'd
have run me in, and the way those people are they'd have put me in
confinement and forgotten about me." She shrugged and turned to face the
lifeless viewscreen.
"Yeah, well, you haven't said why you sabotaged a spacecraft," he said.
"You try something like that on my ship, and I'm going to break both your
arms and both your legs, and after that I'm going to break your neck." He
gripped the arms of his seat, his tendons bulging.

Alo faced the screen silently.
"Well?"
She shrugged. "Well, what?"
Panglor growled to himself and shook his head.
Half an hour later, he told her to go bunk out in the cabin. "We're going
to stand shifts. When you're on, you're going to do nothing with those
controls but watch, and you're going to wake me if anything happens that I
need to be awake for." Alo squinted uncooperatively, but when he reached
for her arm, she yelped and scuttled out of the control bay. "Witch," he
muttered. And he meant it. But he wasn't so sure anymore that she was a
ghost.
Though physically and mentally exhausted, he kept working at the
console. He wanted to find out what star system he had, maybe, flung them
toward. The answer, when it came, made him sweat—and made him check
the library files for confirmation of what he thought he remembered hearing
once, sometime, somewhere. When that answer came back, he stared at it,
trembling so hard that he woke up LePiep with his unhappy feelings, and
she leaped up onto the console and peered questioningly at him.
Dreznelles 1. That was where they were going, if anywhere.
Dreznelles 1. A nearby star, in the same group as D3. It was the site of a
relay way station rather like the one at D3—but with a difference. "It's
empty, Peep," he whispered. "Abandoned. There's no one there. Do you
know what that means?" He gazed into her moist eyes and tried to keep
himself steady. It's okay to shudder, but don't let it go too far, don't let
yourself slide, don't let yourself come apart, don't. LePiep crooned to him—
but what could she do?
The waystation at D1 had been closed down and abandoned half a
century ago, when D3 had taken over its functions. The foreshortening field
generators, if they still existed, were defunct. It did not matter if he had
made the insertion or not, because he might as well have been aiming
straight into limbo.
He shuddered harder. He had done to himself what he had always
feared, and not even LePiep could reassure him now. Thank God the witch
was in the cabin and not here to see this. Jesus! He was making grunting
noises, almost sobbing, and there were tears in his eyes.

LePiep twitched, startled by something. He looked up, eyes blurred,
and saw Alo standing just inside the control bay. No, he thought, no. Jesus
Christ, not her, not now.
"What are you doing here?" he croaked.
"I wasn't tired, and I wanted to find out something."
His voice cracked. "What?" His patience was gone. His world was
gone.
"You sure are upset about something," she said. "Maybe you should go
to sleep."
"What do you want?" he shouted. LePiep flew off the console and
batted about the control room in terror. "Peep!" he cried. "Come here." She
landed, trembling.
"Well," said Alo, "I just wanted to find out where we were going.
Optimistically speaking."
Panglor sank back into silence. LePiep sat with him, radiating misery.
Alo found out what she wanted to know, though. It was right there on
the console screen, and after she read it she blanched, then pursed her lips
and sat with her chin in her hands, staring at LePiep.
* * *
There was only one practical thing they could do, and that was to start
whatever repair work on the ship was possible. Alo proved surprisingly
skilled at working with the technics, and though Panglor would never had
admitted it, he could not have done the work without her. They checked the
hull integrity and adjusted the drive-converters, and then started working on
the guidance sensors. Though it was impossible to go outside the ship while
they were in the foreshortening field, the external sensor probes were
designed to be removed from inside the ship, first into a space between
inner and outer hull sections, and then through a service lock into the repair
section of the power deck. They worked over the probes for some time. The
damage was considerable, but they managed to restore most of the visible
light and radar sections. The guidance computer would still be missing half
its input, but they would not be blind. That was assuming that they would
emerge somewhere, with somewhere else to go—and that they were not in a
tin coffin bound for limbo.
They lunched in silence, until Panglor said, "So what was wrong with
the station? You grew up there, didn't you?"

Alo sat in the corner of the galley, ignoring him while she ate. Finally
she said, "Nothing wrong with the station. Just with the people."
He shrugged.
A few moments later, she added, "Of course I didn't grow up there. I
grew up on Earth. They're too stupid to realize that people from somewhere
else might have something. They're too dumb to know that they're
provincial, closed-minded jerks." Her lunch was disappearing in ferocious
gulps.
Panglor watched her silently. Whatever had happened to her, she
certainly was bitter about it. The point was well taken, of course—people
everywhere were stupid, provincial jerks. But it surprised him that she
recognized the fact.
"Jerks," she repeated, making mincemeat of her weyso-leaf steak. She
stabbed at it with her fork and waved a piece; it flew from the fork to the
deck, and LePiep scampered to gobble it.
"Yah," said Panglor, and he got up and went to the control bay to see if
anything was happening.
It was. The emergence light was on, blue. The foreshortening field was
changing. The light blinked to amber. LePiep whistled.
Panglor yelled, "Hey!" He peered into the scoopscope. "Yeah, here we
go," he said, when Alo came in. He adjusted the scope. "We got the points
starting to converge, here. The field's distorting, all right." The warning
light did not necessarily mean they were emerging successfully; it simply
warned of gross distortions in the foreshortening field.
"Well?" said Alo.
The clusters of dots in the scope danced toward convergence. He
peered, squinted. "Get ready—any second."
He heard the tone and felt the twinge in his gut, and he looked up. The
viewscreen came alive again, dark, with stars. He shifted the view and was
rewarded with the sight of a capture-field shrinking, a dull red glow against
space. "Ho-ho!" he crowed.
Then he stopped, bewildered. "What's that doing here?" And there was
something else, too, a flash of silver—Deerfield. He put a track on it with
the sensor-fringe.
"Of course there's a field here," Alo said. "They left it on so they'd
have a way to get back if they wanted to. Naturally they'd leave a gateway

open."
Panglor was trying to get a scan on Deerfield. He didn't know whether
they would be armed or not, but he was sure they'd be pretty sore. "Where
the devil—" he fumed. "There they are!" He snapped a fix on their position
and velocity for the computer to work on; and he queried, also, for a base
map of this system. The screen showed confirmation that they were, indeed,
in the D1 system.
"The real question now," Alo was saying, "is whether there is a
collapsing-field working. That's not such a sure thing, because they might
have programmed it to shut off, and they figured if they ever came back
they could turn it on themselves when they wanted to leave."
"What the hell are you talking about?" Panglor said irritably. He was
trying to coordinate some readings on the Cur's trajectory, and he was
having trouble making sense of it.
"I was just wondering if we'd be able to get out of this system again,"
said Alo. "We don't want to stay here forever, do we?"
Panglor scowled at her. Then his gaze fell on the viewscreen. "Mother
of God!" he whispered. There was a planet on the screen, and it was no
farther than a few hundred thousand kilometers away. No wonder the
readings had seemed strange. Why would a capture-field be located so close
to a planet?
"That's not right," said Alo.
He turned. "What do you know about it?"
"Quite a lot, actually," she said. "History, you know. Dreznelles 3 was
built to replace the D1 station. They were having troubles here—weird
stuff, superstitious crap—and the capture-field was not located in planetary
orbit."
"It is in planetary orbit!"
"I can see that, yes, thank you, Captain Pangy. But it was not there
before. It was in Trojan orbit, just like at D3. And there was a waystation,
but no planetary colony. Everything was just like D3, only not so big."
He studied her suspiciously. "You seem awfully sure."
"Yes. I am." Sitting back in the mate's seat, she crossed her legs.
"Well, if you know so bloody much, would you please tell me why the
field is here now if it wasn't before, and where the bloody station is, and for
God's sake where the collapsing-field is?" he roared.

Alo shrugged. "I can't tell you all that. We'll just have to find out. But
if there's a field working, we should be able to find it."
"Terrific. Start looking."
She settled at the viewscreen controls. Panglor, meanwhile, went back
to tracking Deerfield and evaluating their position and velocity with respect
to the planet. It was a terrestrial body in terms of size and mass; and it had
an atmosphere, though there were no glaring indications of life in the
spectrum. He instructed the computer to work up a picture of the planet,
based on sensor-scan and library data, for later; right now he was worried
about where he was flying, and where Deerfield was flying.
The com started crackling just then, and after a few seconds he heard a
human voice: "Other ship, other ship, this is Vikken Limited ship Deerfield.
This is Deerfield." The voice repeated the ID several times. Then it said,
"Other ship, what the fucking hell do you think you are doing? Please
fucking respond."
Panglor stared at the com, trembling.
"Aren't you going to answer?" asked Alo. "I was kind of wondering
what you were doing, too."
"This is Deerfield, other ship. We are armed, and we are going to burn
you into little pieces if you don't answer." The voice sounded angry, he
thought. And Panglor was starting to become angry, too. Goddamn Vikken
ship. He'd tried to avoid diverting them; he'd tried to give them a berth. And
what did they do to deserve even that? He should have rammed them, sent
them to real limbo. They were from Vikken. Why the hell had he risked his
life for them?
Suddenly he shouted, "Vikken, this is the goddamn Fighting Cur—
that's who! It was all an accident, you morons—but maybe it was too good
an accident for you! Maybe we should have dumped you into a goddamn
star, but maybe that would have been too good for you, too!" He was
fuming, years of anger boiling up.
Alo opened her mouth in astonishment. Awe filled her eyes—a
combination of terror and admiration.
Panglor glared at the computer readouts. Deerfield was indeed
changing course to intercept the Cur. But their emergence velocities had
been different, reflecting the difference in their insertion velocities and
Deerfield would have to go some to catch them. And if he decelerated the

Cur into a corkscrewing orbit around this planet, they'd have an even
tougher time. Good. He worked at the board; the ship turned over, and the
drivers kicked on full.
He studied what he had done, making sure he had got it right. Then he
sat back, picking his teeth. By God, he wasn't about to apologize to Vikken,
not by a long shot.
"Pingly," said Alo. "What's with them? Do you hate them on general
principle, or for something special?"
He twitched. "Didn't I tell you to look for a collapsing-field to get us
out of here?"
"Yah, I did," she answered, scratching her side. "Didn't find any. But I
found the station, in orbit around the planet. Still don't know why." She
displayed the station's track on the screen.
Panglor nodded grudgingly. Even if she was a witch, she was an
astonishingly good spacehand, too. He would have preferred thinking he
could deep-space her without loss. But she was too good; she was the best
assistant he'd ever had.
"Are you going to tell me what's going on between you and them?" she
asked.
He tapped his teeth. Checking Deerfield's track, he muttered quietly to
himself. The other ship was aiming to intercept, but the Cur had a good
lead. "You haven't told me why you did what you did. All I know is that
you're a juvenile delinquent who stowed away on my ship." He met her
gaze, hard.
"I am not a juvenile—"
"That's not answering the question."
"I asked you first."
"I'm the captain. And I asked you hours ago. Are you afraid to tell
me?"
"Why should I be afraid?" Her eyes burned. She pulled at her
disheveled hair, then shrugged. "You know what it's like to have everyone
thinking you're weird or something, and you know they're the ones who are
weird? Just because I didn't come from there." She stood and talked to the
viewscreen. "They've never been to Earth, and they think they know all
about it, think there's something better about being born in a huge can in a
star system that doesn't even have a decent planet. I think they're jealous.

They never left me alone—always picking at this or that, and when I did
better in training, and when I was a better spacer than they were, they just
did it more."
She turned from the viewscreen and back, and then began to pace. Her
eyes smoldered. "That's when they started in about my parents and how
they were afraid of something, and that's why they were immigrating, and
that's why I was there." Her voice was steel. Panglor swallowed, but she
wasn't finished. "The bloody bitching bastards, talking about people who
aren't even there to defend themselves. They're cowards—they know they
aren't half the people we were."
LePiep crouched nervously, watching Alo, sending out waves of alarm.
For a moment, Alo appeared to soften, and she reached toward the ou-ralot.
LePiep backed away.
"Where are your parents, then?" Immediately he wanted to take it
back; he didn't want to know.
Alo turned toward him, looking right through him, and answered in a
strangely light tone of voice, "They're dead. The stupid bastards killed
them. They let our ship crash at the station, because they couldn't keep the
traffic straight. And still they think they're smarter than anyone in the
universe. I'm glad we don't have to go back." Her eyes were unfocused, and
her lips were set in a childlike, icy smile.
Panglor started to clear his throat, but stopped, afraid to make the
sound. A cry of sympathy was trying to escape from his windpipe, and he
grunted to keep it down. He sat rigid, elbows at his sides. Jittery waves of
fear came from LePiep; it was too much pain coming from too many
directions. But it's just coincidence, he thought. And not even true
coincidence: her parents were killed in a spaceship crash—and that's not
what happened to both his parents. Just his father. And then his mother left
him, but that's no big deal, not in the 82 Eri belt, with community
parentage.
"So," he choked. "They gave you a hard time, and you got them back.
That it?"
Alo's eyes narrowed, and she began to show consciousness of her
surroundings again. "The bitch. Marney. I should have rigged it to kill her—
she didn't deserve to be rescued. Should have put a flag on the wreckage:

'The Earthwoman did it.' What I should have done." She turned and busied
herself with the view-screen, sweeping space.
Panglor, his heart thundering, pumping blood against the backs of his
eyeballs, forced himself to study the planet they were orbiting.
* * *
"So when are you going to tell me?" Alo demanded.
"What?" He glanced up nervously. The silence had been comforting.
They were decelerating smoothly in a loop around the planet. He had been
puzzling over the presence of the foreshortening station in planetary orbit.
Could some alien race, perhaps the mysterious Kili, have come here and
moved it, for their own purposes? And the planet—it didn't correlate with
any of the library data.
"You know frinking well what," Alo said. "Why is someone out to kill
us?"
"They're not out to kill you," he said sardonically.
She snorted. Panglor sighed, finally, and told her about the orders from
Grakoff-Garikoff, and why he had been trapped in such a bind. He
explained, also, about Vikken—how they had fired him for "psychiatric
incompetence."
"They were probably right," Alo said, clucking evaluatingly. "But
they're bastards, and you ought to get them.
Panglor hooked a finger at the scanner-tracking of Deerfield. "Vikken
ship," he said.
Alo thought a moment and nodded.
Panglor, however—spurred by the memory—was feeling greater
hatred at the moment for Grakoff-Garikoff. If he could avenge himself
against them . . .
"What about you?" she said suddenly. "I'll bet people where you lived
didn't like you either."
He blinked, then growled, "You listen here—"
"Isn't that right?" Alo said. "We're just alike."
"No, it's not right," he answered, but his voice betrayed him. What she
had said was true; he had never been liked. There was Lenia Stahl, of
course; and Edor, a boyhood friend, but he'd moved to another part of the
82 Eri belt. But . . . "Well, not like you're trying to say. Of course there are
all those goons you meet in the shipping business, and most spacers aren't

fit company for dogs. But there have been people here and there, in
different places, who—" He stopped.
"Who—?" she prompted.
"What?"
"People who what?"
Panglor shook his head dumbly. He'd said enough.
LePiep hopped across the console at that moment, chasing a ball of
dust. Panglor watched her, then noticed the viewscreen. "Hey!" There was a
ship in the screen. It was Deerfield—too large and too close—and there was
a flickering of laser light on its hull. "How?" Panglor demanded. "They
shouldn't be there!"
Alo stared, mystified.
"How?" screamed Panglor.
A hull sensor hooted. Panglor scrambled and hit the variable thrust
program to dodge the laser. "Get me a new track on that station!" he
commanded. Alo darted to work, and Panglor began blocking out a course
change.
"We can't reach the station this way," Alo reported. "The orbits are all
wrong."
Panglor gargled and shouted, "Our orbit's all wrong! What's happening
here?" His head was starting to swim. Something very strange—was he
losing his sanity? Orbits don't play tricks. "Scan that planet. There must be
something . . . explainable." The planet was twice the size it should have
been on the viewscreen; it was a misty, ochre-and-white ball, much lighter
in hue than he remembered it being earlier.
A blast of static interrupted her answer. "Fighting Cur, this is Captain
Thaddeus Drak of the freighter Deerfield. Cease your evasive actions and
respond on open channel at once."
"Turn that thing off!" Panglor snapped. What, what, what? The
navigational computer was spewing nonsense. He checked the hull sensors;
good, the laser was missing them.
Alo shook her head. "We shouldn't be this close for hours yet."
"Deerfield shouldn't be in range, either. Orbital configuration's all
wrong." Panglor muttered. He looked up. "What are you scanning with?"
"Huh? Radar and dopplering."

"Check angular size and use this for comparison." He punched up the
planet's physical data from the previous sighting and transferred it to Alo's
screen.
"No," she said, a moment later.
"What do you mean, 'no'? Just do it."
"I mean, no, it's not right. That's odd."
"You mean you did the correlation already?"
"Yes, of course." She pulled on her tangled hair. "Something must be
wrong with the instruments. I'd better do it the long way and take star
sightings."
Strange feelings were running up and down inside Panglor. "Why?" he
asked, though he knew the answer. Wouldn't anything stop this thundering
in his ears?
"None of this is making sense," Alo said. "I check our velocity and
distance one way and get one answer, and I check it another way and get
another answer."
"I don't have to listen to this," Panglor warned, startled by the almost
hysterical edge in his own voice.
She looked at him in confusion, and he returned her stare, trembling.
The pressure behind his eyes was terrible, and there was a large constriction
in his throat. He turned to check on Deerfield and was surprised to see that
the Vikken freighter had fallen behind, so much so that it was about to be
eclipsed by the planet's horizon.
The planet's horizon?
"Hey, uh," he started, but stopped when he saw the look in Alo's eyes.
She had seen the planet, too. There was no way this could happen; but the
planet was close enough to swallow them. The horizon was a gently curving
rim of golden brown against black space; a tissue-thin hazing of atmosphere
was visible, as though brushed on as an afterthought.
They were impossibly close. They were in a low orbit—no more than a
few hundred kilometers up.
Panglor made a sound of distress, then deliberately stopped his hand
from shaking. Well, he could deal with impossibilities with the best of
them. He reached out calmly and cut the drive engines. "What's our distance
from the planet's surface?" he demanded.

Flaring her nostrils, Alo said, "Three hundred thirty-two on radar—or
one eighty-seven on laser. Take your pick."
"Wrong." he said. "It's two eighteen from here. You know how to read
those instruments?"
She shot him a corrosive look. He shrugged and said, "Okay, figure me
a periapsis, and when do we hit it?"
That took her a couple of seconds. She bit her nails and said, "A
hundred and three kilometers in seventeen minutes, or—" her voice became
hoarse"—minus three in twelve."
He met her gaze. "I get one seventy-three in thirteen." There was a bad
buzzing in his skull, and his lips felt numb. If her last estimate was right, if
the lowest point in their projected orbit was minus three kilometers . . . then
that meant they were about to . . . crash.
"Christ!" he howled, slamming the console. "Nothing means
anything!" Shaking, he prepared to start the drivers to raise the orbit. But
what sense could he trust? Direction? He couldn't trust anything else; could
he trust backward and forward to mean anything? He kicked the drivers on
again, muttering to himself. The direction and attitude seemed correct.
"Think we'll crash?" asked Alo, squinting. She seemed unafraid,
except for a twitch in her mouth.
The planet grew in the screen. The horizon flattened, and now they
could see the planet's surface crawling beneath them. It looked rocky and
lifeless. But the atmosphere was terrestrial: nitrogen, oxygen, trace gases.
"Give me a readout on the atmosphere," he demanded, keeping his voice
tight.
"You being funny? There's no atmosphere."
Panglor chuckled desperately. "No atmosphere? Okay, we'll—ohh!"
His stomach dropped, and he suddenly began crying, with real tears.
"What?" Alo demanded. "What?"
He pointed. "Auh!" said Alo. The hull sensors showed the nose
heating, rapidly. They were entering the atmosphere that didn't exist, and
they were going to burn up, because the Cur was not an atmospheric craft.
Panglor tilted the nose up and throttled the drivers to full, trying to climb
out. Tears broke from his eyes and ran down his cheeks.
"It's not going to work," Alo said, and she was right—it wasn't
working. The planet continued to grow in the screen, until it was nothing

but a blur of speeding landscape.
"Why?" Panglor was having trouble seeing, because of the goddamn
tears, and because of LePiep climbing his chest again, pushing her
trembling nose against his cheekbone. But he could see well enough to see
every instrument on the console fluctuating wildly. "Ah, hell," he cried, and
reached out to cut the drivers.
The Cur fell, uncontrolled.
Butchered your last mission, he thought, holding LePiep to his breast.
And then the waves of terror and despair that LePiep couldn't hold in any
longer washed over him and obliterated all other thought.

OceanofPDF.com

Chapter 7
"Pangly, what's going on here?" was the first thing he heard. He
brought his eyes back into focus and saw Alo standing, hands on hips,
staring at the viewscreen.
"Don't call me that," he muttered. He held his head in his hands for a
moment, then got up, with some difficulty. Gravity was about one gee,
perhaps a little more. It occurred to him that he ought to be dead; but he was
not—LePiep's confused chirping assured him of that—and he ought to go
see what Alo was looking at.
If he'd thought he was coming unhinged before, now he was sure of it.
The Fighting Cur had landed safely on the surface of the planet—which
was impossible. Ridiculous. He could not remember any sensation whatever
when they had landed. Now, how could that be?
The view in the screen was of an apparently lifeless plain outside the
ship, under a night sky filled with stars. They had been on the dayside when
they had entered the atmosphere. The plain was illuminated by the starlight
and by wispy auroras above the horizon. He massaged his eyebrows; he did
not want to admit that he was bewildered, but LePiep was chittering in
confusion, betraying him. Self-consciously, he switched the screen to a full
sweep around the ship's perimeter.
"Huh?" said Alo.
The view on the other side was quite different. The ship sat at the edge
of a rugged expanse of bluffs and ridges, carved and sculpted rock laid out
like a maze as far as the eye could see. The terrain gleamed as though in
bright moonlight, but there was no moon in the sky. The light appeared to
be coming from the stars, from the auroras toward the north—as indicated
by the nav—and from a faint golden airglow low in the west, over the
ridges. The twisted landscape, glowing in the curved front wall of the
control bay, looked like some incredibly surrealistic work of art. Nothing
moved.
"Do you see anything moving?" Panglor said.
Not answering, Alo squinted and moved one way and then the other,
studying the entire panorama. With her attention focused on the screen, she

stumbled and lurched into Panglor. "Uff!" he grunted, startled. He caught
her by the shoulders and lifted her—then, embarrassed, pushed her out to
arm's length. "All right?" he said, dropping his hands to his sides. His
fingers tingled strangely.
She gave him a puzzled glance. "Yah," she said, and looked back at the
screen. Panglor lifted LePiep from the console. The ou-ralot was crooning
in response to his embarrassment; he shushed her nervously, which seemed
only to confuse her. "There!" Alo said, pointing at the viewscreen.
Something very small—a faintly silvery object of some sort, perhaps a
bird—was moving in the air at a distance of perhaps fifty meters from the
ship. It drifted out from between two outcroppings of rock. Another spot
emerged, trailing the first. They converged, approaching the ship; then a
third appeared from a cleft in a ridge, and the first two sailed into shadow
and did not reappear. The ghostly illumination in the sky seemed to be
failing; but glimmerings of light now shone from among the rocks
themselves—a series of scintillations in the eye, like the light of jewelry.
"Huh," said Alo. LePiep purred appreciatively.
Panglor checked readings. If the instruments could be trusted, the
atmosphere outside would sustain human life. In fact, conditions were not
only adequate, they were like a summer evening in Eden. That made no
sense; but what did? He scratched the stubble on his cheek. "We'll have to
sample with the suit airborne biodetectors."
Alo lit up. "We're going out?"
"Don't be so eager," he said sourly. "You've got the rest of your life to
spend here. Of course, that may not be long. Come on—let's eat, then we'll
go out."
They prepared a meal in silence. When Panglor was halfway through
his leafloaf and brew, Alo tossed her tray into the disposal and announced,
"I'm going now."
"The hell you are!" he roared. But the girl was already out of the galley
and halfway to the airlock. He smacked the counter with his fist, then sat
back with a sigh. To hell with her. She wants to get killed? Let her.
He finished his meal and then went to the airlock. Alo spoke through
the com. "It tests safe. I'm taking off the suit and going out."
"Leave the suit on!"
"There's only one suit," squawked the com. "I'm leaving it for you."

He flushed. "Listen, you," he growled. But he was helpless to do
anything to stop her, and he knew it.
"My name's Alo," she answered. "Not 'you.' "
He cursed and looked in through the airlock window. She had the suit
off and was only half dressed, picking up her clothes. She was slender and
pale, with small hips and breasts, but more mature in body than he had
thought. He jerked his gaze away—to the com—and strained to think of a
reply. He had trouble taking a breath. "I know your name," he said finally.
"Good. See you outside." Before he could think of anything else to say,
the outer hatch light signaled open.
For a moment, he stood dumbfounded. He realized that he was
committed. The airlock was flooded with outside air, and there was no way
to decontaminate it; and he couldn't very well leave her out there alone.
Like it or not, they were in this together. "Peep!" he called. With a
scrambling sound, the ou-ralot popped out of the galley. She trotted down
the passageway and grinned up at him. Suddenly Panglor changed his mind.
"No, you stay here," he murmured. "There might be something out there
that would hurt you even if it doesn't hurt us." Disappointment touched him,
but slowly subsided, leaving loyalty and acceptance. "Right," he said.
Turning, he cycled the lock closed and gave it a flush with ship's air.
Then he entered the lock, sealed the inner door, and checked the readings on
the suit monitors. They registered clear, for what it was worth; Alo had done
the test correctly. Hanging the suit in its locker, he took a breath and opened
the outer hatch. He let out his breath and inhaled again. The air was perfect.
So far.
He stepped outside onto the top of the cargo hull. The ship sat upright
on the plain. The landscape below was spooky but beautiful in the night:
rock features against a pale airglow. He looked for Alo but couldn't see her.
"Where are you?" he called.
"Right here."
He saw only a dark, empty plain. "Where?"
"Here."
He scowled and peered over the edge of the cargo hull. "Right here,"
he heard, in an exasperated tone. "On the ground. Looking right at you."
Her voice seemed to be coming from directly below. He swung himself
around and climbed down, using the service rungs on the side of the cargo

hull. When he dropped to the ground beside the ring-shaped main drive
unit, he looked around. Then he circled a third of the way around the ship,
and found her standing, hands on hips, watching him. Her expression was
quite sober. "You okay?" she asked.
"What are you trying to pull?" he growled. "Why didn't you move to
where I could see you?"
She looked puzzled. "I could see you perfectly," she said, pointing
above him at the ship. He turned. The hatch was in full view, high in the air
at the base of the cabin hull. That was impossible. He had circled a third of
the way around the ship. He scowled.
"Let's look around," Alo said, nudging him.
"All right." They turned and moved away from the ship, over a rise.
The ground was uneven underfoot, and the air was breezy, with a scent of
clay. Many of the rocks along the way shone with a peculiar light, as though
impregnated with a fine powdering of luminous material. They walked past
a shoulder-high ridge, rounded its end, and stopped.
Before them lay a flat, glistening mist. It was a marvelous pool, filled
not with water but with vapor, which convected slowly and glistened white
under the stars, between sparkling banks. Above the vapor, in the air,
floated several . . . creatures.
Fish?
Panglor stared in amazement at half a dozen large, rather sluggish fish,
silvery and blue and green—all of them floating in the air. Several of the
fish turned and stared at him with dark, unblinking eyes. They swam
languorously, moving freely above the vapor-pond; but they seemed
bounded by its banks, as completely as if submerged in liquid water.
Panglor blinked hard.
Several glittering objects appeared at the far side of the pond, drifting
toward the airfish and toward Alo and Panglor. They seemed to float
directionlessly among the fish.
"What's that?" Alo murmured, cocking her head. Panglor turned
questioningly; then he heard it, too. Musical tones rang faintly across the
pond—chimes or small crystalline bells, ringing irregularly, like harbor
buoys. He moved his head, trying to localize the sound. "They're singing,"
Alo said. She pointed at the new objects; and, in fact, the sounds grew
louder and clearer as the objects approached. Their features became visible

in the gloom. They were floating crystalline arrays, with tops that looked
like flowers or fans, and with gnarled stems pointing downward toward the
vapor-pool. Two of them drifted close to the bank. One had a top that
resembled rose quartz, a bladed horizontal dish that vibrated up and down,
producing a beautiful alto tone. The other bore a silvery blue, vertical sail,
which sang in a quavering soprano. One of the fish turned, drawn perhaps
by the music, and glided slowly past the two aerial crystals.
Alo reached out to the rose-quartz crystal, which was now little more
than an arm's length away. The crystal's singing grew louder and strained as
her fingers closed toward it; it trembled with off-key harmonics. "Listen,"
she said, awed.
"Careful," Panglor warned. Alo gave no sign of hearing; she stretched
farther, leaning out over the mist. The crystal wailed. "Wait!" Panglor cried.
Alo's fingertips touched the crystal, and the dish shrieked. Bang! It
exploded. Fragments of pink glass rained onto the bank and into the vapor-
pool. The unadorned, gnarled stem of the crystal slowly tipped and
wobbled, touched the mist, and sank from sight.
Panglor growled in disapproval, until a stinging sensation in his right
hand distracted him. He was bleeding, cut by a shard of crystal. He sucked
on the cut. The other crystals continued to sing, in a disquieting minor key.
"Why did you do that?" he complained. Alo ignored him and surveyed the
wreckage, hands on her hips. She looked dazed. Two airfish hovered
nearby, one of them fat and lumpy, and the other narrow as a barracuda,
with forward-hooking fins on its sides. Their eyes moved somberly, as
though they were assessing these destructive intruders.
Alo made an unhappy sound and said, "Why did it do that? Why did it
die when I looked at it?" She stared vacantly. "I just looked at it."
"You tried to grab it," Panglor corrected her.
"I just looked at it. Look—each one is different. That one's gone now.
There will probably never be another like it."
Indeed, each crystal appeared distinctive. The one with the blue sail
had drifted away, and the others were clustering at the far side of the pond.
There was a channel of some sort leading away, a channel carpeted by mist.
Several of the fish swam that way until they were out of sight.
The landscape was growing darker. The airglow in the sky was waning
and so, too, was the light from the rocks. "Let's go back to the ship,"

Panglor said. He had seen too much to think about already.
Alo nodded, and together they returned the way they had come.
Panglor thought the path looked different on the return, with that ridge on
the left now a little higher, and a huge boulder where he thought there had
been a low spot. He cocked his head, then shrugged.
The ship, at least, was unchanged. Panglor was greeted by waves of
joy from inside. The ou-ralot met him, bounding, as he opened the inner
door. "Hey, Peep!" he cried, with enormous relief.
"Hoolyoop! Hweeloruu!" echoed LePiep, leaping into his arms.
"Right!" he cried, hugging her. "I'm hungry." He turned to Alo. "Let's
see what there is to eat around here."
They were both famished, though it seemed they could hardly have
been outside for more than an hour. Panglor roasted a pan of fish-fingers
and seed muffins, and they attacked the meal ferociously, sitting cross-
legged on the galley deck. Afterward, Panglor brewed a pot of moke.
"That was good," Alo remarked. Then she became somber. "You know,
I really wish that crystal hadn't broken."
"So why'd you grab it, then?"
"I told you. I didn't do anything!"
"I watched you. This isn't doing anything?" He mimicked reaching out.
He noticed with a start that the cut was gone from the back of his hand.
"That's ridiculous," Alo retorted. "I did nothing of the kind. I might
have lifted my hand up, but I didn't reach." She raised her hand, but kept it
close to her breast.
Panglor snorted. "I quite clearly saw your hand go out."
Alo shrugged, shook her head.
"Well," he said. "Well . . . " He brought two mugs of brew and sat
down on the deck again.
Alo yawned, then smacked her lips and blew on her moke. "This is a
strange place, huh?"
He looked away for a moment, toying with his earlobe. For some
reason, he had just remembered how she had looked in the airlock, with
most of her clothes off. LePiep raised her head, purring.
"Where do you think that other ship is, Pangly?" she asked, edging
forward, with her arms clasped around her knees.

He blinked uncomfortably and backed up an inch or two. His gaze
went to his ankles, crossed in front of him. The deck suddenly felt
extremely hard. "Don't know," he said.
"I think they're up there in orbit. They probably have us spotted by
now."
He tensed; LePiep sent a silent wave of concern. Easy now. Don't pay
attention to her. Relax. He tried to relax, concentrating on each muscle,
staring in his toes and working up. But each time he relaxed one muscle and
moved on to the next, the previous one tensed again. "I think," he said, "It's
time we got some sleep."
"Of course, they might not be able to see us."
"We both need sleep," he said.
"They might see an iceberg here."
"What are you talking about?"
"Or a dinosaur."
He stared at her in irritation. "I think," he said, "we had better get some
sleep."
Alo stared right back at him. "Okay." She nudged his toe before rising.
"You can pretend to be mad all you want. But you don't fool me." Then she
hopped to her feet and went off into the cabin, across the passageway. A
moment later she called back, "Are you coming in here with me?"
He stiffened, and saw LePiep arch her back. Getting slowly to his feet,
he said, raising his voice, "I'll be in the control bay." The only trouble, he
realized a moment later, was that the cabin was where the only head on the
ship was located. He weaved with indecision for a minute, then went to the
cabin door. "Hey," he said, knocking.
"Hey, who?" came Alo's voice.
"Who do you think? I have to come in a minute." He made a fist and
opened it.
"So come in."
Cautiously, he opened the door and stepped inside. He flushed hot, but
controlled his emotions carefully. Alo was undressed again, except for
skimpy panties. She was half turned away from him, but she was bent over
the sleep bay, with her rear sticking out and those breasts, not looking quite
so small, hanging down from her chest. He cleared his throat, not quite

knowing what to say. She didn't respond; she was preparing the sleep bay.
"Listen," he said finally.
She stood up and faced him unselfconsciously. "What?" she said.
God—this girl was how old? This nonsense couldn't go on. "Listen—
put something on, will you?" he kept his gaze averted.
"What's the matter?" she taunted. "Afraid of a little girl—a 'juvenile
delinquent,' didn't you call me?" Her eyes sparkled.
He jerked his gaze to stare her full in the face. She grinned; he
trembled. He refused to lower his eyes. "Put . . . something . . . on," he
growled, and then he angled past her and went into the head, and shut the
sliding panel behind him. Jesus Christ, he muttered silently, quaking,
refusing to look into the mirror until he had controlled himself . . . and
refusing to ask himself, Do I really like that kid?
When he was finished in the can and couldn't put it off any longer, he
drew a breath and came out. Alo was sitting in the sleep bay, wearing a
shirt, watching him reproachfully. "All right?" she said coldly, as he edged
by to pull clean clothes out of a compartment on the other side of the cabin.
He faced her from the door. "How old—?" he started; then he cut
himself off and said abruptly, "Good night." He shut the cabin door, went
into the galley and got a beer, and took it to the control room. There he
calmed himself, muttering, sipping his beer, and stroking LePiep. "Not
twelve, that's for sure," he mumbled. "Or fourteen, either."
"Hrruuu," LePiep said, radiating appreciative and soothing feelings,
coming down slowly from a state of excitement. Panglor nodded and
stroked her, glad for the reassuring company. But his heart still beat quickly,
and for the next hour he brooded in silence.
* * *
What woke him was Alo banging things about in the galley. He turned
halfway over in the pilot-couch, aching in every joint, and rubbed his eyes,
wondering where LePiep was. Not in the control bay. So where? He
grumbled and blinked, orienting himself. Turning on the viewscreen, he
inspected a rocky vista, with one gas-pond visible and a few moving spots
that were probably airfish. It was nighttime still, or again. Rats only knew
how long a night was on this planet.
He heard a purring from the passageway. A moment later, LePiep
sailed into the control bay, airborne, flapping her wings furiously. She

landed with a thump on the control panel in front of him, and gazed at him
with pulsing eyes. "Peep. Where have you been, girl?" She hunched her
wings and folded them into place. He was touched by subdued confusion,
and by echoes of warmth.
Alo shuffled in and halted just inside the compartment. She was
dressed in a long pink shirt and gray bunch-cuffed pants. Her manner was
shy—almost contrite. "LePiep was watching me fix breakfast," she said, her
voice trembling slightly. "We talked. We got to be better friends."
"Oh?" he managed. What was this, an apology for last night? He
cleared his throat thoughtfully. He spent a good ten seconds doing that, and
by then Alo had disappeared again.
She was back a minute later, with two mugs. "Do you want coffee?"
she asked. "I found some real coffee in the stores, and thought I'd make
some."
Panglor nodded grudgingly. He did love real coffee and had been
saving it for either celebration or cheering up. It seemed to fit the occasion.
Alo watched anxiously as he blew on it. "Don't stare!" he complained. She
nodded and continued watching him surreptitiously. He sipped and
suppressed a choke. It was gritty and tasted like charred toast. Swallowing
with difficulty, he looked up to see her staring. He made a bold effort to
smile; then his will collapsed. "Oh, hell!" he said, grimacing. "It's awful!
Don't you know how to make coffee?" he worked his tongue, trying to get
rid of the taste.
Her eyes darkened. For an instant he thought she was going to cry. Her
face twisted, she stomped angrily out of the control bay.
"Oh—" he grumbled. He went after her and stopped, amazed, at the
galley entrance. Instead of crying, she was bent over the counter,
concentrating furiously on the outmoded brewer that was part of the Cur's
galley equipment. He quietly poured his coffee into the disposal and then
leaned on the counter. "You figure Deerfield won't see us?" he said. "You
think maybe we'll look like something else to them?"
"Shh!" she said. She frowned at the brewer, tracing the mechanisms
with one finger.
"Look," said Panglor. "That thing is so obsolete you'll never get it
figured out. Especially not if you use logic. I don't even know if it works
right."

Alo didn't look up.
Panglor sighed. He found an instant-pack of moke, added water, and
snapped it hot. He poured it into a clean mug. "Okay. But would you do it
later?" Alo made no reply. He rested the side of his head on his knuckles, in
exasperation. After watching a few moments later he said, "How old are
you?"
That time she looked up—but only for a moment. Then she stared at
the machine again. "Hard to say." She put a finger to her lip thoughtfully.
"I know. How about if you make it easier for me to say, by telling me."
"Well," she said. And she stopped and pursed her lips. "Think I've got
it. The water runs through here, to the roast coffee there, and—"
"Age."
She glanced up. "Well, if you need to know exactly, I can't tell you."
She hesitated, licking her lips. He arched his eyebrows. Finally she said, "It
would be several people's best guess. One of them is mine, but my best
guess is no better than anyone else's."
He turned his palms upward in exasperation.
She peered at the brewer. "Somewhere between seventeen and twenty-
two standard, we figure."
"We figure?"
"Yes, Captain Panglor, Pinglor sir," she said, trembling. "Yes, Captain
Puglor. We figure. Me, Urula, and the meds. Based on tentative adjustments
due to relativism in space travel, time inaccurately recorded in locations of
nonstandard local year, and the hypothetical contents of destroyed
documentation. Also on physiological measurements by the meds—
rendered uncertain by the factors mentioned above—as well as by unknown
environmental exposures to radiation, gravitation, and respiratory and
dietary chemistries."
"But—"
"And based upon my own memories, which are not accurate because
of—because of, b-blocks caused by unresol-unresolved—" She stopped and
focused very hard on some point behind Panglor. "Un—" she started again.
Then she hit the counter. Then her thigh. She grimaced, and got control.
"You can read my report on D3, if it's so important to you," she snapped.
Panglor struggled with an obstruction in his throat. LePiep ran into the
galley and hopped up onto the counter, and looked back and forth between

the two. She rumbled, radiating bewilderment and fear, caught between
them and unable to help. Panglor thought desperately. Say something
useful. "So," he tried, "since you're not sure . . . is that why . . . you were . .
. the way you were . . . last night?"
Alo's head jerked up. Her eyes smoldered with rage.
Wrong. Said it all wrong! "What I mean is—"
"Sure," she said, her voice icy steel. She opened the storage
compartment and took out a wrapped lunch.
"I think—" he stammered.
"No, you don't think," she snapped, and she stormed out of the galley.
"Wait!" he yelled. She didn't stop. She went straight to the airlock and
slammed the port behind her. "Hey!" he shouted. There was no answer. He
dithered in the passageway and finally went back to the galley, furious. The
damn witch—grown woman or not. Neurotic little twit. He'd be better off
without her.
A man can't make a mistake—can't choose his words wrong?
Grabbing his cooling mug of brew, he said, "Come on, Peep," and
stumped back to the control bay. The viewscreen was still on, but there was
no sigh of Alo. He gulped his moke grimly. LePiep radiated alarm, and he
tried to soothe her. Finally he started fiddling with the viewscreen controls.
Might as well find her and see that she stayed out of trouble.
There was no sign of her. Probably she was already in trouble. Well, to
hell with her.
He went and mistshowered hurriedly, put on a clean jumpsuit, and
returned to the bridge with a flatcake and a fresh mug of brew. Immediately
he saw Alo in the screen, walking away from the Cur in the same direction
they had taken earlier. He watched tensely. LePiep perched on the console,
staring at him, wide-eyed and nervous. Alo disappeared behind a limb of
rock. Panglor took a sip and waited for her to emerge. He strained his eyes.
A curious twilight still lay over the land, making visibility uncertain, but he
did not see how she could have moved off in either direction without
crossing his line of sight. Probably hiding, he thought. Sulking. Or looking
at the pond.
LePiep hopped onto his shoulder and began sniffing unhappily at his
hair. "Hey, bud, you figure she'll be all right out there?" he asked, patting
the ou-ralot uneasily. "Sure she will. What could hurt her?"

LePiep muttered, radiating anxiety.
When was that girl going to show up?

OceanofPDF.com

Chapter 8
Setting out in search of her, Panglor picked his way among the
boulders, LePiep on his shoulder. He noted that certain features of the
landscape seemed altered. It was more a feeling than a specific observation,
but the angles and dimensions of the ridges jarred with his memory.
Daylight was approaching. The sky behind the ship glowed with a lemon-
orange light, which somehow imbued the landscape with ghostly
illumination without actually chasing away the darkness.
He intended to return to the gas-pond, figuring that it was probably
what Alo had done. Following essentially the same route they had taken last
night, he looked for the pond—and instead found himself standing on
unfamiliar ground, where he thought the pond should have been. The ridges
behind him were familiar, but the land ahead was not; it was all carved
channels and ravines. An anxious feeling crept through him, and LePiep
murmured nervously in his ear. Frowning, he turned to look back at the
ship, to doublecheck his bearings.
What he saw was an empty plain, beyond the ridges, and in the far
distance a rocky-rimmed horizon—and above the horizon, a pale, yellow
sun. The ship was no longer visible. He stared at the sun with wide eyes.
LePiep grumbled throatily; his own heart-rate surged. Cradling the ou-ralot,
he scrambled up onto one of the ridges for a higher view. The plain was still
empty. No spaceship. He swallowed tightly, controlling his emotions.
LePiep, though, squirmed and whimpered softly. "Easy, babe," he muttered,
unnerved by her waves of fear. He turned carefully, and saw a tumbled and
confusing terrain, glinting here and there with what appeared to be crystals
—or perhaps water—but no signs of the vapor-pool.
Something was dreadfully wrong here.
Taking a deep breath, he yelled: "Heyyyy!"
There was no answer, not even an echo. He squinted. His forehead
buzzed. His heart raced.
He climbed down from the ridge and continued walking in his original
direction, away from where the ship had been. Well . . . where did it say that

things had to make sense? Perhaps the ship would be there when he turned
back. But what about Alo?
Pausing in his tracks, he hazarded another glance back—and was
startled badly. The sun had changed; it was now a smoky disk, rimmed with
fire, giving the appearance of a yellow sun being perfectly eclipsed by a
darkly translucent body. The sun flamed coolly against a dark sky, lighting
the landscape but not the heavens.
Panglor blinked hard and moved on, but he was aware of waves of
increasing anxiety, and for a moment was unsure whether he was radiating
or receiving from LePiep. Or being amplified by LePiep. The ou-ralot
peered to and fro nervously, and looked up into his eyes in fear. She was
worried; but was she worried about Alo? Panglor's insides twisted just a
little as he realized that he was afraid for her. And afraid of being left alone.
Where was that girl?
He yelled again, with more lungpower: "Hey!" As he walked, he called
repeatedly. Finally it occurred to him that Alo probably would not answer to
hey even if she heard him, and he began calling, "Alo! Hey—Alo!" But
there was still no answer.
The terrain gradually changed, becoming even more confusing.
Though the ground seemed level enough, his feet carried him into
deepening ravines among the ridges. He realized that he was in danger of
becoming lost in a labyrinth; and by the time he realized it, he was already
lost. Turning back, he could not even say which of several pathways he had
just stepped out of; none of them looked right to him. The steeply chiseled
walls of all three passages were partially lost in shadow; but the angles of
the shadows were bizarre and contradictory. Sweating, Panglor tried to
decide on a course of action and found that he could not. Nothing he had
done so far had produced a logical consequence.
Where logic failed, then, guesswork would have to take over. Intuition.
"What do you think, Peep?" he said softly, turning to look all around the
tricky landscape, unsure of his directional sense, unsure of what he would
do even if he knew which way he was facing. He was here to find the girl,
but of what use would that be if he was hopelessly lost himself?
"Hwup," murmured LePiep disconsolately.
"Yah," he said, feeling his fear begin to creep out of control. He
shivered involuntarily, and for an instant loosened his hold on the ou-ralot.

A sudden wave of joy flooded him. "Hrruu!" LePiep cried, and as he
started in surprise, she leaped from his arms and scampered across an open
flat. She vanished into shadow at the foot of another ridge.
"Peep!" he screamed in horror and lunged after her. By the time he
reached the spot where she had disappeared, she had scampered on. He
spotted her darting down a narrow ravine, visible for a moment in a beam of
sunlight, then gone. What was she doing? He realized dizzily that the ou-
ralot was running as though to greet someone she knew. Could she have
seen Alo? "Wait, Peep! Come back!" He heard LePiep's whistle echo back
through the convoluted rocks, but she was gone, through the ravine and off
in heaven knew what direction.
Frantic, knowing it was probably no use, he stumbled down the length
of the ravine; when he reached the end he peered about and sagged in
despair. He faced a choice of at least five paths through the labyrinthine
terrain, with no sign of which LePiep had taken. He called the ou-ralot,
called again . . . and finally chose a path at random. Fear weighed heavily
on him as he walked. He tried not to think about aloneness, because when
he thought about it he began to tremble. His companions gone; his ship
gone. Alone and lost.
After a time, he emerged into a large hollow among the intertwining
ridges. The light of the sun fell strangely across the basin; the far side was
in deep, inky shadow. He stared nervously at the area of shadow. It seemed
unnatural: too dark, too absolute. He raised his eyes, and was startled to see
LePiep running across the top of a ridge beyond the shadowy area. He
caught faintly echoing waves of confusion.
Shouting, he dashed across the basin to intercept her. One moment he
was in sunlight, the next in shadow, and then . . . he was somewhere else.
He saw pale light in darkness, gleaming ghostly walls like stone but not
stone. There were too many walls; they intersected and crossed around him,
and he blinked until he realized that he could see through one to another,
and if they were truly walls, he could not see which way it was possible to
walk. Edging sideways, he tripped and fell down a sloping pathway, and
regained his balance as he stumbled out between two quite solid boulders
onto an open ledge. He jerked to a stop, facing a body of water, and shook
his head. What the hell was going on? LePiep . . . where was she? . . . what
was this?

The water before him was turquoise-green, under an invisible sun. Its
surface was wisped with mist, but when he cocked his head he caught a
glimpse into the depths. He was standing at the edge of what appeared to be
a small inlet on a large bay; but the horizon was blocked by low-lying
clouds, and it was impossible to see far from shore.
"This is crazy," he muttered, other thoughts driven momentarily from
his mind. The sight before him was compellingly, stunningly beautiful. He
stepped to the edge of the bank. He looked into the water and up into the
sky, which was blue—the first blue sky he had seen on this world—and
gazed along the shore. A breeze stirred the mist, but nothing else moved.
This planet was playing tricks on him, and doing a damn good job of
it. "Well, why not?" he muttered, rubbing his chin. "Every other goddamn
thing is crazy." Strangely, he felt sure that what he was seeing was really
there; he did not think he was hallucinating, or suffering illusions. Which
was, itself, crazy. An intuition.
He cocked his head and peered again into the water. Had he seen
something moving? The surface shined and danced with mirrors for several
moments, then cleared suddenly. He found himself staring down through
many meters of water to the shadowy seafloor. What he saw made his face
twitch. Sitting upright on the bottom, its image shimmering with the
distortion of the water, was a spaceship, all silver and shadow. It was The
Fighting Cur. It looked rather like a large toy in the misty gloom,
suggesting that the water was far deeper than he had thought. He stood
dumbly, his stomach kinking like twisted rope. The Cur, sunk? He'd been
wrong, then; he was hallucinating.
But no. He couldn't believe that.
Several tiny-looking fish moved in the gloomy depths, and he watched
them maneuver around the structure of the ship. The Cur really was there,
on the seafloor. But how? He felt his chest and arm muscles lock against
one another with tension; he felt sweat form on his forehead. Okay, he
thought grimly, as though someone might be listening—sink my ship. Take
my friends. Go ahead and do what you want.
He blinked. The water rippled, and the angle of visibility changed. He
saw something else on the bottom—another spaceship, not the Cur. And not
Deerfield. A wrecked ship, broken in half, its insides exposed to the green
depths. Panglor trembled, feeling excited and confused and more fearful

than ever. Other people had crashed here, then. This planet had already
taken lives.
He wrenched his gaze from the water and looked around frantically.
His heart pounded. "LePiep!" he bawled. "Alo!" His voice rang out across
the water and returned. The echoes died.
Grimly he turned to his left—and saw Alo.
Some distance off, a natural stone bridge arched out over the water,
extending from the bank at an impossibly shallow angle and then curving
back to the same bank. What supported its weight, Panglor couldn't
imagine. But at its outermost point, Alo stood looking across the water. She
seemed not to have noticed him. He shouted at the top of his lungs: "Alo!
Over here!" His heart beat mercilessly as he skirted along the bank, looking
for a clear path to the bridge. Alo, meanwhile, turned and began walking
away from him, toward the far end of the bridge. She gave no sign of
having heard his shout.
Panglor broke into a headlong dash to catch her. Several massive
obstacles of stone forced him to jog inland from the bank; he ran in and out
among rocks and ledges and gullies, trying to keep close to the water. He
jumped up onto an elevated slab to search anxiously for Alo—and he
clenched his fists in excitement. Alo was walking toward him on the bridge,
and trotting at her feet was LePiep. Panglor yelled joyfully.
Alo still showed no reaction. But he caught a wave of emotion from
LePiep—satisfaction, determination. (Why couldn't they hear him? It didn't
matter; they would soon be reunited.) He leaped down and dashed the final
fifty meters. Rounding a precariously balanced boulder, he trotted out onto
the foot of the curious stone bridge. And cursed miserably.
The bridge was empty. The full sky covered it like a luminous bowl,
and the water below glowed emerald. But Alo and LePiep were gone. He
shouted. He ran out to the extremity of the bridge's curved midsection. He
called and turned in every direction—to no avail. There was no sign that
either the girl or the ou-ralot had ever stood here.
God no, he thought, and then all of his thoughts were lost in a rush of
dizziness. Numbly, he walked the entire arch of the stone bridge, looking
forward, looking down, staring at the mistily mirrored water. Sighing
leadenly, he turned and walked back along the bridge, scanning the shore
with half-focused eyes.

He sat down, letting his feet hang over the water, and gazed into the
depths. He saw shadows and slanting rays of light, but no spaceships. Only
deepening color, hinting at the hidden seafloor. Despair and bewilderment
were all bound up in his chest, and he found it impossible to think in a
linear fashion.
The sky overhead took on a warmer hue, with a blazing white sun in
the center of a growing orange aura.
Clearing his throat, and blinking at tears that were not quite yet in his
eyes, he struggled to get to his feet. A wave of hysterical desperation
washed over him, almost knocking him back down. It was an instant before
he recognized that the emotion was not coming from him, but from LePiep.
He gasped weakly, turning.
The ou-ralot was running along the bridge, whistling mournfully and
radiating waves of lonely desperation. "Peep!" he cried hoarsely. The ou-
ralot sped up, scampering toward him. Waves of hope cascaded from her.
She approached—leaped. "Here, babe!" he called with a stunning rush of
happiness, and reached to catch her.
And she leaped past him as if he were not there, as if he were a ghost.
He whirled in dismay to catch her, to grab her.
And she was gone.
Panglor's knees trembled, his eyesight wavered, his lungs had trouble
holding air. His mind reeled drunkenly; thoughts and emotions fired like a
thousand sparks, sputtering and short-circuiting his nervous system.
"Peep!" he wailed. He began to sway, began to lose his balance. He swayed
backward, forward, backward . . . and then tumbling, toward the sea.
The water never touched him. Sunlight whirled around him like an
enormous wheel, and then it went out, and he was submerged in blackness.
That lasted for several heartbeats, and then into the blackness came a
reddish glow that at first only brushed at his senses, then slowly grew
stronger. There were sounds, as of rushing water, rushing air, rushing
particles . . . He felt that he was still tumbling, twirling slowly, and he
perceived that he was falling into a vast, crimson-glowing halo in the
darkness. He was frightened and dazed, and for a terrifying moment he
thought that he was finished and that this was the limbo he had always
feared. And then he heard voices.
Voices?

Yes—at least three separate voices echoed faintly around him. Each
one came from a different quarter; none sounded human. One was high and
whiny; another was thick as gravel and faint as a whisper; the third was a
thrumming of strings. And now there was a fourth . . . and it was . . .
LePiep.
He tried to localize LePiep's whistle, but a sudden cacophony of winds
and voices assaulted his ears, confusing him. He strained dizzily to
recapture LePiep's voice, but it was lost in the darkness. He was still falling,
falling endlessly toward the cozy gloom of a fire-lighted cavern, which he
could never quite reach. He felt a rush of curiosity . . . and he squinted to
peer around in this strange nonplace, and what he saw was LePiep looking
up at a strange, gangling creature dressed in a robe. It was LePiep's
curiosity that he felt.
Frustration exploded in his mind. He tried to reach out to her, to move
toward her, to do something, but all that he could manage was to struggle
futilely against an unyielding emptiness. He was invisible to LePiep and
this other creature. He shouted for their attention, and when that failed,
screamed. His vision of the two darkened, and he cried and pounded his
fists in fury.
And suddenly he fell silent. Awestruck, he quit worrying for a moment
about LePiep, or about himself. Clarity came to his thoughts. None of this
made sense, at least not as he usually thought of it. But did that matter? No.
What mattered was that certain things were happening; and whether he
understood them or not, whether it was the planet playing tricks on him or
someone else playing tricks, it would do no good to yell and become frantic
—because look how much good that had done him so far.
So. He should keep watch and be ready to move when the tricks turned
his way. Maybe he would awaken, and things would be different.
But in the meantime, he should accept.
Strangely, he found that not so hard to do—to remain calm, open, and
understanding. But his head felt large and a little spacey, and he felt a
heightened sense of geometry, of perspective, though visually there was
little for him to see. LePiep and the other were gone; there was a reddish
haze in the darkness, and a sensation of walls surrounding him, and then a
pale outline in scarlet light. He walked, and after a time the outline resolved
itself into a cave opening, and he passed through and found himself
standing on high, solid ground, staring across a curiously jumbled-looking

garden under a lemon-lime sky. See? he thought dazedly—you just be
patient and everything works out. He set out along a narrow path leading
down into the garden.
What he found was even more unusual than he expected. The "garden"
was set in a basinlike formation, and it consisted of oddly shaped and
textured shrubs that looked very much like carved stone. Approaching, he
saw that the tallest were chin high, and the shortest, knee high. They looked
rather like enormous mushrooms, carved out of stone by waters or winds of
vanished ages. Each was distinctive, and most were so thoroughly and
delicately chiseled that they seemed to have actual branches and leaves that
bobbed and twisted as he passed. Frowning, he brushed one of the larger
shrubs with his fingertips. A branch almost imperceptibly tilted to meet his
touch. It was greenish-brown stone to his eye, but to his fingertips it felt
cool, moist, and resilient. For an instant, he swore that it was whispering to
him. "Rock-plants, huh?" he muttered. He shook his head and moved on.
The rock-plants quivered as he passed, responding to his presence with
gentle, rippling movements.
The garden was large, and the path wound through it with many twists
and turns. The air was sweet and the sun bright, and despite his concern
about his companions and his ship, Panglor gradually relaxed. If one could
summon forth such peaceful surroundings, perhaps it was worth a certain
amount of bewilderment. Farther ahead, the path hooked sharply to the
right, around a queer twin-peaked muffin of a bush, and he followed it,
sighing.
He stopped. The blood drained from his face. The next bush was a
smooth-capped polyp a meter high. Stretched out across the top, limp and
still, was LePiep. Her wings were partially unfolded, her eyes open but
vacant. She did not stir at his presence. For a moment Panglor could not
move, could not speak, could not breathe . . . could not tell if she was alive
or dead. She was so still, so limp, he could not see even the tiny undulation
of her breath.
The paralysis left him and he choked and moved forward, fighting
anger and tears. She was dead—he had lost his only friend. On his third
step, as though he had passed an invisible barrier, he met a wave of misery,
of despair.
His heart trembled with uncertainty—then soared. "Peep!" he cried and
rushed forward.

LePiep lifted her head listlessly, radiating a new wave of despair.
Suddenly Panglor understood. She had given him up for lost and lain down
in surrender, to die—just as once before, on Areax V, he had found her near
death from loneliness, after her escape and flight from the pet dealer who
had owned her.
Panglor halted beside the stone bush and reached for the ou-ralot. His
hand passed through her, as through a mirage. LePiep looked about in
confusion, glancing directly at him, but though she obviously sensed
something, still she did not see him. His heart pounding, Panglor edged
sideways around the rock-plant and LePiep. Suddenly she scrambled to her
feet, radiating recognition and tormented excitement. Panglor circled farther
around.
"Hiiieee! Hyolll!" she shrieked, spotting him. She sprang at him with
such force that she knocked him backward into the next plant. "Hruuuuu!"
she cried, squirming in his arms with anguished pleasure. Joy and love
flooded Panglor's heart, shimmering back and forth between the two, like a
small sun.
"Peep . . . babe . . . Peep . . . " he mumbled, hugging her desperately.
The ou-ralot clung to him, quaking with exhaustion. He stroked her over
and over, soothing her, calming his own ragged nerves. Eventually they
settled down and regarded each other silently, gratefully. They were both
exhausted, but they would make it—together. "Never let you go again,
babe," Panglor muttered, and LePiep warbled in reply. Cradling her
carefully in his arms, Panglor set off again along the path. The change in his
heart was enormous—the warmth, the renewed care, the hope for the future.
Concern for Alo.
Alo! And where was the ship?
"Kroool," said LePiep soberly, reflecting his feelings, even as he cut
off the thoughts to keep them from muddying his mind. LePiep emoted
hopeful worry. He scratched her head and walked silently on through the
rock-garden.
On the far side of the basin the path angled upward into torturously
ridged terrain. The path remained visible through the desolation, though,
and Panglor shrugged and followed it. For perhaps an hour he trudged up
one ridge and down another, muttering to LePiep, sometimes enjoying a
wide view of the land of carved rock, and sometimes having no view at all
except looming stone walls.

From the peak of a ridge he spotted—far to one side, half buried in a
gully—something that glittered and that appeared to be the wreckage of an
unfamiliar spacecraft. He continued along the trail, hoping to get a better
view from further on, but he did not see it again. LePiep clucked as he
considered the puzzle, walking on. Could it have been a human ship?
Deerfield? He thought not; it had appeared too odd. Further on, he
encountered pieces of actual hardware scattered along the path. He noted a
guidance vernier, an acceleration recorder (of different vintage from the
vernier), and a sensor scope of entirely unfamiliar design. He inspected
each object closely and slipped one of the pieces, a small valve, into his
pocket. Then he moved on, wondering, Is this some elaborate hoax?
The next object he encountered startled him somewhat more; it was an
upright canister, with odd plumbing attachments on its sides, perched atop a
rock. It was the coffee brewer from The Fighting Cur's galley. Panglor
stared at it without comprehension, but with carefully restrained emotion. It
hardly seemed likely that anyone had dismantled the Cur in his absence, so
. . . just accept, Balef . . . nothing was beyond belief now, though a great
deal remained beyond understanding.
He thought of Alo. Where did she fit into all this? And what was she
doing?
LePiep became agitated and fretful when he thought of Alo. He
stroked the ou-ralot between the wings, calming her, and kept moving. Fifty
meters further on, he rounded a bluff. The Fighting Cur stood just beyond a
promontory of rock, bold against the sky. "I'll be damned," he whispered.
Then he saw Alo. The girl was pacing to and fro atop the promontory.
"There she is. Peep!" he hissed, feeling a rush of confused emotions, some
of them more than a little scary. But damn, it was good to see that girl—his
passenger, his crew.
The ou-ralot peered up at him, reflecting his joy and adding
puzzlement. Didn't she see Alo?
As they drew closer to the Cur, Panglor saw that the promontory was
not just an oddity of the landscape; it was a long incline, a ramp that ended
precisely flush with the top of the ship's cargo hull, near the hatch. Someone
—the planet?—had built them a gangway.
Panglor hurried up the ramp with LePiep. Now where had Alo gotten
to? He called . . . no answer. He entered the ship. She wasn't inside either;

but everything else looked normal enough—including the brewer, which
was in its usual place in the galley. "Okay, buddy," he said to LePiep, after
searching the ship. "Let's go look outside—but you're staying with me, you
hear?" His anxiety was rising again. If strange things were going to keep
happening, he wanted above all not to lose LePiep again.
From the cargo hull, he gazed in all directions. The terrain appeared
much as it had originally, except for the promontory and the fact that the
sun, pale green now, was in the sky. He yelled, but got no answer. Time
passed. LePiep remained quiet, attentive at first, and then dozing in his lap.
A cluster of pastel-orange clouds moved across the sky.
Yawning, LePiep raised her head and peered about. Panglor stroked
her unhappily, keeping a watchful eye around him. Suddenly the ou-ralot
hooted, jumped up joyfully, and bounded out of his lap. "LePiep!" he
bellowed. "No!" She was already halfway down the promontory. He started
running, but was already left far behind.
LePiep streaked to the foot of the promontory and darted behind a
massive boulder. Panglor stopped, gasping, hoping she would appear on the
other side. She did not. "Peep!" he cried in anguish, smacking his fist into
his open hand. Agonized moments went by.
"Hoop . . . hoop . . . " he heard distantly.
"LePiep!" he yelled.
Alo appeared from behind the boulder—carrying LePiep. Panting,
Panglor ran to meet them. "There you are!" Alo cried. She was trudging
wearily, and she looked angry. Her eyes were puffy, as though she had been
crying. LePiep whistled tentatively, blinking back and forth between the
two, radiating a hopeful warmth. "Where have you been?" Alo snapped.
Panglor stared at her in astonishment. "Looking for you!" he roared.
"I've been looking all over this goddamn planet for you!" With an effort, he
caught his breath and looked at Alo appraisingly. She was disheveled, and
obviously tired, but appeared unharmed. "You okay?" he asked gruffly. He
hated to admit it, but she really was a welcome sight.
"I'm all right," she said irritably. "Here—so's LePiep. You want to take
her? I've been carrying her for a couple of hours." She hoisted the ou-ralot
into Panglor's arms and continued plodding up the promontory toward the
ship.

"Couple of hours?" Panglor said, keeping pace. "You couldn't have had
her for a couple of hours. She was here with me, and she just ran off a
minute ago to meet you—she spotted you before I did."
Alo snorted, not meeting his eyes. As they stepped onto the cargo hull,
she said reproachfully, "You were gone all night. I've been back here twice,
and I waited for you all night. When you didn't come back, I went looking.
Found LePiep near a big vapor-pool, like the one we saw before—she was
all upset—and I came back with her. But I had trouble finding my way."
Panglor stared at her, squinting. "This is a very strange place, Captain
Puglor," she said. Panglor nodded and looked around. The sun was moving,
edging along the horizon. How was anyone supposed to measure a day here
—or anything else, for that matter?
Alo entered the ship and he followed. Only after sealing the hatch did
he let LePiep down again. He was ravenous. "Want to eat?" he said. He
opened a food compartment in the galley and blinked. "You took enough
food."
"You were gone a long time!" Alo retorted hotly. She really was angry
and he couldn't understand why.
"I told you—I was looking for you. I got lost myself, and so did
LePiep. I saw the two of you together—long time ago, before I found
LePiep—near some big ocean. But you didn't hear me when I called."
Alo frowned at him, her forehead wrinkling. She shook her head in
disagreement, in bewilderment. Their eyes met.
"Gah!" Panglor said abruptly. He dug into his food, and when he had
finished eating, he leaned back against the counter. Alo regarded him
carefully and made herself a mug of brew. Panglor puckered his lips
thoughtfully and made his own mug of brew.
LePiep, curled up on the counter, watched them both with sleepy eyes
and reflected mingled feelings of wounded pride, bewilderment, and
puzzled hope.
* * *
Once they had gone over both of their stories, it was clear that they
were hopelessly inconsistent. Alo's time sense of their separation was far
different from Panglor's, and although she reported spending a good deal of
time near a gas-pond, watching the singing aerial crystals, she insisted that
she had never seen any body of water. And the only time she had seen

LePiep was just before her final return to the ship. She had been at the gas-
pond then.
Panglor recalled his near-misses with LePiep—the times he had seen
her at a distance, emoting joy or distress for no obvious reasons, and the
way she had lain in utter despair atop the rock-plant, not seeing him until he
was at just the correct angle. Strange images. But some of them tied
together, if you didn't mind a few distortions of reality. He could almost
discern a kind of logic to what was happening. "I think I see what we've got
here." He hoisted LePiep up to gaze at her eyeball to eyeball. The ou-ralot
hummed warmly. She made him feel confident; she even almost made him
feel warmly toward Alo.
"Sure," Alo said sardonically. "Everything's clear."
"Sure, it's clear," he said. He lowered the ou-ralot and studied Alo
thoughtfully. "What we've got here is a kind of system of mirages. You see
from one direction, and I see from another—and we don't see the same
things at all. I see you, standing by some lake or ocean, and you say you
were somewhere else at the time, and anyway you never saw water, you
only saw the gas-pond. LePiep is lost, looking for me, and she runs right by
me, looking overjoyed. The ship—the ship, for chrissakes, vanishes when
we turn our backs on it."
"Wait a minute—"
"Wait what—can't you see it?" he said impatiently. "That's it, it's got to
be! Something is distorting time and space—like a continuous mirage, only
instead of bending light it bends all of reality." He closed his eyes and
envisioned an enormously complex system of refractions, twists in reality,
convolutions in the structure of space itself, perhaps. What a thought—but
why not? If manmade foreshortening generators could stress space in a
single dimension, couldn't natural forces create even stranger and more
complex effects?
"Pangly, maybe we hallucinated—"
"Nah," he said, shaking his head. He knew he had seen what he had
described. Besides . . .
He remembered something and groped in his pocket. His fingers found
a small metal object, and he pulled it out for Alo to see. She squinted.
"Valve component from a spaceship," he said. "I picked it up near the place
where I saw the brewer."

Alo examined it skeptically, turning it over in her hand; but her eyes
were wide. She jumped up, went into the control cabin, and returned a
moment later with a sparkling violet crystal the size of an orange. "I picked
that off a bush," she said. "No mirage."
Panglor studied it, thinking. "True, mirages can't account for all of it,"
he admitted. "But assuming that there are real objects here—like this, and
like us—what's happening among us all is being affected by—by—"
He stopped to scratch his head. "Okay. Look. It's nothing to get upset
about—it's just that the physical laws have been discontinued here, at least
the laws as we know them."
"Revoked, huh?"
"Well, suspended, anyway. Remember the way we landed? And did
you see that sun?"
"Ho! Red, with yellow stripes," Alo said. "It was kind of nice."
Panglor was startled for a moment, not remembering any striped sun,
but he shrugged. "Right. But the question is, can we get out of this place?"
"Mmmm," said Alo thoughtfully. Suddenly, catching Panglor by
surprise, she crossed over to him, hooked an arm around his neck, and
kissed him on the mouth. Then she jumped back, grinning.
Panglor grunted, dazed. His mind fogged, cleared, and fogged again.
Why had she done that; why was she grinning like that? And why was
LePiep up and prancing on the countertop, whistling and emoting happy
thrills? What the hell was going on? He felt his face glowing red.
"Pangly," said Alo. "Let's go out and see if the sun is setting yet. I saw
a terrific sunset last night."
He blinked as though seeing her for the first time, and opened his
mouth. Alo turned to go to the airlock before he could think of anything to
say, so he cleared his throat and followed. LePiep yelped; he turned to catch
her. Then, with Alo, he went outside.
The sun appeared to be coming up over the horizon. "Nuts," Alo said.
The sun was pale yellow again, and the sky surrounding it was pitch-black,
with a sprinkling of stars. "Hey, look at that," she said, pointing out over the
plain. What had been vast desolation was now grassland, rolling lazily into
the distance. Panglor looked on the other side, to the tumbled land. There,
too, life had sprung into being—grasses and shrubs and small trees inlaying

and changing the entire visual character of the terrain. The air was scented
with chlorophyll.
Panglor breathed deeply and stood silent a minute, letting the sight
saturate his senses. He turned back toward the plain. "Uh-oh," he said.
"Look at that."
Half a kilometer out on the plain, a silver spaceship was materializing,
like a ghost ship appearing out of the ether. It was the Deerfield.

OceanofPDF.com

Chapter 9
"Um," said Alo, moving closer to him. "That's them, huh? They're
gonna be awfully mad."
"More than just mad, I think," he said, shading his eyes and squinting.
Deerfield lay on its side, a giant silver cylinder gleaming in the sun. A dark
spot appeared as a hatch was opened, and a man came out. He went back in,
and soon half a dozen men spilled out. They milled around, agitated, and
several of them pointed in the direction of The Fighting Cur. "Something
else I think," Panglor said, "is that they're going to get here in about two
minutes, and we'd better get the hell out of here before they do." He glanced
at Alo, expecting to see fear. But she set her face determinedly and nodded.
"Better play for time, until we can get an advantage," she said. "Wait a
sec." She dashed into the ship. A minute later she came running out, with a
totebag. "Food," she said, breathing hard. "Might get hungry."
Panglor gave her a look of admiration. Then they ran down the ramp
and into the rocky maze.
"Slow—down—" he gasped, after trotting for several minutes.
She fell back as he caught his breath. "I think they'll have trouble
following us," she said, grabbing for his hand. That felt strange to him, and
apparently it showed, because she let go of his hand and snagged a tool loop
at the waist of his tunic. "Just keeping us together," she said cheerfully.
The greenery that crowned the twisty path made the situation seem
somehow less desperate—unthinkable that men could follow this way with
assault or murder in mind. Panglor, in fact, believed they were safe as long
as they kept moving. He did not feel so safe about where they were going. A
course straight away from the ship might bring them right back to it, as far
as he knew, but right now the terrain ahead looked deep and labyrinthine.
Perhaps he should worry more about finding their way back when they
wanted to return.
Alo hummed as they walked. He glanced sideways at her and
wondered at the change in her personality. "I think the planet's letting us get
away with this," Alo murmured, looking around contentedly. They were

skirting a pond of real water with several airfish gliding over it. The sun
was zigzagging its way to the zenith.
"Could be," he agreed, feeling mellow. "What's the matter, Peep?" The
ou-ralot was squirming in his arms.
"Hyol-hoop," said LePiep, and she leaped from his grasp and ran along
the bank, radiating excitement.
"Hey! Damn—LePiep!"
Alo touched his arm reassuringly. "It's okay, I think. She won't stray.
She knows."
Panglor clenched his hands nervously. "Stay close," he called
unhappily.
LePiep looked back, ruffling her furry wings. "Hyoop!" she cried
agreeably. Then she turned and marched forward, leading the way. Alo
chuckled and clenched the bottom of Panglor's tunic.
* * *
They halted, facing a low escarpment. The easiest-looking path was to
the right, along the base of the escarpment. But the ou-ralot, heedless,
scampered directly up the cracked and layered face. "LePiep—don't!" But
the command was in vain. The ou-ralot went straight to the top, and there
was nothing to do but follow her up. They made the climb cautiously, and
from the top they followed level ground for a distance. The path ended at a
low drop-off.
"Pangly!" cried Alo. Before them was a wide, shallow basin. Along the
right was tumbled landscape, and to the left was a glinting vapor-lagoon.
On the lagoon's banks rested a grounded spaceship—a huge, rhomboidal
oblong, greatly enlarged at both ends. Its hull was emerald silver in color.
One end of the ship was partially submerged in the pond.
"Is it alien?" Alo said, awed.
"Jeez." Panglor scratched his head. "Looks like it." He saw no sign of
life. No reason to expect to. The ship looked as though it had made a hard
landing; the hull had buckled and split on the underside. There was no
telling if its inhabitants had survived—and no telling how long the wreck
had lain there. "No one home, looks like, but we'd better be careful
anyhow."
"There goes LePiep," Alo cried, grabbing his arm. The ou-ralot
capered down the slope toward the lagoon and the wrecked spaceship.

Panglor leaped after her, scrambling on rocky footing. LePiep looked
back, grinning, and with a toss of her head ran on.
The dash ended abruptly at the foot of the slope. LePiep was poised by
the lagoon, sticking her nose out, and within moments several large airfish
drifted into sight and came over to regard her silently. She poked and
sniffed, not quite touching noses with them, and then she peered up at
Panglor in satisfaction. "Okay?" he said, bending to scoop her up, carefully,
so that she could still face the airfish.
"Hrruuu."
The fish departed, moving their fins gently. "Lots of them over there,"
Alo said, pointing toward the ship. At least a dozen or more of the airfish
hovered near the submerged end of the craft, and they were not the only sort
of creature present. Someone or something resembling a man separated
from the cluster of airfish.
"What's this?" said Alo.
Panglor made no immediate reply. He recognized the creature as the
one he had glimpsed with LePiep, when she was lost. From a distance it
looked like a man, but he soon realized that, although it was humanoid in
appearance, the creature was no human. Perhaps this was the owner of the
spaceship. The alien walked toward them—or perhaps floated; its
movements were exceedingly graceful, and its robe nearly brushed the
ground, so that its feet were invisible—and met them along the lagoon's
bank.
The being was as tall as a man, thin and spry, with facial features
resembling a man's, though sharper. Its nose was a beaklike affair, and its
square-pupiled eyes peered out from beneath large-boned brows. The alien
bent right, from the waist, and then left, in a swishing movement—as
though bowing, side to side.
"Hwell-wee-trwullyoo-k-k-zhuum," the creature said.
Panglor heard that, but also understood, "Greetings. I welcome you to
my ruins, humble though they be. I trust they will suffice to provide
hospitality to two shipwrecked, and perhaps forlorn, humans."
Panglor met the creature's gaze warily. How could it know who they
were? he wondered in astonishment. LePiep, however, emoted reassurance
as she squirmed in his arms; apparently she trusted the alien. Well, she had
met it before, and she had a good sense for whom to trust and whom not to

trust—so, Panglor thought, he might as well follow her lead. He bowed
forward in human fashion. "Greetings to you, too," he mumbled.
Alo nodded. "Hi."
The alien spoke again in its own tongue, which Panglor heard as,
"Would you care to accompany me to my ship?"
Panglor gazed curiously at the alien. He looked male to Panglor, at
least by human analogy, and Panglor thought something else, too; he
thought the creature was a Kili. Panglor had never seen a Kili—no human
had—but he had seen artists' renderings, based upon artifacts found in Kili
ruins, and this alien looked a lot like those renderings. That would be
something—finding the first Kili ever to be seen by humanity!
"Sure," he said, answering the invitation. He nudged the ou-ralot in his
arms and added, "This is LePiep."
The alien again bowed sideways with a swish. "LePiep. Yes—we met
earlier. My name is Tiki. May I ask yours?"
"Oh—I'm Panglor," said Panglor. "And this is Alo."
Alo smiled with surprising charm, and the alien bowed and swished
again. Then he turned and led the way toward the wrecked spaceship.
Alo whispered to Panglor, "I like him. I wonder what he is."
Panglor grinned, nudged her, and hurried after the alien. "Say—ah—
Tiki."
The alien turned and looked at him serenely.
Panglor squinted and said, gesturing self-consciously, "Ahm—say,
aren't you a Kili?" He cleared his throat and flushed.
Tiki stared at him for a moment. "I see what you mean," he said. His
eyes lost focus.
"What?"
Tiki's gaze cleared. "Yes. I am. At least in the sense that you use the
word. Kili." He bowed. Then he turned and started walking again.
Panglor squinted, trying to figure out what that meant.
"Hurry," said Alo, prodding him. "Keep up. Maybe he'll hide us in his
ship."
Oh, right. There was still Deerfield to worry about, wasn't there?
"Good idea," he whispered back. "But I don't know what to expect from a
Kili." Alo shrugged and tugged him by the arm.

They approached the ruined spaceship beside the vapor-lagoon. With a
flourish, Tiki ushered them to the entrance, the nearest of two large gashes
in the angled underside of the hull, behind the enlarged front end. Tiki
remarked, "The original entrance port has disappeared. The hull will no
longer change structure to let us pass through." He sounded sad, as though a
friend had left him. Panglor glanced curiously at him, and at the torn, yet
smooth, edge in the ruptured hull.
They entered a storage hold cluttered with boxes and machinery, then a
short passageway. Panglor and Alo ran their fingers along the walls,
touching the subdued metallic finish inquisitively, and briefly inspecting
every object they passed. Tiki led them to the enlarged front end of the ship,
and here the passageway dipped and opened into an enormous spherical
chamber. Panglor stared up and turned around in astonishment. The entire
inner surface of the sphere was studded with what looked like seats, oddly
shaped tables, and instruments. "Damnedest thing I've ever seen," Panglor
said. "What kind of gravity control do you have?"
"None, anymore," said Tiki.
"It's crazy," Alo said. "Is it for zero gravity?" She darted up the curved
incline and ran down in a big arc testing the shape.
"Before," Tiki said gravely, "we had selectable gravity against the
inner surface, and we chose what we wished. And the shape, of course,
changed as we wished." His neck twitched. "But none of that now. We had a
rather difficult crash." He blinked somberly.
"We crashed, too," said Alo.
"Of course," Tiki said. "Many do. Would you like to sit? Can I bring
you anything for refreshment?"
"We have food," Alo said, holding up her totebag. She sat on an odd-
shaped couch that was nearly level, glanced at Panglor, and patted the seat
beside her. Panglor released LePiep to nose about and sat beside Alo. He
took a sandwich and a bulb of juice and faced Tiki, who was drawing
something for himself out of a small panel. A long stick, apparently food.
"You mean other ships have crashed here?" Panglor said.
"Oh my, yes," answered Tiki. "Did you imagine you were the first? I
can take you to see other shipwrecks, if you like. Some of the finest ones
are just a short walk from here."
"You're joking," Alo said, munching.

"Why would I joke with a guest? I don't have guests often—it's been a
while since my last ones disappeared."
Panglor scowled. "Disappeared?"
"Just vanished, most of them. I've tried to organize shipwrecks into
groups to work for the social betterment, and so forth, but it never works.
Most of the people go crazy and just fade out or wander off, and that's the
last you see of them. Usually it's the sane ones. That's why I'm here, still,
and my poor fellows and keepers aren't."
"What do you mean, that's why you're here?" asked Panglor.
"Sorry, I thought you knew. I am considered unwell, almost not Kili.
Mad. Never could follow it myself, though." Tiki turned his two eyes
inward, crossing them for a moment, and then relaxed and bit off a piece of
his stick. "I hope you don't mind my digesting while we talk. My fellows
would not have approved, but then, they're not here anymore." He looked
cross-eyed again, then gazed back at the humans.
"You are humans. I have met some of your race-fellows. Actually a
number of them have crashed here through the years, but the crews never
were able to adapt. The place just didn't coincide with their conceptions
about how things ought to be."
Panglor cleared his throat uncomfortably. He waved his sandwich in
the air, then took a bite and started to talk with his mouth full. Alo
interrupted him. "How'd they get here?" she said. "How'd you get here?"
"Why, the same way we all did, I imagine," said Tiki, brushing his
sleeves. "Pulled right out of stressed space."
"Stressed space?" said Panglor, wonderingly. He jerked his thumb
upward. "We were brought down from orbit."
"Were you, now? How interesting! Does that mean your people are
exploring here again?"
"Uh-uh. We got here by—well—never mind that. What about this
planet. It acts just like, I don't know, a—"
"Discontinuity," said Alo. "Like there's a discontinuity in the physical
laws here, or surrounding the whole planet."
"Well, really," said Tiki, spreading his hands and arms, "I think we can
be more precise than that. After all, we're all here together, aren't we?"
Panglor could have sworn that the Kili was manifesting embarrassment.
How strange. "I think we can describe it," Tiki continued, "as a locus of

many smaller discontinuities that naturally occur in the behavioral fabric of
space, or, if you prefer, as an interference fringe of many aberrations in the
wavefronts of spatial reality. You could define it as a zone surrounding the
planet, or perhaps you could define the planet as an artifact of the zone
itself. To be honest, I'm not sure that this planet exists at all, except as an
interference effect."
Panglor plucked at his teeth with a fingernail. "Yah?" He glanced at
Alo, who had her eyes half closed, thinking. "So—" he said to Tiki, "how
do all these ships happen to wind up here? They just pop in out of space?"
"Like a big, natural capture-field," murmured Alo, blinking.
"It seems to attract ships the way a gravity well attracts objects in
unstressed space," Tiki said. "Or a counter-collapsing field in stressed
space." He bit from his stick and chewed delicately.
"So . . . so ships get caught like flies. Right out of foreshortening."
Panglor felt a series of hot and cold flashes of fear—the uncertainty he felt
in foreshortening, the terror that his ship would fail, would lose itself in
limbo. "Maybe," he said, his voice trembling, "maybe space is full of
planets—discontinuities—like this."
"Loci. Interference patterns. No doubt you are correct. My sane
fellows of the Kili have lost ships without explanation, and I have met
others with similar problems. Still, I would hardly say that space is full of
them. Rather, I think they are scattered about, and perhaps they cause eddies
and undercurrents that draw straying ships to them in the stressed space."
"Right!" Panglor said. "Of course!" He started to become excited; the
fear was changing to an adrenaline rush. These loci, these interference
patterns, could be like shoals in an uncharted sea. Perhaps they were
irregular, perhaps they shifted; but if they could be known, they could be
avoided. "Yeah! Yeah—hey, we ought to be able to detect these things and
stay away from them." He jumped up and faced a startled Alo, then turned
to a serene-looking Kili. He was bubbling with enthusiasm. He heard a
whistle and turned to catch an excited LePiep in his arms.
"What a discovery! This is where the lost ships are going!" He
chuckled wildly; he could not believe his fortune. "Wait till we report this!
They'll have to listen to us!" he exclaimed. "They'll have to! My God, this
could be the most important discovery in—"

Alo interrupted him, tapping his arm. "Pangly," she said. "Pangly—
have you forgotten? That's great, knowing all about this—this discovery.
But how do we get back to brag about it? We're stranded here."
"Why, we—" Panglor said, and his spirits sagged. She was absolutely
right, of course. And it wasn't fair. "Ho-loo, ho-loo," mourned LePiep.
Panglor sat down, utterly deflated.
Alo sighed. "Don't worry, Pangly, we'll think of something," she said,
patting him on the knee. She tickled LePiep under the chin, and LePiep's
pleasure touched Panglor, relaxing him a little. Alo turned to Tiki. "How
long have you been here? What's it like?"
"Ah," said Tiki. "How long? Who knows? My friends the fish out there
experience time more slowly than I, and I more slowly than many other
folk. Why, there was one other madman I saw, who was neither of your race
nor mine—who was mad enough to stay but too mad to enjoy it—and I saw
him grow old and die, finally, poor soul." He crossed his eyes and became
still.
"What do you mean, he was 'mad enough to stay'?" Panglor asked,
scowling.
Tiki remained still, apparently not hearing Panglor's question. Finally
Alo cleared her throat and Tiki suddenly stirred and said, "Madness, of
course, makes it easier. My good but new friends—I have been here long,
even by my own reckoning. I have seen ships appear, and sometimes
disappear. And I have traveled, of course, but I have always come back."
"Where?" said Panglor, startled.
"Here, of course."
"No, where have you traveled to? Around the planet, you mean?"
"Oh, that. It's hard to say, of course. But I believe there is very little
more to see in this world than I have seen already. If you travel far, you
always return to your beginning. I think there is really not so much area
here. Which makes me think it is not quite so much the real planet as it
would seem." He rocked his head back and spoke as though his listeners
were above him. "No, I have traveled to other discontinuity zones—
elsewhere. I do not know where. Perhaps they are all linked. Sometimes
there are voices . . . " He gazed wistfully upward.
"Bah!" said Panglor, looking away. "Voices! I hear voices, but that
doesn't mean I'm connected with the rest of the universe." He fumed. But he

wasn't really angry with Tiki; he was angry with his helplessness. He was
angry because they were stranded here, and because he didn't like being
reminded of the voices he had heard and hadn't understood. And because it
was all so damned frustrating!
Dismay touched him invisibly. Then Alo said, "Pangly, turn around."
Sighing, he faced them. Tiki was staring into space, eyes skewed. He
seemed paralyzed—hurt by Panglor's doubt? Panglor felt shamed, but was
too embarrassed to speak, until LePiep scrambled up into his lap and lent
gentle support. The ou-ralot peered at the robed creature and radiated
concern and sympathy, and she peered back up at Panglor. "Well—" he said.
"Well. Tiki—hey, I didn't mean to be insulting or anything. I was just upset
about what's been happening. Kind of got me off edge, you know?" He held
his breath, waiting for a sign that the Kili would come around. LePiep
stretched her neck toward the alien, purring.
Tiki hissed sputteringly. Slowly, his eyes realigned themselves and he
focused on Alo and Panglor. His lips wrinkled, and he swayed. "Yes," he
said. "Well, the place—the planet—the locus—the interference fringe—
responds to thought and to state of mind. Maybe the place doesn't, but what
happens here does." His eyes crossed again. "My poor shipmates. Poor
shipmates . . . " He began making creaking noises, and his face turned
shades of red and brown. His creaking became a high keening. LePiep cried
and curled herself into a quivering ball, radiating sorrow and pain.
A tremble passed through them, through the ship. Panglor heard a
distant rumbling, as of a thunderstorm or an earthquake. His weight
increased; his arms grew leaden. With difficulty, he held LePiep
protectively and looked around nervously, as Tiki wailed. My God, he
thought, is the ship taking off? Please, no!
Alo couldn't stand it any longer. "Tiki!" she cried. "Tiki!"
The Kili's eyes popped straight, and the colors drained from his face.
The vibrations in the ship ceased, and Panglor felt his weight return to
normal. "My manners!" Tiki whispered. "Forgive me! I failed to seek your
approval before my emotional display. But I thought of my shipmates—
they couldn't make the adjustment." His square pupils opened wide. "They
were too rational, too stable. And so they went truly mad. They broke.
While I, who was thought unKili mad, remain here."

Tiki's eyes narrowed and he rose. He turned around, then back. "Why, I
believe we have more guests coming," he said, blinking rapidly. "Are there
other people with you? Should we go meet them?"
Panglor's limbs went cold. For a moment, he could neither move his
eyes nor speak. Finally he asked, "Are there humans out there?"
"Indeed," said Tiki.
"Wait. Don't go out yet." He chewed his lip, thinking.
Tiki obviously sensed Panglor's alarm. The ou-ralot was up now,
chirruping and radiating dismay. Tiki gazed at Panglor, canting his eyes
inward just enough to indicate his concern. "Is something wrong?" he
asked. "How may I help, friends Panglor and Alo and LePiep?"
"They—" started Panglor, and he shook his head, trying to think how
to say this. "If they are the people we think, then they followed us, and their
intentions will not be friendly."
"What may I do to help?" Tiki asked, swaying. "Are they evil or
violent men?"
"They're angry," said Panglor, gesturing futilely.
Alo said, "Can you—?"
"Will you talk to them?" interrupted Panglor. "Find out what they
want, but don't let them know we're here?"
"Of course I can do this," said Tiki, patting down his robe. "Can you
doubt it? Is it so difficult?" He seemed almost to be chuckling.
Panglor gazed at him uncertainly. Doubt? Certainly he did; this was a
self-confessed insane Kili. What did he know of murder and mayhem, and
of lying and making sense to bloodthirsty men? Perhaps much; perhaps
nothing. But what choice did they have? "No, no," he answered.
"But be careful," said Alo. "Please."
Tiki bowed so far left, and then right, that it looked as though he would
topple over. Then he straightened and said, "Careful is all a matter of
viewpoint." And he glided out through the passageway.

OceanofPDF.com

Chapter 10
Panglor and Alo joined glances for a moment. "You know what?" Alo
said. "He reminds me of Urula."
"Who?"
"Tiki."
"Who's Urula? What do I care who Urula is? I'm worried about those
men out there. They could kill us."
"Urula's my teacher," said Alo. "Only teacher I had at the station who
was any good. He had a little robot. Never took me, himself, or the robot
too seriously. I liked that."
Panglor let out his breath like a steam explosion. "What the hell do I
care about some teacher when there are men out there ready to kill us?" He
glared at her, until she furrowed her brow, gave him a crinkled smile, and
shrugged.
"Okay, okay," she said, standing. "Let's go see what's happening. We
can spy."
He grabbed LePiep, and they went out, following Tiki.
They peered into the outer storage compartment. Nothing stirred; Tiki
must have gone outside. Alo nudged him, and they moved closer to the
opening in the hull, where sunlight spilled into the compartment. There they
took up a position behind some crates, in relative darkness, where they
could listen and peer cautiously outside.
Tiki had walked some distance along the lagoon, and he was now
greeting two men. The men were dressed in uniforms—probably Vikken,
though it was impossible to be sure—and they seemed to be holding
sidearms. Alo hunkered down beside Panglor and whispered, "I wish we
could hear them." Panglor shushed her and strained his ears. He edged one
way and then the other, behind the crates, and suddenly found a spot where
he could hear the voices of the men and Tiki, distantly.
"We're looking for a human like us," said one of the men. His voice
sounded unnatural; perhaps it was a trick of distance. "We have to find
him."
"Whatever for?" asked Tiki. "Don't you have enough?"

The man replied, in confusion, "Have you seen this human, is what I'm
asking. We're trying to find him because—we're just trying to find him. We
think he came this way."
"Yah. We think he came this way," echoed the second man.
"I don't know what to say. It's been simply ages since anyone like
yourselves came by here," said Tiki. "I've seen all sorts of people, of course,
human and—" his words became unintelligible "—and—" unintelligible
"—and—"
"Yeah, yeah—right," interrupted the first man. "Look, we'd be
interested in all that, except for the fact—the fact is, we're shipwrecked
here, and we—we—"
"Of course you are. Everyone here is shipwrecked," Tiki said.
"—we've got to get this guy, because, well, he's the one put us here.
And Jeeb sent us out to find him and told us not to bother coming back
unless we did." The crewman broke off, coughing. He looked terribly upset.
Panglor trembled, absorbing what the man had said.
The second man added in a wounded tone, "That just wasn't like Jeeb.
Cap'n Drak, maybe, or some of those others we were lucky enough not to
get—they're bastards, they are, some of them—but not Jeeb. Why, Tal, he'd
as soon tell the cap'n himself not to come back as he would talk that way to
his crew."
A sudden, terrible heat made Panglor sweat.
"Pangly, what's the matter?" whispered Alo, crowding close. LePiep
peered up, emanating concern.
Jeeb. Tal Jeebering? Panglor swallowed, clamping down a rush of
emotions. Steady, Balef, steady. Tal Jeebering was a Vikken officer he had
worked under, briefly—the only Vikken officer who was not a rat-
buggering dog, the only officer who had treated him with a semblance of
human dignity.
"Pangly!" Alo hissed. "What's wrong?"
He shut his eyes, trembling. Now Jeeb was on this planet. Marooned,
with the rest of the Deerfield crew. He had done that—Panglor Balef had
done that, to the only decent man in the Vikken fleet. And now that man
wanted Panglor's head. And who could blame him?
An elbow caught him in the ribs, jolting him from the depths of guilt.
He met Alo's eyes, dark hazel and intent. She gestured, palms up, trying to

make him speak.
"I know that guy they're talking about," he whispered, finally. "One of
the Deerfield officers. The guy who told them not to come back without
me." Alo stared back, uncomprehending. He realized, then, that she hadn't
heard the men's voices; she had no idea what he was talking about.
"Listen," he said, pointing into the sunlight. He blinked and squinted.
Tiki and the two men were closer now; Tiki kept moving in front of them as
though to halt their progress, but the men just kept walking by him.
Panglor shifted slightly and heard the first man say, "We've got to
search your ship." The man rushed past Tiki in an exaggerated movement.
Tiki hopped back, startled. The man jumped, startled by Tiki's movement,
and pointed his weapon at the Kili. "Going to search your ship. You don't
mind, I don't mind. Right?" Tiki blinked and trilled. The man grunted and
waved his partner along. With Tiki following, they approached and
surveyed the ship.
"What do you think?" hissed Alo. "Can we ambush them?"
Panglor squinted sideways. His thigh muscles were cramped from
squatting behind these crates; his knees, his ankles, and his back all hurt.
His left foot was jammed against some kind of machinery, and something
else was poking into his side. He did not feel quite up to jumping out at
armed men. "Let's get inside," he hissed back.
Alo raised her eyebrows, but looked relieved. "All right, let's go," she
whispered. Panglor grunted. His muscles didn't want to coordinate. He
edged back toward the inner passage, then hesitated, still squatting, and
tried to figure a concealed route across the compartment. Alo jarred him
from behind, and he tumbled forward, knocking cartons over with a clatter.
"Hey!" a man yelled. Panglor scrambled to his feet, still holding
LePiep—and saw a Deerfield crewman blocking the sunlight. The man
squinted into the gloom, brandishing a nervie.
Panglor jumped back for cover—then saw Alo standing, exposed. "Get
down!" he hissed.
The crewman started and yelled, "Stop, you!" He fired the nervie. The
gun belched a bright-blue fireball, which zigzagged slowly through the air.
The ball hovered in the center of the compartment and then exploded into a
whizzing display of fireworks: streamers and fire-flowers and stroboscopic

images of wildcats chasing each others' tails. The fireworks ended with a
pop.
Panglor and Alo blinked at each other, and at the crewman. The
crewman blinked, baffled. Then his partner entered the ship and the spell
broke. "How did you do that?" the first man shouted. He pointed the nervie
with both hands.
Panglor laughed. "I didn't," he cackled, shaking his head. Then he fell
silent. Nervie or no nervie, they were caught.
"Okay, you," the crewman ordered. "You're coming with—" His voice
dropped. Alo was bristling indignantly, and he had just noticed her. "Who
are you?" he growled.
"Alo," she said. "Who are you?"
The second crewman squinted and brought his weapon to bear. Tiki
slipped in behind both, watching. "Alo, huh?" said the first man. "And
you?" He waved his gun at Panglor.
"That's Panglor Balef. Captain Panglor Balef, of The Fighting Cur,"
Alo said sharply. Panglor stood mute, trying to analyze the situation. It
analyzed badly, so he tried it again another way. Alo said, "You haven't told
us who you are."
The two men exchanged scowls, and the first said, "We're from
Deerfield, as if you didn't know. Spacer Godspey"—he hooked a thumb at
his partner—"and I'm Spacer Turret. We've been looking for you for days.
Now you two are taking a walk with us. Back to face the music. And boy,
are you—"
"Is Tal Jeebering an officer on your ship?" interrupted Panglor.
Turret glared and said, "Yeah, and he's going to chew you so bad you'll
wish—"
"He's a good man," said Panglor abruptly, and taking Alo by the arm,
he stalked past Turret and Godspey and out of the ship. He nodded to Tiki,
who fell in beside them. LePiep muttered in his arms.
The two crewmen charged after them.
"You hold it right there!" Godspey shouted. Panglor stopped, looked
back, and dug at the bank with his toe while he waited for the men to catch
up.
"Get on the com," Turret ordered his partner. "Tell Jeeb we've found
them, and ask him what we should do about this alien." He silently guarded

his captives, while Godspey attempted to contact Deerfield on his personal
com. The sputter of static was audible to everyone.
"Can't get anything," Godspey said.
"All right. We start walking, then. You, there—alien—you can come if
you want, but we won't force you." Turret waved his weapon at Tiki.
"Why, that is most generous of you," replied Tiki.
"You being sarcastic?" Turret squinted. "Never mind. Balef, you and
the girl start walking. That animal—you can't bring it. Leave it here."
Panglor eyed him, then said, "Let's go, Alo." Together they set off in
the direction they had originally come from. Panglor stroked LePiep as he
walked, and she crooned unperturbedly.
"You hear me?" growled Turret. "Leave the animal."
Sighing, Panglor turned. "Shoot me," he suggested. LePiep whistled in
delight, encouraging him. He shushed her.
Turret and Godspey advanced threateningly. "That's enough of that!"
shouted Godspey. Suddenly he whirled, gaping. Tiki had vanished. He had
been walking alongside Panglor, and now he was gone. Godspey made
gurgling noises.
Alo nudged Panglor and grinned. Panglor shrugged in bewilderment,
but chuckled. The crewmen were looking around furiously.
"What's the matter?" said Tiki, standing beside Panglor. He stretched
and contracted his mouth oddly.
Panglor choked. "Where'd you go?" he whispered. LePiep chittered,
enjoying what she obviously took to be a game.
Turret swung around and caught sight of Tiki. He glared indignantly.
"Are you planning to cause trouble?" he snapped.
"Why, what are you all talking about?" Tiki asked. He started to fade,
becoming partly transparent. "Oh. Oh, I see," he said hollowly and became
solid again. "Yes, yes. No trouble. I don't have guests often. Why would I
cause trouble?" His eyes skewed, and he started to fade, but then became
solid again. "I'm not sure if I'll be staying here with you just now," he added
hastily. "I'll let you know."
Turret started to reply, but another voice interrupted—neither a human
voice nor the Kili's. It was a tenor sort of voice, and it muttered sonorously
for perhaps five or six seconds. A deeper voice took its place, speaking in

an altogether different tongue. Panglor cocked his head, trying to recognize
the sounds. "What's that?" cried Turret, swinging his weapon wildly.
"Voices," Tiki said.
Turret went red in the face and for a moment looked apoplectic. But
finally he spoke through gritted teeth. "What voices?" There was a distinct
crack to his own voice.
"Oh, well, I couldn't tell you specifically," answered Tiki. "Not anyone
around here, I'm sure. Possibly they're from another discontinuity, from
across space."
Turret and Godspey stared at each other. Godspey was making quiet,
funny noises, and that worried Panglor a little; the man might be on the
verge of some kind of breakdown. Panglor cleared his throat and said, "Uh,
maybe we should keep on moving—"
A new sound interrupted him, a melodic tone like the voice of a whale.
It, too, came out of thin air, but its source sounded very close by.
Tiki beamed, obviously recognizing this voice. "Why, that's . . .
[unintelligible]. I haven't spoken with her in so long! How I would love to
see her again!" he cried. He wavered, almost disappearing, then solidified
long enough to say, "Do have a pleasant time, all of you. I'll speak with you
again." Then he vanished. LePiep chirruped curiously and continued
peering toward the spot where the Kili had been standing.
"Oh no!" cried Alo.
"All right!" Turret snarled—fed up, and obviously shaken. "Let's get
going!"
"We were going," Panglor said mildly, "until you stopped us. So let's
go."
Turret gestured silently with the gun. They started walking.
The terrain had turned oddly lush. Exotic bushes and trees lined the
path, glistening waxily under a billowing red sun. The tree leaves and stems
resembled plastic, yet felt alive, venting moisture and breath. Panglor felt
an illogical sense of ease, walking with LePiep perched on his shoulder
radiating contentment, humming and purring as though all were going
exactly as planned. After a time, at Alo's request, he passed the ou-ralot
over to her. It occurred to Panglor that compared to these two Vikken men
he was staying sane, keeping his equilibrium very well indeed. Now, that
was a reversal from the usual state of affairs, and he rather relished it.

None of them knew where they were going, of course. Turret and
Godspey followed, guns drawn, as Panglor and Alo picked their own
direction. But after about an hour, it seemed, they sighted The Fighting Cur
over an outcropping—her hull gleaming dustily in the sun. As they circled
past the intervening ridge, the ship shifted in perspective disconcertingly,
but did not disappear.
They emerged onto the grassy plain. Deerfield was about a kilometer
off in the distance, but several of its crew stood guard at the base of The
Fighting Cur. The sloping promontory to the Cur's hatch was gone.
"Hey!" Turret yelled. "Call Jeeb! We got them!"
The guards jumped to attention. One of them darted off toward
Deerfield. The others met the party.
Out of the group, a wiry little man strode aggressively up to Panglor
and squinted. "So!" he growled. His slitted eyes flickered menacingly. Then
he blinked in confusion and stepped back without another word, his eyes
dazed. Another man said threateningly, "No way you're getting back in your
ship." He hefted a co-beam gun large enough to crater the side of a
spaceship. Panglor grunted noncommittally and edged closer to Alo. He
hoped that the man wasn't crazed enough to actually use that weapon.
LePiep peered at the men and muttered curiously. She was scarcely
fazed by their bullying postures. "Hrrrl," she rumbled, hanging over Alo's
arm.
Turret waved them all on toward Deerfield.
Alo set LePiep back up on Panglor's shoulder and took his arm. "We'll
show them, Pangly," she murmured. Panglor nodded, but he wasn't nearly
so confident.
The Vikken ship was farther away and larger than he had thought. As
they drew close, he realized that Deerfield must have carried at least a
dozen crewmen and a sizable cargo. And he had brought them all to this
forsaken place. He stole a glance or two at the guards, expecting to see grim
faces; but actually, two were grinning, one looked frightened, and another
looked ready to kill. Panglor shivered.
More crewmen met them from Deerfield. These new arrivals were
angry-looking men, and probably only Alo's presence deterred them from
immediate violence. She seemed to unnerve them. First one man and then
another looked askance at her; none seemed to know how to respond to the

presence of a female in this situation. But toward Panglor their mood was
clearly ugly, and he half-expected at any moment to feel blows thundering
about his head and shoulders. He lowered LePiep and held her protectively
in his arms. He felt a wave of perplexed sympathy and warmth as the ou-
ralot squirmed in his arms, looking around. Several of the crewmen noticed
the creature and suddenly looked abashed and confused. LePiep's
emanations of friendliness rippled through the crowd, causing more than
one pair of eyes to blink and soften.
"Hold it!" ordered a familiar, deep voice. The crewmen mumbled
uneasily and jostled about to make room. "Balef! Panglor Balef?"
Panglor's breath caught. He could not answer.
A tall, red-haired, orange-eyed man strode through the group and
halted before Panglor. It was Tal Jeebering, exactly as Panglor remembered
him—but with eyes afire. "Balef—it is you. I was ready to have you hung
and your throat slit. What are you doing, mixed up in this business? Was
that you who deflected us off course?" Clamping his mouth shut suddenly,
Jeebering rocked his weight back, crossed his arms, and scrutinized Panglor
grimly.
Panglor flushed with shame. He was still unable to speak. LePiep
whistled once in fear and tucked her head into his arms.
"All right!" Jeebering bawled suddenly. "You men, return to your
duties. Godspey and Turret, you stay here." He glared at Panglor. LePiep
trembled and peeked out at him. Jeebering noticed her after a moment, and
he scowled, then said, "Okay, I'm going to give you a chance to explain,
although I'm damned if I know why I should." He turned and strode toward
the ship, to a spot near the hatch where several crates had been arranged to
make seats. Panglor and the others followed; two of the guards sat on crates
along with Jeebering, and everyone else sat on the grass.
"You don't look as though you're starving," Jeebering observed. "Did
you carry off enough food to hide out for two weeks, or did you grub?"
"Huh?" Panglor said, finding his voice at last. He looked at Jeebering
in confusion. "We were only gone a day. I can explain about the deflection.
Listen—I tried not to—"
One of the Deerfield crewmen suddenly erupted with a gargling sound
and lunged forward, reaching for Panglor's neck, fingers twitching.
"Genslick—none of that!" Jeebering bawled. Alo growled. One of the other

men slapped Genslick's arm away, then beamed at Jeebering like a child
who had just diverted a smaller child from the cookie jar. Jeebering touched
his forehead with the fingertips of both hands. "Balef," he said softly,
staring at the ground. "Do you have any idea what's been happening to my
men? Why did you do this?"
"Didn't mean to," Panglor mumbled sorrowfully. How could he
explain? He noticed that just as many crewmen surrounded them now as
before, despite Jeebering's orders. Their expressions reminded him of
disturbed children. These men were not holding up well, and he had an
uneasy feeling that their condition would get worse before it got better. He
wondered what bizarre experiences these men had been suffering.
"The Old Man—" Jeebering said, shaking his head and hooking a
thumb over his shoulder. He failed to finish the sentence, though, and
appeared to have forgotten what he was going to say. LePiep lifted her
head, warbling encouragingly, and that appeared to draw Jeebering back to
the present. "Balef," he said, "did you or did you not put us all here by
pulling some harebrained maneuver back there at—" He waved a hand
vaguely, evidently referring to D3.
This is bad, Panglor thought. If Jeebering is losing touch with reality,
what hope do any of us have?
"Well, Balef?"
"Yah," he answered abruptly. "But I was trying to avoid doing it.
Grakoff-Garikoff had me by the—"
"Garikoff—are they behind this?" Jeebering growled. Panglor nodded,
and explained the situation and how he had tried to circumvent it. Jeebering
shook his head grimly. "Garikoff," he muttered darkly. "Christ, no wonder.
You know what we're carrying in this hull?"
Panglor shook his head.
"Well, besides a load of tech products, we've got a hold full of
superheavy-doped semicrystals. Very valuable neutronics stuff. Don't know
how those Garikoff bastards found out about it, but this load is worth a
mint. The Old Man damn near had a stroke after what you did. He's in his
cabin flat on his back now." Jeebering ran his fingers through his moppish
red hair. His eyes flamed. He glanced around at the circle of crewmen and
shook his head. "Balef, where have you been hiding out for the last two
weeks? Things here aren't right. My men aren't well. Two of them claimed

that they were attacked by dragons the other day. Another man said they
were vultures, not dragons. And three men have said that they almost fell
off the edge of the world!" Pain crossed his face. He appeared more
confused than angry.
Panglor hesitated, surprised. Weren't they going to try him, convict
him, and execute him? No one here looked capable of that much
concentration.
"Two weeks, Balef. Where have you been?"
"Jeeb, I told you."
Alo interrupted impatiently. "It's the time discontinuity. Haven't you
even figured out what's going on here yet?"
Jeebering suddenly noticed her. "Who are you?" His eyebrows danced
in astonishment. Evidently he had not seen her before.
"Alontelida Castley. Who are you?" She stirred, as though to rise in her
own defense.
Anger surfaced in Jeebering's eyes. "Young lady," he said crossly —
—and the world abruptly went dark, then light. Panglor swallowed,
held LePiep tightly, and felt his stomach lurch. The ground dropped away
beneath him and his weight left him—but he did not fall. The landscape
began turning, as though he and the others were revolving on a carousel;
their faces blurred, making him dizzy, and then jumped back into sharp
focus against the moving background—Alo, Jeebering, the others, all with
fear in their eyes. Panglor smelled the fear, felt it prickle on his skin, felt it
ripple like an electric current around the ring of people.
Only LePiep was unaffected. She perked her ears. "Hyolp!" she cried,
radiating joy. Instantly Panglor felt his own fear lessen; the carousel
gradually slowed, the ground became solid again, and his weight returned.
The sky shivered with yellow and green and black bursts, as though
lightning had flashed up from beyond the horizon. Thunder rolled distantly.
And suddenly all was still, normal—and the sky turned pale and the world
was as before. Except that Tiki stood in their midst.
Mutters of bewilderment rose from the circle. LePiep beamed happily.
"What's going on here?" Jeebering demanded harshly, jumping to his feet.
He glared at Tiki with hands on his hips.
Tiki swayed solemnly before Panglor and Alo, then turned and
repeated the motion before Jeebering and the others. "Greetings," he said

brightly. Though the words were in his own tongue, everyone seemed to
understand him. He said to Jeebering, "You must be the chief choker of this
group, aren't you?"
Jeebering started. "Chief choker?" he said. "I haven't heard that
expression in years! Who are you? Where did you come from?"
"Ah—Jeeb," Panglor said uncomfortably, "this is Tiki. We were over at
his shipwreck when your men found us. He's a Kili, Jeeb. He was marooned
here with a Kili ship—been shipwrecked here a long time, I guess."
"True, true," said Tiki.
Jeebering frowned at both of them. But Panglor continued, "Tiki, this
is Tal Jeebering. He's—he's—" Words failed him; the pounding of blood in
his head obliterated whatever he had meant to say.
"Mate," grunted Jeebering. "Balef, you served with me—when? Eight
years ago? On the Randolph P.P. Lupollof?" He shook his head unhappily,
as though trying in vain to link the past with the present.
Panglor nodded dizzily. Lord—how was he going to straighten this
out? He forced himself to speak. "Tiki, Jeeb is First Mate on Deerfield."
Calm, Balef—calm, he thought. LePiep muttered, bolstering his spirits; she
looked up at Tiki and hooted her welcome. Jeebering observed this without
comment, but LePiep's waves of enthusiasm appeared to ease the tension in
his eyes.
"Pleased," Tiki said, beaming. He spoke to Jeebering. "Were my good
friends Panglor and Alo and LePiep explaining to you about the
discontinuity locus that's responsible for your ship being here and your crew
losing their minds?" He swayed politely left and right.
Jeebering blinked in bewilderment, ignoring Tiki's question. "You're a
Kili?" he asked skeptically. He scratched his ear. "Huh. I guess maybe you
are." He looked around at the perplexed faces of his crew. "What do you
think of that, men?"
"Nobody's ever seen a real Kili," said one of the men, gazing intently
at Tiki. "Chee."
"Jeeb," said Panglor insistently. "About this discontinuity zone—"
"A Kili. Think of that!" crowed another crewman.
Jeebering drew himself up formally before the Kili. "I am First Mate,
and these are crewmen of Deerfield, freighter of the Vikken Traders,

Limited, shipping line," he said. "Our Captain is Thaddeus Drak. He is in
the ship, and is not well."
Tiki bobbed. "You are of the Vikken line?" he said. "Indeed! I have
seen several of your ships, in times gone by—and many men of the Vikken
line, of course. How nice to see more of you!"
Jeebering's eyes bulged. His lips twitched and went up at the corners,
crookedly. "You've seen other Vikken ships? Vikken men?" His eyes
narrowed and turned grim.
"Yes, indeed," said Tiki. "Ovid ships, too, and Sloane Lines. I never
could understand why those men were so vain about loyalty to their
shipping lines. But I've seen quite a number of them here, from time to
time."
Nostrils flaring, Jeebering turned a burning gaze onto Panglor.
"Hey, wait!" Panglor protested. "I had nothing to do with any other—"
"What's going on here, Balef?" Jeebering said. He grabbed Panglor's
upper arm, hard. "What's happening? What's all this talk about ships, about
men?"
"Oh God," Alo said. "Don't you get it yet?"
Jeebering was actually trembling now. The men stirred in confusion
and muttered in an ugly tone. Panglor was very nervous about the mental
state of those men. "Hey Jeeb—" he said urgently, stroking LePiep as he
talked, hoping that she would radiate soothing feelings. "It's not that terrible
a thing. Now, we'll explain it to you—why don't we all just spread out here
on the grass, and maybe someone can go get refreshments, because I don't
know about all of you, but we're kind of thirsty and . . . "
As he talked, the others quieted somewhat, and Jeebering released
Panglor's arm and focused his eyes more clearly; and eventually everyone
did exactly as Panglor had suggested. Then Panglor explained the
discontinuity locus that apparently surrounded, or defined, this world. He
described the sequence of events that had brought the Cur down to the
planet—which, he learned, was roughly the way that Deerfield had arrived,
too.
Alo broke in. "Look. We think there are lots of very small
discontinuities throughout space. But normally they're too small for us to
notice, or measure—they're like the spaces in the weave of a tight cloth. But

here the threads are splitting apart, and probably in the heart of the zone
there's nothing but a big, gaping hole in the fabric of space."
Panglor nodded. "That's one way to look at it," he said. "Another way
is that in the ocean of reality, there are billions of imperceptible wavefronts
of distortion, of aberration. And here they all intersect, reinforcing each
other, and it's like a gigantic standing wavefront of distorted reality. In a
way, it's like a black-hole singularity, minus the gravitational effects."
Tiki chortled enthusiastically. But most of the men seemed to have
trouble following.
Panglor explained again.
After considerable confusion, most of the crewmen began to
understand the significance of the discovery—if Panglor's interpretation
was correct. "This discontinuity in space and time can swallow ships. It can
pull them in like mosquitoes to a trap." Panglor said. "There are probably
other zones like this, all through space, that we haven't detected yet. Who
knows how many of the ships that have been lost in foreshortening have
been swallowed up by discontinuities? Right, Tiki? Alo? Jeeb?" He looked
from one to another, fired by the implications. The zones could be the cause
of the uncertainty faced by every spacer and every passenger in
foreshortening. This was the unknown danger, the mysterious killer. If it
could be understood, perhaps it could be avoided.
And here was a real, live Kili, helping them understand it all. Panglor
glanced at Tiki and suddenly felt a rush of affection for this alien, whom he
barely even knew. LePiep grumbled happily, reflecting and sharing his
emotion.
"There's one problem," Jeebering observed, looking depressed. "We
can't get off this planet, and even if we could, there's no way to make an
insertion out of this system. The collapsing-field's shut down." He cast a
neutral glance at Panglor, then studied the backs of his hands.
Alo spoke, digging at the grass roots with her fingers. "Bet we could
start it up again." She pulled up a tangled bit of weed and squinted at it.
Turret, the crewman, snorted.
"Sure," said Alo. "They wouldn't have kept the capture-field going if
they hadn't thought maybe they'd want to come back some time, and they
wouldn't do that unless they knew they could get the collapsing-field going
to get home again." She dropped the weed and glanced around. "Right?"

she said. Panglor caught her eye and gestured affirmatively. He should have
thought of that himself.
No one replied. But suddenly one of the crewmen started choking,
with a sound somewhere between a sob and a ghoulish cackle. The others
stirred uneasily, but it was a moment before anyone moved to help the man.
He was gagging hoarsely, grinning. Finally Turret and another man grasped
him by the arms and calmed him. Jeebering gestured for them to take the
man back into the ship. Then he faced Alo. "Turning on a collapsing-field is
not so easy, you know. Even if the station was left in working order, we
don't have the equipment or the trained people to do it."
"So what's so difficult?" Alo said insistently.
Jeebering threw his hands up. "What's so difficult? First you have to
control the solar collectors and relays, and there's no telling what condition
they're in, and if they're defective you have to go to each one, in close solar
orbit, and repair them—which we're not equipped to do. And then you have
to control the transformation and transmission to the field generators and
radiators, neither of which is located at the station, which is where the
primary controls are. And no one here knows how to operate those systems
anyway!" He glanced thoughtfully at Tiki. "Unless our Kili friend, here,
does."
Tiki rocked back in surprise. "Oh no, no, no. I know nothing of it."
Jeebering sat back grimly.
Alo shrugged, undeterred. "So, we don't know that the systems are out
of order, and we don't know that we can't get them working even if they are,
and you don't know that there's no one here who knows about these things."
She hoisted herself up where she sat, to make herself taller.
"Oh?" said Jeebering dryly. He looked around, surveying his ship and
crew. The men who had escorted the ailing crewmember were returning.
"Yes," Alo said coldly. "Oh. It so happens I've spent several years
living in a waystation, where knowledge of this machinery is commonplace,
and it also happens"—she stopped and glared at two men who were
chuckling derisively—"it also happens that I know a thing or two about
tech maintenance and repair—and about the operation of the D3
foreshortening system, which succeeded the one here at D1."
"Why, is that truly the case?" said Tiki, rocking in delight.
Alo nodded severely.

Jeebering got to his feet and walked away, scowling. Panglor watched
him, feeling strangely relaxed under the orange-and-red sky, lighted by a
fiery green circlet of a sun. LePiep crooned. Jeebering suddenly shouted,
and Panglor focused, following his gaze. One of the crewmen was
flickering in and out of existence, like a film image. A moment later, he
vanished completely. Panglor had a sinking feeling. "What's this?" roared
Jeebering, wheeling around. Most of the other men growled and jumped to
their feet—except for one pair, who were lying on their backs staring at the
sky.
"What's what?" asked Tiki.
Jeebering waved his hands. "Where has my crewman gone?"
"He's just walking over here," Tiki said mildly.
"Yeah," said one of the men, lazing near Tiki. He sat up, and his gaze
moved slowly past the others.
The vanished man reappeared. He sat down near Tiki, smiling
crookedly. Then he disappeared again.
Jeebering sat back down. He looked at Tiki, at Panglor, at Alo. He
pressed his lips together tightly and frowned. He cleared his throat and
looked at Panglor again. Then Alo. Staring at the ground, finally, he said, "It
doesn't matter whether we have any chance of getting the field in operation
or not, because we can't lift off the planet. Neither ship can, not from where
they sit now. We're stuck here."
They stared at one another in silence.
"True enough, I expect," remarked Tiki. Alo looked back and forth
between Tiki and Jeebering. She shook her head, obviously undeterred. She
reached over and ruffled LePiep's fur, and said, "We'll see about that." The
ou-ralot hopped into her lap, radiating blissful confidence.

OceanofPDF.com

Chapter 11
"Let's go for a walk," Panglor said, rousing Alo and Tiki. Though they
were presumably under arrest, no one made a move to stop them. Jeebering
sat quietly with an expression of despair; he watched them get up and stroll
away.
"Where are we going, Pangly?"
LePiep squirmed and quivered in Panglor's arms. "Nowhere. Just
around." He poked the ou-ralot. "Want to run, old girl?"
"Hyoop." She leaped, gliding with spread wings to the grass, then
trotted off ahead of them.
"We'd better not go too far, though," Panglor said, glancing back. "No
telling what'll happen to these guys if we wander out of sight. Let's keep in
view of the ships."
Though he said nothing to the others about it, Panglor was feeling
rather strange. He was almost comfortable on this world, at least by
comparison with the Vikken men. And yet, he hated the thought of being
trapped here, a prisoner of some bizarre twists of nature. It rankled to be a
victim of sleazy maneuvering by Grakoff-Garikoff—who must be quite
delighted now, with both Deerfield and the Cur gone. And he felt bad for
the Vikken crew, if not for the Vikken company. Jeebering was a decent
fellow, and probably not the only one. So Panglor wanted to leave, or at
least to have the choice. Not as desperately as the others, certainly, and not
that he had anything wonderful to go back to—probably just more trouble
—but he wanted to go nevertheless. Maybe for Tal Jeebering, or even for
Alo—or for himself, to take back the news of their discovery.
"What're you thinking?" asked Alo.
"Nothing much," he answered. But his mind filled with images of this
strange world they were inhabiting. It occurred to him that perhaps, even as
peculiar as things were here, they might not now be at the true heart of the
discontinuity. Suppose they were simply near it, wedged in the splitting
weave somewhere near the actual hole in the space-time fabric. No telling
what might lie in the center, or what would happen to them if they ended up
there. Perhaps that was where those who disappeared went—into the hole,

perhaps into another reality altogether. Would anything remain as they knew
it, there? Would events there be more influenced by mental state, or less?
The thought intrigued, and worried, him. He didn't want to go there.
Maybe next trip. Things were quite difficult enough as they were, right
here, right now.
His thoughts returned to the present. How to get out of here was the
problem. He nudged Alo. "Were you stringing a line back there, talking
about how you knew the foreshortening systems?"
Alo didn't answer at once, and he looked up to see that she was
grinning too hard to speak.
"Oh, surely, no," said Tiki.
"More or less," she admitted, chuckling. "But you know they're just
borrowing trouble. The systems could be okay, and between you and me we
ought to be able to get just about anything working, don't you think?"
Panglor arched his eyebrows. He shrugged and surveyed the land. The
Fighting Cur stood solitary against a line of ridges, and behind them on the
other side sat Deerfield. The sky was lemon yellow, and the sun was still a
green circlet of fire; charcoal clouds drifted in gentle motion across the sky.
Ahead, the grass ended in a beautifully eroded rocky bank, and beyond that
a lake of misty water gleamed. LePiep was already at the bank, sniffing and
whistling tentatively. A number of airfish approached from one direction,
and from another a small cluster of aerial crystals, singing faintly like
jeweled chimes. "Taking off is the problem," Panglor said.
"Hey," said Alo, "one of those crystals is the same one we saw at first
—the one that broke."
Panglor followed the direction of her finger. A rose-quartzlike crystal
drifted by that indeed looked just like that first one they had seen. Could it
be the same one, brought back to life?
"Ho-la-ruuu!" cried LePiep. She radiated joy at the approach of the
airfish. She fluttered her wings and stepped to the very edge of the bank.
Two of the airfish nosed down to her.
"Careful, Peep," warned Panglor—but he watched in fascination. The
airfish in themselves fascinated him; there was something about them that
nagged at his mind, that made him think that he should be noticing
something but wasn't. "Where do they come from, Tiki?" he asked.
"The crystals?"

"The airfish."
"Ah, I don't know for certain. They have given me several versions of
how they came to be here, and I don't know which is the real one. But I
suspect they were aboard a ship that crashed long ago—perhaps they were
specimens, cargo, or just friendly companions like your LePiep, to some
other travelers. These may be descendants of the originals." Tiki fluttered
his hands in the air uncertainly.
Panglor fingered his lips and thought about it. "You suppose they come
from a place where they really lived in water, like most fish?"
"Do most fish live in water?" queried Tiki.
"Have you seen fish anywhere else that didn't?"
Tiki skewed his eyes momentarily. "No. I've never seen fish before.
How would they stay in the air in normal places? What would hold them
up?"
"Right," said Panglor—but now he was talking to himself. He worried
his tongue around inside his mouth and watched LePiep. She was pacing
the bank, following the direction of the airfish, which had retreated a few
meters. "Right. They wouldn't stay up. But they do here." He scratched his
neck. "Of course, all kinds of things happen here that shouldn't. But I was
just wondering—"
He stopped talking and sat in the grass with his legs sticking out over
the bank. Alo sat down beside him and peered at him questioningly.
Airfish . . .
"Well," he said, "it's just that I thought—how do they know they can
swim in the air here? Do they think it's water, or do they know it's air but
they don't concern themselves about it?"
Alo peered at him closely.
He forced the thought to continue. It resisted; something in his mind
was ridiculing it even before it was fully formed, but he snagged the
thought and dragged it upward, to the surface. "Well, what I was thinking
was, maybe the airfish stay in the air because they think they can stay there.
Tiki, you said that conditions here are sensitive to what people think, or at
least to their states of mind, right? Isn't that what you said?"
"So you think—" interrupted Alo.
Panglor raised a finger to silence her.

"Indeed," said Tiki. "The people who couldn't feel at home have
always had more trouble and disappeared sooner than the others."
"And we found our way back to the ship without any trouble last time,
right?" Panglor looked at Alo. She nodded, her mouth open. "And these
airfish—they stay in the air, and look like they love it. Maybe they do think
it's water, or maybe they know it's not but they don't care because they want
to float in the air. They want to float in the air."
He rose and stared at the Cur, standing silent against the sky. "Maybe
we can do that. Maybe we can fly if we just think like airfish. Maybe if we
want to get off this planet, we can."
Tiki clicked his lips thoughtfully. Alo stood beside him. "But, Pangly,
why did we come here in the first place? We didn't want to," she said. "And
those crewmen want to leave, but they haven't."
Panglor nodded. "Right." He looked around to see where LePiep had
gotten to. She was at his feet, peering up at him in response to his growing
excitement. "Right," he repeated, picking her up. "They haven't. But they
don't know how to. They don't know how to think around here at all. Look
at them—it's pathetic. They're breaking down." A grin twitched to his lips.
It was a perversely good feeling to be the sane one, watching the others
break down. Except for Jeeb, who had treated him well when nobody else
had.
"Look, you two," he said.
"Alo," supplied Alo. "And Tiki."
"Yeh," he said impatiently. "I think we can get the old bucket off this
planet, even if it is a real planet, which I don't think it is. We could go check
out the foreshortening station and then, maybe, go . . . home." He ended on
a funny note. Well, they'd go back to D3, anyway, whether or not they chose
to call it home.
"Why?" said Alo. She put both hands on her hips and tilted her head
back, peering at him through several clinging locks of hair. "Why do you
want to?" Her eyes probed his.
Panglor stroked LePiep, who was muttering reassuringly. He opened
his mouth. Finally he forced words out. "We don't want to stay trapped here,
do we?" He shook his head and tried again. "We should help the others get
off, I think." His voice quivered. "It's partly my fault they're here." He
blinked and shook his head again.

"Boy," said Alo quietly, brushing the hair from her face. "Never
thought I'd see the day." Her voice was strained, and it was difficult to tell
whether she was approving or disapproving. "You'll be in big trouble if you
go back."
Panglor cleared his throat. Was the little-girl Alo talking or the not-so-
little girl? "Well," he said, considering the possibilities. "We'll be bringing a
live Kili with us—Tiki, you'll come, won't you? And we'll bring important
information back. About the zone here, and the foreshortening hazard. After
all—" He stopped and clucked his tongue.
"What?" said Alo.
"I would be delighted to go with you," Tiki piped up in a grave voice.
"We're in the middle of something important here," Panglor said, his
voice stretched tight. "I don't know how it happened, but here we are. Who
knows what could come of it? Suppose we can fly in this zone, this field.
Tiki, you said you went to other worlds like this one. Suppose we could do
that in our ships, and control it somehow. Like flying by a daydream. Only
it'd be real." He puckered his lips and for a moment was lost in thought,
aware only of LePiep's gentle empathic touch.
A touch of another kind brought him back to the present. Alo kissed
him on the cheek and said, "Let's go try, then."
"Hoop," LePiep said approvingly. Tiki moved forward to join them.
Panglor looked from one to another, not quite believing that he had
convinced them. Then he nodded, and they moved off quickly.
* * *
The distance to The Fighting Cur was short, and they crossed it
without attracting attention from Deerfield. Panglor didn't want to have to
explain what they were doing—he would certainly be thought crazy, and be
restrained—so he was hoping that they could at least make a start without
being observed. They strolled close to the ship and Panglor noted that a
promontory once more ran up to the ship's entry port. They hurried up the
incline. There were shouts from across the plain, and several Deerfield
crewmen raced after them, brandishing weapons.
"Inside!" Panglor shouted. He pushed LePiep into Alo's arms and
shoved her toward the airlock with Tiki. He waited at the port to see what
the crewmen would do. "Stay back!" he shouted, cupping his hands to his
mouth. "We're going—to try—to take off! We're not—trying—to escape!"

He looked back to be sure that Alo and Tiki were safe inside, and found
them standing right behind him. "What are you doing?" he exploded. "Get
inside—"
"Halt there, you!" The men were racing up the promontory now. One
of them knelt to the side and took aim.
"Hold it!" Panglor yelled, waving. "Take a message to Jeeb! Tell him
—"
"He sent us to make sure you didn't try anything," the other crewman
called.
"Tell him, please," said Panglor, lowering his voice, "that we think we
know how to lift off, but we don't want to risk anyone else until we've tried
it. If it works, we'll come back for all of you. Tell him that." He backed
toward the airlock.
"Jeeb said—"
"If it works, we'll be back! Now stand clear!"
The leading man squinted, toying with his weapon. "Jeeb told us not to
—"
Panglor slammed the hatch and locked it from the inside. "Let's go," he
grunted, herding Alo and Tiki through the inner airlock door. They hurried
to the control bay.
LePiep leaped high onto the console, while Panglor tried to figure out
where everyone should sit. There were only two real couches, and he
needed to be in one of them. "Alo. No—Tiki. Ah—" He looked around. He
started pushing boxes and loose clothes beside the second pilot's couch,
then let Alo finish, since she was doing a better job of it, anyway. "Here.
Make a comfortable place to sit. If the grav control works, it won't matter.
And if it doesn't work—well, we'll all be squashed flat."
"Indeed," said Tiki. "I should sit here, since I'll be of little help in
operating the craft."
Panglor hesitated. Tiki was probably the frailest of them, physically—
but Alo should be at the controls, too. "Okay," he said. "Peeps, you're with
Tiki." The ou-ralot whistled and hopped into the Kili's arms.
Finally Panglor started powering up the ship. The viewscreen produced
an outside view. The Vikken crewmen were huddled at some distance from
the ship, but not at what Panglor would have called a clear distance. He

cursed mildly, but there was nothing he could do except hope that the planet
with its bag of tricks would protect them.
When the ship's console was clear, he sank back and sighed. He looked
at the viewscreen and looked back at the console. He twiddled the
viewscreen to show the sky, now a pastel green. He looked at the console.
"What are you going to do?" asked Alo.
"I'm going to think," he replied.
For some minutes, he did exactly that and nothing else. Alo and Tiki
waited silently, as he worked at clearing extraneous thoughts, so that he
could concentrate on those he wanted. The thoughts returned relentlessly,
however, so he stopped trying actively to rid himself of them. He simply
ignored them and concentrated on his mood, on twisting the general flow of
his thoughts to the frame he wanted. LePiep's silent empathy relaxed him,
coaxed him. Thoughts of Alo and Tiki, beside him, went by; memory of Alo
undressed in his cabin (No—let that one go!); the insertion under fire from
Grakoff-Garikoff. No—none of that was going to help. Wasn't what he
wanted. He wanted to think of the airfish: the quiet, musing creatures
drifting at will across the surface of the ponds. Perhaps something existed
beneath the surface of those ponds that they didn't wish to see (but no, that's
not important, not interesting now, let it slide); he thought of the airfish, fat
ones and skinny ones, with funny-looking fins, with their certainty that they
could not fall. Perhaps if they knew they should fall they would, and so
would die. But they did not know they should; they knew they were at
home drifting in the air, communing with the floating aerial crystals, or
simply hovering and exploring.
The airfish were at home in the air, as The Fighting Cur was at home
in space. Their world, their existence was to drift above a vaporous surface,
and so was the Cur's proper existence above the clouds and vapors of the
planetary atmosphere. The Cur should always remain above the
atmosphere, no closer than a wide black interval. Black space, carrying in
its vastness both the bulging mass of the planet and the trivial mass of the
orbiting ship. The ship could reach space. Of course; that was where it
belonged, where it lived. He had only to turn on the drivers, here, and they
would be lofted into space.
He didn't touch the driver control, though. There was a feeling of
discontinuity . . .

. . . and the viewscreen was black, except for the stars. He blinked, and
touched the viewer controls—and there, turning slowly beneath them, was
the partially misted orange ball that was the planet. They were in orbit. In
space. "Ulg—" he said. He cleared his throat. His vocal cords refused to
work. Finally he gestured to Alo, who was gasping beside him, to check
things in the sensor-fringe. "Find out where we are," he whispered.
With Alo moving around checking instruments, Panglor squinting at
the screen and readying the driver-controls, LePiep whistling and hooting
and radiating pleasure, and Tiki peering gravely over everyone's shoulders,
things were confusing for a while. Then Alo said, "Looks like we're in orbit,
Pinglo, but we won't be for long, if you don't give us some velocity."
Panglor's voice returned. "Want to be more specific?" Alo grunted and
did some things at her board, then fed the results directly to his. "Right," he
said, and started the sequencer. The ship yawed a little and pitched up, and
the drivers kicked on, jarring, until the grav control caught up.
He grinned in satisfaction. Then a thought occurred, and he frowned.
"How reliable were those figures you gave me?"
Alo looked down her nose. "What's that supposed to mean?"
"I mean, how consistent were the different readings? Were they in
agreement, or did you tinker an average?"
"Oh. Well, actually—" she said, and then she got up and left the
control room.
Panglor roared, "Where the hell are you going?" He jumped up—but
realized he couldn't leave the console. "What are you doing?" he shouted.
He turned to Tiki. "What is she doing?" Tiki looked mystified.
Alo came back a minute later, carrying three meal-packs and three
brew-packets. "Anybody hungry?" She seemed to notice just then that
Panglor was choking on his tongue, and she added, "They were all on the
beam. The readings, I mean. Seems like we're in the clear, instruments-
wise." With a grin, she settled between them and snapped her brew-packet.
Panglor made exasperated sucking noises against his teeth, then
hmphed and opened his meal-pack. The first bite he gave to LePiep. She
beamed and gulped it. "First thing we got to do," he said with his mouth
full, "is find that station." He glanced over the board and nodded. The
drivers were running hot and smooth, and the Cur already had a stable orbit
—contingent, presumably, on the states of mind of the Cur's inhabitants.

"Wonder how far out this thing's influence reaches," he mused. He choked,
suddenly, with food in his windpipe.
Alo thumped him on the back. "Leave it to me. I'll have that course for
you in a couple of minutes."
Tiki said something, which Panglor understood as, "Borka drig limits .
. . ulu zone thesla . . . others blik."
He frowned. "Tiki, what's wrong?"
"We must be at the limits of the influence right now," Alo said
thoughtfully. "We won't be able to understand him at all when we're outside
of it—not unless we learn his language."
"Gah," muttered Panglor. "You any good with languages?"
Alo shrugged and patted Tiki on the arm. The Kili's eyes were sharply
crossed. "We'll be okay, I guess. Maybe Tiki will be able to figure out ours."
Well, Panglor thought, at least we have a handy warning system. "Let's
get that fix on the station, hah?" he said to Alo.
They worked for thirty-five minutes, then spotted the station emerging
from the nightside limb of the planet, a bright gleam that stood out among
the stars. Alo got a passive-sensor track on it, then double checked on
active. "It's out over a hundred thousand," she said, puckering and blowing
through her lips. She squinted at Panglor, and at Tiki. "You want to go back
now for your friends? You did promise, if we made it off all right."
"Huh? Go back?" Panglor said. "Oh." He mulled. He didn't much want
to turn right around—not yet, at least. He switched on the com and tried to
contact Deerfield. No success. "Well, hell," he said, switching the com off,
"what's the point in going back till we've checked out the foreshortening
system? What good would it do?" Alo shrugged; Tiki just bowed in
puzzlement. "Okay, then—let's get a course to the station."
Once they had a program worked out for reaching the higher orbit of
the station, they settled back to pass the time. They expected to reach the
station in twenty hours. Panglor had trouble relaxing, though; the whole
situation surrounding the station bothered him. Finally he voiced his
confusion. "You know, I wonder where this station was originally, anyway.
If the discontinuity existed then, why didn't they know anything about it?"
Alo plucked at her lip. "Seems to me," she said—and stopped and
leaned forward to key a question into the library computer. Reading the
results, she nodded. "Yah, the station used to be in a solar orbit a couple of

hundred million kilometers farther in. The planet, of course, wasn't known
at all, mainly because it's not a planet. I expect it was probably far enough
away from the waystation not to be detected, but close enough to snare an
occasional ship that got flung in its direction. Depending on what orbit or
position it held relative to the sun, the trajectory angles of the ships that
didn't make it would have seemed pretty random as the waystation moved
around the sun."
Panglor frowned more deeply. "How many ships did they lose?"
Shrugging, Alo said, "Enough, over the long run, that people got
spooked, and the system was getting a bad reputation. My teacher Urula
used to say that they were crazy, superstitious fools—but I guess they
weren't, after all. So when they talked about building the D3 station—and
D1 was getting pretty old, anyway—a lot of people said, as long as we're
going to put a new station over there, and it can do the work of this station,
too, well, let's just close down and get the hell out of here before anything
weirder happens. And that's what they did. Most of them moved to D3, but
some of them went to other places. Took a couple of years to clear the
whole population out."
Panglor chewed his lip. "And since then, the station has been drawn
out toward the discontinuity, or the discontinuity has moved closer to the
station."
"Maybe both," said Alo.
Panglor shook his head, thinking that if anyone had told him all this a
month ago, he'd have laughed in the idiot's face.
* * *
Panglor napped a while, and later took the watch. Alo curled up in the
second pilot couch. "Pangly," she said, "do you still mean to go back for the
others?" She cradled her head in her right arm and looked down at the floor.
She looked drowsily thoughtful and, Panglor thought, vulnerable. He stirred
uneasily. How attached was he growing to this girl . . . or woman?
"What do you figure?" he said, locking and unlocking the fingers of
both hands.
"Don't want to figure," she mumbled. "Just want to know."
He gestured awkwardly. "Well, we said we would."
Alo nodded sleepily. Her mussed hair obscured her face. "Think we
can land and take off from that place twice?"

"Sure," he said huskily. He cleared his throat. The truth was, he wasn't
all that sure—and he was even less sure that there was a way to get
Deerfield out of the zone.
Alo murmured, "Okay," and then she was asleep.
Panglor felt LePiep's gentle, encouraging touch; she was following
him with her eyes, from Tiki's lap. The Kili was completely relaxed. "Burr-
illl," he said, smiling in imitation of the human expression. Panglor
wondered if LePiep had conveyed to him, somehow, what had transpired.
Certainly, at least, she had touched Tiki with feelings of peace reflecting
Panglor's. Yeah, they'd be going back down to the planet.
* * *
Right on schedule, the station grew from a twinkling bit of silver to a
respectable, if silent-looking, space station. It was stable, not tumbling;
clearly some systems were still functioning on board. Panglor switched on
the com and instructed Alo to monitor it, in the unlikely event that they
were challenged by a guardian, either human or robot.
They circled the station, inspecting. The structure appeared intact; at
least, there was no external damage. Panglor brought the Cur to the most
centrally located docking port and stopped just shy of the hangar doors.
"How are we going to get inside?" Alo said. He glanced at her ruefully. He
had just thought of the same question, but he hadn't thought of an answer
yet. Normally there would be crews inside to operate the docking facilities.
"Must be a way," Alo said. "Figure they left things in case they wanted
to return some day. So how would they plan on doing it?"
"Go over in a suit, probably," said Panglor. "We only have the one suit,
though. I'd better go see if I can get in through a personnel lock, and then
try to find the main controls."
"You mean leave me to fly the ship in?" asked Alo with a twinkle in
her eye.
Panglor pushed a thumb back into the corner of his mouth. His face
grew warm as he hesitated. "Well, we probably should check out everything
we can, first, to see if there's some automatic system on standby."
They tried. Alo worked the com, transmitting standard approach
activation codes, while Panglor searched visually for a manual activator.
Neither effort was successful. Finally Panglor, swallowing his reluctance,

put Alo at the maneuvering controls and went to the airlock to suit up. He
called her through his helmet-com and said, "Okay. You ready there, kid?"
"Say 'kid' one more time and I'll crash this thing," Alo answered
gravely.
"Right. Sorry. If you're set, I'm going outside now." He opened the
airlock, hesitated at the lip, and stepped off. He floated weightless, beyond
the ship's grav field. He drifted the few meters to the station, worked his
way along its exterior, using the handholds, and peered over the coated
white skin, looking for any kind of mechanism, even for a small crew entry
port. "Don't see a thing," he said. He turned toward the Cur's sensor-fringe,
through which he assumed Alo was watching.
"Hold it a minute," said Alo, her voice scratchy through the com.
"What for?"
There was a pause, then Alo said, "Move about ten meters toward the
stern, and then wait. Stay close to the ship."
"Why?" he asked, but did as she instructed. Then he faced the sensor-
fringe again. "Is it a secret?"
A blue laser beam blinked from the sensor-fringe, striking a small spot
beside the hangar doors. The beam flickered several times, with varying
time duration and width of focus. The wavelength changed: green, yellow,
red . . . invisible.
The station skin began moving; the hangar door was opening. Panglor
roared, "By damn! How did you find that?" He watched, astonished, as the
bay doors contracted to their limit, exposing an enormous cavern.
"Want to come back aboard?"
Panglor entered the airlock. "You going to tell me?" he asked over the
com, as he pulled off the silversuit.
He stalked to the bridge. "Well?"
Alo grinned and winked at Tiki. "I spotted that receptor when you
went by it. Figured that it would only respond to coherent light, so it was
just a matter of finding the right frequency. Want to take the ship in? I have
it lined up." Panglor blinked. She had turned the ship expertly, with its nose
pointed straight into the hangar. LePiep was curled drowsily atop the
console, as though nothing at all had been going on.
He made a throaty sound. "Think you can handle it?"
Grinning lopsidedly, Alo touched the controls and moved the ship in.

The hangar was an enormous deserted warehouse, large enough to
hold perhaps six vessels the size of Deerfield. That made it puny compared
to facilities at D3, but still awesome and ghostly looking from the Cur's tiny
control bay. A few scattered light panels glowed along the walls, chasing
back the inky darkness. Alo stopped the ship dead in the gloomy cavern.
The question: Was there a functioning airlock docking port? If not, they still
faced the problem of getting into the station proper without suits, since the
hangar was in vacuum. Using the nightscope, they inspected the hangar
walls. There were a number of crossmembers and cargo-access bridges and
cranes. Many of the shapes were confusing and hard to identify in the
ghostly image.
"Over there," Panglor said, pointing. A fat cylindrical structure
protruded from the wall. It was a docking port with a funny corrugated ring
at its end. "See if you can mate her up." He no longer doubted that she
could, but it would be a tricky maneuver in this hulking old ship.
Alo encountered problems jockeying sideways, but eventually she had
the Cur's airlock aligned perfectly with the docking adaptor. "There might
be an automatic system here, or there might not be," Panglor said. Nodding,
Alo nudged the ship sideways and made contact. Nothing happened. She
flashed the laser, hitting several spots that looked like receptors on the wall.
Nothing happened. Then she applied force, snubbing the ship, not too hard,
against the docking port. The corrugated endpiece suddenly gave way and
conformed like soft putty to the Cur's airlock. The ship stayed in place
when she cut the driver; something else was now holding it.
She turned and bowed. "Not bad," Panglor admitted. "I'll go check the
passage."
He resuited and passed cautiously from the airlock into the mating
tunnel. The tunnel was clear and lighted and, best of all, pressurized with
safe-testing air. He cracked his helmet seal and took a breath. Stale, but
breathable. Returning to the airlock, he unsuited and dressed again. "Seems
fine," he called with a surge of excitement. Exploring a long-deserted space
station appealed to his sense of adventure.
Alo and Tiki joined him, bringing LePiep. Alo sighed when they
entered the station proper. "Let's do this fast, okay?" she said. "This reminds
me too much of D3."
Deflated, Panglor shrugged and moved ahead, gesturing for the others
to follow.

* * *
For several hours, they roamed through the engineering and control
sections of the station. A fine, almost oily layer of dust coated everything.
Many of the station's systems had been left operational; the vital core
systems, such as life-support and electrical power, were running at a
minimal automatic level, powered by sunlight collectors. The systems
possessed a degree of self-repair capability, but generally the machinery
still running was simply of long-life design, and had been running
untouched since the station was closed half a century ago.
The control room for the foreshortening field generators they found,
finally, three levels up from the main engineering deck. Panglor and Alo
examined the instrument panels carefully. Tiki stood nearby, keeping watch
on LePiep; apparently he knew nothing of such technical matters. After a
while, Panglor began to feel that he and Alo didn't, either. The
foreshortening field systems were on, according to the instrument consoles
—including both the collapsing-field and capture-field generators. But the
collapsing-field was nowhere in evidence. Panglor was trying to puzzle out
why this might be so, while Alo worked over some of the main panels to
look for a malfunction.
"Now, we know the capture-field's working all right," he said. "And
the relays to the collapsing-field are all closed, and the telemetry says
there's power going through—but we don't know how much power the
thing takes. We know we've got some solar collectors in solar orbit, so that's
where the juice is coming from." He clacked his teeth together and picked
up the ou-ralot. "What do you think. Peep?"
"Hluuu," LePiep mourned, wiggling in his arms. Her eyes turned wet.
"Pangly, check the capacitance circuit for me on the third panel?"
asked Alo, from behind a bank of gear.
Panglor sucked against his teeth and did as she asked. He was
impressed by the technical checks she was running—no question about that
—but he didn't think it was the way to find the problem. Something told
him it would have to be reasoned out. "What'd you find?" he grunted.
"It's okay," said Alo quietly.
"Trouble is, too much of this outfit is scattered across half the solar
system, and the station isn't even in the same orbit it used to be in.
Collectors, power relays, generators—we can't get at most of it."

"It's all metered and if we just check through the metering systems, we
ought to find the problem," came Alo's voice. She had moved farther down.
"But we don't know the values. How much power is this thing
supposed to pull, anyway?"
Alo's voice came back: "We know what the capture-field pulls, right?
And it works."
"Yeah, but do they both draw the same?"
For a moment, she didn't answer. Then she reappeared, disheveled and
sweaty. "Don't they?" she demanded.
He thought a moment. "Not sure," he admitted. "It seems to me, maybe
they don't. I think maybe the collapsing-field draws more, does more of the
work." He scratched his head. "Actually, I think it draws a lot more."
"We're in trouble then. There's no more power coming out of the solar
units. That's all there is."
They stared at each other. Alo's eyes were sharp and angry. "You mean
there's no way to up the power?" he asked.
She tugged at her hair, which was becoming very ratty. "There must be
a way."
He thought about it, and shook his head. "No."
"There must be."
He thought again, and shook his head again. "I don't think so."
Alo fumed. She curled her lip and went back to the panels. For two
more hours she worked. Panglor sometimes worked with her and sometimes
stood with Tiki, who looked dejectedly cross-eyed. Alo became more and
more frustrated. Finally she barked at Panglor, who had taken a break to
play with LePiep. "You know, maybe if you helped a little instead of doing
that, we'd get this thing fixed, you know!"
Panglor stopped what he was doing, which was picking up LePiep by
her front paws. He fixed Alo with a hard gaze. The ou-ralot suddenly
became still, her emanations cold. "I don't think so," he said. He patted
LePiep to reassure her and sat down, defeated, beside Tiki.
Alo blinked several times. Then she twisted around and worked at the
panels again, glaring. Every muscle in her small body was trembling. Ten
minutes later she returned and faced them. She looked more at Tiki than at
Panglor. "There's no way to make it work. I'm sure now," she said. Her face
was as cold as stone.

"Yah," said Panglor.
"We're stuck here. We can't go back."
"Yah."

OceanofPDF.com

Chapter 12
Depression hung like a fog in the room. Tiki sat silent, erect, eyes
crossed so sharply he must have been looking sideways; his brow pulsed
nervously. Alo fumed at the floor. Her hair hung limp over her eyes, and her
posture suggested a marathoner who had fallen lame just short of the finish.
Her eyes smoldered, giving off occasional glints of anger through the
curtain of hair. LePiep lay in Panglor's lap, her head hanging over his knee
in dejection; every minute or so she sighed loudly.
Panglor felt as though his heart had dropped out of his chest. The
station had been their last hope; now they had no hope. They could stay
here, or they could go back to the planet. He had made a promise to
Jeebering. But he couldn't think about that now; he couldn't think about
anything. He sat staring through half-lidded eyes. Waves of depression from
the others washed over him. He stared at the floor, at the tracks they had left
in the dust.
"God damn," he muttered, later, when he had more energy.
"Kervill mondometzo-brrrr, snik snik, kaffledorf," said Tiki, looking
from Alo to Panglor. "Muck muck." Panglor looked at him oddly. "Filge-
fick," concluded Tiki.
"Do you have any idea what he's saying?" Panglor said to Alo.
"I don't have any idea why we're here!" Alo muttered coldly. "You and
your going after that ship!"
"What do you mean?" he said slowly.
"I mean, you didn't have to do it. You let those criminals push you
around, and now here we are because of it." Her eyes turned bright and
steely behind the tangle of hair.
Panglor felt a flash of anger. He tried to suppress it, but the feelings
boiled up anyway. How could this girl—this stowaway!—say that, when
she was the one who had no business even being on the Cur in the first
place? "Listen!" he growled. "No one asked you to come along, you know!"
Alo jumped up and glared. "And where would you have been without
me copiloting?"
Blood rushed in his ears. "Where am I now!" he said savagely.

"Why you—!" Alo cried in fury. "You—you bastard!" Her hair
bounced as she yelled, shaking her fist. "I'm not going to help you any more
—you can do it yourself! See how far you get!" Whirling, she stormed out
of the control room. Her footsteps echoed down the corridor and faded.
"Krilll b-dartz!" Tiki said tremulously. His eyes jumped spastically,
and his body went rigid as a statue.
Bah! thought Panglor. She'll be back.
LePiep bounded from his lap and streaked across the room to the
doorway where Alo had disappeared. "Hyo-lo-lo!" she cried, peering down
the corridor. She stood there for several minutes, then slowly walked back
to Panglor, head low, radiating severe dismay. She crouched silently at his
feet.
Christ, he thought.
And the trouble was, she was right. He was to blame for everything
that had gone wrong—for their coming to the D1 system in the first place,
for Deerfield's coming along after them, for their failure to find a way
home. He felt a burning in his chest as he thought about it. What was he
supposed to do now, for chrissake?
He waited, not moving, until the iron band around his lungs eased its
grip. He became acutely aware of the whisper of induction-circulated air.
Finally he sighed. "Tiki—want to come look for her? For Alo?"
"Snirrveff," answered the Kili, blinking in response to Alo's name.
LePiep responded, too; she jumped into Panglor's lap, then sprang up and
out, spreading her wings, and swept in a tight circle around the room. She
landed at his feet, then jumped into his arms again, emoting happily.
They explored the corridor Alo had taken, calling her name, but
hearing only their own echoes. They followed the corridor around a bend,
through two large archways, and into a high-ceilinged lobby fifty meters
long and twenty wide, lighted gloomily by scattered squares on the walls.
The chamber was barren. Corridors branched off in every direction except
to the right, and on that side a long staircase, perhaps provided for
architectural novelty, ascended to a balcony. Panglor thought a moment,
then led the way up the staircase. It seemed the sort of direction Alo would
take.
The balcony proved to be a deep, dark area that might once have been
a lounge or hearth. Panglor squinted into the gloom. Finally he hollered,

"God damn it Alo! Where are you?" His words reverberated in the space.
Alo's voice returned, faintly. "Over here." He turned in annoyance,
trying to decide where "here" was, and finally spotted her, standing at the
far end of the lounge. LePiep perked up in his arms. Panglor led the way
over.
"What are you doing?' he asked as he approached, but the answer was
obvious. She was standing before a wide viewport, looking out into space
and downward at the bright ochre-brown crescent of the planet. Panglor
said nothing more. He gazed at the sight—at the enormous calico crescent
grinning in the darkness. He could not quite think of it as a planet, and yet
could not envision it as anything but. It was their zone of discontinuity, their
locus of wavefront aberrations, their frayed hole in the fabric of what they
were accustomed to thinking of as reality.
The sight instilled a peculiar awe. Something down there, some set of
conditions, had responded to his thought and to his will. How many times in
his life had that happened?
But there were people down there, trapped, who were his
responsibility.
"Mus-nu choka-loka mmmffsss," muttered Tiki.
"We're stuck," Alo said. "Might as well go back down. No point in
staying here." She cleared her throat noisily, then lifted LePiep from
Panglor's arms.
Panglor grunted. The view, even without her anger, gave him pains—
straight in the chest, like the stab of a knife. LePiep grumbled, sweeping
him worriedly with her eyes, sharing his distress. His guilt.
He suffered silently, not letting it reach his face. He felt dizzy, felt
LePiep's silent waves of empathy soothing the pain, lessening it, and yet
making him dizzier still with confusion. The view of outer space seemed to
sway drunkenly, and his thoughts whirled, revolving about the edges of his
vision, spinning and falling forward into the black hole of all the worlds and
possibilities he had ever lost.
And the idea struck him broadside, smashing the pain into splinters.
LePiep yipped audibly, encouraging him. "My God, why not?" he muttered
foggily, and the pain vanished in a rush of exhilaration. The notion bloomed
full in his mind—
"Hey!" he said.

Tiki turned at once. Alo rolled her eyes toward him and restrained the
excited ou-ralot.
"Why didn't I think of it before?" Panglor cried. He put both hands
against the glass and leaned forward and stared out into space, down at the
strange world whose nightside was curiously distorted to his vision, as
though cradled not quite correctly by the glowing crescent of dayside.
"Yeah," he said softly, convinced now because his idea was so logical it
hurt, and so outlandish he scarcely dared to speak it.
"Yeah, what?" Alo said impatiently. LePiep was purring with
excitement.
"Why not use the planet?" he said, his face to the glass. "The zone, I
mean. If that thing out there can reach ships in foreshortening and grab
them and pull them out like a capture-field—well, maybe it can work the
other way, too. Maybe it can put them into foreshortening."
"Are you crazy?"
"Well, why not?" Panglor said, turning to face her. "We got off the
planet right? The zone responded to our thoughts, our frame of mind, I don't
know what."
"Yah," said Alo. "Tiki said the behavior of things changed according to
stresses and moods."
"Right. So when we wanted to lift from the planet, it worked. Before
that, it brought us to a safe landing. We assume it will bring us to a safe
landing again. So why not assume it could do more?"
"Never worked for anyone else, did it?"
"Naw, probably not—but who knows? Probably no one knew how to
do it. Probably never even occurred to anyone else. The poor sons of
bitches just go crazy down there."
Tiki rotated his eyes in a circle. "Fffessss-llbrinth," he whispered.
Panglor squinted, wishing that he could communicate with the Kili.
Then he shrugged and looked back at Alo. "Sure—they're all going crazy. It
would never cross their minds that they could drive their ship right through
the zone into foreshortening."
Alo opened her mouth slowly. "Drive through?" She clawed at her
hair. "Why not just think—or whatever—our way into foreshortening?"
"Well, we need velocity, of course."

"Yeah." Alo nodded, thinking. "The trouble is—if it didn't work, we'd
be splattered all over down there, wouldn't we?" Her eyes flickered and
danced between her friends. "Well—wouldn't we?"
That was hard to argue with; but for Panglor's idea to work, they
would need a high velocity for the plunge into foreshortening. A collapsing-
field worked by compressing the interstellar space fabric in a shockwave
surrounding the ship—effectively shortening the distance the ship traversed
between stars. But even compressed, the distances were so vast that high
entering velocities were required, on the order of .01c. So they had little
choice; if they were going to try, they would have to make a very fast dive
directly into the zone. He gestured helplessly. "What have we got to lose?"
Alo's eyes softened, and she shrugged. "Okay. I'm in. How about
Tiki?"
The Kili was smiling blissfully. Whether that was some Kili
expression, or Tiki's own translation to the human, Panglor couldn't guess.
"I think we'd better wait until he understands us again, when we go back
down."
"Hyolp!" said LePiep. She jumped from Alo's grasp into the arms of a
startled Tiki. She beamed happily, nuzzling the Kili, who bobbed sideways
in evident contentment.
"We're still going back for them, then?" said Alo.
"Said we would. Besides what do you think they'd say to us back at D3
if we came back alone?"
Alo made a noise with her tongue. "Okay. What are we waiting for?"
They walked back through the empty halls. Eventually they made their
way back to the hangar and The Fighting Cur. They boarded, sealed the
airlock, and made ready to depart. Panglor took the controls and applied
thrust. The ship vibrated, but failed to move.
"Pangly, we're stuck to the hatch," Alo said.
Panglor cursed. He shut off the drivers and stared at the outside of the
hatch structure in the viewscreen. "Any ideas, kiddo?" he said, finally.
"Naw," said Alo, squinting at the screen. She went to the laser control
and beamed various frequencies at likely looking targets. That effort was
futile.
Muttering, Panglor returned to the airlock to suit up again. He was
getting tired of this, because when he changed clothes he remembered how

much he was beginning to stink. Helmeted, silversuit-field on, he went back
into the docking tunnel and looked for a manual release switch. He found a
panel but no controls. He ripped off the cover and scrutinized the circuitry.
With more intuition than certainty, he tripped several relays with the
lightbeam of his unitool. At the end of the passage, a dark ring appeared as
the ship separated slowly from the docking port. Hhmphing, he pocketed
the unitool and leaped easily into the Cur's airlock.
When he was dressed again, he hurried back up to the bridge. Alo was
already moving the ship out of the station.
* * *
The return trip took half a day, ship's time. They took turns using the
mistshower, and rested. Their destination grew steadily as they dropped
toward it, a great ochre-red ball. Panglor gazed at the "planet" and tried to
envision it as nothing more than an elaborate collapsing-field placed here
by the fates—a curious hole in space, a threadbare spot in the fabric of the
continuum that they could fall through if they chose.
"What're you thinking, Pangly?"
He clicked his teeth. "About how crazy this is, that thing out there. It's
demented. The whole idea is demented, the thought that anyone could fly
through that and come out the other side in foreshortening. Everything that
happens near this thing is demented, and I think we're demented, too."
Alo hoisted herself up onto one of the front consoles. She looked a lot
better now—scrubbed and clean, with her hair combed. She was wearing
one of Panglor's shirts, with the sleeves rolled up, and it hung on her like an
enormous bag. Panglor nodded. "Yeh. Demented. That's why I'm naming
the place right now. Planet or not, it needs a name. It deserves one."
"Yeah?"
" 'Dementia.' That's what I'm calling it." Rising, extending both hands
toward the image in the viewscreen, he bowed. "I dub thee 'Dementia'—you
earned it." He raised his eyes. "What do you think?"
"Pangly," she said, shaking her head, "I'm worried about you. Really, I
am."
There was a scrabbling noise. LePiep poked her head out of her corner
stash of junk and regarded them each in turn, her eyes pulsating, reflecting
their sense of anticipation.
* * *

The landing went much as it had the first time. Alo seemed relaxed and
Panglor tried to pretend that he was. The Cur slipped toward Dementia's
atmosphere with both position and velocity wholly ambiguous. Panglor
kept his hands off the controls and tried to think negligently in terms of safe
landing, and he glanced at Tiki, who appeared nervous. "Don't worry," he
said.
"I don't worry about the landing," said Tiki. "It's what comes after that
I worry about."
"Why? We're going to take off again and try to get back home. We're
going to dive right into the zone."
"That's what I thought," said Tiki, crossing his eyes. "I know one other
—a Daco—who tried that. I never saw him again."
"He probably made it home, then."
"Or he crashed and obliterated himself."
There was a queer, wrenching discontinuity . . . and when it ended, the
Cur was standing upright in a meadow, in easy view of Deerfield.
"I wish you hadn't said that," Panglor said to Tiki. He made a complete
sweep with the viewer. Things had changed. The landscape was greener and
the sky was orange, with a chocolate sun. Stands of exotic trees cropped the
ridges. He hooked a thumb toward the exit. "Let's have a look." He caught
LePiep and led the way, hoping there would be a convenient promontory for
them outside the airlock.
There was. They started down, surveying as they descended. Things
had changed, all right, but not necessarily more than they might have in a
single "night" here. Panglor wondered how much time had passed for the
Deerfield crewmen.
"Hallo there!" he heard—from behind. He turned. One of the Deerfield
men stood in the airlock, where they had just emerged.
"How did you—"
The crewman shimmered like a ghost and faded. Panglor swallowed,
remembering: Dementia. Right. The crewman appeared at the bottom of the
slope. "My God," Panglor said, "I hope they haven't all turned to wraiths
since we left. We'll never be able to get them to stay in the ships." LePiep
muttered uneasily in his arms.
Crossing the meadow to Deerfield they passed a finger of a long,
shallow lake of crystalline water. They could see, moving about in the

water, the shadowy forms of large fish. LePiep craned her neck and
watched them intently. "Uh-oh," Panglor muttered. Had the airfish taken to
the water? That could mean . . . what?
"Maybe they just wanted water for a change," Alo suggested, reading
his thoughts.
"Mmgh!" he grunted. Well, it didn't matter. It was the idea of the
airfish he had to keep in mind; what they did with their own lives didn't
concern him.
Several Deerfield crewmen emerged, wild-eyed, but not hostile. One
of the men appeared not to recognize them, but he was nevertheless very
hospitable, inviting them into the ship. "Is Jeebering around?" Panglor
asked, gazing about.
"Inside, inside—sure," chorused the other two crewmen.
They went in. The ship's interior was gloomy, the passageways musty.
They found Jeebering in the commons, just aft of the bridge. He looked pale
and unwell, and he was staring into a mug of stale moke. He looked up, his
eyes dull. "Hullo," he said. "Where've you been? Has it been a long time?"
Panglor winced at the broken voice. The mental deterioration of these
men was even worse than he had feared. "Don't know how long we've been
gone, your time, Jeeb," he said. "We got to the space station all right. But
we couldn't get the collapsing-field working." He looked closely at
Jeebering, to see if his words had penetrated.
LePiep stepped from his arms onto the table and nosed close to the
officer. "Hyoll?" she muttered.
Jeebering shook his head, but his eyes glimmered with understanding.
Panglor sighed in relief; the man wasn't completely gone. "You tried, hey,
Balef?" Jeebering said. "Well, I give you credit for that. You tried. And you
came back. The captain would appreciate that, if he were conscious. How
long have they been gone, Tregs?"
A crewman emerged from the shadows and saluted solemnly. "Well,
sir, that's hard to say. Some say just a day or two, others say over two
weeks."
"And what do you say?" Jeebering asked, not unkindly. His voice was
tired, but he glanced at the ou-ralot and a smile flickered at his lips.
"I make it about three days," said Tregs. "Sir."

"Jeeb," Panglor said urgently. "I didn't finish. I think we have another
way to get out of here. Without the collapsing-field."
"There is no other way," said Tregs.
"We think we have a way." Panglor glanced at Alo, who gave him a
thumbs-up sign. LePiep rumbled encouragingly.
"Sure. You have a way," Jeebering said, nodding. "Trouble is, I hardly
have any crew left. They're disappearing all over the place."
"I know—we saw some of them."
"Did you see Captain Drak?" Jeebering asked, raising his eyes. "He's
one of the ones who's gone."
Panglor's breath caught in his throat. Jeebering's gaze was haunted.
"Aw—Jeeb—" Panglor said, struggling for words. What could you say to a
man who'd lost his captain, especially when the man probably considered it
your fault?
Jeebering's eyes sparked and hardened as he refocused his attention on
Panglor. "What was your idea, Balef?"
"Right." Panglor coughed. It was one thing to propose something like
this to Alo or Tiki but quite another to say it to Jeebering without sounding
like a madman. "Well—"
Jeebering blinked.
"Well—Tal, we were going to take off again, in both ships this time,
and—and—"
Alo nudged him, with another thumbs-up.
"Right. We're going to dive the ships straight into the planet—the zone
—Dementia, that's what I call it—it's not really a planet. We're going to
dive at insertion velocity, and aim just as though we were making a
foreshortening insertion, and—"
"Boom!" said Jeebering, throwing up both hands. "Get it over with
right away, huh?" He grinned both ways at his crewmen, most of whom
chuckled blackly.
"No, Jeeb—we mean it. We think we can make it work. Use the zone
the way we took off in the Cur." Panglor glanced from one man's eyes to
another's, trying to keep his voice even. LePiep barked mournfully.
Silence enveloped the commons as the Vikken men perceived that
Panglor was serious. He spoke quickly, explaining his idea. In the end, no
one would say that it was impossible, and after the proposal had rolled off

enough tongues, it began to sound like an intriguing notion—a tall-tale
escape from a ludicrous situation.
An all-hands call went out, to return to the ship.
Wandering outside, Panglor felt sure that none of these men had the
slightest inkling of what he proposed to do. He also suspected that if he
succeeded, he would bring home a shipload of madmen. But that was better
than nothing, he supposed. He tried not to think about what he would say to
the authorities at D3, if he ever saw that place again.
Alo, however, had other worries. She pulled him away from the
confusion around the ship. They walked across the grass toward a
blossoming broad-leaf tree. "I don't know what kind of shape this Deerfield
is in," she said, glancing back at the freighter, "but one thing I do know is
that none of those guys is in any condition to pilot. They'll never even get
into orbit, much less pull off the rest of it."
That question had been bothering Panglor, also. "Well," he said,
watching LePiep scamper up into the tree. "I dunno." Suddenly taking Alo
by the hand, he led her under the tree and sat down on the grass. The return
pressure of her hand made him self-conscious; but he shrugged to himself,
thinking, Balef, she's only a girl. A part of his mind was quaking at such
proximity to a female who liked him, even one as familiar as Alo. LePiep,
sensing his confusion, peered down at him from the lowest branch and
chirped.
"Pangly, are you—?"
"What we've got to do," he said, cutting her off because he thought she
might say something about—
"Pangly," she said, looking him in the eye. "You're awfully cute." She
locked her hands behind his neck and leaned forward to kiss him.
"Come on, now!" he cried, lurching evasively. "We have to decide how
we're going to—"
"Coward!" she growled, and quickly planted the kiss on his lips.
LePiep hooted.
Panglor blushed and tried not to focus on the sensation he'd just felt, of
her lips at his, and the pressure of her breasts against his arm, and the light
pleasant smell of her close to him. Instead, he thought about what she'd
seemed like earlier—insolent, arrogant, looking no older than sixteen
(except when . . . she'd been undressed . . . back there in his cabin).

"Listen," he said, shifting his position to hunch forward, cross-legged, over
his knees. She beamed at him. "How are we going to get that ship off? We
can't take them back in the Cur—there's no room unless we put them in the
cargo hold, which might not be such a bad idea."
"So we'd better all go back in Deerfield," Alo said.
"What? No. How can we do that? What about the Cur? We can't leave
her here!"
"Pangly, Pangly!" Alo chuckled. She rubbed his thigh and slapped his
knee. "The Cur is not the only ship in the universe. Why do you care if it
stays here—it's falling apart, anyway. Look." She ticked off on two fingers:
"You and I are the only ones here capable of flying a ship off this place and
doing that bit into foreshortening."
"You?"
"If you can do it, I can," she said with a shrug.
Panglor scrutinized her. "How old are you?" He noticed that her hand
was still on his knee.
"Nineteen, maybe. Twenty. Twenty-five. Who knows? Why?"
"Just wondered. You insulted my ship, and I wanted to know whether
I'd be killing a minor if I squashed you flat."
Alo snorted. "One of us has to fly Deerfield, Pangly, and that'd be me.
Now, you can either leave the Cur here and do it with me, or you can leave
me with all those men, half of whom are psychotic, and bring your precious
ship back yourself."
Panglor thought hard. Obviously he couldn't send her with the
Deerfield crew, and he didn't want to leave her alone with the Cur, either.
But to abandon the Cur would practically be a betrayal. That ship and he
had been through a lot together. But she was right; they would all have to
go in Deerfield. Curling his lip, he said, "Witch. I wouldn't leave you with
those men—it wouldn't be human. To them, I mean."
Alo lunged, knocking him back flat, and was on him in a second.
"Witch, eh?" she howled, sitting on his stomach. "Witch, is it?" She started
thumping his chest. "I'll beat you to a pulp!" Panglor chuckled and grabbed
her arms and rolled her sideways, making her struggle to stay on top. Alo
fought back, grinning, her breasts visible down the front of his oversized
shirt; and suddenly Panglor was getting a terrific erection, which he knew
she noticed at once, because she started twitching her rear. That flustered

him; he hadn't meant to get quite so serious. He held her arms tightly,
giggling, trying to make her stop, and that only increased his arousal.
LePiep swooped down out of the tree, whistling with excitement. The sound
made him lightheaded.
Alo shimmered and vanished. His hands closed on emptiness.
The world went dim, and he felt himself falling, LePiep clutching at
his right arm. The world turned about him in a blur, like the rushing of the
wind, like the wheeling of the stars, like the vast rotation of the galaxies.
Turning . . . falling through an incredible tunnel . . .
Damn! he cried silently. Not now—no!
—and he became aware of voices, human and inhuman, screams and
whistles and clicks and brrrring rasps, and he squinted and thought he saw
a layering in the world as it passed around him, a kind of wide latticework,
glistening strands crossing and crisscrossing all around, with dark
emptiness below him, as though Alo's analogy of a hole in the fabric of
space had come to life around him. Well, he thought dazedly, spinning. Is
this how it ends?
He seemed to be falling down through the hole in the lattice, but
slowly now; he could gather his wits without rushing or panicking. And he
could accept.
His arousal of moments ago—threatening unstoppered emotions—had
that dumped him into this free space?
. . . falling . . .
LePiep comforted him by huddling alertly in his arms. His arousal was
gone now, that was for sure. Perhaps the world would turn solid around him
again, beneath him. But he still heard voices . . .
. . . turning in the lattice, dropping . . .
The ou-ralot perked her head up, radiating recognition, concern.
"Hyoop," she said quietly, straining her neck to see something in the
distance.
"What, Peep, what is it?" Panglor muttered, and his own voice echoed
around him in a vast reverberation. All he could see were shadows against
the gloom, and the pale gleam of lattice strands, and . . . as though through a
window, the figure of a man, a human being, a Deerfield crewman. He
strained to focus. It was Turret. Was he one of the men who had
disappeared?

Panglor took a breath to shout, and then realized that Turret had
already seen them and was in fact struggling to move toward them. LePiep
mewled—and Turret moved more frantically. He looked so small, almost
lost in the vast lattice, a tiny man swimming through nonexistent waters to
reach them, a pathetic creature moving against elements he could not
possibly understand.
The ou-ralot purred, hardly disturbed at all by the transformations
around them, by the disappearance of Alo, of the landscape. Take a hint,
Panglor thought; she knows. And without urgency he decided that really
what he wanted was to move closer to Turret, and perhaps give him aid.
Even as he made the decision, he realized that he was already closer; he was
falling or drifting in the curious streams of this existence.
Turret calmed visibly as they closed upon him, as LePiep's chirping
encouragement washed over both of them. Turret's eyes were blinking
erratically, twitching; but that, too, subsided as Panglor reached out and
seized him by the arm. "My God—" Turret gasped. "I thought we were both
—but are we—?"
"No, we're not," Panglor said, his head pounding but his self-assurance
intact.
"Purrrl," said LePiep, as though to confirm Panglor's sentiments.
Light suddenly flooded the world, and it tilted queerly as the
latticework vanished, and the ground became solid beneath them. Panglor
heard Alo shout: "Pangly!" and then he stumbled and fell to the grass beside
Turret. He was just picking himself up when Alo collided with him, seizing
him in a bearhug, and they tumbled to the ground again with LePiep
scrambling out of the way.
"Pangly!" Alo cried, wiping away tears. "You were gone! What
happened? You disappeared, just like the others! Where did he come from?"
She sat back and looked at Turret, perplexed. She sniffed and rubbed her
eyes.
"I'll explain later," Panglor said weakly, urging them both to their feet.
"I think we were closer to the center of the discontinuity, and I think things
are starting to fall apart here, and I think we'd better get to the ship and be
ready to take off."
Turret took a deep breath. "We're back. He—brought me—back."
"Hrrrrl," said LePiep warningly.

"Yah. Let's get to the ship," Panglor said. Alo took his arm and kept a
cautious eye on Turret as they walked back.
The Deerfield crew was in chaos, but most of them were inside the
ship. Jeebering and Tregs stood near the open port, apparently trying to
make a count of those who had returned and boarded and those who had
vanished like ghosts. "Sir, they're gone for good, I fear," Tregs was saying,
as they walked up.
Jeebering socked a fist into his open hand in frustration. He nodded
unhappily to Panglor, Alo, and Turret. "Four men gone," he said. Then he
noticed Turret. "Wait. Aren't you one of them?" He turned back and forth.
"Wasn't Turret one of the men missing? Where were you?"
Turret shuddered.
Panglor shoved him gently toward the port. "I found him, Jeeb. He was
in trouble. Now look—we're all getting shaky here—"
Jeebering interrupted him. "Captain Drak. You haven't seen him, have
you?"
"Uh—no," Panglor stammered, losing his train of thought. He clucked
somberly; damn it all, the captain was still missing. "Jeeb," he said, "Jeeb,
I've—we've—been thinking about this, about the best way of taking off."
He hesitated, chewing his lip, knowing that it sounded terrible—as though
he were suggesting that they go ahead and leave the captain and the others
behind. But actually, he was suggesting it. What else could they do?
"Jeeb, it looks as though we'll all have to go in your ship, if you don't
mind. And Alo and I should do the piloting, I think—you know, just to
make sure."
"What?" Tregs said, glowering.
Jeebering looked skeptical. "You and Miss—Miss—?"
"Castley. Right. Jeeb—not meaning any disrespect, but you know, we
did this once already—"
"You and Miss Castley."
Panglor nodded, swallowing. He explained what had just happened in
his rescue of Turret, emphasizing the need for the proper state of mind, and
the kind of intuitive control that seemed necessary to influence events in the
discontinuity. Jeebering listened, and smoothed a tic at the corner of his
mouth. "Just as well," he answered. "My men are all damn near crazy,
anyway. Not one of them's competent to fly, that's for sure." Panglor eyed

him, and he added, "Very well, then, Balef—you are First Pilot of Deerfield
until further notice, and you can make use of such assistants as you
choose." He paused broodingly. "We'll have to go without the captain. It's
what he would have ordered—for the crew's safety."
Panglor's breath caught, but he nodded. "If we don't go soon . . . How
are your food supplies?"
"Adequate. Right?" Jeebering turned to Tregs for confirmation. "We're
missing five people. Four? I don't know. We'll leave some supplies for
them, in case they're still alive."
Panglor grunted sympathetically. "Sure. They might show up yet."
Clearly it was possible; but if the men failed to return, it did not necessarily
mean they were dead. They might, perhaps, have moved farther into the
discontinuity or even out of this universe altogether . . . perhaps still living,
still aware. Tiki had traveled to other discontinuities and returned. But how
many others had returned? Waiting here would only serve to put more men
at risk. "Well," Panglor said, "we'd better go pack some gear from our ship."
His voice trembled, filled with a sudden flush of nervousness that he had
not meant to let out of its cage. He cleared his throat and hummed.
Jeebering nodded and turned away.
With Alo, Panglor hurried back to The Fighting Cur. He went through
all the ship's compartments, packing items into his duffel. Alo, meanwhile,
gathered food supplies to bring along. She waited impatiently as he tarried
in the control room, blinking as he took a last look around. Then they went
out through the airlock and he turned and squinted at the ship, tears misting
his eyes. Stupid; it's just a ship. Used to hate the thing. Alo poked him, her
eyes glinting with sympathy. He nodded. Right. He saluted the ship, and
then turned and walked straight away from it.
The sky had darkened to a muddy orange, and the sun was a dancing
yellow ring with a black center. It felt as if a storm were brewing. "Where's
Tiki?" Panglor muttered, looking around. He hadn't seen the Kili in some
time.
"He was with some men over by the lake," Alo said.
They went and looked, but no one was by the lake.
One Deerfield crewman stood at the port; everyone else was in the
ship. "Is Tiki inside?" Panglor asked. The man blinked dreamily. "Tiki,"
Panglor repeated. "The Kili. The alien."

"Oh, him," the man said. "I don't think so."
Alo's eyes filled with anxiety. "We have to find him, Pangly."
Jeebering's voice echoed through the port. "Set, there. Pilot? Let's
make ready for space."
"One minute, Jeeb," Panglor shouted back. "We have to find Tiki." He
moved away from the ship with Alo and began calling. "Tiki! Tiki!" LePiep
twittered nervously as they looked in all directions. Jeebering shouted for
them to hurry. "TIKI!" Panglor called desperately.
"Pangly, he's not coming." Alo was on the verge of tears.
"Damn it, Tiki!" he bellowed. Where could the Kili have gone?
The storm in the sky broke. Torrents of sparkling rain swept across the
meadow toward them, like a shower of liquid jewels. Panglor's heart sank.
"Better get inside, I guess," he said dismally. "Before anything more
happens. I guess we should take off." He chewed his lip, drawing blood.
LePiep huddled miserably against his neck. Despair washed over him.
Alo turned to protest—and then screamed happily. She pointed. There,
in the heart of the "rainstorm," was Tiki—dancing and leaping, appearing
and disappearing, and waving. "What's he doing?" cried Panglor. "He's
waving to us. Isn't he coming?"
Alo pointed again. "The airfish! He's dancing with the airfish!"
Panglor squinted. She was right. The Kili was capering madly, blinking in
and out of existence, dancing around several large airfish that moved lazily
toward the ship. LePiep perked up and watched the strange dance, which
lasted about a minute. Then Tiki vanished—and popped into the air beside
the ship. He bowed, side to side, to Alo and Panglor. The ou-ralot hooted.
But Panglor and Alo smiled uncertainly. Had the Kili decided not to come
with them after all?
Tiki turned, eyes crossed, and spoke to the airfish. "Good-bye!" he
said. The storm and the airfish retreated, leaving behind a pink sky. His eyes
still crossed, Tiki turned back to this human friends. "I'm ready now. I had
to tell my friends that I might not be back."
"You'll be back sometime, I'll bet," Panglor said, through a thick
throat. He didn't know why he had said that, but he was touched by Tiki's
display of affection for the creatures of Dementia.
"Perhaps so. I brought my most important objects." Tiki held up a tiny
satchel. "May we go, then?"

"Hyolp," said LePiep.
* * *
Liftoff in Deerfield differed from their previous experience only in the
degree of confusion. The bridge was a madhouse until Panglor appealed to
Jeebering to clear the room—and to have tranquilizers administered to all of
the crewmen. There was no telling what effect their crazed minds would
have on the liftoff. Panglor felt better once the men had been quieted.
When he and Alo and Tiki were set, and relaxed, and thoughtful, he
switched on the ship's main power. "Look okay?" he asked, watching the
indicators flicker meaninglessly. LePiep peered over the top of the console,
watching him intently.
"Sure," said Alo. The control layout of Deerfield was considerably
more sophisticated than the Cur's, though it was nothing they couldn't
handle. Of course, none of the indicators could be trusted as long as they
were in Dementia's field of influence.
Panglor half closed his eyes. He had to be ready to hit the drivers for
power when the ship returned to space. But for the moment, his object was
to create the proper mind-set for leaving the zone. "All right, kiddo," he said
softly. "Peep, ready for a ride?" He focused wryly on an image of the
spaceship sitting in the meadow, and thought of the meadow disappearing,
leaving only the empty vacuum of space. LePiep warbled contentedly. That
was too easy. He went through it again, deepening the image and
sharpening the focus; he gazed through half-closed eyes at Alo, hoping that
she was formulating similar images. Deerfield: gleaming undamaged ship
full of cargo and men. Powerful under the flaming yellow sun and clay sky,
as strong-willed as airfish floating happily, riding the updrafts and currents
that moved beneath the tricksy veils of the discontinuity. Deerfield, beside
The Fighting Cur, shimmering like a ghost and then no longer there but
somewhere else—the meadow gone, the sheer emptiness of space where the
meadow used to be, and to one side the huge curved surface of the planetary
ball, orange and brown in the light of the distant sun, D1. His thoughts
blurred, and there was a thrill in his gut of dreamy déjà-vu, and a shiver
streaked up his spine . . .
. . . and he blinked, shaking free of the wrench at his thoughts, and he
focused on the multiview scanner. LePiep hooted and another rush went up
his spine. They were in space. "Get me something on that orbit," he said to
Alo. He began checking his own instrumentation, but he couldn't expect

accuracy yet. The ball of the planet was growing visibly. Under the ou-
ralot's eye, he checked the ship's attitude and hit the drivers, then made
adjustments. There was no sensation of acceleration at all. The ship had
excellent grav-control, much better than the Cur's.
"Here you go, sir, Captain sir," Alo said cheerfully, transmitting data to
his screen. "Give it to her hard, or we'll be right back where we started."
"Right," Panglor said, adjusting the thrust vector.
Alo said, "We're starting to get some consistency here. I think we're
moving out of the zone. Orbit's firmed up."
"What's happening?" Jeebering asked.
Panglor looked up in surprise. He had forgotten that Jeebering was on
the bridge. "We're out," he said. "Doing fine. Heading up for a high orbit
now." Jeebering smiled, and Panglor realized that Jeebering had
tranquilized himself, as well as his crew. That was good. He hoped there
was plenty of the stuff left for the dive back down.
For half a day, they drove steadily outward from Dementia.
Twelve hours and seventeen minutes after the start of the outward
climb, Panglor turned the ship and reversed the direction of thrust—first
breaking the speed of their climb, then beginning their dive, slowly, then
faster, at steadily mounting speed dropping straight toward the silent ball
and the stars behind it.
Precision was something of a problem in terms of their insertion
trajectory for D3. They really didn't know what the characteristics of
Dementia's "collapsing-field" would be, assuming it worked at all. Panglor
figured to fly by the seat of his pants in the final insertion, and trust the
quirky effects of Dementia to pull them on line.
Alo, tonguing her teeth thoughtfully, watched the planet growing in the
screen and said, "This has to be the funniest stunt I've ever tried. If it doesn't
work, there won't even be two molecules of us stuck together anymore."
"Brilllicka," said Tiki. He had remained silent throughout the
maneuvers, though he had watched everything with shining eyes. Now he
fiddled for a moment with a small, dumbbell-shaped object he had brought
from his ship, and he said, "Good show. When hit?" His eyes danced.
Panglor arched his eyebrows. Apparently the object was a translating
computer. "Hit?" he said. "You had to say hit? We go through in about three
hours." He tapped his teeth, glanced over the board again, and nodded.

"Hloops!" cheered LePiep, scrabbling around behind the couches. She
radiated a great wave of confidence.
* * *
The three hours passed quickly enough. They ate, but stayed clear of
the ship's commons, because the crewmen were beginning to act strangely
as the tranquilizers wore off. Panglor suggested that Jeebering give the
entire crew another stiff jolt. Jeebering took a look in the commons and the
corridors and gave the order. He took another dose himself, and sat reigning
benignly from the command seat on the bridge.
Alo massaged Panglor's neck muscles as he made final course
adjustments. The sight of Dementia was now awesome and frightening in
the screen, an enormous reddish-orange globe filling a quarter of the sky.
The globe swelled with each passing moment. "Why are you doing that?"
Panglor asked, gradually becoming aware of Alo's fingers moving
pleasantly at the top of his spine.
"Dunno," she said. She went to her own station, touching LePiep
behind the ears on the way and winking at Tiki.
Panglor grunted and remembered the sensation of the fingers, now
absent. It had been nice. He finished the final adjustments and sat back.
"Ready," he said, pressing his lips together. The planet was growing very
fast, as Deerfield drove downward, and the instruments were beginning to
show aberrations. Tiki stared intently at the screen, Jeebering stared
contentedly at nothing, and Alo caught Panglor's eyes, then looked at the
screen. LePiep whistled excitedly.
"All right, you mother!" Panglor howled, bursting with energy. He
locked his gaze onto the screen. "Whoooeeee!"
The ochre surface mushroomed. Waves of devilish excitement washed
over him and whirled in his heart.
Panglor grinned at the ou-ralot and pictured a hole right in the center
of that image, in the heart of the zone of strangeness. A hole they could
streak through like a bull's-eye. A hole in the planet that wasn't solid—that
wasn't a planet. The hole was a bit too small to see just now, but it was there
all the same. Deerfield accelerated, plummeting, and Panglor smiled,
comfortable in his seat. And thought of the ship dropping through the hole
in space, twisting into foreshortening, streaking down the compressed taffy
of space . . .

. . . and suddenly remembered again the touch of Alo's fingers at his
neck, softly kneading. And remembered her kiss, back on the world, and the
press of certain parts of her body . . . the same body he'd seen . . . no, no,
this wasn't right, these were subconscious thoughts washing up, not what he
had to think of . . . he had to fly the ship, zero on shooting straight through
the bull's-eye. But this was nicer, and nobody was reading his mind except
LePiep in her own way, encouraging him, hooting softly. The thoughts . . .
what was it he wanted to picture? . . . Alo? . . . no . . . yes . . . the soft parts
of Alo, the woman qualities . . . it wasn't really helping, he knew, with that
enormous red area mushrooming in his screen, opening; and the thing was
he had an incredible hard-on at this moment, a bursting erection, thinking . .
. of the woman in the girl, the firm small features in the woman he'd
glimpsed . . . waves of LePiep's excitement reflected his own, agitated him
further . . . the hormones were truly out of control now, rampant, and he
focused on the image of the world closing around him, swallowing him, and
all he could think of was that desire . . . and the world totally surrounding
him and his ship . . . and there was a shift, a discontinuity, and a rift yawned
in the planet, black with spangling stars; and the ship fired through the
opening like lightning, and everything visual went milky, and Panglor
ejaculated just before losing consciousness, his last thought an instant of
embarrassment as LePiep hooted and a ghostly airfish winked at him and
vanished.

OceanofPDF.com

Chapter 13
The first thing he felt was a wave of appreciative pleasure from the ou-
ralot. The second was an abrupt draining of energy, and the third was
dampness at his crotch.
Alo's eyes were on him when he came out of the fog. He blinked, and
had trouble focusing; but not so much trouble he couldn't see Alo's eyes
twinkling. She had followed everything that had happened to the ship, to
the planet—and to him. Flushing, he blinked hard and stared into the
scoopscope—grimly feigning calmness. There was no sweat soaking his
back, no wet spot at his crotch; no. But there were drifting white speckles in
both eyefinders of the scoopscope. The main screens were blank, blue.
They were in foreshortening.
There was an incredible tension, like a vacuum, in his chest. He
reached out to touch LePiep, still crooning happily on the console. "Jeeb!"
he said, trembling, raising his voice without turning. "We're on our way!
Don't know where, for sure, or when we'll get there—but we're on our
way."
"Wonderful," said Jeebering. He sounded pretty stoned. That might be
embarrassing later; it wouldn't do to remind him of it. Ever.
Panglor felt Alo's gaze on him. He glanced at Tiki. The Kili yodeled in
his native tongue, then consulted his device and said, "Good job. Splendid.
Did it work?"
"Yop!" said Alo, cutting off Panglor's reply. "Pangly did it. Of course,
whether he could have done it without me is debatable." Her voice sounded
satisfied and faintly amused. Panglor knew that that may have been his
imagination, but he damn well was not going to look at her face to find out.
There wasn't a lot they could do on the bridge now. Only time would
tell of their ultimate success or failure. Panglor ran through a complete
check of the ship's systems and finally set the emergence warning alarm.
"Jeeb, I think it'd be a good idea to keep the others off the bridge for a
while," he said hesitantly. "Until you're sure they're okay."
Jeebering nodded placidly. He seemed content to sit and survey the
bridge. "You are relieved," he said.

Panglor shrugged, scooped up LePiep, and gestured to Alo and Tiki.
They left the bridge together. Tregs was coming out of the commons, just
outside the bridge, and Panglor stopped him in the passageway. "Are there
some empty cabins?" he asked.
Tregs looked startled. His eyes filled with questions and a hint of
hysteria, but outwardly he was relaxed; the tranquilizer was still working.
He pursed his lips. "Cabins thirteen and fourteen. I don't think any others
—"
"Right," said Panglor. "Thirteen and fourteen." He started to move
away.
Tregs seized his arm. "What happened? Where are we?" The hysteria
was finding a grip in him, after all.
Panglor thought a moment. Let Jeeb tell them, he decided. He nodded.
"Thanks. I think—"
Jeebering's voice broke in, on the shipwide com. "All hands! This is
the bridge—Jeebering in acting command." A long pause followed. Panglor
nudged Alo and Tiki down the passageway, while Tregs listened to the com.
"We are in foreshortening," said Jeebering's voice. "We are bound, we hope,
for Dreznelles Three."
Panglor ignored the rest of the address and searched for their quarters.
They found cabins thirteen and fourteen at the end of the passageway, near
the cargo bulkhead. Panglor hesitated. Which took precedence—giving a
private room to the female or giving it to the guest alien? While he debated,
Alo said, "Tiki ought to have his own room, so I'll stay with you—okay,
Pangly?" She caught his eye soberly.
Panglor nodded. He felt dizzy, with blood thundering in his temples.
Without a word, he went into the second cabin, leaving Alo to show Tiki his
room. He let LePiep down on the bunk. The cabin was small, with a single
sleep bay, a tiny personal alcove—and—what was he thinking, sharing this
with Alo? Unless—
But how could he?
And how could he take time to worry about this, when he had
foreshortening to worry about? They could be on their way to limbo right
now, all of them . . .
But no. He didn't think they were.

His mind was filled with strange and unfamiliar tensions. He was
frightened of foreshortening, and he wasn't. The fear was lessened . . . or
rechanneled . . . because he could not spring his mind loose from her: the
girl, the woman, Alo. Alo. He'd thought he had rationalized her into the
daughter, the sister he had never had. But other pathways kept opening,
sparking new feelings: unsuspected affection, lust, embarrassment, and
boiling among all of those, fear. Something in him resisted involvement
with so sharp-witted and caustic a young woman, who could inflict more
pain than any other woman he had ever known. The tension, the fear, the
desire branched out, and reached down into his body somewhere near the
sternum, and tugged sharply. The girl was intelligent and capable and
commanded his respect. So why such a feeling wrecking his equilibrium
and twisting his desire with pain? The physical desire, the emotional need,
both existed in a swarm of electrons alive in his mind, caught in a bind of
magnetic energies, threatening to collapse like a foreshortening field.
Shaking his head, he tossed his duffel into the sleep bay beside LePiep.
The ou-ralot padded along the edge of the sleep bay, trying to calm him
with waves of reassurance, poking at him with her nose. His chest was so
tight he could hardly breathe. He could faintly hear Alo, talking to Tiki in
the next room. Deciding quickly, he stripped and stepped into the personal
alcove and turned on the mistshower. A fine, vaporous spray billowed
around him, soothing and cleansing him and gradually, after a fashion,
relaxing him. He lingered—and finally, reluctantly, turned off the mist and
turned on the dryer. He felt better.
Alo was sitting in the sleep bay when Panglor came out, adjusting his
clean jumpsuit. He avoided her gaze and looked around the cabin, poking at
his duffel. Finally he glanced up. Alo stared at him with dark, grave eyes.
He swallowed uncomfortably. LePiep was touching him with waves of
anticipation. "Well—we did it. Everything went all right, I guess." He
looked away.
Alo set LePiep aside and stood up. "Pangly," she said. "Who were you
thinking about?"
His throat thickened. "What do you mean?"
Sighing, she moved closer, facing him. She pressed her palms to his
ribcage, then squeezed his sides, holding him. The pressure was familiar,
warm, and terrifying. She gazed at his shoulder. Tension was in her eyes,
too. "You know what I mean." She turned her gaze down for a moment—

and he felt a stirring in his loins—then she met his eyes nervously. "Pangly
—" she started, and he couldn't tell whether she was taunting or pleading.
"When we went through . . . when you. Oh, Pangly!" There was anguish in
her voice—and tears in her eyes. "Who were you thinking of?" she cried.
Part of his breath went out with a hiss. The rest stuck in his throat.
Nerve endings fired randomly through his body, making him twitch, and his
vision clouded. "How—old—did you say—you were?" he grunted, past the
huge obstruction in his throat.
"Old enough!" she cried, muffling her face against his chest. She
hugged him, pressing her breasts against his stomach; then she straightened
and kissed him, making a quiet crying sound. He struggled to overcome the
tension in his arms. His heart was pounding. LePiep purred quietly,
somehow making it easier. Somewhere, in the branches and roots of his
mind, he made a decision. He closed his arms around her head and neck and
cradled her as she kissed him, and then his instincts awakened as his
excitement eased past the tension. He ran his hands once over Alo, and then
quickly lifted her into the sleep bay.
Some time later, Alo gazed down at him and sighed happily, her eyes
sparkling. "You still haven't told me who you were thinking about," she
accused gently.
"Did you tell me how old you are?" He closed his eyes, relaxing
blissfully.
"Told you, I don't know exactly," she said, settling down close to him,
fingering the sweat on his chest. "Haven't even begun to figure in the
relativistic effects."
"Mmf. Can't recall who I was thinking of, either. We must have been
traveling too fast." Very fast, he added silently. Fast enough to blow aside a
lot of memories of failure. Where was the last woman he'd made love to?
Veti IV? Good-bye, whatever your name was.
Alo had no comeback. She was asleep, her cheek resting against his
bare chest.
* * *
Panglor blinked his eyes open. Alo mumbled sleepily, her eyes closed.
He rolled over and squinted to check the time; nearly ten hours had passed.
LePiep tiptoed gingerly along the edge of the bunk and peered into his eyes,
radiating soothing alertness. And contentment. Alo, Panglor thought,

closing his eyes with a sigh. He blinked them open again, touched LePiep
on the nose, and shook his head wryly. Who would have thought it?
He rolled quietly out of the sleep bay, feeling drowsy but restless. He
felt a curious sense of rightness as he studied Alo, still peacefully asleep,
with a hint of a smile on her lips. Nodding to himself, he started dressing,
while LePiep walked back and forth across the narrow bureau ledge,
watching him. LePiep whistled, and a moment later he heard a mumbled,
"Morning, Pangly." He turned. Alo sat up, blinking and tugging back her
hair. She smiled crookedly and gestured for him to come closer.
It took them a while, but eventually they went to the commons for
breakfast, with Tiki. They ate in an uncomfortable, eerie silence—watched
by several crewmen, who, with nervous gestures and eye movements,
betrayed contradictory emotions of fear, resentment, and respect. Panglor
had the uneasy feeling that the Deerfield crew didn't know what to make of
them. But he thought it would be a good idea not to linger here. He and Alo
finished their meal (Tiki had declined ship's food), and they left as they had
entered, in silence.
The bridge was quiet, and it was a moment before Panglor realized that
Jeebering was present, on watch. "Things all right?" Panglor asked,
approaching him.
Jeebering turned slowly. "There have been no problems on the bridge,
Pilot Balef. However, I am concerned about the crew, and I think it best that
you keep apart from them, for the present. Therefore, you will stay on the
bridge or in your cabins, and meals will be served to you there or here.
Understood?"
"Sure," Panglor said. It was probably just as well, if strangeness was
still running strong on the ship. Lovemaking was one thing, but half-crazed
shipmates was another. Suppose they didn't make it back, after all? Suppose
he ended up in real limbo, with an honored Kili guest, a woman to love, and
a ship full of madmen? He shivered and glanced back. "Jeeb? Is something
else wrong?"
Jeebering was scowling, and for a moment appeared not to have heard.
Then he looked up. "I thought I saw Captain Drak."
"What? When?"
Jeebering shook his head. "In the zone. At the moment we dived
through, in the very center. I saw the captain in the screen, and I believe I

also saw one of the missing crewmen. Adams." Sighing, Jeebering rocked
almost imperceptibly in his chair, his eyes clouded with thought. "They
both seemed alive, and conscious—but I don't know what that means, or if I
simply imagined that I saw them."
Panglor silently took his seat, but swiveled back to face Jeebering.
"Maybe you did see them. I was thinking earlier—they may have simply
moved deeper into the discontinuity—into the heart of it, if there is such a
place. Possibly a gate leading right out of our reality. They may be safe, at
least after a fashion, wherever they are." At least I'd like to think so, he
added silently.
Jeebering pressed his lips together thoughtfully, and nodded.
With Alo's help, Panglor began checking over the control consoles.
When he next looked around, he was surprised to see Jeebering sound
asleep in his chair. Good lord, Panglor thought, he must have been up on
watch ever since we left. Shaking his head, Panglor turned back to the
consoles, determined not to let Jeebering down—or the rest of the crew,
either.
Not that there was anything he could do now; it was all in the hands of
fate. The instruments could provide no clue to the ship's condition with
respect to the outside universe.
"Will we—" asked Tiki, consulting his translator in mid-sentence "—
arrive?"
"Hope so," said Alo, eyeing Panglor.
Panglor nodded.
* * *
Five shipdays passed. Panglor chafed at the passage of time—
wondering, scrutinizing blank instruments, talking in subdued tones with
Alo and Tiki. Crew tensions remained high, but Jeebering allowed a few of
the better-adjusted men to return to their duties, though the bridge remained
mostly off limits. Alo, Tiki, and Panglor spent most of their time on the
bridge.
Tregs brought them their meals. He had become more friendly toward
them; he seemed awed because they had flown through a planet into
foreshortening. During the sixth day, distributing breakfast trays, he asked,
"Mr. Tiki, are you sure I couldn't bring you something?"

Tiki declined graciously. "No—no—I am quite well." He had bundled
up in a thick turtleneck robe, saying that he found the human ship
uncomfortably cool.
Tregs clearly was disappointed. As he turned to go, Alo said, "Hey,
why don't you stay and eat with us?"
"Well, I've already eaten," Tregs said apologetically. "But—if you
wouldn't mind—" He looked at Panglor and at Jeebering. "I'd like to offer
something to your ou-ralot. I was wondering if I could make friends with it
—her." He shuffled his feet.
"Sure," said Alo. Panglor nodded.
Tregs set down the tray and lifted a small cover, exposing a portion of
a muffin. "Where is she?" he asked anxiously. Panglor pointed. At the end
of the console, in the corner, Panglor's duffel and several other bags were
strategically piled. A tail stuck out on one side. Tregs approached
cautiously. He knelt and called, "Ou-ralot. LePiep. Will you come out?" He
held out the muffin.
The tail pulled in. There was a faint scratching sound, then silence.
Tregs looked around. Chuckling, Panglor called, "It's all right, Peep."
There was another scratching sound. Tregs edged closer, peering. A
snout appeared in a dark hole in the pile. Tregs held the food close. The
mouth opened, took the muffin gingerly, and withdrew with it. There was a
faint whistle, then silence.
Tregs stood up, gesturing uncertainly. Panglor struggled to keep from
laughing; but Tregs looked so discomfited that he finally chuckled, "It's all
right. She likes—"
A bell chimed. The emergence light winked in the view scanner.
Panglor leaped to the binocular scoopscope. Adrenaline rushed in his
veins. Peering, tuning the scope, he focused on a peculiar clustering of
pointillist dots against a greenish-gray background. The configuration was
unusual, but clearly suggested the beginning of a change in the
foreshortening field. The dots shifted and arranged themselves into discrete,
but unaligned, planes. Not normal. Was this the signature he'd always
dreaded—the signature of a ship about to pop out into limbo?
Alo poked at him urgently. He let her have a look. "What's this mean?"
she said. He nudged her aside and looked again. The planes that the dots

occupied shifted, twisted, and suddenly dissolved. The dots reappeared and
clustered into curved surfaces. Unusual.
Frightening.
"What's happening?" Jeebering demanded, standing behind him.
Panglor shivered. "Don't know for sure," he said, keeping his face to
the scope. This was totally aberrant.
A terrainlike contour fell into focus, milky against the background. The
binocular element was working—two individual patterns, combined into
one field by his eyes and his brain. "Wait—" he said.
"What's happening?" Jeebering roared.
"Pangly?"
A chime sang, and a twisting, vaguely erotic sensation rushed through
his body, and for a moment he was dizzy and could do nothing except cling
to the scoopscope housing. Then he sat back and focused on the viewer.
The first thing he saw was a vast starfield. The second thing, in the
rearward screen, was a capture-field shrinking away behind them. The third
thing was the spectral ID—Dreznelles 3—flashed up by the computer. And
the fourth thing was Alo, hollering triumphantly in his face, clutching him;
and LePiep, bounding bright-eyed at him, whistling; and Jeebering and
Tregs roaring in astonishment. He grabbed Alo and LePiep and hugged
them, and blinked and blinked at the wetness blurring his vision.

OceanofPDF.com

Chapter 14
Panglor released Alo and got LePiep free of his neck in time to hear
Dreznelles 3 Waystation Control come on-com. Tiki chittered excitedly
over the general bedlam, and it was hard to tell what anyone was saying.
"QUIET!" Jeebering bellowed, and after that it was easier.
D3 Control wanted to know who the hell they were, why they weren't
on the capturing roster, and why they had just narrowly missed colliding
with another ship popping out of the field. Panglor listened to the com with
a clammy feeling—not only because of the ship they'd just missed, but also
because here in the D3 system he was still a criminal—discoveries and
alien guest or not.
Jeebering sent D3 Control a telemetry pulse of Deerfield's identity.
That kept them happy for a little while, and then they came back, asking for
a voice confirmation.
Panglor glanced nervously at Jeebering. Giving no sign of his
thoughts, Jeebering keyed the com and stated: "Dreznelles Three Control,
this is Deerfield. We confirm, we are Vikken freighter Deerfield, First Mate
Tal Jeebering in temporary command. We have returned from the
Dreznelles One star system under unusual circumstances, and request escort
to the station."
D3 Control came back: "Deerfield, can you give us more information
on that, please? We do not copy. Did you say Dreznelles One?"
With a glance at Panglor, Jeebering said, "D3, affirmative. We will tell
you everything when we arrive. We have several passengers bearing
important scientific information." Panglor held his breath as Jeebering
added, "Two of our guests are human, a Pilot Panglor Balef and a Miss
Alontelida Castley."
Control responded: "Pilot Panglor Balef, did you say? Wait . . . "
Silence ensued for a number of seconds, during which Panglor's face grew
numb, and then Control said: "Is that Balef, pilot of the freighter, Fighting
Cur?"
"Affirmative," Jeebering said. "His ship was lost in the D1 system.
However, he piloted our return. And aboard, as his guest, we have a . . .

Mister, I guess . . . Tiki . . . a distinguished representative of the Kili race."
For an instant, merriment flashed in his eyes. "We request protective
custody for our guests."
D3 Control advised that escort was en route.
"Did you have to tell them we were aboard?" Panglor said uneasily.
Jeebering gazed thoughtfully at Panglor. "It was either now or later.
We'll just have to see how things work out." He stared at the screen. "For
you—and for my men. I don't know what the psychs will make of my men."
His face betrayed apprehension.
* * *
The waystation was the same glittering beehive that had greeted
Panglor once before, but it had traveled more than halfway around its sun.
Nearly half a standard year had passed here since their departure. Flanked
by escort ships, Panglor docked Deerfield in a specially designated
mooring, some distance from the commercial traffic. Minutes later, the
ship's corridors were aswarm with uniformed officers of the Waystation
Authority. Several officials stepped onto the bridge and looked back, as
though awaiting someone else.
Soon an older man appeared, flanked by two assistants in government
uniforms. He introduced himself as Jonli Bertrecht, Deputy Secretary of the
Office of Extrasolar Affairs. After the initial greetings, he formally
welcomed Tiki on behalf of the waystation and humanity in general. "Is it
true, sir, that you are a member of the race we call 'Kili'?" he asked. "We
have found many of the worlds your people once inhabited, and we have
sought contact with your people for many years."
Tiki consulted his translator and performed a series of gestures. "As
nearly as I can answer, yes," he replied. "I am graciously pleased to greet
you, too."
Bertrecht smiled and said, gravely, that he anticipated a long and
mutually profitable friendship between his and Tiki's peoples. Tiki blinked
and consulted his translator again. "Indeed," he answered, obviously
confused. "I trust that your bodies water well, and your tongues do not
stick." Suddenly he brightened. "Let me show you now my fine good
friends Panglor and Alo and LePiep, who brought me here to this world.
They survived discontinuity." He held LePiep up, beaming.

Bertrecht scowled ever so lightly. "Yes. Pilot Balef and Miss Castley,
we are sure that you have a great deal to tell us. However, I am afraid that
for the time being you will be under the custody of the Waystation
Authority." One of the uniformed officers stepped forward as though to take
charge.
"Now, wait a minute," Panglor growled. LePiep scrambled from Tiki's
arms into his and huddled, radiating displeasure. "We stay with Tiki or we
don't go."
Tiki agreed, suddenly becoming agitated. "No, no, yes! They must—"
"Hold it!" Jeebering interrupted. Bertrecht looked at him questioningly.
"I am still commanding this ship," Jeebering said. "I told you that these two
have important information to offer, and that the Kili is here as their guest,
and as mine. Now, will you give them protective custody—in your
department—or not?" He gazed sternly at the D3 officials.
Bertrecht met his gaze. "Very well," he said finally. "They will be
provided with joint quarters, under the auspices of my department, on my
authority." His gaze shifted to Alo, then Panglor. "However, you understand
that you will still be required to answer to the Waystation Authority?"
Panglor nodded. You play it straight and we'll play it straight, he
thought. Let's all play it straight for once.
Shortly afterward, they boarded a shuttle and flew to the waystation.
Panglor felt a variety of emotions at the sight of the gleaming, intricate
world: relief, pleasure, apprehension about the future. Alo squeezed his
hand, and LePiep gave an encouraging squeak. The shuttle circled the
station and docked in a government-restricted sector. They were processed
quickly through decontamination, ahead of the Deerfield crew, and
conducted to their quarters. Two officials took preliminary statements, and
then left them alone.
The quarters were impressive: three adjoining luxury rooms, with a
common room in the center dominated by a small decorative pool and
sumptuous furnishings. They would be comfortable, all right—except for
the locked exits and the guard outside. Tiki looked around thoughtfully.
"We are guests of honor, then?"
"Guess you could say that," Panglor sighed. "We're the guests of your
honor. If you weren't here, we'd be in the slammer." He wondered gloomily

what would happen at the debriefing session, set to begin in six hours, at
0800.
* * *
"Horrrrl," said LePiep, radiating unease.
The buzzer sounded, and almost simultaneously the door paled.
Panglor looked up to see a pale, blond-haired man enter, carrying in his
right hand a small glass cage. "Pilot Balef?" he said. "My name is Gometz,
and I'm from the Office of Extrasolar Affairs."
"Yeah?" Panglor said grouchily. "It's not 0800 yet, it's only 0700.
What's that you've got in your hand?" He did not at all like the looks of this
man. LePiep hopped into his lap, radiating distrust.
Gometz half-opened his mouth but hesitated, hefting the cage in his
hand, before he spoke. "I apologize for the disturbance—and for what I
have to tell you. But my orders come to me from the Department of Health,
through the Office of Extrasolar Affairs."
"What orders?"
Gometz cleared his throat. "I am afraid that we must take your pet, the
ou-ralot, back to the veterinary section for quarantine and examination."
Panglor rose, blood rising in his face. "She has been with you to a world of
which we know nothing," Gometz continued, "and this is a precaution
against any pathogens or viruses—"
"What pathogens or viruses?" asked Alo, entering the room with a
yawn.
"Cock-and-bull pathogens and viruses," Panglor said. He glowered at
Gometz and held LePiep protectively.
Gometz displayed no emotion. "Please understand, it is a matter of
legal necessity," he said, handing Panglor a small plastic card. "That's a
health warrant, issued to anyone bringing in an animal without Known
Planet Clearance. It was only an oversight, in the confusion, that you
weren't served with this on your arrival at de-contamination. But it's
necessary now, and we all just hope that it goes smoothly."
Panglor frowned at the warrant. It looked authentic and confirmed
what Gometz had said. Alo peered over his shoulder and snorted. "If LePiep
carried any viruses, why wouldn't we be carrying them too?"
Waving negligently, Gometz said, "You have been cleared. But our
scanning procedures for humans are faster than those for animals we see

infrequently—such as ou-ralots."
"Aahh," Alo said deprecatingly. Panglor remained silent, thinking.
"I assure you that your ou-ralot will be well cared for—I'll see to it
personally." Gometz pointed to the com-console. "Why don't you go ahead
and verify that warrant? It might make you feel more comfortable if you
confirm its authenticity."
Alo took the card from Panglor and padded over to the console. "Fine
thing," she muttered. "Come home and be harassed like this." Panglor
watched her, thinking, True—but we're in enough trouble with the law as it
is. If this is for real . . .
"Pangly, it checks out," Alo said, frowning, turning from the console.
"According to the computer," Panglor growled, trying not to believe it.
"Yeah, well—but why wouldn't it be right?" said Alo. "I mean what
would anyone gain by falsifying it?"
Panglor shrugged and faced Gometz appraisingly. Not that he trusted
this joker, but what could he do? He had probably dodged as many laws by
now as he was going to get away with. "All right," he said. "But I'm coming
down there with you. I want to see where you're taking her."
Gometz cleared his throat. "Ordinarily I would say yes, but the
problem is that you have to be at your debriefing in a few minutes and,
well, I've been asked to remind you to be there on time. They'll be sticky
about it, I'm afraid." At Panglor's scowl, Gometz added, "But please don't
worry. Your ou-ralot will be fine. And now . . . " He touched the side of his
glass box, and the top swung open.
Panglor hesitated, but saw no alternative. Lifting LePiep carefully, he
studied her dark pulsating eyes. "Old friend, you've got to go off for a bit
while they check you over. Okay? You be good, and we'll have you back
here soon." He looked up at Gometz. "Right?" he said tightly. Gometz
turned his palms up.
"Hrruuu," said LePiep, quivering. She seemed uncertain and unhappy,
but when she touched Panglor with her emotional radiance, their bond was
as secure as ever, and her trust of his actions was complete. She peered at
Alo, too, and warbled.
"Okay, bub. See you soon," Panglor whispered. He carried her to the
box and set her inside. Then he closed the lid himself. "All right, Gometz,"
he said rising. "You can take her to the meds now. But I want you to

remember this: If anything happens to her, I hold you personally
responsible. She comes back safe and happy, or I am going to break your
neck. Is that clear?" He glared, his temples pounding.
A spark of emotion lit Gometz's eyes, then faded. He's afraid, Panglor
thought. Good. Gometz picked up the cage and walked to the door. "She'll
be fine. I'll bring her back just as soon as I can," he said. The door paled
before him and opaqued behind him when he was gone.
Panglor turned helplessly to his friends. Tiki had just come into the
lounge, and as Panglor was explaining to the Kili what had happened, the
buzzer sounded again and the door paled. A guard entered to escort them to
their debriefing.
* * *
The debriefing panel consisted of a semicircle of examiners, some in
the flesh and some as holacrums, led by an Undersecretary of Extrasolar
Affairs, a middle-aged woman named Dr. Barthollo. She introduced the
government officials, the Vikken Lines representative, and the scientists on
the panel and then said, "We have several purposes in conducting these
hearings. First, to learn exactly what happened in the Dreznelles One
system, how you met our Kili guest, and how you managed to return. Your
preliminary report is astonishing, to say the least—yet you are here, and so
is your friend Tiki. We also wish to interview Tiki, of course; but we are
honoring his request that we speak with all of you together, at least for now.
Finally, and I address this particularly to you, Pilot Balef, there is the matter
of certain events in D3 space, culminating in your insertion to the D1
system with Deerfield. That question will be deferred until the end of the
inquiry; however, it will not be left unasked." She caught his eye for a
moment, then said, "Very well. Let us proceed."
The session lasted all day. Panglor and Alo related everything that had
gone before, and answered a multitude of questions. The scientists on the
panel listened with skeptical interest to their descriptions of the world they
called Dementia, and to their laymen's conclusions that Dementia was a
zone of discontinuity in the fabric of space. What prevented outright
disbelief, Panglor thought, was their simple presence here—especially
Tiki's. The Kili was the sensation of the inquiry, and during the second half
of the day, most of the questions were directed to him.
Through it all, Panglor fretted and sweated and wondered what the vet
crew was doing to LePiep. He tried to convince himself that LePiep was all

right. When they were conducted back to their quarters at the end of the
day, he asked the guard if he could be escorted down to the quarantine area.
The guard, a young man, said affably enough that he would have to check.
Alo and Tiki were in the other rooms when the door buzzer sounded.
Panglor turned, assuming that it was the guard, with an answer. To his
surprise, Gometz entered, carrying the glass quarantine cage with LePiep.
Panglor hurried to release her. Gometz stood with both hands in his
pockets, a tiny smile at his lips, as Panglor scooped LePiep into his arms.
"Babe, how are you doing, bud?" Panglor cried, lifting her to eye level.
LePiep muttered uneasily, looking dazed. She radiated groggy confusion
and seemed to have trouble focusing her eyes. Panglor turned a hard gaze
upon Gometz.
"She's a little woozy from the anesthesia, I think."
"The—"
"Mr. Balef, we must talk," said Gometz. His hand moved in his pocket,
and suddenly the air shimmered and they were surrounded by a privacy-
shadow, enclosing just the two of them. Panglor glared, but before he could
open his mouth, Gometz said, "Now, Balef—the first thing to understand is
that if you make any aggressive move toward me, your animal will die.
Instantly."
A sick feeling invaded Panglor's stomach. "What are you talking
about?" he said slowly.
The smile on Gometz's face was suddenly an atrocious sight against
the shimmering privacy-shadow. "Yes, Balef, I'll explain. And you'll listen,
won't you? Your brawny threats will be quite ineffectual here. If you will
please examine the left side of your animal's neck, tell me what you see."
Panglor scowled as he looked. LePiep squirmed, but he saw enough.
"You cut her, you bastard!" he hissed. He edged forward ominously.
"That's far enough, Balef," said Gometz, raising his chin. "My hand is
on a trigger." He moved his right hand in his side pocket. "There is a
capsule in your animal's neck, containing a dose of 34-cymid. One touch on
my trigger, and the capsule releases the poison into her bloodstream." His
eyes glinted, meeting Panglor's. "Actually she won't die instantly. Over a
period of several minutes, all of it with her in agony, her own enzymes will
convert the 34-cymid to a-cymidine. Then she'll die—when the a-cymidine
reaches a lethal level."

Panglor was so stunned he scarcely heard the rest. " . . . to know
exactly how your animal dies." He suddenly focused on the words. "It
doesn't have to happen, Balef. She can live. You simply tell the Waystation
Authority, when they ask, that you stole the ship you left in, as the report
shows. You make no mention of your employers. In fact, you can't even
remember who they were. You stole the ship and you made a run against
Deerfield to spite your old employer, Vikken. Anything you might have
already told them was a lie."
So. The miserable son of a buggered rat worked for Grakoff-Garikoff.
Or . . . what was their name? . . . Barracu Transport. "You want me to
protect those bastards?" Panglor answered, laughing coldly, knowing his
words held no power. It all made sense now. Garikoff had to cover himself;
he could be in deep trouble if the truth came out at the inquest, and the truth
was exactly what Panglor intended to tell.
Gometz shrugged. "If you tell the inquest board anything else, the
animal dies. If you breathe a word about what I've just said, she dies.
Painfully. Is that what you prefer? I understood that you cared for the
animal." Gometz chuckled faintly.
"What proof do I have you're telling the truth?" Panglor said, scowling.
Instinctively he held LePiep closer; she was beginning to stir, to become
alert, to radiate waves of distress.
"Want to put it to the test?" Gometz said tauntingly. His hand moved
again in his pocket.
Panglor silently measured the distance between Gometz and himself,
and wondered if he could reach the bloodsucker and squeeze the life out of
him before he could press the trigger. It seemed unlikely.
As though reading his thoughts, Gometz said, "Never mind thinking
about me." He took his hand out of his pocket and held it out, palm empty.
He laughed. "Mr. Garikoff has another trigger, and he's in another part of
the station. If I don't return on schedule he'll kill your animal anyway,
without another thought. And if you open your mouth at the inquest, she
dies for sure. It's your choice." His face was smiling, ugly, and Panglor
longed to smash it like a pumpkin.
"How," Panglor said carefully, trying to keep his voice even, "do I
know Garikoff really is here at D3, really has a trigger, or that there really is
a poison capsule? Or that he won't kill her even if I do keep quiet?" As he

spoke, he gently probed LePiep's neck. His fingers passed over a small
bump under her skin, just below the ear, near the incision. His hopes
vanished.
Gometz shrugged, smiling. "As I said, it's your choice."
Panglor stared, silent and defeated. What choice did he have left but to
go along with them for LePiep's sake? "Tell Garikoff I want to see him in
person," he said, but it came more as a whine than as a demand. "I want to
see him in person, and I want him to assure me personally that he'll leave us
alone if I do what he says."
Gometz arched his eyebrows, "I'll ask him, but don't count on it. Now,
then . . . " and as he spoke, the privacy-shadow vanished and he stepped
back. Nearby, Alo and Tiki were watching in puzzlement. "Remember,"
Gometz warned. He picked up the empty cage and headed for the door.
"Tell Garik—" Panglor started then cut himself off. He glanced at Alo,
then at Gometz again, beaten, humiliated.
Gometz nodded, eyes steely, and left the room.
"What was that?" Alo asked. "Is LePiep all right?" She reached out to
take the ou-ralot from Panglor, and looked puzzled and hurt when Panglor
resisted angrily. LePiep herself was wide awake now and crying softly,
radiating waves of fear and dismay.
Panglor was silent for a long time. Alo did not move, waiting for him
to reply. Finally Tiki spoke. "Your . . . LePiep . . . is hurt?" He looked back
and forth between the two of them.
At last Panglor found his voice. "That," he said softly, "was a Grakoff-
Garikoff stooge. And if you're listening to me now, Garikoff, it doesn't
matter—they already know." Alo's brows furrowed sharply. Panglor,
speaking in a strained voice explained. "It could be a fake, a bluff," he
admitted afterward. "But they weren't faking when they put bombs on the
Cur."
Alo reached up gently and took LePiep from him. She touched the
lump beneath the incision and looked at Panglor gravely. "We can't let them
kill LePiep," she whispered. Panglor shook his head. He sat down, a little
apart, and stared silently at the floor. No, he couldn't let them kill her.
But could he give in to Garikoff, as he had once before? That was what
Garikoff counted on—that intimidation, having worked once, would work
equally well again.

That night Panglor did not sleep. He paced. He sat. He stared at
LePiep. He cursed. He imagined what he would do to Garikoff if he could
—and to every one of the bum's henchmen, especially Gometz. He looked
at LePiep, at her dark, uncomprehending eyes, and he felt his heartache
reflected in the ou-ralot's puzzled misery, her fright and her pain. And he
knew that he had to protect her—and if that meant giving in to Garikoff
again, well, then, it simply had to be. But if he protected Garikoff, then he
would be taking the blame himself for the Deerfield incident. Still, LePiep
would be alive. But for how long? How long would either of them stay
alive?
Part of the night, Alo sat with him in silence; part of the night, Tiki
filled the silence, speaking softly, nostalgically about Dementia. Part of the
night, they left him alone—to think.
He sat numbly through the next day's debriefing, speaking when
spoken to, but not always without prodding. Asked by Dr. Barthollo
whether anything was wrong, he shook his head and muttered about the
strain of the trip. LePiep lay quiet, curled tightly in his lap. When they
returned to their quarters after an all-day session, he hardly felt that he had
left. The same thoughts went wearily round and round through his head.
And soon, he knew, the panel would begin asking the questions he could
not answer.
Alo knelt by him, stroking LePiep. She stared at him silently until he
met her gaze. "Whoh-ee?" LePiep quailed softly, lifting her head.
"It's the filthiest trick I've ever seen," Alo said quietly. "They must
have worked their way into the station's main computer system, if they're
bugging the hearing room—and getting phony IDs and orders."
"Probably," Panglor muttered. His head hurt from lack of sleep. After
all they had been through at D1—to come back to this! "They must be
expanding their illegal operations into the Dreznelles—why else would they
penetrate the station's computers?—and we came back in the middle of it."
His voice was little more than a whisper. "Damn! They're so bloody
buggering sure of themselves! He twitched, and realized that he had
unconsciously balled his fists.
"Pangly—"
"The computers, though—the damn computers." He focused on Alo.
"What if — ?" Suddenly his heart beat quickly. "Listen, how long do we

have before the next hearing?"
"Till morning. We're supposed to be sleeping. And you really should
—"
"No sleep. Forget sleep," Panglor said tightly. He leaned close to her
ear and whispered, almost inaudibly, "You're about to outdo everything
you've ever done on a computer system. First see if they've got a bug on us
through the com-console. If they do, kill it. Then we're going to falsify a
few programs of our own."
As he explained, Alo's brows knitted in fierce concentration.
* * *
Panglor put Tiki to work calming LePiep, then he tackled the
mechanical job. He opened the access panel of the com-console and sat on
the floor, staring at the internal components of the terminal, balancing his
unitool in his hand, thinking. He looked up at Alo, waiting for her to finish
at the board, wanting to scream to relieve the terrible tension in his chest.
Alo stared at the board, brow furrowed. Her fingers moved, slid, danced
across the board. Panglor peered back into the works of the console and
poked tentatively with his unitool.
Alo looked down. "Okay, Pangly, the bug program is blocked. And this
is set to go as soon as you cross those circuits."
Taking a long, deep breath, Panglor reached into the console and
disconnected several hair-fine light-fibers in back, then several more in
front. The cross-circuiting was no easy job, and by the time he was finished,
he had clipped out several circuits altogether and used the fibers as
extensions for the ones he needed to rearrange. "Okay," he grunted. "Send."
Alo fiddled. "It's done. The med section will receive the alert for a
cymidine poisoning case, starting in half an hour, appearing consecutively
on every cardiac display in the department."
"You're sure Garikoff couldn't monitor that through the bug on our
sender?"
"Pretty sure. Not unless they're smarter than we think they are. I sent it
out as a coded telemetric pulse through the central system."
"All right, let's get that other message ready." Panglor cut six circuits
and reconnected one. "Go ahead." Then, as Alo worked, he began
dismantling several unrelated components under the console. Alo was
already finished when he finally sat back, holding several units in his hands.

He looked at LePiep, then spent the next forty minutes assembling and
recircuiting, and when he was finished, he had two pieces of equipment in
his hand. One looked like a piece of barnacled toast with horns, and the
other looked like a tiny spaceship trailing a wire.
"Tiki," he said, holding up the barnacled toast, "you keep that close to
LePiep at all times. Maybe you can hold it under your robe." Tiki took the
instrument and held it for LePiep to sniff. Then he carefully placed it under
the front fold of his robe and held LePiep to his breast. "I don't know if that
thing will jam the signal from Garikoff's trigger," Panglor said—his words
scarcely conveying the fear in his heart—"but it might. I hope it won't be
put to the test."
"Excellent," said Tiki somberly. "A difficult situation."
Alo was staring at the other device. "We have to test this," Panglor
muttered. It was the transmitter-laser from the com-console; with the use of
extra components and fibers, however, he had attempted to step up its
power. He reached into the console and connected the power line trailing
from the device. Then he pointed the instrument across the room and
touched a switch. A hairline beam of light jumped out; smoke hissed from
the opposite wall. Panglor disconnected the laser and went to inspect the
damage. He had burned a small hole into the metal-matrix wall. "Right," he
said, and his stomach grew tight. The laser worked. So he was going to go
through with the plan. There was a chance that it would fail—that he would
watch LePiep die. He turned, feeling a numb weakness in his legs. LePiep
was watching him from Tiki's arms, and her sorrowful fear washed over
him.
"That's it?" Alo asked. She cleared her throat; she understood.
Panglor nodded, closed up the com-console, and handed the laser to
Tiki. "Can you hide this in your robe for a minute?" Tiki clucked, and the
weapon vanished under several folds of cloth. "Okay," Panglor said and
went to the door.
When Alo nodded from the com-console, he pressed the door signal.
The door paled, and the guard peered in. "Yes?"
"Um . . . there's a message here on our console you need to see,"
Panglor said. He indicated the com-console with his eyes. "You're to let us
go for a while."

The guard looked dubious. "I'll look," he said. "But listen—I don't like
to use this—" he pointed at Panglor with his right forefinger, the tip of
which glittered with the tiny muzzle of a grafted-on-nervie "—but if I need
to, I will."
"Right—sure," Panglor said and stood well back as the guard crossed
the room and glanced at the com-console. His eyes widened in surprise.
"You see?" Panglor said. "I wasn't kidding." He joined the guard and looked
at the screen, to see what message Alo had trumped up.
The message read: "BY ORDER OF THE DIRECTOR'S OFFICE OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF EXTRASOLAR AFFAIRS, THE FOLLOWING
PERSONS:
PANGLOR BALEF
ALONTELIDA CASTLEY
TIKI
ARE INSTRUCTED TO PROCEED TO THE MEDICAL ARRIVAL
AREA, FOR CONFERENCE WITH ACTING COMMANDER TAL
JEEBERING OF FREIGHTER DEERFIELD. THE ABOVE-NAMED
PERSONS MAY PROCEED UNESCORTED, AND DUTY GUARD IS
HEREBY INSTRUCTED TO REMAIN AND GUARD QUARTERS IN
THEIR ABSENCE. PER AUTHORIZATION, WAYSTATION
AUTHORITY, 543:11.24: 2210."
The guard scratched his upper lip. "I'll have to confirm this. I can't
imagine why they didn't notify me in the usual way." He squinted for a
moment; Panglor could see his throat move slightly as the guard operated
his implanted transceiver. Panglor crossed his fingers. The guard grunted
and reached out to the com-console terminal. "Something's wrong with
channels. I'll have to try for a confirmation on here."
"That must be it," Panglor said. "I wondered myself why they would
contact you this way. Probably some difficulty in the other systems." He
glanced at Alo behind the guard's back. If she knew how to set up a block in
the security-com system from here, it was no wonder she had always been
in so much trouble at the station.
The guard cleared the board and punched in a request. The word
"CONFIRMED" appeared in the screen, followed by the same message.
The guard scratched his head. He used a different code. The result was the

same. The guard appeared at a loss; he was obviously not completely
convinced.
"Is there a problem with this?" Tiki said suddenly, moving to join
them. He was still holding LePiep. He addressed the guard, his eyebrows
dancing. "I do not understand. Is it usual for you not to trust messages from
your own human people?" He spoke in a tone of voice that was soft, and yet
not so much gentle as persuasive, conveying the disappointment of one who
has trusted and been let down.
"Well, it's not that, sir, Mr. Tiki. It's just that well—this isn't usual, and
I think I should wait." The guard bit his lip. "If it's really important, they
should send a messenger down."
Tiki made a sorrowful hissing sound. "We have been summoned to a
friend," he whispered. "We are needed. Do you not believe this?" Panglor
felt a curious wave of lightheadedness. He was suddenly afraid that all was
lost; and yet, he wanted very much to believe what Tiki was saying, with all
his heart. Of course, he would anyway—but this was different. Suddenly he
recognized, in a tiny corner of his mind, that he was being gently
hypnotized. Tiki was still talking but Panglor could not quite understand
what he was saying.
Tiki's words became clear as he concluded. "We have been summoned
to our friend, and we really must go." The guard nodded and agreed. His
hands dropped to his sides and he smiled.
Panglor blinked, then gestured toward the door. He followed the others
out, glancing back only once. The guard was watching them, looking
vaguely unsettled. When they were in the corridor, Panglor took his weapon
back from Tiki and hissed, "How long will he stay that way?"
"Why, I don't know," said Tiki. "As long as he remains convinced of
the rightness of my words, I expect. I did not command him. I merely
persuaded."
"Well, if he changes his mind," said Alo, "there will be plenty of
confusion. I planted a bulletin that we've been seen escaping on the far side
of the station. That should give us time to do this, if we can do it at all."
"Yah," said Panglor, scowling. He touched LePiep, in Tiki's arms. "You
have to help us now, babe. It's for you and for all of us. Can you lead us to
those scum? Can you tell us when we're getting near?"

The ou-ralot perked her ears sadly. "Hyool?" she said mournfully,
emitting soft waves of misgiving.
"It's to save you, buddy," Panglor said urgently. "Tiki, you can talk to
her pretty well. Can you get across to her that we just want her to reach out,
to feel for the presence of that bastard, wherever he is?"
Tiki hissed softly and murmured to LePiep. The ou-ralot purred in
return and radiated soft waves of hopefulness. Panglor took that as assent
and started down the corridor. "They can't be far away, because I don't think
their transmitter could function through too many walls. This whole
section's half deserted, anyway. They've probably set themselves up in one
of these empty rooms."
As they passed the first doorway, Panglor watched LePiep for any sign
of reaction. She simply looked at him with wide eyes. They moved on.
Panglor glanced up and down the corridor nervously, knowing that security
scanners must be tracking them; he hoped Alo's program was successfully
feeding the monitoring center a picture of an empty corridor.
"Which way, Pangly?" Alo stood at an intersecting corridor, peering
both ways. "I see someone way down at the end, there," she said, pointing
to the right.
Panglor caught up with her. "This way," he said, pointing left. Besides
avoiding company, he wanted to circle around the block of rooms that
included their quarters. "Any idea what's on the levels above and below
us?"
Alo spoke as they continued walking. "Above—that's where they're
interrogating us. I don't think Garikoff could infiltrate that very easily." She
glanced at LePiep. "She looks a little nervous now, doesn't she?"
"She grows uneasy, yes," said Tiki, gently stroking the ou-ralot in his
arms.
Panglor felt his own nerves tighten. "What's below us?" he asked,
striding forward again.
"Government offices, I think. Maybe the guard headquarters. I'm not
sure," Alo said.
Nodding, Panglor eyed every doorway they passed and glanced back
for any indication from LePiep. Nothing happened until they turned the
next corner; then LePiep began emoting plaintively. Panglor hesitated, then
reached back to scratch her lightly on the head. "We gotta do this," he

murmured, his throat thick. "Wish you could understand why." He gripped
his laser more tightly and moved ahead.
A man rounded the corner ahead and strode toward them. He wore the
uniform of a Waystation Authority guard. "Uh-oh," Panglor muttered. "Tiki,
do you think—?"
The Kili swept by him silently, with astonishing grace and speed. As
the guard approached, he appeared to recognize them and quickened his
pace. Tiki, however, intercepted him and spoke to him in a voice too low
for the others to hear. The man looked puzzled for a moment, then visibly
relaxed. He nodded to Tiki, and to Panglor and Alo, and then he walked on
by and disappeared around the corner. Panglor, breathing more easily,
pulled the laser out from behind his back. Tiki beamed. "I told him we had
been granted freedom of the corridors for exercise. Who would disbelieve
an honored guest-alien?"
"Especially when he uses his voice to hypnotize," Panglor muttered
gratefully.
"Really, friend Panglor, I only use my voice to increase the
persuasiveness of my words. Still," Tiki admitted, "it is a useful ability. My
evolutionary ancestors used it—"
"Tiki, let's just—"
"Of course." Tiki turned and glided down the hallway. After passing
four doors on his left, he stopped and cocked his head. Panglor hurried to
his side.
"Hrrrrl," LePiep said, bristling. She radiated dismay and . . . hatred.
She peered unhappily into Panglor's eyes.
"You feel them up ahead?" Panglor whispered, his limbs turning to
lead. "That next door?" His voice caught; he was unable to breathe for a
moment. Meeting Alo's and Tiki's eyes, he steeled himself and walked
forward to the shimmering, opaqued door. This appeared to be the room
located just about exactly behind their quarters. LePiep's waves of fear
cascaded against him. Fear—and hatred—of someone beyond that door.
She growled throatily in Tiki's arms. Panglor touched her to shush her. His
hand trembled. He steadied himself with a sharp, silent command.
Gripping the laser, he nodded to Alo. The girl worked with incredible
speed; in seconds she had the service plate removed from the door-lock
mechanism. Panglor unwrapped the threadlike power line from the laser

and, squinting, attached it to the power supply inside the door mechanism.
The laser-charging components came to life. He nodded again to Alo, and
she probed at the door-actuating mechanism. Panglor stretched out his
power line; he had about a meter of free movement—enough to get inside
the door and take aim.
Alo moved something, and the forcefield door changed almost
imperceptibly, without paling. Panglor crouched and edged closer. The
door's field was weakened just enough to allow sound to leak through.
Blood rushed so hard in his ears he could barely think, and he exhaled
slowly, steadying himself.
Voices were barely audible through the still-opaque door. For a
moment he could not distinguish words. Alo modified the field a hair more,
and suddenly the sounds became clearer and he heard Gometz's voice,
bored and grumbling. Someone else spoke, a familiar, slightly hysterical
voice. That was interrupted in turn by another . . . one full of gravel, saying,
"All right. So the tap's down. Don't worry—he's in our hand."
Panglor fought down a wave of dizziness. Garikoff's voice jumped out
of his memory; it was the voice he had just heard. It was true, then; he was
here. Vertigo gave way first to anger, then rage. Panglor glanced at Tiki,
who was holding LePiep. The ou-ralot was quaking silently, radiating
terror; she recognized Garikoff's presence, all right. "Tiki," he whispered.
"Hold that gadget I gave you right in front of her." He blinked hard and
gripped his laser tightly. Someone in the room shouted: "Hey, the guards
have a bulletin out! They've escaped, and they're halfway across the
station!"
"What?" growled Garikoff.
"Now!" Panglor hissed.
Alo tripped the door lock, and the door-field vanished. Panglor sprang
into the room, crouching, leveled the laser, and bellowed, "FREEZE, YOU
BASTARDS, OR YOU'RE DEAD!" Three men leaped out of their seats in
astonishment and panic. Lousa Garikoff rose to his short, stocky height and
turned to stare at Panglor. His hairpins glinted and his eyes smoldered. "You
sons of bitches!" Panglor snarled. "Hands where I can see—"
Gometz's eye made a movement to the left. Panglor glanced and saw a
man in the corner raising a weapon. "Freeze, I said!" he screamed and
triggered the laser and swung it in a fast arc. A thread of light swept across

half the room. The man in the corner howled in pain and fell backward,
dropping his gun. Panglor swung the other way, cutting empty air. All of
Garikoff's men were on the floor. Panglor lowered his sights and swept
again, but with the beam cut off. The smell of burnt flesh touched his
nostrils.
The first man was not the only one moaning in pain. The laser had
slashed Garikoff and Gometz both. Two men on the right were crouched on
the floor, staring in fear. Panglor squinted at them and at Garikoff, who was
pushing himself up from the floor, clutching his abdomen. "Balef!" he said
hoarsely, his voice filled as much with surprise as with pain. "You'll wish
—"
Panglor snarled and fired again. Garikoff's left hand had closed over a
small, squarish object that had fallen to the floor. Garikoff grimaced,
squeezing, as Panglor's needle of fire seared across his hand. Garikoff
barked and dropped it. Panglor swept the beam three times across his chest
and then cut his fire. "Bastard!" he hissed. Garikoff fell back to the floor,
gasping. Panglor carefully covered the room with the stilled laser. From
behind him, Alo darted into the room and disarmed the Garikoff men,
tossing their weapons to the door.
A bell was clanging inside Panglor's head, filling him with pain—and
then horror. "LePiep!" he cried. Tiki swept to his side, holding the ou-ralot
close. She was rigid in Tiki's arms, eyes hard and glazed, radiating wave
after wave of pain. "Peep!" Panglor whispered, touching her with his
fingertips. She could not respond; she could only radiate pain. "Alo!"
His cry was unnecessary. Alo was already at the room's com-console,
shouting to someone that an emergency poisoning case was on its way to
the med section. She whirled and caught Tiki's arm. "I'll take her; I can run;
I know the way!" she said in a single breath and reached for LePiep.
"Lead," hissed Tiki, keeping LePiep in his arms. "I can follow faster
than you know!"
"GO!" Panglor screamed.
Alo's gaze flashed from Tiki to Panglor. Then she sprinted out the door
and down the corridor. Tiki followed with LePiep, moving like a frightened
breath of wind.
Panglor stared after them helplessly, his heart pounding. He whirled to
keep his prisoners covered, and it was all he could do to keep from lashing

them over and over again with laser fire. Gathering up the hand weapons,
he jerked on the power line to disconnect his laser, crossed the room to the
com-console, and called the Waystation Authority. Then, trembling with
emotion, he waited.

OceanofPDF.com

Chapter 15
By the time guards arrived, Panglor was nearly incoherent with rage
and fear. No matter how fast Alo and Tiki had gotten to the meds, there was
very little chance of saving LePiep's life. He was no expert, but he knew
that cymid was a deadly killer. Garikoff and Gometz were both unconscious
on the floor now; Panglor had blasted them both with a nervie when
Garikoff tried to rise again. Panglor wished that the bastards were still
conscious, so that he could blast them again. But it wouldn't save LePiep or
bring her back.
One of the two uninjured men, he realized, was Grakoff, partner to
Garikoff. He was a pathetic-looking man, fat and frightened.
Panglor turned over his weapons but it took frustrating minutes to
explain to the guards why they should arrest everyone here and let him run
to the medical section.
The med-section was buzzing when he burst in with two guards
dashing after him. "Where is she?" he cried. A medical worker, startled,
pointed to the veterinary area. Panglor charged into the next room. Finally
he spied Alo and Tiki clustered around a screen with several medical and
veterinary people.
Also saw him coming and urgently waved him over. Heart ready to
burst, he looked to see what they were watching. It was a video image of a
surgeon working on LePiep's small, still form. "She's going to be all right!"
Alo cried softly, seizing his arm and squeezing him until her nails dug into
his flesh.
"How do you know?" he hissed weakly. If she was still in surgery . . .
"It never went off, Pangly! The capsule never got triggered!" Alo was
shaking him.
"But you saw her! She was—"
"She was reacting to us, and—when you burned those guys, those
bastards—she felt it, she couldn't help reacting to their pain!" Alo shook
him harder. "Pangly, she was never poisoned!"
Relief washed through him like a flood of tears. He struggled to keep
from going to pieces. "You mean . . . what are they doing in there, then?"

They both looked back at the screen, where the surgeon was finishing.
"Taking the capsule out. They really did put one in there, they meant to do
it. Either you shot him before he hit the trigger or your jamming gadget
worked. I don't know which, and who cares?" Alo was crying now, still
clenching his arm.
"I'll be damned," whispered Panglor. He looked at Tiki, who was
swaying drunkenly from side to side in pleasure. "I'll be damned."
* * *
The days that followed were a bewildering blur. LePiep was released
from surgery in good health, and with a cheery sendoff from the veterinary
staff. The inquest board began an immediate inquiry into Panglor's
involvement with Grakoff-Garikoff, and the alleged criminal activities of
that company and its officers. Not all of the story, as it turned out, was a
surprise to the Waystation Authority.
The Garikoff ship which had fired on The Fighting Cur during its
insertion run with Deerfield had been captured by the Traffic Patrol. The
pilot of that ship had been willing to talk, and had actually told some of the
story before dying suddenly and mysteriously while in confinement.
Garikoff, it seemed, was in the process of establishing a territory for his
business in the D3 system; and while he had penetrated the government
computer-bureaucracy to an alarming degree, he was also more closely
watched than he probably had realized.
As to Panglor's role, the panel rendered no immediate judgment,
saying that their present interest was in learning the facts, and only after the
entire inquiry was concluded would they return to the issue of possible
criminal charges.
Eventually the inquiry was put back on its original track, and attention
shifted from Panglor to the zone of discontinuity and to Tiki. Panglor and
Alo answered questions until they were weary, but Tiki showed no signs of
tiring. By this time, evidence supporting Panglor's account of events had
been provided by Jeebering and several of the Deerfield crew and by the
Deerfield's instrument recorders. Once the majority of the scientists had
conquered their initial skepticism, they began to grow excited. Suddenly
there was talk of an expedition, of a return to the D1 system by a science-
equipped ship and crew.

The inquest sessions blurred altogether. At some point, Tiki was
invited to become the Kili ambassador to humanity, with D3 as the initial
contact and trade point representing human peoples. Tiki responded with
enthusiasm and delight—until asked for help in locating the Kili people. At
this he crossed his eyes and stiffened. Finally Panglor nudged him, and he
blinked. "Of these things I know nothing," he said mournfully. "Really, I am
only a poor Kili, considered—" and he consulted his translator for the first
time in days "—blellicka . . . by my fellows." He stared solemnly at the
ceiling. "How else may I help you?"
Undersecretary Barthollo appealed to Panglor for help. Panglor sat
mute, realizing suddenly that the panelists did not yet understand that Tiki
was considered . . . not sane . . . by his own people. Alo came to Tiki's
rescue, however. "He's not a space pilot," she explained. "He doesn't know
the answer to your question." The undersecretary looked at her with
skepticism, but at least for the moment, dropped the question.
Eventually they were given a day off, though they were still confined
to their quarters (under improved security). Panglor could hardly rest,
though, wondering as he did what the judgment of the inquiry board and the
Authority would be. LePiep groomed her wings and purred soothingly,
reflecting only a hint of his worry; she was pleased to be safe again, not
having to face the likes of Garikoff. Tiki talked about his preliminary
diplomatic exchanges, and how he had given the board still more details on
the shipwrecks of Dementia. "Humans are vain about their brand names,
even in their shipping companies," he reported. "That upset them. But most
of them, you know, thought their missing ships were done in by ships of
different brand names. Surprised to learn differently."
Jeebering stopped by for a visit, the first time they had seen him in
days. He looked tired, but good color had returned to his face, and his eyes
were clear. He wore a clean, smartly tailored uniform. "How are you, Jeeb?"
Panglor asked, glad to see him.
"Okay," Jeebering said, accepting a mug of hot moke from Alo.
"Wasn't what I came to talk about, though."
"How are your men?" Alo asked.
Jeebering blew across the top of his mug and sighed. "The psychs and
meds have their hands full with some of them," he admitted. "But some of
them are coming around." His eyes flickered. Panglor felt a sour taste in his
mouth and wondered what to say. Nothing, maybe.

"Hope they'll be okay," Alo said quietly.
"Yup," said Jeebering. Suddenly he smiled. "Hey, that wasn't what I
came to talk about, either. I've heard some rumors—nothing official, but my
sources are pretty reliable—that you're going to get some good news."
"Oh?" Panglor raised his eyebrows.
"They were quite pleased by your testimony against Garikoff,"
Jeebering said. "They think they've got a good case against them, and
perhaps they can nab those two from—what was it, Barracu?—while they're
at it. Garikoff will be indicted as soon as he recovers. I don't think they'll
press charges against you, though—either Vikken or the Authority."
Panglor's head was light and his stomach tense all at the same time.
Jeebering added, "They'll probably go after that useless pig Grakoff, too,
though he was basically just a stooge."
Panglor's mouth opened, then closed. He recalled his capture back on
Veti IV. "You know," he said, "I never understood those two. Garikoff told
me that Grakoff was his brother, but not exactly — or something like that. I
wondered what the hell that was supposed to mean."
Jeebering chuckled and shook his head. "I'm surprised you never heard
about them while you were spacing for the lines. They're pretty notorious.
Grakoff is Garikoff's younger clone brother. I don't know how much is
rumor and how much truth, but they say that when Garikoff's biological
mother became sterile—not a bad thing, considering her son—she had an
illegal clone made of her young son, Lousa. It was a typical backroom lab
job, and they botched it—the clone came out not-quite-right. Garikoff hates
him, has nothing but contempt for him. But there was a time when Garikoff
was broke and hurting, and Grakoff had money to put up, and so they
formed the Grakoff-Garikoff Shipping Line."
Alo wrinkled her forehead. "So why don't they have the same name?"
Jeebering sighed. "Grakoff suffered early mental and speech
deficiencies. Or anyhow, the story goes that when he was young, he couldn't
pronounce his name right—it came out as Grakoff instead of Garikoff—and
he just kept his own version. Who knows? It probably became a symbol of
some imagined autonomy from his domineering brother." Jeebering toyed
with his mug. "Well, anyway—"
"Mmm," grunted Panglor.

"I just stopped by to tell you I think things are probably going to go
your way. Those scientist guys are all hepped up about this zone of yours."
Jeebering laughed. "I don't know why I think of it as being yours, but I do.
Probably because you were right in your element there." He chuckled and
glanced at Alo. "Anyhow, they didn't believe you at first, but all the ship's
records were there. And they seemed to trust me because of my stripes or
something, and I told them all about your crazy scheme of diving through
that planet—"
"Not a planet," Panglor protested.
"Right. Whatever. I told them you did it and it worked, and all the
records verify that. And you brought a real live Kili with you, and—to keep
it short—they're pretty impressed by the implications there. First I thought
they'd just be happy to know where all the ships were disappearing to, but
no, they're blathering now about theoretical possibilities, just like regular
damn scientists. Talking about new theories of the nature of reality, blab,
blab. Cripes. They're saying maybe some day we could fly through these
things as a matter of routine, going from one zone to another the way Tiki
talked about. Fly right through the zones into another reality, steering with
mental images the way you did. Daydream-flying!" Jeebering shook his
head. "Maybe in some other century. Anyway, I told them you were the
ones they should be talking to, not me. We were just bystanders." He fell
silent and drank his moke.
Panglor was touched more deeply than he would have believed.
"Jeeb," he said, embarrassed. "That was nice of you." When the hell had
anyone ever given him credit for doing something useful, for being capable
where others weren't? He scarcely knew how to reply to the compliment.
"Hah?" Jeebering said. "Ah, hell no. I just told them the facts." He set
down his mug. "Got to go. So long."
After Jeebering had gone, Panglor sat in silence, gazing at Alo. He
couldn't think of a thing to say.
In the morning, Jeebering's rumors were confirmed officially, when the
inquest panel delivered their preliminary summation. In view of the
extraordinary information brought back, and the courageous actions taken
to bring Deerfield safely home, and in consideration of the testimony
rendered against Grakoff-Garikoff, no charges were being considered
against Panglor for the sabotaging of Deerfield's insertion. Or, for that

matter, for the breach of security and the assault against Garikoff and his
men. Panglor stared at the panel, unable to voice his relief.
Then a man named Elbright, who seemed to be chief of the scientific
phase of the inquest, took the floor. "Now that that's out of the way,"
Elbright said, "we have an offer to make—a request, really. Will you return
with a scientific expedition to the D1 system? We're formulating plans to
outfit a research ship to investigate, er, Dementia, and we want you two to
come along as special consultants."
Alo stirred suspiciously. "Do you mean consultants or insurance?" she
asked. "Or test animals?" Panglor shot her a cautioning look; she ignored
him and eyed the scientist.
Elbright was startled, but he did not seem offended. "Maybe all of
that," he admitted. "But we'll pay you consultants' salaries—twenty
thousand a month—although the psychs will be wanting to observe you, as
well. They'll be observing everyone, including themselves."
"I'm not so sure I want to rush right back there," Panglor said.
"I wouldn't call it rushing," Elbright said. "It will take time to prepare,
and if we get appropriations for a ship carrying its own foreshortening-field
generators—to be on the safe side for the return—it could take a year,
anyway."
Panglor blinked and sat back.
The scientist added, "We'd like you to be available as consultants right
away, though. Salaried, of course."
That impressed Panglor even more.
Later he discussed the matter with Alo. Tiki joined them and said that
he had been asked to go along, too—if it would not interfere with his
ambassadorial duties. The scientists wanted to return with him to his
wrecked ship; they hoped to find and decipher, with his help, locational
coordinates for the Kili worlds. "Will go if you go," said Tiki. "Flillik." He
was dressed in a new robe with tassled trimmings, tailored to his
specifications by his waystation hosts. Panglor chuckled. The Kili was
taking his new job seriously, but not without flair.
"So, Alo, what you say?" Panglor asked. Alo was examining the door's
opaque-field mechanism. Panglor didn't know why, because they were no
longer being held under tight security. "We go back there," he said, "that's
what drove the poor bastards from Deerfield crazy. Even Jeeb."

"Because they weren't crazy enough to begin with," Alo said, without
turning.
"Belllri-brikk. True," said Tiki, blinking.
"So do you want to go back?"
"Sure," said Alo. "Why not?" She turned from the door and went to the
mantel under the holo-screen, where LePiep lazed, chin hanging over the
ledge. She rubbed the side of her finger against the ou-ralot's snout. "You
want to go?" she asked, looking back finally at Panglor.
"I guess so." He felt a strange pressure in his chest, like a balloon
inflating. He wanted to go if she did, but otherwise not. "Sure. We could
bring the good old Cur back."
"This is good, then," said Tiki. He rose, swaying. "I must go now and
meet with the people I said I would meet."
"That's the life of an ambassador," Panglor said with a wave. Alo
followed Tiki to the door and patted him as he left. Then she fussed with
door for a moment and came back, grinning.
"It's settled, then," she said and sat in his lap, straddling and facing
him.
"Right," he said, breathing faster. Alo was quite attractive at the
moment; she wore a close-fitting, flared-cuff jumpsuit, open just an inch or
two at the throat. Her hair brushed his face as she bent and kissed him.
"Wait—" he mumbled, when their lips parted. "Those scientific joes are
coming in a few minutes." He didn't want to get involved in something here
he would hate interrupting.
"No, they're not," Alo said slyly. She kissed him again, for several long
seconds this time, and pulled back to watch his expression. "I jimmied the
door closed."
He gazed at her suspiciously. She nodded evilly.
"Hyoolp!" LePiep whistled.
OceanofPDF.com

About the Author
Jeffrey A. Carver was a Nebula Award finalist for his novel Eternity's
End; he also authored Battlestar Galactica, a novelization of the critically
acclaimed television miniseries. His novels combine thought-provoking
characters with engaging storytelling and range from the adventures of the
Star Rigger universe (Star Rigger's Way, Dragons in the Stars, and others)
to the character-driven hard SF of The Chaos Chronicles. Sunborn,
published in 2008, is the fourth novel in the Chaos series, which began with
Neptune Crossing and continued with Strange Attractors and The Infinite
Sea.
A native of Huron, Ohio, Carver lives with his family in the Boston
area. He has taught writing in a variety of settings, from educational
television to conferences for young writers. He has created a free web site
for aspiring authors of all ages at http://www.writesf.com. Learn more about
the author and his work at http://www.starrigger.net.
THE END
For more great books visit
http://www.webscription.net
OceanofPDF.com