Going Alien
six science fiction stories by
Jeffrey A. Carver
Book View Café Edition
August, 2012
ISBN: 978-1-61138-194-8
www.bookviewcafe.com

OceanofPDF.com

Copyright Information
This is a work of fiction. All the characters and events portrayed in this
book are fictitious, and any resemblance to real people or events is purely
coincidental.
GOING ALIEN
Copyright © 2012 by Jeffrey A. Carver
A Starstream Publications Ebook
Discover other ebooks by Jeffrey A. Carver at
www.starrigger.net/ebooks.htm
Cover art by rolffimages
Type design by Dave Smeds
Frontispiece illustration from Galaxy magazine
Copyright © 1975 by Connor Freff Cochran, used by permission of the
artist
v20120906jac
*****
OceanofPDF.com

Original Publication
"Shapeshifter Finals" first appeared in the anthology Warriors of Blood and
Dream, edited by Roger Zelazny, Avon Books, 1995. Copyright © 1995
Jeffrey A. Carver.
"Love Rogo" first appeared the anthology Futurelove: A Science Fiction
Triad, edited by Roger Elwood, Bobbs-Merrill Company, Inc., 1977.
Copyright © 1977 Jeffrey A. Carver.
"What Gods Are These?" first appeared in Galileo magazine, issue #9,
1978. Copyright © 1978 Jeffrey A. Carver.
"Life-Tides" first appeared in the anthology Habitats, edited by Susan
Schwartz, DAW Books, 1984. Copyright © 1984 Jeffrey A. Carver.
"Alien Persuasion" first appeared in Galaxy magazine September 1975,
UPD Publishing Corp. Copyright © 1975 Jeffrey A. Carver.
"Though All the Mountains Lie Between" first appeared in the Science
Fiction Times and the anthology Dragons of Darkness, edited by Orson
Scott Card, Ace Books. Copyright © 1980 by Jeffrey A. Carver
*****
OceanofPDF.com

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Frontispiece
Introduction
* * *
Shapeshifter Finals
Love Rogo
What Gods Are These?
Life-Tides
Alien Persuasion
Though All the Mountains Lie Between
* * *
About the Author
OceanofPDF.com

Frontispiece
Cephean the Cynthian, from "Alien Persuasion"
Interior illustration by Freff, for Galaxy magazine
OceanofPDF.com

Introduction
Welcome to Going Alien, the second of my two story collections! The
first was Reality and Other Fictions, published just a couple of months
before this one. It doesn't matter which order you read the two collections
in. They're not chronological. In fact, here's how the stories were divvied
up: The stories in this book have aliens. The stories in the other book have
other wonders, but no aliens.
What kinds of aliens are in these stories? Friendly ones. Unfriendly ones.
Kill-or-be-killed foes. Subtle dangers. Beasts that just need to be
understood. Beasts that can help us understand.
One story seems particularly timely to me, as I write this introduction,
even though I wrote the story years ago. The London Olympic Games are
currently filling the television schedules, and one of the events I look
forward to is the freestyle wrestling. I'm not really a sports fan by most
standards, but I wrestled as a student, and freestyle is as close to the same
kind of wrestling as the Olympics get. It raises the question in a science
fictional mind: Do you suppose the Olympics will ever evolve into an
interstellar sport? I hope they do. In the first story in this collection, we get
a glimpse of something like that: the Games of the IntraGalactic Interworld
Multicultural Amateur Wrestling League, or IIMAWL for short. It's not
quite as heady as the Olympics, but as demanding and full of surprises for
the contestants.
When I was a kid, one of my favorite books was a young-adult novel
called Stadium Beyond the Stars, by Milton Lesser. It was one of those
books that I took out of the library over and over, so many times I'm
surprised they didn't just give it to me. It was about an Olympic-style
athlete bound for the interstellar games on . . . well, I forget what world. His
sport is spacesuit racing. But his journey to the competition is interrupted
by contact with an alien race called the Rollers. He has to decide which is
more important: competing in the games, or completing a peaceful first
contact with a new species. Great stuff, if a little dated for the modern
audience.

Of course, these stories are not all about sports. They're about romantic
love (human-human), the empathic love of animals (be careful what you
wish for), difficulty of communication, alien invasion, and coming of age.
Two of them became the basis of novels, or in one case, a pair of novels.
They cover quite a span of time in my life, and quite a span in where my
head was at in different times in my life. As I said in my introduction to the
other book, I've not been a very prolific short story writer. Just eleven
published in all, at the time of this writing. They seemed to come along at
particular times in my life, and those life differences are reflected in the
mood and content of each story. As in the first collection, I have left the
stories pretty much as they were first published, except for correcting some
errors and some unfortunate changes made by earlier editors.
I'll have more to say about the individual stories as we go. For now,
maybe I should just say, I hope you enjoy them!
This book is dedicated to the tireless Anne King, who has given countless
hours to assisting in the formatting of this ebook and many others. Thank
you, thank you, thank you!
—Jeffrey A. Carver, August 2012
OceanofPDF.com

Shapeshifter Finals
Behind the story:
Much of my fiction draws, one way or another, from my own life. That
might seem an odd thing to say, given that most of my fiction takes place
far from Earth, and far from the present. Nevertheless, it's true. In my novel
Neptune Crossing, there are several scenes set in mining operations on the
frozen surface of Triton. Those scenes drew from my experience as a
college student on summer break, working on an automotive assembly line.
Not the technical detail, of course—but the feeling, the gestalt of what it
was to be thrown into a relentless work environment where respect was
scarce and mastery difficult, even though the work itself was rote.
The story that follows draws from my life, too, but in a more obvious
way. What—have I wrestled a shapeshifter in intragalactic games, as the
hero of this story is about to? No. But I was a high school wrestler, in my
hometown of Huron, Ohio, and some elements of this story were lifted from
my own experiences, or those of my teammates. How did that happen?
"Shapeshifter Finals" is exceptional in my published stories in that it
owes its genesis to a direct invitation. One Sunday morning in 1993, the
telephone rang. My wife answered it. Her voice went funny, and she turned
to me, I swear, with stars in her eyes. She said, "It's Roger Zelazny!" At that
moment, time went sort of funny, and I sat bolt upright in bed. "He says he's
sorry to interrupt your work time, but he has a question for you." She might
as well have said, "It's the Angel Gabriel, and he'd like to have a word with
you."
And here a word of explanation. I had previously written a book in a
shared universe of Roger's devising, and it came out with his name properly
incorporated into the title: Roger Zelazny's Alien Speedway: Clypsis. But
never during that project had I met or spoken directly with him. He was still
a demigod of science fiction, as far as I was concerned. Why would he be
calling me, for God's sake?
He was calling to invite me to write a story for him. He was editing an
anthology, Warriors of Blood and Dream, about soldiers and martial arts in
various science fictional forms, and he was looking for something different.

He remembered reading somewhere that I had been a high school wrestler.
Would I consider writing a science fiction story for him about wrestling?
I hesitated. I stammered. I gulped. I said, "I don't, um, actually write that
many short stories. I'm, uh, more of a long . . . novel . . . sort of writer."
Roger was quiet.
Deeply grateful that we didn't have videophones (Skype was far in the
future), I hemmed. I hawed. I finally stuttered that I'd think about it, and if
an idea came to me, I'd see what I could do.
Roger thanked me politely, and hung up.
Three days later, the idea for this story came to me. I sat down and wrote
furiously, forgetting whatever else I was working on. I polished it, and I
sent it to Roger. He liked it, and bought it for his anthology. I later put it up
on my website for online reading, but this is the first time it's ever been
collected since that anthology.
By the way, I never dreamed at the time that one of my daughters would
become a high school wrestler, and follow in my footsteps in a wholly
unexpected way. Unlike my hero, here, she never went up against a
shapeshifter.
_______________
The crowd roared as the first pair of wrestlers engaged in competition
out on the center mat. "Aww-riiiiii-choooo-guyyyys!" "HUGGA-HUGGGA-
HUGGGA-HUGGGA!" "Wickety-(psicry!)-wickety- (psicry!)-wickety-
(psicry!)" Hog Donovan peeked over in the direction of the match, but tried
not to get drawn into watching it. Neither of the contestants in the ninety-
three pound class was human, and better he should keep his mind on his
own upcoming match.
"Gaaiiee! Gaaiiee!" "Brackit-it-it-it-it-it-it-it-it!" "Wheeeooop-ooop-
ooop!" The assortment of cries from the stands was damned disconcerting,
the crowd being over half extraterrestrials. It was the opening bout, finals
round, in the 57,463rd Annual Games of the IntraGalactic Interworld
Multicultural Amateur Wrestling League—and the first games ever to be
hosted by Earth. Hog Donovan prayed that the human fans could drown out
all the ETs when he got to the mat himself. He was as nervous as a

laboratory rat on speed, and he was going to need all the psychological
boost he could get.
Hog paced the warmup area in his tights and warmup jacket, trying to
still the butterflies in his stomach. It would be at least forty minutes yet
before they called him to the mat, for the hundred thirty-eight pound finals.
An eternity! Hog threw himself into his warmup exercises and tried to
blank out everything else.
Bye-bye baby, baby bye-bye . . . The refrain of a popular song repeated
mercilessly in his head, warring with the cheers of the crowd.
Hog grunted, working up a good sweat. Hog indeed! He was long and
whiplike, and bore his nickname only because his old heavyweight friend,
Hermie "Harmin' " Harmon, had dubbed him "Hog" in retribution for his
jokes about Harmon's rhinolike neck. Those were the old days, but the
name had stuck . . .
The crowd roared, and Hog was startled to realize that the first match
was over—the victor a mecurial-skinned creature from Tau Ceti. The next
weight class was up, and—hey!—this was the only other human finalist, a
wiry little Brit named Johnnie Johnson, up against some sort of centipede
from the Vega asteroids.
Hog ducked through to the sidelines to yell encouragement. "Give 'im
hell, Johnnie!" he hollered as the Earthman trotted onto the mat. His voice
was drowned out by a loud buzzing. Up in the stands, a large contingent of
centipede fans were rubbing their upper limbs together, en masse, cheering
on their fellow Vegan.
Hog suppressed a shudder as he watched Johnnie engage the centipede
from a standing position. All those legs. And they were so . . . insectlike.
And quick. With a chitter and a blur of speed, the centipede caught
Johnnie's left ankle with several of its legs, and tripped him for a two-point
takedown. The crowd buzzed in appreciation.
"Get up! Keep moving!" Hog yelled.
Tap tap. Hog started at the rap on the top of his head, and turned to see
Coach Tagget urging him away from the sidelines. "But coach—"
"Hog, go warm up. Don't fret over Johnnie, you're just scaring yourself."
Tagget rapped him on the skull again. "Don't forget—"
"I know, I know, the brain is the most important muscle," Hog repeated
by rote, as he turned back to the warmup area.

"Think about your match. Think," Coach Tagget urged, as Hog resumed
his stretches. After a moment, satisfied with Hog's progress, the coach left
to go watch Johnnie himself.
Think, right. Think about the fact that he was about to wrestle an alien
named Belduki-Elikitango-Hardart-Colloidisan, an Ektra shapechanger
capable of assuming about a thousand different multiworld multicultural
body configurations. He was thinking about it, all right. And he was having
trouble keeping his knees from shaking.
Bye-bye baby, baby bye-bye . . .
He remembered how smug the Earth promoters had been when the
IIMAWL rules committee had offered to make terran rules the norm for this
tournament, in honor of the hosting world. Of course, none of the promoters
had even thought about the fact that Earth's wrestlers would be competing
against sentient bugs, snakes, gorillas . . . and shapeshifters . . . except that
they'd finally decreed a return to the more modest, and protective, tights in
place of skimpy singlets. In other respects, the referees' interpretation of
Earth's rules had turned out to be a tad subjective, to say the least.
"Johnnie—NO!"
The single shout from the Brit's coach was drowned out by a rising buzz
from the crowd. Hog jumped up, trying to see what was happening. The
centipede buzz crescendoed. Hog ducked through an opening in the
sidelines crowd to get a better view.
Uh-oh. Johnnie was in big trouble. The centipede had him halfway onto
his back, with about six legs pushing his shoulders toward the mat. Hog
knelt on the sidelines, twisting and arching sympathetically as Johnnie
struggled against the inexorable leverage of all those limbs. Johnnie's
coach, a wiry little man, was screaming, "Scoot out! Scoot out!" and making
futile sweeping gestures with his arms.
Hog cupped his hands and screamed, "PULL HIS ANTENNAS! PULL
HIS ANTENNAS!"
The match seemed to freeze abruptly, as the centipede cocked its head
and glared across the mat at Hog with all four eyes. Its hairy antennas
bristled. Hog gulped, regretting his impulsive yell. The thing looked as if it
might just abandon the match and come on over and stomp him for his
remark. It appeared to have completely forgotten its opponent.

Johnnie seized the opportunity. For an instant, it looked as though he
might actually grab the thing's antennas—which would have been a definite
foul—but instead, Johnnie managed to get an elbow inside the thing's legs
and knock out several locked joints, loosening the centipede's grip. The
crowd buzzed, and the centipede turned back to its opponent, but Johnnie
was already wriggling quickly out of its arms.
"That's it! That's it! That's it!" screamed the coach, waving wildly.
Johnnie was frantically trying to complete his escape. He had one leg out
now and was up on the other knee. The human crowd was screaming.
The centipede spasmed with rage and tackled Johnnie with a dozen legs.
They fell together to the mat with a whump, knocking the breath out of
Johnnie. Before Hog could even rise up on his toes to yell, Johnnie was on
his back under the centipede, the ref was down on five elbows, peering to
see if shoulder blades were touching the mat, and—slap! tweeeeeeeet!—
just like that, Johnnie was pinned and the match was over.
The centipede humped its back and drew away from its human opponent,
chittering triumphantly. Johnnie sat up, gasping. The centipede crowd went
crazy rubbing their limbs.
Hog caught Coach Tagget's eye and turned away, sighing, to return to the
warmup area. Johnnie had finished in second place. That meant the honor
of Earth, wrestling-wise, rested on Hog. He swallowed, trying not to think
about it. But how could he not think about it? He was the only human left in
the finals. All eyes, and cameras, would be on him.
As he was stretching his hamstrings, Johnnie walked past, shaking his
head. "Tough luck," Hog sympathized.
The Englishman paused, peering at him with dazed eyes. "Are you the
bloke who got that thing as mad as a raving hornet?"
"I—well—" Hog spread his hands. "I was just cheering for you. You
almost made it out, too. Sorry you didn't—"
"You know what those bastards smell like, when they're on top of you
and they're mad?" Johnnie wheezed. "Cheeeeeeez-z-z," he whispered
hoarsely. "That was what damn near killed me." Johnnie shook his head and
wandered off toward the clutches of the TV interviewers. "It wasn't the
bloody pin . . . "
Hog saw Johnnie's coach staring darkly in his direction. He went back to
his warmups. Stretch left, stretch right, down, up . . .

"Heyyaaah, earthman krrreeepy-krrreeepy . . . "
Hog turned, wrinkling his nose at a sudden whiff of ammonia. The
centipede was standing beside him, balanced on half its legs, waving the
claws on the rest of its legs in his direction. "Uh—?" Hog managed. "Can I,
uh, help you?"
The centipede's antennas waved drunkenly. "Hoho yassss," hissed the
centipede. "Krrreeepy-krreeepy earthman sso sssmart! Come sssee me
lataaah." Poot. It made a loud spitting sound. "Yahh-heyyy?"
Hog backed up a step. "I don't know what you're talking about—"
The centipede chittered with laughter and sauntered away. "Lataaaah,
earthman . . . "
Hog stared after it in disbelief. He jumped when he felt a hand on his
shoulder. Then he heard the familiar sound of his coach tsk-tsking.
"Poor sportsmanship, Hog. That's all that is—poor sportsmanship. What
do you expect from a centipede?" Tagget scowled at the Vegan, who was
now parading in front of its fans, waving its arms in triumph. "Look, why
don't you go on back to the locker room and clear your mind. I'll call you
when it's time to come back out."
Hog nodded with relief. Yes. Back to the locker room. Forget centipedes.
Have a swallow of honey for quick energy.
Bye-bye baby, baby bye-bye . . .
He trotted back to the locker room, shaking the tension out of his arms.
* * *
All things considered, it was actually pretty amazing that Earth had ever
gotten nominated to host the IIMAWL tournament. After all, by 2008 A.D.,
the farthest any human had ever gotten from Earth was the Moon. But the
interworld sporting federation liked to give a boost to newly discovered
worlds. And Earth was among the newest—not yet five years a part of the
interworld community, since the Rigellians had landed and made first
contact, and promptly proposed building factories here to employ the locals.
In the eyes of the terran promoters, the tournament was not so much a
sporting event per se as a promotion of tourism and general economic
opportunity aimed at ETs who might want to spend money here. And in that
respect, it was already successful, at least to the tune of a new sports
complex for Cleveland and a good crowd of paying ET visitors.

The human wrestling world, on the other hand—the top wrestlers, the
Olympic and AAU winners—had been pretty resistant to the idea, claiming
that it was insane to pit oneself against aliens whose bodies were so
different as to render competition meaningless. Mostly, the sports writers
echoed that position, denouncing the games as blatant sensationalism. Still,
there were some good, if maybe not great, wrestlers who hadn't seen the
obvious—and had wound up entering the competitions that one wag, as
Time was so fond of putting it, called the "crocodile free-for-alls."
That's the kind of wrestler Hog Donovan was: not great—but sharp,
determined, and something of an iconoclast. He figured he only had a few
good years of wrestling left in him, and he was determined to make the best
of them. And the way to do that was to enter a competition so new, so outré,
that the mainstream wrestling world hadn't caught on to it yet. And maybe,
Hog figured, it would become recognized, and maybe it would even give
him enough recognition so that once he'd hung up his tights and joined the
working world, he wouldn't have to work on a Rigellian assembly line
building Lotusflower roadsters.
Anyway, that was the reason he'd given his parents and his coach, though
it was really only half the story. The other half was that he'd sacrificed and
sweated blood at this sport for over seven years now, and by God, he
wanted to be the best damned wrestler in the galaxy—okay, one of the best
damned wrestlers in the galaxy—even if only for one brief, glorious
moment.
To his own surprise, he'd done well, working his way through four
preliminary rounds, and winning the semifinals just yesterday, narrowly
besting a titanium-boned opponent with twice his strength and half his
agility and intelligence. He was proud of that victory and the
semiconductor-medal it had assured him of, and the recognition it brought
to his home planet.
But right now, he had to focus on just one thing—and that was how the
hell to wrestle against an Ektra shapeshifter.
* * *
He paced in front of his locker and shook the tension out again. Peering
around the corner of the lockers he saw one of the black-skinned African
wrestlers warming up and he gave a collegial thumbs-up of encouragement

before returning to his own spot. Wait a minute! he thought suddenly. There
aren't any Africans in the finals.
He heard a loud crack. Uneasily, he peered around the corner again. The
black-skinned being, which was not human, was separating its joints as if
they were held together by rubber bands. It was pulling its right forearm out
from its elbow, and dislocating its shoulder and stretching it way behind its
neck. The creature grinned a gleaming grin, and Hog withdrew to his own
corner, shivering. A transformer, he realized. Just like the toys that a kid
could flex and twist until they'd changed from, say, a spaceship to an atomic
monster. What world was this creature from?
Don't think about it. Think about your opponent. How are you going to
beat Belduki-Elikitango-Hardart-Colloidisan?
He'd only seen the shapeshifter once, briefly, in a preliminary round.
"Belduki's its name, and throttlin's its game," was how the Plain Dealer had
put it, in pointed reference to its reputed predilection for near-strangulation
of its opponents. That was obviously an exaggeration for effect;
nevertheless, it unnerved Hog, who devoutly regarded wrestling as a
gentleman's sport, safe and well regulated. He'd always scorned so-called
" " "professional wrestling" " " (he always mentally put several quotes
around the phrase, to emphasize his disdain), in which contestants were
slammed to the deck, or thrown against the ropes, or otherwise theatrically
mistreated. Real wrestling wasn't like that; it was a sport of skill and
conditioning and determination.
It'd come as a shock to learn that in the IIMAWL, there was not entirely
the same sense of careful sportsmanship. Oh, sure, there were some
protections: no contestant could emit chemicals toxic to the opponent, for
instance. But with the contestants so morphically different from one
another, monitoring safety was a lot harder than it was between human
wrestlers. One contestant might turn blue with concentration, another with
suffocation. Would a ref who heard that cracking sound of the transformer
recognize it as the sound of breaking bones in a human? In the end, the
IIMAWL claimed to be keeping the sport safe, but it was Hog's uneasy
suspicion that they mostly threw up their hands, flippers, and toes, and said
to hell with it, let's try to keep them from killing each other, but if a ref
misreads a physiologic sign, what are we supposed to do?

Think about the Ektra, Hog thought, shooting a practice takedown in the
empty space in front of his locker. Think about the Ektra.
The shapeshifter. Actually, he'd been more or less counting all along on
Belduki-Elikitango-whatever being knocked out by Gazoom Gazoom the
Indefatigable Baboon and returning champion, from Veni Five. After his
own victory against Titanium Jimm, Hog had been carefully planning ways
to defeat the baboon . . . ingenious ways, resourceful ways. And then the
stupid baboon had gone and fallen right into the Ektra's four-armed can-
opener in the third period, and boom, right onto his back. Slap! Tweet!
(Psicry!) The ref called the fall, and there went all of Hog's planning, out
the window. And now he faced the shapeshifter.
Hog drew a deep breath and blew into his cupped hands. This was no
good—hanging around the locker room, thinking about what could go
wrong. He'd be better off out on the floor, soaking up the psychic energy of
the meet. And where the hell was Coach Tagget, anyway?
Hog reached into his locker, took a long drag from his plastic honey
bear, and slammed the locker shut. For just an instant, as his hand was
about to close the combination padlock, he hesitated. What if he were
knocked unconscious and they needed to get into his locker? Good God,
man—stop it! He squeezed the lock shut with a decisive click.
* * *
As he strode up the echoing passageway to the gym, he heard shouts
from the crowd and felt a surge of adrenaline. He broke into a trot, and
darted past a couple of ETs who were half blocking the end of the
passageway, and jogged out toward the end of the arena.
The crowd erupted with a roar of approval. He smiled to himself,
flushing with confidence, then peered over to see what they were actually
cheering about.
Tweeeeeeeeet! Slap!
The 133-pound match had just ended with a pin. An alien that looked
like a huge gerbil got up, shaking, from under one that looked like a leaf.
The ref flagged the leaf as the winner.
And Hog was up next.
Bye-bye baby, baby . . .
* * *

Coach Tagget found him just in time to yell something incomprehensible
in Hog's ear, shake his hand vigorously, and push him onto the mat with a
whack on the rear. Hog shook off his irritation at the coach and stepped
onto the mat with a glance at the ref.
A new referee had come out from the table, replacing the one who had
just tweeted the last winner. This ref looked a little like a centaur with
multi-jointed legs, and big paddle-shaped hands, great for slapping the mat.
Good, Hog thought. The better to signal Hog Donovan winner by fall. None
of this eking out a victory by points. Hog Donovan goes for the whole
enchilada. Starting right now. This is for Earth, and this is for Hog. He
swung his arms, huffing. Damn straight.
"You can do it, Justin! Tear his lungs out!" screamed a woman
somewhere in the stands. Hog smiled a little. He couldn't pick her out of the
crowd, but he knew his mother was waving her program wildly,
endangering the eyesight of everyone within reach. His father was just as
avid a fan, but he'd be too busy with the fastcam to spend much time
yelling.
A blast of easy listening music filled the gymnasium from somewhere
overhead—a sampler of Earth culture to entertain the ET crowd.
Hog's opponent streamed onto the mat from the opposite side, and
gathered itself up into something resembling a whiplike tree. Its feet, if that
was what they were, stretched out like roots, and Hog could have sworn that
the roots were embedding themselves in the mat. What the hell kind of
creature was this? Ektras didn't make up shapes; they always emulated real
species that Ektras had known, somewhere in the galaxy. Hog puffed into
his fist and looked at the ref, determined not to be distracted by
unanswerable questions.
The announcer's voice boomed: "IN THE ONE HUNDRED THIRTY-
EIGHT POUND CLASS! FROM EARTH: HOG DONOVAN—HUMAN!"
There was a murmur of approval, plus his mother's shrieks, but not exactly
the thunderous roar Hog had imagined. He glanced up into the crowd, and
saw a row of centipedes sitting on their legs. "AND FROM EKTRA FOUR:
BELDUKI-ELIKITANGO-HARDART-COLLOIDISAN—EKTRA
SHAPESHIFTER!" Hog held his breath, waiting for the cheers for his
opponent. What he actually heard was more like a group indrawn breath of
fear.

He noted that the Ektra had sprouted about a hundred suction cups on the
ends of its tree branches. He was going to have a dickens of a time avoiding
those. Hog danced in place, thinking hard—and coming up with very little,
strategy-wise.
Fortunately, he was saved from despair by a voice that boomed out
through the general noise: "HOGMAN, YOU PIN THIS WALKING
JELLO-SALAD, AND DRINKS ARE ON ME FOR THE REST OF THE
YEAR!" Hog grinned despite himself, and at that moment caught sight of
Hermie "Harmin' " Harmon in the front row, shaking his hammy fists in the
air. Harmin' now worked the graveyard shift at Lotusflower Assembly,
hanging transaaactional warp modules under Rigellian interstellar roadsters.
He hadn't wrestled in three years, and his physique now resembled that of a
hippopotamus. Was that what was in store for Hog, after his wrestling
career ended? Lotusflower Assembly, with the rest of the guys? Not if he
could help it . . .
Hog frowned and stepped into a crouch, facing his opponent.
The shapeshifter waved its branches. The ref gestured with its paddles,
and Hog reached out to grip the nearest branch in a handshake. The suction
cups latched onto his hand, and let go with a pop. Hog shook off the
stinging sensation. The ref leveled a paddle-shaped hand between the two
contestants, then jerked it away with a tweet! on its whistle. The match was
on.
Hog danced sideways, and forward and back, snatching in quick grabs at
the shapeshifter's branches. He was just testing, seeing if he could get the
thing off balance. The Ektra waved its branches unconcernedly. Its feet
remained planted. Hog circled, trying to make it lift its feet and follow. The
Ektra didn't turn at all; it just waved different branches at him as he circled.
Where the hell were its eyes, anyway—on the leaves? And what would
constitute putting this thing on its back? he wondered.
"Cut 'im down, Hog!" he heard, in the dim distance of the sidelines.
Harmin', cheering him on. His friend sounded as if he were miles away.
"You don't have all day, Donovan—go in after him!" he heard on the
other side. Coach Tagget, offering helpful strategy.
Hog shrugged off a negligent grab by one of the branches, and without
thinking launched his attack. He shot forward, low, grabbing for the base of
the shapeshifter's trunk. It was a purely instinctive move—go for the single-

leg takedown, whether the thing had legs or not. It worked better than he
could have expected: the branches waved madly above him, and some of
the suckers came down on his back. But he got good penetration, and
wrapped both arms around the Ektra's trunk. He got one knee up under him,
and lifted, hard.
The Ektra didn't budge. It was holding itself down not so much by its
roots as by a large sucker at the base of its trunk. Hog grunted, trying to
break it free. As he strained, the Ektra's branches were clinging to his back,
though fortunately the fabric of his tights top kept it from getting too secure
a grip. Grunting harder, Hog dug his fingers under the edge of the tree's
suction base. He heard his coach's distant voice: "—the hell are you doing?"
"Gaaaahhhh!" With a roar, Hog pulled up with his fingers. Sploook. The
Ektra came loose from the mat, and he had it in the air like a heavy
Christmas tree. He staggered, turning with it, trying to tip it over. The tree
was snatching at his back and his arms. Hog lost his balance and went over
sideways, taking the tree with him.
Even as they fell, he could feel the thing changing shape. By the time
they hit the mat, the Ektra was an extremely slippery snakey thing, sliding
out of his hands. Hog tightened his grip, trying to keep it from getting away.
But it was impossible; it had some sort of coating that made it slick as hell.
He scrambled to follow it on the mat, desperately trying to hold on long
enough to get the takedown points.
"Queeeeeee!" whistled the shapeshifter, and with a convulsive jerk
slithered out of Hog's hands.
"No points!" brayed the ref, prancing alongside.
Hog glanced up in frustration. He was sure he'd earned the takedown
points, even if he had to concede a one-point escape. Was this ref going to
be an impossible-to-please type?
The glance was a mistake; it distracted him from his opponent. By the
time he looked back, his opponent was gone.
Whufff!
His breath went out with a gasp, and he felt the snake's coils wrapping
around him from behind. How could it have moved so fast? he thought
uselessly, as he struggled to jam his elbows down into the coils to protect
his ribs from the rapidly tightening pressure.

"Queee-ee-eeeee!" chortled the snake, in what sounded like a merry
laugh. Prelude to strangulation? Hog wondered. The next coil whipped
around his ankles, and he fell to the mat like a hundred and thirty-eight
pounds of frozen meat.
"Two-point takedown!" whinnied the ref.
"Augggh!" Hog grunted, trying to keep from rolling onto his back. The
snake was trying to get him to do just that, but it didn't have a firm enough
hold on his legs, and he was able to scissor hard and gain some leverage,
getting himself halfway up to his elbows and knees. "Hunhh! Uunhh!" He
was struggling just to breathe. He could feel himself sliding a bit inside the
slippery coils, despite the pressure. If only he could slide out . . .
In fact, he was moving a little, squirming in the coils. "Unhhhh! Unhhh!"
He inhaled as hard as he could, held his breath a moment, then gasped it out
and jammed his elbows hard against the coils. He pushed them down by
about a foot.
The snake tightened like a vise around his hips. His progress stopped;
the coils were smaller than his hipbones. "Auuughhh!" Hog groaned,
blinking at the sight of the ref leaning close, maybe to make sure he was
still breathing. If he wasn't turning purple now, he never would be!
He heard a din and a stamping around him. The crowd was loving it—
probably hoping he got squeezed to death.
Coach Tagget was yelling something, but he couldn't hear what it was.
But another voice reached him through the cacophony: "HAWWWWG—
SLAM 'IM TILL HE LETS GO!" he heard distantly.
Hermie. And good thinking. Hog huffed, raising himself on all fours,
lifting the snake's weight. He suddenly went flat, hitting the mat as hard as
he could, right on the snake's coils. He felt them loosen for an instant, and
he squirmed frantically . . .
Tweeeeeet!
The snake gave a last squeeze, then relaxed its grip as the ref halted the
action.
"Warning!" brayed the ref. "Slamming is forbidden! Warning number
one against the human!" The ref waved his paddle-hands.
Hog gasped, trying to catch his breath. Warning or not, he had a fighting
start now; they would resume the match from a one-up one-down position.

As the coils unwound, he lumbered to his feet and walked in a brisk circle
to shake off the effects. Then he knelt back down on his hands and knees.
"Shake it off—shake it off!" he heard his coach yell. "Now stay out of
those coils!"
Hog glanced back to see if the Ektra would take another shape. But no—
he could only change shape while the clock was running. That was a
regulatory concession to the nonshifting wrestlers: the shapeshifters had the
advantage of versatility of form, but they were momentarily vulnerable
during the change, and for a few seconds following, while they "got into"
their new forms.
"No delay!" called the ref. This time it was yelling at the shapeshifter.
The Ektra seemed to be having trouble deciding how to situate itself on the
top position over Hog: it had no hands or feet to place on or near him. "Rest
your head on his back!" the ref instructed.
"Queeee?" protested the shapeshifter.
"On his back," repeated the ref. "No delay, please."
"Queeee," it answered.
Hog felt the snake's head touch the center of his back. He glanced over
his shoulder and saw that the creature was arching over him from a base of
coils on the mat, and was indeed touching him just on the center of the
back. Good. He just had to move faster than the snake.
Tweet!
Hog launched himself up to a standing position, whirling away. He felt
no resistance. "One point escape!" called the ref. Hog spun around to face
the snake.
"QUAAARRRRRRRRR!" roared the creature that was facing him—no
snake now, but an enormous, maned animal with a mouth full of large teeth.
(TERROR! TERROR! I'M BIGGER THAN YOU!) Hog backed away,
startled. He tripped on the heel of his sneaker and fell to his knees.
"QUAAAAAAAAAA!" bellowed the Ektra, charging. (BARE YOUR
GNEEPHITZXX . . . !) echoed its psicry.
For an instant, Hog was paralyzed with fear—like a man who'd stumbled
in front of a rabid lion. Do something, he thought. Get out of its way! Then
something in him snapped, and instead of using common sense and fleeing,
he leaped straight at the charging beast with a bloodcurdling Tarzan-yell.
"AAAHH-AAAUUGGHHHH!" He was going to meet those teeth, and it

would all be over before the ref could tweet his whistle, but he couldn't stop
himself.
The Ektra lion halted in midcharge, bewildered by Hog's furious yell.
Hog slammed into it, grabbing it around the neck. The damn thing was
all fur and air; it weighed the same as he did, but at three times his size. The
Ektra went over like a bowling pin, perhaps too surprised to react.
BLAAATTTT!
Tweeeeet! "No points!"
Hog rolled away from the shapeshifter and leaped to his feet. "Whaaat?"
he yelled. "I had him—"
"End of first period!" called the ref, strutting away on its four centaur
legs, ignoring Hog's protest. Hog sighed, wheezing for breath. Damn, this
wasn't looking good. He had to do something.
"Ref, you blindfolded nag! If that wasn't a takedown, what was it?" came
a scream from the sidelines. Hog kept his back to his coach as Tagget
demonstrated proper Earth sportsmanship. Not that Hog didn't agree with
him.
He turned and stared at the leonine alien, whose unreadable eyes were
just shifting from Hog to the ref. (I crush you.) "Quaaaaaa?" it asked the ref.
"Call the toss!" whinnied the centaur, holding an oversized poker chip in
its paddle-hand. The chip was red on one side, blue on the other.
"Quaaaa," grumbled the Ektra.
The ref flipped the chip. It fluttered and landed red side up on the mat.
"Up or down?" it asked, pointing to the Ektra, who had apparently called
red.
"Quaaa," it said, with a shrug of its furry shoulders.
"Ektra up! Human down!" announced the ref, pointing to the center of
the mat. Hog knelt and assumed the position.
"No teeth, shapechanger!" yelled Coach Tagget as the lion-thing
positioned itself with two large paws on Hog's back and its mouth open,
breathing hot, fetid air straight down on the back of Hog's neck. "No biting
allowed!" shouted Tagget.
"QUAAAAAAARRRR!" answered the beast with a terrifying rumble. (I
SQUEEZE YOUR—!)
"Get up and away from him!" Hog heard through the ringing in his ears.
The ref peered at the two, raising a flat hand. Tweet!

Hog scrambled, and felt the lion all over him. It felt heavy, and it was
quick, and its breath made him reel. But it had to be tiring with all that
movement, and maybe Hog could wear it out. He soon realized something,
and the lion must have, too. Except for its teeth and claws, which it couldn't
use, it had no good way to hold onto him other than hugging him in a
smothering embrace and staying on top of him. If Hog could just shoot his
legs out to the side and keep moving . . .
He felt the Ektra changing shape even as he did so. He made it partway
out of the Ektra's embrace, then lurched to stand up. He turned, hopping
back and away—and was nearly free when he felt a tentacle whip around
his left ankle. He hopped harder, trying to jerk away, but the tentacle was
faster. He managed to turn to face his opponent, and found the tentacle
attached to something that looked as if it had crawled out of a very dark
lagoon. God only knew what planet the original was from. It had a head like
a moldy stump and two squidlike tentacles that sprouted from the head, and
it was trying to snake its other tentacle around Hog's right leg. Hog hopped
madly to evade it, and the lagoon creature responded by hoisting his left
ankle to a ridiculous height, practically to his chin, with the first tentacle.
Hog was left hopping like a crazed ballet dancer, struggling not to lose his
balance.
"Krrrreeeee!" screeched the lagoon-thing.
"F-f-f- . . . says you!" gasped Hog. No, don't talk to it! he thought. Save
your strength, save your strength. He jumped, trying to lever his weight
downward to break free, but the tentacle's grip was tenacious.
"You can do it, Justin!" screamed his mother's voice, from somewhere.
"Get yourself out of there, dammit, Hog! How'd you get into that?" he
heard, from another direction. He was completely disoriented with respect
to the room; he could only focus on the mat, and this infernal creature.
He jumped higher. The tentacle went higher. He still didn't break free,
and now his leg was up as far as it could possibly go, and his hamstrings
were screaming.
"Krrrreeeeee!" urged his opponent.
"Scree you!" Hog retorted angrily.
Tweeeeeeeeet! The ref strode forward, breaking the impasse. It turned to
Hog and waved a paddle in his direction, while braying to the scoring table:

"The use of abusive language is prohibited. One point penalty against the
human!"
"What?" Hog gasped, limping away from the Ektra.
"References to the opponent's progenitors are strictly forbidden!"
scolded the centaur with the whistle. "Assume the position."
"Ref—you piece of Arcturan fungus!" screamed a voice from the
sidelines. "You mold, you donkey! You wouldn't know a foul if it came up
and plugged you—you—!"
Hog ignored his coach's rantings and assumed the position.
The centaur was staring coldly in the direction of the sidelines, but it said
nothing, until the shapeshifter had hunched behind Hog, its tentacles on his
back. A little too firmly on his back, Hog realized. "Ref—wait a min—"
Tweet!
Hog was a moment slow in moving, and the shapeshifter had its
tentacles around his waist by the time he was into his standup. He was on
his feet, but he couldn't break free, and he began lunging one way and then
another, trying to loosen the thing's grip. He dug his hands down under the
tentacles to break their hold. Yes—he had them loose! "Aarrrrr!" he snarled,
spinning and bracing his feet outward. If he could just arch, he could
complete the escape . . .
He staggered a little, as the Ektra pushed him backwards off the mat.
Tweet! "No points!"
Hog cursed under his breath and returned to the center of the mat. This
time he was ready.
Tweet!
He was up, turning, leaving the lagoon-creature on the mat . . . except for
the tentacle that whipped out and caught his ankle and jerked his leg high in
the air. "Gaaahhhh!" Hog roared, hopping . . . hopping . . . hopping . . .
Time seemed to slow and twiddle its thumbs as he danced, evading the
second tentacle, while struggling in vain to escape from the first. He edged
slowly toward the out-of-bounds, and the lagoon-creature slowly dragged
him back.
Time took a coffee break. Time went out to an early lunch . . .
And Hog hopped . . . hopped . . . hopped . . .
Would the period never end? he thought desperately, throwing his weight
up and down with fading strength. Would time never run out on this eternal

second period . . . ?
BLAAATTTT! went the buzzer.
Tweeeeet! "No points!" called the ref.
Hog gasped, as the Ektra released his leg.
"Shake it off, Hog—shake it off!" "Go, Justin—!"
He gulped air as he staggered in a circuit around the mat, before going to
assume the top position for the final period. "Whattza score?" he rasped to
the ref.
"Three to one, Ektra," the ref informed him.
From somewhere overhead, the strains of country-western music filled
the gymnasium.
* * *
For Earth, Hog thought dizzily, focusing on the form of the creature
before him. Do it for Earth. Do it for wrestling. For wrestling. For the
tricrystal medal. Just gotta do it, somehow. You're on camera—the only
human left.
"FREE DRINKS, HAWWWG!" yelled Harmin'.
Tweet!
He hurled his weight into the lagoon-creature, hoping to topple it over.
His only hope now was to turn it over for the fall. He felt its weight giving
way . . . altering shape under him. What the hell was it going to be this
time?
For an instant, he felt a disgusting slime under him, as the Ektra's form
dissolved. Repulsed, he involuntarily loosened his hold a little, and as he
did so, a hundred and thirty-eight pounds of Ektra bounced up into his chin.
He almost lost his grip, but somehow recovered his balance and thrust
himself against the Ektra with all the strength his legs had left.
Boing.
The Ektra bounced back against him.
Boing.
It bounced away from him, veering unexpectedly to his right, and doing
a backflip out of his arms. He threw himself against it before it could get
completely away, tackling it and carrying it out of bounds.
Tweeeet!

Panting, Hog took a good look at his opponent as it settled, more or less,
into position in the center of the mat. It looked like a large coil spring inside
a knotted sock, and it seemed unable to stop bouncing completely, even in
the starting position. It bobbed and jittered at a sort of idle speed, reminding
Hog of his Uncle Wainwright, who could never sit still, bouncing and
gumchewing his way through entire ballgames—and who had often
belittled Hog for choosing wrestling over basketball. Hog glared at the coil-
springed Ektra, and imagined it shapechanging into his Uncle Wainwright.
With a silent snort, Hog settled behind the Ektra and placed his hands
carefully on its trunk, prepared to tackle it as viciously as he could. The
centaur-ref peered at him for a moment, seemingly unable to decide if his
positioning was legal. Then it flipped its paddle-hand. Tweet!
Boing.
Hog lunged into the bouncing shapeshifter, and bounced with it, boing,
boing, right off the mat. He got up glaring even harder. Time was running
out, and it didn't do him any good just to hold the thing down, he needed to
pin it. But how could he pin a coil spring? The one thing that encouraged
him, as he watched it bounce back to the center of the mat, was that it was
starting to look tired. Maybe all this springing was wearing it out.
At the whistle, Hog threw his weight into it again, and landed flat on his
chin. For an infuriating, flustered moment, he thought he had lost the Ektra,
and he scrambled to get up, looking around wildly. Then he realized that the
Ektra was under him; it had splatted out into an enormous pancake with
tiny, starfish legs around its outer edge. He pushed and hauled on it, but the
thing was immovable.
"Turn it over! Turn it over!" yelled his coach, his mother, somebody.
He couldn't possibly turn it over—unless he got off it completely and
tried to flip it like a throw rug. But that would be crazy . . . it was too heavy
and too awkward.
"Warning—Ektra—stalling!" brayed the ref.
"Hog—you're running out of time! DO SOMETHING!" hollered
Harmin', from somewhere very close to the edge of the mat.
With a snarl, Hog jumped off the pancake and yanked on the edge of the
thing. It went "Querrreee!" and began contracting into a new shape. Good!
Now he could go to work on it!

The change took place in a dizzying blur, and it was not just a physical
blur. Hog felt a wave of confusion pass through his mind, and he blinked
and found himself holding the hand of, and staring into the large brown
eyes of, the most breathtakingly beautiful woman he had ever seen, or
imagined. (Come . . . come to me . . . now . . . ) whispered the psicry. She
had long, golden-brunette hair; and she was wearing a clinging silk wrap
that did not altogether cover her breathtaking . . . her breathtaking . . .
. . . and she was breathing so hard, so quiveringly hard, and pulling him
by the hand toward her with a smile that made his heart stop.
"Whoaaa—Hog! All riiiight! Go for it, man, go get it!"
The sound of Harmin's voice was strangely removed, as though Hog and
his . . . opponent? . . . had been whisked into a private place for a special
little tête-à-tête, with everyone else suddenly a very long way away, miles
away, light-years away. (Yes, yes . . . come get it . . . you will like it very
much . . . ) And, for a fleeting instant, Hog thought that was fine, just fine,
very fine indeed. For the glory of Earth fine. Oh yes.
And then maybe a whiff of oxygen reached his brain, or maybe a whiff
of astringent alien breath, because the hypnotic spell slipped just a little,
and his heart seemed to beat again, and with a start he realized that he was
sinking to the mat, allowing himself to be drawn into the arms of this . . .
about to pull this gorgeous creature on top of him, this . . .
"Get that goddamn tramp off you, Justin!" screamed someone, his
mother.
. . . Ektra shapeshifter.
"Awwwww, jeeeez!" he panted, struggling to get his brain clear, and
realizing he had about one second before he'd be flat on his back under
this . . . sex-crazed . . .
The woman's weight was already shifting for the pin. And his mind was
still fogged . . . but not quite so fogged that he couldn't make one last,
desperate hopeless move.
He reached down and tickled her in the ribcage.
"Breee-heee-heeeeeee!" shrieked the shapeshifter, erupting into helpless
laughter and losing its hold.
Hog scooted out from under it, but managed to keep his fingers in there
tickling. He was gasping from the exertion, but his gasps were drowned out
by screams of laughter . . .

"Kreee-hee-hee-(stop)-hee-heee-kreee-(stop)-heee-hee-hee-(please
stop!)-hee—"
Hog struggled to disregard the psicry pummeling his mind. He hugged
and cradled this creature, far and away more gorgeous than any woman he
had ever even fantasized about, cradled her in a fabulous embrace . . .
tickling mercilessly.
"Kreee-hee-hee-(stop please stop!)—"
"HOG, TEN SECONDS LEFT!!!"
The thing's laughter was contagious, and Hog fell on her, nearly laughing
uncontrollably himself. And he pressed her back down to the mat, his left
arm crooked in a careless reverse-half-nelson, his right hand tickling just
below those magnificent—
Whack! Tweeeeeeet! "Pin! The match goes to the human!" brayed the
centaur-ref.
And he almost couldn't make himself stop tickling her now that he had
her down, but the roar of the crowd was enough to make him look up in a
daze, and the first thing he saw, past the four legs of the ref, was Harmin'
Harmon jumping up and down like a dancing buffalo. His friend's voice
was drowned out, but it hardly mattered. And the second thing Hog saw
was the centaur bending down to look at him with apparent puzzlement in
its eyes.
"Human, I am unsure how you did that," the ref said, waving its paddle-
hands. "But congratulations. And if you don't get up off your opponent, it
will be a shame that you will be required to forfeit the match . . . "
"Huh?" Hog released the Ektra with a start and sat back on his haunches,
blinking in amazement at what he had done. He stood up shakily, and
extended a hand to help his opponent up off the mat.
The Ektra-woman was pouting as it rose. But after a moment, its lips
quivered and reformed into a smile . . . and then into a beaming grin. A
grin? Hog thought.
"Earth!" "Earth!" "Earth!" "Earth!" "Earth . . . !" A chant had started in
the stands and was growing in intensity. They were banging their seats now.
"Number One!" "One!" "One . . . !"
"WAY T' GO, HAWWWWWG!" bawled Harmin' Harmon, striding up
and down the sidelines, fists in the air.

"Look at the camera, Justin—look at the camera!" His mother was
practically on the mat, pointing up into the stands at his father and the
fastcam.
Hog grinned weakly and looked back at the Ektra. It was still a dazzling
creature, but her grin had continued to widen, bright teeth sparkling, until
the grin seemed to take up most of her face. And then Hog realized dizzily
that her face was slowly disappearing, leaving only the grin. And he stood,
blinking, watching the grin fade last of all, until the Ektra was gone
altogether. And Hog turned in bewilderment to the ref, who was looking
toward the scoring table and didn't see any of it happen.
"Justin! Ask it to do that again! Your father missed it!"
Hog turned around, waving in confusion. "Say, uh—" he croaked to his
absent opponent, "nice match!" And found himself thinking, Is it true? Is it
really true? Did I win the tricrystal medal for Earth? The only human in
history to win a tricrystal? And then the centaur-ref trotted back to him, and
hoisted his hand in victory, and Hog forgot his doubts and waved
triumphantly to the crowd. And when he turned, he saw a large, iridescent
lizard rising up as if from the very substance of the mat and turning to
shuffle away.
"Hey, Ektra!" he cried.
"Breee?" said the lizard, looking back. (We like semiconductor medals
better, anyway. (I lie!) (I lie!)) it whispered in a psicry.
Hog laughed happily and patted it on the back. "Great match, guy. Next
time don't be so ticklish!"
"Breee," said the lizard. (Done well. Next match I get the home crowd,
okay?)
"Okay. See you around." Hog trotted off the mat, waving again to the
crowd, and fell into the congratulating arms of his mother and Harmin'
Harmon. He hardly even heard their voices, or the voice of Coach
Tagget . . .
"Drinks on me, just like I said . . . "
"Where'd you learn to do that sort of a thing with a woman, Justin . . . ?"
"Donovan, just like I been tellin' you, the brain is the most
important . . . "
But if he didn't hear what they said after that, he did hear the chants of
Earth! Earth! and he could already feel the tricrystal medal glistening and

breathing in his hand. And he heard a centipede voice hissing, "Kreeeepy
kreeepy earthman— sssee you nexxxt yearrr on Meetsssnepp Fffive, hah-
hahhh! Zerrrro grrravity unlimited, suckahhh . . . !" Only this time Hog just
laughed out loud and didn't even bother to look as he headed for the
cameras, as the Vegan's voice faded back into the waves of HOG
DONOVAN! HOG DONOVAN! TRICRYSTAL EARTH . . . !
Bye-bye Lotusflower, Lotusflower bye-bye!
*****
[Return to Table of Contents]
OceanofPDF.com

Love Rogo
Behind the story:
This story, in a way, is responsible for my starting my first novel. Not
because of its success, but because of its initial failure. I wrote this early in
my career. I think at the time I had sold two short stories, and was basically
planning to keep working short until I had enough of a track record to take
on the big kahuna, a novel. I'd been collecting increasingly encouraging
rejections from the esteemed editor Terry Carr, and I sent this story to him
for a new anthology I'd heard he was editing. Back it came, with a letter
saying essentially, "I like this! But it's not right for the book I'm doing. In
the meantime, I've made a deal with a new publisher to line up new writers
to write novels. I could get you a contract and an advance, if you write me a
sample and an outline. Would you be interested?"
Would I? Yes, I would. I wrote three chapters and an outline in record
speed, and soon had a contract for my first novel, Seas of Ernathe.
But what about "Love Rogo," the story he'd liked but hadn't bought. My
thought in writing it had been to target it to a book of scary SF stories, not
quite horror, but almost. The trouble was, I don't really like horror stories,
and so I went at it from a different angle, a story that doesn't really have
scary events, but is scary in its implications. That I could like, and could
write. That's the story I wrote that Terry liked but didn't buy. I sent it instead
to Roger Elwood, who also was editing anthologies at the time. He got right
back to me, and said he knew exactly where it belonged, in a volume called
Futurelove: A Science Fiction Triad, along with a story by Ann McCaffrey,
and one by Joan Hunter Holly. Futurelove was published by Bobbs-Merrill
in hardcover, and was picked up by the Science Fiction Book Club as an
alternate selection. It never did appear in paperback, though. In fact, until I
brought the story out as an ebook single a few months ago, it never saw
reprinting after the SFBC edition.
I'm pleased to include it in this volume, as one of several very different
takes on encounters with the alien.
_______________

Why I sensed that Rogo would enjoy a walk on the Sea Cliff Terrace I
don't honestly know, but I had the afternoon off and wanted to give my new
friend a treat. Even then he seemed to be "our" B-mot, though we had
hardly had him long enough to decide whether we wanted to keep him. He
had looked so helpless sitting at our door, and he was such a thoroughly
pleasant fellow, and Janice liked his name so much—I couldn't foresee that
either of us would ever want to send him away.
Too bad, that.
Rogo looked more or less like a dog most of the time— although as I
watched him galumphing with me along the pedestrifare he seemed more to
resemble an oversized bumper-pillow with four feet and two eyes. At other
times he looked like a brown earless bunny, or a down-covered basset
hound with small pointed ears where the big flappers should have been. B-
mots change in their appearance from time to time, which is awfully
disconcerting, and until I adjusted to it I was forever thinking my eyes were
trying to be funny.
Rogo charged on down through the public doors and sat eagerly waiting,
his head twitching in the breeze. There were relatively few people about,
and it looked to be a fine day outside the plexopolis. I hurried to join him,
glad to smell the fresh salt air after two weeks indoors. "Feels good, eh,
Rogo?" I luxuriated in the air from the sea; my cheeks livened at the cool,
washing, shoreward breeze. Rogo perked his ears and twisted his head
around with a doglike grin. We crossed the broad Terrace to get to the sea-
railing, Rogo romping ahead of me and planting himself blissfully at the
rail, facing seaward. As I caught up with him, he barked, without bothering
to look around. His "bark" was more of a sigh, like air crying from a
balloon whistle, pitched high and sliding down to a melancholy moan.
"Yeah, that's nice, Rog', you're absolutely right." The view was superb:
the ocean splayed out in lines and streaks from the Terrace-topped cliff,
breakers and distant whitecaps glittered in the afternoon sun, and from
somewhere at the base of the cliff the cascade and crumple of water like
repeating landslides kicked spray almost high enough to wet the Terrace. I
leaned out over the railing, eyes half closed, gathering a hint of salty mist in
my nostrils, against my face. Seen through slitted eyes, the sky itself was a
blue-gray cotton sea, a shifting matrix of interloping currents of fluid and
light and vertiginous depth. There was a sense of saturation in the sight,

sharpened to a clear crystal by voices in the air, voices of walkers, loungers,
lovers, arguers—and, over all, the lumber and hiss of the sea.
Sitting just close enough to hug my leg, Rogo was breathing with a soft,
repeated sigh, a sound that was something between a purr and a contented
hum. I liked his presence; he did not seem at all like a stranger. "Rogo,
boy," I said, "I think we're going to keep you." And I swear he understood.
He craned his ruffed neck and looked up at me with his small mouth partly
open and his eyes filled with solemn and total devotion. Touched by this
display, I batted him gently on the nose.
Too soon we had to start home for supper, and that meant a good four-
section, three-level hike into the plexopolis, the enclosed city which the
Terrace bordered like some giant's flowing mantel. As usual, my timing was
precisely wrong; I have a knack for stumbling into the worst rushes on the
pedestrifare. We were pushed and harried and delayed all the way to the
Clarendon Level, and at times I had to swing my arms like a turnstile just to
keep mindless pedestrians from trampling Rogo. But through an hour of
curses and elbows and body odor I not only kept my temper, I kept my good
humor— and that was astonishing. I saw boredom, impatience, vicious
ugliness on tired and hungry faces, but somehow it keyed my senses, made
me brightly aware that there was life around me; and I found that the more
turmoil I saw, the more alert I became. Rogo woofed and grinned whenever
some moron stumbled over one of us, and while that may not seem like
much, it kept me jolly, kept me happy, and kept the whole ridiculous
business somehow in perspective, so that I could absorb the brutal jostling
and dish it right back, all without losing an ounce of good spirits. I have no
idea how he did it. I guess it was just his crazy B-mot manner.
I felt so good when we got home, I almost raped Janice before she could
say hello.
"Aren't we frisky today!" she yelped in surprise, escaping from my
clutches like a veteran. "What's got you so friendly?" She was starting to
laugh.
That, I thought, was unnecessary. She looked terribly appealing in her
clingy saffron houserobe—which was curious, since I had told her any
number of times that I didn't like that robe. "Dunno," I said over my
shoulder, going into the bathroom. When I came out again, I peered into the

microcook to see whether anything was cooking—nothing was—and said,
"We're keeping Rogo, okay?"
"Huh?"
"He's great company, and—look at him—we can't turn him in to the
Commissioner. Who knows where he'd wind up? He trusts us—look at
that." She turned and looked. Rogo was sitting respectfully by the door, as if
waiting for us to finish the discussion and cast our votes, thumbs up or
thumbs down. His fur was camel-brown at the moment and exceedingly
fluffed, and he looked at us with dark, gumdrop eyes, ready to leave at once
if that was what we wanted.
"We really don't have room, you know, Lackey dear."
"How much room can he take?"
"Well, I don't know—we'd have to get a permit." Her eyebrows were
crunched together very thoughtfully.
"So we'll get one tomorrow. What do you say?" I took her by the
shoulders and smiled, disarmingly, I hoped.
"Hmm. Okay." She grinned and kissed me suddenly. The sneak—she had
been sold all along; she had just wanted to make me work for it.
"Rogo, you're in!" I shouted, hugging Janice fiercely. Rogo allowed
himself a woof-sigh and settled down for a nap in his new home. Janice and
I settled in for our own kind of celebration.
The night improved as it went along. While we didn't get around to
supper until quite late, we enjoyed each other more that night than we had
in ages. It was funny, because we had been snipping at each other for
months, and suddenly that was all behind us. It was as if all those months
had been a long pause, as if we had been holding our breath, and now we
were free to tumble even more desperately into love than before. Rogo lay
serenely near the foot of our bed while we made love, and his occasional
wistful sighs filled our moments of silence nicely, making it all seem that
much more right. The night fled quickly as we slept in tired, tangled
peacefulness.
Though I felt springy and spry in the morning, I wanted to call in sick at
work. But Janice talked me out of it, saying that she had to go to school
anyway. So I went to the office and to my astonishment was afflicted by a
sudden rush of interest in my work. Now, a job shuffling government
personnel forms is not a likely target for enthusiasm, but I found myself

actually reading documents I had handled for years, and suddenly I was
marveling at the intricate nonsense that government paperwork entails.
Employment histories, regional residency histories, mating histories,
security ratings . . . I not only worked my full five hours; I stayed a half
hour overtime.
When Janice got home from her art classes, we went down and
registered Rogo at the Pet Commissioner's office:
CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRY OF RESIDENTIAL PET
Description of pet: B-mot. Name of pet: Rogo
Circumstances of acquisition: He acquired us (stray).
Veterinary clearance documentation: To be obtained.
Name of owner(s): John Lackland; Janice Lieberkind.
If joint ownership, length of prior cohabitation: 1 1/2 years.
Residence of owner(s): 924A-K Third Floor Clarendon
Level; same.
Occupation (s) of owner (s): G-11b Reg. Gov. Person. Clerk;
Student.
Soc. Sec. No. owner(s): 3-647-55-6915, 3-654-82-9164.
Permit number, pet (to be assigned by Office of Commissioner):
Bmt-34895AK.
. . . and so on and on; there was lots more of the same sort of thing.
Three pages' worth, not counting duplicates, and I examined it all with great
care and delight. Then, once he was official, we took old Bmt-34895AK to
the nearest vet, who pronounced him fit and healthy. This was basically a
formality, since B-mots are considered immune to terrestrial diseases
anyway, but we needed the clearance note for the Pet Commissioner. By the
time we were finished with all the tape-running, it was too late to do
anything recreational that day, so we went home and hatched a plot for the
following day.
I'd had a premonition that my new-found enthusiasm for work was likely
to wear thin rather quickly, so instead of putting it to the test, I shuffled
some papers bearing my own name and secured myself a week's advance
vacation, beginning immediately. Janice, meanwhile, arranged for someone

to cover for her in class. It was an outrageous thing for us to do, and we
knew we'd pay for it later, but we were in the crazy high of having a good
time for ourselves, and we just said, What the hell? So we made our
excuses and ran, with Rogo.
We headed up the coast by train, several hundred kilometers north and a
hundred or so inland, to Mount Adrexica—the man-made mountain which
neither Janice nor I (nor, presumably, Rogo) had ever seen. It was an
impressive edifice, appearing to be a hybrid between a real mountain and
some of the old amusement park varieties; according to the guide literature
it had been built largely out of industrial glassy slag and clinkers—urban
refuse from an entire region—and sealed (they sounded as if they were
joking) with Lake Erie dredge spoil. The basic lumpy mountain was then
cut and shaped with fusors and carefully triggered landslides, filled,
planted, landscaped, and finally frosted with snow and even a small glacier
near the summit.
After checking into the Winterside Lodge, we spent the better part of the
afternoon just gawking at the mountain from the various overlooks, finding
it utterly entrancing: sleek false-winter snow capping the upper slopes and
curling down and around the lower ones, here sweeping along a smooth-
carved ski run, there dropping from an overhang down an ice-ornamented
precipice. Skiers swam like dots and clusters down the wrinkles and ridges
of the mountain's skin, then zipped out at the bottom onto a great wide
apron of fresh powder. No ski lift was visible, just skiers disappearing into
the mouth of the underground elevator like bowling balls into a hidden
return. Janice was interested in the people rambling in and out of the chalet,
brightly plumed and muffled folk with skis under their arms, a few of them
with the longer and slower old-style skis, and everyone chattering and
laughing, as if the crisp bright aura of the mountain had exorcised all spirits
but glittering enthusiasm.
After a while, we hurried down from the promenade ourselves and went
outside onto the snow. Rogo at first poked nervously at the edge of the icy,
powdery stuff and sat himself down just clear of it, sighing and grinning
wolfishly; but finally, with a lot of whistling and foolish giggling, we
coaxed him out into the snow and got him romping like an excited puppy,
bouncing and digging and coming up with snootfuls of snow. Being
lowslung, he was never quite able to lift himself clear of the white stuff, so

he looked as though he were swimming or belly-crawling, when he was
actually just trying to walk. His fur rippled in the air like satin ruffles,
gradually turning a pale buff, and it probably would have turned as white as
a seal cub's coat if we'd stayed out long enough. When he focused his jet-
black eyes on us to announce that he was getting cold, we raced with him
back to the patio and the fireplace warmth of the chalet.
Around on the Summerside of Adrexica was the Gladepool, and that was
where we headed next. It sat beneath straight, tall, snow-topped cliffs which
split outward at the mountain's foot to shoulder a vale lush with vegetation,
with a crystalline blue pool basin at its lower end. The air was heated,
moist, and ripe with a flowery sweetness and the scent of ferns. We started
our exploration with a stroll through a wide grove between the Summerside
Chalet and the pool.
Here the only bit of unpleasantness marred a near-perfect day.
A tired-looking man stumbled toward us from somewhere off in the
grove; he was leading a gray B-mot, not quite so large as Rogo, and he was
drunk. Before he was even close, we smelled the Erythraean gin. "Hey,
there!" he shouted—to whom, we didn't know. Janice urged me ahead,
hoping to avoid him, but the man called out again, and this time it was clear
he was addressing us. He walked up, swaying unpleasantly close to my
face. "That beast of yours," he said, staring at me with a glazed, drunken
intensity, "that thing is going to be a troublemaker; look at 'im."
I looked at Rogo, standing docilely. I looked at the man. "What?" I said.
"Yah, you say that. Here, now, keep him away from my Ricky." Rogo
had noticed the other B-mot, and the two animals were touching noses but
showing no great excitement. The man toed Rogo, who backed away
hastily, looking insulted. If he had hurt Rogo, I would have slugged him.
"Yah, you stay away from my Ricky," he grumbled. He looked around
dazedly, suddenly ignoring us. He turned, coughed hoarsely, and croaked,
"Place sure isn't all it's billed to be, is it?" Then laughed—an ugly, drunken
laugh.
My good mood was gone, and I was becoming angry. What right, for
god sakes, did this pitiful fool have to spoil our day? "Listen," I said,
straining to keep my voice level, "there are a thousand other places you can
go if you don't like it here." Janice was harrumphing, plucking at my arm,

but now that this ass had bothered us, I was going to make it clear to him
that I didn't like it at all.
"Sure, sure," he said blandly. "You and the woman getting a real charge
out of all this, huh?" He chuckled obscenely, leered at Janice, looked back
at me, and turned away.
"Listen, you—" I started, raising my fists, but Janice had a firm grip on
me now. The epitome of calm. She caught my eye and shook her head. She
knew damned well I had no tact when insulted, nor did I have intimidating
bulk or the blessing of an agile tongue. In any case, the man was walking
away with his Ricky; we had been forgotten. "Let's go, Rog'," I growled,
and let Janice pick a new heading through the woods.
I was burning, my pride and my dignity offended, but I rather relished
the feeling—it was the first genuine anger I had felt in months, and it was a
purging anger; not boredom or frustration, but good honest malice. I
gripped Janice's hand tightly as we walked, smelling the wood-green smells
of the grove, feeling the spring of fallen pine needles under my feet, and
living my anger to its fullest in the rushing world sealed in my mind—until
the anger had burned itself pure and my good humor returned. The
transformation was as cleanly perceptible as the rush of a clear liquor's
vapors to my skull. We left the woods and walked at the edge of the pool
basin and sat in the grass under a warming sun. Janice smiled at me, glad to
see me happy again; the incident seemed not to have affected her at all. I
touched her nose with a finger, stroked the front strands of her hair. When
Rogo poked his head between ours to get his share of the affection, I
roughed him up vigorously, and he sighed in perfect contentedness.
"We'll remember this," Janice said later, walking with her hand in mine
around the pool. The water was utterly flat, a clear blue in the midst of the
verdant leaves. The pool was fed from beneath, the basin an asymmetric
funnel, darkening in the middle to its indiscernible source. "Mm-hm," I
answered. Janice talked that way when she was feeling very close, very
gentle, very much in love—and that was how I always answered.
Rogo lurched and nipped at the pool's bank, and we laughed quietly as
we watched the sun breaking up behind the trees as it sank, and watched
each other and were as happy as we would ever be in our lives.
* * *

No one seems to know just how the B-mots acquired their peculiar
name. No doubt I have failed to ask the proper individuals. All I know is
that they were brought here a few years back by the visitors from
Betelgeuse—those gangling fellows who toured Earth with all the fanfare
and spotlights. They brought along some of their pets, which after the
official welcomings they displayed enclosed in strange little spheres for all
the scientists and media people to see and record. They had a regular
sampler of Betelian native stock, including plants and fishes and land
animals. Under scientific supervision, some of these were released into
Earth-type environments; a few died, but most were adaptable to Earth and
appeared quite harmless. This was all very enlightening scientifically, no
doubt, but the scientists could hardly have predicted the spectacular
popularity of one animal, the B-mot, for which even one-time viewers
developed a quick and unshakable adoration. The B-mots were the new
darlings, and they seemed to love people as much as people loved them.
Eventually the powers that be decided that it was all right to turn them
loose, and the Betelians happily provided several hundred for distribution.
The B-mots bred like crazy, and soon it was possible for nearly everyone
to have one. According to the Betelians, they would reproduce as long as
they were happy, but not to excess—they would never breed in burdensome
numbers. It seemed to be true; at least, I had never heard of anyone's
wanting to wish them away. The Betelians themselves, I believe, went
home. Don't quote me on that—some of them may still be around
somewhere.
To Janice and me, Rogo was an all-new experience, and we learned as
we went along. For a time, it seemed too easy—he ate little and kept
himself clean—and we were lulled into believing that the cost of owning
him would be no greater. He occupied a great deal of our attention, though,
mainly just by being lovable, and we thought this a blessing. He was always
jolly, or, if one of us was angry or depressed, sympathetic—the perfect
companion.
Janice usually got home before I did and would often take Rogo out for
some exercise and play—which was fine with me, until I began coming
home to a place that was empty until suppertime. Eventually I chided her
gently about this, and she blushed and promised never to let it happen
again. "But," she said wryly, "who greets Rogo so effusively that half the

time he forgets to say Hi to his beloved roommate, hmm?" Well, she had a
point there. I grinned sheepishly and promised, et cetera, and we were both
happy again, at least for a while.
My work started to get me down, though, mainly because of my boss.
Mrs. Curtzen is a vicious old lady at heart, I believe, and when she chose to
interrupt my peaceful reverie with her grating voice next to my ear, I would
virtually shrivel on the spot. "You didn't have enough time on your
vacation, Mr. Lackland?" would come the singsong-query nagging. A
scowl, a shrug, and then back to looking as though I were working. Ah, but
the reverie! Ever since the beginning of our trip, I had felt a glow in my
fingertips, a sharpening of my senses. I was filled with marvelous
conceptions of space, colors, smells, temperature rhythms, sound flows.
Strange perceptions constantly at my notice. From my seat at work I had a
perfect view of the lines, the depth of the office, the play of light on the
curves of the desks and chairs. I listened to the heartbeat in my head, and
noticed little twinges and tickles in my nervous system—signals, I suppose,
of discharges, systems clearing the boards or recharging for the next round.
Pleasant, intriguing—but I wasn't getting much work done. "Mr. Lackland,
shall I call the supervisor and tell him you're not happy with your work?"
Damn woman. I'd shake my head, dive energetically into my work.
When I wasn't lost in a symphony of senses, I was lost in thought,
wondering why not; what was wrong with me?
I told Janice, and she gave me a Well, what can you expect? look and
said, tugging at a piece of yarn on a tapestry puzzle she was making, "You
ought to start thinking more like a robot when you're at work. Save some of
that creative energy for me. You've been slipping a bit lately, you know."
Was that the best she could do? I had to act like a robot; did I have to
think like one, too? Hey, wait a minute! "Who's been slipping? Me?" She
slid one lip up over the other, half-smiled, shrugged. She would say no
more, but she watched me as I walked around for a while, frowning and
wondering.
We had gotten into the habit in the evenings of taking Rogo for walks in
Clarendon Park, an indoor arboretum with some flowers and trees and a
small aviary, all housed under a geodesic dome at the edge of Clarendon
Level. It was a convenient place to let Rogo run. Out the right side of the
dome, one could see, in staggered fashion downward, the lighted domes of

Berkeley and Arlington parks, while above and to the left were the
stepping-slab undersides of the upper-level parks, all dark and shadowy.
The real attraction, though, was the Clarendon garden itself. Rogo liked to
poke around the shrubbery; he snuffed his way curiously, with almost feline
delicacy, rarely touching anything, even with his nose. Janice and I simply
enjoyed the view and the flowers, and watched Rogo with his insatiable
interest. It struck me as a curious thing that he was an alien from another
world, because to us he was just someone with whom we shared our lives.
I was almost afraid to say it, but finally one night I remarked to Janice
that I was getting a little tired of the park. Actually, I thought I was just in a
soul-slump at the time, because I hadn't been enjoying much of anything
lately. "Maybe it's the dog shit," she said dryly. I chuckled and dropped the
subject, but I wondered what had prompted such a nasty remark. That was a
long-standing annoyance to her, but she had been carefully keeping it to
herself for harmony's sake. Well, one would have had to suppose that there
was B-mot shit involved, too, although B-mots tend to be more discreet
than dogs.
More deeply disturbing was her behavior later that night, when she
became coldly cranky for no reason I could fathom. Rogo and I had worked
up a game involving our polywater bed, which he loved bouncing around
on, especially when it was rolling like surf. We played a sort of keep-away,
with me jouncing the mattress energetically while Rogo fumbled with a
Floppo-Ball too big for him to hold in his jaws which lurched and bounced
crazily—and that was what Rogo did, also, romping and stumbling, and
somehow always turning on his nose. B-mots do not normally turn on their
noses. Rogo thought it great fun, and he could have gone on long after I
tired.
I thought Janice was angry because she felt neglected. But when I
apologized, she scowled and punched another videocassette into her study-
deck. "If you're that crazy about him, go back and play," she muttered
sullenly.
"Hey!" I went around in front of her so she would look at me. "Don't you
like him, too?" Of course I knew she did; something else was wrong.
"Sure. I'll get in my hour another time." She ignored me, pretending to
study. I was amazed; I couldn't believe she was seriously jealous of Rogo.

Dumbly I went back to sit beside Rogo. I wondered what was going on,
and why I wasn't doing anything about it. I should have tried to get her to
talk, but for a long time I didn't; I was hurt, and I just didn't want to. Finally,
Janice accused me of not caring very much. "I care," I said defensively. But
she didn't want to believe me, and she wouldn't listen. "Janice, talk to me
now—don't just be mad."
Arched eyebrows. Back to her studying.
I sensed that jealousy was not the problem. It was something else—
chemistry, brain waves, something. Okay, every couple has occasional bad
nights. We'd been lucky to have had so few.
Before we went to bed, she said, "I'm sorry, Lackey. I'm not mad at you
or Rogo. I'm mad at myself."
Which helped not at all. Rogo knew what was going wrong —oh yes—
but by the time I understood, my world was far too far gone.
Shortly thereafter my work began to improve, in a manner of speaking. I
was growing numb to it and was therefore less distracted, which kept Mrs.
Curtzen off my back. In point of fact, I was growing numb to quite a lot of
things. My walk to the office took me through a variety of neighborhoods,
past noisy and interesting shops on Berkeley Level, but I found myself
arriving at work or at home with hardly any impression in my mind of what
the walk had been like. It was not that I was failing to pay attention; I saw
the shops, the signs, the displays, the milling people, but none of it was
sinking in; none of it mattered; none of it seemed worth remembering.
I was frightened, in the way one might fear a potentially serious and
protracted illness. I had always prided myself on my appreciation of things
around me. Perhaps it was just the weather outside, the season, the ions in
the air. It was temporary; things would return to normal, I thought. But
somewhere within me I suspected otherwise.
Then Janice confessed to me that she had been skipping her classes for
the past two weeks. I was surprised; I didn't know what to say. "What have
you been doing?" I asked.
"Walking," she said, "sitting at home, going out. Sometimes I take
Rogo." She tried to smile, but the smile was an impoverished effort,
flickering on her lips like a futilely struggling candle flame.
I started to tell her what she was risking by skipping school, but she
stopped me immediately. Yes, yes, she said; but she couldn't concentrate,

she was bored. "Oh." I had thought she liked her classes. "What's wrong,
anyway?"
She looked at me very strangely for a long minute, as if she thought I
knew very well what was wrong. She had not reckoned with my obtuseness,
however. "My paintings: they're dull, gray, worse than nothing at all." She
said it very emphatically, very dejectedly. Then she walked out into the
kitchen and left me standing with a strange tight pressure across my chest,
in a room full of emptiness, as if the air had exploded out of the room. I sat
and stared into the distance of a blank blue wall and wondered how it was
that everything I prized was tumbling, going to gray, turning flat; I was
hardly aware that Rogo was beside me, absorbing the strokes of my hand on
his fur with muffled, healthy little sighs. When he moaned and caught my
attention, I realized that my hand was on his ruffed neck, and I jerked it
back as if bitten; and I wondered, Now, why did I do that?
* * *
Later, I found Janice walking in a slow dance around Rogo, studying
him as if he were a statuette for sale in a gallery. She stooped, touched his
middle with her fingertips, looked exasperated and thoughtful. Rogo looked
oblivious. "Measuring him for a dress or for the cooker?" I asked her.
"Mmm," she said, paying no attention.
"How's that again?" She still ignored me, so I tapped her on the arm.
She looked up, startled. "Hi," she grunted. "I was just thinking that this
fellow is getting a bit big. And I wondered why."
"Feeding him too much." We fed him hardly anything.
"Uh-huh. John, how sure are we that Rogo's a guy?"
"The vet said so."
"Well, can little boy B-mots get pregnant?" She knelt beside him,
stroking his flanks gently.
"Well, why don't we ask the vet? Never thought about it, myself." The
idea was mildly disturbing, but I figured that taking him back to the
medicine man would give us something to do.
We did, and he was. Pregnant. According to the vet, he still was a he, so
we learned something else that day: B-mots are androgynous, or something
along those lines. We did not press for a fuller explanation, because frankly

we were too shocked at the thought of having a prospective mother on our
hands. Rogo took the news calmly, silently.
On the way home Janice told me she didn't know whether she wanted to
keep him. Our nice male pet was going to fill the living room with babies—
that was a very alien thing to do, she said. And there was something else
about Rogo that bothered her, but she chickened out of saying it, and that
was as close as we came to bringing our growing suspicions into the open.
(Now, why were we afraid? Was it some extraordinary embarrassment, or
was it just part of his power over us, his charm that we were afraid to
question or insult? Or were we merely stupid?) Janice kept me awake half
the night, staring at me in the gloom from her side of the bed. "We can't just
throw the poor guy out," I insisted logically. "Besides, you used to like him
too."
"I do like him; he's adorable! But he's got me suspicious. What do we
really know about him?" That he was turning us into glassy-eyed nervous
wrecks? That was what I thought, but I didn't say it. Janice turned her back
to me, making it clear that she considered the situation hopeless. Before she
went to sleep I reminded her that we had a few weeks yet to decide before
Rogo's babies were due.
I hadn't forgotten that Rogo was no Earthling. But only now did it occur
to me to wonder why he had left his last owner . . . or why he had been
thrown out. Could he have been pregnant that long ago? Had his previous
owner reacted the same way as Janice? Should I not have thought through
all of this long ago? Such questions skittered around in my head until I went
to sleep—and then returned when I awoke.
But we were just being foolish. He was ours now, and he trusted us, and
Janice was stirring up trouble over nothing. Ha, ha—right?
"Isn't that true, old boy?" I asked, hoping fervently that he would agree.
Rogo sighed, sniffed, and stretched out his chin on the carpet. I sat on the
floor and watched him. He knew he was under discussion, and it was
hurting him. I felt rotten about it. When Janice went out for a while, I
confided in him. "For some reason we're not getting along too well, Rog'."
He knew I meant Janice and me. "We haven't—well, I don't know what it is,
really." Like hell I didn't. But it looked as if I couldn't say it, even to Rogo.
Well . . . all right, I would say it. "I'm not . . ." He looked up at me, just
moving his eyes. "We're not getting through to each other, Rogo. Not

anymore." As if he didn't already know. "We're . . . I'm trying. It's not your
fault, boy."
Coward. Shameless, groveling, sniveling coward. Was this beautiful,
alien animal so innocent? Wasn't he self-assured and full of life now,
watching me flounder in a morass I couldn't even begin to understand?
Nothing was getting through, for sure. Nothing was getting to me at all.
Nothing. Now, not even the rottenness I had felt just moments ago. Could I
be that numb? Could my gut feelings, my senses, be wafting, evaporating,
disappearing from my body, like sweat from a dying man in a desert? For a
moment I felt a harsh thickening in my throat and a fluttering spasm of the
diaphragm. I shut my eyes tightly, tensed my muscles, and waited for it to
go away—and it did; a feeling of profound, tearless despair wrenched at me
with a vicious grip and in an instant left me tingling emptily, with the
faintest nausea, wondering if I would ever feel any such emotion again.
Rogo studied me sadly: perhaps a bit fatter, a bit stronger.
I kept my distance from Rogo most of the evening, but that was as
decisive as I became. When Janice came home we talked, not very
interestedly, and passed the night. Rogo watched silently from his corner of
the room, no sign of playfulness in him now. Janice puttered around in the
kitchen for a while, then sat with me watching some nameless program on
the big screen. We exchanged a few words, no touches, no expressions of
comfort, none of anger. I assembled a wire-model tree kit; she worked on
her tapestry puzzle. When our eyes met, it was with a start, an aborted surge
of energy—and then we would be like strangers, or separating friends.
Some part of me was crying for help, but the cry was coming faintly
from some closed, sealed place within. I was horrified at what was
happening, at its suddenness, but I could find no handle to it, no way of
knowing just what it was or how to put it into words. I was a man staring at
myself with helpless eyes from some remote location, not able to speak or
touch, but only to watch, to feel a secondhand anguish. I cut my finger,
carelessly twisting a piece of wire on my model; I observed a small, dense
globule of red liquid growing on my skin and wondered why, if it was
blood, there was no pain.
Two days passed, and I sank steadily deeper into this quicksand as
though wallowing in the self-pity of a futile love. Janice spoke not at all of
things that mattered, and I could only assume that she too was suffering: but

where were the words for asking? I quietly ceased caring, like a man
drowning in a carbon monoxide slumber.
Janice found the will to struggle when I did not. How, I don't know—
perhaps she was more immune, or simply stronger. She took me to the Sea
Cliff Terrace, having insisted on leaving Rogo at home. It was a stiff,
breezy day outside, the water and sky colorful and shifting. "He's got to
go," she said, facing the water. There was no anger, no passion in her voice,
only a firmer determination than I had suspected she possessed. "He goes
before he ruins us completely."
Before? I almost laughed, but I stopped myself: it would have been a
cheap laugh. Instead I said, "Isn't it a bit late for that?" I looked out to sea,
searching for something to move me from dead center.
Janice stared into my eyes with what I thought might be anger. I knew it
was no longer the pregnant mother she was worried about; it was the
lovable, love-stealing alien himself we were harboring. "Is it too late?" she
demanded flatly, still not sounding angry.
I thought about it. I continued searching the water, blue and a bit gray,
churning up and down. I said, "We can't leave him out in the cold. He loves
us; we have a responsibility to him." God, still I was defending him!
"John!" Her voice rose violently, suddenly filled with hysteria. "What
about us, what about ourselves?" I shrugged; I didn't know. "Do you know
what he's doing to us? Haven't you ever wondered why those bastards,
those aliens, were so goddamn generous with their damn animals? Haven't
you?" The woman was shrieking, actually scaring me.
"No!" I shouted in defense and alarm. But I had, and I knew she was
right. And the more clearly I saw it, the less capable I seemed of acting on
it. This was happening to someone else. There was an airy silence all
around our nook of the Terrace; the sea crumpled quietly on the rocks
below; a gull cried out over the water. So what? it cried.
"John."
"What?" She had been speaking to me, but I hadn't heard her.
"I said, Do you still love me?" She looked at me, glanced away, then
back again. I was startled by the question, not because she had asked it, but
because she had given me no time to prepare for it. I looked slowly, blindly,
in several directions. I nodded vaguely, deflecting the question like a limp
ball.

"Okay," I said suddenly, "he goes." The lie passed so easily from my
lips. I loved Rogo; I wasn't going to get rid of him.
Janice nodded with real understanding and looked at me with crushed
eyes, in a defeat that once would have broken my heart.
* * *
Rogo, I say, staring solemnly into his eyes, why did you come? To stay
until there's nothing left to stay for? To move on, to do it all over?
He looks like a great unshorn poodle, gray and fluffy, sprawled
uncomfortably under my stare. I can't hate him for being what he is. I can
only love him, and be sorry. How long will you stay, Rogo? Did we last as
long as the people before us? Will you need a more nourishing home so
your babies can grow?
Do you suffer for us, Rogo?
I can only stare, loving him with what memories of substance remain in
my heart, and absently, futilely, I wonder how he does it.
Rogo himself makes no answer. He just returns my gaze calmly, sadly,
with those dark unblinking eyes which reflect so faintly, yet so clearly what
he has stolen.
*****
[Return to Table of Contents]
OceanofPDF.com

What Gods Are These?
Behind the story:
I don't remember much about the circumstances surrounding this story,
or for that matter, exactly where my head was to be found at the time. Kind
of a dark place, I think. I was in my late twenties, single and not happy
about it, frustrated by the sluggish pace of my career, and tired of working a
long series of boring and unrewarding jobs to pay the rent. I had no belief in
God at the time, but the world in general felt like it was filled with false
gods—gods of money, power, and vanity. I suspect I was also responding to
actual religious movements I saw around me—movements that seemed to
have an unhealthy "us versus them" mentality, and that I felt wanted to drag
the rest of us into their sphere of influence whether we wanted their
"wisdom" or not. It probably seemed like just the right time and place for a
devastating alien invasion. Maybe aliens who styled themselves as gods.
Maybe aliens who saw themselves as benevolent gods, even as they
destroyed our world and carried us away as captives.
What wretched gods? That was the working title of the story, and of the
first version that made the rounds, before another rewrite and polish landed
it a spot in Galileo magazine. Galileo was a sibling (or descendant) of
Fiction magazine, where my first story was published. (See Reality and
Other Fictions for that one.) Among the new writers I shared the pages with
were the soon-to-be-renowned Connie Willis and John Kessel.
My bio in the magazine described me as a full-time writer. I must have
been feeling my oats on that score when I sent in my bio information; or
maybe it was wishful thinking. I was, at the time, living in a very cheap
apartment with three roommates, so for a brief time I did technically
achieve that enviable state. But it didn't last long. The economics of writing,
especially for a new writer who wrote fairly slowly, dictated otherwise.
Soon I would be writing a long novel, The Infinity Link, which took me
years to complete. Soon I would be working again as an office temp, or
sorting packages for UPS.
There were times, I think, when an alien invasion would have felt like a
relief.

I'm in a much better place now, but I can still relate to the dark
determination of the protagonist of this story.
_______________
The gods have not yet come, but they will.
I believe I am not alone here, though I don't know who is with me.
Hanging cockeyed to my uncertain frame of reference, I stare at my Earth
with sorrow and hate, wanting to curse it, to destroy it before the gods have
it all. My visor fogs momentarily, as though to remind me of my
helplessness. I am weightless: orbiting, falling . . . falling. Motionless . . .
only the Earth moves. My ruined planet is a cool cheek bulging over my
right shoulder, a delicate cloud and water ball, the stage of a hopeless drama
against the house-darkness of space. On its dim nightside crescent, I see one
or two cities burning, tiny embers. Slowly the planet drifts further around to
the right, where it will pass behind me for a little while, behind the station.
As I float with my boots hooked on a twisted bit of station girder and stare
for hour after endless hour, I have the feeling that Earth is nothing more
than an enormous sop, sweeping debris out of space, and grit . . . and
mindless, gabbling spacemen.
No. It is the Saviors who will do that. They will not miss a one down
there. And on their way back up they will find you here, whispers my soul.
Find you waiting, helpless.
The thought sets me on edge. Hiding here behind the wrecked ferry
shack on an arm of ruined Spacehome, my radio silent, whisper of spacesuit
air for company, I pretend that I am safe, yes, from the preying Savior
ships. They will find the others and take them, but I will be safe. And
yet . . . to be left here uncaptured to die in peace—what a terrible, lonely
end. I float, boots anchored, and watch that great ball against the black sink,
now moving slowly out of my angle of view. The sun flares across the
girder arm, white against the infinite black, and suddenly the endless,
falling orbit of the station steals the breath out of my soul. Has the Earth
turned an anesthetic green, or is that merely a distortion of my trembling,
leapfrogging mind?
When I turn to follow the Earth, I see near its rim a short flare, a leaping
spark: a Savior ship. Then it is gone, and I cannot say whether it was a ship

climbing into orbit, or one diving into the filmy atmosphere—or, after all,
nothing. Imagining marvels and dangers and possibilities has become my
only pastime. Must I lose that, too, when they come?
* * *
In my Wooster, Ohio home, there was a dream I had, before I left again
for the East—before panic blazed through the human race like fire through
kindling. The dream was puzzling but clear, still vivid upon my awakening:
Humans filing serenely, by the thousands, through the wards and halls of a
great, sighing ship of the stars . . . drinking liquid tranquility in cool
draughts from a communal fount . . . peering, each in turn, through a
fabulous viewing-lens at the stars drifting by, and at the star-beacon ahead
which would be the new home, after readjustment and reeducation . . . the
Saviors, tall and fair and milky-faced, counseling, teaching the difficult arts
of kindness and moral judgment . . . incorrigibles: deftly realigned and then
set to work aiding those less fortunate . . . the grave joy of lying together in
endless communal sleeping rows, mating at need, with that solemn bliss
denied no one . . .
The dream left me intrigued, but I became uneasy when it recurred, and
continued recurring. And then I learned that Jim Pfeiffer, next door, and his
wife and young child had also dreamed it; and then MacNamara, and then
my cousin Sue and her husband—and the list grew, until the whole town
rumbled about dreams of starships and "Saviors." Visions of the Saviors,
tall and swift and fair, singing: "Disturbed children, come this way, we come
for you." Inevitably, there were outcries to the coming angels, the Coming
of the Lord, the vindication of the Revelations—but I joined those who felt
other feelings in the premonition, who listened for night sounds which
turned out to be merely windrush, who jumped at footfalls which were only
friends and lovers coming round, who woke from the recurring dream
drenched with sweat. A dream of gods, or would-be gods. With (I was sure)
many others, I felt a rising apprehension—but I had no family close by with
whom to share my fear, and so I kept it to myself.
I came east, destined eventually for the Space Center, just days before
the Saviors arrived and the skies erupted. But by then the location hardly
mattered, because suddenly we were all—every human—foxes before the
hounds. We were on our own; the armies had been swept away, the nuclear

arsenals silenced, the lasers and missiles unmanned. Not a few cities (I
heard) were burning. And through it all was the question asked of the
astonished night: Why?
* * *
The view of Earth palls in the slow passage of hours blinked away on the
chronometer. Once the stunning magnificence of my homeworld caused me
to cry; but now the treasure tarnishes, leaves a film of dust across my eyes.
No longer can Earth console my gaze, nor can I console myself with
thoughts of life gone by, of people and places loved, of deeds done and old
joys and sorrows. All of that is behind me now. I have hardly moved, these
last few hours—except for falling in silent clockwork turns about the Earth.
The station tumbles slowly. Three times, night has crept over North
America since I docked the shuttle; but, two days ago, the station's control
system died of cut control wires.
Sabotage: therefore, I know I am not alone.
Whoever shares Spacehome with me does not wish to be seen,
apparently, and though I have kept my eyes open, I have made no real effort
to search. A ruined space station offers many hiding places, and if my
companion wishes not to be found, I will respect his privacy. Strangely, I do
not fear him (or her)—though I wonder at the motive for sabotage. What
else could he be except a human, and what is one man's irrationality to me
in this hour except, perhaps, a small comfort?
When sunlight has crept over northern Africa, over the auburn deserts, it
is time for me to replenish my suit. Gently, I disengage my feet from the
bent frame of the ferry dock, and with one hand on a girder I float around to
face the shambles, gleaming in weightless sunshine. Torn shrouding floats
like golden kelp, still attached to the exploded side of the once-magnificent
structure. The station has been smashed open like a piñata, leaving ruptured
skin and a wreckage of cross-members, broken decks, ripped wiring and
plumbing. A tiny plume issues from within the wreckage, fuel escaping
from some slowly leaking valve or joint. This is how Randall and I,
arriving, found the station—to all appearance lifeless, airless, several
vacuum-frozen bodies floating inside which had not drifted off into space. I
had known only one of the dead men; Randall had known all three. What
could I say, how could I begrudge him his despair when he took his own

life to join them, leaving me so alone? There was nothing for me to do but
to follow him into death, or to radio Earth, if there was anyone left to hear,
and to gnaw my microphone and clench my stiff fingers and sweat inside
my stinking suit, waiting to be captured or to die. I listen to the station
whisper to me, and wonder if I shall go mad.
Perhaps there remains some token of usefulness here, something with
which to fight. There must be some way to fight. It is hard to believe that
the Saviors were frightened of this station, but why else destroy it? Did they
think it a threat to their plans? Why did they leave a lurking ghost, my
companion? There are no answers—only nightmarish questions, the stuff of
an endless, dark, whispering orbit.
The shuttle orbiter, docked alongside, stares at me with somber eyes.
With insufficient fuel and a faulty guidance platform, it will take me
nowhere I wish to go; it is no longer my friend. I pass by it in the ferry
cradle as I work my way, hand over hand, toward the station proper,
irrationally but doggedly conserving reaction-jet fuel. Earth moves behind
the body of the station; from over my left shoulder, the sun glares onto
metalwork, spilling shadow in disconcerting patterns before me. I float to
the undamaged side of the station, where the lock gapes open, perhaps for
eternity.
The airlock comes alight at the touch of a switch; my saboteur has not
struck here. So accustomed am I to the infinity of space that in the airlock I
fight for a moment with claustrophobia. But I need what it offers: the
resupply panel. Hoses and cables plug into the appropriate fittings on my
chestpack—oxygen first, a full and luxurious suit flush, cool and indecently
pure for my stinking body. Now a battery swap, water and liquid lunch
refill, waste bladder dump. The CO2 scrubber I change with great care—all
it takes here is a valve failure to turn me into a bloated stiff like the others.
Finally I am finished, and good for another day, if I conserve. God, how I
have come to hate the inside of this suit; but the only place I could shed it
would be in the shuttle, and I avoid that shuttle, which stares at me, an
estranged friend.
As I float back out of the airlock, I am startled by a rough giggle of static
in my earphone. Twisting around, banging back against the airlock hatch, I
wonder—have they come? But no, I realize, that was a real giggle, muffled
by static. And there: I see my saboteur, a spacesuited figure drifting on a

tether behind the telescope array. I stare for a moment, squinting because of
the sun, and then I move toward the spaceman. I approach with some
caution, because I assume the man to be mad. His face is a golden fishbowl,
gazing blankly at me.
"Who are you?" I say, stopping just out of his reach. I think of shouting,
but my voice comes out quietly, the three days of contained fury still
remaining contained.
He giggles again and says something, but the words are smothered in
static. I adjust my receiver, and the next time his voice is a little clearer.
"Nevermore," he says, and suddenly he rolls, like a man turning over on
a mattress. I see my own golden-visored helmet framed in his. "Hah," he
says, apparently enjoying himself. "Nevermore."
Something evil slips out of its containment in my soul, and I struggle
hard to suppress an urge to assault this man and strangle him through that
steel collar. What has brought me to such a pass, to have a lunatic for a
dying-companion? Forcing myself to be calm, I say, staring at the blank
golden face, "All right. I get it, mister. Nevermore—you're a raven, right?
Shall I call you the Raven?"
He chokes, gasping, laughing. "Oh perfect!" His voice hisses in my
helmet. "Raven! Yes, I am Raven!" He bursts into a coughing fit, and I grab
a girder to support myself and club his helmet furiously with my fist. He
falls silent. Then he says, mutedly, "They will find us here. You know that
—don't you, Grum?"
"Uh—" I say, my stomach reeling at his words. "Yes—I know." I
swallow and glare at him. "And how the hell do you know my name?"
He answers with silence, and we look at each other, one fishbowl
mirroring the other; and I think, yes, they are coming, and I must think of
something to do about that.
* * *
The sound of footsteps died away in the night. I had hesitated, to see if
they were human feet, but it no longer mattered; they were gone. Everyone
was gone from the city, it seemed—escaped or captured, mostly captured.
Taken by the enemy. Taken. The word echoed in my mind as I crouched in
darkness at the end of the second floor corridor and fumblingly counted the
shells remaining in the revolver. Four—no, only three. Three shells? Yes. I

didn't even know what building I occupied, but then, no building offered
real cover. The handgun was hard and moist in my palm, in a hand which
had never known such an instrument. My hand itched, tingled, clenched and
unclenched the butt of the gun, palming it, fingering the grooved metal,
seeking the feel of death in its hard form. Resisting an impulse to hurl the
gun away, I grasped it carefully and curled my finger about its trigger.
The day before, the Saviors had come down again from the sky,
sweeping up great numbers of people who had escaped their first assault. In
this city, there were now only a few holdouts, and we would not be
forgotten, I was sure. Exactly what was happening in the world at large, I
couldn't say—there had been no radio since yesterday. But it was clear that
the rest of the world would fall soon if it had not already; Savior ships had
come down in every nation, and the lights moving in the night sky
suggested that there was virtually no end to the Saviors' capabilities. Our
forces had perhaps scratched the enemy's face, but the military ranks had
been the first to vanish. I had heard no report of successful resistance. But I
had heard the Saviors' voices: "Come with us, children, to a place where we
will be safe! Come and worship your gods and learn to give up your
quarrels! Come in peace!" Yes, I had heard the Saviors' voices—their god-
talk—as much as I could stomach, and more.
After that, they took John and Cath, my friends in the city, and they
nearly took me. So silently they had followed us in the streets, as we fled—
they did not seem to need to see us or hear, they just knew where we were
and where we were going, and they followed with impossible speed.
Gangling figures, the Saviors followed as stealthily as cats with see-through
eyes, their minds everywhere singing: "Come, dear disturbed ones, come
and be made whole." They followed relentlessly, and each time they
reached forth with sinuous arms another person shimmered and was gone.
I stumbled, and I sprawled in the street. Faster than I could recover, John
whirled and fired upon our two pursuers, but a third appeared from nowhere
and entangled Cath. She shrieked and clawed futilely, and I leaped to her
aid, only to be flung aside by an arm I couldn't see. The pavement slammed
into my face, and I came to a halt against a lamppost, stunned—and I
witnessed the end, half-aware, as though watching a movie from a
groaning, dying projector. John's gun cracked, and a Savior crumpled face-
up under the streetlight. John turned to free Cath, but there was no clear

shot for him, so he assaulted with his fists. In a moment he, too, was
ensnared by the Savior's arms, and he struggled like an impaled fish, mad
confusion in his eyes. Cath was beginning to glow, her face becoming
translucent and yellow, and her plea soundless but clear: Don't let them take
me alive! The gun cracked again, starring her forehead like glass; and the
crystallized, dying Cath shimmered and vanished in the yellow transport
glow. The gun clattered across the pavement, knocked away by an indignant
Savior—and John glowed, shimmered, and was gone, too, to whatever
Heaven awaited him. The Saviors gathered their fallen companion,
murmuring, and together they disappeared.
A shocked, staggering survivor, I retrieved the gun and slipped on down
the street, moving with the shadows. Eventually I took shelter where I could
find it, in this abandoned apartment building. My adrenaline courage was
gone, replaced by frightened exhaustion, and I rested without sleeping.
There was food in darkened cupboards, and I wolfed down a sickening cold
can of stew, washed with lukewarm orange juice. Grief was beyond my
reach; my thoughts and emotions were locked up like a bound engine. The
darkness ticked, rattled huskily with the breath of night. Vaguely, I
wondered what was becoming of the rest of the world.
A pat-pat of footsteps sent me scurrying to huddle at the end of the hall,
eyes moving constantly. In the predawn hour I made myself more familiar
with John's gun, with the smooth, darkly gleaming steel, the three
cartridges. The second patter of feet set me into a crouch. I glared down the
corridor, weapon aimed. A movement—I squeezed, the gun flashed, crack.
Through smoke and momentary deafness, a pitiful cry tore my nerves,
echoing down the corridor. A fallen, wounded enemy? I took an uncertain
step forward. No—not an enemy. A dog, whimpering in agony. A hideous
knot seized my throat, and tears rushed fiercely to my eyes, carrying the
grief I had been unable to summon for my human friends. Creeping,
stumbling forward, I tried to whisper comfortingly to the animal, and my
voice cracked as pathetically as the dog's. His whimper quieted; he
struggled to rise from the shadow, then fell. I could not leave him.
"Still, boy!" I cried hoarsely, trying to whisper. "Still!" Shakily, I knelt a
few feet from him, aimed through blurry eyes, and fired again, crack. And
again, crack.
Silence. Dark, hopeless silence.

Shuddering, I took my eyes from the stilled animal and slowly regained
control of myself. The gun was empty. I had not wanted that; I'd meant to
save the last bit of death for myself, if it became necessary.
I threw the gun, clattering, down the hallway. If I faced the enemy now,
it would have to be with empty hands.
* * *
"Crazy as bedbugs," Raven keeps saying. We are in Earth's shadow now,
and we've both tipped up our sunvisors so that we can converse eye to eye.
His face appears scarred, unfamiliar; he say we have met before, up here at
the station, but I cannot remember. I have learned how he knows my name,
at least. It is stenciled on the front of my left shoulder: Grumman Anders,
Pilot, Shuttle Team. The tag on his own suit is much smaller, but I think it
says, Leonard Reevin. I still don't remember him.
"Loony as lice," he says.
"Will you stop?" I explode. My head is ringing inside my helmet with his
inanities. "They're crazy, yes—they left you here!"
"My point, exactly," he says, stretching his weightless limbs. "They're
not thorough. They're supposed to be gods, but they're incompetent. Okay,
they've got power. They're invincible—to us, anyway. So why hit us up
here? They must have been scared of us, but there's nothing we could have
done to them. Some saviors. Stumblebums."
"Sure," I say, sipping tiredly at my chin spigot. "Stumblebums. That's
why they've had so much trouble knocking off the whole world. Raven,
they've taken everyone—or almost everyone, and killed the rest."
"Didn't say they weren't big and tough. I saw part of their fleet in the
scope—hell, they could clean up six planets, and maybe that's what they're
doing. Maybe they're cleaning out the whole sector, taking six new races to
their galactic happy home."
"So—"
"So, they're mad—"
"Yeah?"
"—cause if they just wanted to conquer, or pillage, well, they could have
done it a lot quicker, don't tell me they couldn't. But no—they aren't
conquerors, they're saviors, they're here to save us from our sins, they're
here to take us off and heal us!"

He is laughing so hard as he finishes that I think he must be in pain,
maybe too much stale air in his suit, or he's overheating. When he keeps
laughing, I start to worry, and then suddenly he cuts off. Silent.
"Uh," I say, "yeah—but maybe they really are God, did you ever think
about that?"
He snorts. Well, it was a stupid thing to say. But I add, not even meaning
it myself, "You know, we could have used some help. We weren't doing so
well by ourselves." He snorts again.
Dayside is creeping around the rim of Earth behind Raven. Flashy
sunrise. We both flip down our sunvisors, and all either of us can see of the
other is a curved golden mirror. He says, "Take you, Grum. You're here.
Didn't hit you, didn't hit Space Center. Call that smart?"
I back up against a telescope shroud. "Yeah, well, they did hit the Center,
they just didn't finish it. There were some people they missed, and the
shuttle was already set to go, and it doesn't take that many people to launch,
once she's ready."
Raven seems to be looking at me, but he doesn't speak. So I just go
ahead, even if I'm only talking to myself. "We felt so damn helpless down
there, and we were all going to be caught anyway, we thought we should do
something. So we came to rescue Spacehome." I chuckle sadly, then think
of Randall's suicide after our arrival in the orbiter. Mist gets in the way of
my vision, and it's not on my visor. "There won't be any more shuttles," I
say, just talking to make conversation. The crescent of Earth is blazing in
cinemascope against space.
"Glad you came up" Raven asks, without sarcasm.
I think for a minute and say, "Yes, all things considered." And it's true; at
least I took some action. The Raven's voice is a comforting rasp in my
fishbowl, what with the thought of those aliens storming our world down
below. Isn't there something more we could be doing?
Earth moves around behind me, as the station tumbles in its orbit. "Hah,"
says Raven. "They meant to get the whole planetful of us, I'll bet, and
they'll be lucky to get half the people alive, from what I heard before the
radios cut out. I wonder what they do with dead people."
"Maybe we'll see," I mutter.
"I won't," he answers. At that moment, the sun rounds a corner of the
station and glares full onto Raven's golden visor. He appears almost godlike

himself in the stunning glow—a god awaiting a greater god, and not
friendly about it. The shadow line moves off his left arm, across the
telescope shroud, over my right arm, and then I, too, am floating in full,
streaming sunlight. "I'll never see the inside of their ship, not from this side
of death," he says. He pulls in his tether and starts to move toward the
airlock. "They'll be here soon."
Following, I ask, "What are you going to do?" I ask with some hope, but
not much, that he has a useful idea.
By the time he answers, we are at the lock, and Earth is growing to ripe
fullness. "Only one thing I can think of," he says, and his voice sinks cold
into my heart. "Gonna take a good deep breath of space, Grum, and if I live
that long I'm gonna spit in their eye. Also," he says, swinging into the open
lock, "I am going to make an obscene gesture."
* * *
Man by the name of Reynolds gave me a lift much of the way south
from D.C. He drove like a madman, figuring that safety lay in speed. The
car radio hiss continuously, but he never gave up twirling the tuner in hopes
of finding a broadcast. Sometimes he asked me to do it, and invariably he
repeated the operation after I had finished. We heard nothing but static over
the engine.
"They've gotten every city by now, I guess," he shouted over the noise.
"But it'll take them a while to clean out the whole countryside, if they're
doing it all over the world."
"Making fast work of it," I shouted back. "They must have thousands of
ships. More than that."
Reynolds twisted his head to stare at me. He was a heavy, fat-browed
man, and he squinted curiously at me. To my relief—we were flying down
the highway—he turned his eyes back to the road.
"Me, I'm heading for the Georgia hills," he said. "I know some folks
there, and I've got a feeling there's a pocket of resistance there's going to
last a while." He looked at me again, as though defying me to doubt the
grounds for his belief. "You?"
"Trying to make it to the Cape," I said, gazing out the window. "If there's
anything I can do, that's where it'll be. I'd rather be on the job, I guess."
"You work there?"

"Pilot."
He absorbed that silently for a moment, jiggling the steering wheel back
and forth just enough to scare me. "Maybe you know something about these
things, then. Where are they from? Why are they doing this?" His
expression was filled with pain and anger.
"I don't know," I said softly.
He didn't hear me. "What?"
I shook my head. What did we know, really? They were from the stars.
They were gods of some kind, or they were playing god. If the dreams had
meant anything, it seemed that in their minds they were capturing us for our
own protection. I could not help being put in mind of some of the worst of
our own "protective" institutions. Had the Saviors come to help us in our
"sickness"—to take us and "heal" us under their own precepts? Or had they
come to prey regardless of what they had seen in us?
"I don't know anymore who's crazy," I said to Reynolds. What a way to
fulfill my dreams of alien contact. What would my final choice be—if I had
one? The end Cath had taken? I didn't want to die. I wasn't ready.
Countryside of forest and water-carved clay rushed by the window. What
state was this—Georgia? The last time we'd stopped for gas (our fifth try,
when we'd finally found a station with electricity to run the pumps), we'd
been in South Carolina.
Reynolds pounded gloomily on the steering wheel. The Ford started to
swerve, but he cleared his throat and steadied the car quickly. He frowned
and concentrated hard on his driving, and I said nothing, though he had
made me nervous. The radio hissed, a reminder of our isolation. Angrily, I
snapped the damn thing off. I was suddenly in mind of the Savior who had
been felled by John's bullet—his ruined face staring up into the streetlight, a
sad, milky face without a trace of anger. The hideous creature, dying, had
pitied us! The thought wrenched me with nausea. I poked tears out of my
eyes and looked up.
"Watch out!" I snapped, with a stab at the windshield. A Savior
Spaceship was landing on the highway, and a car coming the other way had
swerved across the median and was skidding across our lane, smoke and
dust spurting from its tires. Reynolds hit the brakes, and we skidded, too,
tires shrieking. I bounced back up, held by my seatbelt, and watched the
other car burst through a guardrail and vanish over an embankment.

"Hah!" cried Reynolds, his hands white on the wheel. He floored the
accelerator.
"No!" I cried—he had forgotten the spaceship—and now he braked again
and we swerved onto the berm and skidded past the bright yellow ship. The
wheels rumbled as he struggled to get us back onto the road, but it was
hopeless—we were over the shoulder and bouncing in the weeds. The
moment lasted forever, and I had time to be grateful that my seatbelt was
snugly latched, and then an embankment rose and the world slammed into
me and pinwheeled and finally halted, dizzyingly.
For a moment I was aware only of a crimson blur, and then my eyes
focused somewhat, and I saw that we sat tilted, the car smoking and
twisted. Reynolds' head was a bloody wreck in the shambles of the
windshield. Hesitantly I took his wrist; my own heart was thundering, but I
could feel no pulse in Reynolds. I clicked out of my lap and shoulder
harness, head spinning, heaved the door open with my shoulder, and
lurched out of the car onto my knees.
Tall figures hurried toward me, crying into my mind: "Do not flee, do not
fear! We bring life!" I stumbled to my feet and ran, not knowing where, just
into the woods, down into a gully, tripping, sliding finally to a rest in a
jumbled gloom of branches and decaying leaves. Time passed, no time at all
to me; and when I became aware again and made my way painfully back
out to the road, both Reynolds' body and the Saviors were gone. I brooded,
shaking, and walked south along the road.
The rest of the trip blurred, played in some disjointed time sense. A
driver stopped, hurtled south with me, and other motorists took the relay,
and then I took a car. Only after I reached the Cape did my eyes and my
mind focus to a common range. The Space Center was in chaos, damaged
but alive. A shuttle was still intact, fueled though not topped off, and there
was enough organization left to try to put the bird up. Probably there was no
point in it; but everyone was desperate to take some action, however futile,
and Commander Randall couldn't have been happier to see a second pilot,
groggy and thrashed about though I was. So we were going. Perhaps we
could do nothing but make a last stand with the crew of Spacehome, in orbit
—but if that was our only option, then that was what we would do.
Only . . . we were too late. Except for Raven, the last stand had already
been made here. And by the time we arrived here, Space Center was no

longer answering on the radio.
* * *
We prowl through the station, through what's left of the control and
instrumentation room. I am thinking about various ways of dying, and
deciding that Raven's plan is not to my liking, though I wish him well in it.
"Raven," I say, "why are you still alive? Why didn't they get you the first
time?"
Raven is off in a corner, fooling with the radar. For a moment, I think
he's going to ignore my question, but then he says, "Missed the whole fight.
I was on a scooter, couple of kilometers away, when they hit. Taking
pictures. Something told me to keep quiet, keep my thrusters off—and I was
right, they left without paying any attention to me." He says all this without
looking away from the radar.
"Funny," I say, "that was just how I missed getting caught. I was sort of
stunned, two different times when they might have gotten me, but they
didn't get me, they just left." And I go silent for a few minutes, thinking
about that. Could be that that observation would be useful to someone who
was alive and captive. But that isn't important to me now—what's important
is what am I going to do this time, not what did they do last time. Don't let
them take you alive, I think. But suicide has never appealed to me, in any
form, and my heart doesn't accept it even now. Is it less honorable than
giving myself up for enslavement?
Raven calls to me. He has his helmet face pressed to the padded eyepiece
of one of the telescopes. "Look," he says, checking the radarscope,
checking the telescope again. "Look." There is casual urgency in his voice.
I float over and look. At first I have trouble situating myself in front of
the eyepiece, but then I peer in and see it: a bright point of light, brighter
than the stars. I cannot tell if it's moving.
"It's accelerating," Raven says, looking at the figures chucked out by the
radar computer. "Too fast for a shuttle—could be aiming to match our
orbit."
With a sinking feeling, I look up at him, then look back into the scope;
but now the station has tumbled too far, and the telescope has swiveled to
its limit.

They're coming, then. It's real, it's happening; time is almost up. The
evidence presented to my eye steeps slowly to the core of my mind, swells
into my tissues like heady wine, bubbles downward like a fiery probe into
my sternum. I grasp for support on a panel but slide away like a novice
spaceman, tumbling, choking back nausea, knotting my stomach muscles to
contain a spitting primitive animal which claws for freedom. Thoughts
rearrange themselves like bits of sand on a helplessly sliding cliff. I finally
bring myself to a stop, facing Raven upside-down. In the half-light, he
looks like a costumed Savior reaching to take me.
"What are you going to do?" he hisses.
The question shimmers, dies. Yes, what? Will I be taken by these
madmen who think themselves gods, or will I deny them their victory, as
Raven plans to do? No choice seems acceptable. A chronometer ticks in the
back of my mind: how many hours, how many minutes? They are
accelerating toward us, and they know we are here. I move away from the
telescope and seek the airlock; whatever else, when they arrive, I want to be
outside to face them in the open clarity of space.
Stopping in the airlock, I notice the rack of signal rockets behind a
protective window. I pry open the window and run a gloved hand over the
launcher tubes. "Raven—"
Instead of finishing the question, I remove two of the rockets, perched in
their bazooka-launchers. Trigger-fired. I release them to hang weightless,
while I think this through; I haven't much time. The rockets would make
excellent weapons of self-destruction if I butted their exhaust tubes against
my stomach before firing them. Perhaps I could treat the Saviors to a show
of fireworks when I die. Or—
Though quaking with contained excitement, knowing I should hurry
outside to greet the enemy, I stay where I am, studying the rockets, feeling
the grip of the handles—very much like the grip of a revolver. Last time I
was given a weapon, I failed to do anything except murder a lonely dog.
Raven appears in the airlock and looks at me holding the two rockets.
"Do it!" he says, and hurries outside through the open exit port. He drifts
out of my sight, a silent fish in an infinite black sea.
He's right. I've got to do it. I grip the two launchers and follow him
outside.

"Hurry," his voice hisses in my ear. Can they be coming already? I turn
and find him, waiting among the stars.
Earth has grown ripe with color, lucid ocean blue and wisped cloud
white. She is round and beautiful, and I grieve for her. I want to make the
best exit for her I can manage. How many minutes away are they, now,
those benevolent Saviors? My suit whispers air to me hoarsely, as though
knowing that its usefulness to me grows short. My radio mutters static, a
death rattle. Shadow envelopes us as the sun passes behind the tumbling
station.
The vast planet, wheeling slowly over our heads on this crippled
carousel, eventually wanes into darkness. The sun flares blue, gold, crimson
at the horizon and vanishes. Our last sunset, perhaps—a final farewell to
our vigil. How many years will Spacehome circle, silent and empty, before
blazing its own farewell in the atmosphere? I practice holding the rockets in
various position: over the shoulder as they were meant to be fired, under the
arms in what seems like a dramatic gunslinger pose, and butted directly
against my body, where the blasts would make a pretty crater of my
abdomen. Raven watches, not asking which way I am going to do it. I
cannot decide. Do I want to die, or do I want to see their faces when I put
on my show?
"Raven, their transport beam. Do you think—?" The beam seemed to
freeze people and things; would it freeze rockets in motion?
Raven says nothing. No way to know. I'll just have to try.
Morning. Daylight over Asia, and it seems that perhaps the last sunset
was not, after all, our last. Why are they taking so long? Raven and I do not
talk, but our silence reverberates like muffled shouts, like children giggling
in the dark.
A spark, that was a spark!
No. I have seen many things I thought were sparks.
The sun flashes, splinters, and fades: another sunset. I sweat coldly for
fear that if I see another I may weary of sunsets. No! Darkness—and a stab
of light drills into my retinas like a welder's arc. A spaceship drops into
view like a power-diving airplane and brakes magically, a gleaming yellow
spaceship with white trim, mockingly cheerful. I turn to keep facing it, but
the station is tumbling, twisting away—

"Back against the wall!" cries Raven. I think he is howling a
contemptuous laugh—but no!—it is a command, and I obey, wedging
myself with my back against the station's hull. The stars wheel slowly, a
sparkling panorama of Cheshire-cat grins, watching the carousel.
In despair, I stick the butts of the rocket tubes squarely in my gut and
disengage the safeties for firing. I don't want to blink; I must time my
squeeze at the precise moment of paralysis.
The ship seems enormous as it wheels into view, a hundred meters away.
It turns to spot us, and its antenna glitters and emits a smudgy light, which
moves . . . slowly.
"Give 'em hell, Grum!" howls Raven, and out of the corner of my eye I
see his right fist jerk up, middle finger stabbing—and I think there is a puff
of air which is his life fleeing, but I dare not avert my gaze to see if he's spit
before dying—Good-bye, Raven!
Something twists in my gut, and with no conscious thought I change my
mind. I jerk the launchers away from my stomach and wedge them under
my arms, holding them tight with both elbows, finger wrapped around the
triggers. The light blossoms out from the ship, a crinkling yellow
translucence, enveloping me in its glow. My eyes shimmer and smoke
inside my skull, and my fingers squeeze the two triggers hard . . .
I am aware of vibration and spurting fire in both launchers, as time
freezes . . . becomes discontinuous, then crystalline . . . space as I knew it
no longer surrounds me, and in its place is a finite silvery gray sphere,
room-sized, and time unfreezes—
. . . the tubes vomit fire, and the signal rockets streak out and explode
with blinding white light on the far wall. Searing particles ricochet in a
sizzling hail, and through the pyrotechnics I see the figures of Saviors
dancing and falling like shadows, and then the rain spatters to a halt, and I
am aware through the smoke and confusion that I have burned at least half a
dozen holes through my suit and into my skin. For a moment, I feel as
though I'm going to pass out, but as I stumble and fall backwards I fight to
maintain consciousness for another minute. The Saviors, those I didn't hit,
are scurrying forward to capture me, and I want to see their faces before
they take me. Sinuous arms snake out to grasp me, and milky faces, scored
with pity and—anger?—peer at me; and for that one moment I know I
haven't lost, not altogether.

Raven, are you there? I'll find out for both of us what future they have
planned.
But we got them, didn't we? And some damn day I'll get them again.
*****
[Return to Table of Contents]
OceanofPDF.com

Life-Tides
Behind the story:
As with the last story, I don't remember much about the writing of this
one. Isn't that funny? Our stories are supposed to be like our children: each
unforgettable in its own way. Well, I haven't forgotten this story; I just don't
remember what was happening in my life that led me to write it. No, I
wasn't killing my brain cells with drugs. Maybe I was neither happy enough
nor unhappy enough for the period to stick in my mind.
In any case, writer and sometimes editor Susan Shwartz was editing an
anthology of stories about habitats in space, homes away from our Earth
home. It was an open anthology, and I decided to take a shot at it. My brain,
as usual, produced a story that required some stretching of logic to fit the
description of the market, and only then as long as you weren't being too
exact about your definitions. My story was about space itself being a habitat
—not literally, like a house or a space station, but philosophically. In this
particular future, I imagined that space travel had become an annoying
thing of the past. No one traveled through space to get between the stars
anymore. Everyone traveled by tachyon beam instead; faster, neater,
cheaper.
There was just one problem with this development. Maybe we were
missing something. Maybe there was something to be seen, and discovered,
and appreciated, out there in the emptiness of space. That's what one of my
heroes thought, and he decided to go see for himself. What he found was
quite an eye-opener.
"Life-Tides" appeared in Susan Shwartz's anthology, Habitats, published
by DAW Books. Its inclusion here marks its second appearance.
_______________
"The whole thing was Rueldo's idea," I said, dropping my gaze to the
pulsing red crystal on the table.
For a moment I stared at the crystal as though I had never seen a
touchglass before. Then I lifted it to my forehead and squeezed my eyes
shut, as glass harp music exploded in the silent corners of my mind. For a

few seconds I let the music roam caressingly through my head, easing the
emptiness that filled my soul; then I set the touchglass down again. The
music echoed to silence in my memory. I took a breath and slowed my
heartbeat, and met the eyes of the police officers, human and pedriquat.
"You've heard of Rueldo Vargas, the poet?" I said.
Lieutenant Amygdol shook his head. Commander Toarn, whose furry,
snouted face was framed by a pair of round velvety ears, responded by
making his nose tremble. No, he whispered, he had not heard of the
individual.
"Oh well," I said. "He was a light, sound, and subliminal mood poet—
quite well known in Landruin. A crazy old guy."
"Mr. Kandrell—please," said the lieutenant. "The facts. The details of
your journey."
"The journey—right. Rueldo's idea entirely. I just supplied the capital
and went along for the ride."
"Just the two of you?"
"And Arlysa Timbriun, our pilot." My voice weakened at that point, and
I struggled to compose myself, to orient my memory. "Our ship was Pixikin
—you know that already. We left Cervantes six weeks ago."
"Your destination?"
I returned Amygdol's stare. "Interstellar space. Nowhere. The void."
* * *
Early on in the trip, I was fascinated by everything that happened: the
piloting, the engineering and navigational details, the slowly changing
exterior view as Cervantes and its sun receded into the starry night. No
spaceman, I had only traveled in a can twice before, on amusement rides
from the moons of Aris IV. The experience was still novel and exciting, and
I enjoyed listening to the faint thunder of the converters in the ship's belly
driving us forward, and I liked sitting still, feeling the almost imperceptible
vibration in the deck.
Eventually boredom set in, and I began to spend more of my time
reflecting on how I had been talked into this venture in the first place.
My pride notwithstanding, I had been an easy mark for Rueldo. Not
more than a few weeks before, I had skeeted in on the tachyon beam to
Landruin, capital city of Cervantes—bored and lonely, and with a hundred

billion stip in my pocket. I had just concluded seven years of continuous
service to the Queen of Norphem, and it would be no overstatement to say
that I was desperately looking for something new, preferably outlandish, to
do with myself—and with my money. As a linguistic attaché to a race of
giant water bugs, I had developed for myself an admirable reputation in my
field, and with no place to spend my money, had accumulated a substantial
bank account. I had also starved myself of the stimulation of human
company for seven years, and so on my arrival in Landruin I was feeling
lost, and more than a little suggestible; and when I met Rueldo at a social
kazoo, I was instantly swept away by his eloquence and his visions.
A month later I was in space with him, bound for . . . well, bound for
empty space.
Rueldo had a theory. Space, he said, had never been truly and properly
explored. Oh sure, humanity and the others had roamed through a quarter of
the galaxy, settling and building worlds and creating bureaucracies. But that
was planets, star systems. What about space itself, which after all
constituted ninety-nine point umpty-nine percent of the volume of the
known universe? Hardly anyone used spaceships anymore; travelers now
bypassed the tedious emptiness between the stars, in favor of the
instantaneity of tachyon-beam skeeting. Some freight, of course, still went
in automated barges, and there were the occasional military flights through
alterspace; but those ships never lingered in the interstellar void of
normalspace.
"But why should they? What would anyone expect to find?" I asked, in a
feisty mood, a week into the trip. Unspoken was the question. What did we
expect to find? I was having trouble remembering the persuasive reasoning
he had used on me earlier.
Rueldo simply chuckled and poured us each a snifter of Lumion liqueur.
Arlysa, though she wasn't drinking, sat down to listen. A metaxahuman
from Toynbrun, she displayed all of the brooding competence for which her
race was famed. Her olive-ebony complexion and severely angular facial
features gave her a commanding presence. She had known Rueldo
previously and appeared to trust him, but she seemed curious to hear his
answer—though I don't think she cared much whether we found anything,
so long as she was paid.
"You're not taking me seriously," I said to Rueldo.

"I take you seriously," he said. He inhaled the fumes from his liqueur.
"Then answer my question."
He shrugged. "I've answered it before. But, all right—the point is that
space may not be as empty as everyone seems to think."
"Meaning what?" I said. Interstellar space was the best vacuum this side
of a Theropsid laboratory. An atom here, a molecule there, once in a great
while, a dirty snowball. What else was he expecting?
Rueldo glanced at Arlysa. "Do you doubt me, too?"
"Elsevier's doubts are understandable," she said noncommittally.
Rueldo scowled. "Oh, very well, then," he said after a moment. "Elsie,
boy, there's more to this than just the fevered imagination of an old man."
"I never thought—"
"Yes, you did. Now shut up and let me talk." He rubbed his forehead for
a moment, as Arlysa and I waited expectantly. He cleared his throat. "I've
talked to you before about my astrophysical theories."
"Yes," I said cautiously. That was how he had talked me into this in the
first place. His theories, and his poetic visions. They now seemed pale in
my memory.
"Well, there's more to it than that, too. There's something personal
involved—a sort of telepathic dream." He looked into his snifter, and then
up again. I waited; no one rushed Rueldo when he wanted to take his time.
"Imagine the following. There's a military pilot—call him Jorges—just
coming in after a ten-light-year crossing. Jorges has been flying solo, with
highly sensitive electronic media as cargo. The first half of the flight,
everything is fine. Then, midway, his alterdrive cuts out—no warning, no
reason. His ship drops into normalspace." Rueldo paused, arched his bushy
eyebrows in my direction.
I shrugged, and Rueldo continued. "Jorges has a total power cut-off. By
the time he gets all of the trips reset and the power back on, he's nearly
frozen to death. Finally he takes a moment to look out the window."
"And?"
Rueldo indulged me with a smile. "And he immediately questions his
sanity. First he sees nothing. Blackness. But then . . ."
I gestured impatiently.
"Things start appearing in empty space. Shimmery things, matter
forming out of the void. Hallucinatory creatures." Rueldo pursed his lips.

"Do you remember the piece I had running at the Mezzo—Antics of the
Night? That was my representation of the vision."
I remembered. "Hell of a hallucination," I muttered. "What happened
next?"
Rueldo sat back in his seat, stroking the corners of his mustache. "Jorges
drifts out of the zone, escapes back into alterspace and completes his
journey." I looked at him questioningly, and he shrugged. "I can't tell you
much more. Whatever we might see could be completely different."
I felt a chill, and stared at Rueldo for a long time. "It was a hallucination.
That was what you said."
"I said he thought it was a hallucination. At first." Rueldo looked at me
thoughtfully. "When Jorges arrived in port, his cargo was found destroyed.
The media were wiped clean, all the information lost. It was no
hallucination. Something was happening out there, something strange.
Something, perhaps, of cosmic origin." Rueldo drained his liqueur and
glanced at Arlysa.
"Better watch how much you drink, old man," she said. "We're hitting
alterdrive in a few hours." She pressed her lips together, and then added,
"You said this was all a dream, did you not?"
"It seemed in the nature of a dream," Rueldo answered. "But Jorges was
quite real. When I met him, he had already encountered so much skepticism
that he was rather bitter about the whole affair. Inducing him to talk
required the application of certain inebriants, and the resulting state was
distinctly dreamlike." Rueldo steepled his fingers, frowning in recall.
"Jorges and I are telepathically compatible—and I saw and felt everything
that he saw and felt in those minutes. My memory of the exchange is quite
clear."
I stirred uneasily. "Why didn't you tell us about this before?"
Rueldo turned his head slowly, his eyes meeting mine. "I didn't want to
bias your expectations, Elsie. I don't know what we're going to see."
I looked at Arlysa. She arched one eyebrow, and then rose to return to
the bridge. I sat with Rueldo a while longer, wondering more at my own
sanity than at his.
* * *

We entered alterspace, and then I knew how it must feel to fall down a
defective levitator shaft. In this case, we came out intact, but I had a
hangover that felt worse than the real thing. Once in alterspace, however,
there was nothing much for any of us to do; so Arlysa and I became better
acquainted.
We talked, and so on, for hours on end. Arlysa's family-group on
Toynbrun was one in which romanticism was the exception, and technical
and intuitive discipline the rule. As she talked, I caught glimpses of the
spritely young girl she must have been, a maverick among the achievers and
academics even as she learned her discipline. Though Arlysa the adult was
self-reliant and reserved, there were times that a volatile passion arose in
her, often when I least expected it.
As for myself, I would have joyfully fallen in love. During my long
tenure on the swampy world of the Norphem, I had usually had fewer than a
dozen humans for company on the entire world; and that had come on the
heels of my schooling years, during which I had been too busy, or too shy,
to avail myself much of the pleasures of social contact. My only real
relationship with a woman had come early in my school years, and the
breakup of that first love had wounded my spirit for years. All things
considered, you might say that I was about due. Still, I recognized Arlysa's
essentially solitary ways, and—aware of my own vulnerability—I desisted
from falling totally. (Ho, ho.) I tried to accept our relationship for what it
was, and no more: companionship, good conversation, physical pleasure
and experimentation.
Much of the time we stayed apart—she with her duties and her privacy,
and I with my reading and music and wiring. I asked her once whether she
was carrying on with Rueldo, too—and received an answer to the effect that
Rueldo preferred men, and it was none of my business anyway. Still . . . I
couldn't help wondering, and feeling jealous on principle—which was
stupid, I knew. Arlysa, aroused, was as attentive and demanding a partner as
I could have hoped for. She loved my . . . well . . . cosmetic surgery. The
part designed to look like a dragon. It was my one concession to an obsolete
fashion, commissioned years ago under the influence of intoxication—an
impulsiveness I was glad for now.
We were in the midst of some such diversion when Pixikin dropped out
of alterspace. My cabin leered at me and somersaulted, and by the time I'd

recovered my equilibrium, Arlysa had already ready flown off toward the
bridge, the top half of her jumpsuit fluttering behind her. I followed shakily
and got to the bridge in time to hear her cursing Rueldo at the top of her
lungs.
"You ignorant bastard! How dare you endanger this ship! I ought to
throw you overboard! I ought to let you walk home!"
She paused for breath, and pulled up her jumpsuit. She closed it with an
angry zip. Rueldo just glared back at her. Slowly it dawned on me that
Rueldo—apparently deciding on his own that we had gone far enough—had
come to the bridge and shut down the alterdrive himself.
"You are a passenger!" Arlysa snarled. "P-a-s-s-e-n-g-e-r! You do not
touch a control on this ship except on my orders!"
"We've reached the area I want to see," he growled back. "I would have
called you, but you were, how shall we say, indisposed."
Arlysa finally noticed me standing behind her, and she blushed, her olive
skin turning a shade darker. "That's irrelevant," she snapped. "From now on,
you do not step on this bridge without my explicit permission. Now let's see
what the hell you've gotten us out here for." She scowled at the instruments
for a moment, then activated the viewport.
The walls of the bridge dissolved, and suddenly we were standing on a
ledge that jutted into the fabulous immensity of the galactic spiral arm.
Stars were spattered across the heavens like a spray of molten diamond. My
stomach left me, and I tottered giddily. There was nothing around me but
blackness and stars and glowing gas. This view, I thought suddenly,
justified the trip. We were light-years from anywhere, and the universe was
playing on stage for us, and for us alone.
"Damn," said Rueldo. "There's nothing here. We might have to hunt
around." He dropped into a seat and folded his arms over his chest. "For
now, I guess we'll just wait."
Arlysa and I exchanged incredulous glances and settled into seats to wait
with him. Me, I could have waited forever.
* * *
"Mr. Kandrell, really. Couldn't you get to the point?" Lieutenant
Amygdol made a rolling gesture with his hand, and glanced at his pedriquat

partner. Commander Toarn's expression was impassive, only the stirring of
the fine hairs in his ears suggesting interest.
"I'm trying," I said. "I have to explain—"
"The disappearance of your passenger and pilot. That is what needs
explaining," the lieutenant said.
Commander Toarn interceded in a whisper. "Let us be patient. He will
tell the story as he will. If he betrays or evades the truth, we will know."
The pedriquat's eyes sharpened, and bored into mine.
I swallowed, and nodded—and struggled to recapture the thread of my
story.
* * *
Two hours later Rueldo declared that we should hop forward a tenth of a
light-year. Arlysa shrugged and performed the maneuver. After another
hour or so we emerged from alterspace and peered out at a view that was, to
my eyes, unchanged.
While Arlysa and I wondered quietly whether he had lost his marbles,
Rueldo hummed and hmph'd to himself—and finally asked for another
course correction, this time to the side. I wasn't sure I could take another
alterspace hop without getting sick all over, but Rueldo promised that this
would be the last—so I gritted my teeth and kept myself together until we
dropped back into normalspace.
Arlysa activated the viewport again, and the sky exploded like a holiday
celebration.
We were in the center of a kaleidoscope of crystalline color. The stars,
stretched and distorted, rippled as I moved my head. My eyes rebelled. My
stomach rose into my throat. What saved me from disgracing myself was
Arlysa's outcry as the ship's power fluctuated wildly and then cut off.
The controls went dark; but outside, in what should have been empty
space, waves of colored light swam like living things toward the viewport.
Starburst-flowers blossomed out of points of light. Whirlpools of blackness
opened, devoured amber and violet streamers of light, and then imploded
and vanished. The disturbance surrounded us, enclosing the ship entirely.
"Elsie, get the environment units!" Arlysa yelled. While I had been
staring, open mouthed, she had been struggling to restore our power. It

wasn't working. The bridge was growing cold, as the ship radiated heat into
space.
I darted to a locker and seized three lifepacks. I tossed one to Rueldo,
one to Arlysa, and strapped the third around my waist. When I flicked the
switch on my own, I felt its protective shield expand slowly around me. A
bit of warmth crept up my spine. The pack was working, but inefficiently;
the forcefield should have snapped into place instantly.
Rueldo was staring into space, holding his lifepack in his hand. I strode
to his side, cinched the unit around his waist, and switched it on.
A minute later, the controls flickered and slowly returned to life. "We're
moving out of its influence," Arlysa muttered, her hands brushing and
stabbing at the console. Outside, the swirling patterns were growing
transparent; the stars shimmered and shrank to points again, tiny beacons
shining through the eerie glow.
"We must not leave it!" Rueldo cried, stirring from his trance.
"You're mad," Arlysa said, working at the controls.
"No! Go back!"
I grabbed his arm. "Do you know what that thing is?"
"I'm . . . beginning to," he said softly. He turned to Arlysa and strained to
give his voice a commanding tone. "Take us back toward the center."
"I'm taking us out," she said flatly. "Before that thing kills us. If you
know what it is, start talking."
Rueldo's face grew rigid with shock. "You must take us back," he
whispered. "If we lose the center—"
"That's too bad," Arlysa said. "Ship's safety is my concern. Now tell me
what's out there." She folded her arms across her chest, and glanced back
and forth between Rueldo and her instruments.
Rueldo looked to me for support, but I was having none of it; Arlysa was
captain. Besides, I was afraid of that thing out there. Angrily, Rueldo said to
both of us, "Don't you realize how important a find this could be?"
Arlysa raised her eyebrows fiercely. "How important?"
Rueldo shifted his gaze toward the viewport. His pupils dilated visibly,
his nostrils flared, his breath seemed to slow. What was happening to him,
what was that thing doing? "Rueldo, talk to us!" I shouted.
He ignored me.

"If you don't start explaining, I'm going to set a course back to Cervantes
right now," Arlysa said quietly, her voice almost metallic in its flatness.
For a moment he seemed to ignore her as well. Then, without turning, he
said, "The quasars, you know—they've never been fully explained."
That was an answer? I shook my head in confusion. "What are you
talking about?" I said. "Quasars are exploding galaxies. They're billions of
light-years away—and what we observe are events from an early stage of
the universe. Every school child knows that. It's been understood for
centuries."
"Only partially understood," he said. He turned, his face suddenly
animated. "The energy processes—those, perhaps, have been explained,
though hardly to my satisfaction. There's something still unaccounted for,
and that's a disappearance of mass from the cores. The pedriquat
astronomer Pomprey proposed an explanation over a hundred years ago. He
suggested that interactions in the cores were so energetic that matter was
simply being squeezed out of the continuum."
"So?"
"He couldn't find supporting evidence. It was presumed that the matter
would have to reappear in the continuum—in other places or other times—
probably accompanied by large bursts of energy. Nothing fitting his model
was ever observed, and the idea lost favor."
I gestured toward the ghostly light, now off our starboard bow. "And
that's what you think this is? Matter from a quasar, popping back into
space?"
He squinted secretively. "Partly."
"What's that supposed to mean?" Arlysa demanded. She was not smiling.
Rueldo puckered his lips. A starburst erupted in the distance, bathing us
in golden radiance. "Yes," he said. "I think this is the stuff of a quasar,
reappearing as a sort of mutated white hole. But if that were all it was, it
ought to be far more energetic."
"Looks pretty energetic to me," I said.
"Yes, but it's hardly the magnitude of violence one would expect from a
nonliving, cosmic-scale process of this sort." Rueldo turned to us, his eyes
bright, filled with intensity. "Poor Pomprey—no one ever considered that
the energy might be absorbed and transformed by a living process."
"You're saying—?"

Arlysa turned away as though in disgust; but in her eyes I saw an
uncertainty that belied the gesture. She began scrutinizing her instruments
with great care, and not a little nervousness.
"What we're seeing," Rueldo said, "is life. Life of a nature and
magnitude such as no one in the civilized galaxy has ever imagined."
I stared at him silently, my stomach tightening. I felt a disconcerting
mixture of skepticism, fear, and awe. "How can you be so sure?" I
demanded finally.
He closed his eyes and breathed slowly and deeply. "I hear them," he
said very softly. "Their voices, or—perhaps not voices, exactly, but
something like that, something internal to them—their thoughts, or perhaps
just mindless activity. I don't know yet what it is. But I've been hearing it
since we first approached this part of space."
There was a sound from Arlysa. I thought she had given a snort of
disbelief; but when I turned, I was surprised to see her bent forward,
fingertips pressed to both temples, her eyes squeezed together in an
expression that might have been either distress or deep concentration.
Rueldo continued talking. "Did you see any indication of this on your
instruments, before we came out of alterspace?" he asked Arlysa.
She lowered her hands with a sigh. She did not answer, and her gaze
remained on her instruments.
"I don't hear a thing," I said, closing my eyes and listening for . . . what?
"I'm sorry," Rueldo said. He was silent for a moment, and then added, "I
suppose it's a matter of telepathic compatibility. Jorges sensed a living
presence when he was pulled out of alterspace—and he shared that memory
with me. I could only hope that, since he and I shared a compatibility, I too
would be able to feel—" and he paused and stared out into space before
finishing—"them."
He looked at me, and then at our pilot. "You, too, Arlysa," he said. "I
thought you would feel them." Arlysa scowled and began readjusting
settings on her controls. Rueldo smiled.
What did that mean? I wondered. Was there something between the two
of them, after all—something I could not hope to have been a part of? So
far as I knew, I had no telepathic abilities whatever.
Rueldo was suddenly frowning again. "We must establish contact," he
said urgently. "I'm losing touch with it. It's been weakening since we

coasted out of its center."
Arlysa finally spoke. "We have our power and control back," she said,
turning. "If we leave straightaway, I think we can get home safely."
"You were hired to come investigate this!" Rueldo said, his voice rising.
"But not to commit suicide—or to lose my ship and passengers. You can
observe from a distance if you like. When you have your data, you can take
it back and be a hero." Her eyes were hard. "If you want to come back with
a pilot who likes to take foolish risks, that's okay with me. Take this
information to people who know how to deal with it."
Rueldo snorted. "There's no one in fifty light-years who knows how to
deal with something like this—or who would have the guts to take a risk."
Arlysa shrugged. Rueldo turned to me. "How about you, Elsie? We've come
a long way, spent a lot of your money. Are you willing to go on?"
I blinked. Spent a lot of money? I guessed we had—over fifty billion
stip. If we made an important discovery, I could say that it was money well
spent. But if we ran for cover the moment things became just a little risky—
well, then it was nothing but a junket, and a damned foolish one at that.
As though reading my mind, Arlysa said, "Elsevier, don't let him bully
you."
I looked at her in confusion. Was she being reasonable, and appropriately
cautious—or was there some darker fear, or some special intuition that
made her want to leave? I was probably the least courageous person on the
bridge of this ship; but that thing out there, that thing born of the emptiness
of space, had me intrigued now. Did it live? Were there others of its kind,
and did it reach out across space to touch them, too? I caught Arlysa's gaze
and my heart stopped. I didn't want to oppose her—I was so in love with
her it hurt to think about it. And yet . . . having come so far to find this
mystery, could I turn away now, blind my eyes to it, flee home empty-
handed through the darkness and silence of space?
They were waiting for my vote.
"I think—we should go back in," I stammered.
Arlysa's gaze sharpened, darkening to a glare.
"Cautiously," I added, shrinking from her fury.
The discussion hardly ended there, but eventually Arlysa set course back
to the thing's center. Over Rueldo's objections, and to my relief, she planned
to coast through at a velocity that would assure our reemergence before we

all froze. She would never have agreed at all, if it were not for the fact that
our lifepacks (and our bodies' metabolisms) had been less affected by the
thing than the ship's main power systems had been—probably because they
were much smaller and energetically weaker. Still, neither Rueldo nor I was
favored with much affection afterward.
As it turned out, Arlysa was right about the danger. As we coasted back
through the disturbance, our power cut off again. Worse than that, our
velocity dropped to zero—evaporated like rain on a hot pavement—and we
drifted to a halt in the very heart of the phenomenon. Whatever this thing
was, it had caught us like a fly in a web.
Outside, Hell burst forth out of the fires of creation.
* * *
Commander Toarn interrupted to ask about the theories of the pedriquat
astronomer, whom Rueldo had quoted. "Pomprey was correct, then? He
knew that space was not barren?" Toarn asked in a whisper. His ears
fluttered, and he bent forward like the wolf in the Riding Hood story, the
better to hear me by. Like every pedriquat I had ever met, he squinted as
though he were going blind, and his breath smelled faintly like gin.
I answered that I had already told them everything I knew. Rueldo was
the expert, not I.
Commander Toarn was unsatisfied. "You must understand," he
whispered, "that your vindication of a pedriquat scientist's work could
qualify you as an alien cultural hero. You could be granted immunity under
pedriquat law."
"Immunity?" I croaked. "Immunity from what?"
Lieutenant Amygdol cleared his throat. "The commander refers to the
possibility of prosecution," he explained. "Under the coalitional laws of this
planet, you may be responsible for the deaths of your companions, if—
through your support or negligence—they have come to harm."
I stared at him in horror, recalling that I was on another world now. This
was one of the Eastern Sector worlds, where the laws were distinctly
different from any sort of jurisprudence I was familiar with. Was it really
possible that I could be prosecuted for being an unwitting survivor? I knew
the answer to that, and shrank back in my seat.

Amygdol hoisted an eyebrow. "You could substantially better your
position by showing how you upheld Pomprey's work. If there's any truth to
your story, it might make heroes of both of you."
I was grateful, at least, for the reminder. Pedriquats are noted for their
strong familial sense, and their remarkable pride in all pedriquat
achievements. Solemnly I pledged to do my best.
"Please continue," whispered Commander Toarn.
* * *
My life to this point had hardly been notable for acts of physical
courage. A linguist by training, I was accustomed to meeting my challenges
on a symbolic level. Hero or not, I hope I might be forgiven for the fact that
when a monstrous purple flower began to envelop the ship, I stood on the
bridge shaking with fear. "Get us out of here!" I screamed.
Arlysa checked the switch on her lifepack. "Our power's off, and our
momentum's zero," she said stonily. "There's nothing I can do—so I suggest
that you enjoy the view. As soon as the lifepacks stop working, we're going
to freeze to death." She glanced at me expressionlessly and then turned,
arms folded across her chest, to stare at the thing that confronted us.
I knew her well enough to know that she was frightened, and more than
that, angry. Was it me she was angry with, or something else?
Before I could think more about her anger, or my fear, I was distracted
by a sound from Rueldo—something in a gravelly voice that sounded like
no human tongue I had ever heard. He was crouched forward, holding his
head in his hands, as though struggling for possession of his senses. "What's
going on!" I shouted. I felt a chill closing in around us, literally.
Arlysa strode forward and seized him by the shoulders. "Stop it, Ruey—
stop it!" she barked, shaking him. Rueldo's voice turned into a moan.
I was immobilized by the sight of their silhouette, stark against the
bloody light of the thing that was engulfing us. What was it—gas?—dust?
—a disturbance in space itself? Something was crowding at my mind,
making it hard for me to think. I grabbed Arlysa's wrist. "Do you hear it,
too?" I demanded, squeezing her. "Do you hear it the way he does?"
"I hear it!" she hissed, and that was when I realized that her face was
drawn with pain. I released her, and at once she clutched her temples. She
struggled to get her words out. "I hear it—and it's—"

There was a burst of orange light outside, and she flinched away.
The purple flower exploded into rivulets of color that fell toward the ship
like rain. What frightened me far more, however, was the fear that I saw in
Arlysa's eyes. She was a tough woman, far tougher than I. What in God's
name did she hear that so terrified her?
"It's in complete control," she whispered, as though to answer my
question. The backlighting cast shifting shadows across her eyes. She was
not looking at me; her focus was turned inward, as though toward some
knowledge, some understanding reaching her from within. "They control
the continuum," she said, as if to herself. "They alter space itself as they
breathe and grow."
Alter space? That was what spaceship drives and black holes did, but not
living creatures. Not on that kind of scale. Alterspace drives controlled
tremendous power, after all, and black holes were created by matter being
compressed to incredible densities. This thing was more like a gaseous
entity, a creature made of thin and wispy starstuff.
Arlysa continued dreamily. "I can see their birthplace now. The most
incredible densities, stresses—matter converging, space twisting into hyper
and sub space." She focused her eyes outward again, gazing at the creature
that was putting this knowledge into her head.
"A quasar?" I asked weakly.
I had not expected her to hear me—but she shrugged. "Perhaps. How can
they know themselves? They're born in the instant that they're shot across
the universe. Most die immediately. Some live—for an incredible length of
time. They live by distorting space, trapping matter—the way they trapped
us, like insects." Her voice was hollow as she faced Rueldo, now rising
from his crouch. "You knew it all along, didn't you?"
Rueldo's voice was strained. "I guessed—I wondered." He breathed
heavily, regaining his strength from whatever struggle he had undergone.
"They live in many universes at once, you know. Can you conceive of that
—crossing from one universe to another as we might pass between rooms?"
He gazed at me pleadingly. For support?
I asked angrily, "Did you know we would be trapped?"
"They're not evil," he said, ignoring the question. "They simply don't
know who we are—how fragile we are. If I could convey to them—" He
raised his hands imploringly.

I turned from him, sick with the certainty of my coming death. I did not
doubt that this thing was preparing to crush us, to devour us. What manner
of creature was it, and was it worth my death to find out? Was it wondering
who we were? I was a linguist—I could communicate with Norphem
waterbugs. Couldn't I do anything here, with this creature?
A tremendous vibration shook the bridge, and around us the creature
began to change. The luminous clouds grew clearer, purer in color; the stars
behind shone through more brightly. Directly before us, in the heart of the
cloud, a blood-red zone formed—and within it a deep-grained or crystalline
pattern. There was a texture to it that reminded me of something, but I was
cold and my brain was numb and I could not think what it was. An image
flickered through my mind of the mitochondria, the organelles that lived in
all the cells of Earth-based life, churning out or metabolizing oxygen.
Indispensable links in the life-energy network of their world, the organelles.
Was that what this thing was—an organelle of space, its metabolism bound
up in the life-and-death forces of the cosmos? I had a fleeting image of a
universe filled with erupting springs and flowing tides of life energy, and I
suddenly wondered why I was so concerned for my own tiny life.
I became aware that I was being watched, and not by my shipmates.
Something touched the edge of my mind, probed a moment, and passed on;
and then the association became clear. That strange pattern before me was a
sensory organ, and it was focused directly upon our ship, and upon us. I
shivered as a sparkle of lightning crossed the eye.
"It seeks, but cannot understand," Rueldo whispered, with an effort. "I
fear—it's growing impatient."
"To destroy us!" Arlysa hissed.
"How can you know—any of this?" I asked desperately; but I knew that
their certainty came from within, from something they felt, something they
received. But their certainties were so different—I had to find my own
answers. Perhaps there was a visual language that could reach this creature.
Time was growing short; it tossed us in its hand like a nut, trying to decide
whether or not to crack us open for a better look.
What would reach a creature that could touch our minds—enter the
thoughts of two of us—and still not understand who we were? Why couldn't
it reach me the same way? Perhaps there was something else I could do,
that Arlysa and Rueldo could not, or had not thought to do. If it could not

understand the language of our intellects, perhaps there were other
languages it could understand. Such as love. Or hate. An absurd idea
ricocheted through my mind; I quashed it and searched for a practical plan.
Perhaps some use of light. Signals from a photon gun? Hardly . . . it
controlled our power. Even my lifepack was now straining and surging,
giving me hot and cold flashes.
The ship quaked, and the control lights flickered on, then went off again.
Had it lost control for a moment? "Rueldo!" I shouted. "Can this thing be
distracted?"
"What?" He blinked at me.
"Could we distract it—draw its attention toward us and away from the
ship—and then slip out of its grip—"
Arlysa shook her head violently. "What could we do that wouldn't seem
puny to it?" Her voice was bitter and despairing. What grip did this thing
have on her?
"Is it aware of our thoughts—our feelings?" I asked, groping.
"Aware, but doesn't understand yet," said Rueldo.
"Well—can we trick it? Confuse it somehow?"
Rueldo snorted. "An opportunity like this—that anyone with a soul
would kill for—and you can't wait to escape!"
"Yes!" I shouted. "Do you want to die for that thing out there—?"
"It's the spirit that matters!" Rueldo cried. "Reach out to it with your
heart—with your soul!"
The deck shuddered again. Frost crystals glittered on metal surfaces.
Outside a great glowing eye peered in at us.
The spirit? I wondered. The heart? I stared out at the luminous thing that
held us prisoner, and the idea I'd dismissed as absurd came back in a rush. It
was outlandish, I knew that . . . and perhaps it was ridiculous . . . but
perhaps Arlysa would see what I meant, would understand . . . would
agree . . . .
Before I could utter a word, Arlysa retorted to Rueldo, "What are we
supposed to do—make love to it?" She gestured contemptuously.
There was a trace of spirit, yet, beneath her despair. I took a breath and
struggled to keep my voice even. "Maybe not. Maybe we're to make love to
each other."
She wheeled. "You're as mad as he is!"

"Am I?" I croaked. Perhaps I was. We were trapped by a creature so
alien I scarcely knew what it was—only that its very existence endangered
our lives—and here I was suggesting that we show it the extent of the
human heart, that we create right here in its presence the act that
symbolized the greatest intensity of the human spirit. I proposed no mere
act of coupling, but the true joining and bounding of love. Could Arlysa
find those feelings in herself? Would she want to? Would I?
"Arlysa." I took a halting step toward her. "We might turn it from
destroying us."
She looked at me oddly, her face illuminated by the glow of the quasar
creature. Perhaps the creature itself sensed something of the invisible sparks
shooting between us, because a stronger radiance suddenly fell across
Arlysa's face. I looked out to see a luminous iris now surrounding the
eyelike structure.
"Do it!" Rueldo roared. He was at the far corner of the bridge,
silhouetted against the eerie glow. "Show it the ultimate! Show it love! Let
it know the human soul!" His eyes flashed, not at me but at Arlysa.
Did he know what he was saying? Was I as mad as he was? I reached out
a hand to touch Arlysa. Her eyes were closed, thumbnail pressed to her lip,
concentrating on something inside herself. "What do you feel?" I
whispered.
It was a long moment before she answered. Finally she opened her eyes
a crack, and glanced first at Rueldo and then at me. Her eyes betrayed her
internal struggle. "Maybe—" she said hoarsely. "It's crazy. But maybe—it
would work." A smile cracked her lips, and for an instant I saw the
maverick young metaxawoman surface in the sharp eyes, the angular jaw.
She laughed. "Besides," she whispered, "if it doesn't work—what better
way to go?"
My breath went out, and my legs weakened under me. I was dizzy with
several kinds of fear, all churning together. "I—I mean—" I gulped, my
tongue in knots. I was painfully aware of Rueldo standing behind me, and I
wondered what he would feel. Jealousy? Indifference? Did it really matter?
I gazed at Arlysa, and saw anger flash back into her eyes. Then the anger
transformed itself to amusement, and her jaw was set once more with
confidence. This was the metaxawoman I thought I knew, the little girl from
Toynbrun grown strong. Her eyes turned to pools surrounded by shadows of

pain. She stepped closer to me, and before I knew how to react, she was
touching my hair, stroking and entwining her fingers in it. She pulled me to
her, and then as our lips came together, there was an electrical sparkle
where our lifepack fields intersected and joined. She brushed her lips to
mine, and then her breath was warm against my neck as she sighed.
Clumsily I pressed her to me and buried my face in her hair. I could feel
her trembling and stiffening as one feeling and then another took hold.
Through the mistiness of my eyes and the haze of her hair and the sparkle
of our interacting fields, I could just see the crimson and gold radiance of
the creature that was responsible for our dilemma. Could it sense our fear?
Was that what kept it interested? Was there any hope that it would sense our
passion, our craving for life—that it would spare us? I felt the force of its
presence, watching; but whether it was a benign or evil presence I couldn't
tell. I knew only that Arlysa's and my actions, and our emotions, might spell
the difference for us between life and death.
Could we show this creature the heights reached by the human spirit?
I clutched Arlysa to me in hope and terror.
* * *
Heedless of my interrogators, I held the touchglass to my forehead for
nearly a full minute, conscious only of the blinding, soothing music of the
light-harps in my brains, sluicing away the memory and the pain. Only
when the music so filled me that it taxed the capacity of my head did I
lower the crystal and raise my eyes again. Commander Toarn was watching
me with a stony stare, his ears fluttering as though being tickled by a
breeze. Lieutenant Amygdol was squinting, perhaps wondering if he was
being taken in by a cheap bluff.
I took a breath to continue, but was interrupted by Toarn's whisper. "This
act you speak of . . . it is regarded by your race as . . . as . . ." He fluttered
his long fingers, searching for the right word. "Mystical—is it not?"
I hesitated, unsure how to answer. That was, of course, precisely the
point of Arlysa's and my . . . performance. And yet—even the most casual
student of human history knew that through the ages men had often
subordinated sexual activity to the status of mere animal pleasure. Come to
think of it, though, even as a recreation devoid of bonding, the activity was

imbued with an aura of mysticism far outstripping the actual pleasure
involved.
As I struggled with this question, Lieutenant Amygdol unexpectedly
came to my rescue. He chuckled, saying, "I think, Commander, that you've
stymied him with a question that human artists have wrestled with for
centuries. Humans have never been able to decide whether sex is nothing
more than instinct, or is something that belongs in the realms of the mystics
and angels." He winked at me. "Right, Mr. Kandrell?"
My face reddened. I refrained from pointing out that what I was talking
about was not sex per se, but a gestalt of sex and love, which was
something else entirely. Amygdol seemed to be trying to help me—and
maybe he meant the same thing, anyway. Another historical fact is that it's a
rare period in which ordinary humans can talk freely and articulately about
this subject.
"I see," whispered the pedriquat doubtfully.
The lieutenant nodded and sat back. "Now, maybe we can hear how it all
came out," he said, winking again.
I sighed, deciding that he had apparently not caught the distinction, after
all. Nevertheless, the story needed to be told.
* * *
Sensing my fear, Arlysa found the strength to melt slowly, ever so slowly
in my rigid embrace. The warmth of her breath against my skin, the tiny
movements of her body, the prolonged, penetrating kiss and the stare of
those eyes filled with pain, a sharing pain—all warmed me till I was free of
the ice of fear, allowed me to loosen my clutch on her.
With a gentle laugh, she drew herself back a few inches and gazed into
my eyes. I laughed in a twitchy, self-conscious way, and then allowed
myself to smile as I recognized the tenderness that had entered her eyes. We
stood that way for a few seconds or perhaps an hour, scarcely mindful of the
presence of another life-force around us, simply holding one another and
basking in our mutual presence. Whatever terror Arlysa had felt now
seemed forgotten or hid away; and I felt the last of my own fears give way
in a ripple that spread to my fingertips and toes, and back up my spine.
There, in the light of the quasar creature, my desire for Arlysa
reawakened; and out of the desire something more powerful was aroused,

something that had lain sleeping—a power that wrapped itself around and
through the bare desire like a spell entwined through the sinews of a living
sword in the old legends, dwarfing and yet transmuting it into a force a
thousand times more potent. Was that power love? If not, it was something
for which no word has yet been created.
Arlysa's hands were working to loosen my jumpsuit. I responded to her
evident arousal as I reached to unfasten hers. Whatever the magic was, I
was not alone in being transformed by it.
Outside the spacecraft, a fabulous sentient being was shimmering and
glowing in changing colors as it streamed out of the tortured world of
alterspace. A corner of that being's mind was bound up in Arlysa's, and
perhaps in mine, as well. Was its power joining with ours? Were emotions
that might have lain forever unawakened in my heart, and in Arlysa's, being
charged and brought forth in a three-way gestalt, united in both physical
and psychic bonding there before the viewport?
Our garments cast aside, we were soon clothed only in the sparkle of our
interacting lifepack fields. My dragon awakened from his slumber, and
Arlysa responded in kind, neither of us much troubled by the shadowy
presence of Rueldo—or by the brooding living light staring in from space,
perhaps comprehending and perhaps not, but surely not indifferent. We
joined and closed with one another, and in Arlysa's eyes and in the
movements of her body I felt an acceptance and devotion to me and to our
joined spirits, and my heart soared beyond reason or hope.
Outside the spaceship, a creature of fantastic tenuousness and size was
listening and feeling, perhaps astounded and perhaps stupefied—but
understanding, I think, a little.
* * *
Lights shadowed around us like a waterfall, flashing bright and dark,
cascading upon us in rippling colors as though the spaceship were without
walls. We were locked in a bewitching, dizzying embrace—and yet my
mind was totally clear in the knowledge that I loved Arlysa as I had never
thought to love a woman. I searched the depths of those emerald-brown
eyes, watched them close with pleasure and pain, and then open again to
flicker over my face, reaching, touching, searching within for my soul.
There was nothing I would have kept hidden from her; I would have killed

for her or walked into death for her, or walked away, if that was what she
needed.
Even in those moments, a fragment of my mind recognized the
strangeness in what was occurring—the light streaming into the ship,
streaming out of the very air surrounding us—and the shadowy silhouette of
Rueldo, dancing and gesturing before the creature. Then the change started:
first, Rueldo's presence touching the edges of our gestalt, a spiritual rather
than physical presence. I felt Arlysa responding with surprise and pleasure,
and then Rueldo's thoughts not just brushing, but entering the magical zone;
and for a moment I was wrenched with jealousy, and then I thought, he
could be a part of it, too, it would be a greater union than ever, it was
natural, and I'd always wondered if he and Arlysa . . .
. . . and that was when it began coming apart.
I realized that she was slipping from me, her attention drawing away;
something was coming between us. No! I cried, straining to hold her tightly
with my mind as with my body. Arlysa!
I could hear her calling to me, as though across a gulf of space. The
threads of our embrace were unraveling faster than I could follow in my
dizziness, and retangling again in another form, a form excluding me.
Arlysa and Rueldo were coming together, and I was on the outside,
straining to remain a part of her; but that something else was entwining
itself around them, the chosen two, the ones who could hear it.
Though I still clutched her in my arms, Arlysa was becoming
insubstantial, a shimmering sylph—and I was dimly aware of Rueldo, now
motionless before the viewport—and of a bizarre, stroboscopic
disjointedness in the flow of time . . .
. . . and afterwards there was a fragmented, dreamlike memory of a
bubbling fountain of light smashing my world and sending me reeling into
unconsciousness.
Later I awakened, shaking with cold horror and a great emptiness, and a
feeling that a part of me had been ripped out of my skull. I was alone on the
bridge, clothed only in my lifepack field. The automatic controls flickered
with restored life, and my stomach told me that I had just recently come out
of alterspace. Exhausted, I sat a while just clutching my sweaty jumpsuit,
and Arlysa's. I pressed her suit to my face, trying to stop the damned tears;
but they would not stop, and the smell of Arlysa in the cloth only made the

emptiness deeper and more hurtful, and I could do nothing except shake and
sob with the pain. Eventually I was too exhausted to cry any longer, and I
got to my feet and went to the computer asking for answers. What I found,
though startling, could scarcely shock me further. Pixikin was entering the
interplanetary region of Arxus—the pedriquat system—a good dozen light-
years from our previous position.
And my shipmates?
I wandered the corridors and compartments of the ship, calling quietly,
but I knew what I would find. And of course I was right.
* * *
Commander Toarn, I swear, was weeping. His ears were laid back flat,
his nostrils flared—and yet his eyebrows were quivering, and almost
inaudibly, he was whispering, "A hero of the people! A true hero!"
Lieutenant Amygdol, however, was staring at me with a stolid
expression. "You still haven't told us," he said tonelessly, "what became of
your companions. For the record."
Ah, he knew, then—he just wanted to be told. "I assume they're still out
there," I answered, thinking how badly I wanted to just go hole up in a bar
somewhere and submerge that memory in a deep pool of intoxication.
"Out there—?"
I gestured vaguely. "With the creature—wherever." I thought for a
moment, thankful that my feelings were bubbling beneath the surface but
not pouring out, and I finished in a rush of words. "We succeeded in getting
its attention, all right. We showed it human emotion—and in some way I'll
never understand, it joined in, made the bond total—and then tore it away
from me." I blinked. "Don't you see? It worked too well. The creature fell in
love with her, too—or fell in love with love. And so it kept her for itself,
her and Rueldo, the two it knew how to touch. It controls space and
alterspace, and so it kept them and threw me out."
"But it protected you—sent you to a place of safety."
I shrugged. Safety? I had lost a love that could not come twice in a
lifetime.
The lieutenant persisted. "You said she hated the thing."
"So maybe she loves it now. Or maybe they're in some kind of Hell
together," I grunted. I shifted my gaze to the pedriquat, who was watching

me in apparent wonder. "May I go now?" I said softly.
"You are a hero of the people," he whispered. "You have proven our
ancestor Pomprey famous and right. There must be honors, ceremonies."
I shook my head. "Not now. Later, perhaps—"
"Where will you go?" he asked. "You have no home here."
"Nor anywhere," I answered. "But humans live on your world. You have
bars?"
His gaze was sobering. "You seek intoxicants?"
I shrugged. "More than that. Solitude." I glanced at the human
lieutenant, and back at the pedriquat. "Can you understand?"
Commander Toarn stared at me for a long time before sighing. "You may
go where you please. I understand."
I sighed and rose to leave. The lieutenant escorted me as I walked,
shakily, to the front door; and then he saw me out into the misty-skied
world of the pedriquats, and I walked alone down the road toward the city,
along the edge of the spaceport—a lonely cultural hero, wanting to forget.
Wanting only to forget.
*****
[Return to Table of Contents]
OceanofPDF.com

Alien Persuasion
Behind the story:
"Alien Persuasion" is where the Star Rigger Universe began—in my
head, that is, not chronologically. It's the story of a rigger, a star pilot,
someone who steers his ship by connecting to a sensory net and reaching
out through something resembling virtual reality into the very stuff of
space. (This hyperdimensional realm is called "flux-space" in this story and
"the Flux" in the novels that followed.) The idea is that there exists a layer
of multidimensional space that flows in streams like the luminiferous ether
of Nineteenth Century physics, bypassing the tedious light-years between
the stars. The rigger can plunge his or her hands into the medium to steer
the ship, and can negotiate the streams like a sailing ship, by superimposing
mental images onto the real topography of the space. The streams could
take the form of ocean currents, or jet streams over mountains, or anything
the rigger could imagine. What's out there is real, but the rigger defines the
form it seems to take . . . usually. Rigging a ship is a job that melds piloting
skills with intuition and imagination, and it requires a particular sort of
sensitive personality to do well.
I don't really remember where the idea came from, though I believe I
was influenced by the early work of Samuel R. Delany, and also one or two
stories by the remarkable Cordwainer Smith. My friend Jane Yolen once
told me that star rigging seemed to her to be a metaphor for the artistic and
creative process. I hadn't thought of that at all—until she said it. And then it
seemed absolutely true, if unconscious on my part.
"Alien Persuasion" was my second professional sale, to Jim Baen at
Galaxy magazine—a magazine that over the course of its history had
published probably thousands of stories by my favorite authors. I don't
remember how much I was paid, but I know it was more than I got for my
first sale (which was a promise of $50 upon publication, actually made
good on years later). I was living more or less in poverty at the time, and
any payment was better than no payment. As it happened, this sale also
featured payment upon publication. And I soon learned, in my first visit to a
science fiction convention as a professional writer, that Galaxy's parent

company was known not to be paying its bills on time. I met Jim Baen in
person at the same convention, and when I asked him about the payment
issue, he laughed and said, "Just threaten to sue. That's the best way to get
your money." That certainly brought me down from my high.
I'm happy to say that no lawsuit was required, and I did get my check,
not too many months after publication. The delay only slightly detracted
from my pleasure at holding the glossy, digest-sized magazine in my hands,
and opening it to my first story to be published in a well-known science
fiction magazine. "Alien Persuasion" inspired my first novel, Seas of
Ernathe, which I set centuries later in the same universe. It further spawned
my second novel, Star Rigger's Way, and in revised form became the
opening section of that book. This collection marks the first reprinting of
the short story since its publication in Galaxy.
The story was originally illustrated by Freff, an artist who was doing a
lot of work for the magazines at the time. They were black-and-white illos
done on scratchboard, and I liked them so much that—impecunious as I was
—I bought one of the original scratchboard pieces from the artist and had it
framed. It hangs on my office wall to this day: an image of Cephean and the
riffmar, whom you are about to meet. Through the generosity of the artist,
that illustration appears as the frontispiece to this book.
_______________
Part One—Sedora
Gev Carlyle had little success in concealing his exasperation. "Cephean,"
he said, "you do know how to fly a ship—I mean, you flew your own,
right?"
"Hyiss-yiss!" insisted the cynthian. "Hoff khorss." Cephean was large as
a tiger and black as coal dust. His eyes were molten copper, flecked with
gold, and he was plump and furry, like an enormous persian cat.
Carlyle was trying to explain to him about starship flying, rigger-style,
but nothing ever seemed to sink in. It was not, Carlyle thought, something
which ought to need explaining. Not at this juncture, anyway. "Follow my
lead, is all I want you to do," he said. "You can sense my guidance of the
ship. Just back me up." He looked at the cynthian questioningly (and felt a
rush of impatience, a sense of preoccupation—Cephean's).

The cynthian looped his tail behind his triangular ears, and his eyes
blinked and flickered in the subdued light of the bridge. "Hi khan ff-
hollow," he hissed.
Carlyle cleared his throat dubiously. Could he? The explanations all
seemed to go over his head, though of course the cynthian was not really
listening to the words themselves. "Okay," he said. "Let's try it again. This
time work with me, not against me." Or we're never going to get there, he
added silently. Sedora was a long way from any starport.
Cephean dutifully padded over to the makeshift stern-rigger station,
followed by his two riffmar, the walking ferns that accompanied him
everywhere. Cephean sat and Carlyle tilted the back of the partially
dismantled seat until it rested against the cynthian's spine. Cephean tensed
for a moment, then relaxed.
Carlyle hastened to join him, reclining in the pilot-rigger seat until the
neural-foam pad touched his own backbone. He felt an instant of numbness,
as his eyesight darkened, and then his senses sprang like electric fire, out of
his body and into the ship's net. Flux-space curled about him in a majestic
panorama of colorfully layered smoke. Stars, nebulae and the currents of
the interstellar seas melded in whorled and flowing atmospheres. Here and
there, stars were visible as nuclei of distant vortices; most were mere flecks
of carbon dust adrift in luminous space. Below Sedora's glittery net, a
channeled intersection of two planes marked the Reld Current, an even-
flowing, deeply submerged channel in the multi-dimensional ocean of flux-
space. The Reld was Carlyle's immediate objective.
The Reld itself would be easily navigable, but at its end it emptied into a
different sort of current—the Hurricane Flume, a violent meeting and
surging and tangling of currents, a wholly perilous place that Sedora would
reach in a half-dozen days. From within the Flume streamed the upwelling
currents to Cunnilus Banks, and in those Banks lay Carlyle's destination—
and the nearest havens. If they could reach Cunnilus Banks, they would be
home free.
But to get there they had to navigate the Flume—and that was why
Carlyle was scared. Sedora was a four-rigger starfreighter—which until the
accident had been manned by five crew(wo)men. Now Carlyle was alone—
except for Cephean.

Singlehandedly, Carlyle could barely manage the ship and the Flume
was going to hit him like a cyclone. But with his shipwrecked cynthian
aboard, he liked to think that there would be two of them to do the flying.
There had better be—or they were both doomed.
You there? he asked.
Hyiss.
He released the stabilizers, reached his steely, spidery, sensory arms into
the streamers of flux-space, and coaxed the ship downward. Behind him, he
hoped, Cephean was comprehending and helping.
* * *
Consider starship-rigging for a moment. A demanding profession,
requiring from a human rather particular and peculiar aptitudes. For the
rigger, starflight was akin to free-wheeling fantasy, and flux-space therefore
to the mistily-mapped realm of the waking dream. Riggers were dreamers,
but of a special sort—not idle ones, but dreamers who could reach through
a vision, to gain a fingerhold in another, and sometimes more useful, reality.
The net was his harness, allowing the ship to drift with him, like a
backpack, while he used the ebbs and flows of flux-space itself for
transport. It was a realm unconcerned with the laws or distances of normal-
space, and it was a fine way to travel.
The dreaming, though—that was the tricky part.
The net itself was a glittery spangle of ghost neurons flung into flux-
space like the exploded tentacles of a Man-o-war. Interfaced through
organic neural foam and amplified by the flux-pile, it was the rigger's skin
against space, his wings and fins in the turbulent air/sea among the stars.
The rigger guided the ship by intuition, by his own individual imaging
powers.
Intuition: that was the second tricky part, especially among crew. No two
riggers viewed flux-space identically; teamwork demanded a gestalt, a deep
intermixing of visions, of perceptions, of selves. Functioning smoothly
together, several riggers could sail a ship easily among the stars; at odds
within the net, at best they would bob helplessly, at worst they would tear a
ship to pieces.
The teamwork had always been the toughest part for Carlyle. Such
openness, such nakedness. And now—with an alien stranger? The

dreampool might well be the only way. He shuddered at the thought.
* * *
As the ship entered the Reld, Carlyle cursed the cynthian's clumsy
efforts. His anger rang in echoes round the net and vanished in the noise of
space. Cephean homm-humm'd to himself somewhere sternward, keeping
his thoughts private and consistently responding late to Carlyle's initiatives.
The ship bucked and plunged like an angry whale.
Gently, Cephean! Do you see the river?
Whass? Whass?
A "river," yes, that was an adequate image. The lanes of the Reld
congealed, darkened into molasses, flattened beneath a glittery sky and
flowed swirling between two misty riverbanks; Sedora settled her hull into
the waters and moved quickly downstream through the night. The net
shimmered beneath the hull, beneath the dark surface of the river. The
Flume was invisible, not even a distant mutter; but beyond it in the distance
a dim streamer rose to meet Cunnilus Banks, a faint cloud of particles in the
night.
The ship lurched again, as Cephean clumsily bumped the stern askew.
Cephean, follow!
Ffhollow-hing, Caharleel!
No rapport, he thought, straining to guide the ship. What did Janofer
used to say? That a crew needn't understand one another, or even be
friends . . . that the crux was congruence, simple congruence of vision. And
Skan—that without unity none of the rest was worth a mote in the Kryst
Nebula. That was why they had sent him to crew Sedora, had sent him
kindly, firmly, hoping he might learn here what he couldn't from them.
This Cephean, though, was more like Legroeder, so alone with his
thoughts—even in the net, where privacy tended to dissolve. Except
Legroeder always worked in harmony, despite his aloneness, and could be
either leader or follower; Cephean, it seemed, could be neither.
Carlyle kept up the struggle for a time—jockeying, trimming the ship,
compensating for Cephean's mistakes. How did he ever fly his own ship?
Carlyle muttered. Finally, he called, Cephean, pull out of the net, which the
cynthian did, humming and grumbling, and Carlyle infused the entire net
with his strength and bucked the ship into line where it belonged. Then he

put it on stabilizers and withdrew himself . . . and gazed with tired eyes
about the bridge, before retiring to the commons, and then to his cabin.
To regain the feel of a human body, to eat, to sleep a while, to find and
lecture the cynthian—and to try again, once more.
* * *
Remembering:
After the accident—trying to summon the faces of his dead crewmates.
He had rigged with them for only seven days and now could not recall their
names. He had been lucky, or he would have died with them. Lucky?
Other names came to him, though: Janofer, Legroeder, and Skan—the
names clicked through his head like the chatter of a rad counter,
rhythmically, Janofer Legroeder and Skan.
The faces came later. Legroeder: dark little man, pilot-rigger, lover of
dream-gestalt plays, but often shut away in his cabin, a place madly
adorned with mystical-sequenced pearlgazers. Janofer: gentle, beautiful
keel-lifter, fond of stories and music even in the web, briefly a lover and
always a friend. Skan: com-rigger and hard-balanced thinker, the one to
believe in when decisions were to be made, but fearsome when his balance
crumbled and he plummeted into one of his deep, black depressions.
Why couldn't they be here now in this battered vessel?
Lady Brillig—glittering domed beauty of a ship, light and comfortable,
and responsive as a kite! Who was the fourth, now, in her rig? Who, Lady
Brillig?
Eventually, though, such thoughts had to be put by. With great
trepidation he took his place alone, for the first time, in Sedora's net. There
was no choice but to fly if he could; the vulnerable and delicate
transmission gear had been fried along with his crewmates. He was almost
astonished when he sank his fingers into the stuff of space and the ship
moved at his bidding.
Sedora was ponderous, and flew as if laden with water. He could only
work her for short, deadening shifts; his stamina deteriorated rapidly even
so. He thought of the Flume ahead, considered and discarded other courses,
thought of the Flume again, and knew he hadn't a chance in a thousand.
Therefore hope, when it appeared, was strange.

The signal had seemed a part of the windrush, part of the starsong of the
net. But like a warbling bird it would not be ignored, and finally he decided
that just perhaps he was hearing a distress beacon; and with tightly
suppressed excitement he wheeled Sedora into the clouds to find the source.
The search nearly drained him—ten hours of puffing through crazy blue
skies with golden veils and spun hair arching across the stars like a yellow-
brick road.
At last he found it: a flattened raisin of a spacecraft, drifting abeam of
Sedora in the queer near-distance of flux-space. He grappled with it and
took it spiraling up with him through layered images of space-times, into
spinning, velvet darkness . . . until at last the stars exploded in bright pricks
of light—and he looked out through the clearplex port into normalspace.
The ship was squat, strange; alien.
He suited up and floated across to it. From space, Sedora was cold, a
gun-gray cetacean, linked to him only by a snaking lifeline. His soles
touched the other ship; he wondered who he might find, and whether
perhaps the strangeness was only beginning.
* * *
Following a poor night's sleep, Carlyle entered Cephean's quarters. The
cynthian hardly noticed as he sat idly batting the two giggling riffmar into
floating somersaults. Carlyle cleared his throat. The ferns squealed and
scuttled away behind Cephean, their oversized hands flailing excitedly.
How strange it must be, Carlyle thought, to be so utterly dependent—both
for Cephean and the riffmar. Cephean was the master, but the riffmar had
the hands and the prehensile branches. How helpless would the cynthian be
without them?
"Cephean, let's talk."
The cynthian gazed at him, ears forward. (He sensed mild interest.)
"Hyiss?"
"Cephean," he said, and hesitated. "This is sort of ridiculous, isn't it?
Here we are lucky enough to be able to help each other, and now we can't
seem to make it work. We both know how to fly, and there should be no
reason why we can't do it." He eyed the cynthian and asked almost
pleadingly, "Don't you want to reach port, don't you want to go home?"

"Hyiss—yiss," Cephean replied, his whiskers curling and springing
straight again. "Hi ffly wiss hyou," he hissed, his velvety face split in an
apparent grin.
"Yeh. What went wrong, last time? Why didn't you work with me?"
Cephean's breath hissed over his teeth, as he seemed to consider
Carlyle's statement. Behind him, the riffmar rustled and sssk'd quietly as
they buried their feet in the nutrient bed. Cephean touched a forepaw to his
nose and said, "Hi ss-ry. Hiss d-hifficulss." (An impression of shame
flickered across Carlyle's mind.) "Hyou ffly, Caharleel." (The image was
followed by a strange, dark longing, unidentifiable and then gone
altogether.)
Carlyle grimaced, wishing that he did not have to play guessing games.
Cephean, apparently reading his thoughts, stirred nervously.
"All right. We'll try it again, in a little while. If we don't do better this
time, we'll have to try something else." He did not mention the dreampool,
but it loomed large in his thoughts; the cynthian started, and looked away.
Odomilk. An image of the strange pods drifted eerily through Carlyle's
mind. The cynthian was issuing commands; the riffmar scrambled to lift
two odomilk pods from the cache, and set them deliberately in front of
Cephean. The cynthian cracked one carefully in his jaws, and sucked at the
yellowish liquid that oozed out. He looked at Carlyle with upturned eyes,
making plain his discomfort at Carlyle's presence.
Carlyle left him, and went to the commons. He toyed with a flo-globe,
sipped a beermalt, flashed a sparkle-pattern in ringlets about the room:
stoic . . . erotic . . . pastoral . . . he stared at the wall.
* * *
Their next session in the net began not much differently. Cephean
hummed away with his own thoughts, while Carlyle pleaded, pried, cajoled
—and the ship side-slipped and trembled in the smooth-flowing Reld.
Cephean, open up—turn your thoughts outward, into the net. The cynthian
hummed and muttered, and whistled an unintelligible reply. The ship
swayed in the clouds, whipped.
Follow, dammit!
F-hollow-hing.

Carlyle flew a few more practice turns, and then he flew straight, resting.
Janofer came to him quietly, unbidden, with a question: Can you go it
alone, Gev? You may have to try. Don't ask me that, Janofer. Gentle Janofer,
silver-haired keel-girl, you know I can't go it alone, but you always ask.
Why must you? A wrong fit in the net warps it like a gravity abscess in a
calm stream . . . dangerous. You are sometimes like that, Gev, for all that we
love you—dangerous. Do you think I don't know? All right—I'm a lousy
rigger.
Janofer, face darkening: That's not what I meant, Gev. You're a fine
rigger. But . . .
Skan, interjecting flatly, not unsympathetically: You're a lousy matcher,
Gev, that's all. You'd be fine in a one-rigger . . . except you love company
too much. Too bad you don't have a bit of Legroeder in you.
Skan. Always right, never tactful, damn you. Stay with me a while, Jan,
will you?
Sad, already distant gaze: Can't, Gev—I can't. I'm gone, now. Later,
perhaps, if you really need me. Perhaps then, for a while. And with that she
was gone and so was Skan.
Then, perhaps, eh? Janofer so kind, so courteous—you hurt even when
you are here.
Carlyle brought his attention back to the ship, which was drifting again.
The ship resisted his efforts to bring her true; no assistance from Cephean.
More strength was needed, though; he was taxing himself grievously as he
flexed his spidery ghost-neuron arms in the current. And then a curious
thing happened. Legroeder appeared in his thoughts, wordlessly, and
entered the net at the keel station. Smiling enigmatically at Carlyle, the
former crewmate lifted the ship, helped steady the axis along the blue haze
of the mainflow, and pointed the nose where it belonged at the distant glitter
of Cunnilus Banks. The maneuver was done smoothly, almost effortlessly.
All right, Carlyle thought in surprise. Why not? The power, he knew,
was his own, focused through a wistful memory. But if he flew better
through a memory, what harm?
Sedora sailed placidly for a time, and Carlyle almost forgot about
Cephean, silent at the stern. Then a turbulent stretch loomed ahead, an
orange tributary streaming in from the left, setting the calm blue haze of the
mainflow aswirl with dangerous eddies. Legroeder? Yes, still there. The

ship shivered into the current, and Carlyle with Legroeder's help stretched
out steely arms and labored like an oarsman to keep it under control. They
needed more strength still; they had to aim deeper.
Janofer and Skan reappeared as quickly as the thought—and all three
backed him in the net as he hooked his nails into the fabric of space and
wheeled the ship slowly to find its new direction. Silently and without
fanfare, Carlyle found himself part of a perfect gestalt, and as one the four
riggers brought Sedora into a down-welling and then leveled her again in a
smoother layer of current.
The fantasy was a white lie. He had never managed gestalt with the
three, hard as he had tried. If he had he would still be on Lady Brillig. But
the image was perfect in his mind—it was the gestalt for which he had
yearned, and Sedora flew with the grace of an eagle. The image multiplied
in scope and Sedora winged silently over sprawling tufted clouds which
glittered whitely about him. Carlyle forgot his loneliness, realizing with a
sudden dizziness how terribly lonely he had been. Janofer's music lilted
calmingly through the net, and Skan's control lay steady and sure over the
gestalt. Even Legroeder, pretending to ignore them all, smiled with
unspoken affection.
Time, in the gestalt, passed unnoticed.
But the image was as tiring as it was exhilarating. Carlyle, bearing the
load of four riggers in one, slowly became aware of the strain he was
enduring—and then it was too late. His strength failed like rapidly souring
wine—his senses dimmed and flattened, and the ship balked in his
disintegrating rein.
Suddenly he could not remember his friend's faces or their voices. The
ship began to tumble; he wanted to sleep, to collapse. How long had he
been flying?
Caharleel, Cephean whispered urgently.
Cephean! My god. Can you help, can you hold the keel steady? The fine
spiderweb of the net was coming apart, was untangling in the clouds.
Hyiss.
Cephean's presence grew quickly in the net, and Carlyle felt first relief,
then panic. Could the cynthian handle the ship? He felt a blur of annoyance
—and distracted bewilderment at . . . what? . . . at the humans who had
appeared and taken things over for a while, and then vanished. And . . .

eagerness? Before Carlyle could think about it in his dullness, the
sensations disappeared. Cephean had hastily reclosed the lid on his feelings,
and hissed faintly now as he wielded the ship over Carlyle's failing control.
He took the ship deeper. Sedora dived steeply, terrifyingly. The cloud-
image vanished for Carlyle, and suddenly he was deep underwater, and
sinking rapidly. No, Cephean! What are you doing? Level off, bring it up!
He opposed the cynthian desperately, and in the conflict the net strained and
sparkled brightly, heatedly, then began to break, tear, shred. The ship
tumbled deeper and broke completely through the Reld, so that the Current
was only a shimmering ocean surface above them as they fell toward the
abyss. The space here was dark as night, perpetually dark, far deeper than
Carlyle had ever dared venture. Cephean was trying to destroy them and
Carlyle seemed powerless to resist.
Like a stricken diver screaming for air, Carlyle reacted in blind panic,
badly, in the only way he knew. He triggered the fusors: they flared
searingly hot, and the ship groaned and rose upward roaring on the throttled
torches, a fuming trail burning in their wake. He had failed to numb the
sensory field astern, so the heat of the jets crawled along his spine with
clear, glazing, flashing agony. Cephean's scream was a silent shriek of pain;
centered in the stern rig, the cynthian was taking the brunt of the sun-fury,
but Carlyle was too stricken to speak or help. Fragments of cynthian
thought flew like shrapnel: Ru-hinned . . . ss-/-how . . . de-h-mise! The rest
was lost—too fleeting—but Carlyle heard a gasp of astonishment as
Cephean jerked out of the net and found relief.
The fusors were dreadfully inefficient—but they worked, and they
sustained an image of directed movement, so that Carlyle gradually found
himself regaining a semblance of control. The surface of the Reld came
toward him as the ship rose, then fogged, and sputtered in the jet-flare.
When at last the fusors shut down, the ship's keel drifted once again in the
mainflow of the Reld, cockeyed but held intact by a tangled remnant of the
control web. Carlyle set the stabilizers and withdrew, barely conscious,
from the net.
He sensed the cynthian nearby, jittery and numb and bewildered—but he
was too exhausted to look. His veins flowed with lead, and before he could
rise from the seat he felt his eyelids close, and he sank helplessly into
unconsciousness.

* * *
Images of the quarm fluttered naggingly, incessantly. A strange
communion, cynthian heads bowed in a circle, whiskers twitching—
thoughts fleeing selves, joining/regrouping/intermixing like buffeting winds
—shared dreams in strange places, in imaginary bodies. The images were
flavored with distaste, with bile-sour anger toward others in the quarm,
with resentment at being an unwilling participant. But was not the quarm a
relief, an escape from identity, a boon to a weary, confined mind? Was it not
natural? Why did Cephean so want to be alone?
* * *
Carlyle awoke confused and dizzy. He focused with difficulty on his
cabin walls as he tried to recover the recent past. Recollections filtered
fuzzily into his brain; he had awakened—years ago, it seemed—exhausted
on the bridge, and had stumbled to his cabin and bunk. He had slept—how
long?—two shipdays. Jesus. Memories, dreams—he had picked up more
from Cephean than he had realized.
The flying—Lord, trying to fly as four-riggers-in-one! It might well have
killed him.
Rousing himself, he went to the commons, ate ravenously. Afterwards he
drew a mug of hermit ale, and sat—knowing that he should go look for
Cephean.
Before he had done so, however, memory-faces rejoined him and held
conference. Skan, shaking his head: "No flow, Gev. You've got to bring that
plump cat right into the rigging—wring him out, make him respond."
"Thanks, Skan. Care to help?"
Skan, smiling now: "I have, Gev."
Janofer, flowing and concerned: "Perhaps you should think of trying
alone, Gev. Or if you must, use the dreampool."
The dreampool—frightening enough with another human; machine-
assisted intimacy. Now, with an alien? "Just like the old days? That's how
you've always spoken to me."
"I've tried, Gev—you know that. But always there was something that
wouldn't connect between us."
"How many times did you try. Twice? Three times?"
"Which nearly broke me. It wouldn't work, Gev—it just wouldn't."

"Hm."
"You are a beautiful friend, though."
"Thanks."
"You're coming up on the Flume, soon, Gev. Don't be thinking about us.
We'll help all we can, but if you depend on us, you'll burn yourself out."
Skan: "The cat—you've got to get the cat working with you or you'll
never make it."
"He acts suicidal."
Legroeder, from somewhere, looked up and nodded, but distractedly, as if
his real thoughts were elsewhere. Janofer, whispering softly, drew close and
brushed him with a kiss, a breath of moist wind touching him from afar, and
then withdrew, her voice a fading note on the air. Carlyle stirred restlessly.
After a time he rose and left the commons, thinking to find Cephean and
—what? Okay, time to act like a commander and start kicking ass. Right.
Cephean was not in his quarters. Carlyle stood in the starboard-main
corridor under the humming brushed-bronze stabilizer arch, and—feeling
slightly silly—considered where to look next. What might Cephean have
been doing while he slept? Unsupervised, the cynthian might have gotten
into almost anything.
The bridge was deserted. Likewise the commons and communications
coop. Worried, Carlyle began a more systematic search—dreampool theater,
engineering, utility storage, exercise room, lifecontrol, airlock, conversion
room. He checked the fluxfield chamber without entering; the suits were all
in place, and the monitors assured him that the pile shield had not been
breached.
That left only the cargo hold. Carlyle was not sure what all Sedora
carried but much of it was bound to be valuable. He went below and
looked.
"Damn you, Cephean!" he breathed. Number three cargo port was ajar,
and a tattered bit of something lay on the deck—a broken riffmar leaf.
Carlyle stepped inside. The hold was gloomy, and webbed with crisscrossed
anchoring strands, from which were suspended Lifecybe organic computor
cores, each in a fried-egg shaped cradle with an umbilical to a central
support unit. Each was worth a fortune.
Cephean was on the far side of the hold, hunched over one of the cradles.
Carlyle started that way—and was stopped in midstride, mesmerized by a

flashing light which danced in a quick series of circles about the room—
external stimulation for the cores. He shook his head, and hurried across the
compartment.
Cephean looked up at him.
"What are you doing here?" he demanded, struggling to sound
diplomatic; he looked down at the riffmar, who rustled quickly around
behind Cephean. (He sensed disconcertment, frustration.)
The cynthian hissed noncommittally, his whiskers curling. "Caharleel—
hyor com-ffusors nohwork."
Carlyle looked at him narrowly. "Of course not. They'll work when
they're installed in computor tanks. Right now they're just being kept alive
for shipment."
"D-heds now," Cephean insisted.
Carlyle froze, eyeing the cynthian. What was that supposed to mean? He
shoved past Cephean and looked into the cradle behind him. The neural
tissue, visible under a clearplex dome, quivered faintly; it was dark and
smoky, and a glance at the cradle monitor confirmed that the core was dead.
He whirled. "Did you do this?" he said.
The cynthian's face twitched, unreadable. "Hi h-make missthake," he
hissed.
"You what!" Carlyle shouted. "What did you try to do?" He glared,
caught the cynthian's eye, held it insistently. "What did you do?" he
repeated.
Cephean sputtered, and pawed his nose. He half-snarled an answer,
incomprehensible. The riffmar lurched toward Carlyle, then retreated.
Carlyle asked again, insisted. Cephean cast his gaze about anxiously and
cried, "Hiss whoodens hansser h-me!" He hunched fearfully, mournfully,
and shook his head.
Carlyle checked other nearby units, and found one more ruined. "Why
are you wrecking my cargo?" he demanded, almost shouting now. Cephean
gave in, and sputtered finally that he had been trying to question the
computor cores. He had thought that they were hiding something,
information of some kind, about the ship.
Carlyle was incredulous. "Why didn't you ask me what you wanted to
know? This is just a mass of nerve tissue—works when it's part of a unit.
It's delicate! You can't pump it as if it were a ship's computer. What did you

want to know, anyway?" He looked around disgustedly. The two cores were
expensive losses—not that it would matter, if they failed to reach port.
More appalling was Cephean's lack of good sense, or of understanding of
the human systems aboard the ship.
"Damn it!" he barked, making a decision. "We're going to get some
things straight. Right now." The cynthian looked startled. (A jolt of
surprise, apprehension, crossed Carlyle's mind.)
"I'm not going to like this any more than you," he said determinedly, "but
I think at last we're going to understand one another." The riffmar squealed;
he glared at them.
"Follow me."
Cephean followed him out of the hold, shaking and hissing.
Part Two—The Dreampool
The dreampool theater was lighted only by a deepsea gloom. The pool,
circular and still, was enclosed by a smooth, padded ledge; the water
radiated a sourceless, ocean-blue light. The depth of the water was visually
indeterminable—the water appeared simply to merge with the inner wall,
and only the glow could be seen in its depths. Good place to dive and never
come up, Carlyle thought, as he adjusted the lighting and the sensory
responders.
"Whass?" Cephean queried suspiciously, circling about the pool and
coming back to eye Carlyle nervously.
"Dreampool," Carlyle said. "Used by rigger-crews to help develop
rapport. I didn't want to use it, because it was designed, really, for human
minds—and frankly it can be pretty damn personal.
"Well, we're going to test it between a cynthian and a human."
Cephean's flickering eyes seemed to turn inward. His whiskers writhed;
and the riffmar shuddered sympathetically. "H-no-o, no-o!" he hissed. He
drew himself into a defensive crouch and glared at Carlyle stubbornly.
"You'd rather float around in space for the rest of eternity?" Carlyle
asked sternly. "Well, maybe you would for some reason, but how'd you like
to drift forever having to look at me until you die? Eh? This ship goes no
further until we've used the dreampool, or given it a good try."
Cephean shivered. "Damn it, no arguments," said Carlyle, wondering
how far he dared assert himself.

His determination must have been plain, because the cynthian
acquiesced, muttering. He explained the procedure, and they both seated
themselves at the pool's edge, ninety degrees apart from one another. "Look
straight into the water, now, and let your mind follow your eyes. Listen to
my thoughts and do exactly as I do."
Gazing into the pool, Carlyle studied the luminous surface, and allowed
his other thoughts and feelings to subside. The water was faintly perturbed
beneath the surface, so that the light emanation wavered subtly; after a
moment it was the variations rather than the light itself he watched—
shimmerings in the cool bath of sapphire-emerald. The flickering of an
open flame but without the warmth—it was alive, and it reached out to him
and entered his eyes with the tranquilizing energy of an alert, probing
mind . . .
* * *
The first thoughts were his own memories. The death of the Sedora's
crew—sudden, terrible, the cauterizing radiation of the flux-space abscess
flaring through the rig like a bursting aurora, the scrambling of
communications, the clanging alarms that brought him running from a
maintenance chore in the fluxfield chamber, only to find the smoking
bodies of his crewmates, dead at their stations. The shock, horror, revulsion.
Later, garbed still in a chamber suit, dragging the four bodies to the
converter chute, struggling not to lose his grip on himself, not at least until
he had done what he had to do. Afterwards he could let himself go to
pieces, shudderingly relive the horror, wondering by what fortune he was
alive. And then, later still, watching the healers slowly, slowly regenerate
the neural foam in the rigger seats, so that he might try to fly.
Before disaster, though, was departure; unhappily boarding Sedora at
Deusonport Field, with mixed and hurt feelings. He wanted to fly in Lady
Brillig, not Sedora, but if they said that being a helper-rigger on a slowship
might improve him, then helper-rigger he would be. Deusonport Field, a bit
cloudy, green hills and forest about the perimeter, should be a cheery sight
on return. Relaxed, amidst the commerce of the Aeregian planets.
Earlier still, now, Lady Brillig out of Jarvis on Chaening's World:
Legroeder and Skan as usual; and Janofer, never quite stationary—her
moods changing like aircurrents, never merely buoyant or petulant or

contemplative or depressed; always a mixture, and her attention rarely
focusing long on any one of her friends, but ever shifting from one to
another to somewhere beyond the ken of any. Why could he not have been
closer to them?
And . . . earlier? . . . later? . . . the flight-shell of another spacecraft: the
battery of riffmar in turmoil, working to confused commands while he
fought to control his fury and discover what was wrong. The riffmar were
maddeningly inept, never mind that they only responded to his control.
Mindless plants! he shrieked silently, but it was not a curse, only a
statement of fact. Why had he come so far to get in trouble, why had he let
Corneph get to him like that? A riffmar, confused by his shaky control,
stumbled close to him; he swatted it squarely with his left paw, flattening it.
Six more alive, by damn, and they'd better start flying. But they wouldn't,
not unless he himself determined what was stalling the craft, and instructed
them. If only he knew more about these things!
(Strange, to be flying without knowing . . .)
Bring my syrup, he ordered, and glared at the two riffmar scurrying to
comply, wrestling between them a large stalk for him to chew. He took it
moodily in his jaws, and sent the two off to tend the riffmar-bud cultures,
and then to feed themselves. As they wriggled their twiglike feet into the
nutrient beds, Cephean turned his thoughts elsewhere, and brooded on his
plight.
He had left in a huff, before his time, taking a space shell from the docks
without checking or preparing. Bad judgment, admittedly, but who would
have thought that a simple shell could malfunction? Starflight was so
bloody easy—use riffmar to run the shell, nothing complicated, and let your
mind guide the ship, like the interdreaming of the quarm, but with no broil-
damn other minds cluttering up your thoughts. Lord-o, he had needed a
break from Corneph's incessant nagging, never letting him rest a moment
without conforming to the quarm—mix, mix, mingle, never leave a corner
of anyone unexplored. Become a plant, become an alien, broil-dammit was
he so strange, that he could not stand it?
Ooh, just to be free of them! Lord-o, that's why he had fled, but not to
make it permanent.
(Did they offend? Is that why you do not wish company?)
(Whass?)

He was stalled, stalled. Why would the damn thing not fly! Seated in his
sunken dais, he grilled the riffmar on their findings (though they had been
untended, so how could they find anything?), and he hurled abuse at their
quivering forms, and finally leaped screaming, scattering them in fear.
Odomilk! he shrieked, and sucked on the pods with a vengeance while the
riffmar huddled in a corner.
Nothing like pungent odomilk—but still, he must attend to the riffmar.
They could perform certain chores by rote, but hardly what he was now
demanding—and certainly he had to be careful with the six that were left.
Perhaps there was a maintenance recorder.
Humming, he set them to locating the memory-cube and then obeying
the cube's silent recitation. Hey-now, the thoughtflow amp seemed to work,
so maybe the controls were just out of kilter. This was more like it—a pity
he hadn't thought of the recorder sooner, but after all he was a forest-singer
and not a craft-tech. Corneph—that sot-rotted nuisance would be laughing
if he knew. His bloody arrogance could make anyone leave home. Corneph,
with his stinking empathetic grin, diving like a fool into the quarm,
dragging you off on a mindlark whether invited or not. Lord-o-lord, to be
rid of him was worth even this!
A riffmar peeked shyly at him, awaiting recognition.
Useless plants! He recognized with a fast swat. Hah! Two with one
blow!
But he needed those two to fly! He prodded them agitatedly, but it was
no use, they were dead. He sprang to all fours in alarm, his whiskers curling
and twisting. What had they come to tell him?
The four remaining riffmar huddled at the control tree, and he
approached cautiously. What had they learned?
Hsss. They quivered, struggling to formulate a coordinated reply.
Hssshell ffly . . . h-nneed more uss. One of them collapsed, from the strain,
and the others bent and picked it up and carried it to the nutrient bed.
Hsssss.
That was it, then; he was finished. He had caught the image, brief but
sufficient—the controls had been upset by a passing storm; with the help of
the memory cube, the problem had been corrected, and now all he needed
were six riffmar to operate controls. And all he had left were four.

Rage boiled slowly in his stomach. He could not fly with only four, and
he could not speed the growth of the buds; he could switch on a distress
beacon, but no one would hear it—he had flown purposely beyond cynthian
space. He was finished, and he knew it. He was embarrassed beyond
description.
A low wail emerged from his throat, and through a haze he saw the
riffmar shrink from his anger. Damn them! Hissing, spitting, he leaped at
the control tree, rebounded with a crash of breaking elements, and launched
himself at the riffmar. Two fell to his flailing paws, but in his madness he
lost all thought, and the other two were able to flee shrieking to safety
behind the nutrient bed. He forgot them, and bounded back over his dais,
skidded, and slammed broadside into the wall. Stunned, he staggered away
and hurled himself yowling into the control tree again, and he smashed
amidst splinters and tumbled, battered, to the deck.
Much later, on awakening, he tore savagely into his stock of bramleaf,
and gorged himself on odomilk. He ignored the riffmar, ignored the broken
controls, ignored his shell's warbling distress call, and concentrated solely
on glutting himself to his limit on bramleaf and odomilk—and not long
afterward he sank groaning onto the dais, laid his head upon his tail, and
slept.
(My god, such violence! No discipline! It's no wonder you can't
coordinate with me in the net.)
(Ffsscrewhyou who kannnoss kheef hyor mind h-where hiss be-hlongss.
Ffsscrew, Caharleel.)
Awakening, he hissed in pain, his stomach a hard knot of burning
complaint. His fur was matted and disheveled; he wanted badly oh so badly
to regurgitate, or failing that to die. He fumed in silent agony, his eyes
watery and nearly blind, thoughts orbiting one another in meaningless
jokes. Could he maybe work the little knobs himself, with his big, clumsy
paws? Yeh. Ooh, to throw the fiercest tantrum in history! But he could
hardly move for the cramps in his abdomen.
When his head cleared somewhat, he turned grimly to his final
challenge: how to arrange for himself a classical demise. He looked
balefully at the riffmar, sssking in the nutrient bed, and his violence stirred
once more in his blood.

No, he must spare them, for the moment. Had he grounds for demise?
Dereliction in space was embarrassing, to be sure. Depressing, frustrating,
infuriating. But was it humiliation enough? He could not be certain. What
he really needed, for a demise that would put even Corneph to shame, was
to be seen a victim rather than merely stupid.
(Demise? What . . . ?)
Later, mulling and gnawing at his tail, he was startled by a CLUNGGG
ringing through the shell. That buzzing outside—was there something out
there? Fascinated, terrified, he listened. What, what! There were thumps,
small quiet ones moving in a progression around the shell. Lord-o, lord-o,
was space going crazy? He listened with his mind, and nearly spat with
surprise. An alien walked on the outside of his shell. Rescue!
Frightened stormy panic flashed suddenly, and ebbed. Gathering his
wits, he sent the two riffmar to ready the airlock to receive the alien. What
better humiliation could possibly be asked?
Now, with assurance at last, he began to plan a truly graceful demise.
Cephean, you mean you came aboard this ship, meaning from the start to
—?
Fffssilly ssfhool! Hnow hyou haff h-made h-me ffssay iss!
But I'm trying to help you get home again.
Ffssthupid! H-noss h-my home-ss.
You could find your way home all right. Is your humiliation the only
reason you want to destroy this ship? Wouldn't you rather go back to laugh
at Corneph or something?
Cephean, lurching, almost crashing through the separation layer: No, no!
Noss Corneph hin mi-mind!
Carlyle, wondering if he was the only blockhead around: Cephean—I
didn't rescue you to embarrass you, or even just to save you. I needed help
myself. There's no humiliation in offering help—and that's what I want you
to do, offer me help.
The separation layer shimmered like a curtain, and Cephean brought his
face close, peering at Carlyle. Whass h-about hyor frenss hyou halways
haff?
Oh, them. Yes. They're different, I thought you knew—memory,
imagination—sort of like your quarm, I guess.
Hyou heff no quarm! Scornfully. Or was that envy?

No. But we like to think we have something like it; though sometimes
wishful thinking is as close as we come. Except for the dreampool. And that
can be scary—but it helps us work better in the rig, afterwards, and that's
why you're here.
H-wy hyor ffrens noss helf?
That's the whole point. That was all me in the net flying—and my crazy
imagination. Maybe I could do it again, but it would never get me through
the Flume.
Whass iss Flume?
Again? Here:
The Flume. Breakup of the Reld Current, spawner of a dozen new ones.
Riggers passing at peril—like ancient sonarmen—sounding the depths
carefully, guessing at reflection layers, scattering layers, deep transmission
layers. Change was the only constant, and things could happen fast. A
whirlpool luring a ship into its vortex; a waterspout lifting a ship and
pinwheeling it to tumble lifeless back into the sea; white-water rapids
smashing a ship and flinging the pieces to the heavens. Or—the Flume
mastered and sailed.
H-we kann noss!
Yes we can, dammit. Ready for a demonstration in cooperation?
The cynthian sputtered in confusion. Whass?
The setting changed abruptly. They were suddenly both standing on a
hillside meadow, facing each other under a beaming sun. The meadow lay
part way upland in a range of rugged hills. Below and around it sprawled
tufts and cushions of forest. Whass! Cephean was both astonished and
indignant and his copper eyes flashed like buttons in his black velvet face.
This, Carlyle perceived, was a bit too much like the tricks old Corneph used
to pull. Well, too bad. This is your world, isn't it, Cephean?
Hyiss. Suspiciously, almost angrily.
Carlyle nodded. The dreampool drew as much from Cephean as from
him; what the cynthian didn't know was that neither of them was in control.
There was a sound of giggles, badly suppressed. Two riffmar poked their
heads out of the grass, and sat up hiccupping.
Another sound—a hissing chortle higher on the hill. Corneph was
watching them delightedly; he looked like Cephean, only smaller, and with

a single brown streak across his black, furry breast. (Carlyle sensed sudden
malevolence from Cephean.)
Not far from Corneph, Janofer sat serenely watching; and presumably
Skan and Legroeder were somewhere about.
That's the whole cast, Cephean. Carlyle turned about, scuffled his feet in
the turf, breathed great lungfuls of air, and gazed at the almost torturously
green countryside. Will you show me around? he said to the cynthian.
Cephean spat and sputtered in perplexity, and finally pawed his nose and
allowed, Hyiss, ss-all righ-ss. He led the way downhill, trotting on all fours
with the riffmar at his heels. Carlyle followed him into the woods, lost him
momentarily, then found him again unconcernedly waiting for him beneath
a stand of slender, smooth-trunked trees.
Sshtopf. He stopped. The cynthian sat impassively, his molten eyes wide.
The riffmar became very still. A sound passed through the air like a flying
shadow, a pure musical note. Or was it in his thoughts? Carlyle could not
tell, even when the note was first repeated, and then followed by several
others of different pitch, and different timbre. Notes began to fall like rain,
reedy mournful sounds, and crystal tinkling belltones, and a shower of
melohorns, and a skyful of sounds for which he had no name. There seemed
to be no melody. But as he listened another kind of pattern developed in his
mind: visual, of colors, of blending, sagging clays, of red sands tumbling
from cliffs; and the smell of fresh-cut grass and broken cedar. His vision
blurred, and instead of Cephean he saw a community of cynthians working,
directing riffmar, while the larger delmar were busy at construction.
A cacophony of silent thoughts and commands made him cringe and the
vision blurred but he glimpsed a quarm, a circle of cynthians, their normal
cacophony subdued to an intense mumble. Again: cynthians at study
(investigating what?), their sparkling eyes gazing into oddly shaped
crystals. Hum of probing thoughts. The vision broke.
The music-rain slowed, trickled wetly, and stopped. He looked at
Cephean in amazement; the cynthian now sat beneath a cleverly woven
bower of trees, looking utterly relaxed. Carlyle blinked. Had the trees
themselves bent to Cephean's designs? The music had engaged him so, he
had literally seen nothing happen. You did that? he whispered.
Hyiss.

The visions—had they been a deliberate distraction, or merely an
undertone, background noise?
He never got the chance to ask. A boisterous scream shattered the forest
stillness. He looked around, startled. An enormous flying beast coasted over
the woods and descended, crashing through the trees, and landed on the
forest floor nearby with a CRUMP. It was a koryf, a dragonlike creature
from Garsoom's Haven. Carlyle had seen one once, and had been terrified—
as he was now.
The beast screamed again, and spat acid saliva that fell smoking among
the trees. The creature was hideous, crumpled and grey, and it stank, even
from a distance.
Whassss! Cephean hissed shrilly.
Carlyle explained, and added quickly that the creature would quite likely
try to kill them. This one came from my memory, he thought woefully.
The koryf beat its wings furiously, and lurched towards the two with a
cry like a sigh of death. Carlyle back-pedaled further into the trees, but
Cephean did not move. SSTHOFF! his mind shrieked at the approaching
beast, seemingly convinced that if a riffmar would respond, so would a
koryf.
The koryf lunged spitting and wailing at the much smaller cynthian.
Cephean fled after Carlyle.
You can't stand against it, Carlyle said stupidly, as he huddled against a
tree. Cephean just glared at him. The riffmar scrambled past and did not
stop.
Carlyle gestured frantically. We can't outrun it, not far, and we can't fight
it. We'll have to outwit it.
Sss-how?
It's stupid, do you understand that? It's telepathic, but it's stupid. The
koryf was crashing through the trees towards them. His words spilled out in
a jumble. We've got to distract it—it can only concentrate on one thing at a
time. If we each try to hold its attention we can confuse it. Then—Jesus, I
don't know what then, but if we don't do that much it will kill us for sure.
Somewhere, Corneph cackled a cynthian cackle.
Hyou bross heem Caharleel! Cephean protested angrily, not saying
whether he meant Corneph or the koryf.

Carlyle shoved Cephean violently, and scrambled himself as the koryf
smashed with beating wings through the last shielding trees. Urging
Cephean on, Carlyle stumbled to gain some distance. He gasped and leaned
heavily against a tree as Cephean, beside him, snarled at the beast and then
turned to resume his complaint.
Carlyle was saved answering as Janofer interceded soundlessly from
wherever she watched. He had no choice, Cephean. Carlyle looked up in
amazement. Gev can only get so much help from us, and no more. We are
not so real as we seem. But you can help, Cephean, if only you will try. Do
what he says now—you must! Her voice was soft as always but urgent.
Bitterness and gratitude rose in his throat, in his nostrils at her
compassionate and humiliating presence.
Cephean snorted, but looked off into space, thinking, pawing at his
whiskers. Finally he ducked his head around to face Carlyle. Whass h-we d-
hoo?
The koryf screamed, as it deciphered their location and started smashing
its way forward again. Trees began toppling terrifyingly, and gusts of foul
wind filled the woods.
You run to the right, I'll run left! Carlyle shouted. You've got to keep its
attention, and I'll do the same, keep it confused. Now GO!
The tree before them was suddenly unrooted in the koryf's jaws. Before
it could drop the tree to attack, Carlyle and Cephean bolted in opposite
directions. The koryf hesitated, and turned to follow Cephean, roaring.
Carlyle began jumping and screaming, STOP! STOP!, but when the koryf
gave no sign of listening he took a deep breath and charged after it. There
were no stones on the ground, so as he approached the beast he scooped up
clods of earth and hurled them at the koryf's head. He missed, but found a
broken branch and threw that as the koryf snapped close to where Cephean
crouched. The branch glanced from its forehead, and it swung about in rage,
lifting its wings like tree-bowers, and screamed at Carlyle. Carlyle turned
and ran.
When he had gained a little distance, he looked back. The koryf had
begun following him, but he could see Cephean in the distance, seemingly
stalking the beast. The koryf crashed dangerously close, and he could smell
its acrid breath, but he waited, ready to run, thinking, come to me, come to
me. An image of raw, red meat came unbidden into his mind and he

stiffened, thinking he was intercepting the koryf's thoughts, but the koryf
stopped suddenly, and wavered. It twisted its head to look at Cephean, and
when it did so, Carlyle filled his mind with the same image of raw meat.
The koryf turned back, spitting, but did not attack. An image of a wounded,
struggling animal appeared, and the koryf turned again toward the cynthian.
Carlyle replied in kind.
After a minute of confusion, the koryf suddenly made up its mind, and it
charged after Cephean. Carlyle ran after it, hurling dirt and branches, and
screaming. He had to chase it some distance before it stopped and turned,
and they could begin their game of confusion once more.
This time they held it longer. Carlyle called encouragement to Cephean
as they toyed the beast back and forth. When the spell finally broke, the
koryf turned on Carlyle and snapped so close he could hear the teeth clack
in his ear, and he ran and did not stop running until he was out of the trees
and in the meadow.
Stupid! he realized immediately as the koryf broke out of the trees right
behind him. But Cephean appeared at the edge of the woods and screamed a
mental picture of a bloody, gutted animal. When the koryf hesitated, Carlyle
hurled a stone, and knocked it on the head. The koryf vacillated.
Carlyle thought of a snoring mouse, concentrated all his thoughts on the
image of the tiny, sleepy animal. He felt the image reinforced, as Cephean
took it up; and suddenly the koryf merely looked confused. Out of the cover
of the trees, the beast was as frightening as before, but uglier and less
mythical. Carlyle thought of sleep, of peace, of satiation. He imagined
himself after gluttonous eating, and that thought too was reinforced.
The koryf, after a while, folded its wings and settled down to watch the
two from a more comfortable position. It began to look like a shriveled, big-
jawed elephant minus trunk and ears. Lowering its weight to the ground, it
seemed to decide that there was no point in making hasty decisions.
Two minutes later, it was snoring loudly and vulgarly, and Cephean was
studying Carlyle with flickering, astonished eyes.
Janofer smiled from the edge of the forest. Corneph appeared also and
hissed grudgingly. That seemed to please Cephean.
Carlyle was not sure just what the cynthian was thinking. But if Cephean
had believed Janofer, did any of the rest matter?

* * *
Carlyle lifted his eyes and looked across the dreampool with unutterable
fatigue. His neck was cramped, his arms and legs were sodden, and he was
drenched with sweat. He looked at Cephean, who was grumbling and
stretching with far less than his usual energy.
Carlyle climbed down from the ledge. He nodded to the cynthian, but
neither of them spoke.
Part Three—The Flume
The last day before Sedora reached the end of the Reld, Carlyle suddenly
found himself taking a liking to the riffmar; he whiled an hour playfully
boxing with them, and later, as they were sunning themselves under a lamp
in the nutrient box, he came around and squirted them with a water bottle.
They giggled hoarsely, and seemed to enjoy it. Cephean said nothing about
this, and Carlyle wondered whether it was really the riffmar he played with,
or an amused cynthian. He could not be sure; he rather hoped it was the
riffmar.
They practiced once more in the net, and Cephean was cooperative but
unenthusiastic. Carlyle did not press the issue. Fortunately, the Flume was
coming upon them quickly, and the time for worry was over. They would
either make it, or they would not.
Carlyle took a last draught of hermit ale, frothy and coolly refreshing,
and then he summoned Cephean from a last pod of odomilk, and led him to
the bridge. He could not guess at his crewmate's thoughts.
The net was flushed with a slight excess of power, a result of Carlyle's
final retuning of the fluxpile. He flexed his spidery wings gently to burn off
the extra energy.
Finally he took a last few moments to settle himself calmly and alertly in
the net, and to glance about him. The Reld was running fast, and grumbling
as it accelerated toward its end.
Ready? he asked. Hyiss, answered Cephean.
* * *
The current became a powdery, tumbled ski slope, and they were
speeding downhill into a snowy, evening mist. What lay below was
obscured. He folded the net beneath him into skis, and they thundered

pleasantly through the snow. He flexed and bounced through the banks;
Sedora was heavy, but so far she was riding well.
There was no way of guessing when the vision might change or how.
Was the cynthian viewing a similar scene? Cephean, what do you see? How
does it feel? Cephean homm-humm'd in reply, and Carlyle caught a
stunning glimpse through his senses—a fleeting landscape, prismatic and
crystalline, and dustily wet. And downhill speed, growing. Carlyle was
reassured.
H-you wanss chahange, Caharleel? Cephean queried nervously.
No, this is fine for now. Cephean was uneasy, then, but seemed alert and
ready to assist. Little more could be expected.
The speed picked up even more, and the snow was turning harder; the
skis rumbled beneath him, and began to shimmy and skitter on the run. The
light on the snowscape was fading into twilight, and he began to lose some
of his confidence.
Without warning, he thumped into a mogul and was slammed violently
into the air, his bones quivering from the impact, his breath sharp and
scared. The ship's mass took him off balance and twisted him sideways and
off keel as he fell—and it was Cephean who brought them down safely, his
heavy tail swinging outboard to counterbalance Carlyle's torque. They
landed hard, skidding and swaying, and swooped onward down the trail.
Good work. Thanks.
Yiss.
The air began to mist, then, and the snow softened under the runners.
The image was disintegrating; the snow wilderness was blurring into
fleeting, hazy clouds. And then the current dropped, shifted, and turbulence
grabbed at them like vacuum.
They had been dumped into the Flume.
Carlyle pulled his arms and his breath taut, and fought not to become
excited. The ship was plummeting uncontrolled, and he had no idea whether
he should try to slow it or steer it or leave it alone. Ride it easy until
something develops, he called, finding security in the sound of the
command. Wind was rushing deafening in his ears.
Whass haffenss? he heard in an urgent, frightened whisper.
I'm not sure.

The turbulent winds were forming ahead into visions of glowing
streamers; chaotic, thundering, furiously interclashing. Their downward fall
sloped into forward motion again, and an ungodly racket shook the ship's
frame until it groaned in the buffeting net. Sedora plunged toward the
center of the fury—and something was changing.
Another vision, Carlyle shouted, startled by a new and thunderous roar in
the net. A noise of crashing water threatened to shatter his ears. Waterfall!
We've got to ride this one, or it will break us apart! he bellowed, not
knowing if he was heard.
He dug his arms deep into the hurtling water, felt Cephean doing the
same. The ship crashed thundering through foaming spray, dashed amid
shining boulders—and shot over the edge.
It dropped like a cannonball (skirting how many lightyears? Carlyle
wondered ludicrously). Ready to bring the stern about! They would have to
impact in the cataract basin nose-first, or the shock would demolish them;
but they would have to come about under their own power or the wrenching
turn would accomplish the same thing. He would have to lift the nose as
Cephean kicked the stern . . .
Sedora slammed into the basin like an ungodly pile-driver, an exploding
jack-hammer, and smashed Carlyle's thoughts and teeth and steel neural
arms, and sent pinwheels of fire through shocking darkness.
Carlyle wrenched before blacking, and Cephean kicked, and the ship
screamed through its skeleton and its skin but refused to yield to the
torrential currents. Then it bent like a maddened porpoise, and rocketed
shrieking out of the water-cyclone and coasted straight, shivering, intact.
Carlyle forced his eyes to see again and gaped in amazement that the
madness had passed and the way lay ahead, sparkling, clear—as smooth as
a river.
We cleared it! he shouted.
Hyiss yiss yiss! Where h-we gho? the cynthian burbled, still frightened
and delighted at finding himself alive, and open and generous enough to let
Carlyle see all of that.
To the Banks, to Cunnilus Banks, you sonofabitching cat! he yelled
joyously.
But all was not yet over. Sedora still scooted and danced and dashed, and
Carlyle and Cephean were jerked from their delight to hold the ship on

course, in its pathway among scattering and shifting currents that were the
Flume breaking into its upwellings and downwellings and dying threads of
energy. The effort was grueling, and the rig strained and stretched between
the two; and once Carlyle shouted angrily and brutally at his alien
companion, and once Cephean in furious backlash almost slewed the ship
into a sulking dive. But neither could have managed alone, and Carlyle
often drew on Cephean's support, and even relied on the cynthian's vision
when his own grew blurry in weariness.
The currents tore at them and nagged them, but in the end they
succeeded, and Sedora hurtled coasting out of the shifting winds, and
Cunnilus Banks glittered before them like a starry, snowy hill—bright and
welcoming after their journey.
Carlyle pointed Sedora's nose carefully, deciding on Garsoom's Haven.
(Gammon's Annex, the original destination, was too far abeam, and what
the hell, he could show Cephean a real live koryf.) Then he settled back in
the net and relaxed, watching the powdery drift of the stars and chatting a
bit with the cynthian.
Not a bad piece of flying, eh, Cephean?
H-you kids h-me, whass, yiss, Caharleel? Why h-yor ffrens no helff? Hi
needs broil-damn odomilk, iss whass hi needs.
Ho, you weasel, I think I'll teach you to drink ale. Maybe a spot of
whiskey, no?
H-no, yach! H-you ffoison h-me, yiss?
Look at it this way, Cephean, I'll bet it's something Corneph never tried.
Ssrue, fferhaffs, yiss.
It's settled, then. Just to show no hard feelings.
Yorgh. Hey whass? H-yor frenss h-again?
Carlyle, hardly aware of the drift of his own thoughts, was as startled as
the cynthian.
Janofer, clear and beautiful in the net, was staring at the two with mock-
beady eyes. What's this, Gev? You two are starting to sound like old friends;
vicious.
Okay, okay.
Don't be embarrassed. It's nice.
Yeh. Enough's enough. Cephean, you ready for that ale? (Janofer
withdrew back into his mind, grinning.)

H-you kray-ssee.
Grinning himself, Carlyle pulled gently from the net and rubbed his eyes
thoughtfully. The road ahead seemed clear, and he was ready whether
Cephean was or not.
*****
[Return to Table of Contents]
OceanofPDF.com

Though All the Mountains Lie Between
Behind the story:
Not long after my novel Star Rigger's Way was published, I got a tip
from a writer friend that another new writer, an ambitious fellow by the
name of Orson Scott Card, was editing an anthology of dragon stories, and
was looking for material. I started thinking. Dragon story. Could I write a
dragon story? Nothing immediately came to mind. And then I remembered
a scene in Star Rigger's Way—some riggers in a starport bar, shooting the
bull about their exploits. One of them, fairly inebriated, said,
"Just in on a long haul from the Dreznelles. But that was actually the
first time I rigged in that particular direction. Usually I work the northern
Aeregian lanes—I like to take slow floaters and duel a bit with the dragons
along that mountain route to Lexis and Venice." Jolson caught a waiter's
eye and procured another bulb.
That was it, just a passing reference. But it was enough to get me
thinking. Could there be dragons in the Flux? Dragons that were real
creatures? Hmm.
I also, at some point, thought of the wonderful Cordwainer Smith story,
"The Game of Rat and Dragon," which began with the memorable opening
line: "Pinlighting is a hell of a way to earn a living." In that story,
interstellar pilots team with laminated cat brains to fend off marauding
dragons in the planoform space between the stars. I'm sure I must have read
some of Ann McCaffrey's dragon stories by then, too, and although I don't
recall those stories being a specific influence, it's hard to imagine that they
wouldn't have played some part on at least a subconscious level. That's one
of the things about writing, and I think it's true for most writers: Our heads
are filled with ideas born of our own experiences, vicarious experiences
drawn from reading and from hearing other people's stories, and stuff that
just comes into our heads from God or the Muse or our deep subconscious.
They all swirl around in there, and sometimes one thing catalyzes a reaction
between two others, and an alchemy occurs, and out comes a story that's

connected to all those things, but is something new. I suppose all of art is
like that.
In the end, I came up with a tale set some time before the events of Star
Rigger's Way. In the novel, I had established that riggers—being by nature
often sensitive and vulnerable—operated under the protection of a Guild,
which negotiated and monitored all piloting contracts. This new story
portrayed a rigger seeking to escape the tyranny of an abusive ship's master,
a need that would play into her interactions with a dragon. For her to have
been in that situation, the story had to have taken place earlier in the history
of rigging.
The short story, expanded and reshaped, later formed the opening portion
of the novel Dragons in the Stars, and as I was sketching out that novel, I
realized I had a much longer tale on my hands. In the end, it spawned a
sequel, Dragon Rigger, told in large measure from the viewpoint of the
dragons (a personal favorite of mine). Those two novels are now available
as single ebooks or together, in a boxed set called Dragon Space: A Star
Rigger Omnibus.
But this story is where that particular journey began.
_______________
. . . In those days before the founding of the Guild, riggers lived with
constant insecurity. Shrewd masters controlled them—often with subtle
means, but controlled them nevertheless; and riggers then rarely supported
one another against abusive masters. But if they suffered in the normal
world, they found freedom in the net, in the dream by which they steered
their ships, which their masters could never hope to share. The lucky rigger
found a way to carry that freedom out of the net, to the other side of life . . .
—Jona'Jon'
Gazing Into Yesteryear
for ages 7-11
The starship moved quietly through the Flux, though its motion was
invisible from the bridge, where Jael stood facing Mogurn. Only

instruments told her of the ship's motion; she would see it for herself, more
clearly, when she entered the rigger-net. She waited anxiously.
Mogurn's eyes were dark and stern. With his hands folded across his
heavy chest, he studied her with those eyes, kept her frozen. "All right,
Jael," he said, releasing her from his gaze at last. He glanced one final time
over the thicket of instrumentation in the nose of the bridge, and then he
indicated the rigger-station with a tilt of his head. "Go ahead and take the
net," he said. "Don't tire yourself. " With that he turned away, his robelike
tunic spinning in folds, and he strode from the bridge. The door darkened to
opacity behind him, leaving Jael alone in the ship's small control cell.
He doesn't trust me, she thought nervously, staring after Mogurn. Well, I
don't care. She turned and made another brief inspection of the console,
even though Mogurn had already done that with her, and then she climbed
into the rigger-station, a couch recessed in a tight alcove on the starboard
side of the bridge. She stretched out and relaxed gradually, staring at several
mirrored monitors overhead as she tried to forget about Mogurn and think
instead of the ship, of the Flux. She shut her eyes and let her neck settle
against the neural contacts in the couch.
Her senses darkened and exploded outward into the rigger-net, outward
from the ship, into the Flux. Into the streams of space. Jael opened her eyes
to a vast and clear purplish sky; she floated like a seed high over a strangely
glowing blue- and green-mottled landscape. The net glittered faintly around
her, binding her to the invisible ghost of a spaceship which it was her duty
to guide. She spread her arms, and in the net her arms billowed outward as
great wings, filling with a rising updraft of wind. Jael (and the ship) rose,
soaring.
The landscape beneath her was an odd matrix of color, reflecting her
mood. It was her own image, painted by her mind on the flowing canvas of
the Flux, on the currents which carried her and her ship through the curved
passageways of space among the stars, bypassing the endless lightyears of
normal space. The currents and tides of the Flux were objectively real, but it
was her imagination, her thoughts and fantasies transmuted through the
rigger-net, that detailed the realm through which she navigated.
Her feelings were quiet, now, and she flew silently through empty skies,
daydreaming. She felt mildly depressed, neither happy nor actively
unhappy, and she flew slowly, not even attempting to seek out faster wind

currents. Hours went by, and she was content to float, to drift. Occasionally
the landscape below shimmered and flared in response to tremors within
her, aches which she kept unnamed. Certain longings she preferred not to
allow expression; but whether she willed it or not, the landscape flared—
now more and now less, sometimes with unfocused green fire and sapphire
sparkles and sometimes with tiny billowing bloody plumes. The ache was
always there within her and the landscape always responded to it.
She wished she could change the image somehow, drift away and leave
the ache behind.
The com-signal chimed softly in her consciousness, and Mogurn's voice
broke into her solitude. Jael, what's wrong? The feedback out here looks
poor.
The landscape turned to brimstone and filled the sky with burning haze.
She tried to control it, to cover her anger. Nothing's wrong, she answered.
Everything's fine.
Are you sure? Mogurn's voice was low, disapproving. She envisioned
him on the bridge, squinting anxiously, leering at her still form in the
rigger-station. His voice was bodiless in the net, but physically he must be
very near. She countered an urge to avoid him by retreating to the
extremities of the net.
I'm fine, she said. The image was disintegrating, creating a potentially
dangerous condition. She drew more energy into the net, trying to stabilize
the image.
I'm depending on you, said Mogurn.
Jael didn't bother to answer. She thought hard a moment, searching her
imagination, and then she focused on the angry horizon. The colors bled,
and crimson sunset swelled over mountains to the northwest. Mountains . . .
The route through those mountains was actually the most direct to their
destination, Lexis; but it was more dangerous, by all reports, than the
skirting route Mogurn had ordered. Still, he had not absolutely forbidden
her to fly in the mountains, and after all she was the rigger—she chose the
images and the streams of the Flux to ride. Ultimately the choice was hers.
The net sparkled as she grew excited—at the thought of danger, at the
prospect of quickening the flight. She knew she shouldn't.
Abruptly she transformed herself into a mountain eagle, and she caught a
new current and soared northwest, pulse racing, net glittering like diamonds

in the Flux.
Sunset ahead. Twilight. Mountains jagged and black against a maroon
sky, deepening into evening.
She scanned ahead with the edges of her mind. Would there be dragons?
Riggers in the starports boasted of dueling with dragons along the Aeregian
mountain routes. It seemed that there was a special quality of the Flux in
this corridor which demanded mountain imagery and, sometimes, dragons.
Many riggers believed the dragons to be living inhabitants of the Flux;
others said they were just especially compelling images. Either way, it
sounded dangerous; it sounded glorious.
A sense of quiet anticipation settled around her as she winged toward the
mountains. She rather hoped that dragons might appear, to ease her
loneliness.
The com-signal chimed again, chilling her pleasure. What now?
Isn't it time you came out? asked a bodiless Mogurn.
Is it? she replied, shivering in a sudden crosswind.
Six hours, Jael.
Six hours? she repeated, stalling.
What's wrong, Jael?
It may not be safe right now.
Not safe? Why not?
She spread her wings to catch a warm updraft. Because—and she
hesitated, then said—there may be dragons.
His eyes squinted furiously, in her imagination. Dragons? Dragons? The
mountain route?
Jael beat her wings furiously. Yes.
Find a stretch of safe passage. And then you come out and see me, Jael.
His voice touched her like ice, and she stopped pumping. His anger made
her tremble.
Yes, Mogurn, she answered, and the world grew cold with fear and
loneliness. She did not want to face him, but she had no choice. Not if she
wanted to receive the pallisp tonight.
Banking left, she flew parallel to the still-distant range, where she
thought she could safely leave the net. But she stalled, gliding, watching the
ominous peaks to her right, wishing that the fear and the loneliness would
somehow subside. Finally she reluctantly set the stabilizers, the starship's

sea-anchor in the Flux; and she set the alarms. Her senses melted back into
her body as she withdrew from the net, and she opened her eyes, blinking,
and looked around the rigger-cell and the bridge. Gloomy. Lonely. Nothing
but instruments to greet her. She preferred it that way.
She climbed uneasily from the pilot-station and stretched. Her stomach
said hunger, and her limbs said weariness. But Mogurn had said come
immediately. Sighing, she left the bridge and went to Mogurn's cabin door;
the ship was only a small floater, and the compartments were tightly
clustered, so it was a matter of a few steps. She pressed the signal fearfully.
The door paled and she stepped inside.
Mogurn was seated facing her, smoking. When she entered, he rose and
gestured for her to sit. She slid onto a narrow bench-seat; above and behind
her an expensive crystal tapestry covered half of one wall. Mogurn exhaled
sharp-scented smoke and frowned, studying the end of his long, tubular
smoking pipe. "Jael, why did you disobey me?" he said.
Jael shivered, certain now that he would deny her the pallisp. "I meant
no disobedience—" she stammered, which was at least half true. He'd not
forbidden her to rig through the mountains; he had only made it clear that
he disapproved of that route, that in fact perhaps he was afraid of the
mountains, or of the dragons.
Mogurn stepped closer, hovering over her, alternately blocking and
exposing the light panel behind him. Jael squinted nervously. "Did I not say
that I preferred the longer route, Jael? Was there some special circumstance
you haven't told me of, some need to take the more perilous course?"
Was that fear in his voice? No; he was the master. Jael bit her lip. "I—
was having trouble—the other way. But this way—I think the stories are
just stories. Dragons! They can't be real."
"What is 'real' to a rigger?" Mogurn asked sharply. "What is in the Flux,
or what is in the mind? Either can destroy us."
Jael nodded mutely.
"And, drunken sods though most of those riggers may be, one should
never laugh at a rigger legend, should one?'
Jael winced. "No."
"Now, are we still close enough to our original course to turn back?" He
exhaled another cloud of smoke, which drifted past her face to be sucked
into the ventilators. She opened her mouth to reply in the affirmative, but

something stuck in her throat. She shook her head. "We can't avoid the
mountains?" he growled, and she shook her head again. Mogurn stared at
her, smoking. After a long moment, he turned away.
When he turned back, he held a small, gleaming cylinder with a dull
grey sphere attached to one end. "All right, Jael. It is time for your pallisp,"
he said. His eyes showed no kindness, but his words nevertheless sent a
thrill of relief down Jael's back. Unhappiness and loneliness welled up out
of her soul in anticipation.
At Mogurn's gesture, she bent forward and pushed her hair up from the
back of her neck. Mogurn stood close beside her and lowered the pallisp
until the grey ball touched the base of her skull. She felt the touch, cool—
and then a warmth seeped into her from the touch, a warmth which
encircled the ugly, waiting feelings of alienation, of fear, of anger, and
which closed around those feelings like flowing blood, heating and soothing
and transforming the emotions, stripping and softening shells of defense
and filling her with love, with companionship . . .
The wave turned cold. Jael swayed with dizziness as a tide of paranoia
rushed over her. The pallisp was gone. She sat up, blinking wildly,
struggling to hold back tears. As Mogurn spoke, she could hardly see him
through blurred eyes. "That's all for tonight, Jael. You must understand
what obedience means, even for a rigger." Jael trembled, desperate with
pain and frustration. Finally she steadied herself. Mogurn said, nodding,
"Now, Jael, help me with my augmentor—and then you may retire."
Though dying to scream, she obeyed. Mogurn reclined and she fitted the
synaptic augmentor to his head and adjusted the controls; and when Mogurn
was reduced to a silent figure fluttering his hands or pawing himself with a
blind-eyed grin, Jael backed away and fled to her cabin. The pallisp—lord
how she wanted it, needed it to take the lonely bitterness from her soul and
turn it into something warm, and she would almost kill for it, but only
Mogurn knew how to use it and so she needed Mogurn, too. She stalked the
tiny deck space of her cabin, brooding, and then she tossed and writhed
violently in the sleep-field, unable to rest. Unable to stop thinking.
Unable to stop remembering.
Remembering . . . Dap, and the night and the dreamlink. Dap had been
gentle and yet willful, telling her of the intimacies to be shared by riggers
with the help of the dreamlink machine. And she had been young then—she

was young now—and she had been seduced by his earnestness, his offer of
friendship. Even now she could see his eyes, dark and earnest under silver
brows, as he told her, "We'll be looking right into one another, and our souls
will link . . ."
* * *
. . . They drove in a groundcar from the rigger hall to a cottage retreat
where the dreamlink machine was located. They glided over the roadway in
a gorgeous pink sunset. Jael steeled herself as they stopped, as they walked
up to the retreat—a real house, not a multiplex—but Dap touched her arm,
smiling. The gesture lent her enough strength to overcome her doubt and
her suspicion; and she entered the house with Dap, moving about touching
walls and banisters with nervous curiosity. In a small back living room, the
dreamlink machine, a specialized type of synaptic augmentor, was set up—
a half-silvered hemisphere which projected a golden glow when Dap turned
it on. "We'll just let the field coalesce for a few minutes," he said. "Sit down
and relax." He gestured to paired-off seats just at the fringes of the golden
field.
"What's going to happen? How will I know?" Jael asked nervously,
thinking to herself, he's your cousin good old Dap and why are you worried,
he knows what he's doing. Dap smiled at her question and leaned forward to
touch her hand gently. His eyes twinkled, and she thought he was amused
by her naïveté, and perhaps being just a bit flirtatious.
"You'll know," he said. "It's gentle." He settled into his seat, looking
relaxed but eager, and Jael realized she was worrying about nothing, after
all. Nothing.
They talked idly, this and that about riggers and family, and Jael nearly
forgot about the intensifying golden field in the room. Dap laughed, his
eyes seeking hers, as he talked about his last flight—a three-system hop,
fast and exciting, played in the net as skipping-stone islands in a tropic sea.
It was a teamwork freighter flight with another rigger, and he hinted at the
intimacy which underlay the teamwork. "It was the best part of the trip," he
said, his eyes still seeking hers, holding her eyes a little longer than she
wished them held. "My crewmate's gone out again," he added. "She left just
the other day on a long haul. I miss her already. But I wouldn't give up that
experience for anything."

Something in Jael choked silently, but she tried to contain it, to not
betray her envy. There was a warmth around her, though, a suffused glow
that somehow made it seem less important to hide her feelings. There was a
gentle feeling of release in her thoughts, and suddenly as she looked at Dap,
she no longer heard his words alone, but saw visions directly from his mind,
across the widening dreamlink. She saw the woman he'd rigged with, the
flights of fancy across space, the sly querying interest he felt now toward
her.
Feelings stirred in her heart which she couldn't control, and before she
was aware of what was happening, thoughts and images rushed up out of
her mind like a fountain, and spilled glittering into space, into the
dreamlink: glimpses of her half-brother steeling himself against their
uncaring father, unable even to reach to his sister. Jael herself at her father's
closed door, suffering and wanting and needing. Rigging an occasional
flight alone, too lonely to dare to seek companions. The images rushed out,
and so too did her anguish. Before she could stop herself, she'd released it
all, glimpses of herself that she'd never meant to let any person see.
In the dizzying energy of the dreamlink, the openness suddenly
wrenched, tore—as Dap betrayed his dismay, that someone could release
such staggering need. Betrayed his revulsion. Dap, who had promised
understanding. Without a word Dap closed himself from the dreamlink,
faded in the glow that now was a suffocating shield around a Jael who
fumed with self-loathing and hurt. Dap no longer would look at her, and as
she cried mutely in pain, he rose and left without her, left her there alone
and desperate in the dreamlink field.
She made herself her own last audience: she let her pain dance in the
field like threads of fire, tightening around her like a noose, choking her,
and no one here to help—there never was, neither Dap nor her father—they
forgot their promises and closed the door, one just like the other. She
wanted to kill them both, and she was going to kill herself with this hate if
she didn't do something to—
—control it—
—bottle it—
—which she did, wrapping it tightly around her finger and corking it
back inside. And then when she was safe, while she was still sane, she
turned off the dreamlink augmentor. And she returned to the hall where the

riggers mobbed and brooded, looking for assignments. And a few days later
she found Mogurn—
—who offered her a job. And the pallisp.
* * *
She started out of a brooding daze. Sleep was impossible. But insomnia
was better than the cruelty of dreams. She thought constantly of the pallisp,
which alone could soothe her anxieties and fears. A sophisticated
electrostim, the pallisp was illegal except in the hands of a psych-med; it
was terrifyingly addictive, just as Mogurn's synaptic augmentor was
addictive. But the pallisp was Jael's only release. Except for the net.
She could go to the net now, she realized. There she could let her
feelings go—shape them and play them out in images. It was perilous to let
dark feelings loose in the net, but was it any better to keep them corked
until they exploded? Mogurn would be furious if she went to the net now,
while he was under his bliss-wire. But if she didn't do something, she would
go crazy.
Leaving her cabin, she crept to the bridge. She climbed into the rigger-
cell. The neural contacts touched her neck and head.
Her senses, electrified, sprang into the net. Into the Flux. The ship
floated as a balloon-borne gondola in a nighttime sky, riding downrange
winds. Jael let the breeze soothe her, and then she changed altitude, seeking
higher crosswinds to take her to the mountains. The gondola swayed as she
found the airstream she wanted. She set her sights upon the approaching
range. A full, creamy moon sank slowly toward jagged black peaks, which
looked like sullen teeth against the horizon. Backlighted by the moon, a
blunt-nosed mass of clouds was moving out of the mountains toward her.
Spooky. She liked it: darkness and gloom and eerily lighted clouds which
looked like moving glaciers, or like bold angry pincers reaching out to
shred the balloon . . .
The bag abruptly disintegrated. She caught at the air with her hands. For
a moment she tumbled earthward, flailing, and then she controlled her panic
and remade the image. The ghostly net shimmered and became a varnished
glider, whispering downward through the air with her perched astraddle the
fuselage. She leveled out, thinking: Take care! A rigger had to be careful of
her images; dangerous thoughts could become real and could smash the

ship into splinters, to drift forever in the currents of this strange reality, the
Flux.
She let the wind soothe her face, let her feelings swirl ahead of her in the
sky, in the emptiness between her and the clouds. They could hurt no one
there. Time passed and she drew closer to the range.
The dragons stormed out of the clouds in random formation, like gulls
out of a rain squall.
Jael stared into the moonlit night in astonishment. Dragons! Dreadful
winged shapes, still distant, wheeled before the clouds. Sparks of red flame
flickered. She could scarcely believe it; dragons weren't real—they were
something from primal dreams, from legend, from racial fears and magical
desires. But they were here in the sky right now, and she hadn't summoned
them from her imagination—at least, she didn't think she had. Could they
be real? Creatures which lived here in the Flux? Coolly nervous, she
controlled the glider tightly.
The dragons grew in the moonlight. They soared and circled far off her
wingtips. Three dragons broke from the others and spiraled in closer. She
caught sharp glimpses of them as they swooped past her. One flew so close
that its scales looked like polished pewter in the moonlight, throwing light
back in subtly altered form, grey but not grey, as though banked fires lay
beneath the surface of the scales. The dragon's head was rough carved and
tipped with flaring, glowing nostrils, and its wings were serrated and broad,
not narrow as Jael had pictured dragons' wings to be. Its eyes glinted.
Another swept across her path, and then for a moment she lost sight, until
she saw the three orbiting at a distance, as though she and her glider were
hovering still in the air.
She held her course. What did one do when met by dragons? The old
riggers talked in the bars of dueling—but what did that mean? These
dragons looked capable of ruthless battle. Jael knew nothing of dueling and
did not want to know. She wished she had come another way.
Are you afraid? she heard.
She looked around, frightened, thinking that Mogurn had awakened and
was taunting her in the net as punishment. But the voice was not Mogurn's
voice.
You are afraid, said the voice. Shall we kill you now, as a kindness?

With a start she realized that a dragon was speaking. She peered into the
night and spotted a dragon alongside her whose eyes gleamed, betraying
him in the night. The dragon edged closer. What do you want? she said
hotly, fearfully.
The dragon's eyes flickered as it passed. The other two dragons retreated
to join the rest, and the one remaining banked close by her, its eyes glowing
brightly green. Turbulence buffeted Jael, and she fought to control the
glider. What are you doing? she cried. What do you want?
Does that mean "No"? inquired the dragon, exhaling a cloud of sparks. It
circled her. You prefer to die in battle?
What do you mean? Jael asked indignantly. Who are you, anyway? What
do you want—and how dare you speak to me that way? She hunched low,
pulled the net in around the edges.
Child! said the dragon. One question at a time! You want to know who I
am, and then—
You haven't answered that yet!
Nor shall I. But you should not have given me so many questions not to
answer. Do you think it's easy? Do you think you're the only rigger to come
crashing through here looking for a fight?
Then it's true! You dragons are real!
The dragon sighed or snarled. I never meant to tell you that! Duel,
rigger! It flipped in mid-air and bore down upon her, sparkling in the
moonlight. It grew larger, larger . . .
Jael screamed. The glider shuddered. The dragon thundered and raked
her with fire as it passed. What are you doing? she shrieked. Her skin
sizzled, and flames crackled along the wings of her glider. Quickly she
changed the image to a fireproof alloy glider. A flurry of snow cooled her
skin and quenched the flood of energy in the net.
The dragon approached again, flapping its wings slowly. It eyed her
suspiciously. Your reactions were slow, it said and moved off.
Jael looked after the dragon in astonishment. Suddenly it turned and
streaked toward her in another attack.
Jael froze. She tried to make herself small. The dragon grew with
terrifying speed. Stop it! she screamed.
Peeling off in surprise, the dragon circled warily. In the moonlit clouds,
the other dragons looked like small dots, wheeling and cavorting. All right,

said the dragon testily. If you didn't want to duel, why did you come here?
Jael was dizzy with confusion, fear, and anxiety. I didn't expect you to try
and kill me!
What did you expect?
I don't know.
The dragon sighed impatiently and leveled off. He spoke in what seemed
a mockingly measured and conciliatory tone. Well, all right, then. Do you
want to talk instead? I can see you're distressed, irritable—and who can
blame you? I feel the same way myself sometimes. You want to just fly along
and maybe chat lightheartedly? I promise not to try to kill you.
Jael eyed him suspiciously. Can we?
Sure. The dragon tipped his head and winked. Jael nodded, but she felt
uneasy. She decided to change her image; she became a winged pony and
beat against the wind. Very nice, said the dragon, falling in beside her.
She did not answer. The night was changing, the clouds closing in. A
moonbeam broke through the clouds to show mist swirling about a black
and jagged mountain slope. Do you know where we're going? asked Jael.
Yes, said the dragon craftily—and suddenly it sideslipped and seized her
in its talons. Jael's breath went out with a gasp. The dragon lowered its
head, jaws gaping, as though intending to rend her with its teeth. Its hot
breath washed back over her. Jael squirmed, twisted, and managed to roll
forward just enough to kick with her hind legs. Her hooves caught the
dragon squarely in the stomach and it wheezed, releasing her. Jael tumbled,
beating frantically with her wings but losing altitude, headfirst, through the
clouds. She glimpsed horrible sawtoothed slopes rushing to meet her.
Frantic, she transformed herself to a hawk, warped her wings sharply, and
pulled herself out of the dive. She spiraled back upward, squinting to evade
the dragon.
Well done, the dragon said grudgingly, right behind her.
In a panic she looped up fast and came down behind it. She dogged its
tail angrily, and warily. Liar! she shouted. You promised and you lied! Is
that a dragon's kind of honor?
Of course.
What? she screamed. Do you all lie?
What the dragon did next she could hardly believe. One moment it was
in front of her, and the next it was above her, and then behind, and it curled

its wing around her like a net and scooped her earthward. She trembled and
fluttered, a frightened bird, as they plummeted. The dragon lurched to a
landing on a black outcropping of rock. It craned its neck to sniff her with
smoldering nostrils and peer at her with green eyes. She puffed up her
feathers and stared back. You lied, and now you're going to kill me! she
squeaked.
The dragon seemed puzzled. Of course I lied. Didn't they tell you before
they sent you to duel?
No one sent me! Jael cried. I just came. She choked in the dragon's
breath. Would you mind letting me have some air?
Hissing, the dragon opened its wing. I think you'd better show yourself
as you really are, the creature warned.
The world was wreathed in fog, but the night air revived Jael somewhat.
All right, she muttered. Concentrating, she transformed herself back to Jael,
a human girl, in the nexus of a ghostly neural-sensory net. Haloing the net
was a shimmering ethereal spaceship.
Impressive, acknowledged the dragon. I just wanted to see you, though,
not your spaceship.
She made the spaceship disappear. She stood lonely and frightened and
cold before the dragon. My name is Jael, she said.
The dragon reared its head back and shrieked in dismay. Its cry
reverberated through the mountains. I did not ask your name! it wailed.
Why have you given me your name? It blew a great gout of fire into the
night and screeched and scratched at the rock in distress.
What's the matter? Jael cried, covering her ears.
Finally the dragon quieted, rumbling and fuming unhappily. Now I am
obligated to give you my own name, and then I shall no longer be able to lie
to you—or to duel!
Jael scowled. Never mind. I don't want to know your name.
The dragon settled down glumly. It is Windrush-Wingtouch-Highwing—
Terror-of-the-Last-Peak.
I don't want to know!
I suppose you may call me Highwing. I am the Sire of the four fastest—
You are a braggart, said Jael coldly. The dragon whuffled into silence. It
shifted position awkwardly; the crag was crowded with the two of them. I
only want to be on with my flight, Jael said. You aren't helping me much.

You didn't come here to duel with us? the dragon asked, in a wounded
tone. Jael wondered if she really had hurt his feelings. Highwing watched
her thoughtfully. You are upset about something, he observed. And not just
about me. Do you want to talk about it?
No.
I have given you my name. You can trust me.
You? After you lied and tried to kill me?
That was when we were dueling. Before you knew my name. It was
expected.
Not by me.
Uncomfortable silence followed. Highwing cleared his throat steamily.
Some of the clouds broke and stars appeared over the mountains. Jael stared
at them longingly.
Another voice broke the silence. What's going on?
Highwing peered around in confusion.
I'm flying, Mogurn, answered Jael.
Come out of the net at once, ordered Mogurn's bodiless, furious voice.
I can't. There are dragons. Jael glanced at Highwing. Please don't argue,
she thought. It's both of our lives.
I'm disappointed in you. You get yourself out of trouble, and then you
come and see me. Mogurn broke the link.
Highwing's dragon eyes glowed over his snout. I see, he said. You must
answer to someone on your spaceship. But you don't like it. Am I right? His
gaze bore into Jael. Little Jael, he said, perhaps you had better come with
me for a while. Perhaps I can help.
She glared at him, startled by the suggestion. Why? Never!
I am your servant now, Jael, because we have exchanged our names, and
you really must come with me. It is our duty to help each other if we can.
The dragon sounded utterly earnest.
Why should I trust you? she shouted, stamping.
I am all you have at the moment, answered the dragon mildly.
Irrationally, Jael felt her anger subsiding. Some part of her wanted to go
with this dragon—even though he'd tried to kill her. She squinted at him—
at his huge unblinking eyes, at his great knobbed and finely scaled head.
Certainly he had nothing to fear, and no need of tricking her. I suppose, she

said cautiously, you're going to promise not to hurt me. And I should believe
that.
No one can promise not to hurt, little one, said Highwing.
Jael was startled. The answer seemed honest. And at the moment, what
choice did she have? Not that I believe you, she said, but what did you have
in mind?
Climb onto my back. The dragon crouched low, and after a long
hesitation Jael climbed up and perched astraddle his back, just in front of
his wings. She held onto his neck. Hold tight, he said, and unlimbered his
wings and sprang into the night air.
Jael clung, dizzy with confused emotions, with relief and fear. The wind
whispered at her, and the movements of the dragon's powerful musculature
soothed her. Instinctively she stroked his silken-hard scales. I like to be
scratched behind the ears, the dragon remarked as he flew.
Abruptly she stopped. Too bad, she said coldly.
Highwing chuckled and banked so that she could see the landscape
below. They were flying very low. Mountain landscape rushed by, jutting
rock and dark ravines. He banked the other way, descending. She clung
breathlessly. A valley spread open in the night. Where are we going? she
shouted. The dragon belched a flame in answer.
They slowed and passed through a veil of mist. She felt a curious
shifting, or twisting, of her time sense. Stars seemed to sparkle inside the
veil, and she glimpsed dark stone walls sliding by. The veil shimmered and
vanished, and in clear night air they glided into a fairyland valley.
Highwing followed a trail of glittering dust strewn in mid-air, and below
them, soft lights swung in the boughs of trees. Gossamer strands
crisscrossed overhead, forming a continuing arch under which the dragon
flew, barely fluttering his wings. How do you like it? he asked proudly.
Jael stared about in puzzled fascination. To the left, a waterfall spilled
into a starlit pool, where several odd-looking creatures watered. It's pretty,
she said, but what are we doing here?
Highwing craned his neck to look back at her. Little one, he said. I wish I
could remember your name. What was it?
Jael, she said stiffly. Then she saw the twinkle in his eye. She flushed at
the teasing, feeling—what?—anger? Perhaps—but despite herself she felt a
trickle of warmth.

Little Jael, the dragon said.
Quit calling me "little"! Now that did make her mad.
Dear me, said the dragon. Don't you know? I call you that as a measure
of our friendship, little Jael.
We have no friendship.
You say that now, large Jael. But we have come for you to see otherwise.
Jael hiked herself up to look the dragon squarely in the eye. Hah! she
said. And then her gaze locked with the dragon's, and she seemed to fall
into the depths of those glowing eyes, down a twisting spiraling pathway to
the edge of another consciousness: a mind watching hers, almost as in the
dreamlink field. But the consciousness she touched here seemed far deeper
than any she'd encountered before, and she sensed that it was kinder, and
that it observed her with interest but without malice or displeasure at what it
saw. Catching reflected images of herself, she realized suddenly that the
other saw beneath her surface, deep within her thoughts. She shivered, and
her shiver resonated down the pathway and reflected back in a sympathetic
chord. Astonished, she pulled free of the link, of the dragon's gaze, and she
sat back blinking.
The dragon counted itself her friend and companion. He truly did.
But that was impossible.
What was she to do, then? She closed her eyes and thought. She
stretched her senses back through the rigger-net; she felt the ship, the flux-
pile energizing the net, holding her here in the reality of the Flux. Should
she pull clear now, face Mogurn and explain her folly, suffer his wrath in
hopes of forgiveness, in hopes of the pallisp, the dear pallisp? And then
return, to modify the image if she could? But . . . Mogurn was very angry.
He would never give her the pallisp now.
She could stay. Highwing had said he would bring her through, that he
would help her.
She opened her eyes and said, Well? The dragon's nostrils smoked
inquiringly. This doesn't mean anything—but shouldn't we be moving on?
The dragon turned to face forward again. As you say, diminutive one.
Jael glowered, but before she could speak, Highwing added, Look!
The scenery ahead was different, starker and yet more magical—faceted
angular rock faces, gleaming faintly, towering high, and here and there
among the faces dim alcoves and caves. Jael felt a strange premonition. In

those caves lurked dragon magic. She clung to Highwing in wondering
apprehension. As the dragon wheeled slowly, picking his way through a
maze of vaguely gleaming passageways, Jael again felt that curious twisting
of time, as though each turn moved her backward or forward through years,
or stretched seconds to infinity. Soon she felt quite disoriented.
Presently the dragon came to a landing before the entrance to a small
cave. Well, he said.
Well, what? Jael rose up and peered in. The cave interior was gloomy,
lighted by a single moonbeam piercing the ceiling. An enormous spiderweb
spanned the back of the cave, shimmering in the moonbeam. The web
seemed almost alive. There was a sparkling of light across its strands, and
then a vertical rippling of cold fire. Jael watched, puzzled. The web danced
with ghostly quicksilver, and suddenly stilled, and Jael found herself
looking through a living window.
At Mogurn.
It was Mogurn at the spaceport, not on the ship. The background slowly
fell into focus: the rigger dispatcher room in port. This was Mogurn the
businessman; Mogurn the merchant, the thief. Mogurn the trader in illegal
and immoral goods. He was talking with someone—a spaceport crew
steward. Hanging onto Highwing's neck, Jael strained forward to pick up
words from the window, but she could hear nothing. Both men smiled
meanly at something Mogurn said, and the steward turned and pointed. A
female rigger stood in profile, beyond them.
Jael trembled, recognizing herself half a year ago. She looked meek,
frightened, lonely. Mogurn leaned toward the steward, grinning, and
withdrew from his hip pouch—just far enough for the steward to see—the
probe of the pallisp. The steward nodded, winking. They touched hands in
farewell, and something twinkled between their fingers as they did so. Then
Mogurn strode toward the rigger, Jael, standing bewildered in the lobby.
And Jael, her stomach knotting, watched the younger Jael turn, startled at a
sudden sensation of warmth, of companionship. Watched herself meet
Mogurn, watched herself accept work—and watched herself surrender to
the pallisp.
Jael's stomach fought back as for the first time she really saw the
uncaring anticipation on Mogurn's face as he enslaved her with the pallisp.

And for the first time she admitted to the rush of hatred that shook her when
she thought of the man. Humiliation and anger rushed up in a torrent.
The dragon stirred as she wrestled with her emotions, trying to corral
them, and she heard him say, Shall I burn him for you, Jael?
Yes! she cried, blinking tears, not even knowing what she was saying.
Yes! Burn him!
Highwing lifted his head and breathed fire. His breath was a blowtorch, a
leaping flame that engulfed the cave. The ghostly Jael vanished, and the
ghostly Mogurn whirled in surprise—and screamed once before he died in
the incinerating fury of the dragon's fire. Jael gagged at the dying sound of
the scream, at the sight of the man dying in hellfire at her command. But
when it was over, and the smoke cleared from the gutted cave which had
held the image of the man she hated, she felt a sudden release, a bubbling
up of joy and freedom, a rushing of cleansed emotions. And almost
immediately, a backwash of weariness.
She scarcely noticed as the dragon carried her away from that place. Her
thoughts were blurred, confused. Time strained and slipped by.
Gradually she regained both her strength and her wits as the dragon flew
through the stark-walled and misty vale. You took that from my own mind,
didn't you? she asked softly, stroking his scales to regain the feel.
What? he answered idly. He banked to the right and turned into a bowl-
shaped dell and landed abruptly. Jael stared, frowning. The dell was a small,
wooded place, in fading twilight. As darkness filled in, hundreds of gnatlike
fireflies appeared, darting and corkscrewing through the glade like so many
fiery atoms. Hundreds more joined them, and more still, until a cloud of
whirling sparks filled a space beneath several of the largest trees. Jael was
about to speak, to say Stop—no more, when the whirling sparks coalesced
and from their midst emerged a man. Dap.
Jael's breath stopped. Dap looked as always, handsome and gentle, but—
and this astonished Jael, who'd witnessed this scene before, but had never
noticed—he was also frightened, anxious, putting forth a brave expression
which hardly disguised his terrible insecurity. The sunglow of the dreamlink
field came over him (and over an invisible Jael) and as the augmentor
worked its magic on him, his discomfort became yet more evident. Images
of Jael's memories danced about him like tiny sunbursts: her father
opaquing doors as he retired with his women and boys, some not much

older than Jael; her brother (before the groundcar accident that took his life,
as he ran from his insane mother) wincing with the pain he never allowed
out, though it tore him apart; her father ignoring, shutting out their pain,
teaching them how to make walls but never windows.
All this Dap caught, in the swirl of memories among the fantasies,
desperately lonely fantasies, rigger fantasies which Jael let free in the
dreamlink. "Is all this true?" he asked, frightened at the enormity of her
pain. And Jael remembered her answer well. "Only fantasies," she had lied,
even as she tried to sweep them away, to hide them. As Jael watched Dap
draw back from the unseen Jael here, she recalled the agony she'd felt, the
abandonment. But the expression on Dap's face was fear, shame for his own
needs and wants in the face of his helpless inadequacy. As she tried to
cover, so did he. As she was frightened, so was he.
As he turned now to flee, Jael heard Highwing's voice, softly: Shall I?
The dragon drew a deep breath.
No! she cried, startled. Don't hurt him—don't burn him! I didn't know—I
never realized! Dap had fled out of fear, out of hurt. Perhaps even
cowardice—but not hatred.
Highwing sighed, and the image and the cloud of sparks dissipated. Did
you remember it that way? the dragon asked, rumbling.
No, said Jael. No, I—and she fell mute, remembering the abandonment
she'd felt, thinking that Dap hated her, and remembering how she'd vowed
never to let anyone touch her that way again.
Well, then, Jael—look up.
Reluctantly she lifted her gaze. For a moment she couldn't see what
Highwing wanted her to look at, and then—in a sheltered aerie high above
the glade—she saw a man.
Who is that? she asked, though a suspicion grew in the pit of her
stomach.
Don't you know? Without waiting for an answer, the dragon sprang aloft
and carried her to a perch near the aerie, where she could look across and
see for herself. It was her father. He was a cold-eyed, stiff-limbed man,
exactly as she remembered him. He gazed outward, apparently expecting a
caller, but the angle of his stance suggested retreat, as though he refused to
leave the shelter of the aerie. His eyes stared, his mouth curled with

distaste, as when he'd wondered aloud why he'd saddled himself with two
former wives, a son, and a daughter.
Kill him, Jael said softly, anger and loathing rising out of her heart. Burn
him. The dragon did not immediately obey, and for a moment her anger
flew at Highwing. I hate him, I say—burn him! And then she knew why the
dragon hesitated. Not because he disapproved—but because her father was
already two years dead, at the hands of a jealous lover. What point to burn
him now? She cursed futilely, squinting at this man who was so hopelessly
cold, so desperately alone, who had turned two wives against him and
taught a son and a daughter how not to feel. All right, Highwing—never
mind. Maybe he suffered enough. I doubt it, but maybe he did. Now let's get
out of here.
The man vanished into the aerie as Highwing turned. He leaped, and
they were airborne. Little one—
Let's get out of this place, dragon! Jael answered darkly, her mood
blighted by anger. The dragon vented smoke from his nostrils in sympathy.
That angered her further, and she struck his hardened scales with her fists.
Take me out of this accursed valley and let me finish my journey in peace.
The dragon circled higher. He was silent for a time before speaking. As
you will, Jael. But when I take you out of these mountains, we will be near
the place where I must leave you—and you will be near your destination.
There I shall have to say good-bye to you.
Too many images burned brightly in Jael's mind for her to respond to the
dragon's sadness. As if she were concerned anyway. It was the damned
dragon who had brought her here, pushed her nose in those memories, made
them hurt—although, true, he had burned Mogurn to a crisp for her, in
image if not reality.
Jael clung silently to the dragon as he beat his wings to gain altitude, as
the lights of the valley fell away behind them. Images flashed brightly
through her mind: her brother desperately gathering his dignity, unable to
share his hurt even with his sister; Dap and the other riggers struggling with
their own loneliness and fear; a rigger named Mariel who once treated her
kindly; Mogurn in oblivion with the synaptic augmentor. She shook as
feelings replayed in her mind faster than she could react to them, as
memories of anger and pain and loneliness and frustration and hatred
spawned a cyclone in her soul. Memories of a father who had loved no one,

least of all himself. She scarcely saw the mountain peaks passing, dark and
grim in the night, or clouds which muffled them and opened again, or the
stars which gleamed like diamonds and then stretched peculiarly into
lines . . . in response to the sensation of speed . . . in response to her fatigue
in the rigger net.
In the faint roar of wind, she finally raised herself on Highwing's neck,
understanding that she was exhausted, that she had been flying in the net for
too many hours. Where are we? she asked, her voice straining.
On the way to where you wanted to go, said the dragon.
If I went away—to sleep—could you stay with my ship until return? The
net sparkled, off color. She didn't even know why she'd asked that, but she
felt a jab of pain, of loneliness. She didn't quite want to leave him.
I will be here, answered the dragon.
Sighing, Jael gathered her senses, materialized an image of the ship
which was bound to her through the net, just a ghostly nose of the ship
extending out of nothingness into the Flux, and she set the stabilizers
astraddle Highwing. I'll see you in a while, then, she offered.
A plume of smoke. Yes.
Jael withdrew. Her senses darkened—and rekindled back in her own
body. She climbed out of the rigger-cell and stood, weary, in the gloom of
the bridge. She stretched once. Then she stole into the galley and ate
ravenously, expecting an angry Mogurn to burst in at any moment. When
she finished, and Mogurn had not appeared, she crept to his door and
signaled. No answer. She paled the door and peered in. Mogurn was under
the synaptic augmentor, his eyes rolled up into his head, a grimace
stretching his mouth. His chest rose and fell slowly; otherwise he lay still.
He hadn't been able to wait for Jael to help him.
Jael frowned, thinking reflexively of the pallisp, and then realizing that
she didn't really need it just now. She could live without it while she slept.
Turning, she went to her own cabin and fell almost instantly into deep
sleep.
* * *
She blinked; her dreams fled. Mogurn's voice startled her a second time,
growling, "Are you being paid to sleep?" The anger in his voice was sharp,
too sharp. She turned to look at him, standing just inside her door, and she

pictured him cremated by dragon fire. "Make yourself ready and come see
me in the galley,"' he ordered. Then he vanished.
Jael roused herself worriedly. Mogurn sounded unwell, perhaps unstable.
Could that be a result of a synaptic overdose? She'd have to be careful—
best to get back into the net quickly. And—strangely!—she was terribly
anxious about Highwing. A queer ache settled in her chest when she
thought of the dragon; it reminded her of the longing she felt for the pallisp.
Or used to feel. At the moment, she didn't want the pallisp; she wanted to be
with Highwing.
Head spinning, she went to the galley. Mogurn was eating, and under his
baleful eye she dialed something for herself. As she began to eat, he spoke
sharply. "Twice you've disobeyed. And you entered the net without
permission, and put us in trouble with dragons. Are we clear of dragons
now?" His voice sounded strained.
Jael swallowed. Highwing, burn him! she thought, wishing that the
dragon could be here to obey. She chose her words cautiously. "We could
still have trouble." Mogurn's eyes flashed. "But we are nearing the final
current to Lexis. I should return to the net at once."
The shipowner squinted, his facial muscles tense. "You don't like me
much, do you?" he said tightly. "You never did. But you like your pallisp
well enough, don't you? And there is no man who can wield the pallisp for
you as I do."
Jael held her gaze rigid, meeting his. I do not need a pallisp, she
thought . . . not any longer. Nevertheless, she trembled under Mogurn's
gaze. "There will be no more mistakes, Jael. No disobedience. No pallisp—
until you have removed this ship from danger." Mogurn smiled queerly,
triumphantly, and crossed his arms.
What a pathetic man, Jael thought—however cruel. What weapon did he
hold over her now? She still feared him physically, yes, but—"I do not need
your pallisp," she said aloud. Her throat constricted. "And now I must—"
"You stay until I command you to leave!" shouted Mogurn furiously.
An alarm on the bridge quailed, signaling changes in the Flux. Mogurn
started, jerked his head around. "Go!" he said bitterly.
Jael hurried. If Highwing had left her . . .
When her senses sparked outward into the net, she found herself astride
the dragon, flying in clear winds over low mountains. She trembled with

relief. Two suns, pink and orange, were setting before her. The sky
overhead was a sea of liquid crystal, and she knew at once that she was
bound upward for that sea. Greetings, small one, sighed the dragon,
snorting fire.
Jael hugged his neck, wanting to cry. Highwing, she said softly, did you
call me?
The dragon pumped his wings slowly. I wanted you to return, he said. I
don't know if I called you or not.
I knew it was time to come. Are we—are we almost at the end?
Of my range, yes, Jael. Dragons do not go beyond these foothills. I am
zigzagging to go more slowly, but we are almost at the end. Do you wish me
to fly straight?
No—please no. Oh, Highwing, can't you come further with me? Or can't
we go back? Even as she spoke, Jael knew that it was impossible. She had a
ship to bring in, and even Mogurn was her responsibility. The currents of
the Flux were inexorable; dragons could fly against them, perhaps, but Jael
and her ship could not.
Sometimes friends must part, said the dragon softly.
And I made you leave, said Jael, half to herself, when all along you were
trying to help me. Just as you promised. She was ashamed; tears wet her
cheeks. What will I do, Highwing? What will I do now?
You will find others, said the dragon, and I will still be here, thinking of
you.
Jael trembled and wept, and after a long time her tears dried. How could
she dispel the terrible loneliness she felt already closing in upon her? The
pallisp came to mind, and she turned it away. The price for that was too
high, the comfort too short. No, Highwing's advice was best. However
difficult, it was better than settling for the likes of Mogurn and the pallisp.
Better than shelled-in emptiness.
Things will be different. Things will be better, she said, as though to the
wind.
Highwing heard her and answered. It will be different for me, too, little
Jael. Never again will I duel a rigger without thinking of you. You, who
have my name—and I yours.
They flew in silence for a few moments. The lowest of the low
mountains came into sight. Highwing, Jael said, If I fly this way again, will I

see you?
The dragon breathed fire. I shall be looking for you, little Jael, and so
will other dragons. Cry, "Friend of Highwing!" and I will hear you, though
all the mountains lie between us.
Jael trembled with emotion. Then let us fly high, now, and part in the
sun, she said, urging him toward the sky.
The dragon complied at once, soaring high toward the inverted lake of
sunset crystal above their heads. Jael leaned with him into the wind, feeling
it sting her cheeks and toss her hair, feeling the glowing radiance of the
celestial ocean overhead filling her eyes and her soul. The two suns were
setting now, but they threw their radiance in fuller color than ever into the
sky. Channels opened in the clouds, and light poured through in great rays,
washing over the dragon and Jael, and they flew up one of the beams, into
the crystal sea, where colors shifted brightly and the currents of the Flux
moved in streams and gossamer strands. And here, she knew, Highwing
would leave her, for this was not a dragon's realm.
Highwing shivered, and she thought she heard echoes of weeping, and
he blew a great cloud of smoke and sparks and a single brilliant, billowing
flame. Jael caressed his neck one last time, and then extended her hands
into space and turned them into great webs touching the streamers of light.
Farewell, Highwing, she cried softly.
Farewell, Jael, said the dragon, and he wheeled and suddenly Jael was
no longer astride him but in flight on her own, rigger once more. Highwing
banked and circled around her, his eyes flashing, and he issued a long, thin
stream of smoke in final farewell, and then he banked sharply and
plummeted.
Jael looked after him, holding her tears, as he dwindled toward his own
world. Friend of Highwing! she cried after him, and her voice reverberated
gently down the sunbeams and perhaps she was only imagining but she
thought she heard his laugh echoing in the distance below. And then she set
her sights ahead and knew that the tears would flow and dry, for a while,
and she looked in the shifting sky for the currents that would carry her to
her destination star system, to the end of this voyage, to normal space. And
she thought of how she would tell Mogurn that she was leaving his employ,
and his pallisp, and she laughed and cried and turned her thoughts back to
the sky.

Until I return, Highwing, she thought, and she saw the streamer she
wanted and caught it in her webbed hand, and with her the ship rose high
and fast into the current.
*****
[Return to Table of Contents]
*****
Thank you for reading Going Alien.
If you'd like to read more of my short stories,
may I suggest Reality and Other Fictions?
OceanofPDF.com

Books by Jeffrey A. Carver
Seas of Ernathe
Star Rigger's Way
Panglor
The Infinity Link
The Rapture Effect
Roger Zelazny's Alien Speedway: Clypsis
From a Changeling Star
Down the Stream of Stars
Dragons in the Stars
Dragon Rigger
Eternity's End
Battlestar Galactica: the Miniseries
The Chaos Chronicles
Neptune Crossing
Strange Attractors
The Infinite Sea
Sunborn
The Reefs of Time*
Short Stories
Reality and Other Fictions
Going Alien
Boxed Sets
The Chaos Chronicles: Books 1–3
Dragon Space: A Star Rigger Omnibus
*work in progress
*****

OceanofPDF.com

About the Author
Jeffrey A. Carver was a Nebula Award finalist for his novel Eternity's
End. He also wrote Battlestar Galactica, a novelization of the critically
acclaimed television miniseries. His novels combine thought-provoking
characters with engaging storytelling, and range from the adventures of the
Star Rigger universe (Star Rigger's Way, Dragons in the Stars, and others)
to the ongoing, character-driven hard SF of The Chaos Chronicles—which
begins with Neptune Crossing and continues with Strange Attractors, The
Infinite Sea, and Sunborn.
A native of Huron, Ohio, Carver lives with his family in the Boston area.
He has taught writing in a variety of settings, from educational television to
conferences for young writers to MIT, as well as his ongoing Ultimate
Science Fiction Workshop with Craig Shaw Gardner. He has created a free
web site for aspiring authors of all ages at www.writesf.com. Learn more
about the author and his work at www.starrigger.net.
* * *
For a complete guide to Jeffrey A. Carver's ebooks, visit:
www.starrigger.net/ebooks.htm
OceanofPDF.com

About Book View Café
Book View Café is a professional authors' cooperative offering DRM-free
ebooks in multiple formats to readers around the world. With authors in a
variety of genres including mystery, romance, fantasy, and science fiction,
Book View Café has something for everyone.
Book View Café is good for readers because you can enjoy high-quality
DRM-free ebooks from your favorite authors at a reasonable price.
Book View Café is good for writers because 95% of the profits goes
directly to the book's author.
Book View Café authors include New York Times bestsellers and winners of
the Nebula, Hugo, and Philip K. Dick Awards, as well as other notable
authors.
http://www.bookviewcafe.com
OceanofPDF.com