c149
    
  


  


Chapter 7

Tobias


“Here are the servants’ chambers. Our staff is available throughout the day, but on the rare chance you’re unable to find assistance, you may seek them here.”


He walked paces ahead, hands locked behind his back. Keene Joseon was the wealthiest noble in Thessen, proprietor of the Joseon stables, and their host. Servants could’ve guided the tour, but he had taken their stead for Leila’s benefit, as The Savior of Thessen deserved nothing less. But since Tobias, his family, and Raphael had arrived at Her side, they were allowed his company as well. Begrudgingly, perhaps. It was hard to tell, as Keene’s face had been a blank canvas, devoid of feeling, since their arrival.


“This is where we dine.” Keene stopped in front of another room as grandiose as the others. “Tonight’s meal is in preparation. The staff has been made aware of your presence and will alert you once dinner is served.”


His shoulders were rigid, each step slow and controlled. He was roughly the same height as Tobias and not any broader, but his carriage was imposing, the sharpness of his jaw like a small blade to the gut. His clothing spoke of care and attention, from the crispness of his bone white tunic and matching pants to the golden stitching and delicate placement of the orange drape wrapping his chest. He looked so much like his son—the same copper skin, though perhaps a shade deeper, and the same jet-black hair, straight and cropped short. Even in his hooded brown eyes, Tobias could’ve sworn the man looking back at him wasn’t Keene at all.


It was Flynn.


“This is my son’s chamber,” Keene said. “He spends his time here when he’s not tending to business matters. If he’s not at the stables, you will find him studying scrolls on finance and trade. The stables will belong to him one day, and it’s imperative he take the responsibility seriously.”


Flynn. He was there again in the roundness of Keene’s cheekbones, the thickness of his brows. Tobias’s hands were balled into fists at his side, and he looked away from the noble to the chamber instead. The space around him boasted slate walls, a wooden desk with intricately carved filigree, and a framed painting of a black thoroughbred bolting through the desert. The space was lavish, particularly the long, horizontal mirror hanging against the wall in perfect alignment with the bed.


“This way,” Keene said.


He continued down the corridor while Tobias eyed the garish mirror. He and Leila shared a knowing glance before following in the man’s footsteps.


“This will be Your chamber, Your Holiness.” Keene opened the double doors wide. “We have many guest quarters, but this one is our finest. Though I’m sure it’s quite modest compared to what You’re accustomed to, I hope You find the space agreeable.”


The chamber was similar to Flynn’s in breadth yet understated, with steel blue walls, a wooden wardrobe, and a desk and chair with vines carved into the legs and back. A sofa in indigo linen sat beside an ebony-paned window with white curtains, the sheer fabric grazing the tiled floor. No, nothing about the chamber was modest.


Especially the bed.


Heat swirled in Tobias’s face. A bed with white sheets, blue throws, and a mountain of plush pillows. He stole a glance at Leila, who quickly looked away, a hint of a smile playing at Her lips. “It’s lovely.” She nodded at Keene. “Your hospitality is greatly appreciated.”


“Like all within this realm, I live to serve The One True Savior,” he said.


Tobias bit back a grin. His mother was right behind him, but that thought was easy to dismiss. A big, inviting bed. Somewhere for them to lay their heads. Somewhere to rest.


Somewhere to not rest at all.


Keene turned on his heel. “Now, if you’ll follow me, I’ll escort you to Mr. Kaya’s chamber.”


Tobias started. “My chamber?”


“Yes,” Keene said. “It’s this way.”


Tobias glanced between the bed, then Leila, then the bed once more. Perhaps he’d been presumptuous, but Leila seemed just as bewildered—more so, even, Her lips parted and eyes wide. Flushing, She composed Herself. “Apologies, I believe there’s been some confusion. Tobias is My suitor.”


“My family carries their lineage from Qirina, a proud realm of the Outlands,” Keene said. “While our devotion belongs to Thessen, our homeland’s traditions remain dear to us.” He stared straight at Leila as if She were the only person in the corridor, the others around Her mere shadows. “Qirinian culture dictates it would be inappropriate for a man and woman to share a chamber if they haven’t yet been bonded by marriage. It’s simply a matter of decency. I’m sure you understand.”


She didn’t, and it was written across Her face. “Of course,” She said.


Their tour persisted, though Tobias was deflated. His room was just as lovely as Leila’s. Keene claimed it smaller, but nothing about the villa was small, and he still couldn’t fathom why he had his own room in the first place. Flynn’s bedroom mirror flashed through Tobias’s thoughts, and he scowled. Decency my ass.


The remainder of the tour lost his already strained interest. The walls were the color of sand with none of the dullness, the floors made of buffed limestone tiles that reflected their visages. They walked by countless glass windows polished to a shine, and if they weren’t passing windows, they were passing sculpted horses atop pedestals, swords mounted on the walls, or the occasional painting from a master of the craft. Petros’s work hung amid the others, and Tobias wasn’t sure if he was proud or offended to see it in the Joseon home. The corridors wound in confusing ways and at ridiculous lengths, boasting far more rooms than any family could ever need, especially a widower and his only son. Flynn swept Tobias’s mind, and he shook him away. It was, without a doubt, the largest home he’d ever stepped foot in, save for the palace, though he hadn’t considered that much of a home at all.


“The bathhouse is prepared.” Keene clapped twice, and a flurry of men and women scuttled into a line behind him, their heads bowed. “Servants will escort you, and after you’ve bathed, we’ll break bread in the dining room.”


“Thank you for your generosity. We’re very grateful.” Leila stood tall, though Her smile was stiff. “And I look forward to discussing our partnership. Your aid in freeing Thessen from bondage will go down in the archives.”


“I am motivated for no other reason than to serve Your reign. The Savior’s line has brought prosperity to the realm, and maintaining Your rule is for the betterment of the people.” For the first time, his eyes panned to Tobias. “The servants are waiting.”


Tobias looked to Leila and his family before parting, following a man and woman down a strange corridor. The bathhouse was one large room sectioned into many by stone walls, and though his loved ones were likely on the other side, the separation left him guarded. The female servant disrobed him while the male servant prepped his bath, steam billowing from the water as rivers of soap and oil floated along its surface. Tobias entered the pool somewhat willingly, eager to be clean but less-than-thrilled to have strangers prodding at his fleshy bits. Both servants worked in silence, the woman massaging his scalp while the man scrubbed his feet, stripping away the filth while Tobias sat rigid and unyielding.


Naked and wet, Tobias waited in uncomfortable stillness as the servants handed him a pile of linen and leather—a sleeveless cream tunic with a boat neck, taupe harem pants that hugged his hips, and his sandals washed and buffed. He dressed quickly, feeling renewed in the clothing, yet foreign, as if some innate part of him had been discarded with the bathwater.


“Mr. Kaya.”


He spun toward the voice, reaching for the blade that wasn’t on his thigh where it belonged. A servant stood in the entryway.


“Dinner is served,” she said.


He followed her through the villa, scanning the walls, examining doorways. His weapons were gone. He’d fix that later, or maybe that was their intention, to make him comfortable and attack when he wasn’t looking. That wouldn’t work. He was far from comfortable, and he was always looking.


He’d been to the dining room before but hadn’t truly seen it. The black walls were peppered with blazing sconces, a black tiled floor glittered against the candlelight, and a charcoal table stretched from wall to wall, perhaps designed to keep dueling parties at a great distance. His mother and sister waited across from one another, each in flaxen dresses with cowl necks like those of the servant staff. Raphael sat at Tobias’s mother’s side wearing a tunic identical to his own while Leila sat at the head wearing a powder blue dress with reed-thin straps, Her hair tied into a loose braid over Her shoulder.


“Join us.” Keene sat at Leila’s side, gesturing toward an empty place setting.


Across from Flynn.


Tobias froze, a statue in the middle of the dining hall. He forced his legs to move, his feet like blocks of lead scraping the floor, and when he took his seat, his eyes went straight to Flynn. The noble was dressed in an emerald tunic and black drape, his posture straight and square. Shiny black hair combed to the side, copper skin that shone from oils and care, lips drawn into a straight line—yes, he was very much Keene’s son.


Including the way he glared at Tobias, his gaze piercing to the bone.


“Sir?”


A servant waited at Tobias’s side. He gestured toward the pitcher in his hands. “Wine?”


Tobias nodded. “Thank you.”


The servant filled his chalice while Leila and Keene shared pleasantries, civil in ways Tobias couldn’t fake. All he could do was take in Flynn’s razor-edged gaze. A drum beat in Tobias’s chest, and fire climbed up and down his limbs. His dinner knife rested mere inches away, and God, was he tempted to launch it across the table and bury it in the man’s gullet. An onslaught threatened to burst from his mouth, but he gritted his teeth, forcing his hatred inward.


“Now that we’re seated, I think it’s an appropriate time for my son to offer his sincere apologies,” Keene said.


Tobias started. Keene too was staring at Flynn—no, glaring. A fraction of the tension eased from Tobias’s shoulders while Flynn’s eyes panned to the tabletop, his gravitas fading.


“My deepest apologies”—Flynn swallowed hard—“Your Holiness.”


Your Holiness? Heat rose up Tobias’s throat, the fire reignited, shameful and selfish.


“Pardon?” Leila glanced at Tobias, then at Keene. “What is the purpose of this?”


“For his disgraceful performance in Your tournament,” Keene said. “Please know this offense will not be taken lightly. He has brought considerable humiliation to the Joseon name.”


“I’m . . .” Leila’s mouth opened and closed, Her eyes wide with disbelief. “I’m not sure I understand. Flynn was one of the final three competitors—made it to the Culmination, won the tournament in fact, technically speaking.”


“Without a single kill to his name and a meager number of laurelites.” Keene’s lips curled into a frown. “Not to mention his blatant ignorance disregarding Her Holiness while wasting his affections on an impostor.”


“With all due respect, I didn’t know She was The Savior myself,” Tobias said without thinking. “None of us did.”


“Some of us did,” Raphael muttered.


“The Joseon name carries distinction. My son sullied it with his poor choices.” Keene flicked a dismissive wrist at Flynn. “Go on. Tell Her.”


Flynn set his jaw. “As I’ve said, my deepest apologies, Your Holiness.”


Leila’s expression hadn’t lifted. Her eyes flitted back and forth, looking for an answer, perhaps an escape. She cleared Her throat. “Unnecessary. Your performance in the Sovereign’s Tournament was commendable.”


Tobias snatched up his chalice, downing it in three gulps. This is a good thing. Leila deserves this. But what of the suffering Flynn brought upon Tobias? Had the man not threatened him—not attempted to end his life? Still, the noble stared at the table, not looking Tobias’s way nor uttering another word, and Tobias was once again reminded of his knife, imagining the damage it could do.


Keene clapped his hands twice and Tobias flinched, nearly spilling his drink as the servants rushed to work, delivering overflowing plates of food. He tore into his rack of lamb, hoping to satiate his hunger, but the meat had lost its flavor, and his belly had become a bottomless pit. He inhaled another chalice of wine, along with flatbread and olive oil, cheese, marrows, and wine again for good measure. By the time the figs and nuts arrived, Tobias had given up washing the taste from his mouth. Some feelings were meant to linger, and they were usually the worst kind.


“I fear we’re burdening you a great deal, requesting your service securing an army.” Leila scooped the seeds from Her pomegranate, eating with a grace Tobias couldn’t duplicate. “But, as you know, you breed the finest warhorses in all the realm, and your military network is impressive. The palace has trusted your stables for some time, and certainly I could seek no one else.”


“A discussion for tomorrow,” Keene said with finality. “Your journey has left You tired and weakened Your mind. Enjoy Your dinner and we can make arrangements for Your army in the morn.”


Leila’s smile waned. “Of course.”


Servants delivered coffee and even more wine, and apparently that was Flynn’s cue to leave. He abandoned the room without so much as a nod, and though Tobias was glad for it, his insides remained tied up like knotted yarn. Keene sat with Leila, making idle chatter about whatever it was nobles discussed. She was poised and dignified, a true diplomat, but there was something false about Her carriage, an air of self-restraint so very unlike Her. Grabbing a full chalice, Tobias strode across the dining hall, making his way to nowhere at all while waiting for the fire in his chest to die.


Something small and blunt plunked the back of his head, then again. He turned in time for an olive to bounce off the space between his eyebrows and drop to the floor. Naomi sat in an armchair, a chalice of wine in one hand and a palmful of olives in the other. He ambled to her side. “You summoned me?”


Beaming, she gestured wildly at her figure. “Behold.”


“Yes?”


“Are you not going to say anything?”


“About what?”


She gasped. “Excuse you, I look delicious!”


Tobias rolled his eyes, and Naomi swatted his arm in response. Delicious wasn’t a word he’d have chosen, but she did look clean, fed, and healthy, and for that he was grateful. Her hair hung in loose shiny waves, free from her usual braids, and her full cheeks carried a hint of color.


“Smell my hair.” She ruffled her locks. “Like peaches. And I swear this is the softest dress I’ve ever worn.”


Tobias chuckled. “I take it you’re coming around to this plan?”


“Working with the man who nearly murdered you?” Naomi scoffed. “Not particularly. And his father—bit of a bastard, don’t you think?”


The man who nearly murdered you. Tobias was there again—in the arena, Flynn’s sword pointed at his throat, wobbling enough to nick his flesh. “At least you can enjoy their way of life for the time being,” he said.


He slugged his sister’s shoulder before walking away, feigning whatever casualness he could muster. Parking himself in front of a window, he pretended to admire the night sky while his mind spun with unspoken demands.


Get me out of here.


Arms wrapped around his waist. “Visit Me tonight.”


Leila. Her touch bled warmth, thawing the icy grasp of his thoughts. “I can’t.” Tobias’s nostrils flared. “You heard the man, it’s indecent. His son can fuck the entire realm, but we can’t even share a chamber.”


“No one needs to know.”


Her hand meandered up the front of his shirt, blazing. He glanced down at his chest, though he didn’t need to. Her palm was planted to his flesh, burning and bright.


She was blessing him.


“See yourself there, and it will be done,” She whispered.


Tobias didn’t fight his grin. “You’re bad.”


“I’ll be waiting.”


She glided from the dining room, holding his gaze over Her shoulder before disappearing. Flynn didn’t exist any longer, and any stiffness Tobias had felt previously had retreated to places better suited for it. Wrangling composure, he bid farewell to no one in particular and hurried to his chamber, locking the door behind him.


Leila’s chamber. The room burst into rays of light, and his world shifted. Steel blue walls appeared on either side of him, surrounding a large, welcoming bed with Leila lying in its center, Her dress splayed around Her and a mischievous glint in Her gaze.


“Don’t just stand there. Come here,” She said.


Tobias sprang to life, crawling over the sheets—like clouds, just as he had imagined. He looped an arm around Her waist and kissed Her. “You’re a vision.”


“Because I’m lying in a bed?”


“Because You’re the most beautiful woman alive, and You happen to be lying in a bed.” He propped himself onto his elbow. “And not to flatter myself, but I do believe today was a success. You’ll have Your army in no time, darling.”


She groaned. “We’ll see about that. He wouldn’t even begin the plans today. Did you hear him? ‘Your journey has weakened Your mind.’ What does he know of My mind?”


“He’s a poor judge of character, that’s for certain.”


She frowned. “You’re not upset I praised Flynn, are you?”


“Do I look upset?”


“I felt obligated,” She said. “They’re funding our army.”


“Plus Flynn’s performance was so exceptional.”


“Tobias—”


“I’m joking.”


Leila toyed with the neckline of his tunic. “There’s a mirror next to his bed. You know what it’s for, yes?”


Tobias rolled his eyes. “Everyone knows what it’s for.”


“He is shameless!”


“Back at the palace, he boasted of having bedded fifty women.”


“Fifty? Do you think it’s true?”


Tobias scoffed. “Of course not. Men lie about that sort of thing all the time. Flynn’s had his share of women, I’m sure, but fifty? Please.”


“What about you?” Leila raised an eyebrow. “Do you tell tall tales? Boast of your mighty cock?”


“I don’t care to impress anyone. Let them think what they want.” He rested his head against a pillow—soft, cool, and far too welcoming. “How are You feeling?” He twirled Her hair around his fingers. “About all this, I mean.”


Sighing, she flopped onto the pillows beside him. “Conflicted. On the one hand, Keene is helping us a great deal and is vital to our cause. On the other, he’s utterly despicable, and I absolutely hate him.” Tobias laughed, and She shot him a scowl. “I’m serious! I would never choose to associate with him otherwise. You know I don’t like Flynn, but now that I’ve met his father . . . I don’t know. I almost pity him. With such an overbearing man to raise him, it’s no wonder he’s so . . . so Flynn.”


“I’d have to agree.”


“With what?”


“All of it.”


She exhaled. “Well, here we are, forced to rely on them both. I’m happy for the assistance, but it makes me uncomfortable. I’m certain I’m compromising my integrity in this situation, but I’m not sure how. Is it because I’m accepting assistance from a man I condemn, or because I’m condemning a man who’s offered his assistance?”


“We’re doing what we must for Your realm.” He tucked Her hair behind Her ear. “Sometimes, in order to do good things, we have to make compromises.”


“I’m not sure how I’m going to sleep tonight.”


“Don’t sleep.” Grinning, he pulled Her close. “Don’t sleep at all.”


She met his smile with Her own, nipping at his bottom lip and relaxing into his kiss. Peace. Leila’s touch was all he’d needed, a salve for the tension, wrenching him from the precipice he’d been teetering on all day. Leila tasted like wine and smelled of lavender, and he soaked Her up like the earth receiving rain, easing with Her touch.


Their lips parted, and She smirked.


“What?” he said.


“Take off your shirt.”


“Are You giving me orders now?” Chuckling, he tossed his tunic to the floor. “Is this You being Savior-like?”


“Do you want Me to stop?”


“Not really. I think I like where this is headed.”


She slid Her fingertips up his chest, around the back of his neck and through his hair, and the path they drew burned straight to his veins. Goose bumps rippled across his flesh, and his cock throbbed against Her leg, want and need pulsing through him like notes ringing from harp strings. He deepened their kiss, luxuriating in the sound of Her shallow breathing.


“Tobias . . .”


The passion in Her kiss disappeared, and Her posture stiffened.


“Is something wrong, darling?” Tobias asked.


Cursing, She shook Herself. “Apologies. God, I’m so nervous.”


That much was clear. Her wide eyes revealed Her anxieties, as did Her tight grip on his biceps. He wove his fingers through Her hair, keeping his movements soft and gentle. “I’ve told You before, nothing needs to happen. Whenever You’re ready.”


“It’s not that I don’t want to. I do. It’s just . . .” Her gaze raked the ceiling. “Faun always says she jumped right in without much thought to it, and it ended up being rather awkward and painful. She says it’s better to play a bit. Get nice and comfortable over time. And I was just thinking . . . Well, there can’t be any harm to that, right? Easing in, I suppose. Am I making sense?”


“Completely.”


“There are other things we could do instead, is what I’m trying to say.”


His fingers danced across Her collarbone. “Perhaps we can . . . explore?”


Back and forth he swept, waiting patiently as Leila’s gaze slowly made its way back to his. She let out a long, slow breath. “Yes, all right.” She nodded fervently. “One step at a time.”


With a soft smile, he kissed Her temple, then Her forehead, and She loosened beneath his touch. Victory swelled within him. His body still ached for Her, but they had a lifetime to indulge their desires, and he was content just to have Leila comfortable in his arms. He nipped at Her ear, and She giggled in response, fueling his pride.


“Go on, then.” Leila’s mischievous smirk returned, Her apprehension melting away. “Explore.”


The invitation only heightened Tobias’s arousal. He leaned in, kissing Her bottom lip gently as if it might shatter. Leila offered no resistance, so he came in stronger, and She followed in kind, daring him to continue. His fingertips glided across Her décolletage, slinking lower until they grazed Her cleavage. She looked him in the eyes, a wordless command, and he tugged at the neckline of Her dress, pulling Her straps down Her arms and revealing Her breasts.


She craned Her neck, pressing Her mouth to his and teasing his tongue. Between the wine on Her lips and the heat of Her body, he slipped into himself, drowning in drunken lust. As he cupped Her breast, She wrapped a leg around him, and his heartbeat picked up speed when She pressed Her pelvis to his. His thumb circled Her hard nipple, eliciting the most delicate moan from Her throat. Completely unfair. Why were aroused women so effortlessly irresistible, while men were like pigs grunting in the mud? His cock flexed defiantly, and he kissed Her hard, gripping Her thigh. Control yourself. Setting his jaw, he willed himself to behave.


Leila plunged Her hand down his pants and grabbed his cock.


Tobias started. “Leila⁠—”


“What?” Her eyes shot wide, consumed with confusion. “Is this not all right?”


“No, no⁠—”


“No, it’s not all right?”


“No—I mean yes, it’s all right, it’s just . . .” Her hand worked its way up and down, and Tobias closed his eyes. “Oh my God.”


“It’s just what?”


Hadn’t She said one step at a time? Tobias fumbled to find his voice. “I thought we were exploring.”


“We are exploring,” She said matter-of-factly. “Right now, I’m exploring your cock. Am I doing this right?”


Long, rhythmic strokes, pleasure following in their wake. His mind liquified, turning to puddles of nonsense. “God, yes.”


“You don’t want Me to stop?”


“Don’t stop.” The words spilled freely, ungoverned by his will, as if someone else entirely had spoken them. He was under Her spell, hypnotized by Her touch.


Leila grinned, clearly enjoying his trance. “Good.”


Pushing him against the sheets, She yanked down his pants and straddled his thighs, hunger alive in Her gaze. “I’ve waited for this.”


“You’ve waited to play with my cock?”


Her face dropped. “Is that strange?”


“No, I think it’s the best news I’ve heard all year. Or maybe my whole life.”


“You’re certain I’m doing this right? Up and down, like this?”


Leila stared down at him, Her tits out, dress hoisted around Her waist, and his rock-hard cock in Her hand. He tilted his head back, reveling in Her hedonistic touch. “Yes. Just like that.”


She worked slowly at first, more so admiring his erection than servicing it. He didn’t mind, as She was still half-naked, and he rather enjoyed the thought of Her appreciating his cock. Each sensation battled for his attention, swirling through him before settling in his belly. Her legs were wrapped tight around him, Her fingers fixed along his shaft, and God, Her cunt was near enough to his balls that he could feel its heat. As She quickened Her rhythm, he bit down on his lip.


“Fuck,” he groaned.


Leila froze. “Am I hurting you?”


“No, that was a good ‘fuck.’”


“Oh.” She smiled, pleased with Herself. “All right.”


She continued, a bit firmer, faster, and more determined. Pleasure built within him like a rolling wave, and he gripped desperately at Her thighs. His breathing matched Hers, shallow and labored, and his eyes traced Her figure—the dark hair cascading over Her shoulder, the curve of Her neck, and Her breasts bouncing with each stroke.


“Oh my God, Your fucking tits . . .” Don’t say that, you idiot, but She giggled, so apparently She didn’t mind. Another groan tore from his throat. “Fuck.”


“I love the way you say fuck.”


The look in Her eyes was fierce, a warrior aiming to conquer. He fought for control, but the throbbing of his cock was gaining momentum, his thoughts singular and filthy. Leila had total command in that moment, could make or break him as She pleased, and the thrill in Her gaze sent spasms rocking his insides. He was so close. Just the slightest push, and he’d be tumbling over the edge.


Leila grabbed his shaft with both hands, one on top of the other, and marveled as she worked. “Your cock is so big.”


There it was—the perfect words coupled with the magic touch, and he was done, was spilling over. The explosion rattled him, a chaotic symphony of power and ecstasy. Some garbled nonsense poured from his lips, and his climax overtook him, aching with such intensity that his vision blared white.


Tobias sucked in short breaths. The room around him cleared and his heartrate slowed, a euphoric haze washing over him. He sank into the bed, blinking past his dizziness. Leila still straddled him, hands covered in his seed, a level of self-satisfaction he’d never seen before alive in Her amber eyes. She smiled.


“That was fantastic.”



OceanofPDF.com

c19X
    
  


  


Chapter 8

Leila


Ledgers streaked with black ink and spotted with wax seals covered the table. Leila and Her allies, both new and old, had been circling the sea of parchment for hours, taking their meals as they scanned scrolls, weighing the legitimacy of tactical maneuvers while servants with bowed heads filed in and out of the study. Leila was more than familiar with a room full of men barking politics and strategy, but never had it been so wrapped up in Her fate, nor had She ever got much of a say in edgewise. For the first time, She stood at the head of the table, and the men surrounding Her were at Her whim—according to Keene.


“You have full access to our resources. As many steeds as we can provide, consider them Yours.” Keene pushed aside parchment, muttering orders to a nearby servant. “I’ll send word to my contact in Navé. He’s retired but has many ties to military bases in Thessen and west of Kovahr.”


“Can he provide manpower?” Leila asked.


“If he can’t, we’ll approach the Ethyuans. There are several mercenary camps that owe us a favor. A last resort, of course.”


Tobias and Raphael waited on the other side of the table, arms crossed and brows furrowed while Flynn stood opposite them, hands flat on the parchment as he scoured the ink. How strange it was to have such young men at Her side rather than aging senators—a welcome change, though the room was muggy with discomfort all the same.


“You’ll be paid in full for your services.” The minimal coin in their keep swept Leila’s thoughts. “There will be installments, but we can provide an initial investment as a show of good faith.”


“My duty is to serve The Savior. The prosperity of Your line is all the payment I need.”


“You will be held in the highest regard in the palace for many years to come.”


Keene nodded, his expression perpetually unreadable. “I’ll have a herald sent out tonight.” He beckoned a nearby servant, who jumped to his side, organizing the tabletop. “If that’s all⁠—”


“Brontes has the entire Thessian army as well as an army of sellswords,” Tobias said. “Surely there’s no harm in contacting your Ethyuan associates now.”


Keene didn’t bother looking his way. “As I said, a last resort.”


“Then we’ll strategize,” Leila said. “We need a line of defense, plus a clear path to retake the fortress.”


“Another time.” Flynn cut Her off, assured and eloquent in ways he’d never shown himself capable of in the tournament. “For now, we secure the assets. We can’t storm the palace without them, so there’s no need to continue.”


Tobias’s eyes narrowed. “And you suggest we remain idle until then? Sit passively while Brontes advances?”


“As opposed to making ill-conceived plans? Yes, I do.”


“With all due respect, we were attacked not far from here,” Raphael said. “Our time is limited as it is. The sovereign already has an advantage. We need to be several paces ahead of him if we aim to gain the upper hand, much less reclaim Thessen.”


“What if both Navé and the Ethyuans fall short?” Tobias added. “Have we a contingency?”


“I do hate to be redundant, but it bears repeating that Trogolia must be our next stop,” Raphael groused. “Brontes wouldn’t expect it, plus their borders are lax.”


“While we appreciate your concern, this sort of decision is better left to the experts.” Flynn looked Tobias hard in the eye. “We’d hate to leave The Savior in inadequate hands.”


Tobias’s jaw flexed, but Leila spoke before he could. “I’m in agreement with Tobias and Raphael. There are lives at stake besides My own—the whole of the realm, in fact. These sorts of matters are best handled with swift and sure action.”


“It’s been decided.” Keene studied a final slip of parchment before rolling it. “You have our horses and coin. We will secure Your men. Save the strategy for a more sensible time.”


“Waiting isn’t an option,” Leila said.


Keene’s gaze locked with Hers, cool as always. “We will reconvene in the morn, Your Holiness. It’s what’s best for You and Your endeavors.”


Tobias and Raphael turned to Leila, who could only scowl in response. At Her whim. But these walls belonged to the Joseon family, and their word was law. She may have stood at the head, but Her power was temporary, a courtesy to be snatched away at any moment. Another self-important cock. Perhaps it wasn’t so different from Senate meetings after all.


“I’ll have the herald draft the message. Flynn”—Keene gestured toward his son—“please show Her Holiness our latest inventory.”


Her stomach soured. “That won’t be necessary.”


“Nonsense. We’ll leave You to the task.” Keene turned to Tobias and Raphael. “Gentlemen, come.”


Tobias looked to Leila once more before following the noble from the room. As the door shut behind them, Leila sighed. Another bold order from an arrogant man. If She hadn’t so desperately depended on his assistance, She most certainly wouldn’t have held Her tongue.


“Oof.” Flynn exhaled. “That was a racket, wasn’t it?”


Her neck and shoulders stiffened. They were alone together, the room around them heavy and grim. She’d been in close quarters with men before, certainly men like Flynn. Rarely did She enjoy their company.


“All right then, inventory.” Flynn took a seat, scanning over a long slip of parchment and shaking his head. “I won’t lie, this part’s a bit boring, but we can sort through it in no time if we . . . Where are my manners? Have a seat.”


“I’m fine.”


“Don’t be silly, I insist.”


He shot upright and pulled out a chair, beckoning Her twice before She complied.


“All right.” He parked himself in his seat, studious yet again. “Here are our warhorses ready for battle. The list isn’t too impressive, but You’ll find we have many steeds in training that, I assure You, are more than prepared to carry Your army. Give them a soldier, and they’re fit to go. And You already saw our ledgers. You won’t be lacking in coin, that’s for certain.” He met Her gaze. “You came to the right place, Your Holiness. The Joseon stables won’t fail You.”


That debonair smirk, the arch of his eyebrow, the wisps of hair dancing across his forehead—She knew the man, but the air around him had shifted, as had his posture, his gait and tongue. He was a stranger in every form but his face, and the disconnect jarred Her.


“Let’s see.” He stroked his chin. “With our stock, plus whatever the old man over on the cliffs of Navé can scrounge up, I suspect . . . God, this must be so confusing. Let me break it down in simpler terms⁠—”


“I’m familiar with inventory, Flynn.”


He flashed a cocksure grin. “Apologies, I was simply trying to make You comfortable.”


“Why?”


He chuckled. “Well, why not?”


“You’re just being so . . . funny.”


“Funny?”


She rolled Her eyes. “‘Have a seat. You came to the right place, Your Holiness. We won’t fail You.’”


“I’m treating You as a proper lady ought to be treated.”


“You never treated Me as a proper lady before.”


“Well, that was my mistake, and I aim to rectify it at once.”


“That was your mistake?” Her eyes narrowed. “A lack of formalities and platitudes?”


Flynn wrinkled his brow, quiet for a moment. “You’re upset. I didn’t know You were The Savior. I didn’t give to You the respect You deserve.”


“I’m not upset about that.”


“I’m trying to make amends. To right my wrongs now that the opportunity has presented itself. I apologized the other night, did I not?”


“Flynn, I intended to keep My title hidden for a reason,” Leila said. “There’s no reason to be ashamed for not knowing. No one knew. That was the point.”


“My performance was flawed.” His voice climbed higher with each word. “But every step I took was with The Savior’s line in mind. I meant no harm, only goodness and glory for Her Holiness.”


“You don’t have to justify yourself. I understand.”


He looked back at Her as if reading Her face, searching for something She couldn’t surmise. Finally, he released a breath. “You’re too kind.”


His body went loose while Leila remained rigid, the strain in Her neck spreading down Her spine. “And what about Tobias?”


Flynn’s eyebrows knitted together. “What about Tobias?”


“You nearly killed him.”


“With all due respect, killing was a part of Your tournament.”


“My father’s tournament,” She said. “And Tobias didn’t attempt to kill you. In fact, he saved your life on more than one occasion.”


“But that was before⁠—”


“Before what?” Her tone turned razor-sharp. “Before you learned he was consorting with the healer?”


Flynn opened his mouth to speak but froze, his mind turning behind his eyes. “You’re right.” He shook his head. “Of course, You’re right. I’ll speak with him. Sort things out. It was all a misunderstanding, anyway.”


“Thank you.”


“Don’t thank me, I should be thanking You,” he said. “I’ve been so distracted. Foolish, really. Such is the fault of man, yes?”


Leila thawed the slightest bit, but Her nerves remained piqued. She searched the air for color that never came, and though She craved the smallest inkling of Flynn’s thoughts, She hadn’t the desire nor the gall to touch him.


The dreariness of the room hit Her. She glanced toward the window, where the sun was barely peeking over the horizon, the sky painted purple. They’d spent nearly the full day in that room, yet She felt no closer to defeating Her father.


“I have to go.”


“Oh?” Flynn laughed. “Another important meeting?”


“Yes, actually.” She stood from Her seat, brushing down the pleats of Her dress before heading for the door.


“Can I ask You a question?” Flynn’s voice stopped Her in Her tracks. He stood, staring at Her with a probing gaze. “Why did You reveal Yourself to him?”


“Pardon?”


“I’m just curious. Why did You reveal Yourself to Tobias instead of someone else?”


“I didn’t,” She said. “He chose Me before he knew of My title.”


“And that didn’t bother You?”


“Why would it bother Me?”


An uncomfortable silence lingered, and She turned away, leaving him and the tension behind. She walked briskly, eyes darting to each window She passed, watching the sky blacken far too quickly. She hadn’t much time. Fortunately, the villa was considerably smaller than the palace, making it much easier to find an empty corridor. She held Her breath.


The watchtower.


Light exploded around Her, and She stumbled across rough, gritty stone. Delphi paced beside the watchtower sill, arms crossed over her blue dress and head tucked beneath the hood of her cloak. She started, then frowned. “Where have You been? I’ve been waiting for ages.”


“I lost track of the hour.” Leila lunged forward, wrapping Her sister in a hug. “I was stuck in the most tedious meeting with Flynn and his father.”


“I’m sorry, for a second there I thought You said Flynn.”


“We sought his aid and shelter.”


Delphi gaped at Her. “Flynn Joseon? The imperious Prince of the Sovereign’s Tournament? A man who cares for little more than his own pride and reputation?”


“They are the wealthiest landowners in Thessen with plenty of warhorses and military contacts. It was an obvious move toward securing My army.”


Groaning, Delphi resumed her pacing. “God. Why do the worst decisions have to be the most logical?” She stopped short, pinching the bridge of her nose. “Flynn is an ass.”


“His father isn’t much better.”


“How’s Tobias handling this?”


“Handling what?”


“Flynn tried to kill him,” Delphi said. “Multiple times. I imagine he’s taking this hard.”


Flashes of the tournament swept Leila’s mind—Flynn’s fist plunging into Tobias’s nose, his sword at Tobias’s throat—and She forced back a shudder. “It was Tobias’s idea. But . . . he’s tense.”


“Shocking.”


“I’m trying to do the right thing.”


“That was sweet of him. Taking You to a man he hates solely to serve Your cause.”


Leila sighed. “Please, don’t make Me feel worse than I already do.”


“Why do You feel bad?” Delphi said. “Leila, this is for Thessen. Sacrifices must be made. I’m just saying, it takes a big man to set aside his anger.” She smiled. “I knew he was good for You.”


An ease swept over Leila. Her mind was suddenly wrapped up in Tobias, and in recent memories that left Her warm all over and grinning.


“What?” Delphi chuckled.


“I made him come last night.”


Delphi’s eyes widened. “Did you fuck?”


“No.” Leila shook Her fist, demonstrating Her recently acquired skill.


“I see.” A knowing smirk swept Delphi’s lips. “Polished his silver?”


“He was so vulgar. It was thrilling.”


Delphi laughed, though her eyes were on the skyline. “As much as I’d love the details⁠—”


“You have news.”


Delphi’s throat bobbed, an answer in itself. “Brontes was gone for several days. I hadn’t a clue where until he returned.” Her expression turned somber. “He was with his sellswords.”


“You know where they are?”


“Just that they’re secluded far from here, toward the north, it seems. He’s gone to great lengths to keep their location hidden. Probably has them tucked away in the countryside, close to⁠—”


“Kovahr.” Leila clenched Her jaw. “That way they can invade with ease, and all the realm will believe in his cause.”


“Not everyone believes Brontes.” Hope flashed in Delphi’s eyes. “People in the palace are talking. They’ve seen him for years—question his motives. You have allies here.”


Footsteps echoed up the watchtower stairs. “Delphi? Delphi.” Hylas barreled toward them, panting. “Apologies.” He leaned onto his knees as he caught his breath. “Soldiers are scouring the corridors.”


“So, knock,” Delphi growled.


“They’re questioning everyone. I had to make myself scarce.” His large eyes flitted between the sisters. “I’m sorry, but we need to go.”


Leila’s heart lurched. “Please be safe.”


“We won’t disappoint You,” Hylas said.


“I don’t care about that.” A lump lodged in Her throat, and She tried and failed to swallow it down. “Just be safe.”


She planted Her palm to Delphi’s chest, then to Hylas’s, filling them up with Her light. Still, it wasn’t enough. Perhaps the blessing would betray Her. Shadow walking was difficult to maneuver under extreme duress, and Her light hadn’t exactly been behaving as of late. The tournament Culmination burst through Her thoughts, along with the glowing handprints covering Tobias’s body—blessings She hadn’t intended to bestow, their appearance still a mystery to Her. She pushed aside Her worries, though the weight in Her gut remained. She was leaving Her sister behind yet again.


Delphi offered a sympathetic smile as if privy to Her thoughts. “We’re taking every precaution.” She cupped Leila’s hand in hers. “Don’t worry about us. We’re here living in luxury. Worry about Yourself—and Tobias, the poor thing.”


Leila forced another hard swallow. “Love you.”


Her sister and the senator disappeared behind Her light, and when blue walls materialized around Her, She could’ve sworn they sucked the air from Her lungs.


Deep breaths. She fought to steady Herself, but a hollowness engulfed Her, leaving Her little more than a vessel. Saying goodbye hadn’t gotten any easier. Perhaps it never would.


“God, You scared me.”


Tobias stood opposite Her, a welcome smile on his face that somewhat quelled Her nerves. She glanced toward the door—locked, thankfully—then around his chamber. The difference between their quarters was staggering, as his was smaller, and the furnishings were quite sparse and a bit faded. Then Her sister’s visage paraded through Her mind, and Her heart sagged.


“Apologies, I . . .” She shook Her head. “I didn’t want to be alone.”


“Are You all right?” Tobias’s face dropped. “Was it Flynn?”


“I saw Delphi.” The concern in his gaze didn’t lift, and She sighed. “She’s fine, it’s just⁠—”


“You miss her.” He sat on his bed, his expression softening. “Come here, darling.”


She climbed onto the mattress, curling up beside him and nestling Her cheek into the curve of his neck. His heart beat against Her ear, and She tried to take comfort in its cadence while Her mind spiraled into places it ought not go.


“I haven’t seen Pippa in ages.” She clung to the front of his tunic, nails digging into the fabric. “And I don’t even want to think of what Cosima is doing.”


“These are trying times. And You’re handling it with the utmost grace.”


“Horse shit.”


“Don’t horse shit me. I’ve been in awe of You these past few days. I knew You were a queen, but now I get to see it.” Tobias took Her chin, guiding Her gaze toward his. “Very impressive.”


His crooked smile loosened Her tight shoulders. “I didn’t like the way they spoke to you. Keene and Flynn.”


“Well, I don’t like a lot of things about this place. But that’s not the point. The point is, You, my darling, have an army.”


Leila scoffed. “Not quite.”


“Well, You have horses and coin coming out the ass, which is a proper start.”


“How are you so content with all this?” She trailed Her fingertips down his chest. “I know it’s not easy. Being here . . . with Flynn.”


“It’s easy being here with You.” Leila raised an eyebrow, and Tobias sighed. “My greatest concern is the wellbeing of those I love most,” he said. “So, if that means biting my tongue around a pompous ass and his prick of a father, I’ll do it.”


“He’s going to speak with you. Flynn. He told Me as much.”


Tobias snorted. “What a joyous day that will be.”


“He said he wanted to sort things out.”


“Do You believe him?”


“I don’t know what to believe.” She frowned. “I just want you to be happy, is all.”


“It’s a good thing You’re here, then.”


The charming glint in his eyes made Her smirk. “You and your silver tongue.”


“It’s true.” He entwined his fingers with Hers, stroking Her knuckles back and forth. “Most days I haven’t a clue what I’m doing. I just bumble around like a fool, hoping I make the sort of decisions that keep us alive a while longer. And then moments later, You tell me I’m Yours, and suddenly I feel like a man.”


“You are a man. My man.”


“See, there it is again. I feel as though I’ve grown a foot. My cock’s done the same, I’m sure of it.”


Leila chuckled. “You’re mad.”


His deep brown gaze shined, brought to life by Her laughter. “You remind me I’m not completely lost. That I must be doing something right if I’ve managed to find myself with You.”


The faintest shades of pink and orange wafted through the air. Leila breathed them in, a citrusy scent, and exhaled, free in Tobias’s embrace. It was uncanny how Tobias’s company alone managed to rid Her of Her troubles. A smile had rooted itself in Leila’s cheeks, too powerful to contain, and She swept Her fingers up his arm, drawing swirls in his billowing lust. Eruptions of fuchsia burst through the room like tiny storm clouds, but all the while Tobias stared at Her, calm and captivated.


“Your eyes look like fire,” he said.


“So I’ve been told. Many, many times.”


“Then I imagine You’ve heard they’re incredibly beautiful.”


“I have.” Her hand danced as She spoke, circling the linen over his navel. “But not from a handsome man staring into them the way you are now. Feels completely different in this moment.”


Tobias leaned in closer, a whisper away. “Your eyes are incredibly beautiful.” He kissed Her. “Your lips are incredibly beautiful.” He kissed Her again. “You are incredibly beautiful.”


His next kiss was long and lingering, as if he was relishing the taste of Her. She pulled him in deeper, sinking into the bedsheets as his body writhed against Her own. His hands on Her hips, the tip of his tongue toying with Hers—it was all so suggestive, a temptation She hadn’t the patience for. She reached down the front of his pants, wrangling his cock and stroking it slow and firm.


“Oh my God.” Tobias groaned, nuzzling his face into Her hair. “Oh my God, Leila.” He hesitated, then took Her wrist, halting Her. “Wait.”


Leila faltered. “I thought you liked it.”


“I do,” he said. “A lot, actually. That’s the problem. It’s very distracting, and I need to concentrate.”


“Concentrate on what?”


He let out a laugh. “What do you mean, on what? I want to please You. I want to make You tremble and cry out my name. God, do You know what Your moaning does to me?”


His gaze was penetrating, muddling Her thoughts. Heat bloomed in Her cheeks and between Her legs, and despite Her desire to be alluring, or seductive, or at the very least articulate, all She could manage was a soft “Oh.”


“Oh?” He furrowed his brow. “Am I making You uncomfortable?”


Her fucking voice—it had disappeared somewhere, busy with more important matters, the little bitch. If She couldn’t speak, She’d act instead. Her kiss was deep and voracious, Her nails digging into his back, and he growled as She ground Her hips against his. Aroused and ignited, he cupped Her breasts before slinking his hand down Her waist and between Her thighs. His voice came out breathy against Her mouth.


“Can I touch You?”


His words were gentle, but fuchsia eddied around him, revealing the depths of his desire. Shuddering, Leila nodded, and he slid Her legs apart, gliding his hand up Her inner thigh.


“Tobias . . .” Her voice had apparently found itself again. He massaged the soft flesh just shy of Her entrance, and She groaned, desire throbbing between Her legs. “Don’t tease Me.”


His finger slipped inside Her with ease, and She gasped. Slow, easy strokes, and a second finger joined the rhythm, filling Her mind with lechery and sex, with images of Tobias on top of Her, inside Her. She closed Her eyes, drowning in the movement, reveling in the foreign feeling of being touched. It was heady and intoxicating, though not particularly effective. She took his hand in Her own.


“Like this.” She pressed his thumb to Her clit, guiding it in soft circles.


“I thought You’ve never done this before.”


“I’ve never been with a man. But I’ve done this to Myself many times.”


His eyes widened, and he clamped down on his lip as if to keep himself contained. “You can’t just say things like that, Leila.”


He kissed Her hard and fast with tongue and teeth, unleashing a fraction of his lust through his ravenous mouth. All the while he obeyed Her command, a bit awkwardly at first, but he hit his stride once Her breathing hitched and quickened. Perhaps he was studying Her, memorizing the motions that made Her buck and purr, barely grazing when Her throat caught and kneading when Her hands raked up his back. She hadn’t realized until then that Her legs were spread wide, that She was circling Her hips in time with his touch, that when She moaned in his mouth, his cock jumped against Her leg.


“Like that?”


She nodded, biting his bottom lip. “Keep going.”


And he did, thank God, as the pleasure swirling within Her was reaching its crescendo. She grabbed at his hair, then at the sheets, arching Her back as She rode his touch harder. “Tobias.” His name was a lifeline, something to tether Her in place. “I’m so close . . .” And then the beginning of the end undulated through Her, Her hips flexing as control gave way to release. Bliss consumed Her from the inside out, and Her core throbbed, overwhelmed with indulgence. It was too much, too potent, too good. She moaned his name again and again, over and over.


A torrent of heat and rapture swelled through Her. Then it ebbed, leaving Her with Tobias’s touch and a gentle ache between Her legs. Her nerves sparked like tiny flames across Her skin, and a languid ease wrapped around Her.


Pink filled the room like a beautiful fog, tasting sugary on Her tongue. She hadn’t noticed in the moment, too caught up in the power of Her orgasm, but Tobias’s billowing lust wrapped around the space, filling Her lungs with yearning and sweetness. To be wanted like that, coveted during such an intimate moment, was a pleasure in itself.


Tobias came in closer, trailing kisses down Her throat. “I take it You enjoyed that?”


She nodded, luxuriating in his greedy touch and the heady scent of his desire. When he brought his lips to Hers, She smiled.


“Do it again.”



OceanofPDF.com

c1E
    
  


  


Trigger Warnings

This book contains graphic violence, sexual situations, physical abuse, torture sequences, drug use, slavery, adult language, threats of sexual assault, and depictions of PTSD, and is recommended for readers ages 18 and older.



OceanofPDF.com

c1FY
    
  


  


Chapter 9

Tobias


Three. That was the number of times Tobias had made Leila come over the past two days. Well, one evening and one morning. Technically, when combining the hours, it was one day. One day, and three climaxes. Inadequate, my ass. He could die an accomplished man, and anyone who said otherwise was a cock.


Leila curled up at his side, resting Her head against his chest as She let out a contented hum. The world outside his chamber was inconsequential. There was only his bed and Leila’s nakedness pressed to his, Her fingertips drawing circles along his stomach. He reveled in the path of Her nails, the warmth of Her touch leaving glowing streaks across his body. Light beamed, then faded from his skin, but still Her fingers traveled, marking him like a canvas to use as She pleased.


“You’ve been holding out on me,” he said.


She stopped Her artwork and perked Her head up. “How?”


“When we left the fortress, You promised to tell me everything.”


“And I did! I told you all about Brontes’s plan, the war, the senators⁠—”


“What about this?” He held up Her hand, allowing the sun beaming through the window to catch and refract against Her palm.


Her eyes followed each glint, back and forth. “My light.”


“Just seems like something I ought to know about.”


Nothing. Her gaze had gone vacant, and tension prickled beneath his flesh. “I just want to know You,” he said. “Understanding Your light seems like a pivotal part to that.”


“It’s a bit complicated.”


“I have nowhere to be but by Your side. For the next lifetime or so, at least.”


Sighing, She rolled onto Her back, eyes on the ceiling. “You already know so much. My healing touch, My blessings, the shadow walking . . .”


As Her voice trailed off, Tobias’s stomach caved in. She wasn’t going to say anything. He’d been here before, except instead of a bed, they lay in a garden, and instead of magic, they discussed politics and death. Perhaps he’d been naive, thinking things would change. Or perhaps he’d been too domineering, forcing change Leila wasn’t yet ready for. Relationships were so confusing. Was this Her misstep, or was it his own?


Leila took in a long, slow breath. “Sometimes, when I touch people . . . I can feel things.”


An answer. Tobias tried to mask his surprise. “Like what?”


“Their emotion,” Leila said. “Their sickness. Their pain.”


“That sounds like a heavy burden to bear.”


She nuzzled against him, linking Her arm with his. “It’s not just My touch, you know. It’s My eyes.”


Her gaze connected with his, blazing yellow in the sun. Of course. If Her light manifested in Her flesh, surely Her eyes were no different.


“So, You can see things?”


“Mmhmm.”


He raised an eyebrow. “Do I have a tail? You can tell me, Leila. I’ll take it like a man.”


Leila chuckled, relaxing at his side. Her fingertips once again danced across his chest. “Sometimes, if it’s strong enough, I can see how someone is feeling.”


“Is that right? How?”


“Colors.” Her eyes scanned the nothingness in front of them. “Little rainbows swirling through the air. Well, not quite. I wish it were that beautiful all the time.” She smiled. “Your colors can be quite magical, though.”


Back and forth, Her gaze darted. He’d seen that look before, curious and searching, a missing piece to a puzzle he hadn’t known existed.


“How am I feeling?”


She smirked. “Smug. Mischievous. Aroused.”


“You can see all that?”


“I can see it in your stupid grin.”


Her laughter fueled his own, and he didn’t resist the urge to pull Her close. She slinked Her arms around his neck and entwined Her legs with his. “You don’t need to tell Me you love Me,” She whispered. “I can see it. Feel it.”


“I’ll tell You all the same.”


She wore a beaming smile, all trace of apprehension forgotten. Taking his chin, She gave him a light kiss, tender in a way he wasn’t accustomed to. Then there was a sharp nip at his bottom lip, and he chuckled. That was the Leila he knew.


Reinvigorated, She crawled on top of him and straddled his thighs. “We can save the rest for another time.”


“There’s more?” he said.


“Right now, I’m much more interested in feeling you.” She ran Her palms up his bare chest, taking him in with a hungry gaze.


“For a pure woman, You’re very handsy.”


“You want Me to mind My manners?” She said.


“Not in the slightest, but what would Keene think?”


Leila laughed. “You fool.”


“It’s so indecent.”


She chuckled, biting his earlobe as Her hands explored his body. He flipped Her onto Her back, pride swelling within him when She squealed, then planted his lips on Her favorite spot along the curve of Her neck. Without fail, She moaned that delicious sound into his hair, corrupting his thoughts.


“I want to taste You,” he said.


Her eyes flitted to his, flashing with surprise. “Is that right?” She smirked. “There’s only one way to rectify that.”


Victory. Tobias tried to maintain composure, but the grin that threatened to split his lips was winning. Instead, he buried his face into Her throat, then between Her breasts, trailing kisses along Her ivory flesh while his hands trekked down to Her thighs.


A scream cut through the air, and both Tobias and Leila jumped. Leila sat upright. “What was⁠—?”


Another scream tore through the villa, then another, as if the person—a woman—were being tortured to the beat of a drum. No, not a scream; it was more of howl, measured and theatric.


“Yes! Yes! Yes!”


Leila looked to Tobias. “Someone’s fucking?”


“Someone’s fucking,” he confirmed.


Grunting and slapping joined the mix, loud and fervent, as if the two lovers were riding one another down the corridor, parading their relations for all to behold. “Harder! Again!” A bed frame pounded against a wall somewhere, faster and faster until a guttural groan ripped through the air, the telltale finale of their exploits.


The room fell quiet, though it was stilted. Tobias and Leila sat frozen beneath their shared sheet. Were they servants, perhaps? Unlikely. The staff at the Joseon villa were more regimented than soldiers. Pulling on his pants, Tobias tiptoed out of bed and cracked the door open.


“Tobias, what are you⁠—?”


He held out a hand, silencing Leila. The click of a lock, the shuffling of feet, and a woman in a stately plum dress wafted by, a heavy coin purse hanging from her hip. A man followed, taking her by the waist, his chest bare and hair wet with sweat.


Flynn.


He tugged the woman against him, whispering into her ear before scooting her off with a pat on the bum. She chuckled as she disappeared from sight, while Flynn lingered, watching her until her footsteps faded. As he turned on his heel, Tobias threw open the door and followed.


“What the hell are you doing?” he spat.


Tobias wrenched Flynn’s shoulder and spun him around, only to be met with a proud grin. Flynn looked him up and down with a sneer and a laugh. “If I have to explain it to you, I feel for your woman.”


“You can’t bring people here,” Tobias said. “It’s bad enough your servants know.”


“Please, the servants won’t talk.”


“We’re fugitives.”


“You’re a fugitive,” Flynn said. “Leila isn’t, is She? She’s your captive.”


The rage within Tobias bubbled and seethed, turning his body to steel. Flynn eyed his clenched fists and scoffed. “Calm down, Artist, I’m only kidding⁠—”


“You’re not fucking kidding.” Tobias leaned in closer. “Our lives are in danger.”


“So, you can wet your cock in my home, but I can’t?”


Tobias went still. He didn’t know. He couldn’t. They’d been so careful, shadow walking in the evening hours, and quiet, whispering beneath bedsheets and moaning into pillows. But Flynn’s breathing had become labored, and the rise and fall of his chest was heated.


Has he been spying on us?


“My God, where are my manners?” Flynn let out a hateful laugh. “You’re my guest, after all. Go on, then. Sully my sheets. They cost more than you’re worth, but by all means.” He slapped Tobias on the back, then grabbed his shoulder, digging in. “Tell Leila I said hello. Once you’re done disappointing Her, at least.”


Tobias ripped free from Flynn’s grip, and Flynn swaggered down the corridor with his head high.


“You had something to say to me?” Tobias called out.


Stopping short, Flynn looked over his shoulder. “Come again?”


“I said, you had something to say to me.”


Flynn’s gaze hardened. “Haven’t a clue what you’re talking about.”


He continued on his way while Tobias glared into the back of the man’s head. Blood burned through his veins like magma, and he retreated into his bedchamber, slamming and locking the door behind him.


Tobias and Leila dressed in a hurry, their lust extinguished and morning ruined. They quickly parted ways, taking different paths to the same destination—another meeting with Keene, Raphael, and fucking Flynn. He eyed Tobias sidelong, a pompous smirk on his lips, while Tobias imagined the crack of Flynn’s jaw beneath his fist.


“Greetings,” Keene said. “I trust you slept well.”


Flynn’s smirk erupted into a full-blown grin. “Never better.”


He winked at Tobias, who ground his teeth, fighting back an onslaught of profanities.


Keene didn’t bother addressing his son or the other men for that matter, his eyes on the scroll before him. “We shall keep this meeting brief. I imagine Her Holiness is eager to break Her fast.”


“Actually, I’m far more eager to put an end to My father’s tyranny,” Leila said. “This army is My sole focus from now until the job is done.”


Keene offered a respectable nod. “Of course. A herald has only just left for Navé. As soon as we receive word, we will assess the situation and proceed.”


“And how long until word returns?” Tobias stepped forward, his aggravation clear in his tone. “Long enough for Brontes to discover Her location? To invade your home?”


Keene cast Tobias an emotionless glance. “I cannot bring forth soldiers from nothing.”


“But we can at the very least use the time to our advantage.” Leila spoke with bold assurance, a queen in both stature and voice. “Navé isn’t a guarantee. We could devise a fallback and search for Brontes’s sellswords.”


“As I said in our last meeting, this is the only way.”


“Her Holiness is right,” Flynn said.


The room fell silent. Confused, Tobias glanced between Leila and Raphael, then to Flynn, who stood poised and pontifical, unbothered by the shift in attention—relishing it, perhaps.


Keene’s expression turned severe. “Son?”


“Navé is clear across the continent,” Flynn said.


“I’m aware of geography.”


“Then you know the wait will be long, and our Savior hasn’t the time to spend it idly.”


Raphael nodded along while Tobias swallowed a growl. A valid point—one Tobias had spoken the day prior.


“You did not hold such an opinion during our last meeting.”


“I’ve had the night to think long and hard on Her Holiness’s words.” Flynn looked to Leila. “I say we hedge our bets. Send word to our contacts in Ethyua. All three of them.”


A flicker of a frown crossed Keene’s face. “They’re a contingency.”


“Well then, if Navé offers their defenses, we’ll simply send the Ethyuans on their way.”


“Ethyuans do not care for⁠—”


“Ethyuans don’t care for many things, yet they remain in our pocket all the same.”


“You speak over me?”


Quiet sliced through the space like a knife, Keene on one side, his son on the other. An unspoken duel waged between them, their unblinking stares their only weapons, but it was Flynn who conceded with a bow of his head.


“Apologies. You are my father, and my respect for you is unwavering.” He turned to Leila, offering another, deeper bow. “But my respect for The One True Savior is greater. She is in dire need of an army, and time is of the essence. Wouldn’t you agree four prospects are better than one?”


“The south plays no games,” Keene said.


“You have taught me there is no risk too great when serving our queen.”


The quiet lingered, a slow-moving predator stalking its prey. Tobias reached for the blade on his thigh, preparing for blood as father and son glared daggers through one another.


Before he could unsheathe his weapon, Keene gestured at a servant waiting in the shadows. “Summon the heralds. We’ll send word to Ethyua.”


Leila remained composed, though the loosening of Her shoulders revealed Her relief. “Thank you, Keene.” She hesitated, then nodded at his son. “To you as well, Flynn.”


“I live to serve,” Flynn said, and Tobias’s muscles were yet again flexed, prepared for a battle nowhere in sight.


The meeting trudged on with much posturing and false respect, but Tobias did little to contribute. What good was it when his words carried no weight—when a nobleman could steal his voice and change the tide? Perhaps his anger was misplaced. Moves were being made, and wasn’t that the goal? The Joseons listened to Leila and regarded Her dutifully as She stood at the head of the table, analyzing maps and giving orders to servants. For the first time, they saw Her rightful title as Queen. Then Flynn paced at the opposite side of the table, brow furrowed with concentration, and Tobias’s sight was awash in red.


Servants shuffled scrolls into satchels and retreated to complete their errands. The meeting was over. Flynn was the first to leave, gracing Leila and his father with another bow and ignoring Tobias and Raphael entirely. Leila left soon after on Keene’s arm, nodding as he droned on, casting Tobias a bored glance as they disappeared together. Tobias, on the other hand, was rooted to the floor. Everything within him had turned rigid and still—save for his heart, which pounded against his rib cage, threatening to burst free.


“That was an unexpected improvement,” Raphael said, standing beside Tobias as he scanned over the remaining slips of parchment. “Leila’s point about the sovereign’s sellswords—that’s our next mark. Keene can be swayed. We’ve seen this today. In our next meeting, we bring up the mercenary army, and we⁠—”


“There is no we,” Tobias spat. “Just because we’ve allowed you on this journey doesn’t mean anything has changed.”


He threw open the door and charged from the room before Raphael could rebut. His heartbeat had broken past the confines of his chest, and he sucked in long, deep breaths, willing the stony composure to take hold of him once again. God, what is wrong with me?


The dining room opened around him, its eerie blackness unsettling despite the sparse candlelight. Servants were clearing breakfast dishes and trays of uneaten fruit. Naomi sat in what had become her usual chair, wearing a fresh white dress fastened with a leather belt. He made his way to her side, running his hand through his hair as if he could tousle aside his burdened thoughts. “Where’s Mother?”


“At the stables again. You know how much she adores horses.” Naomi cocked her head toward the meeting room. “How’d it go in there?”


Tobias flopped into a seat with an oof. “Fine.”


“Sounds like it.”


“They’re sending heralds to their contacts in Ethyua, exhausting all their resources to get Leila an army as soon as possible.”


“That’s good news.” Naomi raised an eyebrow. “Isn’t it?”


“Fucking splendid.”


“You sound so pleased.”


He surveyed her with an inspecting gaze. “How’s your back?”


“Broken.” She mustered a slight smile. “Servants are keeping me comfortable.”


Footsteps echoed off the walls, and Tobias cursed when Flynn sauntered in. He met Tobias’s gaze, then smacked a passing servant on the bum, that hideous smirk playing at his wretched mouth once again.


“How do you imagine him dying?” Naomi leaned toward Tobias, whispering out of the corner of her mouth. “I was thinking we’d hang him upside down by the balls and let the blood rush to his brain until it explodes.”


Tobias grumbled, “I don’t think that’s how it works.”


“That’s exactly how it works.”


“He brought a courtesan to the villa.”


Naomi sat up straight. “Did they see you?”


“I don’t know.”


“Will they tell?”


“I said I don’t know.”


He dug his nails into his armrests, channeling his frustration into his grip. Control yourself. But every nerve within him stood at attention, and he could’ve sworn he felt the nick of Flynn’s sword pointed at his throat, could hear the audience cheering.


The arena collapsed around him at the sound of Naomi’s long, irritated sigh. Humming to herself, she dug through her pocket and pulled out its contents—a ruby red ribbon, shiny with newness.


Tobias lurched in his seat. “What the hell is that?”


“It’s a promise,” she said.


“I know what it is, but why⁠—?”


“For you and Leila.”


As the silk spooled in her palms and poured into her lap, the life Tobias had long discarded unfolded before him: his village awash in browns and grey, save for the occasional flash of red on someone’s wrist—a promise tied into a bow, often accompanied by a wide smile or shy, rosy cheeks. Friends and strangers alike would stop to stare, to offer their congratulations, or to marvel over the ribbon as if it were dripping in jewels. But he’d never seen a promise like this—untied, before it was a promise at all, just a question in waiting.


A longing for marriage with no answer, no assurance.


Naomi shifted in her seat. “There’s no pressure, and no need to make haste.”


“I know that,” he said.


“But you love Her. And we’re in the middle of a war, with no access to civilization for however long. So, when the time comes . . . a promise.”


He plucked the ribbon from her hands, rubbing it between his fingers—soft, fragile. One wrong move and it would shatter in his grasp.


“How’d you get this?”


“The servants like me.” Naomi flipped her hair. “For obvious reasons.”


The silk swirls sat heavily in his hands. He’d never considered such a moment, hadn’t seen it in his future. He had long been married to labor and the coin his family so desperately required. To promise himself to a woman was pure fantasy. But the sugarcane fields were hundreds of miles away, and he had Leila. What would it be like to wear the ribbon on his wrist? To tie it along Hers?


“Are you upset with me?” Naomi said.


Something warm and effervescent bubbled inside him, stirring his nerves. He met her gaze and smiled. “Thank you.”


He wrapped her in a firm hug, holding the promise tight as if it might slither from his grasp. His mind bounced between horror and bliss.


What if She says no?


But God, what if She says yes?


Naomi released him, ending his reverie. It didn’t matter. Hope radiated in his chest, his emotions a flurry of everything scary and wonderful all at once. And then the façade faded, reality crashing down on him like boulders in the labyrinth.


Flynn leaned against the doorway, eyeing the ribbon in Tobias’s grasp before he turned on his heel and left.





The afternoon air was wet and dense, beading along Tobias’s skin. He’d been waiting in the shade of a broadleaf tree while Flynn sparred with his trainer in the distance. The noble was adept with the sword, artful in ways Tobias hadn’t learned himself. All showmanship and no brutality, completely useless for battle—or perhaps Tobias was biased. He wasn’t exactly an expert.


The two men dropped their swords and shook on a job well done, and the trainer was off, leaving Flynn to gain his bearings or perhaps neaten his impeccably groomed hair. It was time. The tension was consuming Tobias, and he wasn’t waiting any longer. This was about Leila, after all. Bygones were a distraction they couldn’t afford.


Sunlight blasted over him as he marched down the grassy hillside. Flynn stood in the middle of a plain—a paddock for horses, most likely—polishing his perfectly shiny sword. He didn’t meet Tobias’s gaze, but the flex of his back revealed Flynn felt him nearing.


“I suppose if you’re not going to muster the spine to speak to me, I’ll speak with you,” Tobias said.


Flynn let out a laugh. “Such a big man, you are. Leila’s a lucky girl.”


“Is that all you can do? Disparage my manhood? Because it isn’t working. I’m not you.”


One quick flick, and Flynn’s weapon was pointed at Tobias’s throat. “Say that again and see how⁠—”


“I’m not here to fight. And if you do in fact care for The Savior as much as you claim, you’d hear what I have to say.”


Neither man moved, an unspoken challenge in their eyes. Tobias didn’t reach for the dagger on his thigh, though it wasn’t lost on him how swiftly Flynn had drawn his weapon, nor had he failed to notice the familiarity of the moment.


“Go on, Artist.” Slowly, Flynn lowered his sword. “I can spare a moment for a common man.”


Tobias bit back his ire. “We don’t have to like each other. Hate me all you want. I promise I’ll lose no sleep over it. But this is bigger than us, and our malice, and the goddamn Sovereign’s Tournament.”


Flynn didn’t waver, so Tobias came in closer, well within striking distance. “It isn’t just Leila’s life on the line. If Brontes takes the throne, millions of people across Thessen and all the ally realms will die. I’ve made peace with our alliance for Leila’s sake. But if that’s not enough for you, do it for the countless lives hanging in the balance, including yours.”


Flynn remained braced, though something in his gaze had shifted—understanding, perhaps, or maybe he was considering launching his sword through Tobias’s gullet. Either way, Tobias held out his hand. “Truce?”


The stillness lingered. Then Flynn took Tobias’s arm, clasping it in a too-firm shake. Tobias clenched his jaw, fighting to keep his expression neutral. “This alliance will go down in history. You will be remembered for ages as the man who liberated The One True Savior.” He released Flynn. “You wanted greatness. This is your chance.”


Flynn was rarely a man of few words, but given the situation, Tobias was grateful for it. He backed away, then headed up the hillside.


“Congratulations on your promise, Artist,” Flynn called out.


Tobias looked over his shoulder, eyes narrowing. “We’re not promised.”


“But you will be soon, I take it.”


Tobias allowed the silence to speak for him, and Flynn nodded in response. “The better man won,” he said.


Tobias hesitated before retreating up the hill, waiting for a release that never came. His stomach was gnarled and knotted, and when flaxen linen fluttered in the distance, he welcomed the distraction. Two servants, a man and woman in matching dresses, hurried his way. Flynn bounded up the hill, reaching Tobias’s side once the servants arrived.


“Master?” The male servant spoke between labored panting. “The royal guard is here.”


Tobias’s lungs froze, and he cursed under his breath.


“They’ve requested an audience with the proprietors,” the female servant said.


“Is Keene not available?” Tobias asked.


“Unnecessary.” Flynn gestured toward Tobias. “Take him and the others to the shelter. I’ll address the guard.”


Tobias’s gut lurched. “Flynn⁠—”


“Go.” Flynn turned to the servants. “As your master, that is an order.”


Tobias stood firm, gripping the hilt of his dagger. “Come,” a servant cooed, taking his arm. “Master will take care of this.” Surely that was a lie, but the servants were already tugging him up the hillside, his obedient steps in direct opposition to every impulse within him. His throat sealed shut as the servants guided him across the land, first jogging, then running until they’d reached the villa, and all the while his gut protested, urging him to fight, to stay.


We made a truce. But he hadn’t expected to rely on it so soon.


The servants dragged him through winding corridors, stopping at an Ethyuan rug in black, green, and gold. Flipping the rug, the servant revealed a wooden trap door that opened to the dusty stairs of a hidden cellar, its walls lined with barrels of grain, wine, and herbs. The shelter—that’s what Flynn had called it. Tobias’s mother and sister were already waiting, a handful of servants at their side whispering into their ears and massaging their shoulders, offering comfort, it seemed. Raphael stood with his arms crossed while Leila paced the stone floor, hands balled at Her sides. She caught Tobias’s gaze and ran to him, throwing Her arms around his neck.


“Leila.” He held Her tight, speaking against Her cheek. “What is this?”


“Shh.” She pressed a finger to Her lips, then pointed to the ceiling above—wooden beams laid with tiles, sunlight bleeding through each crack and crevice.


“It’s a shelter.” Raphael reached his side, lowering his voice as he leaned over Tobias’s shoulder. “Common in noble estates, particularly the older ones. Allows you a place to hide while spying on potential intruders.”


A safeguard for the rich. Wonderful. The thought vanished as feet trudged overhead—certainly more than one man, a group in tight formation. Are we under the entryway? Dust spilled from the ceiling, sending the servants scattering, while Tobias eyed the slats as shadows cut back and forth through the sunlight. A latch clanked, and when the villa double doors screeched open, Tobias held his breath.


“Countrymen!” Flynn’s voice was muffled, joyful in a way Tobias hadn’t recognized since the tournament. “To what do I owe this honor? Are you here to admire our steeds?”


“We have orders to search the property,” a soldier said. “Dictated by the sovereign himself.”


Leila tightened Her grip on Tobias with one hand, the other reaching for Her weapon. Tobias couldn’t help but do the same.


“The sovereign is interested in our stock? I’m very flattered.”


“This is not a business matter. We’re searching for a fugitive.”


“You mean the Artist.”


Leila went rigid. Steeling himself, Tobias kept his gaze on the ceiling, fighting to peer between the slats and ceramic.


“We require access to the entirety of your villa,” the soldier said. “If you cooperate, we can make our presence brief.”


“By all means, search high and low. The full estate, even. But I assure you, I would never allow that traitor on my property.”


Tobias flinched.


“He attacked and murdered a phalanx not far from here.”


“Can’t say I’m surprised,” Flynn scoffed. “The day we met, I saw it in his eyes—could smell it on him. Ill-bred cunt looking to claw his way to glory.” The ceiling shifted, and dirt floated from the tiles. “When did the palace start allowing commoners to compete in the Sovereign’s Tournament?”


The soldier let out a laugh. “Senate was likely piss drunk that day.”


“No doubt about that.”


The two men guffawed overhead while Tobias seethed. The bite in Flynn’s voice was palpable, as were the eyes pointed his way—the gazes of servants, his sister and mother, questioning, pitying. He pretended he hadn’t noticed, but his insides came to a boil.


“So, there’s no chance the Artist is on your property?” the soldier said. “By your will, at least?”


Flynn laughed. “Are you mad? I’ll claim a front row seat at his execution. Hear this and hear it well—if that bastard ever comes near me, you’ll find him at the end of my sword.”


“We could use a man like you in our phalanx.”


“Come back around on your next circuit. My business will be done here. I’ll join you then.”


Leila’s fingers entwined with Tobias’s while he shrank smaller and smaller beneath everyone’s stares.


“Apologies for the disturbance.”


“Unnecessary,” Flynn said. “Continue your fine work. Catch the savage and kill him.”


More footsteps, loud and clomping, then softer, an echo in the distance. The doors slammed shut, sending another wave of dirt spilling onto their heads, though Tobias didn’t think much of it. He was already plenty tainted.


The trap door unlatched and swung open, revealing a servant’s head. “They’re gone,” he said.


They took turns filing up the steps, two servants carrying Naomi between them while her mother and Raphael helped. Tobias and Leila were the last to emerge, eyes trained on Flynn, who stood in the entryway within a circle of servants.


“Wonderful execution, Master.” A female servant bowed. “That was quite the convincing performance.”


“Yes.” Tobias clenched his jaw. “Very convincing.”


Flynn met his gaze, and Tobias waited for it—that dreadful smirk, the mark of his telltale pride. Instead, Flynn remained stoic, and when he spoke, Tobias could’ve sworn he heard the evenness of Keene.


“Anything to liberate The Savior.”



OceanofPDF.com

c1R7
    
  


  


Chapter 10

Leila


The clank of metal against metal vibrated in Leila’s ear, the clashing swords a breath away. Tobias offered a cheeky wink, and She struck harder, forcing him farther down the hillside with each blow. He was better than She had expected, a result of holy light coupled with extenuating circumstances, both of which She was responsible for. She dodged his next jab, circling Her student with keen determination. He was good, but he needed to be great. No, perfect. He wasn’t going to die in Brontes’s war, and She would make sure of that.


Tobias deflected Her assault, nimble and lithe as She stalked closer. He was losing steam. His attention may have been focused, but his chest rose and fell at a much quicker rate, his curls wet against his forehead. She feigned to the left, then lunged to the right, kicking out his ankle and knocking the weapon from his grasp. He dropped to his knees, hands raised as She pointed Her sword at his nose.


“Go on,” She said. “What’s your move?”


“I have none.” Tobias’s breathing slowed, and he shrugged. “You’ve won. I surrender.”


“You can’t surrender. You have to make a move. That’s the entire point.”


“But I can’t. You’ve clearly bested me. I’m at Your mercy.”


Leila sighed. “Tobias . . .”


“But I ask, humbly, that You spare my life. Punish me in some other way. Make me Your sex slave.”


Leila snorted. “Oh, God.”


“Make me do unspeakable things to You in the night. Force me to pleasure You whenever You desire. It’s a demanding job, but I’ll manage. My body is Yours to command.”


She succumbed to Her laughter, dropping Her sword and shaking Her head. “You absolute⁠—”


He shot his foot forward, kicking Her shin and collapsing Her. As She scrambled for Her sword, he grabbed Her by the wrists and pinned Her to the ground, a victorious grin on his lips.


“I win.”


“That doesn’t count,” She said.


“It absolutely counts.”


“You tricked Me.”


“It worked, didn’t it?”


His smile was infectious, and She sank beneath his weight. “How unfortunate. I rather liked your proposition.”


“We can negotiate terms.”


Tobias pressed his mouth to Hers, first light and tender, then deeper and yearning. She’d had the purest of intentions sparring with him, but Her mind wandered far from the task, overcome with base thoughts and luring comforts. They chuckled between kisses, and She struggled to recall another time She’d felt so wanted, so seen.


A throat cleared behind them. Sandaled feet stepped into view attached to crisp white harem pants, a cobalt tunic, and a grimace.


“Your Holiness,” Flynn said. “Your presence is required at the villa.”


The pair separated, and Tobias adjusted his pants while Leila raked Her fingers through Her hair. “For what purpose?” She asked.


“We have important news regarding Your army.” Flynn stood with his chest out and head high. “My father is tending to business matters, but I’m more than happy to deliver the details.”


News? Already? Leila scrambled to Her feet, dusting the grass from Her dress. “By all means, indulge us.”


“This is information best shared between You and me.” Flynn’s eyes narrowed, panning to Tobias. “Alone.”


“Anything you have to say can be shared with Tobias as well,” Leila said.


“The matter is sensitive.”


“As I stated⁠—”


“I’m obeying my father’s orders,” Flynn interrupted. “You understand, I’m sure.”


Leila forced back a scowl. Fucking Flynn. Tobias’s eyes had shrunken into slits, boring through Flynn as if he too were searching for the noble’s colors. With a grunt, he sheathed his sword. “I should check on Naomi. It’s about time for her tonics.”


The three of them shared uncomfortable nods before heading across the estate, first as a silent group, then parting ways. Leila walked at Flynn’s side as if Her arms and legs were wasters, barely yielding as She trod through the grass, up the hillside, then into the villa.


“Are you going to tell Me what this is about?”


Flynn was Her antithesis, casual and aloof, his hands limp in his pockets. “You should probably see it in person.”


“See what?”


He didn’t respond, his apathy prodding at Her insides. They reached their destination—his chamber with its garish mirror and massive painting of a muscular thoroughbred. He closed the door behind him before shooting toward his desk and pulling a long leather tube from his drawer.


“Our keeper found this tucked away with our records.” He took a seat on his bed, sliding an aged scroll from the leather tube. “No one else knows of it.”


Leila sat at his side, peering over the browned parchment as he unrolled it. The ink was faded, the edges brittle, but the image depicted sucked the air from Her lungs. Measured routes cutting through deserts, a barely legible legend in a language long abandoned, a circular wall in the center of the parchment—a perimeter. A cage.


“This is⁠—”


“A map of the royal fortress,” Flynn confirmed.


Leila leaned in closer, rubbing the map’s corner—like butterfly wings wearing away beneath Her fingers. “It’s ancient.”


“It’s hundreds of years old, I’m sure.”


Thousands, actually. She scanned the fuzzy lines and antiquated calligraphy—a depiction of Her home and prison, so very familiar, yet convoluted. Wrong.


“These are the traveling routes to the fortress.” Flynn pointed to a handful of strokes outside the wall, then another grouping nearer to the palace. “These are the most notable paths on the fortress grounds⁠—”


“I’m aware.” Leila’s eyes were on the outliers—dotted lines snaking across the page, cutting through the fortress wall and straight into the palace. “But what are these?”


“According to this map, they’re routes as well,” Flynn said.


“Through the fortress wall?”


“They must be alternate paths. Passages unknown to the public, hidden away.”


Leila’s heart seized, but She kept Her expression neutral. Hidden passages.


This was a map of the underground tunnels.


“This means we have access to the fortress,” Flynn said. “Once I’ve secured Your army, we can find these hidden routes and infiltrate. Reclaim Your palace.”


A thousand-plus-year-old map of the underground palace tunnels was tucked away within the Joseon villa. The map was vital to Her cause, a secret kept from The Savior Herself. Brontes had been using the tunnels, but how many of them? Did he know of the map’s existence? Did he have his own?


“How did you get this?” Leila asked.


“As I said, it was mixed among our records⁠—”


“No, I mean . . .” Leila shook Herself. “How did your family come to acquire this map? It must’ve been palace property at some point.”


Flynn smiled. “My family has been allies to the royal line for several generations. I assume it was a gift from Your forefathers. Your grandfather, perhaps. For protection, naturally.”


Leila bit the inside of Her cheek. The news was good, albeit complicated. She had a direct entrance to Her home, Her throne, Her crown. But the tunnels were hidden for a reason, and the Joseons knew of them. Who else?


“Thank you for sharing this with Me.”


“Anything for The One True Savior,” Flynn said.


He looked back at Her as if awaiting a response, then rolled the scroll, slipping it into its leather tube. Clearing his throat, he clapped twice, and a servant burst into the room, bowing before taking the tube.


Leila started, glancing between the servant and Flynn. “I don’t get to keep it?”


“Keep what?”


“The map, obviously.”


Flynn shrugged. “It’s from our records.”


“Yes. A dangerous map of My home.”


“I’m sure My father would be more than happy to discuss it with You.”


The servant bowed once more before closing the door behind her, and meanwhile a multitude of thoughts battled for Leila’s attention. Where was the map headed? How would She find it? Were the Joseon servants trained to listen for clapping across the villa? How easily would Flynn’s nose break beneath Her fist? She swallowed a growl, forcing Her violent thoughts aside. She wasn’t in Her Senate room, and Flynn wasn’t one of Her senators. He was an ally advancing Her cause, even funding Her reign, but the lack of control nipped at Her.


The silence between them broke beneath Flynn’s laughter. “Look at that sour face.” He nudged Her shoulder. “Come now. Smile! You’re one step closer to victory. You should be pleased.”


“I should be strategizing.”


“Leave that to the experts. A queen belongs on Her throne, not on the battlefield. And You’ve got an awful lot of experts at Your side. A fine place to find Yourself, if I do say so.” He winked. “I won’t let You down.”


“It’s My realm. It’s My duty.”


“Nonsense. You ride Yourself too hard. A woman like You deserves comfort and spoiling, not”—he waved his hand, gesturing at nothing in particular—“all this.”


Another man telling Her how to feel. It was banal, truly, and the least of Her concerns. That map still permeated the corners of Her mind—a way into Her fortress, Her utmost priority.


Flynn leaned back on his elbows. “You know, by royal decree, You and I are promised to one another.”


Leila chuckled. “Isn’t that mad?”


“Tobias forfeited the crown. Thus, I am⁠—”


“The Champion. I know.”


His stare was fixed, a bodice laced too tight and itchy at the seams. Leila picked at the folds of Her dress. “Fortunately for us, the tournament is miles away. We have the free will to decide our futures. You don’t want to be promised to Me. I don’t want to be promised to you. We can live our lives as we’ve intended.”


“I intended to be Champion,” Flynn said. “To take The Savior’s hand in marriage.”


“Cosima’s hand. You fought for her, not Me.”


“And had I known You were The Savior, I would’ve fought twice as hard. No, five times. Ten.”


Leila barked out a laugh, only to fall silent when She caught sight of Flynn. He was sound and still, his gaze unblinking.


“You’re not serious.”


“Is it so hard to believe a nobleman would find You desirable? If so, Your Artist isn’t tending to You properly.”


She hadn’t yet realized how near to Flynn She sat. Their hands were a whisper away, his sheer proximity enough to suffocate. She set Her jaw. “Stop it.”


“You’re of royal birth. I’m of titled birth. You’re The Savior. I’m the Champion. Hell, we’re already friends.”


“We’re not friends, Flynn.”


“Of course we are.” Flynn smiled. “We’ve had so many good times together.”


“Like when you offered up My cunt to Tobias as a parting gift?”


“I was only joking.”


Leila could’ve sworn the walls had crept closer, the room more tomb than chamber. “I choose Tobias. Each day, I choose him again and again. And one day, I’ll choose to marry him, to rule My realm with him, to make love to him⁠—”


“Wait.” Flynn let out a cynical laugh. “You haven’t fucked yet? God, see? This is what I mean. If You and I were together, I wouldn’t leave You pure for so long.”


“Is that supposed to appeal to Me?” Leila said. “You forcing your cock My way? Am I supposed to swoon?”


Flynn shrugged. “It’s a royal decree. The decision is already made.”


“Is there something you’re missing? Have you not been rejected by a woman before?”


“Certainly no woman of sound mind.”


Leila rolled Her eyes. “Because if a woman rejects you, she must be mad.”


“Exactly.”


Flynn’s shameless smirk mocked Her, steadfast and without a hint of irony. She straightened Her dress and stood. “I’m done here. For the sake of our alliance, we’ll pretend this never happened.”


“I want You.” Flynn trailed Her toward the door, hovering far too close for Her liking. “I won’t pretend that isn’t true.”


“For God’s sake, you want to be sovereign, that’s all.” She pressed a hand to his chest, and a brownish fog clouded Her touch—a muddy mess of filth and fire stirred with a wooden spoon, but the distinct lack of vibrancy was all She needed. “See?” Sighing, She dropped Her hand. “You’re not even attracted to Me.”


“Says who?”


“I’m the Savior. I know things.”


Flynn scoffed. “Clearly You don’t know much. Besides, my attraction for You is here.”


He planted Her hand against the bulge beneath his pants, and She ripped Herself free, slapping him across the mouth.


Her lungs heaved while Flynn massaged his jaw. “No need to be sensitive.” His voice lowered, nearly a growl. “I was playing.”


“I belong to Tobias,” Leila said. “He belongs to Me. You know this.”


“Where’s Your promise?”


“I don’t need a promise. Does My word hold no value to you?”


“Of course it does. You’re The Savior and my betrothed. Remember, we’re to be wed.”


She clenched Her jaw. “I said, stop it.”


“According to Thessian law⁠—”


“Fuck the law.” She leaned in close, hatred rippling beneath Her skin. “Let Me speak plainly. I don’t want you. Even if Tobias weren’t mine, I still wouldn’t want you. No matter the situation, the circumstance, or the bloody law, I will never, ever choose you, Flynn.”


Flynn’s throat flexed. “Calm Yourself. You’re being emotional.”


“And you’re being the ignorant ass I’ve always known you to be.”


A thunderclap echoed off the walls, and a sharp pain spiked through Leila’s face. She cupped Her cheek, gaping at Flynn. He stood like a soldier, hard and barricaded, and his hand was still raised, ready to strike again.


“I told You to calm Yourself,” he said.


Violence flickered in Her chest before it was snuffed in an instant. Vermillion billowed through the air, fresh blood born of untapped rage. Flynn loomed within its center, a vision of unabashed hatred, and the darkening of his eyes carried vicious intent. She’d seen that look before, knew it far too well. She wanted no part of it.


“I have to go,” She said.


“We’re not finished.”


He grabbed Her wrist, and his fingers burned as red fury surged from his touch. She winced beneath his grip, stifling a cry. “Let go of Me.”


Another hard smack, and Her knees buckled, Her feet doing a dizzy dance across the floor. Before She could right Herself, Flynn thrust Her against the wall, his forearm digging into Her throat.


“You’re mine,” he growled. “Do You understand? You owe me that much.”


She spat in his face, and he went rigid, eyes wider than She’d ever seen. He slammed Her against the wall, then grabbed Her arm and twisted it behind Her, nearly wrenching it out of place.


“We had an agreement.” Flynn snarled into Her ear, though She could barely see him. The red had become consuming, stinging Her eyes until tears streamed down Her cheeks. She wrestled within his grasp as he tightened his hold, his full frame pressed against Hers. “We had an agreement.”


Another blow to the jaw sent Her vision blaring white, the assault a wound to Her body and pride. She’d fought traitors like him before, had ended them swiftly, but as soon as Her sight cleared, She froze. Flynn was gone. Another man had taken his place, an eye-patch wrapping his skull and a crown nestled amid his curls, and instantly She was ten years younger, a child at his mercy. “I earned this.” She wasn’t sure who had spoken those words, Flynn or Her father, as the red around Her was undulating, filling the chamber with loathing. The creature before Her roared, and a spark of light swirled in Her chest, called to action.


Get out. It was the only order She could muster, the only instinct to take hold.


The room disappeared behind a blinding flash, and suddenly it wasn’t Flynn’s chamber anymore. She stood in another room entirely, with faded walls and a familiar bed dressed in stark white linens. Tobias sat at his desk snacking on olives.


“Leila,” he said. “I didn’t expect to see You so soon.”


You owe me that much. Flynn’s words repeated in Leila’s mind, taunting Her.


Tobias’s face dropped. “Leila?”


Breathe. She fought to steady Herself, willing Her hands into fists only for them to tremble at Her sides. In Her mind’s eye, vermillion still surged around Her, an ocean She’d nearly drowned in many times before. She closed Her eyes, but the color remained, and when She opened Her eyes, Tobias stood before Her, fear ripe in his gaze.


“What’s wrong?”



OceanofPDF.com

c1V
    
  


  


Contents


The Dungeon

1. Tobias

2. Leila

3. Tobias

4. Leila

5. Tobias

6. Leila

7. Tobias

8. Leila

9. Tobias

10. Leila

11. Tobias

The Dungeon

12. Leila

13. Tobias

14. Leila

15. Tobias

16. Leila

The Dungeon

17. Tobias

18. Leila

19. Tobias

20. Leila

21. Tobias

22. Leila

23. Tobias

24. Leila

25. Tobias

26. Leila

The Dungeon

27. Tobias

28. Leila

29. Tobias

30. Leila

31. Tobias

32. Leila

33. Tobias

34. Leila

35. Tobias

36. Leila

37. Tobias

What To Read Next

Author’s Note

Also by Jenna Moreci

About the Author



OceanofPDF.com

c1VS
    
  


  


Chapter 11

Tobias


“Leila?”


She stood across from Tobias, eyes wide and face drained of what little color it usually carried. Her lungs heaved, but She didn’t speak.


“Breathe, darling.” Tobias wrapped an arm around Her, guiding Her to his bed and taking a seat at Her side. “What happened?”


“Flynn.” She gazed ahead, transfixed on the nothingness. “He . . .”


“He what?”


Silence.


Tobias’s nerves spiked. He waited for Her to speak, each passing second fuel for the horrors polluting his mind. Taking Her hands, He forced his way into Her line of sight. “What did he do, Leila? What did he—?” He stopped himself, fighting for composure. “What did he do?”


“I’m so embarrassed.”


“Darling, no, please.” He pressed a hand to Her cheek only for Her to recoil from his touch. Faltering, he slowly, gently tucked Her hair behind Her ear, exposing Her jawline—swollen and red. His stomach roiled. “Did he hit You?”


“He wants to be Brontes.” Leila winced, then shook Herself. “He wants to be sovereign.”


“That won’t happen. I promise. It won’t.”


“He said I belong to him. He . . .” Life flickered back into Her gaze, and Her voice came out fast and unsteady. “I was just so thrown. I didn’t expect⁠—”


“He hurt You?”


“I shadow walked away. I didn’t know what else to do.” She held Her face in Her hands. “I’m so sorry.”


“Stop it. You did nothing wrong.”


“Everything’s ruined.”


“You did nothing wrong.” Tobias scooped Her into his arms, and She sank into him, Her fingernails raking his back. It was only then he noticed his wild heartbeat like a war drum in the thick of battle, and the tightness of his lungs, limited by his far too restricting rib cage. Something feral burned within him, a spark lighting the weeds that had sprouted in his hollowed chest.


A knock sounded at the door, and a servant wafted inside with a tray in her hands. “Sir, your meal.” She stopped short, eyes flitting from Tobias to Leila. “Apologies, I didn’t mean to intrude.”


Tobias glanced between the woman in the doorway and the one in his arms. “Leila, darling, are You all right?” Leila nodded against his neck. “Good. This woman is going to care for You for a moment.” He beckoned the servant closer, casting her a knowing gaze. “I’ll be back shortly.”


He kissed Leila’s forehead before heading off while the servant gazed back at him, confused. “Sir?”


He slammed the chamber door and charged down the corridor. The fire was spreading, crawling up his throat and blazing down his limbs, consuming everything dead and dry within him. As he quickened his stride, his heart matched his pace, coalescing with the primal roar in his belly. He’d known this beast before. He craved it.


A door appeared ahead, and he threw it open. Flynn stood in his chamber rifling through his desk, and he spun around when Tobias headed his way.


“Artist—”


Tobias pounded Flynn in the nose, collapsing him to the floor. Blood spattered the tiles and dotted his knuckles, a meager start to a long-coming end.


Clutching his face, Flynn scrambled to his feet. “What the hell?”


Tobias’s fist went flying, slamming Flynn in the mouth, the eye. Flynn stumbled across his chamber, crimson dripping from his lips. It wasn’t enough.


“Are you mad?” Flynn barked.


Tobias grabbed the front of Flynn’s tunic and lurched him close. “Who the fuck do you think you are?”


“I’m the Champion.” Flynn spoke through gritted teeth. “She’s mine.”


“She is not property to barter over. She is flesh and bone.” Tobias released Flynn with a shove, sending him staggering into a wall. “If She doesn’t want you, you hear Her, and you stand down.”


Flynn struck Tobias’s jaw, leaving behind a throbbing that faded into a beautiful numbness. Tobias dodged the next blow, wrenching Flynn by the tunic and punching him across the chin, using the red stain as a target. Flynn tumbled backward, and Tobias tossed him against the door, sending it swinging open and Flynn toppling into the corridor.


Servants shrieked and scattered, but Tobias was unfazed. Instinct had taken over, a brutality he’d been fighting for days, and for what purpose? Tobias grabbed Flynn by the roots of his hair and slammed his face into the wall, hoping the man’s bones would shatter against the surface. Flynn spun around, striking Tobias in the nose, his dark gaze ripe with rage.


“I won Her hand!” He spat blood onto the floor. “You’re common. You’re nothing.”


He swung and missed as Tobias darted out of the way, striking Flynn in the jaw. A jab landed in the pit of Tobias’s stomach, crumpling him to his knees, but he dragged Flynn down with him, the two men collapsing in a pile.


“You’re a fucking traitor,” Flynn spat.


Tobias pummeled him in the mouth. It was an act of God to silence the man’s heinous words, to wash his mouth with blood. He battered Flynn’s eye, sending his head cracking against the tiled floor, a melodic sound. Crimson coated Tobias’s fist and dripped from his split knuckles, a work of art. This, right here, was justice. This moment in its entirety was goodness.


“Tobias.”


The voice was a shadow fading into the back of his mind. Each blow landed harder, the ache of his knuckles a triumph, the swollen mess of Flynn’s socket a masterpiece. Flynn fought back at first, then eventually went limp, gasping and gurgling beneath Tobias’s onslaught. Another jab. Another. It was a glorious sight—the steady progression of death.


“Tobias.”


A hand gripped his shoulder. Raphael’s hand. Raphael’s voice. Tobias gritted his teeth. “I’ll fucking kill him⁠—”


“I’ve gathered the women,” Raphael said. “They’re in your chamber, and they’re safe. But they can hear everything.”


Tobias sucked in sharp, labored breaths. His ribs throbbed, his lungs surged, and a cool sweat dripped down his temples. The fire inside was still burning, but he was consumed by his overwrought body—particularly his fist hovering in the air, awaiting his command.


“He will wear these marks forever. And if you kill him, so will you.” Raphael dug his fingers into Tobias’s shoulder. “He is deserving, but not in front of them.”


Kill him. But his thoughts were overwhelmed with Leila, his mother and sister, their prying eyes and aghast faces—faces like those of the servants who circled him, gaping. His fist trembled, his warm, wet fingers digging into his palms, the desire for violence bubbling in his veins.


Tobias stood, leaving Flynn to moan on the tiled floor, a beaten mound of flesh.


“You’re not worth it.”


He trudged off, the probing stares of servants boring through him, leaving holes in his bruised body. Footsteps sounded in the distance, and Keene came into view, shoving through the horde. “What’s going on?” He glanced at Flynn being hoisted to his feet by servants, then to Tobias. “What did you do to my son?”


He grabbed Tobias by the shoulder, who ripped himself free, wiping his stained nose as he trod down the corridor. “What he deserved.”


“You filthy derelict!”


“Your son dared to attack Her Holiness!” Raphael said. “The ultimate blasphemy. The fact that his life was spared is proof of Her divine mercy.”


“Go on!” A weak voice shouted behind them, thick with blood. “Be a martyr.” Flynn stumbled across the floor, flashing red-stained teeth. “Take your commoners, and your widows, and your cripples⁠—”


Raphael spun on his heel and jabbed Flynn in the jaw, sending him staggering into the wall and sliding back to the floor. Shaking out his wrist, Raphael offered Tobias a nod. “I’ll gather our things.”


Keene stood among the servants, jaw slack in bewildered silence. Such a scene, and Tobias hadn’t the patience for it. He shouldered through the mass of people, stopping only once he’d reached his chamber. Four women sat before him—Leila, his mother, his sister, and that servant looking just as confused as when he’d left her. Their stricken gazes barely stung. He was getting used to the pain.


“We’re leaving.”





Tobias and the others left the villa in haste. Keene attempted to hassle Tobias the entire time, but Raphael kept him at a distance, spouting off about integrity, blasphemy, and other descriptors that meant little to Tobias. They packed their things, plus clothing and food that didn’t belong to them, and left without parting, using Leila’s shadow walking to take them deep into the Krios Woods to a clearing the royal guard had perhaps already searched and found fruitless. Occasionally Naomi or Tobias’s mother cooed some reassurance into Leila’s ear, and Raphael offered guidance that wasn’t requested, but otherwise the remainder of the day was silent.


Tobias washed his hands clean in a shallow pond. Flynn’s blood was a memory, but the fire hadn’t been snuffed. It was dormant, locked away in its usual cage, waiting to be unleashed another day. Tobias wasn’t quite sure whether that was good, or bad, or somewhere in between. All he knew was that Flynn deserved to die, and he relished the thought of it.


A month ago, he would’ve felt guilty. A part of him wished he were that man again, even if he couldn’t recognize him anymore.


Naomi whimpered. She was curled on her side, breathing through her teeth as she fought past her latest attack. Their mother had bundled her up in blankets that Naomi stripped away, claiming she felt suffocated, while Raphael prodded at the fire, simmering a pot of herbs that would hopefully lull Tobias’s sister to sleep. Night had fallen, and their meager group was splayed out around their campfire, their faces lit orange by the flames.


Tobias’s eyes panned between Leila, his mother, his sister. Hopelessness. Misery. Suffering. His fingers curled into fists, cracking open the scabs forming along his knuckles.


“She’ll be fine.” Raphael took a seat beside Tobias, resting his elbows on his knees. “Pain is intuitive. As soon as Naomi adjusts to the change, she’ll improve.”


Tobias ripped a clump of grass from its roots. Another cry tore through the air, and he tensed. “Her herbs are boiling. I should⁠—”


“I’ll get them.” Raphael’s hand was once again on Tobias’s shoulder. “Give Her some time. You’ll know when She’s ready.”


He cocked his head toward Leila, who had wandered to the edge of their camp, staring into the darkness. She’d sworn She was fine a thousand times over, but Tobias could see it in Her carriage, could feel it in the air between them.


She’s safe. In the midst of such melancholy, that was his only solace.


“Thank you,” Tobias said, avoiding Raphael’s gaze. “For what you did at the villa.”


Raphael looked back at him, frozen for a moment. Seconds passed before he headed off, leaving Tobias to fester and tear at the grass by his feet. After some bickering, Raphael coaxed Naomi to drink her herbs, and she promptly fell asleep, jerking and flinching every so often. His mother and Raphael were next to drift away, each curled up in woolen blankets, leaving behind Tobias, Leila, and the flickering campfire.


Leila had taken a seat on a fallen log across from him, staring deep into the flames. Her expression was vacant, a blankness She’d worn ever since they’d left the Joseon estate. Tobias glanced at the others—still asleep, tucked away in their blankets—and took a seat at Her side.


“Darling,” he whispered. “Is there anything You need?”


Her gaze flitted his way. “Hold Me?”


Tobias wrapped Her in his arms, and She rested Her head against his neck, easing into him without hesitation. The way She embraced him so readily was soothing. He wove his fingers through the long tendrils of Her hair, hoping his touch could have the same effect as Hers—that he could heal Her, could make Her feel whole.


“It’s all ruined.” Leila spoke against his throat, Her breath tickling his skin. “They were going to supply us with an army. They had plans to take back the fortress.”


“It’s ruined because of Flynn and his ego.”


“We were so close.”


“If we did it once, we can do it again.” Tobias took Her chin, meeting Her line of sight. “With better people. People who treat You with the respect You deserve.”


She swallowed but didn’t respond.


“Please don’t blame Yourself for this.”


“I don’t,” She said. “I know it’s not My fault. It’s just . . .” Sighing, Her eyes shied away, drawn to the fire. Tobias took in Her profile—the gentle slope of Her nose, the part of Her pillowy lips, and the ivory sheen of Her flesh. Any evidence of the attack had disappeared thanks to Her healing light, but he couldn’t shake the memory of Her swollen cheek.


“Does it still hurt?”


She cupped Her jaw, then tucked Her hand into Her lap. “A little.”


The campfire crackled and spat, flashing orange and yellow across Leila’s skin. The quiet between them was deafening, a cavern keeping them miles apart. He held his breath, hoping to reach across the grand expanse.


“You seem so far away.”


Leila let out a long exhale. “It all felt very . . . familiar.”


“I’m sorry. I never should’ve suggested we seek out Flynn.”


“You couldn’t have predicted this would happen.” She furrowed Her brow, lost in thought. “I’ve never seen him like that. So enraged. Not even in the tournament.”


The stars above disappeared. The night sky was a mass of black bricks sealing Tobias in, and the red embers of the campfire were Flynn’s blood coating the labyrinth floor.


“I should’ve let him die.” Tobias’s insides clenched, winding him up in rancor. “Back in the labyrinth, when he was stuck with that arrow. I should’ve left him there to rot. He would’ve never forced me to leave You. We would’ve never sought his aid in the first place. All that fuckery at his villa would’ve never happened.”


“I’m glad you did,” Leila said.


“Did what?”


“Saved him.”


“Why?” Tobias frowned. “Don’t tell me he deserves to live. You know he doesn’t.”


“It’s not that,” She said. “It’s just, during the tournament, when I saw you barrel into the sanctuary with him hanging from your shoulders . . . God, you were so worn and beaten. You saved a man you didn’t know when you could barely save yourself.” She looked him in the eyes, Her gaze brightening. “I’d never seen kindness like that. And it was in that moment I decided . . . maybe you were someone I’d like to know better.”


The slightest smile graced Her lips, releasing a fraction of the weight bearing down on his shoulders. A second later, the smile was gone, and Her eyes were once again on the fire.


“Are You sure You’re all right?” he asked. Leila nodded. “Still shaken, then?”


“A little, I suppose.”


“Want to tell me what’s on Your mind?”


Hanging Her head, She sighed. “We should’ve fucked when we had the chance.”


Tobias burst into laughter while Leila glared at him. “I’m serious! We had two chambers between us—two comfortable beds. Now we’re back in the woods.”


Tobias fought to calm himself, but his grin wasn’t so easily contained. “We won’t be in the woods forever.”


“I was so stupid. You were right there, naked as the day you were born. I should’ve pounced on the opportunity.”


“There will be other opportunities. I’m here by Your side for good.”


Leila offered another soft smile, though there was a hint of sadness behind it, something raw and unhealed. “He has a map of the fortress . . . and its hidden tunnels.”


Tobias started. “Hidden tunnels?”


“Beneath the palace, leading beyond the fortress wall. I only learned of their existence mere days before the Culmination. I didn’t know they were an escape from the palace until it was too late.”


Tobias’s mind turned, wrapping itself around the revelation. All those missing pieces from his own story, how he was in Leila’s bedchamber one moment, a dungeon the next—it all made sense.


“If they’re a way out, they’re also⁠—”


“A way in,” Leila confirmed.


The tiniest spark of hope lit within him. He raised an eyebrow. “Why does Flynn have that map?”


“I asked him the same question.” Leila let out a huff. “It’s long gone now. I’d suggest we shadow walk back to retrieve it, but he sent it off with a servant. We’d have to scour the entire villa. I wouldn’t know where to start.”


“It’s still good news,” Tobias said. “We have a way in.”


She was quiet for a long moment, immune to his attempt at optimism. “He said I was promised to him. That by law, I’m his.”


“You’re not. You belong to no one.”


His words seemed to offer little comfort as She stared off into the darkness. “I suppose he’s right. It’s sick, isn’t it? I’m claimed to be the most powerful person in Thessen, but come the Sovereign’s Tournament, I become legally bound to someone else. This whole realm, in all its glory and greatness . . . it’s not great at all. Not even a little.”


“I don’t care what the law says. You will take back Your crown, and You will rewrite it.”


She met his gaze and smiled. “We will rewrite it.”


Her warmth was palpable, a soft caress subduing his galvanized nerves. This was what he lived for—Her vibrance, Her laughter, the life She exuded each time She was happy.


I can make Her happy.


The feeling sank into his chest, filling him up. His purpose was to honor and love Her. He’d known it before, but never had it been so clear.


“Thessen will become great with You as its Savior.” Tobias took Leila’s hands, pulling Her closer. “And I promise to stand by You through it all. To fight with You and love You no matter the monsters that come our way.” His throat caught. “I promise myself to You for the rest of my days, if that’s what You desire.”


Leila chuckled. “You know full well I desire You plenty.”


“No, Leila, I mean I promise myself to You”—he dug through his pocket—“if that’s what You desire.”


He held the red ribbon before Leila, and She froze.


“Oh My God,” She whispered.


“We found one another despite the worst of odds. And this?” He entwined his fingers with Hers. “We fit together, You and I. When I’m with You, I’m stronger. A better man. And all I want is to make You feel the same, however I can.”


“This isn’t because of Flynn, is it?”


“No, Leila. It’s because of You. Of us.” Every impulse within him fired off, an amalgamation of too many emotions. “These are uncertain times, but the one thing I’m certain of is that I love You, and I want to spend the rest of my life with You at my side . . . if You’ll have me.”


His heart thrummed in his throat while Leila’s silence ate away at him, gnawing on his pride. Finally, Her glistening gaze met his.


“I promise.”


He pressed his lips to Hers, grinning before deepening the kiss. Joy filled the space between them, escaping them in laughter and gasping breaths, in their hands winding up each other’s backs and through their hair before linking together, holding tight.


“What are you waiting for?” Leila pulled away. “Cut it.”


She jutted Her arm forward, eager in a way that made his chest swell. He unsheathed his blade, then pulled the ribbon taut, looking Leila in the eyes.


“Built of the same matter,” they spoke in unison. “Divided by birth. Rejoined by love.”


He sawed at the ribbon, splitting it in half, and Leila let out a gasp as if She could feel it in Her bones. Taking Her wrist, he tied Her half into a sweet bow, and She followed in kind, wrapping his wrist in red. Goose bumps rippled across his skin, but still they spoke together line for line, word for word.


“For now, we are two. But with this promise, in time . . .”


One final knot, and a bow sat against his flesh, bright and bold. A promise for a better future.


A life with Leila.


“We will unite as one.”



OceanofPDF.com

c20G
    
  


  


The Dungeon

“Where is She?”


Tobias hung limp in his shackles, wrists worn raw and toes scraping the dirt floor. Hot blood burned his nostrils and trailed from lines of fire slashing his back. He breathed through short, shallow hics, snorting a geyser of crimson as he swayed from his chains.


“When you were discovered, there was no one else for miles,” Brontes said. “Not in the woods. Not in the nearest villages.”


He paced the cell, each step slow, comfortable. His red-streaked knuckles were folded behind his back, a leather whip tied to his belt. Not a single part of him wavered, but he was afraid. The line of soldiers behind him, a shadow perpetually lingering over his shoulder, made that clear.


“She abandoned you.” Brontes stopped, meeting Tobias’s gaze. “Discarded you like waste. It was only a matter of time. It’s in Her nature.”


Tobias’s lungs ached. He attempted to fill them, but pain spiked through his chest in every direction. He winced after each cough, groaning as he curled into himself. He had a broken rib, maybe two.


“She deserted you, and still you protect Her?” Brontes leaned close, peering at Tobias with his one good eye. “You’d rather die than betray the woman who left you to rot?”


Tobias braced himself. He knew how his silence would be rewarded. Brontes landed another blow to his temple, and his brain rattled, his sight dotted with flashing white light.


Leila.


Brontes grabbed him by the chin, forcing Tobias to look him in the eye. “I tell you where to find Her, then what?” Tobias said. He hacked and choked, blood sputtering from his split lips. “You kill Her, and the realm dies along with everyone in it. Seems I’m fucked no matter what I do.”


“I can make your end quick, or very, very slow.”


Dark curls flecked with grey, a black patch covering his left eye—Brontes was such a familiar monster, a vision etched in Tobias’s brain. Still, something about his gaze was different. Weaker.


“Where is She?”


Tobias vibrated in his shackles, each ache and pang clawing at him, an endless torture long after the beatings had ceased.


Brontes watched him for a long while, then glanced over his shoulder. “Warden.”


Armor clanked as the soldiers parted, creating a clear path toward Tobias. Silence swept the air, then disappeared, as heavy footsteps sent tremors across the dirt. A mountain of a man appeared from the shadows, his bare chest marred with cavernous lesions, his head covered in a black leather mask. Tobias knew the man, had felt the agony of his wrath in the Sovereign’s Tournament and fought him in his nightmares ever since. How fitting to see him again here.


The chains went slack, and Tobias collapsed, head ricocheting against the floor. Darkness cloaked his sight as bear-like paws lurched him upright, reawakening the pain splintering through his body. He was sitting in something—a wooden chair—and his limbs were being tied down with rope.


Panting, he blinked past his haze. The sovereign stood before him alongside the hulking man, whose grey eyes peered down at Tobias from miles away. He held a blade small enough to get lost in his fist.


“Start with his fingers,” Brontes said. “We’ll move to his feet after.”


Tobias strained against his bindings and dug his nails into his palms, a futile effort. Dropping to one knee, the masked man pried Tobias’s fingers apart without effort, his blade waiting.


“You chose this.” Brontes hovered over Tobias, his voice even and unfeeling. “This is your doing.”


Tobias bit down on his lip, fighting against his mounting panic. Brontes turned to the masked man.


“Begin.”


Tobias screamed as the blade dug into his nail bed, separating flesh from bone.



OceanofPDF.com

c21G
    
  


  


Chapter 12

Leila


Ahard chest expanded against Leila’s back, then released. Voices murmured, but She kept Her eyes closed, relishing the heat of Tobias’s body and the weight of his arm slung over Her waist. She didn’t want to wake, as the day was tainted before it had begun, and the night had been so beautiful. If She could exist in that moment, hold onto it until sunset, maybe the ugliness of the morn wouldn’t rear its head.


Tobias groaned, stirring to life. He wrapped Her tight, pressing Her against him as he stretched, and it felt like a look into Her future.


A life with him.


A gasp sent Leila’s eyes shooting open.


“Their wrists!” Naomi planted a hand over her mouth. “Their wrists!”


She pointed at them—and their matching red ribbons—and the others stopped what they were doing. Raphael sat on the fallen log, arm frozen mid-poke as he rotated something dead over the fire. Yucana waited at her daughter’s side, surprise alive in her wide eyes. Flushing, Leila bolted upright, combing Her hair into proper place while Tobias lazily followed suit, yawning behind his arm.


A smile sent dimples springing into Raphael’s cheeks. “I see congratulations are in order.”


“Oh, how wonderful!” Naomi clasped her hands beneath her chin. “It’s meant to be. I mean, I personally don’t believe in the fates, but if ever there was a fated pairing, it’s you two.”


Yucana smiled like the rest of them, though something about it was strained. “Congratulations. You must be overjoyed.”


“Well, that’s certainly enough to brighten the morning, isn’t it?” Naomi said.


A darkness hovered over Leila—the void in Yucana’s eyes, the lingering feeling of Flynn’s hands on Her flesh. This fucking day. Her muddled thoughts blustered, a rainstorm She couldn’t quite contain. “Excuse Me.”


She headed into the woods, walking toward nothing at all. Getting away was Her only aim, and She was certain She looked a fool because of it. No axe to chop wood, no gourd to fill. She was escaping, and everyone knew it. But how could She escape a feeling?


She stopped in a clearing long trampled by something—deer, perhaps something larger and more formidable. Closing Her eyes, She sucked in long, deep breaths. The promise was tight on Her wrist, and She trailed Her fingertips over it, smiling. Then the storm within thundered, washing Her in grey.


Tentative footsteps crunched behind Her. She didn’t need to see him to know it was Tobias, but She turned to him anyway, and his probing gaze fractured Her already brittle heart.


“You seem upset.” His eyes panned to Her wrist. “Are You regretting . . . ?”


“No, no, not at all,” She said. “I’m so happy.”


“Except . . . ?”


Sighing, She looked away. “Today is Cosima’s birthday. Normally we’d have a grand feast. Servants would weave rosebuds into her hair, and we’d spend the evening dancing.” Lightning struck within Her, and She wound Her hands into fists. “But now she’s back at My palace, sitting in My throne, and fucking My father, and I’m out here in the woods running away from it all.”


Tobias’s arms slinked around Her waist. “I’m so sorry, darling.” He started. “She’s fucking Brontes?”


“It’s disheartening, is all. Having to move backward, while she’s . . .” Her eyes drifted to the surrounding woods, Her mind traveling with them. Visions She’d long fought plagued Her—Her father and sister destroying Her realm, Her family, Her sanity. She bit down on Her lip, willing the pain to distract Her from the heartbreak.


Tobias’s deep voice pulled Her from Her nightmares. “No one should ever betray their family in such a way. You deserve better.”


She took his hand and pressed a kiss to its palm, then held up Her wrist, letting the ribbon shine beneath the sunlight. “This is the only thing that’s made Me smile today.”


“That’s the solution, then. We should cover You in promises.”


Leila chuckled. “Stop.”


“We’ll wrap You up like a package. How about it?”


She pulled him into a hug, resting Her head against the curve of his neck. Tobias leaned toward Her ear and whispered, “United as one, darling.”


She closed Her eyes, clinging to the contentment he provided, but Her worries returned. “Tobias, do you think your mother . . . doesn’t like Me?”


Tobias wrinkled his nose. “Why wouldn’t she like You?”


“I don’t know, I just have a feeling.”


“Leila, of course she likes You. What’s not to like? You’re smart. You’re kind. You have the most beautiful breasts.”


“I don’t think your mother cares about My breasts.”


“Well, she should,” he scoffed.


She was laughing again. It was effortless, the ease of his company. Standing on Her toes, She left him with a long, lingering kiss, the kind that promised tantalizing exploits in the not-too-distant future. A silly grin spread across his face, and She beamed with pride.


They returned to camp with a bundle of dry sticks, as if that was the purpose of their absence. The others didn’t seem to care either way. Naomi was massaging her gaunt calves while Yucana sliced parsnips, eyes heavy from lack of sleep. Raphael hovered over the campfire, stirring a boiling pot—herbs for Naomi, though when he’d learned the recipe, Leila hadn’t a clue. He looked up from his work and lurched to his feet. “I hate to ruin the mood⁠—”


“Oh, but you’re so good at it,” Naomi teased.


“You know, I’m trying really hard here⁠—”


“Enough, both of you.” Tobias turned to Raphael. “Say your piece.”


Raphael sat straighter. “The Joseons and all their connections are off the table. And we’re here. In the Krios Woods. Again.”


Naomi rolled her eyes. “We’re aware.”


Tobias shot his sister a cross look. “I think what Raph is trying to say is, what now?”


“Precisely.” Raphael bit the inside of his cheek, chin in hand. “I still think Trogolia is our best option, alliance-wise. They’re the most unexpected choice, not to mention as short a trek as we can hope for.”


“Didn’t you say soldiers are patrolling the borders?” Yucana said. “How will we manage passage if that’s the case?”


“And Brontes has sent heralds to all the ally realms.” Tobias’s expression was grim, his tone the same. “Even if we did manage a way over, their cohorts might kill us as soon as we step foot on Trogolian soil.”


“There has to be something,” Naomi said.


Not a single person responded. Leila had expected as much, but the quiet pounded against Her eardrums.


Raphael’s chestnut gaze panned Her way. “Leila?”


Silence surrounded Her, as did wanting eyes too searing to look at. Grounding Herself, She held Her breath. They stood in the center of the downpour, fighting for dry land only She could provide. This was Her realm and Her burden to bear.


She wanted to curse Herself. Shouldn’t a queen be accustomed to sacrifice—born for it, as if duty were innate in Her very being? She should be brave in the face of hardship, steadfast against danger, ready and quick to exhaust Her coin and rations and allies.


Leila straightened. “Delphi.”


“Delphi?” Tobias said.


“I’m meeting with her tonight,” She said. “There’s likely a new development. Something’s bound to be of use to us. At the very least, it will point us in the right direction.”


“This is the woman You’ve been meeting at sunset?” Yucana asked.


“My sister, yes. She’s still in the palace watching My father, reporting Her findings.”


“And You’re certain we can trust her?”


The question slapped Leila across the cheek. She blinked. “Of course. She’s My sister.”


Yucana was quiet for a while, lips pursed as her thoughts turned behind her eyes. “With all due respect, the woman who betrayed You . . . she was Your sister as well, yes?”


Lightning crackled within Leila, simmering beneath the surface. “I trust Delphi with My life.”


“Delphi was one of my greatest allies during the tournament,” Tobias said. “I’m certain I wouldn’t have survived without her. We can count on her word.”


Yucana nodded. “A mother’s worry can be far too great at times.” She turned to Leila, offering a weak smile. “I simply aim to protect my children.”


The storm within Leila churned, but She kept Her ire contained. Tobias squeezed Her leg, ever assuring, though She could’ve sworn his eyes carried the same concern bubbling in Her gut.


“You meet Delphi at sunset?” Raphael asked.


“Yes.”


“And until then?”


There were five minds between them, and zero solutions. No path was safe, so Leila abandoned the notion. If risk was inevitable, She’d embrace it.


“We head toward Trogolia.”


Tension swept through the campsite like a warm breeze. There was plenty to dread, after all. The choice She had made was a terrible one.


It was also the only one.


“We fare northeast,” Raphael said.





Leila was first to reach the watchtower. She was far too early, it seemed. It was so hard to gauge the time when journeying across the realm, as it seemed the sun raced toward the horizon alongside Her trotting horse. Her nerves pinched, and anxious energy prickled beneath Her skin. Calm was a stranger, and the ache of Her tired bones couldn’t distract Her spinning mind.


Grey swirled through the air like watered-down ink, and Delphi materialized, hood overhead and cloak clasped at her neck.


“There you are.” Exhaling, Leila threw Her arms around Her sister. She reveled in Delphi’s familiar warmth and the tickle of her braids against Her cheek, until the thick scent of grime filled Her nostrils. Leila wrinkled Her nose. “What’s that smell?”


“The must. It’s not as though anyone uses this tower any longer.” Delphi pulled away and eyed Leila over, stopping hard at the flash of red on Her wrist. “Excuse me?”


“We’re promised.”


“I can see that.” Delphi took Leila’s hand, admiring the ribbon up close. “Incredible. This is all my doing, You know. You ought to thank me. Don’t ever say I don’t know my sister. I found You Your true love, after all. How thrilled are You? Tell me.”


Leila met Her sister’s smile, but it waned soon after. “I haven’t forgotten what today is.”


“Don’t think of it. It’ll only sour Your happiness.”


Leila couldn’t fight Her scowl. Flynn, Cosima, the Krios Woods—She was buried beneath it all, struggling to sift through the convoluted mess. “God, I have so much to tell you.” She shook Her head, fighting to clear Her mind. “There just isn’t the time. I’m so sorry.”


“I know, Leila. I am too.”


“Do you have news for Me?”


Delphi’s frown extinguished any hope before it could fully take shape. “Increased military surveillance.”


“Again?”


“Substantially.”


Pacing the tower, Leila massaged Her temples. “Fuck.”


“I suppose it’s a good thing You’ve taken refuge at Flynn’s estate.”


“We left.”


“But—?”


“Another time,” Leila said.


Delphi let out a cross sigh. “Well, the guard is canvasing the entire realm, patrolling all borders. And Your little exploits haven’t exactly helped the matter.” Her frown returned, though it had become condemning. “Four full units of the royal guard, slaughtered. I understand You need to protect Yourself, but You’re leaving a trail of bodies, and it’s only drawing greater attention.”


“Wait.” Leila stopped short. “Did you say four?”


“Yes, Leila. I told You, You need to be more careful.”


“We’ve only killed one unit.”


“Well, according to Your father⁠—”


“He’s lying.” Leila’s voice climbed higher. “To demonize Me, or Tobias. Whatever the reason, it isn’t true.”


“This isn’t some tale he’s sharing with the masses. He’s speaking it in close quarters among his allies. What purpose does it serve for him to lie?”


None whatsoever, which didn’t make any sense at all. Leila folded Her arms. “Well, someone else is to blame, but it isn’t Me.”


“Have You kept a close eye on Tobias?”


“You think he’s sneaking off into the night to go on murderous rampages? God, Delphi. Be reasonable.”


Frustration nipped at Her, polluting Her already dark thoughts. This wasn’t how their meeting was supposed to go. Four units were dead, and She hadn’t a single explanation.


Delphi’s gaze softened. “I wish I had something good to share with You. Something besides . . . all this.”


Leila sighed. “I know. I’m just glad you’re here. I’ve missed you so much.” She pulled Delphi into another hug.


The scent of hot grime grew stronger, overpowering even, particularly with Her nose hovering right next to Delphi.


“The smell . . . it’s you.” Leila sniffed Her sister and recoiled at the thick stench of sweat and dirt. “You stink!”


“You’re one to talk,” Delphi scoffed, gesturing at Leila’s ensemble. “Looks as though You’ve brought half the woods with You.”


Undeterred, Leila examined Delphi’s palms—rough and blackened. “Your hands are filthy.” She eyed Her sister’s statuesque figure, her tight braids, her pale blue dress. “This dress . . . you wore it the last time I saw you, and the time before that.”


“So, now I can’t wear a dress more than once?”


“What’s going on?”


“You’re a snobbish bitch, that’s what.”


“Tell Me,” Leila barked. “Now.”


The severity in Leila’s tone sent Delphi to silence, and something foreign swept her gaze.


Fear.


A chill skittered across Leila’s flesh. She hadn’t seen that look since their mother passed.


“I’ve had to make myself scarce. Avoid Brontes’s sight.” Delphi stood strong and proud, though her eyes betrayed her. “It’s the best way to protect myself. To aid in Your endeavors. Our endeavors.”


“What are you saying?”


Delphi froze for a beat before finding her voice. “I’ve been living in the tunnels.”


The words were a battering ram to Leila’s gut. Brontes’s wretched tunnels—nothing but dirt and darkness—were a sanctuary, a home for Her sister.


“It keeps me hidden,” Delphi continued. “Brontes is none the wiser⁠—”


“This whole time?”


“I’ve been able to travel them. Learn their paths. And when Brontes shows, I simply keep my distance. Shadow walk away if need be.” Delphi came in close. “I follow him when I can, eavesdrop on his meetings. Hylas acts as my eyes and ears within the palace.”


Shame burrowed into Leila’s stomach. Growling, She marched toward the tower portal and knocked four times.


“What are You doing?” Delphi said. Leila knocked again, pounding this time, and Her sister scowled. “Stop that!”


The pitter-patter of footsteps echoed up the stairwell, and Hylas emerged, sweat dampening his brow. “Is everything⁠—?”


“When were you planning to tell Me My sister has been living underground for the past few weeks?” Leila spat.


Hylas’s face dropped, eyes flitting between the two women. “She swore me to secrecy. I didn’t want⁠—”


“God, this is madness.” Leila flung Her hands into the air, then spun toward Delphi. “How do you sleep? How do you eat?”


“Hylas has been a great confidant.” Delphi flashed him a glare. “Until now.”


Leila ground Her teeth. Her heart and lungs surged far too quickly, overpowered and ignited, but Her mind, for once, was clear.


“I’m getting you out of here.”


Delphi sighed. “Leila⁠—”


“I don’t care about Brontes, or his meetings, or his fucking guard. It isn’t safe for you here. You need to leave.”


“I can’t⁠—”


“You will.” Leila’s voice boomed. “I’ve lost both My mothers, a father, and a sister. I’m not losing anyone else.”


Hylas and Delphi stood side-by-side, glancing at one another sheepishly. “What about the others?” Delphi turned to Leila. “Your loyal staff?”


“How are they faring?”


Their silence spoke for them. Hylas cleared his throat. “Everyone is under close watch. Some dissenters have already been . . .”


His voice trailed off, but the implication was blatant. “Oh My God.” Leila’s eyes shot wide. “Pippa? Oh God, is she⁠—?”


“She’s fine,” Delphi said.


“Is she living in the tunnels with you?”


Delphi sighed. “Leila, no.”


“Then who is looking out for her?”


“She’s perfectly safe, same as Your favored four. You’re distressed for little reason⁠—”


“You just told Me dissenters are being killed.” The word killed caught in Leila’s throat. “How am I to react to that?” She turned to Hylas. “You. Tell Me the truth.”


“The palace is flooded with soldiers. Little goes unnoticed.” Hylas wasn’t as easily contained, disquiet alive in his wide eyes and shifting feet. “The sovereign goes nowhere without personal guards. He questions everyone’s loyalty, including mine. I fear in time he’ll learn of these meetings.”


Hopelessness slinked through the air, floating in green wisps from Hylas’s trembling form and tasting sour on Leila’s tongue. The meeting was supposed to bring promise, yet here She stood grappling another impossibility, a weight pinning down both Her command and Her heart.


Taking a deep breath, She squared Her shoulders. My realm. My burden. She’d been right about that, if nothing else. And perhaps if being a queen hadn’t come innately, She’d have to adapt.


“You’re leaving,” She said. “All of you.”


“There are too many of us,” Delphi cooed as if placating a child. “If we take to the tunnels, Brontes will easily track us⁠—”


“You’re not taking the tunnels,” Leila said. “I’m getting you out of here.”


Delphi went still, as if Leila’s words had stunned her. “You are?” Delphi balked. “No, Leila. Absolutely not.”


“I’ve made up My mind.”


“You’ve got a war to fight. You put Yourself at risk⁠—”


“Fuck the risk. You’re My sister. Do you understand? None of this matters without you. Both of you.” Leila scooped up Delphi’s hands. “You’ve helped Me so much. It’s My turn now. Let Me do this.”


Her tone was neither desperate nor pleading. She was issuing an order, a decision made and written in blood. Perhaps Delphi and Hylas knew this, or perhaps they knew She was right—that despite their efforts, they were doomed to die in the palace, mere casualties of war. The reality nearly sent a shudder rolling through Leila, but She forced Herself still. Delphi and Hylas shared one last glance, their resolve crumbling before Her.


“All right,” Delphi said.


Victory swelled in Leila’s chest. “I’ll discuss this with Tobias. We’ll formulate a plan.” She turned to Hylas. “Tell the staff to hold tight and be on guard. Escape is coming soon.”


“To where?” Delphi said. “You can’t have dozens of servants on the run with You.”


“Leave that up to Me.”


“But—”


“I’ll take care of it. Trust Me.”


Another strained silence lingered, then Delphi nodded.


“We’ll meet at our usual time to finalize the details,” Leila said. “Until then⁠—”


“Stay safe. We know.” Delphi raised an eyebrow. “You had better be listening to Your own advice.”


The grey hem of Delphi’s dress and the dirt speckling her cloak screamed at Leila, along with every other blatant sign of neglect. Had they always been there? Had She been too distracted to notice?


“God, living in the tunnels.” Leila pinched the bridge of Her nose. “No more of this stupidity, do you hear Me?”


“Yes, Mummy.”


Delphi’s smirk snuffed a small part of Leila’s guilt, and they shared one final hug for the evening, a lingering embrace that ended far too quickly. After blessing both Her sister and Hylas, Her light cut through Her, a million hot blades plunging through Her flesh, cooled only by the night air of the Krios Woods.


Their new campsite was settled. A fire was dying beneath blackened wood, and blankets wrapped overworked bodies. Naomi, Yucana, and Raphael were tucked away, either asleep or attempting as much. Tobias was perched atop a moss-covered boulder, eyes scanning the tree line before locking onto Leila.


“Well?” He headed Her way. “What did she say?”


His gaze was riddled with hope and fantasy—with everything She’d promised yet couldn’t provide. She tasted the words in Her mouth, getting a feel for them. My realm. My burden.


“We have a problem.”



OceanofPDF.com

c279
    
  


  


Chapter 13

Tobias


“Our next step is a rescue?”


His mother’s words were level, but her furrowed brow revealed her doubt. Tobias couldn’t blame her. The five of them could barely rescue themselves. How were they going to rescue countless others?


He and Leila had discussed the dilemma through the night, grappling with the insanity of it all. More soldiers patrolling the realm. Servants killed for dissenting. But Leila had risked Her life to save Tobias’s family, and he wasn’t about to falter when Hers was on the line. It was an impossible mission, but it was necessary. Whether the others could be convinced was another issue entirely.


Raphael shook his head. “I’m sorry, how many people do we have to rescue?”


They circled the blackened wood of their firepit, all eyes on Leila. She sat poised, but Her shoulders were stiff. “A lot.”


“That’s not very specific,” Raphael said.


“The staff who remain loyal to The Savior. Who reject Brontes’s plan and thus fear for their lives.”


“And that’s how many people?”


“She said a lot,” Tobias cut in.


Raphael pursed his lips. “Fine. We rescue a lot of people. Then what?” He gestured to the brush around them. “Are they supposed to caravan with us through the woods? Because hiding five people is hard enough, let alone twenty.”


“It’s definitely more than twenty,” Leila said.


“More than twenty?”


“This isn’t up for negotiation,” Tobias asserted. “Their lives are in danger, they need our help, so we’re saving them. End of discussion.”


“These are My friends. My family.” Leila scanned the group with a fervent gaze. “Delphi, Pippa, Mousumi, Hylas⁠—”


“Who’s Hylas?” Raphael asked.


“The point is, they matter. I’m not leaving them to die.”


Raphael opened his mouth to speak, then stopped short, grumbling something under his breath. “All right then. What do we do with them?”


“We find a place for them to hide,” Leila said. “Somewhere safe.”


“If we knew of a safe place to hide, wouldn’t we be hiding there currently?”


“It’s two birds with one stone.” Tobias spoke over Raphael. “We find a safe space for all of us.”


His stern tone had silenced the opposition for the moment. Meanwhile his mother and sister glanced at one another, then at Tobias, visibly apprehensive.


“And the army?” his mother said.


“On hold until then.”


Leila’s carriage remained tall, but the waver in Her words wasn’t lost on Tobias. A voice inside urged him to take Her hand and ease Her worries, but he resisted. She was a queen, and comfort would only demean Her title. Perhaps the longing was in part for him. Their entire journey, however well-intentioned, had been riddled with disaster. What were the odds this task wouldn’t be more of the same?


Naomi ended the silence, picking at her dress much like Leila always seemed to. “So . . . what now?”


Leila stewed on the question, biting Her bottom lip. She turned to Raphael. “How close are we to the nearest town?”


“About five days’ travel if we’re consistent.”


“We don’t have that sort of time.”


“Is shadow walking a possibility?” Tobias’s mother asked.


The group fell silent. Tobias was out of his depth venturing through a part of the realm he’d never been to before, and his mother and sister were surely the same. Before his mind could dip into dark places, Raphael spoke. “If You bless me, I can get us nearer to civilization,” he said. “I’ll use the route I traveled when searching for You as a guide. It’ll take us off course to Trogolia⁠—”


“Which is fine.” Tobias shot a warning glare Raphael’s way.


“And once we’re in town?” Naomi asked.


“You’re not going into town,” Tobias said. “None of you are.”


Leila’s face fell. “Tobias . . .”


She knew what he was going to say; it was etched across Her knitted brow, but he had already made up his mind.


“I’m going,” he said.


Groaning, Raphael rolled his eyes. “God, this again.”


“You can’t defend yourself.” Tobias turned to his mother and sister. “Neither can you.” He glanced at Leila. “And You’re, well . . .”


“The Savior, I know.”


“I’ll assess the conditions. See what our options are. And if someone recognizes me, I’ll handle it.”


Quiet hung over the campsite, unsettling in its familiarity. Had death and danger already become so predictable?


Leila straightened, nodding as if to convince Herself. “It’s a good plan. Tobias can find us a proper place to stay.”


“There has to be an inn or something,” Naomi said.


Raphael’s eyebrow winged up. “An inn that won’t recognize The Savior? That can take in well over twenty occupants?”


“Yes. That exact inn. Glad we’re on the same page.” Tobias stood and wiped the dirt from his ass. “Let’s go.”


He turned on his heel, eager to abandon the conversation and stares. Another journey to a town he’d never been to with people he’d never met and perils he couldn’t prepare for. Perhaps he should’ve been frightened, but he had become accustomed to a life teetering on the edge, always one second away from falling.


A soft hand pressed against the center of his back. “Thank you,” Leila whispered.


Her eyes were that sharp amber color he’d first become acquainted with, glittering despite the cover of shadows. “It’ll be fine.” He couldn’t help but smile. “Let’s get Your sisters back.”


The darkness of his thoughts vanished once She squeezed his hand, then reappeared the moment Her touch slipped away. As She walked off, Tobias called out, “Should I be jealous of this . . . Hylas?”


Her melodic laughter fueled his grin before the task ahead set in. He dug through his scant belongings, packing his satchel and sheathing his sword while Raphael gathered their blankets nearby.


“Quit being such an ass.” Tobias slugged Raphael’s arm. “You’re making it hard for me to have your back.”


Raphael started. “You have my back?”


“Not for long.”


He threw his cloak around his shoulders and headed for their horses, tossing his satchel across the rear of his stallion. His fingers worked unconsciously, looping knots and tightening buckles, but his mind was already traveling the path ahead. Brontes had increased patrol throughout the whole of the realm. No matter where they headed, Tobias was at risk.


By the end of the day, he’d either have a roof over his head or a spear in his back.





“You’re sure?”


The echo of Leila’s words gnawed at Tobias’s brain. No, he wasn’t sure. No, everything wouldn’t be all right. Well, She would be all right. But Tobias? That was up for debate. Regardless, after Raphael shadow walked them closer to the populace, leaving Leila and the others in the woods was the right answer. They needed the cover. He, on the other hand, could venture into town. If he died, it didn’t matter.


He’d ridden for three miles before reaching any sign of people. Raphael’s directions had been annoyingly precise, and when the red brick walls and clay tiled roofs peeked over the tree line, Tobias’s muscles strained. He pulled his olive hood overhead and situated his cowl over his face. This should be easy. He’d done it before. Never mind that the town was unknown to him, that sound and activity had become alien at some point after the pool. Setting his jaw, he nudged his horse forward, engulfing himself in a new, foreign world.


He trotted down the street, passing draped riders atop spitting camels and donkeys pulling carts of wheat. The sun’s rays beat down on him, but it was the occasional glance in his direction that burned, a soldering iron against his flesh. An inn—that was his objective, the only logical solution amid a slew of impossibilities. Even then, how would he go unnoticed? How would Leila, let alone Her staff? He swallowed the thought, a worry for later. He scanned the shopfronts, searching for a watering hole, for levels and stories. Find an inn—humble and unassuming, a place for them to disappear.


A steed whinnied in the distance, followed by the familiar clinking of metal plates. An armored patrol mounted on horseback appeared through the summer heat, a spear at each soldier’s side, swords strapped to their backs. Tobias tightened his grip, steering his stallion to the nearest hitching post. Traveling on foot was more discreet, and he knotted the reins as the patrol clattered by, his head low and body braced. The sound faded behind the din of voices, and he rested his hand on the hilt of his sword before continuing his trek.


Babies screamed in their mothers’ arms while traders grunted beneath the goods hoisted on their backs. Tobias split his attention between the shopfronts and the surrounding people, the brown faces shining with sweat, the dark eyes racked with fear. He’d felt tension back at the capital, but something was different, bubbling beneath the surface, barely contained. Two women in blue Ethyuan robes spoke beneath their shawls, their smooth accents punctuated by anxiety.


“An absolute beast. He’s going to kill Her.” The woman recited a prayer under her breath. “Once the crops begin to die, we’ll know the deed’s done.”


“It’s madness, all of this.” The other woman shook her head. “I never trusted him. Not from the start.”


Red and silver flashed in the distance—a second unit, on foot—and Tobias cut down an alleyway, swerving between baskets of grain and pressing his back to the wall. He watched from a distance as the soldiers passed, then gazed at the chipped plaster in front of him streaked with bird droppings and littered with placards:


TOBIAS KAYA


FUGITIVE


Transgressions include abduction of The One True Savior, treason, larceny, blasphemy, and murder


A sizeable reward to the person who apprehends him, dead or alive


Shouting rang through the air. Four of the soldiers had drawn their swords, forcing back a fast-forming crowd, while a fifth clutched the collar of a scrambling man with long brown waves tumbling down his face.


“My name is A-Aharon Zigel,” the man stammered, hands raised in surrender. “I’m just a shop hand.”


“You bear a striking resemblance to the Artist,” the soldier spat.


An older man shoved his way through the crowd. “My son is no traitor!”


“Harboring a fugitive is a crime punishable by⁠—”


“He isn’t even of age! Only eighteen, just a boy,” the father said. “He couldn’t possibly have fought in the Sovereign’s Tournament.”


Grunting, the soldier released his grip, sending the boy staggering. “The Artist has singlehandedly killed six armed patrols. If we learn you had any involvement . . .”


Six armed patrols? The number was four just the other day. Bitterness swirled in the pit of Tobias’s stomach. It seemed branding him a fugitive was not enough to sully his reputation. He headed in the opposite direction, glancing both ways before weaving through the street.


Hooves clomped in the distance. A man on a mare trotted not far ahead, a large pack on his back, two more on his horse’s rear—a traveler passing through, perhaps in need of lodging. An inn. Tobias followed the man’s lead, keeping a fair pace behind him. Rows of vendor carts lined the street, but all he saw were the placards posted to their fronts, each one bearing his name.


The traveler came to a stop, hitching his horse at the side of the road. Before him stood sun-bleached walls, two, maybe three stories high, with a wooden door and painted sign warped with age. An inn, finally. Tobias looked once in each direction, searching for crested helmets and silver spears. Finding none, he headed inside.


The door to the inn squealed behind him. Patrons sat at tables eating pungent stew and sipping wine and beer. An older man with a full head of grey hair stood behind the bar wiping down plates with a browned rag. Perhaps he was a hand or the innkeeper himself. Tobias pulled up a stool, and the man spoke without looking up from his work.


“What are we ordering?”


“Do you have a room available?” Tobias asked.


“You want a room, you order up.”


Tobias dug through his purse and dropped a coin on the bar top. “Beer.”


The man swept up the coin and left a chalice in its place, sending foam splashing onto the wooden surface. Tobias opened his mouth to speak, but the keeper disappeared into a backroom with an armload of plates. Tobias brought the drink to his lips but stopped short. My cowl. Growling, he set the chalice aside. A beer he couldn’t drink. Wonderful.


A woman plopped onto the stool beside him. She was tall and shapely with pale brown skin and a mane of tight curls a shade or two darker. He rotated his chalice between his fingers, feigning indifference, but the pestering feeling of topaz eyes bore through him, and his shoulders went rigid beneath her unyielding gaze.


“A wayward traveler.” Her full lips were quirked into a smile. “All by our lonesome, are we?”


“That’s how I prefer it,” he said.


“No one cares to be alone, and those who claim as much are usually the most in need of company.” She swirled a fingertip across the bar top. “What brings you to our humble town?”


“A room and a bed.”


“Ah. I can provide both of those and quite a bit more.” Her voice was velvety, each word a caress. “And you’ll find I’m very well-versed in all matters of comfort.”


A courtesan. He should’ve known by the strings of yellow and coral beads pouring down her cleavage, the bangles on her wrists, and the jewels weighing down her ears. The grey-haired innkeeper returned, and Tobias flagged him over. “Sir? A room?”


The man grumbled something under his breath before disappearing again. All the while the woman watched Tobias with a probing gaze.


“My keep is just along the way.” She cocked her head toward the door. “Far cleaner and more welcoming than anything you’ll find here. Plus the perks of a warm body at your side to fulfill your needs, whatever they may be.”


“I appreciate your efforts, but I’m passing by for a place to sleep. Nothing more.”


“Are we not the sort who fancies primal delights? Or are we nursing a broken heart? I assure you, my keep has something for everyone.”


Sighing, Tobias pinched the bridge of his nose, and the woman’s eyes drifted from his covered face to the bow on his wrist.


“Promised! Congratulations.” She scanned the nearby tables. “Are they here? One partner or two? Perhaps more? If this is your reservation, allow me to ease your concerns. I’m very skilled at pleasing many at once.”


“I’m not interested.”


“Am I not your preference, perhaps? That can be easily assuaged. My keep has any desire you can imagine. Pleasure awaits you no matter the form.”


“With all due respect, I’d very much like to be alone.”


She eyed him over. “Very well. Apologies for prying. Men can be quite bashful, and I simply aimed to calm your nerves.” She hopped from the stool, straightening her maroon dress. “If you change your mind, I’ll be waiting by the back door. Discreetly, of course.”


She slipped away, taking the bulk of Tobias’s tension with her. Quickly, he lowered his cowl and took three long gulps of beer, relishing the sharp bite as it slid down his throat. The innkeeper reemerged, and Tobias covered his face. “Sir⁠—”


The man held up a finger before bustling off yet again, and Tobias cursed into his cowl. Useless sack of shit. He sank in his stool, fingers digging into the bar top as he waited.


The front door squealed and slammed, and the din of voices hushed, replaced instead with the familiar clinking of metal.


Soldiers.


Tobias didn’t turn or dare a glance, listening as footsteps echoed behind him.


“Spare a moment of your time for questioning, as ordered by the sovereign,” a man said.


The back door was paces ahead to the left, sunlight beating against its clouded window. The soldiers scattered through the space, and Tobias slinked his hand down to the sword on his hip. If he could just get to that door.


“Have you seen this man? Average height, dark eyes and hair, of Thessian blood.” The phrase repeated behind him, a murmur stalking closer. “That sounds like every goddamn ass in this town,” a patron said. “Oh, piss off,” said another. Heart thundering, Tobias tightened his grip on his weapon, eyes trained on his escape route. How could he leave without notice?


“This is private property. You have no business here.” The innkeeper loomed in the corner of Tobias’s eye, shoulders squared. A soldier stood before him, and he raised his chin as if personally slighted.


“The sovereign commands⁠—”


“I pay my taxes like everyone else, and I’m entitled to protect my property,” the innkeeper said. “What you’re doing is unlawful. You’re disturbing my patrons and interfering with my business.”


“Our orders come straight from the palace for the benefit and safety of Her Holiness, The One True Savior.”


“You’re turning our realm into a military state, hassling honest citizens, making them fear for their lives.”


“If you continue to dissent, I’ll be forced⁠—”


“I’m well within my rights.” The innkeeper pointed to the door. “Now get out.”


The soldier unsheathed his sword. “Men,” he called out, and the rest of the unit rushed to action, pinning the innkeeper to the wall, wrestling his arms behind his back. As the keeper struggled and shouted, patrons mobbed the scene, barking at the soldiers, tossing chalices at their helmets. Tobias bolted for the back door and staggered into the shadowed alley.


“Hello again.”


The courtesan leaned against the plaster wall, eyes wide with surprise and lips pulled into a self-satisfied smirk. “I see we’ve had a change of heart. I’m very pleased.”


Muffled cries sounded from within the inn, and Tobias swallowed. “You should leave. Immediately.”


“Pardon?”


The door swung open, and a man barreled straight into Tobias’s back, sending him crashing into the courtesan. They toppled to the ground while the patron ran off, leaving Tobias to pull himself upright and help the courtesan to her feet. She gasped.


His hood had fallen, leaving his face on full display.


“You’re the Artist, aren’t you?” she said.


His throat went dry. “Quiet.”


“The sovereign’s put out a call for your head.”


Tobias grabbed the woman’s arm, pulling her into his chest and clamping a hand over her mouth. The front door squealed in the distance, followed by a slam, and he pressed his back to the plaster wall. One by one, soldiers marched past the alleyway, some wiping sweat from their brow, others cleaning blood from their swords. Once they disappeared, Tobias exhaled.


“I don’t want to hurt you,” he whispered, “but I need you to be quiet. Please, tell me you can do that.”


She nodded beneath his grasp, and he released his hold.


Spinning to face him, she slapped him across the jaw.


“Mother of⁠—”


“You’ve got some nerve,” she spat. “You really think I’d rat you out to the bloody sovereign?”


Tobias faltered. “Excuse me?”


“Where is She? Where’s Her Holiness?”


“That’s none of your⁠—”


“Is She safe?” The courtesan pointed an accusatory finger his way. “If you haven’t been caring for Her properly, I’ll smite you again, I swear it.”


Tobias opened his mouth, then closed it, then opened it again. “You don’t believe I’ve kidnapped Her?”


“Do I look stupid to you?” She flung her arms into the air. “Everyone knows about the Culmination. The theatrical declaration of love, The Savior rescuing Her Champion from certain death, then rescuing him again once he fell on his ass⁠—”


“I didn’t fall on my ass⁠—”


“Anyone with sense knows you’ve run away together. That the sovereign is doing something nefarious.” Her eyes grew large and curious. “What is it? I thought he just didn’t like you, but all this seems a bit much.”


“We need a place to stay.” The words tumbled out, fueled by Tobias’s racing heartbeat. “Somewhere safe to hide, just for a while. Can you help us?”


“One chamber for Her Holiness and Her beloved shouldn’t be an issue.”


“There are five of us.”


“Five?”


“You’re right,” Tobias said. “The sovereign is doing something very, very nefarious. None of us are safe.”


The courtesan took a step back, scanning Tobias over with a critical gaze. “You’ll elaborate later, yes?”


“If you find us a place to stay.”


She was quiet for a while, lips pursed as she contemplated his words. “God.” She rubbed her forehead. “They’re going to be pissed.”


“Who?”


“Come on.” She grabbed him by the wrist. “Your chamber awaits, Champion.”


Tobias fumbled to secure his cowl as she marched him down the alley, taking him out into the street. Passersby paid them no mind, but he felt exposed, a breath away from death with each step they took. They stopped in front of the tallest building he’d seen thus far, its brick walls stretching stories high, far better kept than the nearby shops. Its red double doors displayed a decorative cock and cunt fashioned with ceramic tiles—the mark of a brothel. The courtesan scanned the road, passing over various faces before her eyes stopped at a single man.


“Ladon,” she called out. “Over here.”


The shirtless man leaned against a shopfront windowsill, gnawing at a half-eaten apple. Black waves hung loose over his ears, his deep golden skin polished to a shine and draped in turquoise beads. The courtesan waved him over, and he swaggered their way, tossing his apple core aside and wiping his hand down his bare chest. He was svelte and wiry with a strong cleft chin and prominent nose, and when he reached their side, he towered over them both.


“Sabine, my mischief maker.” He gave the courtesan a playful pinch. “What do we have here?” Dark eyes lined in blue paint swept over Tobias, stopping at his cowl. “Is someone shy? It’s quite mysterious, this look. I’m positively titillated⁠—”


“He’s not a patron,” Sabine said.


Slumping, Ladon rolled his eyes. “Then why are you wasting my time?”


“I have to show you something. But you can’t say anything.”


“Fine.”


“I mean it. Anything.”


“I said fine.” Ladon crossed his arms. “Get on with it. I’m working.”


Sabine peered around his shoulder, glancing from side to side before giving Tobias a nod. His stomach twisted, but he lowered his cowl.


Ladon stared at him, blank-faced. “I don’t get it.”


“Look at all familiar to you?” Sabine’s whisper sharpened. “Perhaps like a Giant Slayer, or a Keeper of Kin?”


Ladon’s eyebrows knitted together, and then his eyes shot wide. “Oh my God!”


Sabine smacked his arm. “Shut up.”


“You’re a legend! I was rooting for you the whole time. Well, not the whole time, but most of it, I swear.” He glanced in every direction. “Is The Savior here? Can I see Her?”


“They need a place to stay,” Sabine said. “I’m taking him to Isa.”


“Isa?” Ladon blew a raspberry. “Good luck with that.”


“You’re coming with me.”


“What?” he snapped. “Why?”


“Because he’s a wanted fugitive, and I’m not risking my hide alone.”


“Oh, I see. Throwing me to the wolves, eh?”


“Are you helping or not?”


He flashed Sabine a petulant glare, then turned to Tobias. “I get to meet Her Holiness.”


“Sure,” Tobias sputtered out. “Yes. She’d be honored.”


Ladon chewed the inside of his cheek as his painted gaze flitted between the two of them. “Fine.”


Sabine offered a nod of approval, then set her sights on Tobias. “Cover up.” She took the task upon herself, pulling his hood low over his forehead and hoisting his cowl up the bridge of his nose. “From this point forward, you’re our patron. Don’t speak, don’t wander off, and don’t look anyone in the eyes. You follow us and do as we say, understood?” He agreed, and she glanced down at his wrist. “And since we’re being discreet, you might want to hide your promise.”


“You’re promised?”


“Ladon.” Sabine shot him a glare before turning to Tobias once more. “Stick close. It’s a full house.”


“Make sure to appear utterly entranced by us. It shouldn’t be hard.” Ladon offered Tobias a wink. “Do you want to hear why they call me Ladon?”


“He doesn’t,” Sabine said. “No one does.”


She took Tobias’s hand while Ladon looped an arm around his waist. Stepping in time, they pushed open the double doors, ushering Tobias through an entryway—expansive and dark, the windowless walls blood red, the floor shining black tile. They wove between sections in violet and navy, most layered with golden-stitched pillows and sheer beaded silks, some tucked behind indigo drapes or painted partitions depicting acts of debauchery. Candles in golden sconces kept the space dimly lit, casting shadows over platters of fruit, phallic sculptures, and too many naked bodies. The brothel was brimming with life as patrons and courtesans alike lounged atop couches, some dressed in expensive linens, others nude save for their beads. They passed a man guzzling wine while shirtless women cooed into his ear, then three men engaged in a messy kiss, their hands down the fronts of one another’s pants. A man and woman fucked in the corner—slow, rhythmic movements, as if they were making love rather than completing a transaction. A courtesan with pale skin and jet hair swept by, and Sabine flagged her over.


“Is Isa⁠—?”


“In their study,” the courtesan said.


Sabine turned to Tobias. “Brace yourself.”


A weight dropped in his gut. He followed Sabine and Ladon past an overflowing bathhouse that smelled of perfume and sex and up three flights of steps. A man pounded another into oblivion in the corner of the stairwell, and Tobias and his courtesans swerved around their display, venturing onto the fourth floor.


The corridor was empty, lined in black painted doors like rows of soldiers. He peered over the railing. The brothel had an atrium view, perhaps for the benefit of voyeurs, but he was searching for crested helmets. A shorter set of stairs waited for them at the far end, tucked away like a secret, and they filed up one at a time, stopping at another door—a simple wood slab, no color or care. With a deep breath, Sabine knocked three times, then pushed it open.


“Good day, Holder.” She and Ladon entered with a bow, then displayed Tobias trailing behind them. “We have a surprise for you.”


The room was sparce, the antithesis of the halls they had traveled. Brick walls surrounded them punctuated by a single window letting in the light of the sun. Shelves of scrolls, seashells, and weapons lined the space, the sharp edge of each blade piquing Tobias’s already heightened nerves. A large desk made of polished olive wood sat in the room’s center, layered with parchment, reeds, and coin organized into neat stacks. No couches, no stools. It wasn’t a room for visitation. The only seat was the black velvet chair behind the desk, and in it, Tobias assumed, sat Isa.


They were likely around his mother’s age, though their copper skin was mostly smooth and barely wrinkled. They wore their straight black hair short and swept to the side, and their sleeveless ivory tunic hung loose over their unimposing frame, a beige linen cowl drooping across their breasts. An ebony tattoo wrapped their left biceps—simple in design, like uniform pyramids pointing to the floor—and plain silver rings with thick bands adorned each of their fingers. Isa wasn’t large or imposing, but their hooded brown eyes pierced through Tobias like the knives on their shelves, and the bite behind them left him unsettled.


“This is the Artist.” Sabine smiled, though it was strained. “He is very eager to make your acquaintance.”


Reluctantly, Tobias lowered his cowl and hood only to be met with silence. Isa clasped their hands beneath their chin, their eyes unblinking as if studying the slope of his jaw, the angle of his nose.


Ladon cleared his throat. “The Artist competed in the Sovereign’s Tournament⁠—”


“I know who he is.” Isa’s voice was a shock, keen in enunciation and tone. “You’re a fugitive.”


“Under false pretense,” Tobias said. “What the sovereign says of me isn’t true. I didn’t kidnap Her Holiness. You can ask Her yourself.”


“I’m not concerned about the validity of the claim. I’m concerned about my workers.” Isa’s gaze flitted to Sabine. “You’ve brought a fugitive into our home.”


“He’s a hero to the realm,” Sabine said.


“And?”


She wavered. “He seeks asylum.”


“And somehow that’s more important than your family within these walls?”


“If I may speak, I think they act in everyone’s best interest,” Tobias said. “The Savior’s life is in danger. If She dies, the realm dies with Her, including its people, even those within this very establishment. Sabine and Ladon simply aim to protect you.”


Isa leaned back in their seat. “A bullshitter, are we?”


“The sovereign is planning something nefarious,” Sabine said.


“Very, very nefarious.” Tobias mirrored the holder’s intensity. “Your aid in this matter will not only save the lives of your workers, but potentially the whole of Thessen.”


A pointed silence stretched between them. Isa’s gaze tore through Tobias as they flipped through slips of parchment. “You seek asylum?”


“Yes.” Tobias hesitated. “For . . . five people.”


Isa pursed their lips. “And how will we afford such hospitality?”


“There are those of us who can cook and clean.”


“Anyone willing to fuck for profit?”


“I can . . . ask.”


Isa scribbled something along one of their scrolls, uninterested in Tobias’s existence. “You will be on your best behavior. Quiet and well-mannered. The staff is not to be bothered.”


Tobias wanted to exhale in relief, but he kept himself poised. “Absolutely.”


“You will pay your way here, either in services rendered or in coin.”


“Done.”


Isa dropped their scrolls, looking him in the eyes. “If any danger befalls my workers⁠—”


“I am skilled with the sword, as is Her Holiness. We will protect your establishment with our lives.”


The severity of Isa’s gaze didn’t lift. Rustling through a drawer, they pulled out a small blade not unlike Leila’s, twirling its tip against their index finger. “I am quite skilled with a weapon myself. And if my people suffer in any way because of your interference, I’ll make sure the debt is paid.”


Tobias tensed. “A fair price from a fair holder.”


Isa was quiet for a moment longer, gazing over the weapon before depositing it in the drawer. They looked to Sabine and Ladon. “Clear out their rooms.”


The courtesans bowed before disappearing, leaving Tobias alone with their holder. Success. He’d barely thought it possible, yet here he stood, four walls shielding him, a roof over his head. The brothel was a haven, a heavy load lifted from his back. He’d promised sanctuary, and he’d delivered on his word—on safety for Leila, Raphael, and his family. On a shelter for the palace staff.


“You are a guest in our home—an inconvenient one at that.” Isa’s nostrils flared, umbrage alive in their eyes. “Any more surprises, and there will be hell to pay.”


Tobias’s gut twisted, but he said nothing, bowing before leaving the room.



OceanofPDF.com

c2EV
    
  


  


Chapter 14

Leila


Leila leaned against the corridor railing and peered down at the brothel below. She was supposed to be discreet, but the patrons were far too busy with their sexual exploits to point their eyes upward. Besides, the cover of night would’ve concealed Her regardless. It was strange, how light She felt in this den of lechery. She’d been fed a warm meal, had bathed for far longer than necessary, and had fallen asleep the moment Her head hit the pillow. The people below may have found the brothel heady and thrilling, but for Her, the place was a comfort.


She abandoned the corridor, the door to Her chamber creaking as She slipped inside. The space was understated in a cozy way, with a simple wooden table and even simpler chairs, a chest of drawers they had little use for, and a mirrored wardrobe that reminded Her of home. She’d never seen personal quarters as small, but She adored it nonetheless. For the time being, it belonged to Her—and Tobias, still fast asleep.


He lay tucked in their bed, a burgundy sheet draped over his hips. Taking a seat at his side, She watched the steady rise and fall of his chest, the full lashes pressed to his cheeks. She couldn’t remember the last time She’d seen him at peace. Every sacrifice, each injury he’d endured, even the chamber they were sharing—he’d done it all for Her.


She swept the curls from his forehead, and he flinched beneath Her fingertips. “Darling . . .” Tobias squinted, stirring awake. “You’re back.”


“Apologies. I didn’t mean to startle you.” She softened beneath his stare. “I missed you.”


“Well then, don’t be shy.”


He grabbed Her by the waist, pulling Her into their bed at his side. She sank into his arms, calm and content. Only he could do that for Her.


Tobias propped himself onto his elbow, looking down at Leila with a fixed gaze that made Her chuckle. “Why are you looking at Me like that?”


“I’m making sure You’re real. I’ve had many dreams that began like this.”


“Well, I can assure you, I’m here in the flesh.”


“Good.”


His gaze didn’t stray from Hers, his eyes especially black in the dimness of their room. She knew what he was thinking. She was thinking it too.


“Are You upset with me?” he said. “I lied to Isa.”


“I’m not upset.” She couldn’t help but smirk. “It was rather clever, really. I’m impressed.”


“I’m not sure the others will feel the same.”


“Had you told Isa we were seeking lodging for My staff, they would have never given us refuge.” She ran Her hands down his bare chest. “We are here because of your cunning and bravery. I’m very grateful.”


Tobias nestled his head against Hers before kissing Her temple. “They’re going to be difficult to convince. They’ll need an incentive.”


Leila stiffened. The reality of their dilemma had played in Her mind a thousand times over already. Isa would require persuasion, and there was one price above all else that could appease even the most petulant opposition—a price She couldn’t bear to pay.


“We have plenty of coin⁠—”


“I’m to meet with Delphi in four days’ time.” Leila silenced Tobias before he could continue. “Only then does Isa need to know our plan. For now, can we just . . . rest?” She wrapped Her arms around his shoulders. “I just want to be with you.”


Tobias was quiet for a moment before nodding, pressing his lips to Hers. Coin—it was the clear solution, but it wasn’t Hers to give. Their coin belonged to Tobias and his family. To strip them of it was a cruelty She didn’t want to face.


Tobias deepened their kiss, and the familiar taste of sugar swept Her tongue. Fuchsia billowed from his back like a cape, and Leila breathed in its sweetness. She basked in his desire, and every other sensation became heightened and alive—the soft pout of his bottom lip, the rasp of his breath, the roughness of his hands sliding up Her back.


“What happens in these dreams of yours?” Leila whispered. “Show Me.”


A growl of arousal rumbled from his throat. He didn’t speak, eyes locked with Hers while he went to work untying the belt at Her waist. Goose bumps sprang across Her skin as he opened the front of Her dress, and She gasped when he swirled his tongue along Her neck.


She closed Her eyes, breath wavering as his lips traveled down Her chest, and She arched Her back when he cupped Her breasts. Every inch of Her flesh was vibrating with need, then galvanized further by Tobias’s potent swells of pink. He continued his worship, trailing soft kisses down Her stomach, and then he spread Her legs wide and nipped at Her inner thighs. The wait was torturous, leaving Her squirming, whimpering, and when his tongue finally lapped at Her core, She couldn’t stifle Her moan.


Tobias shuffled from the bed, his knees dropping to the floor with a thud. Before She could ask what he was doing, he grabbed Her hips and slid Her forward, pulling Her to the edge of the bed and hoisting Her thighs over his shoulders. Wordlessly, he buried his face between Her legs, and She choked out his name as he licked Her clit. They’d spent several glorious days exploring in the bedroom, but tonight he was different—primal and ravenous, and the sight of him excited Her nearly as much as the wonders he worked with his tongue. She’d thought he’d need instruction, but their past studies had been more than adequate. His mouth was proficient, even godly, and She found an even greater appreciation for his large, pillowy lips.


“Tobias,” She moaned, and his gaze flitted Her way, fierce with intention. He watched as She wriggled in the sheets, and when he sucked at Her clit, he watched Her buck Her hips and cry out once more. Pressure was building low in Her belly, and She spread Her legs wider, greedy for more.


“Tobias . . .”


Her words caught in Her throat, but She didn’t need to speak them. He wasn’t stopping, hungrier with every passing second. Each sensation coalesced in a blissful symphony—Tobias’s fingers digging into Her thighs, Her lungs heaving for air, and the mounting intensity between Her legs. Then Tobias slid two fingers inside Her, stroking in time with his tongue, and Leila cried out, clutching the sheets and arching against the mattress. She’d been wrong—this was ecstasy, and Tobias was its master. Her legs trembled, but he didn’t lose focus. He had taken Her to the brink. She was almost there, desperate, yearning.


The most powerful climax She’d ever experienced rocked Her body. Pressure pounded between Her legs like a heartbeat, Her body taut as She savored every second of Her orgasm. Another shockwave rolled through Her, teetering the line between pleasure and pain, the sensation nearly too much to bear. She reveled in its euphoria, in the feeling of complete release—in Tobias, who didn’t stop his labor of lust until She collapsed against the sheets, breathless.


Leila lay limp, sweat beading along Her skin. Tobias hopped back onto the bed and sidled up to Her, kissing Her tenderly. He wasn’t finished; the pink hue of the chamber hadn’t faded, and it wasn’t long before he was nipping at Her neck and kneading Her breasts. She couldn’t help but laugh, lazily throwing Her arms around his neck.


“What are You thinking?” he murmured.


His hard cock flexed against Her stomach, and She chuckled. “Nothing.” His hand roamed south, settling between Her legs where Her center was still wet and thrumming. She let out a contented sigh. “I just fucking love you.”


Tobias was lost in his reverence, his hands and mouth roving over Her, and She surrendered to his adoration. Their worries would be waiting for them in the morning, but for a fleeting moment, there was only Tobias, his colors, his love.





“You didn’t tell them?”


The scorn in Yucana’s voice was harsh enough to wound. Leila had figured she’d react that way—that the others would shame Tobias for his secrecy. That’s why they had decided, together, to stall the news, at least until they’d adjusted to brothel life. But after a few days of silence, it was time.


They’d called a meeting that evening in their personal chamber—the same chamber that had been used for far more enjoyable exploits. Leila glanced toward the freshly made bed, imagining it mussy and damp—fond memories. Clearing Her throat, She focused on the task at hand. Their traveling party was here, and it was time to deliver the blow.


They were seeking refuge for forty or more people, and Isa hadn’t a clue.


“How exactly was I supposed to do that?” Tobias said. “‘Hello, fearsome Holder. You have no desire to give the five of us asylum, so allow me to add forty people to the equation.’”


Yucana shook her head. “It was deceptive.”


“Forgive me for prioritizing our lives over honesty.”


“He did the right thing.” Raphael offered Tobias a reassuring nod. “Gave us an opening. We can work with it.”


“This place is massive,” Naomi added. “Surely there’s enough space.”


“They’d likely have to share chambers with the courtesans or even take the service bowers.” Yucana’s critical gaze didn’t lift. “It’ll be a significant cut to the holder’s income, not to mention the danger involved.”


Leila clamped Her teeth tight. Those were rational points indeed, hence the secrecy. Besides, Yucana stating the obvious wasn’t helping the matter. There was only one way to coax such a stubborn hand, and Leila couldn’t stomach it.


“We need a bargaining chip,” Raphael said as if reading Leila’s thoughts. “Something to sway them in our favor.”


Tobias chimed in, “Well, the most logical answer is⁠—”


“Coin,” Leila said. “The coin we need to support ourselves. To secure an army.”


The group went quiet. It was out in the open—the worry Leila had been forcing aside for days. The worry She didn’t want to face. There was no delaying it any longer. She hadn’t any other solutions, yet She couldn’t bring Herself to take the Kayas’ earnings.


Raphael shifted in his seat. “Sabine said they’re baking sweet rolls in the kitchen. I should probably earn my keep.” He stood, leaving the group with a nod. “I’ll let you all discuss.”


He left the chamber, closing the door behind him. Leila sat in tense silence, gaze flitting between Tobias, Naomi, and Yucana—the family who held the power to save Her own, a sacrifice She couldn’t imagine.


“We have the coin.” Naomi ended the quiet, eyes bright and voice brighter. “We have plenty.”


Leila sighed. Of course she’d say that. “It’s your allowance from the Sovereign’s Tournament.”


“And?” Tobias said.


Leila looked his way. “You earned it.” She turned to Naomi and Yucana. “You’ve all earned it.”


“And we can spend it how we please,” he countered.


“You risked your life, nearly died on multiple occasions, for the sake of that allowance.”


“Fine.” Tobias folded his arms and leaned back in his seat. “Then let’s be rational. This coin is an investment in our future. Because if You die, then the land dies, and if the land dies, then the people die, and we are among the people, so we will die as well. Yes, we will be without resources. But the alternative is chaos, and You know it.”


“I, too, would prefer not to die, if that needed any clarification,” Naomi added.


Restlessness overtook Leila like ants skittering beneath Her flesh. “I could just . . .”


“Let Your staff rot?” Tobias raised an eyebrow. “We both know that’s not happening.”


“I feel as though I’m being selfish.”


“You’re making a great sacrifice for the sake of Your family. That’s the opposite of selfishness.” He turned to his mother. “Right?”


Leila cowered. Yucana hadn’t yet spoken, her carriage stiff and expression unreadable. At least she hadn’t any colors to spare. For once, Leila was grateful for that, as colors meant strong, potent emotions, and Yucana didn’t seem to have any of those at the moment. That was a good sign, perhaps? But that didn’t stop Leila’s nerves from piquing, nor did it quell Her guilt.


“I’ve had enough of death, seen more of it in these past few weeks than I’d known in my whole lifetime,” Yucana finally spoke. “It’d be comforting to save lives. A balm for the soul.”


Her words should’ve offered Leila relief, but She felt wounded instead. “It’s too much to ask.”


“Is it?” Yucana’s gaze panned to Leila. “Haven’t we enough blood on our hands?”


Leila opened Her mouth to speak but stopped short. Yucana’s tone was even, giving little indication of her mood, but there was something bitter and condemning about her choice of words.


“It’s settled then.” Tobias turned to Leila. “We’re in agreement. That wasn’t so hard, was it?”


His voice was bright, but his soft gaze was laced with sadness. There was so much to lose—Her army, his livelihood. But the beginnings of a smile played at his lips, tempering Her guilt. He of all people knew a great deal about sacrificing for family.


“I don’t need it all.”


Without a word, Tobias pushed out his chair and ducked beneath their squeaky bed, pulling out two, three, four heavy sacks. He slammed them onto the table, their contents clanking.


“How much?” He poured one of the bags out, spilling gold across the wood grain. “Mathematics was never my strong suit. I’m an artist, after all.”


Leila kneaded Her forehead. “Tobias . . .”


“Just say it.”


Her heart sagged, but She resigned Herself to the task, training Her eyes on the shimmering pile. She knew the sum. She’d counted it in Her head many times over, but still She sat unmoving, staring at the felt bags as if they were staring right back. Clenched, She scooted one full bag to the side, then a second. Next, She targeted the spilled pile, separating the coin into equal stacks while Her teeth ground together, threatening to crumble away.


She looked to Yucana, who remained stoic, then Naomi, whose dark eyes were expectant. Resisting the urge to cringe, She pushed half of the stacked coins with the rest of the sum.


So much gold, gone in seconds. As the Kayas eyed the projected payment, She held Her breath.


Tobias swept the remaining spilled coin into Her pile. “As a contingency,” he said. “In case they refuse.”


One felt bag. That was all that remained of their coin. All they had to support their journey, to finance Her army. Only a quarter of Tobias’s hard-earned funds remained to his name, yet his voice hadn’t wavered. His steadfastness both warmed and pained Her, a kiss too pure for Her sullied cheek.


“Do you consent?” Leila asked Yucana and Naomi, though She couldn’t bear to look them in the eyes.


They nodded in agreement, though a part of Leila wished they’d resist. They had already lost so much, and She was taking what little they had left. Everything about the decision felt wrong, but Delphi’s and Pippa’s faces filled Leila’s mind, rekindling Her resolve.


“I’ll give Isa the news.”


“Of course not.” Tobias stood from his seat. “I’ll tell them.”


“It’s My family,” Leila said. “It’s My obligation.”


“But they’ve already dealt with me.”


Leila rose to Her feet and raised Her chin. “Then it’s time for them to speak with their queen.”


Something akin to pride or arousal beamed in Tobias’s eyes, and he nodded. They separated the contingency gold into a smaller bag that She tied to Her belt above Her bum, then slung the rest over Her shoulder in two hefty sacks that weighed on Her like marble slabs. Pressing down the folds of Her dress, She bid the Kayas farewell and headed for the holder’s study.


She’d had plenty of meetings with detestable men, and the holder, however cantankerous, was hardly a bloodthirsty senator. Still, the task ahead seemed insurmountable, like scaling the tallest tower without a grappling hook. She’d waged war for Her own life many times before, but fighting for those She loved was another beast entirely. Somehow, the stakes felt higher.


Leila rapped on the study door, waiting for permission that never came. Fuck it. She made Her way inside.


Drab, bland, and barren—such a contrast to the spectacle below with its violet curtains and sex splayed across every surface. Isa sat behind a massive desk, much smaller in stature than Leila had imagined. Perhaps they weren’t little per se, but angular and deerlike with none of the softness or ease. Their drape and tunic in deep shades of grey were just as minimalist as their study, their fingers adorned in an array of simple silver bands. What is the purpose of jewelry if not to glitter?


“Your Holiness.” Isa scribbled across a long strip of parchment that poured over their desk onto the floor. “To what do I owe the pleasure?”


The coin sagged from Leila’s shoulder, the leather cords cutting into Her flesh. “I haven’t had the proper chance to thank you for your hospitality. You run a fine business. Your courtesans have welcomed us graciously.”


“You haven’t come emptyhanded, I see.”


How they saw anything, Leila hadn’t a clue. They hadn’t looked Her way since She’d arrived. She plopped the three sacks onto the desk with a thud. “For you.”


Isa went still, their gaze drifting up from their scroll. “For what purpose?”


“To cover the cost of twenty chambers for an indeterminate length of time.”


A pointed silence swept between them. If Isa was surprised, they didn’t show it. They didn’t show much of anything. Even the air was empty, free from a hint of color. Damn their composure. Leila could’ve used the insight.


Isa set aside their reed and clasped their hands. “And why would You need that?”


“My royal staff is being held prisoner. They face constant danger under the sovereign’s watchful eye. Some have already been punished by death. I aim to liberate them and provide them hiding and safety.”


“I fail to see what any of this has to do with me.”


“You’ve been a fair host these past few days. The Savior’s line is forever indebted to you.” Leila cocked Her head toward the stuffed sacks standing upright on Isa’s desk. “If you provide refuge for My people, the act will be rightfully rewarded.”


“I don’t care for rewards. I care for my staff.”


“Something we have in common.”


Isa’s gaze was empty, their voice impassive. “Then You understand why my answer is no.”


Leila tensed. She had expected as much, but that didn’t temper Her ire. “Everyone can work for their keep. Cooking, cleaning, mending, patrolling, labor, and record keeping. Some, I’m sure, will be happy to take on the courtesan role. They’re well-read, well-mannered, and highly skilled.”


“And what happens when soldiers break down our doors and find I’ve not only aided and abetted a fugitive but also harbored dissenters? Will their skills be of any use to me then?”


Without a word, Leila dropped the bag of contingency coin onto the table. Isa’s blank gaze panned to the offering. “Your Holiness, I run a very lucrative business. Your coin doesn’t have the appeal You think.”


“Need I remind you, I am your queen. My command is binding.”


“Your command, no matter how holy, comes second to my staff. My family⁠—”


“This is My family. My sisters.” Leila’s voice came out in a hiss. “People who have risked death to ensure I live. To keep Thessen from crumbling beneath the rule of a tyrant.”


The study fell silent, but Leila’s mind, a cacophony of screaming thoughts and Her echoing pulse, was far from it. “The coin may mean nothing to you, but it’s all we have. And I am sacrificing it now to save My family. I know full well you see that. That you’d do the same.”


Isa didn’t speak, their unblinking stare a hot poker. Leila took in a steadying breath, clinging to what remained of Her poise. “My servants are as pleasing as anyone within these walls. Rid them of their royal garb, and no one will be able to tell the difference. The only threats to your staff are Tobias and Me. And I assure you, if you do this for Me, we will make our time here scarce. You will be safe, paid, and in no lack of competent workers, happy to do their part because you liberated them.”


The promise was heavy, a weight to replace the coin She’d relinquished. Her staff’s asylum in return for Her own. Of course, it was necessary. She couldn’t stay in the brothel forever. But it had been comforting, having warm sheets, a hot meal, a roof overhead. If Isa agreed, She and Tobias would be on the run again—without shelter and coin.


She’d never wanted such a fate so badly.


Isa’s eyes danced between Leila and the coin, their decorated fingers rapping against the table with aggravating slowness. They looked Leila in the eyes.


“No.”


Leila’s heart raced. “You understand, this exchange was a kindness. I have a sworn duty to protect My people, and My word is law.”


“And my word is no.” Isa scooted the bags to the edge of Her desk. “My staff has extended themselves sufficiently. No further risk will be taken.”


“The coin was a gesture of good faith. You have no say in this decision.”


“Then bring forth the mighty hand of Your will, Your Holiness. Punish me with imprisonment or death. It seems like something Your father would do, after all.”


Leila bit down on Her tongue just to keep Her composure. “Prepare the rooms.” She turned on Her heel, heading for the door before Her emotions could overtake Her. “The refugees will be arriving shortly.”


“You’ve forgotten Your coin.”


“And you’ve forgotten your duty to your realm.”


Leila slammed the door behind Her, the malice of Her words stinging Her throat. Charging down the hallway, She cursed to Herself. My command is binding. That was a lie, as it had never proven such, not even within Her own palace walls. What soldiers did She have to enforce Her word? Her power was holy light and little else, useless in matters such as these. Shame and fury waged war in Her gut, eating at Her from the inside. Was this to be Her legacy? The Savior who couldn’t save Her family? Her people? Herself?


She came to a hard stop, lungs heaving as Her eyes misted with angry tears. Tell Tobias. She had to. Then She glanced out an adjacent window, taking in the sky—a swath of black dotted with stars. Her stomach sank, but still She channeled the heat of Her light.


The watchtower.


Her power surged and ebbed, leaving Her with the warm smell of night. Delphi leaned against the cracked stone sill, bouncing her knee and picking at the raw skin of her cuticles. Even with her hood slung overhead, Leila could make out the bags under her eyes. Delphi was never like this—drawn and on edge, a shell of the woman Leila knew and loved.


She had failed her.


Delphi looked Leila’s way and exhaled. “God, there You are.” She ran to her sister, flinging her arms around Her. “I thought something had happened to You.”


Leila cringed, small in Delphi’s embrace. “I know. I’m late again. I’m sorry.” Blinking back tears, She pulled away. “How are you faring?”


“Well enough.” Delphi raised a single brow. “I see You eyeing me over.”


“You’ve lost weight.”


“My ass is still the finest in the palace, thank You very much.”


“Your face is gaunt.” Leila’s words nearly caught in Her throat. “Your color, it isn’t the same.”


“Fine, I look like hell. But that is a trivial byproduct of our cause. I’m safe in the tunnels. I have plenty to eat, a place to sleep. You don’t need to extend Yourself on my behalf.”


Something jagged tore through Leila’s gut. She bit down on Her lip, fighting to still Herself. “I told you I’d find a way out.”


“And I’ve told You it’s a sacrifice You can’t afford.”


“Living here is a sacrifice you won’t survive. You told Me dissenters have already been killed. How long until one of our own is hurt?”


Delphi opened her mouth to speak, then stopped short, the light in her eyes dimming. Leila’s throat became thick.


“Something’s already happened, hasn’t it?”


Delphi stiffened, picking at her cuticles once more. “It’s Hylas.”


Leila choked. “Oh My God, he’s⁠—?”


“He’s all right. He’s resting. You have nothing to worry about.”


“Tell Me what happened.” Leila’s voice cracked. “You have no right to deny Me. It’s My realm, it’s My burden. I need to know.”


“He’s fine⁠—”


“Tell Me now.”


Delphi nearly shrank beneath Leila’s order. “Your father’s need for control pushes him to great lengths. He tests everyone, demands obedience.” She paused, ruminating over her words. “Yesterday, he turned his attention to his Senate. Made them prove their loyalty.”


“How?”


Delphi swallowed. “Pain.”


Nausea seethed in Leila’s stomach. “He tortured them?”


“Mildly.”


“There’s no such thing as mild torture, Delphi.”


“Just a few cuts and bruises. Many have survived far worse.”


Leila turned from Her sister, gripping the watchtower sill. “God, I think I’m going to be sick.”


“He held firm, didn’t speak a word of our alliance, and thus has earned Brontes’s trust.” Delphi’s voice rang out behind Her. “You see? We’re handling ourselves. We have no need to escape.”


Leila winced. No need for escape—while Her sister wasted away underground and Her allies endured torment. Who knew how Her servants were faring, how Pippa and Talos were handling the madness. A sob threatened to tear from Her throat, but She swallowed it, gazing vacantly at the stars. This couldn’t be Her legacy. She wasn’t Her father, and She wouldn’t stand idly as bodies piled around Her.


My command is binding. More than ever, She needed that to be true.


“We have a place for you,” Leila said. “A place to stay.”


She spun toward Her sister, who simply blinked. “What?” Delphi asked.


“There are plenty of rooms. It’s close quarters, but if we do two, maybe three to a chamber, I’m sure we can manage. But everyone has to work for their keep. Cleaning, cooking, mending . . . other things . . .”


“Where is this place?”


“It’s a brothel.”


Delphi tipped her head back with a roaring laugh. “Are we to be courtesans now?”


“Only those with a taste for it. There’s no coercion by any means.”


Delphi’s laughter calmed, her eyes drifting to the realm below. “I always wondered what it was like. Seems like more of a holiday than a job. Coin and cunt? Where’s the downside?”


A soft smile graced her lips, pulling Leila in opposite directions. It was decided. She’d circumvent Isa and enact Her power through sheer force of will. Something about it was ugly, a beast mindless to all but its hunger.


But how beautiful it was to save Her sister.


“The staff is welcoming and kind. The holder is . . . honest.” A twinge pulled within Leila, but She pushed past it. “You’ll have food, clean clothes, a bed to sleep in. And the chambers are paid for. There’s nothing to worry about.”


Delphi furrowed her brow. “Paid for?”


“Tobias has his allowance from the Sovereign’s Tournament. We covered your board for the foreseeable future.”


“I hate that you’ve extended yourselves just for⁠—”


“For you?” Leila said. “For My family? For countless innocent people? We understood the costs.”


Delphi rested her chin in her hand, skepticism etched across her face. “You’re sure the brothel is safe?”


“About as safe as any other place in the realm.”


“Which means not safe at all.”


“It’s a refuge outside the palace,” Leila said. “Somewhere for you to blend in, at least pretend to be a part of the staff, courtesan or cook, servant or summoner.”


“It’s not the brothel I’m worried about. It’s You.”


Leila forced a smile. “Well, soon enough, you’ll be able to worry about Me in close quarters. Because you are coming. I won’t accept any other answer.”


Delphi’s expression remained worn, but the air around her was littered with flecks of orange and yellow that twinkled like the stars above. Her relief was palpable, fueling Leila’s resolve. Isa’s wrath be damned. Perhaps that was what it meant to be queen—learning when to release the beast within.


“Tell Hylas to gather the others,” Leila said. “Anyone who needs to escape. You’ll give Me the final tally tomorrow at sunset.” She paused, sifting through Her frenzied thoughts. “How much time do you need to coordinate?”


“I don’t know. A few days?”


“Spread the message that in three days’ time, at nightfall, you will climb the steps of the watchtower, hand-in-hand. I will arrive and shadow walk you away.”


“Leila, that’s at least forty people. Brontes will notice.”


“We only need a few moments. It doesn’t matter if he notices when we’re already gone.”


Delphi didn’t look convinced, but she nodded along anyway. “So, in three days . . .”


“You arrive here,” Leila said. “Hand-in-hand. That’s the important part. It won’t work otherwise.” She squeezed Her sister. “I’ll take you away. Free you from this place.”


Delphi’s eyes drifted back to the blackened sky, the fragility in her gaze raw and cutting.


“It’ll work. I’m sure of it.”


Delphi’s shoulders lowered with an exhale, and her colors returned—the beautiful shine of hope, a gift Leila had delivered. She wrapped Leila in another hug, speaking against Her hair. “I love You.”


“Love you too.”


Their embrace was longer than usual. They had shared a similar moment before, when Leila first fled the palace. But this time was different.


Her sister was coming with Her.



OceanofPDF.com

c2ND
    
  


  


Chapter 15

Tobias


Tobias tipped his head back and groaned. “Holy shit.”


Leila was sucking his cock. A part of him couldn’t believe it, would’ve called his own bluff had he not seen Her naked in his lap, mouth wrapped around his length. He’d had plenty of fine mornings in his lifetime, but this one, by far, was the best.


He gripped the sheets, heels digging into the mattress. “Fuck, Leila.”


Something mischievous glimmered in Her eyes. She seemed to enjoy his vulgarities, though he couldn’t control his voice even if he tried. Her hand went to work massaging his balls, and that coupled with Her plump, wet lips sent swells of heat undulating through him.


The magnitude of the moment wasn’t lost on him—that the holy deity of Thessen was dragging Her mouth up his shaft like it was covered in sugar. He watched Her as She worked, and when She swirled Her tongue around his head without breaking Her gaze on him, the beginning of the end built within him.


“Oh my God.” He closed his eyes, blinding himself to Leila’s labor of love. All that remained was the pressure building within him, climbing higher. “Fuck, I’m so close . . .”


She moved faster, a woman on a mission, and soon enough he was spilling over, devoid of control. Pleasure catapulted through him, a powerful tide crashing against land. No doubt he’d uttered some garbled nonsense, but all he could focus on was the sensation exploding internally, overtaking him.


Just as the ecstasy became too much to bear, it faded, leaving him with his surging lungs and a limp sack of a body. After a quiet moment of recovery, he opened his eyes to find Leila nestled at his side, wiping Her lips.


Tasting Leila had been the most arousing experience of his life—until She’d tasted him.


“That was amazing,” he said.


“Was it?”


“Yes. The best thing ever.” Panting, he gazed up at the ceiling, luxuriating in the lingering sensations. “Come here.” He pulled Leila on top of him, kissing Her hard. “You’re a goddess, You know that?”


She laughed and nuzzled against his neck, leaving him with the heady floral scent of Her hair. His breathing slowly normalized, though the thrill of the moment lingered, flickering like sparks against his flesh. It was a truly perfect day. Never mind that they were hidden in a brothel, asylum seekers with no guarantee for tomorrow. In the midst of his lustful haze, their quandary felt more like an adventure—a daring secret shared between lovers.


“Should I feel bad?”


Leila picked at the edge of their sheet, Her gaze distant. Tobias didn’t need Her to explain. As soon as day had broken, She’d told him of Her meeting with Isa as well as Her decision to bypass the holder’s will. It was a bold move, another risk added to their unending list. Had it been his family, he’d surely have done the same.


“You’re saving nearly fifty lives,” Tobias said. “Isa’s pride is a fair sacrifice.”


“Still, it seems like something Brontes would do.”


“Brontes would kill Isa. I don’t see You holding a blade to their throat.”


Leila shook Her head. “What if My staff arrives and Isa turns them away?”


“You said it Yourself—You are queen. Your word is law. We’ll make them see reason.”


“How? By holding a blade to their throat?”


The severity of Her words bore down on him, as did the look in Her eyes—a mix of strength and indecision, as if the war in Her realm had ravaged Her mind.


“We have three days.” Tobias took Her hands in his. “We’ll find a way.”


Exhaling, She rested Her head against his chest, the silence between them soft and content. He watched as Her body rose and fell with his breathing, Her fingertips painting his skin as they often did. Perhaps She could see his colors then. He wasn’t quite sure if comfortable was an emotion, nor could he imagine how it appeared in Her eyes. What was it like to see the world so differently from everyone else?


“I have a question,” Tobias said. “A Savior question.”


A smirk played at Leila’s lips. “Is that right?”


“How exactly does the whole . . . divine pregnancy work?”


Leila started, propping Herself onto Her elbow. “You want to have a baby?”


“I didn’t say that.”


“We’re on the run. Fleeing for our lives. Living in a brothel.”


Tobias laughed. “I’m well aware.”


“Not to mention we’re very young with plenty of years ahead of us. I, for one, am by no means ready to be a mother.”


“Actually, I was wondering if I should ask one of the courtesans for bacca,” Tobias said. “Just in case.”


Leila sat frozen beside him, eyes wide and lips parted. “Oh.”


The rosiness of Leila’s cheeks spread through Her face. It was endearing, how a woman adept at politics and murder was flustered by talk of intimacy. Perhaps She thought him presumptuous, but they were promised to be wed, and one day or another, they’d be making love with far more than their hands and tongues. She had said it Herself—they weren’t ready for a child, and he’d consume an entire barrel of bacca if it meant laying with Her without worry.


“Milo’s brother labored for a bacca mill, You know.” Tobias offered a smile, hoping to ease Leila’s nerves. “He had an endless supply at his disposal. Milo stole a handful of berries ‘just in case.’ He kept them in his pocket so long, they rotted. The man was all talk. No one wanted to fuck him. We all knew it.”


Leila chuckled, avoiding his gaze. “Well, I don’t think a pocket full of bacca will be necessary.” Her flush deepened, nearly the rich cerise color of the berries themselves.


“I was just curious. Each Savior has only one child. Always a daughter time and time again. I assumed there must be something to it, is all.” He waggled his eyebrows. “Something magical.”


She matched his smile with Her own. “I get to choose.”


“Pardon?”


“The Savior,” She said. “When She decides She’s ready, it’s done.”


“You just . . . become pregnant?”


“No.” Leila rolled Her eyes. “The seed needs to be planted, of course. But⁠—”


“She wills that seed to be the seed.”


“Precisely.”


“And the father has no say?”


“It’s not his belly.”


“I suppose that makes sense.” Tobias thought over Leila’s words. “You’d tell me, right? When You decide You’re ready?”


“I’m not ready until we’re both ready.”


“I’m indisputably and unequivocally not ready.”


“Good.”


Her grin melted through him, and She was once again free at his side, hair cascading over his shoulder as She rested Her cheek on his chest. This was his favorite version of Her—a vision of power and brilliance at peace.


“So, wait,” Tobias said. “Does this mean that when we . . . further our explorations . . . we never have to worry about⁠—?”


“That’s exactly what it means.”


Her mischievous glint reappeared, coaxing him to pull Her closer. “You’re full of surprises, aren’t You?” He gave Her a long, yearning kiss, Her tongue against his a tempting reminder of all it could do. But when their lips parted, Leila’s gaze drifted toward nothing at all, certainly not Tobias, and his pride wilted.


“What are You thinking?”


“It’s strange, is all.” She looked down at Her hands. The drapes were closed shut and Her skin wasn’t glowing, but She eyed Her palms as if the magic within them was on full display. “Some of it is innate. From the moment I was born, I just knew. Understood My power. But other things still elude Me. Like My body is something separate. Something foreign.” She shrugged. “I suppose I’m not exactly human.”


“Well then, if You think about it, what we’re doing here between the sheets is unnatural. Filthy, even.”


She laughed. “Tobias, stop.”


“We’re barbaric. Regular donkey fuckers.”


“Are you calling Me a donkey?”


“Not just any donkey—the most glorious, gorgeous donkey I’ve ever laid eyes on.”


Her laughter roared before fading against his lips, Her body pressed to his where it belonged. A whisper of silk tickled his neck as She sifted his hair through Her fingers—Her promise, an ever-present reminder that they were one.


“I would like that one day, You know,” he whispered. “To be a father.”


“Good,” She said. “Because law dictates that as our future sovereign, you haven’t much of a choice.”


Her words sent him rigid.


Our future sovereign.


He’d known that for ages, yet somehow it was startling. Leila was the Savior, and they were to be wed. Naturally, that came with a title of his own—Sovereign of Thessen, second in command to Her Holiness’s rule. He wasn’t just to be Leila’s husband. He would be Her advisor, Her colleague in politics, a leader in his own right. Leila would always sit upon the holy throne, but in some adjacent way, Thessen would also be under his domain. He hadn’t considered that during the tournament, certain he’d never survive. But after so much danger and chaos, he had to sit with the notion. One day, if he were to live to see it, he’d wield power and responsibility he’d never known.


Red flashed in his periphery—his own wrist and the bow it carried. The ribbon promised so much more than marriage. He was promised to the whole of his realm, a duty he may or may not be worthy of.


“Is something wrong?”


Leila was watching him, concern etched across Her face.


“Nothing.” He threaded a strand of hair behind Her ear. “I’m just so happy You’re mine.”


A knock sounded at the door and Sabine welcomed herself inside. “Good day, lovebirds.” Her eyes flitted between the two of them—naked save for their shared sheet—and she smirked. “I hope I’m not intruding.”


“Not at all,” Leila said. “Is everything all right? Is it Isa?”


“Your presence is required on the second floor, Your Holiness. In the parlor.”


“I see.” Pulling on a robe, Leila abandoned their bed and dressed quickly. “Please excuse Me.”


Tobias nearly objected to Her leaving, but She’d already closed the door by the time he opened his mouth. Clinging the sheet to his waist, he looked to Sabine. “Is something going on?”


“She’s fine.”


“We’re at a war. Her life’s in danger. My sole purpose here is to protect Her⁠—”


“Ladon requested to steal Her away for a moment,” Sabine said. “He has questions about Her magic, and blessings, and . . . hair.” She offered a sympathetic smile. “I didn’t mean to concern you. He just really loves Her hair.”


Letting out a long breath, Tobias kneaded his forehead. “Apologies. I’ve been on edge.”


Sabine didn’t respond—didn’t do anything, in fact, still standing beside the doorway, arms crossed and eyes on Tobias. He shifted uncomfortably. “Was there anything else?”


“You and The Savior are promised.”


“Obviously, yes.”


“And things between you seem quite steamy.”


Tobias raised an eyebrow. “Did you have a question?”


“I have hundreds, actually.” Sabine pulled up a chair and took a seat. “And seeing as I’ve bestowed upon you this immense favor, it seems only fair you answer.”


“I’m not sure that would be appropriate.”


“The Savior is a divine being who glows,” Sabine continued, undeterred. “And all She touches glows.”


“All She blesses glows. It’s very different.”


“But I heard you had glowing handprints across your body during the Culmination.”


Tobias sighed. “That’s⁠—”


“And I heard the glow of your cock shone straight through your pants.”


“What? Wait, no⁠—”


“So, I can’t help but wonder, is every touch She gives a blessing?” Sabine rested her chin on her fist, looking deep in thought. “Or are you just perpetually blessed because you’re Her beloved? How does She discern who should glow and who shouldn’t?”


“My cock didn’t glow.” Tobias thought back to the Culmination. “At least, I don’t think it did? Regardless⁠—”


“Does it have to be a touch from Her hands, or can it be from”—Sabine’s sly smirk returned—“other places?”


Heat rose up Tobias’s neck. “That’s enough.”


“And if Her touch glows, it must produce light, and light is inherently warm. Does that mean Her cunt is particularly warm? At least more so than the norm. Smoldering, even. I understand it’s an odd question, but when you’re between shifts, the mind wanders⁠—”


“I don’t know!” Tobias spat. “Please, stop asking. Her body is none of your concern.”


The room fell quiet. The flush of Tobias’s face deepened, and he was even more aware of his nakedness. He shifted the sheet around his waist while Sabine’s gaze turned thoughtful and probing.


“Apologies,” she said. “I was just trying to get a rise out of you. Payback for the hell you caused me. Isa hasn’t let me hear the end of it since you arrived.”


“All right.” But still Sabine didn’t move, and her eyes seemed to penetrate straight through Tobias’s skull. “Why are you looking at me like that?” he asked.


“Have the two of you consummated your relationship?”


Tobias groaned, raking a hand through his hair. “God⁠—”


“Have you ever consummated any relationship?”


“I’m not doing this.”


“I mean no harm,” she said. “It’s just, in my line of work, there are signs.”


“Can I at least dress?”


Sabine stood, turning to face the door. Tobias skittered out of bed, digging through his things before pulling out fresh clothes.


“It’s not as though I have no experience.” He threaded his legs through his pants. “I’ve done things. We’ve done things.”


“I gathered as much. You two were naked just moments ago, after all.”


As he adjusted his tunic, Sabine turned around, the look in her eyes far less invasive. “I’m sorry. I’ve approached this all poorly. I never meant to insult your prowess. I was merely surprised, is all. You’re very handsome, and typically handsome men . . . well, they know it.”


“So, that means I’m a bastard, fucking every open hole that comes my way.”


“You don’t have to be a bastard to fuck. You just have to want to fuck.”


“It’s not as though I don’t think about it.”


Sabine raised her eyebrows. “But?”


Grunting, Tobias sat upright. “My father died when I was barely grown, and the very accident that killed him crippled my sister.” His own words shook him. Somehow, even years after the incident, it was still a struggle to recount. “I left everything I’d worked for to care for my family. I wasn’t worried about my cock. I was worried about whether my mother and sister would have food to eat the following day. Whether I could afford their tonics.”


He threw his hands up. “And really, how many women do you think are waiting in the sugarcane fields with their legs spread wide? Because that’s where I spent my days. And even if I hadn’t . . .” His gaze wandered, as did his preoccupied thoughts. “I just want it to be right. I had a vision in my mind. Someone who made me feel . . . I don’t know. Liberated. Someone I wanted to explore in body and mind. Someone like Leila.”


Sabine let out a melodic laugh, and Tobias frowned. “Now you’re laughing at me.”


“I’m not. I’m charmed.” Her laughter died, leaving behind a smile. “You’re a romantic.”


“I suppose I am.”


“It’s rare,” she said. “Not that any other inclination is better than the next, but still, it’s lovely to see. Our Savior chose wisely indeed.”


“I just want Her to feel special.”


“And She will, I’m sure of it.” Something mischievous sparkled in her gaze. “But you want Her to feel good too, yes?”


“I haven’t had any issue with that.”


“I’d assume nothing less. Then again, the fingers and tongue are much easier to wield than the sword.”


Tobias snorted, then froze when Sabine said nothing. “You’re serious.”


“Absolutely.”


“I always thought⁠—”


“Fucking was easier?” she said. “You heard that from men, didn’t you?”


Dammit. His face was hot again. How his pride had gone from immense to nonexistent in a single morning was truly a feat. Women were especially talented at puppeteering the male ego.


Sabine pulled her chair toward the bed and leaned in close. “You know, I’m not quite sure if you’ve noticed, but this particular act of passion happens to be my profession. I can teach you how to satisfy your promised.”


Tobias bristled. “You don’t think I can satisfy Her?”


“I have no doubt that your sword is mighty and strong⁠—”


“God—”


“But it can take quite a few attempts to satisfy a woman, and that’s with an eager student.” She shrugged. “I simply aim to better your odds. What do you think?”


It was Tobias’s turn to assess her, eyeing her over as if she might reveal at any moment she was playing him for a fool. Instead, she sat poised and dignified, smirking like she assumed he’d already made up his mind—which he had.


“I’m not going to fuck you.”


She rolled her eyes. “It’s a verbal lesson. Do you want to learn the ways of the cunt or not?”


With his pride properly put to rest, he was left with a slew of other feelings to wrestle with. Excitement. Curiosity. Visions of Leila tumbled through his mind, along with possibilities, positions. He leaned forward.


“Should I write this down?”





Tobias trekked through the brothel a wiser, more capable man, the secrets of the finer sex locked tight in his mind where he’d never, not in a million years, forget them.


He wove past the staff’s wing, far from the prying gazes and potentially blabbering mouths of clientele, and into the abandoned kitchen pantry, his allies’ usual meeting spot as of late. They had dragged a small table into its center, and though the space was cramped and meager, they were in perfect reach to nab tasty samples of decadent cakes and far-too-potent wines. Naomi was already seated by her lonesome nibbling at a flaky pastry covered in honey. Something in his stomach twinged at the absence of his mother. Her presence had been scarce ever since she’d learned he deceived Isa. He pushed the feeling aside, taking a seat next to his twin.


“Morning, my lovely sister.” He snatched up a pastry, biting into it before noting Naomi’s scathing glare. “What?”


“My chamber is right next to yours, you know.”


He burst out laughing, covering his mouth to catch the crumbs. Naomi’s glower deepened. “I’m absolutely thrilled you’re enjoying yourself, but would you mind keeping it down? I could do without the imagery.”


She smacked the pastry out of his hand, but he caught it mid-air, popping it into his mouth with a triumphant grin.


“Good morning.” Leila strode into the kitchen, Her pink cheeks and billowing cornflower dress a vision of soft regality. “What’s going on here?”


“Nothing, darling.” Tobias pulled Leila onto his lap and kissed Her cheek. “Naomi’s being sour. Ignore her.”


“I’ve received our duties for the day.” Raphael’s voice preceded him into the room, eyes tracing over the scroll in his hands. “Yucana is to help with the cooking staff, same as always, while Naomi tends to the laundering, and I have the endlessly engrossing task of accounting. How ever did I get so lucky?” He plopped into the seat beside Tobias, tossing the parchment onto the table and grabbing a pastry. As he chewed on his treat, he eyed Leila sidelong. “You seem in good spirits. I take it Your meeting with the holder went well?”


Leila’s gaze dropped. “They were⁠—”


“The palace staff will be here in three days’ time,” Tobias said.


“Really?” Naomi’s eyes widened. “The holder agreed?”


Leila opened Her mouth to speak but Tobias interjected. “They’re preparing the rooms as we speak. Isa wasn’t easily swayed, but Leila can be quite persuasive.”


Naomi exhaled and leaned back in her seat. “Well, that’s a relief. One less thing to worry about.”


“Exactly.” Tobias looked Leila hard in the eyes. “One less worry. Because Your family will be safe by any means necessary.”


He took Her hand beneath the table, and Leila hesitated before offering a slight nod.


Clearing his throat, Tobias rose from his seat. “I have to go. I promised Sabine I’d dust the bedding.” He gave Naomi a firm kiss on the temple. “Be good.”


“Don’t kiss me with that mouth! I know where it’s been.”


Tobias chuckled, swatting at his sister’s slappy hands before leaving Leila with a wink. Snatching up one last pastry, he left the kitchen, less-than-eager to partake in his chores.


Footsteps pitter-pattered behind him, and Raphael appeared at his side. “Isa didn’t agree to the plan, did they?”


Tobias’s jaw flexed. “Not exactly.”


“Yet the palace staff is still on their way?”


“Leila is our queen. Her word is law.” He wound down an adjacent corridor, checking for prying eyes before continuing. “She doesn’t need Isa’s approval.”


“It’s a wise move,” Raphael said, trailing behind him. “The only option, really. Leila’s plan was met with protest. She made an executive decision. What else was there to do?”


“Exactly.”


“It appears as though the plan is falling into place.” Raphael reached Tobias’s side and kept his pace. “When the two of you first presented this rescue mission, I thought you were dooming us to die, but it seems you have some idea of what you’re doing after all.”


Tobias scoffed, “Such high praise.”


“It’s a compliment.”


“Your brand of flattery could use some work.”


“Artist!”


They spun in place toward the voice. Ladon was running their way, clinging to his half-laced pants as they crept down his hips. “Artist.” He skidded to a stop, fighting to catch his breath. “I’ve been looking for you everywhere.”


“Keep your voice down.” Raphael glanced from side to side. “We’re in hiding.”


“One of my clients . . .” Ladon sucked in a shallow breath. “One of my clients said something. Something important.” He hung his head, panting. “Shit. Give me a moment. This place has so many stairs.”


“What is it?” Tobias said.


“Soldiers are thinning.” Ladon stood upright, regaining composure. “There have been fewer patrols as of late.”


“That’s good, right?”


“There are coverts in town—bounty hunters keen to capitalize on your capture.” Ladon’s dark eyes went wide, lit with fear. “They’re making their way through every shop, every inn, and they’re searching for you.”


Tobias’s throat sealed shut. The brothel had begun to feel comfortable, even safe. He knew better than to allow that. Their sanctuary would be infiltrated in a matter of days, if not hours, and Leila and his family would be at the mercy of Brontes.


“That’s it,” Raphael said. “We’re leaving.”


“No.” Tobias spoke before he could second guess himself. He gave Ladon’s hand a firm shake. “Thank you for this. I’ll handle it.”


He headed for the stairwell without parting, sickness roiling in his belly. There wasn’t time to strategize, and even if there was, he knew deep down that only one solution was viable—a task that sat heavily in his chest, threatening to crush him.


Raphael followed him, his voice hovering over Tobias’s shoulder. “How exactly are you going to handle this?”


“Simple.” Tobias tore into his chamber, pushing past the quaking of his insides. “I’m going to kill the coverts.”


“What?” Raphael stopped short, standing aghast in the doorway. “How?”


“I’m going into town.” Tobias threw his cloak over his shoulders. “I’ll find them, and I’ll kill them.”


“Tobias, they’re searching for you specifically. This is suicide.”


“What other choice do I have?” he growled. “We leave, and the members of Leila’s staff die one by one. We stay here, and the coverts find us, and we die together.” The dread in his stomach twisted as he strapped a blade to each of his thighs. “But if I go, either I kill them all⁠—”


“Or they kill you.”


Raphael’s words reverberated in Tobias’s gut. He turned to face him. “Either way, the rest of you are safe, and Leila is free to find Her army. Can you think of any other options? Because I can’t.”


Silence. Raphael stared back at Tobias, frame still and expression blank. “Fuck.”


Fuck is right. Plunging headfirst into danger and searching for killers disguised as civilians was the last thing he wanted. But then Leila, his mother, his sister, and even Raphael floated through his mind, and his heart swelled and lurched. He couldn’t lead these coverts to them. If risking his hide was the only way to keep them safe, then self-preservation be damned. He sheathed his sword.


“I’ll come with you.”


Tobias sighed. “Raphael.”


“I know.” Raphael shook his head. “I knew it was stupid before I even finished saying it.” His eyes flitted between Tobias’s weapons. “What can I do?”


Leila. Naomi. My mother. He could see them again in his mind’s eye. “Take care of them. Keep them safe.”


“Naomi’s herbs are boiling as we speak.”


“Thank you.” Tobias made his way to the door, then stopped short. “I know it’s not what you wanted . . . that we’re not utilizing your skills . . .”


“It’s fine,” Raphael said. “It’s nice, actually. Being needed in a different way. People don’t usually find me very adept at care.”


“Haven’t a clue why.”


Raphael scowled. “Oh, fuck off.”


Tobias chuckled past the fear rattling his bones, shoving Raphael’s shoulder before heading down the corridor. He wound through the space, hurrying down staircases until the brothel’s entryway opened up around him. Arranging his hood and cowl, he kept his head low as he charged past moaning and thrusting, the smell of wine and sweat heavy in the air. The double doors appeared ahead, and he pushed them open, the sun’s rays blasting over him.


Sand crunched beneath his sandals, a soft scream as he made his way down the road. The southern humidity was particularly smothering, the bodies around him like swarms of locusts. How naked he was, despite the cloak draping his shoulders and cowl hoisted over his nose. Surely no one would recognize him by his gaze alone, but it was hard to feel at ease with his name plastered across each shopfront.


TOBIAS KAYA


FUGITIVE


Pigs stinking of shit grunted from the back of a cart. Tobias wasn’t particularly comfortable with swine since the Sovereign’s Tournament, but he lingered behind them, hoping their smell would keep the masses far from his path. Countless people stretched into the distance, and he searched their faces—the robust woman, curly-haired and armed with an axe, sitting in front of the butchery, the shorter man in the brown cloak standing across the road, face hidden behind a cowl not unlike Tobias’s. Everyone appeared so . . . ordinary. He cursed under his breath. How was he to find these coverts when they looked just like everybody else?


A barley vendor barked something about a lower price for bulk purchases, and while Tobias feigned interest, his eyes continued to wander. There—two more cloaked men, one tall, the other stout, leaned against a shopfront, hands resting over their hips conspicuously, as if they were concealing weapons. They whispered to one another—perhaps about Tobias. They weren’t looking his way, but he couldn’t help studying them, scanning for a hint of silver.


A scream cut through the air. An older woman tumbled out of a shopfront, her hair streaked grey much like his mother’s. She toppled onto the road as two armored soldiers followed. They laughed uproariously with chalices in hand, their uneven footing revealing their drunken stupor.


The woman scrambled to her feet, and Tobias flinched when one of the soldiers slapped her. Wailing, the woman cowered, and the second soldier scooped her up with his free hand, sloshing the contents of his chalice down her arm. He fumbled with her apron, searching and prodding, while the whole town stood frozen, spectators to the woman’s pain. Grunting, the soldier ripped something from the woman’s waist—a worn, flat purse—then tossed her aside, leaving her strewn across the road, an afterthought compared to the paltry coin she carried. Still, the townspeople did nothing.


Tobias did nothing.


A slow growing flame spread down his throat, his chest, his fists.


“Are you buying?” the barley vendor barked.


Tobias abandoned the cart, keeping pace with the pounding of his heart. The soldiers teetered through the road, splitting the throng of townsfolk down the middle as if the air they breathed was a contagion. All the while Tobias trailed them, tracing their stumbling figures with his glare, obeying the savage impulse within. The woman fell to the ground repeatedly behind his eyes—eyes that were on the purse dangling from the soldier’s belt. There couldn’t have been more than five coins in there. When the soldiers skittered down the back alleyway of a watering hole, Tobias grabbed his blade from its sheath and followed.


Their guffaws echoed off the plaster walls, nonsense from where Tobias stood. He didn’t bother to hide himself as they were lost in their senseless prattle, too drunk to notice or care. The first soldier had his back toward Tobias, hunched over in a belly laugh. Tobias ducked low, slashing behind his knees.


The soldier cried out, buckling beneath his weight and straight into Tobias’s arms. Tobias held the man firm and whipped his blade across his throat. Stupefied, the second soldier fumbled for his spear, and Tobias used the bungle to his advantage, kicking him to his hands and knees. Something poisonous boiled within him. He drew his sword, slamming it deep into the soft spot between the soldier’s neck and shoulder—a quick kill, piercing his heart and slicing his innards in two. Leila had taught him that, and he’d found it oddly impressive, inspired by Her unapologetic readiness to spill blood.


Crimson crept across the ground, wetting his toes. The heat within him died, and his mind returned soon after. Two men lay dead at his feet, and Tobias’s hands were painted red.


The air around Tobias became thick. This was a mistake. He was a fugitive, and there were coverts in town vying for his head. None of this was part of his plan. I can shadow walk away. Except he hadn’t told Leila of his mission, and She hadn’t blessed him. Swallowing, he wiped his palms on one of the soldier’s sleeves, then did the same with his weapons. His hands were shaking. What had come over him?


Berating himself, Tobias darted from the alleyway, flinching when the sunlight bled over him. As he hurried across the road, his gaze flitted from shopfront to shopfront, intent to find anything suspicious or damning.


Two cloaked men stood in the distance, one tall, the other stout. He’d seen them before, and there they were yet again, except now they were staring at him. No, they’re not. Are they? He recognized the gait of an armed man, and when their hands swept toward their waists, he could’ve sworn they each gripped at a hilt. Tobias turned the corner.


Shit. He fought to still his thoughts, searching for logic amid the chaos of his mind. Perhaps they were traders. Plenty of civilians armed themselves. Tobias stopped short, pretending to adjust his belt while peering behind him.


Dust clouded his vision, but their visages filtered through the haze—the two cloaked men had turned into three, swords on display.


Tobias swerved down the nearest corner. This was all his doing—he had no one but himself and his impulses to blame. When had he become so volatile, so out of control? He peered over his shoulder at the densely filled road. The three hooded men stalked a distance behind him, but a fourth, equally imposing man appeared from an alleyway. Tobias took a sharp turn down the neighboring road, fists balled at his sides. One more glance in their direction, and his stomach clenched.


There were six of them.


Tobias hadn’t needed to take the multiple turns to prove they were following him, but the confirmation rattled him all the same. Six trained killers in a fight against Tobias—an impossible task, certainly while he was out in the open, a spectacle for every townsperson to see.


Treetops peeked above nearby shops. The woods weren’t much farther, his singular chance for cover. An isolated place to die. No, an isolated place to lure them, to lessen their numbers and lead them far from Leila. He glanced over his shoulder one last time. The coverts walked in conspicuous formation a fair distance behind him. He hurried down the road, veering into an alleyway before disappearing into the thick of the woods.


Heart thudding in his ears, he raced through the brush. Think. He had to lead them astray, to give them a reason to scatter. He wound among the trees, creating tracks that led to nowhere, camouflaging what he could of his true trail with what little time he had. Breathless, he ducked behind a gnarled trunk, pressing his back to its surface.


Silence cloaked the woods. Tobias’s lungs screamed for air, but he kept himself still, numb to his deprivation. He’d aged a century before something caught his ear—the light crackle of a footfall, and then another. Tobias bit down on his lip, pulling his blade from its sheath with delicate slowness.


A man slipped into view, treading past Tobias’s hiding place. A blade much like his own was nestled in the covert’s hand, and he searched the woods ahead—and nothing behind. His slate hood hung down his back, giving a clear view of his unruly brown hair, and more importantly, his bare neck.


Tobias crept forward, timing his footfalls with those of his mark. Just a few paces closer. He held his breath, his insides howling for bloodshed. Another step, and the man was a whisper away. With one swift movement, Tobias slashed the covert’s throat.


The man flailed, grasping at his opened flesh before crumpling to the ground. Tobias wiped his blade on his pantleg, madly scanning the surrounding woods. Five men remained, and he was exposed, an easy target. Brush fluttered in the distance. There wasn’t time for false tracks. Sheathing his weapon, Tobias plowed through the woods.


His heartbeat echoed in his mind, but he needed silence. He’d never had so many adversaries at once, and he was without assistance save for whatever remained of Leila’s light pulsing through his veins. Hot air burned his throat, but still he dashed between the trees, searching for flashes of steel. Footsteps broke through the noise, and Tobias braced himself for blood.


A man with a shaved head barreled his way, spittle flying as he let out a war cry. Tobias swerved past his assault, blocking the covert’s weapon. Growling, he shoved the man’s weight from his sword, but the covert was nimble, readying himself without delay. He brandished his weapon, sending Tobias dodging to the left, the right. Another strong swing, and Tobias ducked low, slamming his sword beneath the man’s rib cage.


The covert sucked in a swift breath. Tobias pulled him close, drawing his seeping chest to the hilt, waiting until his eyelids turned heavy. His body was a boulder sinking to the ground, leaving a trail of hot blood streaking Tobias’s tunic—another kill, but far from victory.


Footsteps thundered in the distance. One man appeared through the brush, and then a second. Tension shot down Tobias’s spine as the remaining coverts from different vantage points barreled through the woods, armed and ravenous.


Four men, and one of him.


Tobias slid his sword free of the corpse, wet fingers tight around the hilt as he prepared for a battle he was doomed to lose.


The first man came in with power devoid of control, wielding his sword like a rabid beast. Tobias dipped and dodged, one eye trained on the thrashing steel while the other traced the remaining coverts. He kicked out the soldier’s knee, sending him faceplanting. Footfalls sounded behind Tobias, and he spun on his heel, trusting intuition over sight as he thrust his sword forward. Something heavy landed on his blade—a cloaked man stuck on Tobias’s sword. Tobias kicked him free from his weapon, readying himself for the next offense.


A fist plowed into Tobias’s temple. He stumbled, nearly toppling until a flash of silver bolted toward him. He jerked away in time for the sword to slash his stomach, leaving behind a sizzling sting.


He resisted the urge to cringe, pacing in a circle as he eyed his opposition. Three untouched men stood readied, swords drawn and lips twisted into self-assured smirks. If it wasn’t his life at stake, Tobias would’ve laughed at the odds—three coverts against a bleeding artist.


He launched his sword.


A clank reverberated through the woods. The covert deflected, his stance hard, assured, and lacking the wear weighing down Tobias. Another blow sent him skittering through the dirt, but he used the distance to his advantage, throwing himself into his swing and sending the man tumbling to the ground. There wasn’t time for Tobias to right himself, as a second covert was already on top of him. Tobias lunged, relying on power and might only to be met by an arm more powerful, mightier. Pain spiked through his torn flesh, every move he made torturous. Forcing back an agonized cry, he fought against each strike, but the blows came in harder and heavier, bringing him to his knees.


The covert hovered over Tobias, grinning victoriously. Bellowing a war cry, he thrust his sword down, only to slam it into the dirt as Tobias rolled out of its way. The covert was hunched and befuddled, and Tobias took the opportunity to slam his heel into his eye, collapsing him. Another covert ran toward him, and Tobias ripped one of his blades from its sheath, launching it at his latest foe. The blade stuck in the man’s gut, and he crumpled into a pile as Tobias hobbled to his feet.


Sharpened steel ripped through Tobias’s ribs—another hit. Tobias gripped at the wound, only for another slice to tear through his arm, forcing a tormented howl from his throat. He dodged the next assault and readied his sword, but two rough hands grabbed him from behind and held him firm. Growling, Tobias twisted and lurched, but the covert tightened his grip, digging deep into the fresh wound cutting through Tobias’s biceps. Profanities spewed from Tobias’s lips, and his heart lurched when he dropped his sword.


Throwing his head back, Tobias bashed the covert in the face. His skull throbbed, but he was free in time to dodge the next man headed his way. He ducked beneath the covert’s sword again and again, then dove forward, shoving him against a tree. Grappling with his opponent, Tobias fought to pin him in place, galvanized once the man’s sword slipped from his grasp. He jabbed the covert in the mouth and the gut, taking full advantage as his enemy went loose in his arms. There wasn’t time to waste. Tobias pulled his second blade free and stabbed at the covert’s throat, tearing the wound wide.


A heel jabbed at the back of Tobias’s knees, dropping him to the ground. He tumbled over his fresh kill, barely on his hands and knees before a foot pounded his ribs. Tobias collapsed with a hard smack. Just one last kill. That’s all that remained, but as he patted his thighs, his hope died. His blades were lodged in his victims spread through the dirt. His sword was paces away, strewn amid the leaves. He lunged for it only to stop short, deadly still.


The tip of a sword was pointed at his throat.


The final covert stood over him, unmarked save for his rapidly swelling eye. Tobias’s lungs heaved. He had no move, no counter.


No option but death.


Another man appeared through the trees, and Tobias’s stomach sank. There were seven men. He’d miscounted. The man was shorter and wide, a brown cloak covering his head and shoulders—a familiar figure from town, one Tobias had assessed and forgotten. He came in behind the armed covert, nearly concealed by the man’s imposing frame.


Two men were here to kill Tobias. God, he wasn’t even close.


The second man wrenched the covert’s neck with both hands, snapping it with a sharp crack.


The covert and his sword toppled to the ground, a lifeless pile at Tobias’s knees. He stared for a moment at his fallen adversary, his mind at a standstill. The man in the brown cloak waited in silence, and Tobias could see him clearly—a face he knew well, plucked from his memories.


“Friend.” Enzo broke the silence, his thick accent an unexpected comfort. He gestured at the dead bodies surrounding them. “Like old times, eh?”


Fallen coverts surrounded him, limp and mangled. So much carnage. As Tobias’s breathing began to slow and shoulders loosened, he looked to Enzo. “It’s good to see you.”


A gap-toothed grin split Enzo’s face, and he spread his arms wide. “Eh?”


Chuckling, Tobias slowly, painfully stood, wincing as Enzo wrapped him in a too-firm hug.



OceanofPDF.com

c2XY
    
  


  


Chapter 16

Leila


Light poured from Leila’s palms, cauterizing Tobias’s ribs. His wounds were foul, enough to worry Her had it not been for the promise of Her holy bidding. He’d walk away from Her touch haggard and sore, but his marks would heal in two days’ time, maybe less. He shouldn’t be marked at all. Leila grumbled under Her breath. Tobias’s journey into town had been impulsive, even reckless, and without Her blessing, he was lucky to be alive.


Leila shook Herself. He was alive, and that’s what mattered. Danger was inevitable in their conditions. Her concerns were better directed elsewhere—not toward Tobias’s torn flesh, but the Kovahrian guard he’d procured along the way.


Enzo didn’t look quite as Leila remembered from the tournament. His body was just as thick with musculature, his frame short but wide with sinewy strength. But his formerly bald head was covered in a layer of cedar-brown stubble, and his slate eyes and pinkish complexion were no longer his most unusual features. Silver rods, hoops, and baubles decorated his face and chest—piercing the center of each of his eyebrows, lodged through the septum and bridge of his nose, monopolizing his ears, and hanging like door knockers from his nipples. At first She wasn’t sure why he was shirtless at all, but the sweat dripping down his back was a fierce reminder of his frigid homeland, as were the flaking red patches on his shoulders.


“How long have you been searching for us?”


Leila opted to end the silence, as Tobias was busy clenching beneath Her touch and Raphael was donning that skeptical expression he often wore. They circled the foreign guard, waiting impatiently as he devoured an entire roasted hen. Enzo sat with his legs spread wide, speaking between loud, gargantuan bites. Kovahrians weren’t particularly known for their manners.


“Since tournament end.” Enzo paused, sucking his oily fingers one at a time. “I think, men follow Savior. I follow men. I find Savior. Easy peasy.”


“You’ve certainly traveled quite a way from Kovahr in such a short time,” Raphael said, eyes narrowed.


“I saw you in town, following me along with the coverts.” Tobias winced as Leila’s light intensified. “Why’d it take you so long to help me?”


Picking meat from between his teeth, Enzo shrugged. “I was distracted.”


“What kind of distraction could’ve been that important?”


“I had to shit.”


Tobias started. “I almost died because you were taking a shit?”


“What should I do? You want me to shit myself while I kill these men? You would allow me such disgrace?”


“All right, let’s talk about something other than shit,” Raphael said. “You’re here to aid our endeavor, yes?”


“What is this question?” Enzo scoffed, waving a chicken bone like a sword. “I kill this soldier. I kill much other soldiers. Pah, of course I come to save.”


“It was you.” Leila’s voice was soft, Her mind turning over Her sister’s claims from just days ago. “You’re the one who’s been killing Brontes’s units.”


“Your father’s soldiers, they very rude.” His greasy hands fluttered as he spoke. “They search for Savior, then go to town, drinking and fucking. Frighten the people, take their coin.” A grin split his face. “So, I spill much blood. Hapa!” He pounded his chest. “It warms the belly.”


Raphael leaned back in his seat, looking Enzo over with an assessing gaze. “Well, it’ll be good to have a warrior on our side.”


“I think Leila and I have been serving us well thus far,” Tobias said.


“I mean an actual warrior.”


“Do you have any comprehension of how long Leila’s been fighting⁠—?”


“What did you have in mind?” Leila spoke swiftly, eager to end an argument before it began. “For saving us, as you put it. What is your plan?”


Enzo sucked a bone clean, then tossed it aside. “It is simple. I take You to Kovahr. Bring You to my queen. She will be much pleased. You will be safe. It is, uh, how you say . . . good for both.”


“Mutually beneficial.”


“Yes. That.”


“Does your queen know you’re here?” Tobias said. “Does she know we’re coming?”


“She will welcome holy queen of Thessen with much honor.”


“Brontes plans to kill Me and frame your realm.” Leila abandoned Her perch at Tobias’s side, no doubt to his relief, and stood before Enzo. “He aims to incite war—to blame your queen for My death, then attack Kovahr and the other ally realms one by one. Does she know this? Your queen?”


“She does not say.”


“Do you think that’s why she sent you to the tournament? Did she suspect something?”


Enzo offered another shrug. “I am not told.”


Not one waft of color, not even a scent. Leila could touch him and remove all doubt, but She resisted. She hadn’t known Enzo well or for long, but their poignant moment together in the labyrinth replayed in Her mind, as did his forthcoming vulnerability. It wasn’t like Her to trust, but Her gut was in rare form, urging Her to accept him as he was. What other advantage could he possibly gain from Her company?


“If she supports our cause,” Leila began, “allows us command of the Kovahrian army, unites with us as one, we can save your realm along with Mine.”


“It’s perfect,” Raphael said. He turned to Enzo. “Your queen will agree, will she not? Otherwise Brontes will destroy Kovahr.”


Enzo barked out a laugh. “No one destroy Kovahr, realm of warriors.”


“Brontes has the entire Thessian armed forces plus countless sellswords—an army unmatched in size.” When Enzo didn’t react, Raphael continued. “He plans to win with numbers. To dwarf your military and swallow it whole.”


“If he dishonor Kovahr, I slit his throat and bathe in blood.”


“It’s a bit more complicated than that⁠—”


“Do you think she’ll align with us?” Leila’s sharp tone revealed Her impatience. Managing bickering men felt an awful lot like wrangling children, and She had no desire for motherhood yet. “Naturally, the Kovahrian army is unmatched, but we offer vital information.”


“Not to mention magic,” Tobias said.


Enzo tossed the last of his bones aside, wiping his hands on his pants before standing upright. “You see? Good for both. We go to Kovahr. We crush sovereign. We drag his corpse through road until snow is red with⁠—”


“Blood, yes, we know.” The skepticism had disappeared from Raphael’s eyes, replaced with the blankness that came with his approval. “So, this is it. A proper plan. Coin is no longer an issue because we haven’t a need to purchase an army.”


“I’ll give Enzo the gift of shadow walking,” Leila said. “He’s lived in Kovahr his whole life. He can see it in his mind’s eye. We can arrive there in moments.”


“Eh, shadow walk?” Enzo raised an eyebrow. “I do not know this⁠—”


“Will your queen allow for the safekeeping of My staff?” Leila spun toward Enzo. “Not too many. Just forty or so.”


“Forty?”


“They’re in dire need, I assure you.”


He let out a laugh. “One thing at a time, eh?”


Her eyes narrowed. “Did you hear Me say they’re in dire need?”


“It’s fine,” Tobias cut in. “They can stay here at the brothel. In time, I’m sure we’ll be able to take them to Kovahr. Even if his queen resists, we can likely sway her. She seemed to like me enough.”


“So, it’s settled.” Raphael stood, dusting his hands off on his pants. “Call for Yucana and Naomi. We’ll gather our things and leave now.”


“Now?” Leila scoffed, thrown by his words. “You can’t be serious.”


“Clearly we can’t stay here,” Raphael said. “Coverts came to this town, and now they’re dead. What if more follow their trail, or soldiers hear of their disappearance?”


Leila resisted the urge to curse aloud. He was right, and Her nerves skittered beneath Her flesh. “I gave My staff three days to organize.”


“They can organize while we’re safely in Kovahr.”


“No.” She shook Her head. “I won’t leave without first knowing they’re safe. I refuse.”


“Eh”—Enzo glanced between the three of them, eyebrows knitted together—“I am confuse.”


“We haven’t the time.” Raphael turned to Leila, his voice low and placating. “I know You aim for mercy, and it is noble indeed.”


“Condescension will get you nowhere,” She growled.


“There are six dead coverts buried in the woods!” Raphael flung his arms overhead. “I am not aiming to offend, but we have to be realistic. This brothel isn’t home for us any longer⁠—”


“We free them tonight,” Tobias said.


The room fell silent. Enzo remained a vision of utter bewilderment, beady eyes flitting from face to face, but Tobias stood tall and assured.


“I beg your pardon?” Leila said.


“We can’t leave the staff under Brontes’s control. It’s inhumane.” He held Leila’s gaze with a commanding look. “But each second we stay here is a second closer to the grave. We have to leave as soon as possible. By the morn, ideally.”


“That’s what I was saying,” Raphael mumbled.


Tobias came in closer, and Leila was suddenly starkly aware of his size, as if he’d grown in height and breadth in that very moment. “We save Your family first. But as soon as they’re settled here, we leave for Kovahr. It’s the only way.”


“I told Delphi three days,” Leila said. “There isn’t enough time.”


“In three days, this brothel could be filled with coverts or soldiers.” His blackish eyes became penetrating. “No one is searching for servants. Your staff will have no trouble blending in with the courtesans. But You and I don’t have that choice.”


Raphael cleared his throat, glancing between them both. “He’s right.”


“You’re meeting with Delphi at sunset, yes?” Tobias said. “You can tell her then. Plans have changed. We free them at nightfall.”


“So, between sunset and nightfall, My sister needs to alert the entirety of My loyal staff to gather their things and prepare for escape,” Leila groused.


“It’s our only option.”


“And if some of them are forgotten? Lost amid the madness?”


“I’d argue a few lives lost isn’t nearly as costly as losing them all,” Raphael said.


Leila shot him a glare. “Thank you for your valuable contribution.”


The only option. She replayed those words in Her mind as her emotions flitted from excitement to fear. They had refuge. Her family would return to Her, yet the impromptu nature of their escape left Her on edge. There could be no mistakes.


“So . . .” Tobias’s voice lingered, delicate and uncertain. “Do we have a plan?”


Leila’s eyes traced the skyline as the sun sank toward the horizon. She hadn’t even a full day to save Her family.


Such was the duty of a queen.


“Yes,” She said. “We free them tonight.”





“It’s impossible. You can’t be serious.”


Delphi’s words echoed in Leila’s mind. Their watchtower meeting had gone exactly as She’d expected—wrought with panic and expletives.


Delphi had insisted there wasn’t enough time, a claim Leila assured her wasn’t true. If anyone could manage the haste, it was Delphi. She convinced Her sister and sent her on her way, praying to God their circumstances hadn’t turned Her into a liar.


Leila stood in the small patch of woodland behind the brothel, cloak draped over Her shoulders and eyes trained on the last speck of sun as it trickled from view. Their meeting had been at sunset, and the escape would be at nightfall. That meant Delphi had little time to gather the staff. Leila had hoped for an hour, but barely half that amount of time had passed, and darkness was already descending. Perhaps it was pitch black at the palace already, Her staff seconds away from being hacked and bloodied by the guards’ blades.


A strong hand pressed against Leila’s back. Tobias didn’t lean too close, as if he was preparing for his role, giving space for Her crown while still longing to comfort. A hint of a smile graced his lips. “It’ll be good to see Delphi again.”


He was saying it for Leila’s benefit. His compassion warmed Her, but Her worries spiraled nonetheless. She paced past the brush, pretending to be more consumed by Her cuticles than the task at hand.


“The sun is nearly gone. I imagine it’s nightfall at the palace.” Raphael looked to Leila. “Shall we proceed?”


He was right, of course. The palace was certainly cloaked in darkness, but Delphi hadn’t had ample time to prepare. “A minute longer,” Leila said.


Tobias reached for Her hand, but She resumed Her pacing. God, this was fucked. Of course Yucana and Naomi had to bear witness to Her shortcomings as they waited at Raphael’s side with baskets of bread and gourds of water—offerings for servants Leila may or may not be able to rescue. She shook Herself. This will work. It has to.


Pushing Her worries down into Her belly, She nestled beside Enzo, the only one among them who seemed at ease. He nodded as She took root at his side, his voice coming out in a low rumble. “Your Holiness.”


“Stop that, please.” She eyed the hoop dangling from his nipple, then the rods in his ears. “Where were these during the tournament?”


Enzo let out a snort. “Warrior does not battle with nahvalya.” His hands came to life, acting out his words. “You pull, and man bleeds. You yank, and flesh rips⁠—”


“Suddenly I understand perfectly. Thank you.”


“Leila.” Tobias cocked his head toward the skyline. “It’s nearly time.”


The sun had turned into a needle’s width of light, the sky mostly black. Leila took in an unsteady breath, then pulled Her hood low over Her face. “Stand ready.” She met Tobias’s gaze. “I’m going now.”


“Be safe,” he said.


Balling Her hands into fists, She closed Her eyes, summoning the blaze of Her power.


Naomi leaned toward Raphael and whispered, “How many people are we expecting?”


Light burst through Leila, setting Her aflame. The ground beneath Her disappeared as She became weightless, Her untethered form burning past the confines of flesh and blood. Just as quickly, the tangible world came rushing around Her, dank and smelling of ruin. Once Her feet touched down onto hard stone, She opened Her eyes.


She stood in the watchtower with Delphi paces away, one arm outstretched and waiting. Her other hand clasped Hylas’s, who held onto Mousumi, who held Faun. A line of people wound through the tower and down the stairwell beyond Leila’s line of sight, hand-in-hand like links in a chain.


Shouting echoed up the stairwell walls, followed by clanking armor and thundering footsteps. Leila took Delphi’s hand.


Take Me back.


White flooded Her vision, dizzying enough to nearly knock Her off center. The cool open air was the first sense to greet Her, followed by the crackle of twigs beneath Her sandals. As Her holy bidding faded, Her sight returned. She was in the woods.


Along with thirty-or-so palace workers and servants.


Raphael muttered, “A lot.”


Leila gasped for air. She hadn’t breathed for an eternity, and each gulp wasn’t nearly enough. Delphi still clasped Her hand, their interlocked fingers trembling.


“Leila. Thank God.”


Delphi’s fast embrace awakened Leila from Her stupor. Her sister was far beyond the confines of the palace, free from the underground tunnels. Before reality could truly set in, Hylas pulled Her away, flinging his arms around Her and nearly toppling Her with his lanky height. Leila inspected his swollen eye and split lip, then jumped as screams tore through the woods. Four familiar women clustered together—Nyx, Hemera, Damaris, and Faun, their maniacal eyes on Her.


“She’s promised!” they squealed.


Servants swarmed Her, cupping Her cheeks and smiling in relief, but She was frantic. Her gaze flitted from face to face, counting them again and again. Someone was missing. She pushed through the throng, prying hands from Her body while Her insides withered. As terror gripped Her, She spun toward Delphi.


“Where’s Pippa?”



OceanofPDF.com

c31X
    
  


  


The Dungeon

Tobias writhed as the warden strapped his ankles and wrists to the stone slab table. It didn’t do Tobias any good, as his strength had long been depleted. Every inch of his body was on fire, debased and violated in some manner. His fingertips and toes were coated in blood, scabbed over where his nails used to be. Gashes atop gashes crisscrossed his back, a mess of tatters that left little of his flesh unmarred. He’d lost count of his broken bones, and dirt festered in his seeping wounds. If Brontes’s goal was to strip him of his humanity, he had achieved it.


“You’re testing my patience.”


Brontes leaned against the dungeon wall beside his line of guards. His arms were crossed over his pristine red drape, his crown firmly in place amid his greying curls. He’d worn that wretched thing each day, perhaps to remind Tobias of his power. Maybe to remind himself.


“Your life is of little import. I believe I’ve made that clear.” Brontes stalked closer, stopping at his warden’s side. “If anything, your death would give me great pleasure.”


“So kill me, then.”


Brontes’s eye narrowed. Tobias was shamed by how much he’d come to fear that expression, but next to the hulking warden and his haunting leather mask, the sovereign was meager in comparison.


“Where is my daughter?” Brontes asked. “The woman who abandoned you. The very reason you’re here with me.”


Tobias braced himself for whatever was to come next. Brontes waited a few agonizing seconds, then nodded at the warden, who pulled a long blade from his belt.


The steel tore slowly through the dirtied skin along Tobias’s ribs. He’d tried to stifle it, had bit down on his tongue hard enough to draw blood, but a cry ripped from his throat. Sweat stung his eyes, but he fought to keep them open, glancing between Brontes and the warden, the crown and the mask.


“She did that to you.” Brontes leaned in close enough for Tobias to feel the heat of his breath. “Each broken bone, each mark on your flesh was Her doing. Had She never plagued your life, would you be lying here?”


Tobias stilled himself, looking Brontes hard in the eye.


“End your suffering,” Brontes said. “Tell me where She is.”


Tobias said nothing, already readied when the blade carved into his body, its sharpened tip moving with excruciating slowness that left him rasping for air.


“You’re wasting no one’s time but your own.” Brontes spoke impassively, taking root against the wall once again. “Whether it’s today or tomorrow, I will find Her.”


Tobias grunted past his pain. “If you’re so confident, why do you need me at all?”


“My army will scour⁠—”


“Your army is shit,” Tobias hissed. “All these soldiers at your disposal and nothing to show for it. She’s evaded you for months.”


“They found you.”


“I thought my life was of little import?”


Brontes’s unblinking gaze bore through Tobias, burrowing into his empty gut. This look was unfamiliar, and it terrified him.


“His manhood.” Brontes turned to the warden. “Cut it off.”


Tobias lurched from the stone slab, pain be damned. The restraints kept him contained, but that didn’t stop him from wrestling and pulling, reopening each wound that marked his body. The masked man grabbed the front of Tobias’s pants, cock locked tight in his fist, and Tobias couldn’t stop the scream that bellowed from his throat. As tears sprang from his eyes, the warden positioned his blade at the base of his shaft, ready to carve through it.


He stopped short, frozen while Tobias squirmed in his grasp.


“You hesitate?” Brontes said.


“He will die from the loss of blood, Your Majesty.” The warden’s voice was deep, muffled by the leather covering his mouth. “Is that what you desire?”


The silence howled in Tobias’s ears. He trembled against the slab, overwhelmed by the instinct to fight or flee, his wrists worn raw beneath their restraints.


Brontes growled and turned away. Only then did the warden release Tobias’s manhood, but the relief was short-lived as Brontes’s voice rang out.


“Grab the pliers.”


The warden disappeared from view, only to return with a new device in hand—rusted metal spattered with browned blood.


“Open him up,” Brontes ordered.


Large fingers dug into Tobias’s mouth, and though he tried to force his jaw shut, it didn’t take long for the masked man to pry his lips apart. Tobias hacked and choked as Brontes stalked into view.


“The next time I see you, I want you to think about this moment.” The sovereign’s tone was impassive. “Only you can end your suffering. Remember that.”


He leaned forward, pliers in hand, and Tobias shook within his restraints. The metal made contact with his teeth, and he screamed as they ripped a molar free from his gums, a slow torment that vibrated through him. Brontes set his sights on a second tooth, then a final one, and Tobias’s throat turned raw from howling, his tongue swimming in the metallic taste of blood.


Tobias was barely aware of his surroundings once the torture ended, overwhelmed by his agonized jaw and heaving lungs. Bearlike hands untied his restraints and pulled him from the table, and he didn’t resist, not while he was dragged across the floor nor while the door was locked behind him. The world thrummed around him, and he wasn’t sure if seconds or hours had passed when the dungeon finally began to take proper shape. The cells were lined up like soldiers, each just like the next with its own waste bucket and stark black bars. He’d expected the view to change. Maybe he’d find himself in bed with Leila, roused after a horrible nightmare. Instead, he vomited hot blood, reigniting his countless wounds with aches and pangs.


A soft sound stilled him. A whisper. No, a whimper. All that surrounded him were the hard dirt floor, the bars of his cell, the discarded pile of rags in the cell beside him. Another quiet moan broke through the silence, and despite his swollen eyes, Tobias could’ve sworn the rags trembled. The pile was a woman huddled on the floor, hands clasped over her head. Matted blonde hair poked out from between her dirtied fingers, and blue-green eyes rimmed with tears gazed back at him. Tobias sucked in a shaky breath, barely able to croak her name.


“Pippa?”



OceanofPDF.com

c339
    
  


  


Chapter 17

Tobias


“She’s all right.”


Tobias nearly winced over Delphi’s words. She had made that claim multiple times already, but Leila remained inconsolable. She’d spent most of the night teetering between fury and despair, and though they had delayed their journey for a good night’s sleep, sleep never came. How could it? Leila’s sister was imprisoned by Her murderous father. Nothing could soften such a cruel blow.


“She’s alone with no one to look after her.” Leila dug Her nails into the table’s edge. “How is that all right?”


Tobias pried Leila’s grip from the wood and held Her hand tight. The three of them sat in the kitchen pantry, a muddled mess with Tobias thrust in the middle. He tried to coax Leila to eat, but Her pastries remained untouched. She was crumbling, and he hadn’t a solution to piece Her back together.


He looked to Delphi. “You’re certain you tried everything?”


“He took her right after the Culmination, as soon as he learned you’d both disappeared,” Delphi said. “I didn’t have the chance to save her. It was already too late.”


Leila’s lip wobbled. “She’s going to die because of Me.”


“I’ve told You, she’ll be fine. He’s watching over her.”


“Brontes watches over no one⁠—”


“Not Brontes,” Delphi said. “Your little friend.”


Little friend? Tobias glanced at Leila, then Delphi, then Leila again. They seemed to know exactly what was going on, but he didn’t have a clue.


Leila took in a slow breath. “So, she’s in the dungeon.”


“She’s in the safest place she can be for now.” Delphi reached across the table for Leila’s hands, though She promptly balled them in Her lap. Delphi’s expression softened. “He will protect her. You know that better than anyone.”


“I’ll just shadow walk there,” Leila said. “In and out.”


“It’s not that simple.”


“But isn’t it? I did the same for you just the other night.”


Delphi’s eyes became stricken as if a blade were pressed to her throat.


Leila’s gaze darkened. “Delphi . . . where exactly is she?”


The next stretch of silence lasted for an eternity or longer. Swallowing, Delphi choked out her words. “She’s not in the dungeon. I mean, perhaps she is, just not the one beneath the palace grounds.”


“You don’t know where she is, do you?”


“She and Talos were removed together,” Delphi confirmed. “I haven’t seen them since.”


Leila said nothing. She had insisted Tobias stay by Her side, but he was a boulder wedged between two sisters. Perhaps that was exactly what Leila wanted, but he felt useless all the same.


Tobias cleared his throat, tiptoeing his way into the conversation. “So, this ‘little friend’ . . . is that Talos?”


“Yes,” Delphi said. “You know him.”


“I don’t think I do⁠—”


“I know I should’ve told You.” Delphi ignored Tobias, fighting to recapture Leila’s line of sight. “But You were managing so much already. The last thing You needed⁠—”


“Was a dead sister.”


“She’s not dead, Leila. Please.”


“I can’t . . .” Leila’s breathing wavered. “You should’ve told Me.”


“I was trying—” Delphi stopped short as Leila fled from the table. “Leila, please!”


Tobias shot up from his seat, following Leila as She plowed up the stairs and down the corridor to their chamber. She was already seated on their bed by the time he arrived, Her face cradled in Her palms.


“Leila.” Tobias knelt before Her, taking Her hand in his. “Darling, breathe.”


She shook Her head as She stared at the floor. “This is all My fault.”


“No one is to blame for Brontes’s behavior but himself.” He took Her chin, tilting Her gaze toward his. “Do You understand? This isn’t Your burden to bear.”


“But isn’t it? She’s My sister.”


Her eyes were glistening, and it pulled at something in Tobias’s stomach. “Do you trust Talos?”


“He’s the only man in my life who’s ever cared for Me besides you.”


“Then Pippa must be in the safest of hands.”


She offered the feeblest nod, a fleeting moment of stoicism before tears brimmed in Her eyes.


“Darling . . .” Tobias scooped Her into his arms, tucking his chin atop Her shoulder. She’d been so strong and resilient for much of their journey, but Her armor had been stripped away.


Leila clutched at the back of his tunic, burrowing Her face in his neck. “I can’t believe Delphi didn’t tell Me.”


“If You had known sooner, would You have done anything differently?”


“I would’ve rescued her!”


“How?” Tobias said. “You heard Delphi—she was taken right after the Culmination. We’re not certain where she is.” He pressed a kiss against Her knuckles. “There’s nothing we can do. Not now, at least. Once we have an army, we’ll rescue Pippa. Together. I promise.”


She nodded along, and Tobias was both pained and relieved by Her reluctant acceptance. She gripped his hand, nails digging into his flesh, and he welcomed the gentle ache. If she was breaking, he’d have to be that much stronger.


“Try not to be angry with Delphi for too long. We’ve all made compromising decisions as of late. I have faith her intentions were pure.”


Leila was quiet for a long while before saying, “I think I need to be alone for a while.”


Biting back his concerns, Tobias stood. “If that changes, You know where to find me.”


Leila didn’t respond, so Tobias left Her with Her thoughts and headed back to the pantry. He hadn’t any place else to go. There were plans in motion and maneuvers to discuss, but Pippa’s disappearance had overshadowed all else. The Sovereign’s Tournament replayed in his mind, how Pippa had shown him the first spark of kindness in those wretched tunnels, how she’d warned him of tainted food, albeit too late. He didn’t love her as Leila did, but it was hard to envision her in such dire circumstances.


Tobias took a seat at his usual table, exhaling as he kneaded his temples. Delphi was still waiting where they had left her, dragging a strawberry through a pool of honey.


“She’s angry with me,” she said.


“You can’t exactly fault Her.”


“She had so many worries⁠—”


“I know,” Tobias said. “I understand your reasons. I might’ve done the same, to be honest.” Tobias offered an encouraging smile. “She’ll come around.”


Delphi nodded, but her jaw was clenched tight as if she were holding back much of what she wished to say. “She looks well, otherwise. Thank you for taking care of Her.”


“I’ll take care of Her for the rest of my days.”


“I can see that.” Her eyes locked onto his wrist. Tobias wasn’t yet used to the attention his promise garnered, and he couldn’t help but cross his arms on impulse. Based on her cocksure smirk, Delphi noticed his discomfort, but she didn’t speak of it.


“I’m glad you’re all right,” he said.


“All right?” She gestured toward the brothel around them. “Tobias, I’m fabulous.”


He let out a laugh, indulging her lie. He couldn’t fault her pretense when he was hiding behind his own.


“Your Highness?”


Tobias stiffened as Brontes’s face filled the corners of his mind. He hadn’t heard the sovereign’s title in ages, and those two words were enough to bring the black bricks of the labyrinth crashing down around him.


“Your Highness.”


Tobias flinched. The voice grew more pointed, pulling him from his dark thoughts. Three women stood at the pantry entrance, and despite their change in attire, Tobias recognized several of them from his time in the palace—namely the servant with the cherubic face and blue eyes pointed his way.


“Are you talking to me?” he said.


Damaris bowed, leaving him with a view of her tightly coiled auburn bun. “Yes, Your Highness.”


“Why are you calling me that?”


“You’re the sovereign now. Well, nearly.” Damaris’s eyes drifted to his promise, and her plump cheeks flushed. “Certainly a finer sovereign than the one we have currently.”


A second woman with chin-length black hair and light brown skin nestled beside her. “Some sovereign. He’s a blasphemer.”


Her exact likeness, save for her long hair and sharp bangs, appeared at her side. “No he’s not!”


Tobias sighed. He’d experienced these sorts of disagreements between Nyx and Hemera before, as the twins were alike in appearance and nothing else. As expected, Nyx’s eyebrows narrowed, and she shot her sister a glare. “He most certainly is.”


“The Artist has been faithful to Leila from the very beginning,” Hemera said.


“But he assumed She was someone else, and thus was actively blaspheming the woman he believed to be The Savior.”


“But she wasn’t The Savior.”


“But he didn’t know that.” Nyx crossed her arms matter-of-factly. “Thus, a blasphemer.”


“Was there a reason you summoned me?” Tobias said.


The servants went quiet, looking at him as if only just noticing his presence. Damaris smiled. “The Intellect wishes to speak with you.”


She beckoned Tobias, and he followed her obediently, leaving the bickering twins behind. They soon reached the Intellect’s chamber, where Raphael sat across from Enzo, each man the other’s opposite—Raphael’s tall, lean figure and brown skin starkly contrasted Enzo’s short, muscled frame and pinkish hue. Damaris bowed, then smiled, then bowed again, offering Tobias a shy wave before taking leave.


“A real treat, aren’t they?” Raphael said.


“Seems as though they have mixed feelings about me.” A wooden chair sat beside the doorway, and Tobias dragged it toward the men and took a seat. “You called?”


“Any word on Isa?”


A knot tightened in Tobias’s stomach. “They haven’t left their study all day. I don’t think they’ve yet noticed.”


“Yet being the fundamental word here,” Raphael said.


“I’ll handle them.” Tobias sat taller when Raphael’s frown deepened, his defensive instincts taking over. “There are fewer servants than Leila had expected. Besides, they may throw their weight around, but they won’t leave innocent people to the streets to be slaughtered.”


Raphael shook his head. “You don’t know that.”


Enzo pounded his fist into his open palm. “If Isa is problem, I break bones with bare hands.”


“That won’t be necessary,” Tobias said.


“I carve at flesh and wear like coat!”


“No one’s wearing anyone as a coat.” Tobias shook aside his frustration, looking Raphael in the eyes. “The Savior gave an order, and they will obey it, begrudgingly or not.”


The door swung open, slamming against the opposite wall. Tobias staggered from his seat alongside Enzo and Raphael, all three men upright and readied.


Isa stood in the doorway.


“Fuck,” Raphael said.


“You.” Isa pointed a sharp finger at Tobias. “Where is She?”


Tobias squared his shoulders, towering over the holder. “Anything you have to say to Her, you can say to me.”


“Is that so? Then allow me to make good on the promise I made the day you arrived.”


A dagger flicked into their hand. Tobias didn’t see where it came from; Isa wore no scabbards or sleeves, and for a moment he wondered if they had their own brand of magic on their side. Tobias raised his hands, speaking in a low, placating tone. “Set it down.”


“I made myself clear.” Isa inched toward him. “My staff would not be put at risk.”


“And we’ve upheld that arrangement.”


“There are palace servants swarming my establishment.”


Another step forward. Raphael, Enzo, and Tobias paced back as Isa came closer.


“You knew they were coming,” Tobias said. “Her Holiness informed you.”


Isa let out a scoff. “And I informed Her I would allow no such thing.”


“It wasn’t a negotiation. Her word is law.”


“If I have to hear one more thing about Her fucking word⁠—”


“You mind your tone when speaking of The Holy Savior of Thessen,” Raphael spat.


“Do I look of Thessian blood to you?” Using their dagger, they gestured to their Outlandian tattoos. “My allegiance is to my workers and no one else, certainly no queen without a crown.”


Profanities filled Tobias’s mouth, begging for release. Raphael stepped forward, speaking with a level of self-restraint Tobias certainly couldn’t manage. “Crown or none, you live here, on Her land.”


Isa stalked toward them, steadfast and fearless, and their gall emboldened Tobias. Lowering his hands, he came in close. “These servants are trained in all matters of care. They will earn their keep until we’re able to relocate them.” He looked down at Isa, fighting the venom that threatened to spill from his lips. “We have given you nearly all our coin as a gesture of good faith.”


“Your coin is paltry. An insult given the danger you place upon my staff.”


“We are paying their way,” Tobias said. “If we could spare any more⁠—”


“You think coin can keep my workers safe?” Isa hissed. “Can fend off the sovereign’s soldiers? You think coin⁠—?”


“I have coin.”


Tobias and Isa froze, then turned to the man who had upended their dispute. Enzo stood at ease beside his wooden chair, not even a hint of distress in his slate gaze.


“You have coin?” Tobias said.


“Pah! Of course I have.” Enzo furrowed his brow, judgment written across his face. “I tell you, the sovereign’s soldiers, they take people’s coin. You pay, they leave. It is what soldiers do. Not in Kovahr, but in lands of tyrants.”


“What does this have to do with anything?” Raphael said.


Enzo flashed him a pointed look. “The soldiers take much coin, and I kill much soldiers.” He turned to Isa. “I give to you, and you stop with this noise, yes?”


Isa started. “Noise?”


“No talk.” Enzo shouldered past Tobias and Isa. “We go.”


Enzo marched from the room, leaving behind a befuddled Isa, their mouth agape. “Where the hell is he going?”


Tobias didn’t respond, clamoring into the hallway. Enzo was proudly clomping down the corridor, nodding at passing courtesans before rounding into a distant chamber. Tobias followed him inside. “Enzo, we’ve already given Isa a sizeable . . .”


Several naked men were clustered together, sucking and humping in a tangled mass of limbs. Raphael and Isa were quick to join Tobias, and upon the holder’s arrival, the men sprang upright and dispersed, their bare asses vanishing down the corridor. Enzo paid them no mind and tossed the newly free mattress to the floor, revealing a large wooden trunk beneath the bed frame.


Isa pushed Tobias aside. “If this is some clever diversion, trust that I’ve seen it all.”


Enzo unlatched and opened the trunk, revealing a giant pool of shimmering gold. For a fleeting moment the chamber went still, all eyes pointed at the bountiful treasure in reverence.


Tobias broke the silence, murmuring under his breath, “Fucking shit.”


Raphael spun toward Enzo. “You stole that?”


“I do not steal,” Enzo said. “Soldiers steal.”


“But you stole it from the soldiers.”


“No, no, you are confuse. Soldiers steal, I kill soldiers, then I give to this angry person.” Enzo elbowed Isa in the ribs. “It is good, yes?”


Isa was silent, dagger still clenched in their fist, though the fire in their gaze had died. They stared at the gold intently, pondering it. Hope flickered in Tobias’s chest. This was his opportunity.


“Combined with our previous payment, this is more gold than many see in their lifetime. A generous offer by anyone’s standards.” Tobias came in closer, choosing his words with care. “We both know your staff will be safe as soon as Leila and I have gone, which we plan to do at once. But the servants will stay, and you will be richer for it.”


Isa said nothing, so Tobias took a step closer, a prayer repeating in his mind. “So, it’s settled?”


A second or an hour passed before Isa tucked their dagger away and turned on their heel. “I want you and The Savior gone tomorrow.”


“And the servants?” Tobias prodded.


Isa flicked their wrist toward the trunk. “Have one of them bring this to my study.”


They disappeared from the chamber, not a second glance in Tobias’s direction. Raphael emptied his lungs and Tobias followed suit, releasing the oppressive tension in his chest. His victory was aptly timed, and he nearly smiled, relieved that something, for once, had gone his way.


“See?” Enzo donned his usual gap-toothed grin. “Already I help.”





The afternoon passed in a blur of hurried voices and nervous energy. Tobias’s mother and sister packed their necessities while Tobias, Delphi, and Raphael strategized negotiations. Leila met with Enzo in private, blessing him with the gift of shadow walking and teaching him how to wield Her light. Tobias checked on them a time or two, and between Enzo’s grunts and growls, it appeared he understood Leila’s instructions and embraced his new title as their guide. With each passing second, Tobias became lighter. At last, things were falling into place.


It wasn’t long before all seven of them had squeezed around Leila’s and Tobias’s table, cloaks clasped at their throats and satchels hanging over their shoulders. Enzo looked the most out of place layered in his three fur pelts, prepared for the blast of his homeland’s icy winds. How strange it was, having Tobias’s mother and sister sitting across from his newest comrades. They’d only just met Enzo and Delphi and had barely accepted Raphael. Nothing about the meeting felt natural—especially the fact that all eyes were pointed his way.


“So, are we ready?” Tobias said. “We go to Kovahr. Now.”


“We’re going to Kovahr now?” Naomi glanced between the group. “One blessing and that’s it? We’ve arrived?”


“We’ll have everything we need there, won’t we?” Yucana said. “Surely the palace⁠—”


“Citadel,” Enzo grunted.


Yucana scowled. “Surely the citadel has plenty of food and water, plus warm clothes and blankets.”


“It’s the solution we’ve waited for.” Delphi stroked Leila’s hand beneath the table, and Tobias was surprised when Leila didn’t pull away. Delphi nudged her sister’s shoulder. “The Kovahrian army is seconds away from becoming Your own.”


An ease floated through the space as if, one by one, each person’s greatest fears had been lifted. Leila sat tall, but Tobias couldn’t shake his memories. Not long ago She cried in his arms. How could She be so calm and assured? Was the life of The Savior one of perpetual stoicism?


Would his life as the sovereign be the same?


Unflinching, Leila turned to Enzo. “You can manage it?”


“Is easy peasy,” Enzo said.


Leila nodded, and all but Naomi stood as one, obeying Her command. Tobias took Delphi’s hand, who took Leila’s, until the entire group was united, ready to embrace the holy light. A sliver of sunshine bled through the chamber window, illuminating half of the palm print on Enzo’s chest—the blessing that would end their troubles.


“You remember our lesson,” Leila said. “Imagine the citadel. Any place within its grounds, even your chambers, whatever is clearest in your mind’s eye. See yourself there, and it will be so.”


A spark ignited in Tobias’s chest. They would finally be free.


Leila looked to Enzo. “Whenever you’re ready.”


With a grunt of compliance, Enzo lowered his head and closed his eyes. The quiet was stifling, but the energy in the chamber was palpable, bouncing from wall to wall with a flaring heat. Tobias’s heartbeat quickened. Salvation was a featherweight touch away.


Except the silence became long and stilted, and the group remained where they stood.


“Eh . . .” Wrinkling his nose, Enzo opened a single eye. “I feel nothing.”


“It can take time to adjust,” Leila said. “Shadow walking requires deep concentration. Focus your mind’s eye. See the citadel as clear as if it were right in front of you.”


Enzo closed his eyes, pointing his face toward the heavens. Resolve was alive in his fixed jaw. Minutes passed like hours as Enzo appeared to summon every speck of magic within him, but he remained rooted to the brothel floor along with the rest of them.


Naomi glanced among the others, then spoke in a near whisper. “Nothing’s happening.”


“He’s trying to concentrate,” Leila said.


“I am confuse.” Sighing, Enzo dropped his hands. “I do as You say.”


“It’s never taken this long before,” Raphael grumbled.


Leila shot Raphael a cross look before meeting Enzo’s gaze. “Just try again. One more time.”


Anxious gazes flitted across the chamber, and the familiar weight of Tobias’s dread settled onto his shoulders. No. This is going to work. Surely not everyone could adjust seamlessly to magic. A few fumbles were likely the norm. Enzo looked to Tobias, skepticism written across his face, and in turn Tobias stood straighter. Mumbling something Tobias couldn’t decipher, Enzo did the same, uniting their circle and closing his eyes once again.


Tobias kept his open. Everything within Enzo appeared strained—his teeth were gritted, and his neck and arms were ropey with bulging veins. The chamber grew hotter, pulsing with anticipation, longing, and no doubt Leila’s holy bidding. Within seconds, the silence would be broken by harsh winds, clanking armor, and thick Kovahrian drawls.


Instead, a long squealing fart ended the quiet, ripping straight from Enzo’s ass.


Raphael tossed his hands in the air. “Oh, for God’s sake.”


“What’s going on?” Tobias’s mother paled. “Why isn’t it working?”


“Maybe You didn’t bless him right,” Raphael said.


“There isn’t a wrong way to bless someone,” Leila hissed.


“Well surely something went amiss, otherwise we’d be in Kovahr right now.”


“Leila is very skilled with Her light.” Delphi turned to Raphael, crossing her arms matter-of-factly. “She knows exactly what She’s doing.”


“Does this mean we’re stuck here?” Naomi asked.


“Everyone, quiet,” Tobias spoke over the others. “Leila’s blessings have saved my life on multiple occasions. There’s a rational explanation for this.” As the others fell silent, Tobias looked to Leila. “Go on. Tell them.”


Leila’s face dropped, and Tobias’s stomach plummeted along with it.


“I . . .” Leila’s lips parted, and the queenly power in Her gaze faded away. “I don’t know.”


Tobias’s mother gasped, his sister’s eyes wide with disbelief. Panic spread through the room, and it most certainly wasn’t what they needed. Say something. Except he hadn’t a solution, an answer, or any help at all. Magic was still so new to him. This was supposed to be the end.


Raphael cleared his throat, the first to break the silence. “What do You mean?”


“I mean I don’t know,” Leila said.


“Well, according to the archives, all Saviors have a deep, profound knowledge of their magic.”


“That’s because all Saviors had their mothers there to teach them.” Leila’s face flushed red. “Except for one.”


Raphael went quiet for a long while before managing to mumble, “Oh.”


“Such an articulate fellow, isn’t he?” Naomi scoffed.


Delphi fought back a chuckle, nudging Tobias in the ribs. “I like her.”


“I studied My power, read every scroll from start to finish about My grandmothers and their grandmothers before them. I most certainly have a deep, profound understanding of My gift.” The strength in Leila’s voice died, and Her carriage wilted. “It’s just . . . some things elude Me.”


A strained silence filled the room, all eyes on Her. “It’s all right, Leila,” Tobias said. “You don’t have to explain Yourself.”


The others read the warning in his tone, though their bleak expressions spoke the words they didn’t dare say. Could nothing go right? It seemed with every rise in their dance, there had to be a heart-stopping fall.


“I blessed Enzo as I have countless others before him,” Leila continued, though Her voice became unsteady. “I don’t know why it isn’t working. I don’t know why he can’t shadow walk.”


“Has anyone else traveled to Kovahr before?” Delphi asked.


Naomi’s eyes lit up. “Maybe someone in the brothel has.”


“I’m not sure we can take the risk,” Tobias said. “Coverts were in town just yesterday. Outside of our circle, no one can be trusted.”


Naomi’s face fell, and Raphael quickly cut in. “Even so, Kovahr has the most unforgiving terrain of all the ally kingdoms, plus few exports. People don’t often make it a point to visit its borders.” He forced an unconvincing smile. “It’s a fair suggestion nonetheless.”


Murmurings crept through the space, turning into bickering, then shouting, until the chamber erupted into chaos. Nearly everyone had dissolved into the worst versions of themselves, and a part of Tobias longed to follow suit. This was supposed to be their deliverance, and yet again their God above, if it truly existed, had shown them contempt. The noise around him crawled beneath his skin, pulling him back to the fortress and setting him on the arena sands.


Harsh sun, roaring spectators, and the promise of death.


He wasn’t sure how long he’d stayed in the arena before he returned to the brothel chamber and to Leila. She stood rigid and armored, but Her eyes were far away as if She was lost in Her own turmoil. The shouting grew louder and heated, and Tobias dug his fingers into his palms.


“We travel to Kovahr the old-fashioned way,” he barked over the noise. “On horseback.”


His mother furrowed her brow, then looked to Raphael. “He just said the terrain is unforgiving.”


“We’ve survived plenty of battles throughout this journey. What’s one more?”


The next stretch of quiet was unbearable, and Tobias was glad when Enzo coughed and hacked, disrupting the tension. Tobias tried not to pay attention to the surrounding stares, as he knew it wouldn’t do him any good. They all deserved answers, but he hadn’t any to give.


“Best we start preparing for our travels, yes?” he said.


Raphael glanced at Naomi, who glanced at her mother. The overwhelm was clear on their faces, a sentiment Tobias would’ve shared if he could afford it. With a soft murmur, Raphael pushed Naomi’s cart from the room with her mother lingering close behind. Delphi whispered a parting to Leila before taking Enzo’s hand, guiding him out the door while the Kovahrian gazed back at them, still perplexed by what had happened.


When the door closed, Tobias exhaled. He pressed a hand to Leila’s back. “We’re going to be fine.”


She stood eerily still, Her eyes cast down to the floor. “What good am I to you? I’m a Savior who cannot control Her magic.”


“You are worthy for so many reasons beyond Your magic.”


“I don’t know why it didn’t work. I haven’t a clue.” Sighing, She looked Tobias in the eyes. “I should know, Tobias. It’s My light.”


“It is Your light—passed down from a mother You’ve never met. You said it Yourself—how can You understand its intricacies if no one was there to teach You?”


She gnawed at Her bottom lip. “The Culmination . . . all those blessings across your chest . . . it was an accident. I hadn’t intended to bless you. I don’t even know how it happened.”


“I am forever grateful for that accident. I don’t think I would’ve survived the Culmination without Your light.”


Leila grabbed the back of a chair, Her shoulders rising and falling with a deep breath. Would he ever get used to seeing Her so lost and defeated?


“Blessings be damned,” he said. “We will go to Kovahr, and we will secure an army. You have my word.”


“How can you say that when everything’s going so wrong?”


“Not everything’s wrong.”


She glanced at him, then Her promise, and Her frame loosened. Sighing, She slid Her hands up his arms and around his back, relaxing Her head in the junction between his neck and shoulder. Every impulse within him ached to stay there in that moment, soaking in the warmth of Her embrace, but he couldn’t.


“Now that we have a plan, I have quite a busy day ahead.” He tiptoed over his next words. “I’ll be making a quick trip to the capital, so if You wouldn’t mind lending some light⁠—”


Leila yanked away. “Tobias!”


“I’ll be brief,” he said. “I’ll simply gather supplies and hear the herald. Besides, the capital is miles away. I imagine there won’t be a single covert in sight.”


“Is that right?”


Leila raised an incredulous eyebrow, and Tobias fought to stifle a smirk. “I won’t kill anyone this time. I promise.”


“You’re not funny.”


“Lies. I’m hilarious.”


“I forbid you from partaking in this asinine endeavor⁠—”


“We’ve exhausted most of our resources,” he said. “And the journey ahead of us will likely be far more grueling than what we’ve already endured. We need to be prepared. Our lives are at stake.”


Her petulant glower deepened, but Tobias could tell by Her silence that Her edges were slowly cracking. He took a gentle step closer. “Give me the gift?”


Leila hoisted up his shirt and planted Her searing palm to his chest. “If I can.”


“Stop that.”


“Go on.” She dropped Her hand, the fire of Her touch still pulsing through his flesh. “Try to escape with My pitiful light.”


It was Tobias’s turn to shoot Her a scowl. “Watch me.”


The room burst into light before Leila could respond. Tobias summoned Her blessing without effort, and though a part of him was surprised it had worked, he released himself to Her power. Maybe Enzo was somehow immune to holy light. There wasn’t much time to stew on the matter, as weathered plaster broke through his vision, and his feet touched down in a familiar watering hole alleyway. A strange surge of emotion stirred in his belly. As dim and putrid as the place was, he was closer to home than he’d been in so long.


With his cowl secure, Tobias crept from the alley and wound through the bustling crowd. This time, he wouldn’t be distracted—not by older women in need and certainly not by his own racing nerves. He darted from vendor to vendor, securing salted meats, dried fruit, and lentils. Next, he gathered linen rags for monthly bleedings and iron and flint for their future campfires. He scanned the expanse ahead, but not a single person looked his way. A quick journey is what he’d promised, and he was eager to deliver.


Tobias hoisted the supplies over his shoulder, careful to reposition his cowl before it slipped from the bridge of his nose. The heavy load on his back was certainly enough to sustain them. All that was left was to hear the herald.


As if summoned by his thoughts, metal clanked in the distance, and the hair on the back of Tobias’s neck stood straight. A horde collected around the dais, but he didn’t bother to look its way. He’d been here before, could still hear the soldier announcing his new, heinous title. Fugitive. Traitor. Tobias thought to summon Leila’s blessing and shadow walk away, but he resisted.


Braced and readied, Tobias wove through the crowd, hiding amid the masses. The soldiers were taking formation around the dais, forming two long rows with their spears crossed like X’s. There wasn’t a single herald in sight. Tobias had expected as much, but that didn’t stop him from gripping the hilt of his sword and hovering his free hand over the sheath on his thigh. A single soldier stepped onto the dais, his helmet covering most of his face, and spoke over the murmuring spectators.


“Citizens of Thessen, we bear news from the south. Our quest for The Savior has not been fruitless.” The soldier raised his chin. “She has been seen.”


Gasps sounded through the capital, and Tobias tensed. The south. Leila was there in that very moment, along with his mother and sister.


“Our source has convened with our righteous sovereign and, in doing so, has earned his respect.” The crowd’s chatter climbed higher, and the soldier raised his voice. “This man speaks no falsehoods. The palace trusts his claims implicitly, and the people of Thessen must do the same.”


Go back to Leila. Warn Her. But he couldn’t remove his eyes from the dais, nor could he blink as the soldiers behind their speaker parted, carving a narrow pathway.


The speaker removed his helmet and bowed. “Today I bring to you Flynn Joseon, the Prince of the Sovereign’s Tournament, Giver of Gifts, Friend to the Artist, the Savior’s Champion, and your future sovereign.”


Applause surrounded Tobias, or perhaps it was simply the thundering of his heartbeat. What he knew for certain was that Flynn was marching among the soldiers, guarded by their numbers. The thirst for violence bubbled within Tobias, strong enough to coax one of his blades free from its sheath.


Flynn stood on the dais, his carriage proud, skin glistening with oils, and reddish-brown drape shining with golden thread. Scabs and scars marked his lip and brow, but the greatest reminder of Tobias’s fists was the black bandage covering his eye and wrapping his skull. Something akin to pride burned in Tobias, but the feeling was snuffed as soon as Flynn spoke.


“It’s true. I’ve seen Her Holiness.” Flynn’s voice carried through the capital. “She is alive, but I regret to inform you, She is unwell.”


The people around Tobias whispered, though it was lost on him. His eyes bore through Flynn—and the blackness surrounding them, brick upon brick, sealing them in.


“She is indeed being held captive by the Artist,” Flynn said. “The very man who left me marred.”


The surrounding people stood unblinking while Tobias’s logical mind grappled with his flaming impulses. How easy it would be to launch his dagger straight through Flynn’s throat.


“Like our valiant soldiers, I searched far and wide for my bride. I fought to free Her from bondage, and I succeeded in my task to find Her. She was gracious for my intervention, fell weak and willingly into my arms.” Flynn shook his head. “I’d never seen Her in such a state. Good people of this realm, I must speak candidly—She is terrified of that savage creature.”


Tobias tightened his grip on the hilt, his nails digging into his palms. He’d told Leila he wouldn’t kill anyone, but perhaps one broken promise wasn’t so bad. He cursed under his breath. The guards would seize him in seconds, with or without Leila’s light.


“Unfortunately, I failed you all, just as I failed Her,” Flynn said. “I battled mightily against the Artist, but his strength wasn’t his own. It was coupled with dark magic, a curse from the Outlands. After hours of bloodshed, he overpowered me and left me with this reminder of our encounter.”


He pointed to his bandaged eye, eliciting more whispers from the crowd. Certainly the people saw Flynn as a victim—no, a hero. A scathing heat burned through Tobias’s veins. If Flynn was a hero, surely Tobias was darkness itself.


“That traitor may have bested me once, but know this—I will be silent no more.” Flynn unsheathed the sword at his hip and raised it high. “I vow to stand beside the sovereign in his pursuit to save our queen. I will fight and bleed until my bride is returned safely to my side. And I denounce my laurelite as Friend to the Artist and promise to earn one anew—the Artist’s Executioner.”


The slight patter of clapping hands rang forth from the otherwise still horde. Tobias was cold and stagnant, his mind flitting between calm and chaos. Flynn stood recognized by the palace and dignified with an audience, while Tobias hid amid the masses, a fugitive fleeing for his life. It was all so familiar in a twisted way, and his thoughts screamed as Flynn spoke his final words.


“Please join me in my crusade to bring the Artist to justice.”



OceanofPDF.com

c3BK
    
  


  


Chapter 18

Leila


The sun hadn’t yet risen, but Leila stood in front of Her wardrobe mirror, too troubled to sleep. Her late mothers waited in the mirror’s reflection. It must have been ages since the last time She’d seen them, and their presence was both a comfort and an aching pain. Their gazes were consumed with sorrow and pity, and it shamed Her. She pressed a hand to the reflective surface.


“My light betrays Me,” She whispered. “Why won’t it do as I command?”


Silence filled the chamber. Her mothers never spoke, but the question pestered Her nevertheless. She dropped Her hand and sighed.


“I wish you were here.”


The sadness in their eyes became too much to bear, and She closed the wardrobe door, freeing Herself from their visages. She’d tried three more times to bless Enzo, but for some reason Her magic refused to take—another mystery that left Her further removed from the very power She wielded.


A faint snore sounded off behind Her. Tobias was still asleep, his nakedness wrapped around the empty spot Leila used to occupy. She’d let him sleep a while longer. He needed the peace, certainly after his discovery the day prior. The news of Flynn was a blow to Her gut, but for Tobias, it was a slow poison ravaging his insides. He’d arrived from the capital in a reddish cloud of his own hatred, and Leila had known instantly that their circumstances had worsened.


How much more of this could he take? Could She take?


A knock sounded at the door, and Leila cracked it open. Delphi was waiting on the other side, her arms crossed. “Are You still angry with me?”


Leila frowned. “A little.” She glanced over Her shoulder at Tobias and stepped out into the corridor, closing the door behind Her.


“Pippa is safe.” Delphi came in close, her tone pleading. “I’ve told You this a thousand times.”


She had indeed repeated herself ad nauseam, though it had done little to assuage Leila’s dread. She picked at the folds of Her dress. “Safe can mean many things.”


“Talos adores You. Loves You as if You were his own. He’d never allow harm to Pippa.”


“He stabbed Tobias in the leg.”


Delphi waved Her away. “That was ages ago.”


“You’re sure I can’t speak to him?” Leila said. “To her?”


“They’re not in the palace. I checked a thousand times.” Delphi’s eyes became large and sad. “They’re someplace else. Someplace far away.”


“But Brontes is at the palace.”


“Exactly.” Delphi’s face lit up. “You see? She’s fine. She’s nowhere near him.”


Leila cast her a glare, resuming Her anxious picking. “This place . . . you don’t know anything?”


“It’s Brontes’s little land of secrets. That’s what the servants call it. One by one, all his indiscretions disappeared to somewhere unnamed.”


“Somewhere in the north?” Leila said. “That’s where his sellswords are stationed.”


Delphi opened her mouth to speak but stopped short, frozen. “Nine days.” She began pacing the corridor, her mind turning behind her eyes. “It took nine days for Brontes to reach his sellswords and return to the palace.”


“I don’t follow.”


“When Brontes took Pippa away, he returned in nine days.” She stopped short. “He left them in his little land of secrets. Do you see? It’s the same place. It has to be.”


Fire filled Leila, a sweltering sense of victory and rage. Her father’s face permeated the corners of Her mind, but for once it wasn’t accompanied by fear.


She would burn Brontes to the ground.


“Once we have an army, we’ll go there first.” She curled Her hands into fists, eager for the day when they would be covered in Brontes’s blood. “We’ll free Pippa and slaughter the sellswords.”


Delphi’s demeanor softened. “Cosima’s there too.”


“Good.” Leila bit back a growl. “Three birds with one stone.”


Footsteps echoed down the corridor, and Raphael appeared, visibly tense. He offered Delphi a cordial nod before looking to Leila. “We’re ready.”


Leila flared Her nostrils. She knew exactly what was coming, had been prepared for it since the night before, but that didn’t lessen Her dread.


“For what?” Delphi said. “Are we leaving now?”


Leila’s and Raphael’s eyes locked, and a knot wound in Her stomach. Bracing Herself, She took Her sister’s hand. “We’ll explain everything.”


She wasted no time waking Tobias, who made himself presentable before they set off to Raphael’s chamber. Perhaps the walk there would last for miles, delaying their misery, but they arrived within seconds much to Her dismay. Yucana and Naomi were already seated at the table, waiting impatiently with fidgeting hands. Leila flashed them a meager smile that only Naomi returned, and Her gut wound tighter.


Reluctantly, Leila took Her seat. Delphi sat across from Her, her face awash with confusion, and the look of it was nearly enough to make Leila ill.


Raphael clasped his hands on the table, daring to end the silence. “Now seems like an appropriate time to address our plans moving forward.”


“Our plans?” Delphi let out an incredulous laugh. “When did we make plans?”


A strained quiet hung in the air. Leila, Tobias, and Raphael had met with Enzo the night prior, discussing the journey ahead by candlelight. The meeting was civil, the decision unanimous, and all that was left was the grueling task of informing the others. Enzo was conspicuously missing from the table, which was for the best. His presence would’ve no doubt stoked the flames.


“Our things are packed,” Tobias said. “We leave tonight.” He looked into Leila’s eyes, and something about his gaze was a comfort, like a warm embrace even though he was out of reach. “Leila, Raphael, and I will travel to Kovahr with Enzo as our guide.”


“And what of the rest of us?” Yucana said.


Tobias’s throat flexed. “The rest of you will stay behind.”


Naomi gasped, while Yucana’s eyes widened, then narrowed into a glare. Leila sucked in a breath.


Here we go.


“You’re leaving us?” Naomi said.


Scoffing, Delphi crossed her arms. “Like hell.”


“It’s safer for you here, blending in with the workers and courtesans.” Raphael spoke with a delicacy that was unusual for him. “We don’t want you getting hurt.”


“When have you ever cared about our wellbeing?” Naomi snapped.


Raphael flinched as if Naomi’s words were a slap to the cheek. “I care a great deal.”


“We’ve discussed this at length,” Tobias said.


“Not with any of us.” Yucana spun toward Leila. “Is that how You intend to rule, Your Holiness? Dictating the lives of others without their consent?”


“This decision wasn’t made lightly,” Tobias cut in. “A large traveling party would be extremely dangerous—for all of us.”


Yucana scowled. “So, we’re a nuisance.”


“I never said that.”


“You can’t leave us here.” Tears welled in Naomi’s eyes. “You can’t just abandon us again.”


“Have you no understanding of the pain you caused us?” Yucana spat.


“My sister has been kidnapped,” Leila finally spoke, Her voice the tip of a blade. “She’s imprisoned somewhere, and we have no means of freeing her.” Her words caught in Her throat, but She took in a calming breath. “I don’t know if she’ll survive this war. I very well might lose yet another member of My family. And I can’t bear the thought of the same fate befalling any of you.”


The chamber fell quiet, and for a moment Leila could’ve sworn Her crown had returned to its rightful place atop Her head. Tobias offered the slightest nod, a silent thank you that made Her sit tall.


“The quickest route to Kovahr is cutting through Trogolia,” She continued. “Enzo will show us the way. We can reach the border in a day’s time if we leave at nightfall. From that point forward, our travels will be precarious—more so than they’ve been thus far.” She scanned the others, no longer diminished by their stares. “I cannot guarantee anyone’s safety, let alone My own. And while this is a risk I must take, I am begging you to accept the refuge you’ve been given, for your own sakes.”


“Horse shit. I’m going.” Delphi pointed a slender finger at Leila. “I’ve been Your advisor my entire life. You need me.”


“And how will you advise Me on this journey? You haven’t traveled through Trogolia, or Kovahr, or anywhere else. This is your first time leaving the palace since you were a child.”


Delphi’s eyes shrank into slits. “You’re punishing me because of Pippa.”


“I’m protecting you because I love you,” Leila said. “Be honest with yourself. We’re not battling senators any longer. These are dangers we’ve never known.” Her gaze became pleading. “I can’t lose another sister. Please. I can’t.”


Delphi’s glare remained, but she said nothing, thwarted and too stubborn to admit it.


Naomi wiped her eyes and shifted in her seat. “It’s just, my back . . .”


“Don’t think for a second that I’ve forgotten.” Leila took Naomi’s hand and gave it a squeeze. “Once we’re reunited, relieving your pain will be My utmost priority.”


Naomi gazed down at her lap, but she nodded, and for that Leila was grateful.


“And you?” Tobias said.


All eyes fell on Yucana, who sat eerily still, fury alive in her eyes. The scent of burnt embers stung Leila’s nostrils. Even if she hadn’t worn it so plainly, Yucana’s anger was potent, rising in red wisps from her shoulders. She turned to her son. “I will see you to the border.”


Tobias sighed. “Mother⁠—”


“When you left for the tournament, you didn’t allow me a proper goodbye, and I had no idea if I’d ever see you again.” The slight quiver of her lip revealed her fear. “You will not deny me this basic dignity a second time.”


Leila wilted. Tobias’s life was in grave danger, and once again, it was She who had put him in harm’s way.


“You’ll see us to the border, then you’ll return here to the brothel. The rest of us will continue to Kovahr.” Tobias offered his mother a sad smile. “That means you should probably start packing.”


Raphael shot up from his seat. “I can assist.”


Naomi rolled her eyes. “I wouldn’t be so sure.”


Groaning, Raphael threw his hands overhead. “For God’s sake, I have been working so hard to be considerate with you, and still you mock me. Tell me, why is it that everyone has forgiven me except for you?”


Naomi gazed back at him, her lips parted. “I’m . . . I didn’t mean . . .”


Her voice trailed off, and Tobias cleared his throat. “We really do need to get going,” he said.


Grunting a brief parting, Raphael stormed off, and Yucana pushed Naomi’s cart from the room, not giving a second glance to her son. Delphi was the next to take leave, stopping at the doorway before casting one last glare Leila’s way. “You’re a bitch.”


“You’ll be so much happier here,” Leila said.


“Distracting me with courtesans is foul and duplicitous.”


She left the chamber in a huff, and Tobias immediately went limp in his seat, letting out a long, relieved exhale. Before Leila could mirror the sentiment, a soft rapping sounded off the doorframe, and Hylas poked his head inside.


“Pardon me.” He crept into the chamber, bowing once to Leila, then a second time to Tobias. “I couldn’t help but overhear . . .”


Leila raised an eyebrow. “Eavesdropping, were we?”


“Apologies.” His shoulders curled, but he stopped short and straightened. “Actually, I believe You’ll find my interest in Your favor.”


Leila couldn’t help but crack a smile. “Go on, then.”


The former senator stood tall, his chin high and chest out. “I have committed my life to serving The One True Savior, and my commitment grew all the more steadfast the night You saved my life. I have spied for You, heavily abetted the liberation of Your staff, and withstood great bodily harm, all in aid to Your Holiness. I believe I can be a great asset to Your journey to Kovahr, and I would like to accompany You.”


Leila’s heart lurched. She stood from Her seat, taking his hands. “Hylas, no.”


“I am a man of mixed heritage with great knowledge of several cultures,” he added. “My father was a seasoned sailor and taught me of customs beyond our own. I speak several languages. Not Kovahrian I’m afraid, but I am a quick study and eager to learn.”


“I speak Kovahrian,” Leila said, “and I, too, am well-learned.”


“Then consider my close proximity to the sovereign during Your time away. All the meetings I attended, the strategies I overheard and absorbed.” His brown eyes grew larger, his tone uncharacteristically level and sure. “The information You retrieved during Your late nights at the watchtower? It came from me. I am Your closest link to the sovereign’s agenda.” He set his jaw. “And I am willing to kill if necessary.”


“He has a point,” Tobias said.


Leila bit back a growl. The bruise of Hylas’s eye had yellowed, and the sight of it stung. God, what he’d already endured for Her sake, and he was willing to bear far worse. Her mind grappled with Her heart, pulling Her in opposite directions.


The door flew open, and the three of them jumped. Ladon stood before them, eyes wide and aghast. “They’re here.”


“Who’s here?” Leila asked.


“Soldiers.”


Leila’s throat sealed shut, and Tobias cursed at Her side. They’d waited too long.


“H-how many?” Hylas barely croaked out.


“A squad, no more than ten,” Ladon said. “They’re performing a random inspection, said it’s mandated by law. We can’t refuse them.”


Leila’s stomach roiled, Her mind flashing with images of Her sister slaughtered, Tobias’s family in chains. “Tell the others,” She said. “Delphi, Naomi, Yucana, and Raphael.” She turned to Hylas. “Get Enzo.”


Both the courtesan and senator dashed from the room, and Leila rushed to close and lock the door behind them. She spun toward Tobias, who was straightening the sheets, then stuffing Raphael’s belongings into the wardrobe.


“What are you doing?”


“Giving the appearance of an unoccupied room.” He held the wardrobe door open, then beckoned Her forward. “Come.”


She followed, climbing up the bottom drawers and nestling within the wardrobe. Tobias took root at Her side, closing the doors and encasing them in darkness, save for the faint sliver of light between the two wooden slats.


“We’ll wait here,” Tobias whispered, his body pressed to Hers. “If they find us⁠—”


“They will find us.”


“We’ll shadow walk away. Into the woods, behind the brothel. We’ll wait them out⁠—”


“And leave your mother and sister behind?” Leila hissed. “Delphi? The others?”


“We should’ve left yesterday⁠—”


Footsteps pattered outside the chamber, sending them both to silence. This wasn’t the time for bickering. Tobias swept his arm around Her waist, pulling Her against his chest. She wasn’t sure how long they stood in that exact position, wincing at the slight creaking of wooden panels beneath their feet, listening for the clank of armor or hum of voices. The heat between them became suffocating, their eyes trained on the single slit of light.


Nothing. No soldiers, no voices. Maybe they were gone.


Jangling sounded, and both Tobias and Leila flinched. Someone was wrestling with the doorknob. Leila held Her breath until the noise gave way to silence, and She loosened the slightest bit in Tobias’s arms. The quiet was a promise soon broken. Someone pounded at the door, and Leila jumped, clasping Her hands over Her mouth while Tobias reached for the blade on his thigh. A muffled voice barked orders from the corridor, followed by a foot kicking at the door. Each strike barreled into Leila’s chest, harder, louder, until the door burst open, cracking against the opposite wall.


Footsteps filtered through the space, and Leila peered through the sliver of light. Nothing—and then the soldier appeared, a spear in hand, eyes tracing the space. Leila’s breath caught. The soldier studied the bed, running a hand over its sheets, then hunched low, inspecting its underside. Tobias’s hand slinked into Leila’s, holding tight. The soldier eyed the window, then glanced toward the door. He was leaving. Leila was sure of it.


Then the soldier turned, looking straight at the wardrobe.


A scream built in Leila’s throat. The soldier took a step closer, then readied his spear, holding it at his side. Another step, and She could make out the hair along his arms and his narrowed eyes. Tobias was right. Shadow walking was their only option. She pressed Her palm into his, channeling Her power. He must’ve felt the blaze of Her light because his fingers tightened around Hers, soaking up every last drop of magic. The soldier came in closer, and She clenched Her jaw, imagining the nearby woods in Her mind’s eye.


The soldier’s head slammed against the wardrobe, his helmet cracking through one of the wooden doors. Leila couldn’t help the screech that left Her lips, but it didn’t matter; the soldier was out of sight, reappearing in mere flashes of gleaming silver and flailing limbs. Tobias shoved the doors open, and they both stumbled into the chamber, slack-jawed at the chaos before them.


Hylas stood in the doorway, and Enzo straddled the soldier, slamming the spear into the pit of his gut.


“Enzo!” Tobias barked. “What the hell are you doing?”


“He came to kill you.” Enzo angled the spear in the soldier’s belly, then shoved it upward, ending the man’s misery. A proud smirk swept his lips. “I kill him first.”


“We were going to shadow walk away,” Tobias said. “We wanted them to think we’re not here.”


“They cannot think if they are dead.”


“Quiet, both of you.” Leila massaged Her temples, fighting to still Her racing thoughts. “A soldier’s dead. The others will look for him.”


“Maybe they’ll assume he was distracted,” Hylas added, shifting from foot to foot beside the door. “That he found himself compelled to pursue . . . other activities.”


“Yes, yes.” Enzo hopped to his feet. “The fucking.”


“They won’t think he’s fucking if they find him in a pool of his blood,” Leila bit out through gritted teeth. “Which means⁠—”


“We hide the body.” Tobias crouched low, hooking his arms beneath the soldier’s. “Help me lift him.”


With a grunt, Tobias hoisted the limp torso from the floor while Enzo took the legs, lifting them high with little effort. Blood seeped from the corpse into a growing puddle on the floor, and when the soldier’s head lolled to the side, crimson poured from his lips.


“Shit,” Tobias growled. “This is a fucking mess.”


“Hold on.” Leila rushed to the bed, stripping it of its sheets. She laid out one of the maroon throws, the fabric quickly saturating with blood. “Set him here.”


Tobias gently lowered the soldier while Enzo dropped his legs with a graceless thud. Together, all four of them rolled the body, wrapping it like seasoned meats in flatbread. Red streaked the floor, and Hylas went to work sopping up the stains with a spare sheet.


“Worry about that later,” Tobias said.


“Are you mad?” Leila spat. “We’re leaving a trail.”


“We shadow walk the soldier to the woods, then we clean.”


Enzo grabbed the body by the ankles, lurching it upright and sending blood spilling across the smeared floor. “I go.”


“You can’t go,” Tobias said. “You can’t shadow walk.”


“Don’t hold him upside down, you’re making it worse!” Leila hissed.


“I think perhaps we should take a moment to contain ourselves.” Hylas’s voice came out meek, his skin greying with sickness. “Things haven’t unfolded exactly to plan, and more soldiers⁠—”


His voice died when the door flew open. Three soldiers stood before them, their eyes panning between Leila, Tobias, and the bloody body in Enzo’s arms.


“Shit,” Leila said.


She didn’t wait for them to ready their spears. Light pulsed through Her veins, and She summoned all of it, clasping the blade on Her thigh. Blood had already been spilled, and their path forward was clear. There was nothing to do but end them all.


Behind them.


Her body flared with heat, and a half-second later, She stood behind the pivoting soldiers. Leaping atop the closest soldier’s back, She skewered Her blade through the nape of his neck.


The man dropped beneath Her weight, and She rolled free of him. Something in the air had shifted with that kill; mayhem erupted, a mess of frenzied running and shouting. One of the soldiers was barreling toward Tobias while the second gathered himself, stunned by Leila’s magic. His hesitation was a gift, and Leila slid beneath the soldier, jamming Her blade into his groin. With an agonized howl, he dropped to his knees, clutching the open wound. He’d die from the blood loss soon enough, and Tobias was already making a quick end of the third soldier, who fell limp at his feet. They glanced at one another, then to Enzo and Hylas, an unspoken command in their gazes.


“Spread out,” Leila said. “Kill the rest.”


“Hapa!” Enzo grinned, pounding his chest.


They poured from the chamber, scanning the space around them. The soldiers could be anywhere. Leila peered over the railing, spying the bustling brothel beneath Her. The atrium view was a blessing, as She could see the winding hallways above and below, could surely spot polished armor amid the debauchery. There—just one floor below was the unmistakable red flourish of a helmet. Enzo had already woven past Her, but Leila didn’t move. Tobias stood across the way, a conflict She knew well ripe in his gaze. A hook lodged in Her rib cage, pulling Her in his direction, but She turned away regardless, charging ahead while he bounded in the opposite direction.


Enzo was already trekking down the staircase, and Leila quickly followed, heading to the next floor. Before She reached the final step, a thud shook the walls. Enzo had wrestled a soldier to the floor, and based on the strength of his bearish hands around the soldier’s neck, he didn’t need Leila’s assistance. The soldier’s face turned red within seconds, and when his end didn’t come soon enough, Enzo slammed his head against the floor, the repeated crack of his skull enough to make Leila flinch.


Shouting rang out in the distance. Another soldier had Ladon pressed against a wall, a spear pointed at his throat. Courtesans cowered at Ladon’s side, and their pleading set Leila’s insides aflame.


Closer.


She shadow walked past Enzo and broke into a sprint, emboldened by Her holy power. When the soldier finally looked Her way, She tackled him to the floor.


Shrieks sounded around Leila, but She was set on Her fallen foe. She’d knocked the helmet clear off his head, and She punched his nose, embracing the sharp pain cutting through Her knuckles. Snorting up blood, the soldier grabbed Leila’s throat, and She responded by wrapping Her legs around his waist and rolling him on top of Her. Gazing up at his pulverized nose, She plunged Her blade into his exposed throat, and his eyes bulged before fading lifelessly.


She shoved the soldier aside and staggered to Her feet. The courtesans were huddled and shaking, and Leila took Ladon’s hand.


“It’s all right,” She said. “You’re safe.”


Ladon’s expression was warped with disgust, and he pointed a trembling finger forward. “It’s in Your hair.”


Blood-soaked locks hung in Leila’s peripheral vision, an afterthought. Leila searched the madness for silver spears and red flourishes, then stopped when Tobias came into view. He was a floor lower, blocking a soldier’s blow, then plunging his sword into the man’s lower belly. Enzo was immersed in his own battle, pummeling a soldier to the floor with almost effortless power. Was that the seventh kill or the eighth?


Courtesans shouldered past Her as they dashed down the hallway, their cries bouncing from wall to wall. The chaos of the brothel became starkly clear, and Leila backed away from the railing, praying the patrons below hadn’t caught sight of Her. Was Her sister safe? What about Tobias’s family, their allies?


Armor glinted ahead. A soldier sprinted in Her direction, and She cursed Her brief reprieve. She readied Her blade, but the soldier knocked it from Her hand, digging his forearm into Her throat as he slammed Her against the wall.


“By the order of Flynn Joseon, I will return You to Your betrothed,” he said.


She pounded Her heel into the soldier’s foot, and though he only flinched, She used his fleeting vulnerability to shove him away. He stumbled against the railing, righting himself as his gaze darkened.


“Long live the king,” he said.


A lump lodged in Leila’s throat. King. The title shook Her more than it should’ve, and once She’d steadied Herself, the soldier had shackles in one hand and his weapon in the other.


A flash of dark curls plowed into the soldier. Hylas had launched himself at the man, knocking the assailant off center and thrusting him over the railing. A piercing scream ripped through the brothel followed by a climactic crash. Leila risked a glance over the edge, where stories below, the soldier lay in a mangled pile of broken limbs and blood.


“See?” Hylas stopped at Her side, speaking between shallow breaths. “I told You I’m willing to kill.”


The words had barely left his lips before he was hunched over the railing, spewing the contents of his stomach. Leila didn’t have time to react; Tobias ran toward Her and scooped Her into his arms, and Enzo followed soon after, wearing a triumphant smile.


“They’re all dead,” Tobias said, resting his head against Her bloodied hair. “They’re gone.”


“And the patrons?”


“Many left as soon as the soldiers arrived.” Hylas wiped his lips, chagrin flushing his cheeks. “People aren’t particularly fond of the military these days.”


“Leila!” Delphi was dashing toward them, and Leila threw Her arms around Her sister. The embrace didn’t last long, as Delphi pulled away, tossing a black cloak over Leila’s shoulders. “You have to go.”


“But what about⁠—?”


“Yucana and Raphael are waiting in the woods. They have Your things.”


Tobias’s eyes widened. “Naomi.”


“We’re sharing a chamber. She’s fine.” Delphi glanced between them all. “You need to leave now.”


Leila’s thoughts became frantic, rifling through too many worries. “The bodies⁠—”


“I’ll take care of them.”


“Delphi, you can’t⁠—”


“Do You think I’ve learned nothing from You?”


“It isn’t⁠—”


“Just leave.”


Leila nearly winced, wounded in a way She couldn’t articulate. How many times would they have to part? Why did it always feel like the end?


Delphi offered a sad smile. “I know. I love You too.”


A lump lodged in Leila’s throat, but She squared Her shoulders, willing what was left of Her strength to steel Her. She turned to Enzo. “Meet us in the woods?” He grunted in the affirmative, charging down the corridor. She took Tobias’s hand, wavered, then looked to Hylas. “Are you ready?”


She slipped Her free hand into his, and Hylas’s eyes went wide with realization. "Y-yes, absolutely.”


“You!” Isa stormed down the hallway, pointing at Leila as they stepped over a dead soldier. “You are⁠—”


“Leaving. Yes, we know.” A spark ignited in Leila’s belly, filling Her up and pouring from Her fingertips. Isa’s ire grew distant as light engulfed Her and the men at Her side, a pain She longed for. Holding Tobias and Hylas tight, She disappeared amid Her power.


To the woods.



OceanofPDF.com

c3HR
    
  


  


Chapter 19

Tobias


The song of chirping crickets followed Tobias through the expansive woods. He trekked in the center of the group, keen to stretch his legs after far too long on horseback, swerving around fallen logs and cracking twigs beneath his sandals. They’d traveled for hours already, and the sun was quickly setting, darkening the surrounding carob trees and painting their skin in shadows. Raphael and Hylas strode on foot a short distance behind him while Enzo led the way, his palomino draft horse’s wide ass swaying as it guided them to salvation—Trogolia, of all places.


Naomi hovered in Tobias’s thoughts, and a twinge pulled in his chest. He hadn’t had the chance to say goodbye to her, nor to assess her condition. Who will manage her tonics? Who will tend to her pain? His worries piled on top of one another, a myriad of nagging questions. Soon the sheer thought of his sister was nearly too much to bear, and he turned to Leila, eager for a welcome ear.


Leila rode their black stallion at his side, unblinking eyes pointed straight ahead. Everything about Her was vacant, Her mind left behind at the brothel. Tobias’s shoulders sagged. The past few days had weighed on Her, and leaving Her sister with such short notice—again—no doubt left a stain on Her heart. No, it wasn’t the time to unload his fears.


“Do You think it’s dangerous?” he said. “Delphi sharing a chamber with Naomi.”


He cast a sideways glance at Leila, who met his gaze, a single eyebrow arched. “Are you under the impression Delphi’s some sort of murderer?”


“No, I mean”—Tobias shrugged one shoulder—“Your sister is quite the scoundrel.”


“What does it matter? If Naomi prefers men, there shouldn’t be an issue.”


“And if she has a varied palate?”


Leila stopped short, puzzled. Then Her eyes shot wide, and She let out a hearty laugh.


“It’s not funny.” Tobias feigned a scowl that quickly betrayed him. “She’s been burned many times before.”


“Tobias, nothing’s happened,” She said.


“But wouldn’t it be a mess? We’re to wed. They’ll be family.”


“It’s sweet of you,” She cooed. “Worrying for your sister’s heart.”


“You’re not making me feel the slightest bit better.”


His grin revealed his lie. Leila waved a dismissive hand at him, and Her horse mirrored the sentiment with the flick of its tail. Instantly, She was lighter, and Tobias was proud he could be the one to alleviate Her fears, even if his still lingered. Leila trotted to Enzo’s side, and Tobias couldn’t help but admire the long braid hanging down Her back, the length of Her slender neck and subtle curve of Her waist. Hylas hurried past Tobias to Leila and Enzo, looking up at the two as he gleaned their conversation—whatever it was, Tobias didn’t particularly care. His life had become a constant state of strife, and reveling in Leila’s beauty was one of his few and most favored distractions.


Raphael strode up to Tobias’s side, hands deep in his pockets as he kicked pebbles out of his way. He followed the path of Tobias’s steadfast gaze, eyes narrowed as if he was deep in thought.


“Did She hate you?”


Tobias flinched. “What?”


“When you first met,” Raphael said. “Did Leila hate you?”


“Why would you think She hated me? Did you hate me?”


“I’m just curious.”


Tobias cast Raphael a skeptical glance. “We didn’t get along, no.”


“How did you fix that?” Raphael asked. “How did you get Her to like you?”


“Well, I didn’t try to make Her like me, it just happened, I think.”


“How?”


“I don’t know, we talked, got to know one another. Then I almost died a few times.” Tobias laughed. “You know, a very standard courtship.”


“You’re not helpful at all.”


“What am I helping you with?” The realization hit Tobias, and he smirked. “Oh. There’s a woman back home. Already? The tournament only just ended.”


Frowning, Raphael looked away. “Never mind.”


“What’s her name?”


“You’re useless.”


“Relax, I’m fucking with you.” Tobias nudged Raphael in the ribs. “When you return home, ask her questions.”


Raphael’s posture eased. “Ask her questions?”


“Yes, that’s what I did with Leila. I asked all about Her sisters, life in the palace, things of that nature. She seemed to appreciate it. And there was lots of laughter.”


“Laughter?”


“Yes, laughter. You’re familiar, I hope?” Raphael’s frown deepened, and Tobias chuckled. “Just be kind. I know that’s quite hard for you⁠—”


“Shut up.”


“I’m surprised She wasn’t impressed with your title. Surviving the Sovereign’s Tournament tends to turn men into stallions overnight. Which begs the question, how badly did you muddle everything up with this woman?”


“Go to hell.” Raphael took his leave, cursing under his breath as he joined the others at the front of the traveling party. All four of them walked and trotted in a line, leaving Tobias to follow—along with his mother, who kept up the rear as she had their whole journey.


Tobias glanced over his shoulder. His mother trailed the group on her bay mare twenty or so paces away, though it may as well have been miles. She’d joined them solely to see Tobias off, yet she hadn’t spoken a word to him since they’d left the brothel. Something had wedged itself between them ever since he’d returned home, and while he had assumed time would lessen its power, their divide only cut deeper. He’d accepted that the tournament had changed him, but it had changed her as well, and his new mother kept him at a distance—or perhaps despised him altogether.


Tobias stopped, waiting as his mother closed the space between them. Even as she reached his side, she didn’t look his way.


“I imagine it’s not much farther.” Tobias kept his words even and casual. “Once we’re there, Leila can give you the gift of shadow walking and you can return to the brothel without trouble.”


Her eyes were trained on the path ahead. “I can travel there just fine on horseback.”


“Don’t be silly. You needn’t extend yourself.”


“I’ve lived a full life without magic. I most certainly don’t need it now.”


Tobias hesitated. “That’s not exactly true,” he finally said. “Leila’s been blessing the realm for years. We’ve all benefited from Her magic.”


His mother flared her nostrils but said nothing, leaving Tobias to stew in silence. Perhaps if he could see her colors the way Leila could, he’d have some idea of how to proceed. Then again, if colors merely mirrored emotions, they were useless to him. His mother’s horrid feelings were written across her face.


He mustered a half-smile. “I’m glad you’ve come to see us off.”


“I came to see you off.” She looked his way, her gaze cutting and cold. “You’re my son. There is nothing I wouldn’t do for you.”


“And I’m grateful. I know Leila is too.”


She let out a cynical scoff. “What would She know of a mother’s love?”


Tobias nearly stopped in his tracks. “That’s an extremely cruel thing to say.”


“It’s true.”


“Her mother died trying to save Her. Leila wouldn’t be alive without that sacrifice.”


She didn’t respond, though her frame had turned to a slab of stone and her knuckles blanched as she gripped her reins. Tobias studied her, certain he could peer straight into the workings of her mind.


“Do you not like Leila?”


“The woman who’s put your life in danger?” she shot back. “Who’s plunged us into war? No, I don’t like Her much at all.”


Her words were an unexpected blow, wounding and humbling him in one sharp swoop. “She has been nothing but warm to you.”


“She has murdered men before our eyes.”


“To save us.” Tobias stopped hard, prompting the mare to do the same. “Are you really this blind?”


His mother furrowed her brow, her lips pursed. “Don’t speak to me with such contempt, I am your mother.”


“And She is my bride. I will not have you disrespect Her.”


“Look at where we are!” She gestured toward the woods around them. “Look at the hell we’ve endured at Her hands!”


“At the hands of Brontes, a corrupt dictator who’ll end us all if we don’t act.” His heartbeat ignited, and he winced, disgust lacing his words. “God, I sacrificed my apprenticeship, my passion, my life for you, and you would deny me my first happiness in years?”


“You’re a pawn in Her game.”


“Really?” he spat. “The woman who saved my life multiple times? Who risked Her own in the process?”


“She’s turned you into a murderer. I saw you fight the Giant, then again at the Culmination. I watched you kill.”


Tobias flexed his jaw. “You’d have me die in the arena instead?”


“I’d have you not in the arena at all.”


“I was there for Naomi. For you. Not for Her.” He nearly barked out his words, composure swiftly slipping away. “And how soon you forget whose blessings saved me. Had it not been for Leila, you wouldn’t have a son to find fault with.”


He charged off without parting, heading after his comrades. A roar bellowed in his chest, begging for release, though it would do him no good. His fury was merely a mask concealing his bruised pride and trampled heart.


Upon reaching the others, Tobias slowed his gait and loosened his shoulders, feigning a casualness that didn’t reach his insides. Leila furrowed Her brow. “Are you all right?”


He smiled. “Of course, darling.”


Her gaze didn’t stray, raking over him like a second skin. He pretended to be more interested in the surrounding woods, certain his eyes would betray him if he looked Her way.


“We’re losing daylight.”


Raphael’s voice stole the group’s attention, twisting Tobias’s unsettled stomach into a knot. The sun had mostly disappeared, its final rays barely visible along the skyline. The woods behind them were shrouded in blackness, and soon the path ahead would be the same.


Raphael let out an irritated sigh, adjusting his pack across his shoulder. “It might be time to consider setting up camp.”


“I thought this was supposed to be a single day’s journey?” Hylas said.


“It is,” Enzo grumbled, trotting on.


“You’re certain we’re heading the right way?” Raphael asked.


“He’s certain.” Leila’s voice came out soft and lazy, Her exhaustion not so easily hidden. “Leave him be.”


“I might share Your confidence if he’d tell us where we’re going.”


“I have told you,” Enzo said. “We go to Trogolia.”


“A whole other realm. Just like that.”


“Enough of this,” Tobias spat. “I haven’t the patience.”


Raphael grimaced, eyeing Tobias up and down. “What’s gotten you in a mood?”


Tobias stiffened, the weight of his mother’s disdain heavy on his shoulders. “We’re all tired, we’re all hungry, and we’re all ready for this to end.”


“And we kill many men!” Enzo pounded his chest, a proud grin on his face.


The back of Tobias’s neck burned as if his mother’s glare bore through his flesh. “Let’s just get to where we’re going,” he muttered.


Something within urged him to look her way, but he resisted. It wasn’t enough that the whole of Thessen thought him a traitor to the realm. His mother had to judge him too. His own feet were barely visible, but he continued on their trail regardless. If trekking through the woods was his only distraction from his shame, he’d navigate the darkness all night.


“Wait.” Hylas stopped hard. “Someone’s coming.”


The rest of the group skidded to a halt, peering into the nothingness. “Where?” Leila said.


Hylas pointed a long finger forward. “There’s light up ahead.”


Gripping the hilt of his sword, Tobias took slow, soft steps through the brush. Hylas was right. Light winked between the leaves like flickering stars.


A smile split Enzo’s face. “Hapa.” He hopped down from his horse and barreled ahead. “We go.”


“Wait,” Tobias said, but Enzo was already bounding through the woods, batting branches from his path as if his skin was impenetrable. Tobias and Leila hurried after him, ducking beneath low-hanging boughs, dodging brambles and boulders. As the foliage began to thin, they broke into a sprint, heedless to whatever dangers lay ahead.


Darkness gave way to light as Tobias burst free from the woods, stumbling to a stop at the top of a rocky hillside. Enzo stood at its edge with his hands on his hips, staring out at the vastness before them. Endless water stretched into the distance, its rippling surface reflecting the light of the setting sun.


As Tobias fought to still his breathing, Enzo turned toward him, cocking his head at the lake below.


“We are here.”



OceanofPDF.com

c3N6
    
  


  


Chapter 20

Leila


Leila had read of beaches, of their majesty and expansiveness, but nothing could’ve prepared Her for the sight of Lake Atabi. The grandeur sucked the air from Her lungs, leaving Her with the soft crashing of waves and the glistening surface spanning miles ahead. She’d never seen so much water in one place—so much anything in one place. Still, a question pestered Her.


What the hell are we doing here?


“I don’t understand,” She said.


“Lake Atabi borders Thessen and Trogolia.” Raphael and the others had reached the hilltop, the group gazing as one at the waters below. “Our destination waits on the other side.”


“We take ship,” Enzo added.


His words nearly knocked Leila off center. Wasn’t a ship out of the question? Clearly Tobias felt the same, frustration alive in his tight jaw and knitted brow. “Brontes has soldiers at all borders,” he said. “You’re leading us to our deaths.”


“Not this border.” Unperturbed, Enzo pointed a thick finger at the lake. “This border is good.”


“How is that possible?” Leila said.


“Smugglers.”


Leila raised a skeptical eyebrow. “Is that supposed to provide clarity?”


“Oh, God.” Raphael took a step back, eyeing the expansive waters below. “This is Smugglers’ Cove.”


“What’s Smugglers’ Cove?” Hylas said.


“Exactly what it sounds like.” Raphael’s mouth curled into a grimace, disdain coloring his words. “One of the inlets mules and slavers use to transport contraband between realms.”


Leila recoiled. “Slavers?” The word sputtered from Her mouth like spew. “Thessen has never allowed such cruelty.”


“But the Outlands have, and Trogolia is their neighbor.” Raphael shrugged. “They must move product somehow.”


Leila stared out at the cove, mouth opening and closing like a fish as She tried to make sense of it all. “But if the borders are guarded . . . I mean, surely soldiers⁠—”


“Are fallible and selfish,” Raphael said. “Smuggling is profitable, and the right price can convince plenty of soldiers to turn a blind eye.” His gaze panned back to the lake. “Enzo’s right. If this is Smugglers’ Cove, it’s our safest option.”


“It is Smugglers’ Cove,” Enzo maintained. “I know. I have been.”


“I’m sorry, am I missing something?” Tobias crossed his arms, his tone unusually abrasive. “Are we to just board a smuggling vessel, no questions asked?”


Enzo turned to Tobias, a grin splitting his face as he opened his arms wide. “You are smugglers.”


Leila faltered, though Her confusion was short-lived.


They were to hide in plain sight.


“We’re to pose as smugglers?” Hylas’s face fell, and he glanced between the others. “I don’t think I can. I’m not familiar with the culture, I . . . I haven’t the time to practice⁠—”


“No, no. You are slave.” Enzo nodded at Leila. “She is slave. I am slave.”


“Why am I a slave?” Leila said.


“Slaves stay in hold. No sunlight, no glow.”


“Plus, I imagine Trogolians wouldn’t take kindly to female smugglers,” Raphael added.


Leila spun toward him. “Are you telling Me women are restricted from smuggling?” She planted Her hands on Her hips. “What kind of backward profession is this?”


“As much as I’d like to discuss inequality within the criminal community, does that mean we”—Raphael gestured toward Tobias and himself—“are the smugglers?”


“Yes,” Enzo said.


“Why?”


“I protect Savior and pretty man in hold.”


Tobias straightened, gripping the hilt of his sword. “I can protect them.”


Enzo let out a boisterous laugh. “You are no slave.” He took a step back, giving the group a clear view of his muscled frame. “This is body of hardworking slave.”


Hylas looked down at his slender form, then to Leila. “What about us?”


“You are slaves for fucking.”


Leila started. “Did you just say⁠—?”


“I’m a fugitive,” Tobias cut in. “There are signs across the realm calling for my head.”


“But do they know your face?” Enzo said.


Tobias didn’t respond, setting his jaw. Enzo’s plan was a risk; Leila knew it as well as he did, but everything about their journey had been precarious. Safety was a dream She’d never known, and anyone She grew close to eventually bid it farewell.


Raphael came in close to Tobias, speaking in a placating tone. “We’ll be surrounded by Trogolians. What are the odds any of them witnessed the tournament?”


Tobias shook his head. “All it takes is one. One man recognizes me, and⁠—”


“He suddenly gains a conscience?” Raphael said. “Risks exposing his life of crime to aid the ruler of a foreign land?”


“There’s a reward.”


“And a crucifix for any smuggler who crosses into the realm.”


Tobias went quiet, gnawing at the inside of his cheek. Reddish swirls plumed from his flesh as they had for some time, ever since he’d spoken with Yucana. Leila raised Her chin, hoping to lend him Her strength. “If someone recognizes you, we’ll take care of it. We always have.”


Tobias’s eyes flitted to Yucana, then just as quickly darted away, and the shift in his demeanor made Leila’s stomach tighten. Had She done something wrong?


“Let’s go before night falls,” Tobias said. “We’ll plan our story along the way.”


Hylas and Enzo gathered their supplies for their short trek while Raphael wrangled their horses, preparing Yucana for her return to the brothel. Despite his order, Tobias remained rooted at the hilltop’s edge staring at the lake far below. His hands were balled into fists at his side, and when Leila pressed a gentle palm to his back, his muscles flexed beneath Her touch.


“You should probably say your goodbyes now.” She cocked Her head toward Yucana, who was still perched atop her steed, their black stallion and Enzo’s palomino waiting at her side. Tobias’s nostrils flared, and when he looked to his mother, red wisps tufted from his shoulders.


“You’re sure you’re all right?” Leila asked.


Tobias softened, offering Her a weak half-smile. “Just tired, is all.”


That was a lie. His angry cloud followed him as he headed off to Yucana, and though Leila couldn’t hear their words, their sour expressions spoke for them. Yucana clicked at her horse, guiding it down the path they had taken while ponying the other two steeds. All the while Tobias stood in silence, gazing into the woods long after she’d disappeared. Leila’s gut wound tighter. They’d barely spoken, hadn’t so much as touched one another, and Tobias’s colors only thickened upon her departure. What had happened between them?


The journey down the hillside was too short for Leila’s liking. Enzo methodically removed his piercings while teaching Raphael and Tobias about the world of smuggling, listing far too many nuances, customs, and codes for anyone to remember, let alone two overworked novices. They waited longer than was wise to bind Leila, Hylas, and Enzo with rope, securing their hands and ankles and linking them to a lead. Tobias apologized incessantly while tying them together, wrapping Leila in shawls to cover Her pale flesh and wincing at the sight of Her bondage. Leila feigned apathy, but Her insides twisted every time the rope scratched at Her wrists. She’d felt imprisoned Her entire life, but to experience it physically, even if it was just an act, left Her tense and on guard. Once their hike through the blackness continued, Her stomach shifted with dread. Their disguise was imperative, yet She longed for Her blade tucked away in Raphael’s pack.


The brush rustled, and Tobias and Raphael staggered to a stop. Two men appeared in their path, one with a bald head and a dagger in each fist, the other with his sword drawn.


“Not another step closer,” the second man snarled.


Squaring his shoulders, Tobias slinked his hand down to the hilt of his sword.


“We’ve come to hear the siren’s song and steal a feather from her wings,” Raphael recited.


The two men went quiet, glancing at one another before peering at the traveling party through squinted eyes. When the bald man looked Leila’s way, a horrible chill crept down Her spine. His eyes lingered on Her for far too long, then flitted toward Tobias. “Lower your cowl.”


Tobias tightened his grip on his sword. “Lower your weapon⁠—”


“He said, lower your cowl, you stupid fuck,” the second man barked, spittle flying from his rotted teeth. “Are you hard of hearing or just ugly?”


Tobias hesitated, his arms ropey and flexed. He dropped his hood, letting his cowl fall to his throat.


The silence that followed was loud, cutting through the woods with deadly intent. The bald man narrowed his eyes. “I don’t recognize either of you.”


Leila let out a quiet breath, loosening in Her restraints.


“We do business in the south of Ethyua,” Raphael said. “But border control is⁠—”


“Tits up. We know.” The second man chuckled.


The bald man didn’t share his amusement, his gaze panning the group. “You.” He pointed a dagger at Enzo. “You look familiar.”


The man with the rotted smile scoffed. “He’s Kovahrian. They all look the same.” He spat on the ground. “Pasty cunts.”


Vulgarities flooded Leila’s mouth, but She resisted their pull. The bald man’s invasive gaze was yet again set Her way.


“That your lot?” he said.


Tobias pelted him in the chest with a coin purse. “This should cover our passage.”


“You missed the slave haul. Buyers want weapons this season.”


“Our stock will fetch a fair price regardless,” Raphael added.


Still, the man’s eyes were fixed on Leila, and the path they took across Her body left Her ill. His thin lips quirked into a smirk. He tossed the purse from hand to hand. “Could cut the price in half if we have a go with her first.”


Tobias went to unsheathe his weapon, but Raphael quickly cut in. “Our buyer specifically requested his product arrive pure.”


“What he don’t know won’t hurt him.”


“You have your coin,” Tobias growled. “Accept or get out of our way.”


The man sheathed his daggers and shrugged. “Suit yourself.”


He gestured for them to follow, then turned into the woods with his comrade at his side. Raphael glanced once more between Tobias and their product before taking leave, and soon all five of them were treading through the woods toward an unknown future. Leila stumbled across the uneven ground, Her gaze flitting between Her bound ankles, their darkened trail, and the smugglers ahead. Once their guides were far from view, She hobbled to Enzo’s side.


“Is this how you arrived in Thessen?” She whispered. “Posing as a slave?”


He eyed the two men sidelong, then grunted. “Smuggler.”


“Why? I mean, I understand the need now given our circumstances, but no one is searching for you.”


“Control your product,” the bald man barked from the front of the line. “Or does your buyer like whores who run at the mouth?”


His comrade laughed. “She’ll probably get her tongue ripped out at this rate.”


“Nonsense, the tongue is vital.” The first man licked his lips and grinned. “Can’t properly suck a cock without it.”


“Our product is none of your concern,” Tobias snarled.


The smuggler cast a skeptical glance Tobias’s way. “You seem awfully miffed over a couple of slaves.”


Tobias kept one hand on the rope lead, the other firmly wrapped around the hilt of his sword. “Just tired of hearing you talk,” he grumbled.


The trees parted and the cove loomed straight ahead, vast and imposing. Leila sucked in a breath. There was something both beautiful and frightening about the boundless water, how it swallowed the blackness of the night and the glow of the moon. A ship was anchored alongside the port, and smugglers hoisted crates onto the ship’s deck while others forced horses and other livestock across the dock and up the gangplank.


“Go on.”


Leila flinched. A man stinking of liquor prodded Her with a club, nudging Her toward the dock. “You’re wasting time,” he said.


Leila swallowed hard, then followed Hylas, Enzo, and the others onto the wooden slabs and up the rickety plank. She wasn’t familiar with ships, had never seen one in person, and leaving the comfort of solid ground made Her knees wobble. Cold, salty air blasted Her face as She reached the deck, clawing past Her layers of shawls and chilling Her to the bone. Too many men wove through the space, pulling ropes, hoisting barrels, and shouting orders. She’d been transported to another world entirely, though one detail remained constant—treachery reigned supreme.


A club jabbed at Her back, sending Her staggering into Enzo’s muscled frame. “Move along,” a smuggler spat, goading Leila, Enzo, and Hylas toward an opened stairwell. “Get going.”


Leila flashed him a glare, then instinctively looked to Tobias. He stood beside Raphael amid the other smugglers, his expression unreadable, but the hodgepodge of reds, greens, and greys pluming from his flesh revealed his worries. Steeling Herself, She followed Enzo and Hylas down the steps, leaving Tobias on deck with the rest of the smugglers.


The hold was humid and rank with piss and shit. Leila followed Her allies past rows of wooden crates to a large cell—a cage fit for animals with metal bars extending from the floor to the ceiling and a padlocked gate rusted with age. Only five other slaves occupied the space, a couple of them sitting with their knees tucked into their chests while the others stood shoulder-to-shoulder in the far corner. Leila and Her comrades shuffled toward the back, tripping over their feet as they settled against the wall.


Leila flinched as the door clanked shut. A stout man with a stained tunic locked the cage in three places, then filed up the steps and slammed the hold’s grate behind him. Silence swept the space, until soft whispers and murmurings crept from wall to wall, putting Leila the slightest bit at ease.


Just then, Enzo bit at the rope wrapping his wrists and shook his head like a dog.


“For God’s sake, what are you . . . ?” Leila glanced madly across the hold. Two smugglers stood by the stairwell, passing a waterskin between them as they kept watch. “Someone will see.”


Enzo spat the shredded rope at his feet, then tackled his ankles. “If they see, I kill them.”


“You can’t just . . .” She watched as Enzo made quick work of Her bindings. “You can’t just kill them. We’re in hiding.”


“I kill who I like.”


The rope fell to the floor in a pile, and Enzo grabbed Hylas’s hands and tugged him forward, sending the gangly senator staggering into his chest.


“Oh, uh . . .” Hylas shook out his free wrists, eyes on Enzo as he untied his ankles. “Th-thank you.”


Enzo kicked the rope aside, then leaned casually against the cell wall, heedless of the nearby slaves’ prying eyes. Leila, on the other hand, was far from relaxed. She stood on Her toes, peering over the line of crates toward the front of the hold. The two smugglers spoke to one another in grunts and growls, far more occupied by their waterskin than the product they were supposed to guard, and for that She was grateful.


She leaned in toward Enzo, whispering out of the corner of Her mouth, “So, what now?”


He shrugged one shoulder. “We wait here.”


“For how long?”


“Two days. Maybe three.”


Leila bristled. Two or three days in a dank cell, the air ripe with filth, was a miserable prospect to consider, let alone endure. “What will we eat?”


Enzo cocked his head at a large barrel in the corner of the cell with a ladle at its side, and Leila frowned. “That’s water.” She squinted. “I think. I hope.”


“We are slaves,” Enzo said.


“And slaves don’t eat?” Her eyes shot wide. “Oh My God. Do slaves not eat?”


“It is just two days.”


“Or three.”


“We will be fine,” he maintained, his voice carrying a hint of calm.


Leila swallowed an irritated growl, leaning against the wall in a huff. The atmosphere had turned especially hot and sticky, and She wasn’t sure if it was due to Her raging nerves or their humid conditions. The nearby slaves fidgeted in place, their faces slick with sweat and clothes clinging to their skin. Two whispered in a language She’d never heard while others spoke Her native tongue, and one said nothing at all, resigned to his thoughts. Her heart sagged.


“We can’t save them?” She said. “Take them with us?”


Enzo was quiet for a long while before responding. “If You want to save Your realm, and my realm, and other realms . . . no.”


Leila clamped down on Her lip, unsure whether to cry, or scream, or heave Her stomach’s contents onto the floor. Instead, She dug Her fingernails into the meat of Her palms, channeling Her fury into the stinging pain as Her feeling of powerlessness grew even more profound.


Focus. It wasn’t the time for weakness. She was a queen, after all. She pulled Herself back to the task ahead and the allies at Her side. Hylas stood rigid, glassy eyes pointed at nothing in particular. Leila pressed a hand to his shoulder. “Are you all right?”


“What?” He jumped as if stirred awake. “Yes. Yes, I’m fine.”


He cast Her a feeble smile that failed to lift Her spirits. Guilt pestered Her—for the people She couldn’t free, for the turmoil Her comrades were forced to endure. She could hope for strength and composure all She liked, but this leg of their journey was rotten to the core. Leila sighed. Her thoughts were a muddled mess, but before She could spiral, She caught sight of Hylas out of the corner of Her eye.


Hylas’s chestnut gaze was large, unblinking, and fixed on Enzo—his sinewy strength, the hard planes of his chest, the squareness of his jaw. She’d never seen the senator so frozen, even entranced, and She questioned if the sweat on his brow had anything to do with the humidity at all.


Self-reproach still nipped at Her, threatening to overtake Her mind. No. She couldn’t lose Her resolve. And if that meant a slight shift in focus to distract Her thoughts, She’d take it.


“I’ve just realized, I haven’t properly introduced you two. How foolish of Me.” She tugged Enzo from the wall and slapped him on the back. “Hylas, this is Enzo. He was a competitor in My tournament—a very strong and brave competitor, as a matter of fact. He was one of the Beasts, did you know that?”


Horror swept Hylas’s face. He eclipsed Enzo in height, but his disposition was timid and unsure, as if he were hardly the beautiful specimen standing right in front of Leila. She nearly second-guessed Her decision, until pink eddies bloomed from Hylas’s flesh like peacock feathers flourished for courtship.


“Y-yes, I am aware,” he choked out.


“He’s also a personal guard to the Kovahrian queen.” Leila took hold of Enzo’s arm, hoping Her small hand made his powerful biceps appear all the more glorious. “I’m sure you know Kovahr has the fiercest warriors of all the ally realms, and to be chosen among them to aid and protect a royal?” Enzo flashed Her a look of confusion, which She gladly ignored. “Very impressive, wouldn’t you agree?”


Hylas swallowed. “Impressive indeed.”


Fuchsia clouds billowed through the air, potent enough to taste. Perfect. She nestled up beside Hylas and wrapped a firm arm around him.


“And Enzo, this is Hylas, the kindest member of My palace staff. A senator, no less!” She gave his shoulders a squeeze, sending him tottering. “He’s talented too, with the voice of a songbird, and you absolutely must hear him play the double flutes. And have you seen these eyes? So dark and hypnotizing, as if they carry a lifetime of wisdom in a single gaze. Aren’t they positively enchanting?”


Enzo stood hardened and expressionless, but his colors betrayed him, wafting from his flesh like pink steam. “They very nice.”


Leila spun toward Hylas. “Did you hear that? He likes your eyes. Isn’t his accent charming?” Pleased with Herself, She patted both of them on the cheek. “Well then, I must be going.”


“Where?” Hylas said. “We’re in a⁠—”


“Cell, yes, I know, but there’s much to be done. And the two of you must get acquainted. You’ll be spending quite a bit of time together in the coming days, and I’m sure you have plenty to discuss. You have so much in common, after all.”


Hylas’s eyes grew wide. “But⁠—”


“Talk amongst yourselves. That’s an order.”


She abandoned them, a proud smile on Her lips as She marched off through the limited space. Romance was a worthy distraction, and She’d certainly need one during their hellish voyage. She reached the water barrel at the edge of the cell. It smelled questionable, and the film atop its surface gave Her considerable pause. Then wisps of pink carrying the scent of caramelized sugar wafted through the air around Her, and triumph beamed in Her chest once more.


“The last run. You’re sure?”


Leila’s spine straightened. The two smugglers stood paces away, passing their waterskin as they spoke in low tones. She turned Her back to them, ladling Herself some water and pretending to sip it while listening to their conversation.


“I’m not risking it. You’d be smart to stay off deck too.” One of the men took a gulp from the skin—it was filled with liquor most likely, as he coughed over its harsh bite. “The waters aren’t safe for us any longer.”


“Why the fuck is Trogolia lumped in with this mess?” the second man said. “That bloody bitch is Thessen’s burden.”


The hairs on Leila’s arms stood straight. She fought to feign apathy, but She was frozen in place, captivated by every word that left their lips.


“It’s the same ole diplomatic fuckery,” the first smuggler scoffed. “The king plays nice, supports the sovereign, and trade agreements continue as normal.” He chugged another mouthful, then licked his lips loudly. “I’m telling you, if you want to do business, do it fast, because that bastard Brontes isn’t cocking around.”


Leila shuddered at Her father’s name. Trogolia was to be their escape, but the next words the smuggler spoke sent Her nails digging into the wooden ladle.


“By the end of this week, Trogolia will be crawling with Thessian soldiers.”



OceanofPDF.com

c3U4
    
  


  


Chapter 21

Tobias


Tobias didn’t sleep that night. He’d kept his eyes trained on the hold, reaching for his sword each time someone neared it. Enzo had promised to protect Leila, but having Her out of sight left him on edge. How he could manage two days of this, he hadn’t a clue.


A man with a machete tucked into his belt hoisted up the hold’s grate and shuffled down the steps. Tobias flagged over the watchman. “What’s his business down there?”


“What does it matter to you?” the watchman said.


“My product isn’t to be meddled with, buyer’s orders.”


The watchman scoffed, then bit into a half-eaten apple. “You and your product. I’ve never seen a man so concerned over whores.”


Whores. Tobias bristled at the slur. The art of the courtesan was a respected and highly paid occupation in Thessen. No one spoke like that where he was from, save for the occasional foreigner—and men like Flynn. Tobias curled his hands into fists, and he could’ve sworn they were still wet with the noble’s blood, a stain that could never be washed away.


The smuggler emerged from the hold, and only then did a fraction of Tobias’s worries lift. Sighing, he leaned against the ship railing. “I fucking hate this.”


Raphael stood at his side as he had for the entirety of their journey. He gazed vacantly at the lake, uncharacteristically silent.


“Raph?”


“What?” Raphael flinched. “Yes, exactly.”


“Are you all right?”


Raphael scoffed. “Well, the last time I was surrounded by water, an enormous eel tried to eat me. But otherwise, I’m just grand.”


The labyrinth ravine bombarded Tobias’s mind, filling his thoughts with dark water and blood. “Right. That was a stupid question.” His stomach knotted. “Do you want to⁠—?”


“Don’t,” Raphael said. “Just . . . don’t do that.”


A hard slap on the back sent Tobias lurching forward. Two meaty hands spun him around, bringing him face to face with a smuggler with bloodshot eyes and thinning brown hair. “Your turn, cunts.” His breath was pungent with the scent of liquor. “Bet on the bub.”


Tobias faltered. “Bet on the bub?”


The man gestured toward a group behind him. Smugglers of all backgrounds whooped and hollered, circling two red-faced men resting their hands on their knees.


“Thirteen’s the draw and fifteen’s the high,” he said. “Go on. What’s your call?”


Tobias stood blank-faced, eyes darting between the man in front of him and the horde paces away. What even was the bub? He opened his mouth to speak, but not a single word took form.


“Seventeen,” Raphael cut in. “Odds on the short one.”


The smuggler barked Raphael’s bet toward the group, and the two hunched men cringed in response. Goaded by cheers, the taller of the two punched his opponent in the groin four times, sending him gagging and buckling forward. The onlookers laughed and jeered at the dry-heaving man, but after some time he straightened himself, pain etched across his face. He wound up his fist and returned the favor, punching the taller man in the cock just twice before he was on his knees retching. The crowd roared, tossing coin at the shorter man that he pocketed eagerly.


“Look at that, we’ve got a natural!” The smuggler at Tobias’s side wrapped an arm around Raphael and gave him a too-firm squeeze.


“Short man, short cock.” Raphael shrugged. “Must be at least a modicum less painful. I wouldn’t know, myself.”


The smuggler guffawed, handing over a coin purse before returning to the most bizarre game Tobias had ever witnessed. As Raphael counted his winnings, Tobias eyed him up and down. “What was that?”


“That was blending in,” Raphael said.


The crowd lifted the winning bub onto their shoulders as he cupped his balls, a pained grimace plastered across his face. “Is this how we’re to spend our time?” Tobias asked. “Watching criminals punch each other in the cock?”


Raphael let out a long breath. “Two days. We can manage.”


His melancholic gaze drifted back to the lake. The last time Tobias had been so close to him, they’d sat on the palace steps, sharing secrets that could’ve gotten them killed—and nearly did. That moment might as well have been a lifetime ago, but Raphael’s far-off stare remained the same.


“How’s your brother?”


“What?” Raphael spun toward Tobias, eyes narrowed. “Why would you ask that?”


“I assume that’s where you learned all of this. Unless the archives have a wing devoted to the gambling habits of smugglers.”


Raphael went quiet for a long while, his frame slowly loosening. Their conversation from the palace steps was ingrained in Tobias’s mind—how Raphael had entered the tournament solely for the benefit of his degenerate brother, just as Tobias had done for Naomi.


A flicker of a smile crossed Raphael’s lips. “My brother traveled with all kinds of seedy sorts. He would’ve been perfect for this mission.”


“Is he well?” Tobias said.


Raphael’s shoulders stiffened, and he turned once more toward the water. “He’s dead.”


The words hit Tobias like a fist. “Raph . . . God, I’m so⁠—”


“Why are you angry with your mother?” Raphael interjected.


A part of Tobias wanted to pry, but based on Raphael’s eagerness to change the subject, he thought better of it. “Was it that obvious?”


“It was extremely uncomfortable.”


Sighing, Tobias rested his elbows on the ship railing, joining Raphael in his lake-gazing. “She doesn’t like Leila.”


“Really? Why? Leila’s intelligent, She’s resourceful, She’s lovely when She isn’t in a mood.”


Tobias ground his teeth. “She thinks Leila turned me into a killer.”


“Oh. Hm.” Raphael wrinkled his nose. “Well, she does have a point.”


“She does not have a point. We’re trying to prevent the destruction of our realm.”


“Trust me, I understand completely,” Raphael said. “Your mother will see logic eventually. Besides, hating Leila is essentially sacrilege, so if reason doesn’t catch up with her, duty will.”


“Bitches!”


A rotund man wedged himself between Raphael and Tobias, wrapping his arms around their shoulders. He laughed heartily, his voice gravelly and thick. “Beautiful boy bitches. Welcome to The Oyster’s Tits, our vessel of sin and debauchery. We aim to corrupt you yet.”


Tobias frowned, crammed against the man’s sweaty tunic. “Corrupt us? We’ve been in this line of work for ages.”


“Fuck off. You’re five years old.” The smuggler pinched Tobias’s cheek like a doting grandmother. “Look at this mug. A mere babe fresh from the womb.” He turned toward the deck. “Men, help me welcome these cock stains!”


Cheers erupted from a group of smugglers a fair distance away. Before Tobias or Raphael could protest, the man pushed them toward the throng, forcing their compliance. The others were in varied states of rest, sitting atop wooden barrels as they chugged liquor and snacked on something from burlap purses. Tobias’s stomach growled. He hadn’t eaten in hours, and as if reading his thoughts, a smuggler tossed two purses his and Raphael’s way. Tobias pulled the drawstring, then stopped short. Dried leaves. Was this to be their sustenance? Raphael was already mirroring the others, so Tobias followed suit, taking a bite of a pitiful frond and grimacing over its acidic flavor. Food fit for horses.


“This here is my crew.” The large man gestured toward four smugglers open-mouth chewing their paltry meal. “Been sailing together for north of twenty years, I’d say.”


“Next to Kareem’s big mouth and bigger ass, it feels like longer,” one of them said, sparking an uproar. The smuggler named Kareem feigned to slug him, then barked out a laugh. His deeply cut tunic clung to his round form, his sleeves rolled up to the elbows, revealing light brown skin covered in black hair. A faded blue turban wrapped his head, and three fingers on his left hand were mere stumps ending at the first knuckle.


“That’s Dutch over there.” Kareem flicked a dismissive wrist toward a muscled man with brownish-blond hair tied into a low ponytail. “Mainly deals in potions and elixirs⁠—”


“I do it all,” Dutch said.


“You do it all to right shit, but your potion deals aren’t half bad.”


The entire group howled over Kareem’s joke, even Dutch, his freckled nose wrinkling as he slapped his knee. A scar ran down his cheek and split through his upper lip like a canyon forged through his pinkish flesh.


Kareem gestured across from him. “And this ugly wretch is Mal, our resident pisspot with the same rank smell.”


“Don’t test him, Kareem,” another smuggler added. “You’ll lose more than your fingers.”


The men whooped and snickered at Kareem’s expense, who waved them away. “I’m yanking his cock. You won’t find a better witch hunter in all the ally realms.”


Mal said nothing, grinding a leaf between his teeth. Shoulder-length brown hair fell in greasy tangles down his face, and though he wasn’t particularly large or well-built, the glare behind his dark eyes and the scars crisscrossing his bronze flesh reminded Tobias of an enemy forever seared into his mind.


“And you are?” Mal said.


Tobias popped a leaf into his mouth, looking Mal hard in the eyes. “None of your concern.”


Kareem guffawed. “The babes are scared. Quivering in their dainty sandals.”


“We take caution in our line of work.” Raphael cocked his head at Kareem’s stumpy fingers. “Seems you’d be wise to do the same.”


The group erupted into laughter, save for Mal, who kept his attention on Tobias. “You trade in Ethyua?”


“For some time now,” Tobias said. “But the borders⁠—”


“We know all about the borders.” Mal leaned forward, resting his elbows on his knees. “Won’t be much better where we’re headed, I’m afraid.”


Tobias glanced at Raphael only to be met by an equally confused expression.


“You haven’t heard?” Mal said. “Thessian soldiers are en route to Trogolia as we speak.” He smirked. “They’re searching for their Savior and Her precious Artist.”


A lump lodged in Tobias’s throat. His sword beckoned him, suddenly heavy on his hip, but he resisted its call.


“A waste of time.” Raphael leaned back casually, chewing on his pitiful rations. “She’s likely dead already.”


Mal shrugged. “The land looked plenty fertile to me. I’d say ole Brontes knows exactly what he’s doing.”


“You think they’re in Trogolia?” Tobias said.


“Something like that.”


Tobias’s body practically vibrated with anger, but he forced himself still, turning every violent impulse inward. Tell Leila. Instead, he tore into another leaf, channeling his frustration in his gnashing teeth.


“To hell with politics.” Kareem spat onto the deck floor and gestured toward Raphael. “What’s your specialty? Strictly slaves, or⁠—?”


“We dabble in weaponry,” Raphael said, “but slaves have kept our bellies full since we came of age.”


“I saw your lot.” Mal’s lips shrank into a straight line. “Rather small, to be frank.”


“We focus on quality over quantity.”


“Aye,” Dutch chimed in. “That workman will fetch a good price, but your whores—especially the woman—they’re a fine claim.”


“You’ve got a rare one?” Kareem said. “Most are homely—missing teeth and all that.”


“Oh, not this one.” Dutch’s hands mirrored his words, mapping out the path of Leila’s body. “Small waist, pert tits, and skin so fair, you’d want to hike up her dress just to see if her⁠—”


“She’s spoken for,” Tobias said, barely containing his ire. “Her buyer has very specific tastes, and She’s not to be tampered with.”


With a laugh, Dutch nudged one of his crewmates in the ribs. “That’s the beauty of this trade.” A toothy grin swept his face. “We tamper all we please.”


The rage in Tobias’s chest bubbled and seethed, climbing down his arms and threatening to send them swinging. He clamped another leaf between his teeth and ripped it in half, wishing the smuggler before him could waste away just as easily.


“Look at this one!” Kareem slugged Tobias hard in the shoulder. “Throwing ’em back like a quartermaster, putting us to shame.”


“Developed a tolerance already?” Dutch said. “Your shits must come out like bricks.”


“Ah, fuck off, they’re just catching up. I’ve been rolling since dawn.” Kareem chuckled.


“Remember when Kareem went absolutely feral?” One of his crewmates leaned forward, a maniacal look in his eyes. “You’d think it was his first time on kaeko. Bloody fuck must’ve eaten his entire purse.”


“Oh my God.” Raphael sat up straight, stony and silent for a long moment. He grabbed Tobias by the wrist and stood. “Excuse us. Need to piss.”


“Together?”


Raphael ignored Dutch, pulling Tobias across the deck to the ship railing, far from listening ears. As Tobias rifled for another leaf, Raphael slapped the burlap purse from his hands.


“This is kaeko.” Raphael’s voice came out in a hiss. “This is fucking kaeko.”


Tobias looked down at the discarded pile on the floor, perplexed. “It’s a leaf.”


“It’s a stimulant with very powerful side effects,” Raphael said.


“I thought it was our rations for the day.”


“Sailors take it to pass the time, ward off sea sickness, settle the stomach. And we’ve been popping them like olives.”


Raphael’s gaze became probing, and the look troubled Tobias. “So, that means our stomachs will be very well settled, yes?”


“No, that’s not what it fucking means.”


“Bitches!” Kareem’s voice bellowed across the deck. “Stop stroking your cocks and come back to papa! Sit on his lap. We’ll tell you stories of yesteryear.”


Raphael’s expression shifted from shock to horror. “They’ve had a fraction of what we’ve had, and they want us to sit on their laps!”


“Relax, they’re joking.” Trepidation nipped at Tobias, but he ignored it, feigning composure. “Let’s just go back and blend in.”


“Blend in?” Raphael spat. “We’re fucked.”


“I don’t feel a thing.”


“I feel something. I feel totally, utterly fucked!”


Someone plucked at a pandura in the distance, and the melody of double flutes joined its rhythm. “Hear that?” Tobias said. “They’re distracted. We can sit idly and listen to music in peace.”


“You are so full of shit, Tobias Kaya. You’re always⁠—”


“For God’s sake, Raph, you sound paranoid as all hell.”


Raphael froze. “Extreme amounts of kaeko can cause paranoia.” Sweat beaded along his forehead. “It’s happening, Tobias. It’s happening!”


Tobias grabbed Raphael’s face and pulled him close. “Listen here, and listen well. We are going to join those men and behave as ordinary smugglers or God help me, I will summon the storms and sink this vessel myself.”


Raphael’s eyes widened in disbelief, a sentiment Tobias shared. He had barely felt his arms move, hadn’t even formed the words in his mind before they’d left his mouth. His body was somehow two steps ahead of his thoughts, and the disconnect jarred him.


Raphael swallowed. “Kaeko can also cause heightened levels of aggression.”


Tobias dropped his hands. “Who’s aggressive? No one’s aggressive.” He nudged Raphael in the ribs. “Come. We’ll be fine.”


He marched toward the group, practically dragging Raphael at his side and forcing him into his seat. The other smugglers were feeling the effects of the kaeko—Tobias could see it in their clammy skin, bulging eyes, and uproarious laughter. Some played instruments atop barrels while others danced foolishly, stumbling in dizzying circles to the beat of the music.


“There’s our bitches!” Kareem raised his arms overhead, exposing the largest pit stains Tobias had ever seen. “All right then. It’s your first time to Trogolia⁠—”


“It’s not our first time,” Raphael sputtered. He turned to Tobias. “Did you say it was our first time? I know I didn’t.”


Kareem chuckled at Raphael’s expense, then leaned in close. “Bit of advice: steer clear the inns of Shafer. They’re loaded with guards. Stick to Oxsanan. That’s where the lot of us rest our heads.”


“The Fireside Inn is a sound spot,” one of Kareem’s crewmates offered, his mouth nearly devoid of teeth. “The owner’s a former man of the sea, understands our kind. His daughters are ugly as sin, but they’ll spread their legs for anyone, which is all well by me.”


“It won’t make a difference where they stay.” Mal leaned back, one of the few men unaffected by the brittle leaves. “Now that Thessen’s extended its reach, Trogolia will be just another military state.”


The air turned thick. Tobias feigned indifference, pretending to be more interested in the music than anything Mal had to say, but his blood was already simmering.


“What about you?” Dutch rolled something brown and slimy across his teeth, sucking at it loudly. “You think the bitch is in Trogolia?”


“Which bitch?” the toothless man said.


“The Savior of Thessen, you horse’s ass.”


“She’s absolutely crossed the lake.” One of Mal’s men lounged across two barrels, using his hat to shield his face from the sun. “Brontes has triple the soldiers headed for Trogolia versus Ethyua, a realm nearly five times our size.” He waved a dismissive wrist. “She’s there, and he knows it.”


Kareem let out a hearty laugh. “Guess She’s fucked, then.”


“There’s a reward for Her Artist’s head,” Dutch said. “They don’t stand a chance.”


“To hell with the reward,” Kareem sneered. “Thessen hasn’t respect for our kind. And Brontes is more than keen to upend our lives and wave his troops around like a swollen cock.”


“Fuck Brontes,” Tobias spat. “May he burn for eternity and a lifetime longer.”


Tobias went stiff. It had happened again—words tumbling from his mouth free of his bidding. Only then did he notice the sweat seeping through his tunic, his quickened heartbeat, and the feral ferocity consuming him.


Kareem slapped Tobias hard on the back. “I like this one. He understands our plight.” He turned to the others. “Everyone now, fuck Brontes!”


The smugglers cheered in unison. “Fuck Brontes!”


“May his stones roast over hot coals and his entrails be devoured by pigs,” Tobias growled.


He forced back a cringe. God, what is wrong with me?


Kareem threw his head back with laughter. “He’s a fucking lunatic!”


The men whooped and hollered once more, and for some ungodly reason Tobias reveled in it. He stood on the arena sands, his sword in Antaeus’s gut—a memory that should’ve chilled him, yet his heart roared with victory. No, this wasn’t good at all, yet the sensation was intoxicating, as if he’d suddenly become a god among men.


“Meanwhile this one’s wound so tight, you could shovel limestone up his ass and he’d shit out marble.” Kareem slugged Raphael, who nearly jumped from his seat. His face was slick with sweat, his breathing laborious, and Tobias couldn’t recall the last time he’d seen the man blink.


Kareem flagged another smuggler over. “Samuel, loosen him up!”


A large man covered in tattoos headed toward them, grabbing Raphael by the wrists and hoisting him upright. “No, wait.” Raphael madly glanced at the others, a skittish mouse caught in the clutches of a housecat. “Don’t touch me!”


His protests fell on deaf ears as Samuel threw Raphael into the mix of dancing men, sending him staggering in circles. Perhaps Tobias should’ve rescued him, but his ass remained rooted to his seat, his body and tongue ungoverned by his will.


“What about you?” Dutch slugged Tobias’s shoulder. “Would you take ole Brontes’s reward?”


Tobias didn’t answer, couldn’t answer, as his voice was no longer his own. Kaeko had stripped him of control and rationality, had turned the world around him to a mass of swirling color. At some point Kareem yanked him from his seat, but Tobias could barely feel his touch, lost in the beautiful frenzy of his mind.


“Enough talk of Thessen, for fuck’s sake!” Kareem shoved Tobias into the group of dancing men. “Bitch boy! You’re up!”


A smuggler linked his arm with Tobias’s, and round he twirled, the plunk of the pandura vibrating in his chest. Dancing was the last thing he should be doing. Brontes knew of their plans to head to Trogolia—how, he hadn’t a clue—and he needed to warn Leila and the others, to formulate a new plan. Still, his feet kept pace with the rhythm, and at some point, he was clapping to the music and laughing with the other men as if they were old friends. Time had lost significance. He could’ve been dancing for minutes or days, but either way he wasn’t the slightest bit tired, his skin lit with energy, his body bright and alive.


Tobias broke free from the horde and leaned against the ship railing next to Raphael, who was huffing and puffing, eyes clenched shut.


“My chest feels like it’s going to burst,” he said between haggard breaths. He opened his eyes and shrieked. “What are you doing?”


A fresh leaf was wedged between Tobias’s teeth, a new burlap purse in his hands. He dropped it, stunned. “I don’t even know how I got this.”


“My brain is a hornet’s nest.” Raphael tilted his head back, still fighting to catch his breath. “I can feel the world sinking down on me.”


“Brontes knows about Trogolia,” Tobias said. “We’re headed straight to him.”


“I know. We’re going to die.”


“We’ll destroy him.” Tobias pounded his fist into his open palm. “We’ll lay waste to his army with a single battle. God, I feel fucking invincible.”


“I’m empty inside. A husk of a man.”


“Aye, bitch boys!” Kareem flagged them over, and they promptly obeyed, Raphael less willingly than Tobias. “Has anyone told you about the brothels on shore?”


“Oh ho ho, that’s the important stuff!” His crewmate flashed his near toothless grin. “Once we dock, head straight for the Twisted Nipple. Anything goes in that house. And I mean anything.”


“Or they could just have a go with their product.” Dutch let out a groan of pleasure. “I swear to God, that woman’s tits⁠—”


“Her tits are Her own and are not to be played with,” Tobias snarled.


Dutch laughed. “Well, if you’re not going to make use of her, I will.”


Tobias gripped the front of Dutch’s tunic and pulled him dangerously close. “Touch Her and I will snap off your fingers and feed them to you, you noxious swine.”


“I have no interest in brothels.” Raphael let out a sigh, eyes pointed at the sky above. “I’m in love. There is no other woman for me.”


“You’re in love?” Tobias gasped, releasing Dutch and slinging an arm around Raphael’s shoulders. “Everyone, my dearest comrade has found himself a bride!”


Raphael shook his head. “I’ll never have her. I’ll never have anyone. I’m so alone.” His lip wobbled, and he burst into tears.


“How pathetic.” One of Dutch’s crewmates pointed a gnarled finger Raphael’s way. “This sad sop is pining for a woman who doesn’t know he exists.”


“She is the sunlight at dawn, the petals of a dandelion, and I . . .” Raphael paused, sobbing into his palms. “I am surrounded by disgusting criminals hopped up on kaeko as we head to the most wretched of all the ally realms.” The smugglers around him roared triumphantly, and he cast them a sideways glance. “Why are you cheering? I hate all of you!”


Tobias pulled Raphael in close, speaking with a severity that absolutely, unequivocally fit the seriousness of the situation. “Listen to me, good man—you tell her how you feel. Sing it from the rooftops. Proclaim your desires and make her yours.”


“I can’t.” Raphael sniveled. “She doesn’t want me.”


Tobias slapped him across the cheek. “Have courage! You are a man of limitless power.”


“What power? I couldn’t save my brother. I can’t even wield a blade.”


Tobias landed another hard slap across the opposite cheek. “You have thought and wisdom. You radiate with the power of a thousand cocks. Say it with me.”


“I radiate with the power of a thousand cocks,” Raphael choked out.


Tobias grabbed him by the shoulders. “You carry yourself with pride and tell her what’s in your heart and loins.”


“And if she turns me away?”


“Then you respect her decision. You must. But know you did all you could.”


Raphael tipped his head back and wailed, and once again Tobias’s palm went flying. “Pull yourself together!”


“Why do you keep slapping me?”


“I don’t know! I’m sorry!”


“I don’t know about you lot, but my cock’s as stiff as a board.” Dutch adjusted his trousers and stood. “’Bout time for some relief, yes?”


The other smugglers patted him on the back as he sauntered away from the group and disappeared into the hold. All the while Tobias watched, his glare burning a hole through the grate.


“Dutch wants to fuck Leila.”


“He totally wants to fuck Leila,” Raphael confirmed.


“I will strip him apart limb from limb,” Tobias growled. “I will flay his skin like leather. I will⁠—”


“You could just stop him.”


“Yes, that’s a reasonable option as well.”


The two men sprinted to the hold, and Tobias stomped at the grate. “You stay away from Her, Dutch!”


“We have the power of a thousand cocks on our side!” Raphael screeched.


“I will beat in this grate!” Tobias launched his heel into the wood grain, channeling his limitless strength. “I will beat it until⁠—”


“Tobias.”


“What?”


“Just open the grate.”


“Huh?”


The slats burst beneath Tobias’s weight, and he catapulted down the hold stairs, turning head over feet until he collided with Dutch and toppled to the floor. Aches and pangs splintered through him, but he forced himself upright. Dutch lay unconscious at his feet, and past a series of crates in a barred cell stood a handful of people staring straight at him—including Leila.


Tobias’s vision blurred, fading in and out with the throbbing of his skull and sending him swaying. A man appeared at his side, attempting to right him.


“Unhand me!” Tobias ripped his arm free and staggered to the side. “I’m perfectly fine!”


His vision went black, and he dropped face-first to the floor.



OceanofPDF.com

c40G
    
  


  


Chapter 22

Leila


Two days locked in a damp cell rocking from side to side. Two days of no sleep and an empty stomach, of agonizing silence and raging anxiety. Leila assumed the conditions would drive Her mad before they ever reached port, so when a smuggler announced their arrival, relief swept Her like a rising tide. She’d been all too eager to resecure Her rope bindings and hurry up the hold steps, wincing at the blinding sting of the sun. She wrapped Her shawls tight around Her, shielding Her light while madly scanning the deck.


Tobias stood amid the other smugglers, his chest expanding with a deep breath when his eyes locked with Hers. She hadn’t seen him the entire voyage, save for his brief and confusing bungle in the hold—She’d have to ask him about that. He and Raphael headed Her way, and She fought the urge to wrap him in Her arms as he rested a gentle hand to the small of Her back.


“Stay close,” he whispered.


She did as instructed, alongside Enzo and Hylas, pointing Her face to the floor to avoid the sunlight. They filed across the deck to the gangplank with the other smugglers and slaves, and when it was Her turn to depart, She took in the foreign realm before Her.


Sandy beaches and clear waters—that’s what She had expected, a sight not unlike Smugglers’ Cove. Instead, She was met with a port more cramped than the holding cell, packed with people pushing forward to no avail. The coastline was rocky and manufactured, littered with barnacle-ridden wooden docks leading to stone pathways patchy with stains. Something about the air was cool and heavy despite the early morn, and the buildings were uniform and devoid of color. Leila hadn’t traveled much, but She’d never seen a place greyer.


Flecks of red dotted the endless stretch of people. Thessian soldiers were scattered across the port, and Leila’s empty stomach caved in on itself.


“Oh God,” She whispered.


Hylas took Her hand and squeezed it as they maneuvered down the gangplank much more reluctantly than She had anticipated. She’d heard the smugglers’ chatter, had known to expect Brontes’s men, but the sight of them still chilled Her. Soon, She was one with the sea of bodies, craning to peer over heads and shoulders and fighting for purchase. Soldiers were stationed in front of paths and alleyways, some in red crested helmets, others in unpolished steel plates as grey as the realm they patrolled. There were so many of them, more than Leila had ever seen in one place. Even worse, every single exit was blocked. She’d left one cage only to find Herself in another.


A Trogolian guard climbed atop the pedestal of a weathered statue, towering over the masses. He blew into a long horn, producing a piercing noise that sent the people to near silence.


“Travelers, take notice,” the guard said. “Our strong and noble king has extended his aid to the sovereign of Thessen from across the Atabi. From this day until the task’s completion, Trogolia and Thessen will work as one to locate their lost Savior and Her captor.”


Though She was hidden amid the masses, Leila couldn’t help but shrink, content to disappear.


“All of you must pass through inspection before entering our realm.” Shouting tore through the port, and the guard raised his voice. “No exceptions. Treat the Thessian soldiers as you would any guard of Trogolia. Heed their word or face swift and severe consequences.”


“Fuck,” Tobias growled.


“How do they know?” Hylas’s voice caught. “We didn’t tell anyone. How could they possibly assume⁠—?”


“Quiet,” Raphael said. He cocked his head at the surrounding people, his meaning clear.


Leila gnawed at Her bottom lip. Someone must’ve warned Brontes, but who? She shook Herself. As desperate as She was for answers, it wasn’t the time. They needed to leave the port, and they needed to do it immediately.


“The guards.” Leila spoke softly, checking for listening ears. “How do we get past them?”


Enzo nodded decidedly. “I kill.”


Leila winced at his too-loud tone and elbowed him in the ribs. “The entire guard? In front of all these people?”


“All it takes is one.” Hylas’s eyes panned from soldier to soldier. “One guard falls, and we slip away.”


Leila’s back shot straight. She stood on Her toes, craning Her neck to peer past the throng. There—a soldier stood by his lonesome in front of an alleyway, hand resting atop the hilt of his sword. The crowd was thinnest near him, and the darkness of the path he protected promised discretion.


The path forward was starkly clear. She had a plan—it was reckless and stupid, but tempting the fates had become Her norm, and She was not about to die on the muggy shores of Trogolia.


“Cover Me.”


Tobias glanced over his shoulder at Her and looked Her up and down. “Your skin is well hidden. No one can see Your light.”


“I need . . .” Leila scanned the nearby people. She whispered, “I need to shadow walk.”


Tobias started. “Leila, You can’t⁠—”


“There’s no other way.”


Tobias stood silent for a moment, visibly tense. She couldn’t blame his reluctance. It was a terrible plan amid even worse options, but She had made up Her mind.


“That guard, over there.” She gestured his way. “The second I’m gone, make your way in that direction. I’ll meet you there.”


With a disgruntled growl, he reached behind him, slipping Her blade into the palm of Her hand.


“Be safe,” he whispered.


Leila eyed Her surroundings once more. There were so many people, so much potential for failure, but She had no other options. She furiously sawed at the rope binding Her wrists and ankles. Once She was free, the men shifted in place, forming a barrier around Her that was hardly subtle. Someone would surely see Her. Stop it. Discretion was impossible in these conditions, so instead She’d rely on speed.


“I’ll see you soon,” She whispered.


Light burst behind Her eyelids, and a half-second later She stood amid the shadows of the alleyway, the helmeted soldier mere paces away.


Leila swallowed a groan. The soldier basked in the sunlight, too public, too visible. She stepped back, allowing the blackness to swallow Her whole, then cleared Her throat.


Nothing. The soldier remained at his post, standing lazily, almost bored. Leila cleared Her throat louder, again, but still he was unmoving. She rolled Her eyes. “Sir?”


The soldier jumped, then spun around. “Is someone there?”


“Sir,” Leila said in a meek, trembling voice. “I think I’m lost.”


“You’re not supposed to be here.” He squinted into the darkness. “This port is closed for inspection.”


He took a step toward Her, then another. Leila watched each of his footfalls, waiting for the ideal moment. “Please, can you help Me?” She readied Her blade in Her fist. “I’m just trying to find My way home.”


“Bloody hell,” the soldier mumbled. He unsheathed his sword, his stance defensive, but Leila kept Her eyes on the shadows. A couple more steps, and the soldier was cloaked in darkness—a perfect target.


Behind him.


Power swelled within Her, and She slammed Her blade into the soldier’s lower back, digging in deep with a sharp twist. The man buckled beneath his weight, and She covered his mouth to stifle his cry while swiping Her weapon across his throat. Blood sputtered from the open wound like a geyser, but She hadn’t time to avoid the mess. Grabbing the soldier’s wrists, She yanked once, twice, three times before She was able to drag him deeper into the alleyway, propping him against the wall as his life faded away.


Leila fought to still Her breathing, discarding one of Her bloodied shawls alongside the corpse. A voice echoed down the alleyway.


“Leila?” Tobias’s head poked around the corner.


“Hurry,” She said, and the four men came trotting Her way, glancing over their shoulders one last time before following Her into the darkness.


They wound through side streets and empty passages, allowing Enzo to take the lead. Leila studied the path behind them more times than She could count, but no one was following them. Somehow, they had managed to escape unnoticed, and amid Her fear and paranoia was a glimmer of self-satisfaction.


She turned Her attention to the foreign land around Her, one that left much to be desired. Perhaps She’d been unfair when first assessing Thessen, as something about Trogolia was inherently darker in comparison, the sky more grey than blue, the air carrying a strange, almost sooty taste. Most of the buildings were made of wooden slats warped with age, with roofs covered in cracking tiles discolored by weather. Someone dumped a bucket out of a window, sloshing what looked like a mixture of piss and shit across the road and nearly spraying Leila’s feet. She couldn’t stop Herself from gasping. Tossing shit onto the road? Who would do such a thing? She eyed every passing puddle thereafter, skeptical of their contents.


Enzo swerved down a nearby road, and Leila and the others followed, heading straight into the thick of town. People in grey cloaks and greyer tunics scuttled by close enough to smell, and Leila cowered, hiding beneath Her last shawl. Nobody looked Her way, which shouldn’t have surprised Her, but after weeks of being hunted, anonymity wasn’t something She was accustomed to. Then the familiar clinking of armor rang out in the distance, and She clenched, instinctually gripping Her blade. Tobias took Her free hand and held it tight. The warmth of his touch was soothing, but She didn’t let Her guard down, searching the road ahead for armored soldiers. Enzo was one step ahead of Her, taking them down a narrow alleyway, and She only relaxed once the darkness blanketed Her.


They reached the edge of town, or at least She assumed so. The roads had turned from stone to dirt, and sparse plant life sprouted from the dry ground in spindly tufts. The buildings became even more dilapidated with doors hanging off hinges and planks blocking off windows. Surely no one lived within these ruins.


Leila tugged at Enzo’s sleeve. “Where are we going?”


“Somewhere safe,” he said.


Leila set Her jaw. Safe was an anomaly in these conditions, but She followed him anyway, Her life firmly resting in the Kovahrian’s hands.


They reached their destination. Enzo stopped in front of . . . actually, Leila wasn’t sure what it was, the structure so weathered and worn She feared it may collapse. Wooden slats charred black barely held up a rickety roof made of the same timber, and remnants of a fence encircled it, most of the posts lying flat on the ground. It couldn’t possibly be the right place, but Enzo headed through the doorless entryway, gesturing for the others to follow.


Dust floated from the ceiling and coated Her lungs. A few slivers of sunlight spilled through holes in the ceiling and walls, and She avoided them, content to stifle Her glow for as long as possible. The floor was layered with dirt and hay that scraped Leila’s toes with each step She took. There was an eeriness to Her accommodations, but She was glad for it all the same.


“What is this place?” She asked.


Enzo had already begun pushing his piercings into their usual places. “Somewhere safe,” he repeated.


“Yes, I feel very safe here,” Raphael muttered, eyeing the disrepair.


“Is old mill. Caught fire long ago.” Enzo gestured toward the charred walls before swooping his final silver hoop into his septum. “Squatters, they come here.”


“Which means we can’t stay for long,” Tobias said.


“You stay for now.” Enzo grabbed one of Raphael’s satchels and dug through it, tossing an apple to Leila and Hylas before snatching up his own. “Eat. I go.”


“Where?” Leila said.


“I get us real food. Until then, you wait.”


“You’re leaving us?” Hylas spoke between munches.


“These foods are for horses and sheep. I know these streets. I find something good.” He stopped at the doorway and flashed a smile. “It is fine.”


He disappeared, leaving a welcome silence in his wake. Leila exhaled, taking in the first semblance of peace She’d felt in days. She locked eyes with Tobias—his shoulders sagged, his gaze heavy with exhaustion—then threw Herself into his arms, sinking into his embrace as his hands crawled up Her back.


“I’ve missed You.” Tobias nuzzled against Her hair, then pulled away, taking Her face in his palms. “How are You faring?”


“Well enough.” She took his hands in Her own. “That whole frenzy in the hold. What exactly happened?”


“Nothing happened,” Tobias and Raphael said in unison.


Leila furrowed Her brow but said nothing. She’d barely taken in the other two men; Raphael was still eyeing their surroundings, his nostrils flared in disgust, while Hylas appeared lost and unsure, his slender frame gaunter than the day before. Leila tossed a second apple his way before digging into Hers, Her stomach roaring with hunger that She happily satiated. Ease swept Her like a breeze. The surrounding mill could’ve been an abandoned grave for all She cared. They were free, and most importantly, they were alive.


“Will we be here long?” Hylas spoke between gargantuan bites, wiping his wet hands down his tunic. “Should I start a fire?”


“Given the history of this establishment, a fire feels like testing our luck,” Raphael said, eyeing the rafters.


“Maybe we can plan our next move?” Hylas’s nervous energy was palpable, wafting from him in green wisps. “Script a plea for the Queen of Kovahr?”


“Maybe we can rest?” Raphael groused.


“Just . . .” Sighing, Leila massaged Her temples. “Do whatever you want. I don’t know. I’m so tired.”


“Raphael is right. We should rest.” Tobias rubbed Leila’s arms, eyeing Her up and down with a concerned gaze. “Eat. You must be starving.”


Leila’s empty stomach growled, and She chomped into Her apple without grace or dignity, devouring it as juice trickled down Her chin. Two days without sustenance were enough for Her to forget Her manners, and She wiped Her mouth with the back of Her hand. “I want to see Delphi.”


“Now?” Tobias started. “We don’t even know if⁠—”


“Please, Tobias,” Leila said. “Let Me do what I need to do.”


Tobias opened his mouth as if grappling for the right words, but he sighed instead. Perhaps he simply hadn’t the energy to argue. “I’ll keep watch until then.” He met Her gaze, and the fear it carried pained Her. “Be safe.”


She couldn’t bring Herself to respond, enfeebled by the look in his eyes. Instead, She squeezed his hand before turning away. Taking a deep breath, She closed Her eyes. The brothel materialized in Her mind, and She relaxed into the feeling, eager to channel the burn of Her light.


A strangled yelp sounded out, followed by the scuffling of feet. Leila opened Her eyes, met with Hylas’s wild gaze as a hooded man apprehended him from behind, pinning his arms to his side.


“Hylas!” Leila cried out, but madness had already descended upon them. Armed men in black leather snaked from the darkened corners of the mill like ghosts. Raphael was the next to collapse, and Tobias wielded his blade before it was wrenched from his hand, his arm twisted and pinned behind his back. He fought against his assailant while another man kicked at the back of his legs, dropping him to his knees. Leila pivoted, searching for a weak spot to exploit, but all She found were five heavily armed men circling Her, Her allies in their clutches. Curling Her hands into fists, She channeled Her light.


“Don’t You summon that dark cloud, young lady.” A sixth man appeared, cocking his head in Tobias’s direction. “Or my friends here will make quick work of ending Your betrothed.”


Tobias wrenched and writhed in his captives’ grasps, hatred alive in his gaze. The sixth man wasn’t formidable in size, but he carried himself with power, his glare pointed, his scarred arms casually folded across his chest. Leila reached for the sheath on Her thigh.


“Your weapon,” he said. “Drop it and kick it over.”


One of the other men had already gathered Tobias’s weapons in a pile, and he watched Leila, waiting for Her compliance. She hesitated, but when one of Tobias’s captors drew a blade to his throat, She tossed Her blade to the floor.


“I don’t know who you think⁠—”


“It was very brave of You, posing as a slave,” the sixth man, clearly the leader of the group, interrupted. “But that pallor of Yours gave You away. Besides, these two?” Scoffing, he gestured to Tobias and Raphael. “They’re no smugglers.”


“Fuck you, Mal,” Tobias spat.


“‘Fuck you,’ he says, with a dagger at his throat.” Mal let out a laugh.


Leila ground Her teeth. She’d thought She was free of those heinous smugglers. “This is a mistake you won’t survive.”


“You’re in no position to make threats.” Mal leaned against one of the rafters, picking at his teeth. “You know, I nearly thought I’d lost You in the crowd. But then You did that . . . trick. Whatever it was. I always wondered if Your magic was real or some horseshit shoveled by zealots. I’m pleased to have an answer.”


Leila nearly winced. He’d seen Her shadow walk. They’d been following Her the entire time. Why hadn’t She been more careful? Why didn’t She bless Her allies the moment they arrived? She resisted the urge to curse aloud. So many foolish mistakes had led to this moment, and She was grappling for solutions that hadn’t yet appeared.


“You can try to bring Me back to the sovereign, but before you even reach the shoreline, I will kill you,” She said. “And if by some miracle you complete your quest, My father will kill you himself.”


Mal snorted. “Oh, I have no intention of taking You to the sovereign. You’re coming with me to the Outlands.”


“Mal is the best witch hunter this side of the Thalassic sea,” one of his men added.


“I am no witch.”


“No, You’re The Savior, an invaluable find.” A devious smile spread across Mal’s lips. “With a prize like You, I’ll be the richest man in the ally realms and beyond.”


There had to be an out. She’d killed men before, certainly more than six, but never at once—never with no allies, no weapons, no magic. She steeled Herself, attempting to appear formidable. “I won’t go willingly.”


“That won’t be necessary. You’ll be dead.”


“Don’t you fucking touch Her!” Tobias spat, pulling against his captors.


“I’m afraid that’s unavoidable.” Mal eyed Leila up and down. “Where is it, anyway? Your tongue? Your heart? Magic always needs a vessel.”


Leila’s nerves spiked, and She swallowed hard. “My light only works if I’m living. Only I can wield it.”


“Outlanders have their ways.”


“There is no⁠—”


“They will pay for Your magic whether it’s fit for use or not,” Mal said.


Leila seethed, an ugly blend of anger and fear boiling in Her gut. Her eyes flitted between Tobias, Hylas, and Raphael, searching for an answer, but there was nothing. No salvation.


“So, now that we have an understanding⁠—”


“We do not have an understanding,” Leila hissed.


“It’s a simple transaction. Your magic in return for the freedom of those You love.” Mal pulled a dagger from his belt and pointed it Leila’s way. “Your move, Queen.”


Do something. But each option had played through Her mind a thousand times over, and they all resulted in Her allies’ deaths or Her own. Tobias stared at Her between his fallen curls, his gaze pleading. She knew what he wanted—to sacrifice his life for Her safety—but She couldn’t do that. There had to be something else.


“Nothing?” Mal said. “I suppose we have our answer.” He shouted over his shoulder, “Men!”


One of the smugglers at Tobias’s side pointed his blade to his neck, blood beading at its tip.


“It’s My skin!” Leila cried out.


The smugglers froze, and Mal smiled. “Thank You for Your sacrifice.” He nodded at someone behind Her, and a man yanked at Her hair, twisting it in his fist and pulling Her to Her knees. Tobias cursed and shouted from his spot on the ground, but his voice was muffled by Her heartbeat raging behind Her ears.


“I’m sure You already suspected, but for transparency’s sake, I have no intention of sparing Your companions,” Mal added, his words sharper than any knife. “But at least they’ll die knowing You cared.”


Do something. But Her thoughts had devolved into chaos, and Her laboring heart was threatening to burst. The man at Her side grabbed hold of Her arm and pinned it to the ground, pressing a blade to Her wrist, ready to separate flesh from bone.


A scream ripped through the mill. Hylas had bitten down on his captor’s forearm, blood pooling between his teeth as if he were a wild beast gnawing at his prey. The other smugglers were distracted by the scene, and Tobias took the opportunity to elbow one of the men at his side, pounding him hard in his nose.


This was it—Her moment. Gritting Her teeth, She summoned the full force of Her power.


Her body dissolved, weightless for a single breath before She reappeared beside the pile of weapons. Perfect. She ripped Her blade from the ground, eyes locking on Hylas.


“Duck!” She cried.


Hylas dropped to his knees, and She launched Her weapon, piercing the wounded smuggler in his chest.


Leila snatched Tobias’s sword from the pile and tossed it his way, and he plunged it into the man hovering over him. Mayhem enveloped the mill, and She threw Herself at whichever corner needed Her most. Raphael was struggling with his captor, and Leila shadow walked behind them, whipping the smuggler’s sword from its scabbard. As the man spun in Her direction, She slit him across the belly, sending his innards spilling into his grasp as his knees buckled beneath him.


Gasping breaths barely filled Leila’s lungs. Tobias was on top of a smuggler, pummeling his face with his bloodied fist. The man who had held Her down—who had intended to flay Her—was barreling Her way, a dagger wedged in each fist. Leila reached for Her sheath, then winced. Her blade was still stuck in a corpse somewhere, so She dipped and dodged, avoiding the smuggler’s assault. The second he stumbled, She shadow walked away, yanking Her weapon from the seeping body before reappearing at Her opponent’s side. The man wavered—an opportunity to exploit—and She hammered Her blade into the junction between his throat and shoulder, not stopping even as he fell to the ground.


Leila hopped upright. Five men were dead, and only one remained—Mal, teeth bared, rage alive in his narrow gaze. He charged toward Leila like an animal, but before She could react, he stopped short, frozen in place.


A sword was plunging straight through his gut, dripping with fresh blood.


Mal convulsed as the sword was wrenched free from his body. He was still for a moment, gazing down at the seeping wound before he slinked pitifully to the floor.


Raphael stood behind the fallen smuggler, eyes wide and hands still tight around the hilt of the weapon. The sword trembled in his grasp, and Leila’s heart broke for him.


His first kill. She’d hoped the day would never come.


“Thank you,” She said.


Raphael didn’t respond. Silence filled the space, save for the heaving of lungs, and Leila closed Her eyes, relishing their victory.


Then Enzo strode into the mill, a loaf of bread and satchel of goods in his arms. He stopped abruptly, eyeing the madness before him—his ragged allies in various states of recovery, and the six dead bodies littering the hay. Perplexed, he turned to Leila.


“How long I am gone?”



OceanofPDF.com

c452
    
  


  


Chapter 23

Tobias


Tobias strummed his fingers against his stomach as he stared up at the water-stained ceiling. The familiarity of the chamber around him had turned suffocating, a hand clasped to his throat and a body weighing down his chest. Perhaps he wouldn’t have minded seventeen days in an inn if the circumstances were different—if the small room with its singular bed were shared between him and Leila alone, an invitation to do whatever they pleased with one another. But it was the very last chamber the inn had to offer, and so for nearly three weeks, he’d been locked away with his beloved, and Raphael, and Hylas, and Enzo.


They’d reached the inn after traveling on foot through three different towns, venturing as far from the port as they could before sundown. Since then, each day blended with the last. They took turns sharing the bed while the unlucky ones were relegated to the floor. They took turns utilizing the limited water for bathing. And Raphael, Hylas, and Enzo took turns venturing into town, fetching food and hearing news from the heralds. But Tobias and Leila never stepped foot on the Trogolian roads, never saw the light of day beyond their window, as soldiers were searching for them.


And the soldiers were everywhere.


Raphael let out a throaty sigh from across the room. He sat in their lone wooden chair, his legs propped atop their wobbly table, and his boredom was all too relatable. At least he was able to leave the inn on a whim, but Tobias was trapped. He never imagined fleeing the palace would feel like imprisonment.


Leila wriggled at Tobias’s side. She was just as imprisoned as he was. Twice She’d shadow walked to the brothel to see Delphi, but She’d limited Herself to brief visits late in the night to avoid Isa’s critical eye. A part of him wondered if She was screaming inside just as he was, or if She was used to hiding. She had done so for the first twenty years of Her life.


The door flung open, and Hylas and Enzo made their way inside, a sack slung over Enzo’s shoulder. Tobias swung his legs over the edge of the bed and sat upright. God, let there be good news. They certainly needed it. But the moment he caught the bleak look in Hylas’s gaze, his hope dissolved.


“Soldiers?” Tobias said.


Hylas nodded. “Stationed across the entire coast of Lake Atabi, and more are on the way.”


“More?” Leila sat up. “They’re already monopolizing all coastal cities.”


“It seems scouring the border isn’t enough for Brontes,” Hylas said. “Which means⁠—”


“We have to head north before his soldiers do,” Tobias grumbled.


Raphael groaned, tipping his head back as he gazed helplessly at the ceiling. “How the hell are we supposed to do that when we can’t even leave this bloody chamber?”


“About that . . .” Hylas’s nervous gaze flitted to Enzo. “The soldiers have been ordered to conduct random searches.”


“Are you fucking serious?” Tobias said.


“They’ve already begun farther south and are making their way through the whole of the realm. It’s only a matter of time before they find us.”


“How is this happening?” Raphael flung his hands overhead, his frustration mounting. “Brontes knew we were headed this way before we even reached the shore.”


Hylas shrugged one shoulder. “Perhaps it was someone from the brothel—one of the courtesans, or a passing patron.”


“We didn’t tell anyone where we were headed.” Leila turned to Tobias. “Only Delphi and your family knew. They’d never betray us like this.”


“Someone had to have said something,” Tobias said. “He’s bringing all his manpower here. He wouldn’t do that unless he was certain.”


Raphael’s eyes shot wide. “Oh my God.” He sat still for a moment, then cradled his face in his palms. “Oh my fucking God.”


“What?” Tobias asked.


“In one of our meetings with Keene and Flynn.” Raphael dropped his hands and cringed. “I mentioned Trogolia. I said it should be our next stop.” He cursed under his breath. “This is my fault. I damned us all.”


“Stop it, Raph.” Leila made Her way to his side, resting a hand on his shoulder. “You couldn’t have possibly known.”


“I told Flynn, and Flynn went straight to Brontes. God, I’m so stupid.”


“This isn’t your fault,” Tobias said. “We came to the Joseons in good faith. You couldn’t have predicted Flynn would stray so far.”


Raphael didn’t respond, still muttering vulgarities under his breath. Leila massaged his shoulder, though Her gaze had gone vacant, Her eyes pointed at nothing in particular. The look chilled Tobias. Was She losing hope? That suffocating feeling took hold of him again, except it wasn’t because of their confinement—it was their worries that bogged him down. He’d promised Her an army. Hell, he’d promised Her safety at a bare minimum. Had he already failed Her?


“We need to leave,” he managed to utter.


“We need to leave now.” Raphael hopped up from his seat, visibly agitated as he paced the floor. “We’re pigs in a pen awaiting slaughter. And if I have to spend one more night in this godforsaken chamber⁠—”


“Enzo has a plan.” Hylas nudged Enzo’s shoulder. “Show them.”


A grin split Enzo’s face, and he pulled the sack from his shoulder and dumped its contents onto the floor. “Hapa!”


A mess sat at his feet—tins of paint and woven reed masks. Tobias plucked one mask from the others, the head of a mountain goat with a heavy brow and massive horns curved like nocked bows. Brick red paint covered its entirety, even the straps used to secure the mask at the base of the skull. Tobias turned to Enzo and frowned. “Is this supposed to be a disguise?”


Raphael’s eyes lit up. “Is that for⁠—?”


“The Festival of Pleasures.” Leila mirrored his expression and spun toward Hylas. “Is it tonight?”


“It’s in three days’ time.”


“Shit.” Raphael ran a hand over his hair. “That’s too far off.”


“Would someone mind telling me what’s going on?” Tobias said.


“The Festival of Pleasures,” Raphael maintained. “It’s a Trogolian tradition marking the end of summer and the start of autumn.”


Tobias started. “It’s autumn already?”


“Nearly so,” Hylas said.


“The custom was intended to honor their old gods, but these days it’s mostly an excuse for blameless debauchery,” Raphael added.


“They celebrate with masks and hedonism. It’s all very uncivilized.” Leila flicked a dismissive wrist.


“Precisely. Everyone will be disguised.” Hope beamed in Hylas’s eyes. “Which means⁠—”


“We can travel through the city, and no one will notice us,” Tobias said.


“No more than anyone else, at least.”


“It is good idea, yes?” Enzo stood tall, visibly pleased with himself.


Tobias didn’t respond, still turning over the idea. A foreign celebration in a foreign land—it was their most promising solution, but the uncertainty gnawed at him. Leila must’ve felt the same, as She’d remained mostly silent through the discussion, Her gaze unreadable. How was it that the closer they neared their salvation, the farther away it became?


“The march will begin at nightfall before the festival’s dawn,” Hylas continued. “Everyone takes to the streets to drink and⁠—”


“Fuck.” Enzo’s grin widened.


Hylas’s cheeks reddened. “And indulge in excess. I imagine there’ll be a great deal of destruction.”


“Soldiers will be much busy,” Enzo added.


“But they will still be on guard and large in numbers. It’s a risk, surely, but I’m struggling to see any alternatives.”


Something sour pulled in Tobias’s belly. He eyed the mask in his grasp, a single eyebrow raised. “A goat?”


“The god of death and decay,” Raphael said. “They used to worship him as autumn came and the plants began to die.”


“What a sweet story.”


“So, we’re in agreement?” Hylas glanced among the group, searching their gazes. “This is when we make our escape?”


Tobias’s unease didn’t lift, but he kept his carriage strong, forcing his troubled thoughts aside. Leila stood completely still, no doubt warring inside just as he was. When She met his gaze, She offered him a silent nod. He turned to the others.


“In three days, we head north.”





Tobias was the only member of their traveling party ignorant to Trogolian customs, but the others were quick to make him acquainted with the perversions to come. Three days of waiting meant three days to study the Festival of Pleasures and plan their escape, which seemed to be little more than a haphazard dance in the dark amid lechers and drunks.


Chaos will be our cover. He repeated the sentiment in his thoughts, praying it would ease his nerves. They’d be five faceless figures in a sea of thousands. Who could possibly tell them apart from anyone else?


An explosion sounded, and twinkling lights erupted outside their window. Tobias couldn’t help but flinch. Fireworks weren’t unheard of in Thessen, but he’d never been so close to them. Surely this wasn’t safe, though based on the other theatrics of the evening, safety wasn’t a high priority. The hallway was filled with patrons singing, dancing, and screaming, as they had been for the past several hours. Night had only just fallen, and with the blackness came swarms of people eager to celebrate. Tobias didn’t need to peer out his window to know the streets were packed.


A fist pounded against their door, rattling its hinges. “I know you’re in there, Donya!” a man slurred. “I know you’re with my brother!” The drunken fool had been calling for his wife for some time. Perhaps she was in a chamber nearby, but Tobias hadn’t a clue. All he could do was sit and wait for their escape.


The pounding continued, and Leila rolled Her eyes. “Night has fallen. Can’t we leave now?”


“Not yet.” Raphael sat in front of a mirror applying white paint around his eyes and mouth—to represent a spirit, apparently, though Tobias didn’t see the likeness. “We need to wait for the proper hour—once the celebration and drunkenness are at their peak.”


“They sound plenty drunk already.” Leila cocked Her head toward their still quaking door.


“This attempt is very precarious. You haven’t left this room, you haven’t seen . . .” Raphael stopped himself, maintaining composure. “There are soldiers everywhere. Festivities or none, we need to be very, very careful. Timing is of the utmost importance.”


“Donya! You cheating bitch!” the drunk man howled, and Raphael tipped his head back and groaned. Without a word, Enzo swung open the door and disappeared into the hallway. A loud slam echoed off the wall, followed by a series of crashes and muffled cries. The corridor fell silent, and Enzo stepped back inside their chamber, locking the door behind him.


“He is quiet now,” he said.


“Will we have enough time?” Leila dared a glance out the window, tugging Her cloak tight across Her chest. “The festival only lasts through the night. We need to make haste.”


“All we need is enough time to find a phallion,” Raphael said.


Tobias wrinkled his nose. “Phallion?”


“It’s a caravan of festival goers. A celebration on horseback, so to speak.” Raphael paced the room, hands clasped behind his back. “They travel all night through Trogolia, collecting revelers along the way. If we find one headed north, we can easily blend in among their numbers.”


“What are the odds one of these phallions passes through this city?” Tobias asked.


Raphael snorted. “You underestimate the dedication of these people. We’ll find a phallion. The question is whether it can bring us closer to Kovahr.”


Porcelain shattered somewhere in the hallway. Leila and the others glanced among one another.


“They’re breaking the plates,” Hylas said.


“It’s nearly time,” Raphael agreed.


Breaking plates? Tobias rubbed his temples. “This holiday makes no sense.”


People cheered from beyond the inn, and a wave of music—lutes, harps, and panduras—turned the upheaval into something melodic and joyful.


The real celebration had begun.


“All right.” Raphael slung his cloak over his shoulders and threw his hood overhead. “Are we ready?”


Hylas nodded enthusiastically. He wore the same face paint as Raphael, his fingertips still white from applying it. Enzo’s fur trimmed mantle was already fastened, and he settled his mask—a boar head the same brick red color as Tobias’s goat, while Leila’s mask was a yellow crescent moon. With a deep breath, Tobias clasped his cloak at his neck and pulled his mask overhead. The reeds itched his chin and tickled his nose, and though his vision was slightly obscured, he could still make out his comrades, and that was enough for him.


“Memorize these faces,” Raphael said. “There will be many masks in the crowd—duplicates, even. We can’t lose track of one another.”


Tobias nodded, ignoring the dread turning in his stomach. The group gathered their supplies and satchels, and without further delay, they left their chamber.


Wine and stomach contents painted the corridor walls, and shattered porcelain littered the floor. People meandered through the space on unsteady legs, paint dripping from their sweaty faces and masks askew on their heads. Raphael led the way, weaving past a group of women singing off-key, two quarreling men throwing sloppy punches, and another woman slouched against the wall, drool dribbling from her lips. Tobias stepped over a man sprawled across the floor—Donya’s husband, he assumed—then shouldered past other merrymakers, increasingly annoyed with each poke and jab. The exit was in sight, and he held his breath, bracing himself for whatever was to come.


They poured from the inn, staggering across the road before gaining their bearings. Far too many Trogolians roamed the streets, their faces painted or masked, chalices and torches in hand. Blazing bonfires and structure fires lit the town orange, casting ominous shadows across the shopfronts and passersby. Tobias had known to expect chaos, but nothing could’ve prepared him for the sheer number of people running, swaying, dancing through the night, and especially the crested helmets strewn throughout.


His stomach clenched. There truly were soldiers everywhere, either in Thessian garb or grey Trogolian plates. A soldier turned his way, and though Tobias was masked, his face burned beneath the piercing gaze.


A passerby shoved a chalice into Tobias’s hands, sending him teetering backward. The merrymaker was gone before he could react, and when he eyed the path ahead, the soldier was gone as well. Tobias looked to Leila, but all he could make out were Her amber eyes peering through Her crescent moon mask.


Raphael and Hylas took the lead through the crowd with Enzo following close behind. Wrapping Leila’s hand in his, Tobias tossed the chalice aside and joined the others.


They wove through throngs of people, mesmerized by the surrounding mayhem. Bards stood atop a stage made of barrels and wooden planks, plucking lutes, slapping at drums, and singing high above the noise. Between the torches and fires, the air was thick with heat, and sweat dripped between Tobias’s shoulder blades. Two people fucked vigorously in an alleyway without discretion, and a horde of men dashed from a shop carrying armfuls of goods. Looters. Raphael had mentioned those, but Tobias hadn’t taken it seriously. Smoke rose into the skyline, perhaps from more meaningless acts of destruction, and three men and a woman juggled knives as passersby tossed coin at their feet.


Soldiers cut the path in front of them, and Tobias tightened his grip on Leila’s hand. They jostled celebrators, removing their masks and spouting orders Tobias couldn’t hear, and his roused nerves vibrated beneath his flesh.


Flames burst in front of Tobias. Fire breathers wearing scant rags swaggered through the street, their breasts exposed save for strategically placed ribbons. The soldiers were distracted by the display, and Tobias used it to his advantage, hurrying in the opposite direction with the rest of his companions.


We can’t lose track of one another. Raphael’s words echoed in Tobias’s mind, a lifeline he clung to. The celebration around him was unruly and aggravating, but he had navigated far worse conditions. A little drunken tomfoolery was certainly manageable.


“Mother Moon!”


Leila tore free from Tobias’s grasp. Three men barely of age circled Her, taking turns spinning Her in dizzying circles. She teetered across the road, nearly falling before one of the men scooped Her up.


“Dance with me, Mother Moon!” he slurred, dipping Her low to the ground. He lurched Her upright, sending Her mask askew, then passed Her to one of his friends.


Tobias barreled into their circle, snatching Leila’s hand wordlessly and pulling Her away.


“Come on, we only want to dance⁠—”


Tobias punched the man in the nose, toppling him to the ground. Leila gave his palm a squeeze as they hurried back to the group, where Raphael was waiting, his lips pursed.


“We need to remain inconspicuous⁠—”


“There are naked people in the streets and shops being looted,” Tobias said. “I think we’re blending in just fine.”


Enzo let out a laugh muffled by his mask, then stopped short. Hylas grabbed the front of his mantle and pointed ahead. “Look!”


The crowd parted as horse-drawn carriages passed through the town’s center. The costumed travelers carried painted banners depicting a language Tobias couldn’t comprehend. Didn’t Trogolians speak the common tongue? Perhaps it was a dialect from centuries past. The carriages were decorated with orange and gold ribbons tied into bows resembling floral bouquets, and the horses themselves were adorned with headpieces shaped into skulls or horns, their manes and tails laced with ribbons.


This was a phallion. It had to be.


The group ran toward the caravan, and Raphael flagged down one of the carriages.


“Travelers!” He held onto the side of the cart, matching its pace. “Travelers, may your pleasures and merriment be divine. Where are you headed?”


A man with a thick mustache puffed at a pipe, looking down at Raphael but otherwise ignoring his question. His passenger, a woman with rolling blonde locks, giggled before tapping the tip of Raphael’s nose.


“Silly boy,” she cooed. “Spirits can’t speak.”


“We aim to celebrate in Derbston, or even farther north,” Hylas added. “Is that where your phallion intends to ride?”


The woman’s laughter rose, and she wagged her finger as she tutted her tongue. “Naughty spirit. No speaking allowed.”


Tobias growled. He turned to another member of the phallion, one on foot—a tall woman with cropped brown hair draped in garlands. “Excuse me,” he said. “Are you headed north?”


The woman eyed him up and down with a hungry gaze. She unwrapped one of the garlands from her crown and draped it over his shoulders. “For a god such as yourself, I will place my head wherever you please.”


Leila groaned at his side and dragged him farther down the line. “Where are you headed?” She shouted, abandoning all pretense. Many ignored Her while a few spewed nonsense about Mother Moon, but She continued. “Where are you going? Answer Me!”


“To Shyre.” Hylas staggered to Tobias’s side. “They’re headed to Shyre.”


“Dammit,” Raphael spat.


Tobias glanced between them. “Is Shyre in the north?”


“The east,” Raphael said.


Tobias cursed aloud. Drunken tomfoolery had been a considerable understatement. The festival was too much—the noise, the people, the constant jostling. He flinched as fireworks exploded overhead, then again as a line of people passed carrying torches not unlike those from the labyrinth. Everything within him became tight and constricted—even his grip, apparently, as Leila pulled Herself free of him and stretched Her fingers. He offered Her a muffled “Sorry,” and She nodded before placing Her hand back in his.


The phallion expanded as new revelers joined their numbers, throbbing like a beating heart. A cart boasting acrobats and contortionists passed, and onlookers swarmed the carriage, marveling over the display. Tobias growled as yet another person plowed into his shoulder. He’d had enough of the festival. As he and the others abandoned the phallion, a group of people painted as spirits surrounded Hylas, whisking him off as they frolicked away.


“Hylas!” Leila called out.


She reached for him, but Tobias pulled Her into his arms. Resolute, She wriggled free, still searching for Hylas, only to be swept up by three women dressed entirely in flower petals. Tobias lunged for Her, calling Her name, but another festival goer linked arms with his and spun him in a circle, thrusting him into a line of idiots dancing in the middle of the street.


Tobias shoved his dancing partners aside and tore through the crowd, heedless to their gasps and cries. “Leila?” His heartbeat fired off. “Leila!”


“What the hell are you doing?” Raphael hissed, grabbing Tobias by the cloak.


“Leila and Hylas,” Tobias said. “They’re missing.”


“I’ve gathered that, but for fuck’s sake, don’t scream Her name.”


“I go find,” Enzo said, weaving into the commotion.


“Enzo, no!” Tobias shouted, but it was too late. He’d already disappeared, yet another boar amid the sea of masks. Raphael dragged Tobias to a less congested corner of the street while Tobias cursed aloud, his frustration mounting. “We were supposed to stick together.”


“We’ll find them,” Raphael said.


“How?”


“Oh, hell, I don’t know. Just pull yourself together!”


“Random inspection.”


A red crest appeared in Tobias’s peripheral vision, and his stomach dropped.


“I said, random inspection.”


The soldier waltzed into Tobias’s line of sight, and he couldn’t help but sigh. How had everything gone so wrong, so quickly?


Raphael forced out an unconvincing laugh. “Come on, it’s a holiday.”


“This isn’t my realm, and this isn’t my holiday.” The soldier’s eyes locked onto Tobias. “Remove your mask. I won’t say it again.”


Tobias set his jaw, turning to stone beneath the soldier’s gaze. Despite his screaming impulses, he pulled the mask free and held it at his side. “What now? Are we free to go?”


The soldier eyed him up and down, the path of his gaze a soldering iron. The man couldn’t know who he was. There was no way. Tobias held his breath and waited.


“Just a few questions,” the soldier said.


“There are a million people on these streets at this very moment.” Raphael gestured wildly at the madness around them. “Why us?”


“King’s orders.”


“The king ordered you to stop me and my friend on this most sacred day?” Raphael crossed his arms. “Sounds like fuckery to me.”


“We’re looking for a man with brown hair, bronze Thessian skin, and a woman at his side.” As the soldier spoke, his condemning gaze was set on Tobias. “You seem to fit most of this description.”


Tobias’s muscles went rigid. “So do many men in this realm. Brown hair, bronze skin. Might as well add two eyes and a nose to that list. It could be anyone.”


“Do I look like a woman to you?” Raphael added.


The soldier’s lips perked into a sneer. “No one has resisted quite like the two of you.”


His sneer burned Tobias, a branding against his flesh. He snatched up Tobias’s satchel and rummaged through it while Tobias resisted the urge boiling in his belly, calling for bloodshed. The soldier looked back at him, eyes narrowing into a glare.


“Come with me.”


Raphael charged forward and kicked the soldier square in the ass, sending him plowing into Tobias before toppling face first to the ground.


Tobias spun toward Raphael. “What are you doing?”


“I don’t know! I panicked!”


Raphael’s eyes were wide with surprise, as if he himself couldn’t believe his own actions. As the soldier scrambled to his hands and knees, Tobias slammed his heel into his chin, collapsing him once again.


Clapping broke through the noise. A handful of spectators had congregated, but most merrymakers ambled by, oblivious or desensitized to the violence. This is madness. Something about the chaos became familiar—the bloodlust, the banners, the numbness. Sunshine bled through the darkened night, and the surrounding shops turned into the walls of the palace arena.


The soldier sprang toward Tobias, lips bloodied and snarling, and he too became someone from a memory—Kaleo, or Flynn, or perhaps a fusion of the two. Tobias dodged his assaults while his small audience cheered, then knocked the soldier off center, locking his arms around his throat. The soldier floundered in his grasp, but Tobias tightened his grip as Enzo had taught him, until a hard snap sounded, sending the soldier loose in his arms.


Applause lurched him back to his reality. Fuck. He pulled his mask back on, though it didn’t do him much good. People had watched him kill a man, and one of them grinned before slurring “Fuck Thessen!” Even more revelers strolled by, ignoring him entirely. Perhaps they were too inebriated to care, or combat was simply too common a festival activity. Either way, Tobias was sorely on display. He shuffled to Raphael’s side and spoke out of the corner of his mouth, “What do we do?”


“We need to get out of here.” With a grunt, Raphael flung the fallen soldier’s arm around his shoulder. “Help me.”


Tobias did as he was instructed, and the two men stood upright, carrying the corpse between them. Raphael shot through the crowd, forcing Tobias to do the same, and all the while the dead man hung heavily at his side, his head low and helmet pointed to the ground.


Tobias nervously scanned the passersby. “What are we doing?”


“We’re escorting a drunken soldier through the Festival of Pleasures,” Raphael said.


“We’re what?”


“He’s drunk. So drunk he’s fallen unconscious, but fortunately two good citizens are bringing him to safety.” Raphael looked him hard in the eye. “Do you understand?”


Tobias nodded, tottering as he struggled for balance. This isn’t going to work. But he charged ahead despite his frenzied nerves. A woman strolled up to them, and though he braced himself for battle, she yanked the soldier’s helmet free and planted it on her own head, screaming obscenities into the night as she skipped away. Soldiers of Thessian and Trogolian blood alike crossed their path, and none of them seemed put off by his presence, some rolling their eyes or shaking their heads at their drunken comrade. Tobias straightened, emboldened by their apathy. If the corpse provided him cover, he’d use it to his advantage. He had to find Leila.


Crescent moons hung from altars and adorned dresses, tunics, and hats. People wore crescent moon masks and rode horses with crescent moons painted into their hair. Hell, there were crescent moons everywhere. He’d known to expect duplicates, but only then was it so glaring. How were they going to find Her?


“Tobias!”


Tobias spun toward the voice only to find Hylas barreling his way. The senator’s eyes were wide and bloodshot, his skin almost grey, as if he’d endured hell in their short separation.


“Where’s Leila?” Tobias said.


Hylas sighed. “I don’t know. I lost Her.” He studied the soldier hanging between them. “Is this man dead?”


“Fuck,” Tobias barked, nearly dropping the corpse. Raphael groaned at his side, and they opted to abandon their cumbersome cover, slumping the fallen soldier atop a bench beside a hopefully sleeping reveler. Tobias raked his hands through his hair, his veins filled with fire. Find Leila. His body was overwrought, but his thoughts were singular and commanding. He tore through the crowd calling Her name, discretion be damned. He couldn’t fail Her. He wouldn’t.


Raphael grabbed him by the shoulder and spun him around. “Tobias⁠—”


“We have to find Her,” Tobias said, shoving past the masses. “I don’t care what it takes.”


“Tobias, look.”


A series of decorated carriages paraded through the distance—another phallion, their beacon of light. Raphael and Hylas headed its way, but Tobias didn’t move, studying the crowd. He spied acrobats and dancers, sword swallowers and lushes, lovers fucking in the street and looters marveling over their spoils, and a single soldier hassling a woman in a crescent moon mask.


Tobias’s lungs froze. She had small white hands and deep brown hair tucked into Her cloak.


Leila. It had to be Her.


Tobias plowed through the people, his body a battering ram. Leila held Her blade in Her palm, swiping and jabbing at the soldier to no avail. The mask must’ve been hindering Her. Festival goers ambled in front of him, blocking Tobias’s path, and he paid no mind as he pushed them aside, eyes locked on his love. The soldier grabbed the front of Her cloak and tugged Her closer, and when She fumbled Her blade, Tobias couldn’t fight the roar that bellowed from his throat.


A man in a reddish boar mask stepped into view, wresting the helmet from the soldier’s head and slapping it across his face.


The soldier dropped to the ground, limp at the boar’s feet. Tobias reached Leila’s side just as Enzo removed his mask, wiping his sweaty forehead before looking Tobias’s way. “I told you, I find.”


“Tobias!” Hylas ran toward him. “Tobias, they’re headed north.”


Tobias looked over his shoulder. Raphael was walking alongside the latest phallion, beckoning them his way. Finally, an escape. Leila wriggled Her hand into Tobias’s, and they headed for the caravan with Enzo and Hylas, praying for refuge in the north.



OceanofPDF.com

c4B4
    
  


  


Chapter 24

Leila


Leila dragged Her feet across the dusty road, willing Herself to take yet another step forward. Perhaps She could’ve asked to ride one of the carriages in their phallion, but the idea of looming high over the others, fully on display, kept Her low to the ground. Besides, they were nearly there already. She could tell, because with each passing hour the air grew cooler, chilled by the approaching winds of the north. Regardless, the sun was peeking over the horizon—a sight that would’ve struck Her with fear had it not been for the mask still secure on Her face. Wherever they were, the phallion had to stop eventually.


As the night faded, so too did the Festival of Pleasures. A few celebrators still danced in the streets, albeit slowly, weighed down by their lethargy. A lone singer from within their phallion belted out off-key tunes, but no instruments accompanied them, nor did anyone clap along. Torn ribbons littered the path ahead, and more than a few shopfronts were busted open, their contents scattered along the street in puddles of booze and blood. A few people lay across benches and even the dirtied ground, limp amid their own waste. Leila hadn’t the energy to wonder if they were dead or merely unconscious. All She could think about was placing one foot in front of the other.


Tobias strode at Her side, a steadfast comfort despite the demonic nature of his mask. The rest of their traveling party had become less concealed as the night progressed. Enzo’s mask rested atop his head like a boarish hat, and both Raphael’s and Hylas’s face paint had been reduced to smears through the sweat of travel. The others in their phallion were in similar states—flower crowns ripped and wilting, lips wine-stained and crusted, eyes heavy with exhaustion. They’d have to find shelter sooner rather than later, and for once, Leila would be grateful to be stuck in a Trogolian inn.


“We should seek refuge soon,” Raphael croaked, his voice hoarse from a night of shouting. “Before . . .”


He didn’t need to finish his sentence. Before the drunkards sobered and questioned their new travelers. Before the soldiers were no longer distracted. Before Leila’s glow became too much to conceal.


Enzo grunted in approval, then abandoned the phallion. “I find inn.”


“More than one room,” Tobias called out.


“Yes.” Raphael groaned. “Please, for the love of God.”


Tobias took Leila’s hand in his, warming Her from Her fingertips all the way to Her toes. Respite. She hadn’t a clue if they were near to the Kovahrian border or miles away, but they had survived the night and were that much closer to their destination. That was a victory in itself.


“We did it,” Tobias said under his breath. “Kovahr is just⁠—”


“A two days’ journey away,” Raphael added. “Maybe less.”


Hylas kept quiet, glassy eyes trained ahead, his sleep deprivation not so easily hidden. Leila could relate. She hadn’t spoken a word in hours, Her voice weary. Soon, She’d be able to relax, to breathe. Enzo would return with news of their lodging, and She could eat, bathe, and wrap Herself in the arms of Her beloved.


Voices dinned in the distance, louder with the growing chill. Shouting. Booing. Tobias’s grip tightened, his fingers digging into Hers as they had the night before, and Leila was starkly aware of the veins bulging from his forearm. The phallion around them slowed, then stopped entirely. Many celebrators sat hunched in their wagons barely conscious while others swayed along the ground, numb to the change in conditions. Raphael and Hylas quickly strode toward the front of the caravan, and Leila and Tobias followed.


They reached a town center not unlike the one they’d left the night prior. A part of Leila was relieved to see it—Her realm wasn’t the only one so uniform and plain, and Trogolia was no doubt plainer with its unending grey. But as they wove between the bodies, flashes of red appeared in the distance.


So many soldiers.


They stood in an X formation in the center of the square, strong and steady as the masses heckled them. Rotten fruit and vegetables were tossed their way, though they didn’t flinch. Their stoicism—and numbers—chilled Leila more than the northern air ever could. She tucked Herself against Tobias.


“Citizens of Trogolia.” A single Thessian soldier stepped forward, taking root at the dais. “We stand here per the order of your righteous and moral king, a trusted ally to His Majesty, our sovereign.”


His Majesty? Leila nearly started. Her father had advanced his title already, as if She were dead and buried, a long-lost memory.


“Thanks to the significant efforts of a father in turmoil and the heroic account of Flynn Joseon, we are now most assured that The Savior and Her captor are here within the great realm of Trogolia,” the soldier continued.


Booing erupted within the square, and more rotten produce was tossed his way. The man didn’t falter, didn’t flinch. Leila envied his calm, as Her insides were a twisted contradiction—clenched but wavering, firm but unsteady, a mess of taut anxiety and rampant anger.


“We have no aim to disrupt your home, nor a desire to worry your minds,” the soldier spoke over the voices. “All we want is to find our beloved Savior and free Her from bondage. And with the assistance of your trusted guard, we are taking all necessary steps to ensure Her safe return.”


The Trogolian guards were scattered throughout the square, limp and apathetic, as if they were keen to have their titles overtaken. Perhaps they didn’t mind the clear seizure of power. Perhaps they didn’t care any which way at all. Something about that disturbed Leila, and the relief that had nearly settled into Her bones quickly morphed into despair.


“For the foreseeable future, you will notice our presence,” the soldier said. “You will see our crests as often as the changing sun. But we only have one purpose in your homeland.”


Leila swallowed a scream. They were so close. They’d risked so much, had traveled all night. How is any of this fair? She gnawed at Her bottom lip, thanking whatever God loomed above for the discretion of Her mask.


“Until The Savior and the wretched Artist are found, the Trogolian borders will be closed for passage.” The soldier raised his chin. “No one may enter this realm, and no one may leave.”


One step in front of the other—except it wasn’t enough. It never would be.



OceanofPDF.com

c4CA
    
  


  


Chapter 25

Tobias


The silence was stifling. Tobias, Leila, Enzo, and Raphael sat in one of their two rooms in a new inn slightly more comfortable than the last. The wooden chair creaked beneath Enzo’s shifting weight while Raphael bobbed his knee, no doubt counting the passing seconds. Leila’s brow was furrowed, the churning of Her thoughts explicit. But Tobias was calm.


He’d been thinking about this moment since the morning before, when they’d first learned of their locked-in state. It had kept him awake that night, his eyes boring holes into the ceiling, his mind turning over each misstep, every consequence and solution. Hours later, there was nothing left but ease. He understood his circumstances. He accepted them.


The lock clanked, and Hylas entered the room, promptly shutting the door behind him. Raphael and the others bolted upright. “So?”


Hylas frowned. “No change at the borders.”


Leila and Raphael cursed under their breath while Enzo grumbled something in Kovahrian. Still, Hylas lingered by the doorway, his gaze cast toward the floor.


Leila raised a knowing eyebrow. “What else?” When Hylas shied away from Her gaze, She glowered. “What else, Hylas.”


He sighed. “They’re to begin random searches and seizures next week. Maybe sooner.”


The news was lost on Tobias. He’d expected this outcome, or at the very least something similar in its horrendousness. They’d been dodging their fate for months, and the length of time they’d evaded it was truly admirable. But they’d run out of quick fixes and good fortune. There was no denying that any longer.


“We’re fucked.” Raphael hopped up from his seat and paced the wooden floor. “We’re absolutely fucked.”


“There must be a solution.” Hylas joined the others, pulling up his own chair and slinging his charcoal cloak across its back. “We’ve avoided capture thus far.”


“There isn’t a solution,” Raphael spat. “Don’t you understand? We’re stuck here waiting for death. This room might as well be a dungeon.”


“Stop it, Raph.” Leila’s voice was firm, but Her gaze was frenzied. “We just need to focus. We came to Trogolia for a reason.”


“We chose Trogolia as our passage to Kovahr for their lax borders.” Raphael swung his hands wildly as he spoke. “Now, they have the most stringent borders in all the ally realms.”


Enzo pounded his fist into his open palm. “I kill soldiers with bare hands.”


“Yes, we’ll just kill all the soldiers and kill all the civilians and kill kill kill until we kill our way to Kovahr.” Exhaling, Raphael collapsed into his chair and kneaded his temples. “I need a drink. Do we have beer? Or maybe something stronger?”


Leila stood, Her chin resting on Her fist, and the fear in Her eyes broke Tobias. It was disguised as deep concentration, a stern regality that often masked Her real feelings, but the slight tremble in Her hands betrayed Her. She was terrified, just as he had been the day prior. He wasn’t anymore, and he knew exactly what they needed to do.


She was going to hate him for it.


Sighing, Leila shook Her head. “This is My fault.”


“Your fault?” Confusion plastered Enzo’s face, his heavy brow knitted. “I do not know this.”


“I’m the one who lights up like a lantern,” She said. “I’m the one⁠—”


“With unmistakable shadow magic,” Raphael added.


Leila frowned. “Thank you, Raph.” It was Her turn to pace the floor, Her fear working its way to the surface. “If I weren’t so conspicuous, we could’ve traveled with ease. But I’ve got this damned skin and this damned magic⁠—”


“Eh, Raphael told Flynn.” Enzo pointed Raphael’s way. “It is his mistake, yes?”


“It doesn’t matter who’s at fault,” Hylas said. “What matters is what we do next.”


Leila ignored him, lost in Her pacing. “It can’t end like this. It just can’t.” Her eyes were on the path ahead of Her, Her words more for Herself than anyone else. “Kovahr is right there, within grasp. We need their numbers. We need an army. We need⁠—”


“A decoy,” Tobias finally spoke.


“Precisely.” Leila stopped in Her tracks. “Wait, what?”


“Brontes needs a reason to believe The Savior isn’t here in Trogolia,” Tobias said. “A definitive reason. He’d withdraw his troops, send them to wherever he assumes She might reside, and thus She’d have the freedom to move with ease.”


“Naturally,” Raphael scoffed. “But that ship has long since sailed.”


“Has it?” Tobias glanced among his allies. “Just one effective decoy, and that’s it. The borders are open, and Leila can secure Her army.”


Leila grabbed the back of Her chair, leaning against it as She looked at Tobias. “What exactly are you getting at?”


“Brontes believes we’re here in Trogolia. Flynn has led him to this point. But he doesn’t have any proof. Nothing of the sort.” The words spilled out of Tobias with an ease he hadn’t expected, as numbness took hold of him. “If we gave him inarguable evidence to the contrary, he would uproot his men in an instant and send all his troops in the opposite direction.”


Leila pursed Her lips. “Tobias. Out with it.”


Her expression had turned forbidding, but he wasn’t deterred. “We need bait in the south. That will point him toward Ethyua, far enough from Trogolia to grant You passage to Kovahr.”


“We don’t have bait,” Raphael said.


“We do. We’ve had it all along.”


Silence swept the chamber once again, but Leila didn’t once break their gaze. She knew what he was going to say. Her narrowed eyes had become an unspoken command, but She couldn’t sway him. He’d made up his mind.


“It has to be me,” Tobias said. “I’m the bait.”


His allies remained quiet, but their faces spoke for them, loud and emphatic. Hylas’s eyes shot wide, Enzo gaped blankly, and even Raphael looked befuddled. But it was Leila who stole Tobias’s focus—Leila, who hadn’t moved, hadn’t so much as blinked, yet the air around Her had darkened. An eternity passed before She spoke, and Her tone came out venomous.


“You can’t be serious.”


“I can shadow walk to the Krios Woods, as close to the Ethyuan border as I’m able,” Tobias said. “I will make myself known, and I will⁠—”


“Die? That’s your genius plan?”


Tobias’s stomach clenched. Her voice was the edge of a knife. He hadn’t seen this version of Her in some time.


“He won’t kill me.”


Leila let out a derisive laugh. “I know My father better than you do, and he’s killed far greater threats with less cause.”


“I am his key to finding You. He needs me.” Tobias spoke with gentle, placating intention. “He will keep me alive as long as he believes there’s a chance I’ll speak.”


“Perhaps there are other avenues to explore.” Hylas cleared his throat, desperate to end the tension. “Brontes must assume the two of you aren’t traveling alone.”


“You’d have me sacrifice my mother and sister?” Tobias said. “Brontes believes the four of us are together. I’m unwilling to let any of them be marred by his hand.”


Hylas was quiet for a long while. “I could go.” He sat tall, though his eyes revealed his terror. “I’ve experienced his wrath and survived.”


Tobias rested a comforting hand on the man’s shoulder. “With all due respect, I doubt he knows you’ve joined our trek. You’re useless to him, and he will end you in an instant.”


“Well, this has been a hilarious display of stupidity, but if anyone has a real, actionable plan, I’d be glad to hear it,” Leila scoffed. She turned on Her heel, resuming Her pacing, and Tobias sighed.


“Leila—”


“I like it.” Enzo shrugged. “Tobias is bait. It is good.”


“For fuck’s sake, Enzo, read the room,” Raphael muttered.


“Tobias will not be bait.” Leila pointed a sharp finger Tobias’s way. “As your Savior, that is my will.”


“And as Your promised, my will is my own,” Tobias said.


“You are unbelievable.”


“Brontes needs a reason to leave Trogolia. He needs a win—a captor he can announce to the masses and claim as victory.” Tobias followed Her path with his gaze, and something within him splintered when Her breathing quickened. “No one else can take that place. No one else⁠—”


“Literally anyone else,” She spat. “Anyone can be bait.”


“His objective is You. You are all he wants. And I am Your closest ally.” He set his jaw. “If he has me⁠—”


“He won’t have you,” She said. “He won’t.”


“It’ll be temporary.”


“Your life will be temporary.”


“He won’t kill me, Leila,” Tobias maintained. “I know You know this.”


“Fine.” Leila stopped short and crossed Her arms. “Then he’ll torture you instead. Is that what you want? Or are you really so naive as to believe yourself untouchable?”


The ire in Her voice was palpable. He knew this was coming—Her razor-sharp words and hands shaking at Her sides. She was fighting to barricade Herself, to wear Her fury like armor, but he saw what lay beneath it—the helplessness he’d caused Her. The hurt.


“It’s a risk I’m willing to take.”


Leila’s lips parted, disbelief washing over Her face. “You’re fucking mad.”


“It is good idea.” Enzo casually bit into a plum. “Tobias is perfect distraction⁠—”


“Tobias is My promised, I will not lead him to slaughter!” Leila’s voice came out in a roar. Tobias nearly flinched, but he kept himself still, refusing to bend or sway. He didn’t need to see Her colors, as She emanated a fiery kind of pain, Her gaze alone rancorous. She flourished the ribbon on Her wrist. “Or is this just a joke to you?”


Her words pierced something soft within him, and he stood. “You know that isn’t so.”


“United as one.” Her carriage was strong, but Her lip wobbled. “Yet you stray from My side—martyr yourself without care for the consequence.”


“Darling—”


“Don’t call Me that!”


Raphael rose from his seat, approaching Her as if She were a wild animal. “Leila⁠—”


“You know what?” She shook Her head. “It doesn’t matter, this plan of yours. I forbid it. This is My life and My army, and you’ll do as I say.”


Tobias’s heart lurched, but he didn’t give in to its plea. He’d gone over their circumstances a thousand times over, and no other path ended with Leila alive. Sacrificing himself was their only move.


She knew it too. That’s what wounded Her so.


“I’m leaving, Leila. With or without Your consent.”


“You’re not going anywhere! Do you hear Me?” She spun toward the others, red-faced and feral. “Have you nothing to say? How can you sit back and listen to this?”


Hylas’s dark gaze flitted between the quarreling lovers. “Leila, I think⁠—”


“I refuse,” She hissed. “I will not hear another word from your lips. I will not indulge this idiocy a moment longer.”


Something akin to disgust overtook Her gaze. Tobias didn’t take offense, didn’t feel much of anything but a deep, probing guilt. The thickening of Her voice revealed Her weakness, and when She spoke next, Her words broke him.


“Why must you always treat yourself as disposable? Does My love for you mean nothing?”


Tobias’s insides shattered. She stormed from the chamber, slamming the door hard enough to send it rattling on its hinges. Hylas winced, but Tobias remained still, a statue mortared to the floor. He had broken Her heart, something he’d sworn never to do, not again. He glanced down at the ribbon wrapping his wrist, and a pang shot through him. He’d promised to devote the rest of his days to Her, and he was honoring that vow.


He would save Leila, even if it meant losing Her forever.



OceanofPDF.com

c4FC
    
  


  


Chapter 26

Leila


Leila slammed the door behind Her with as much force as She could summon. Two door-slams in a row. She was especially indignant, and no amount of noise could properly express Her anger. She paced the weathered floor of the second inn chamber—Her chamber, the one She shared with Tobias, and his name alone nearly made Her hiss. Damn that man and his naivety. Leila clenched Her fists so tight Her nails dug into the meat of Her palms, and She reveled in the pain.


The door creaked behind Her, and She busied Herself with a scroll on the tabletop. The visitor wasn’t Tobias; She could tell by the softness of the footsteps and even more so by the lack of color. Tobias had been shrouded in a soupy mess of emotions in the other room. There was no way he’d recovered so quickly.


“Thought You might need some water,” Raphael said.


Leila swallowed, Her throat undeniably parched. “If you’re here to convince Me⁠—”


“I’m here to help You conceive a plan.” Raphael’s voice was level, almost emotionless. “I don’t want to see Tobias in harm’s way. I know You don’t either.”


“You’re lying.”


“I just want a solution to this, that’s all.”


Clenching Her jaw, She turned to face him. He held a chalice toward Her, and She swiped it up and gulped it down, grateful for something to cool Her temper. “It’s ludicrous, his idea.” She wiped Her lips and set the chalice on the tabletop. “Completely absurd. Can you believe he had the gall to say all that, like it was reasonable?”


“It was quite something,” Raphael said.


She studied him out of the corner of Her eye. He stood poised and unassuming, the air around him still devoid of color. Damn Her foul mood. It was making Her suspicious. “Well, if you’re really here to help, I propose we get started straight away.” She took a seat at the small table. “And I don’t want to hear the word bait ever again.”


Raphael nodded, pulling up a chair at Her side. “Let’s begin with the borders.”


“Yes, that’s exactly where My mind went.” She leaned in close, alit with strategy. This was exactly what She needed—another sharp mind to discuss tactics and schemes with. She’d had many such sessions with Delphi at the palace. “Soldiers can’t be on guard forever. Eventually there will be rotations. If we time our escape perfectly, we can use the seconds of vulnerability to our advantage.”


“Unfortunately, rotations are often staggered,” Raphael said. “The borders will always be guarded in some capacity.”


“Well, certainly their numbers would be limited during rotations.” Leila remembered the words of Her comrade and smirked. “We can follow Enzo’s suggestion. Kill the soldiers who remain. We’ve done it before.”


“We’ve had great success in our battles thus far. But I’m afraid we’d be facing opposition beyond our capabilities.” Raphael met Leila’s gaze, the look in his eyes forlorn. “There will be hundreds of soldiers at each border. No matter our competence, we will inevitably fail.”


Leila scowled. Perhaps this wasn’t exactly like Her nights with Delphi at the palace. A handful of senators weren’t quite the same as countless soldiers. She sat up straighter.


“We need a grand distraction. A false attack, or an explosion, even. Something to pull the soldiers in the opposite direction while we cross to Kovahr.”


Raphael nodded along, turning Her words over in his mind. “That would be ideal, yes. But a diversion of that magnitude requires a great deal of manpower and supplies. I’m not confident we have the resources.”


“Why are you dismissing every idea I have?”


“It’s of the utmost importance that this plan works. I simply aim to ensure Your victory.”


Leila shifted in Her seat. Her mind was tiptoeing away from Her, trespassing into darkened corners, and She shook Herself just to regain control. “Perhaps Tobias was right about one thing. We pull forces away from the border. Divert attention.” She plucked a map from the satchel hanging on Her chair and laid it out on the tabletop. “If Brontes needs a reason to believe we’re in Ethyua, we’ll give him one.”


“Yes, agreed. That’s a much more manageable direction.” Raphael peered over the map alongside Her.


“What if he receives correspondence from Ethyua? A scroll detailing our false whereabouts.”


“And who is to write and send this scroll?”


Leila cast him a glare, though he ignored it, his eyes set on the tanned parchment. “Hylas can travel to Ethyua,” She said. “I’ll give him the gift of shadow walking. He can send the correspondence anonymously.”


“Yes. A fine plan.” Raphael stopped short, his brow creasing. “Except if he’s never been to Ethyua, shadow walking isn’t much of an option, and their border control is⁠—”


“Harsh,” Leila said. “Right. Shit.”


“Not to mention it’ll take him some time to cross. Time we don’t have.” Raphael cleared his throat, eyeing Leila sidelong. “And we don’t yet know if You’d be able to bless him, considering how fickle Your magic has been these days.”


A growl bubbled in Leila’s throat, but She forced it down. He was helping Her, devising the answer Tobias had failed to find. Patience was necessary no matter Her mood.


“If I were to claim the Ethyuan monarch’s ear and tell him of our predicament⁠—”


“He’d be agreeable, I’m sure,” Raphael said. “But how are we to speak to him when he’s miles away?”


“Oh, for fuck’s sake⁠—”


“Our plan must be perfect.” Raphael’s voice was gentle. “There’s no room for error. Not with so much at stake.”


“What if we just shadow walked to safety? Return to the Krios Woods.”


“We need an army, Leila,” Raphael said. “And that army is in Kovahr. What purpose would returning to the woods serve?”


Leila cursed under Her breath. She’d known it was a stupid suggestion before it had even left Her lips, but desperation was nipping at Her, weakening Her resolve. Surely there was a solution. There had to be. Tobias crept into the corner of Her mind—his colors muddied with sadness and certainty, the pained look in his large eyes, the steady rise and fall of his chest. Bastard.


“So, maybe bait isn’t the worst idea,” She barely bit out. “We just have to find the right bait.”


“Absolutely.” Raphael pursed his lips as he often did when deep in thought. “What would make the bait particularly effective? Someone from the palace, perhaps?”


Leila snorted. “God, no. Palace workers have always been disposable in Brontes’s eye. He barely saw them as people. Do you know what he did to My mother? Well, not My mother, but My second mother. Never mind. It’s a sad story.”


“What about Delphi?”


Leila started. “My sister?”


“I’m just saying⁠—”


“She’s My sister, Raph.” Her eyes narrowed, boring into Raphael’s skull. “It wouldn’t work, anyway. Brontes knows she’d never speak, and thus he’d have no need to keep her alive. We need someone he believes he could bend. Someone imperative to his cause.”


Raphael nodded along. “Someone who most assuredly is a part of Your voyage and has a close association to You.”


“Exactly.” Leila’s heart raced. They were onto something. “Tobias’s family is out of the question. It would be unspeakably cruel, plus Brontes would find them of little value. No, we need someone of My highest esteem. Someone important to Me, which will make them important to Brontes.”


“I believe You’re right.” Raphael mirrored Her tenacity. “Who best matches that description?”


Leila opened Her mouth to speak but fell silent.


Tobias fit that description.


Power withered away within Her, leaving Her hollow. She leaned back in Her seat. “Dammit, Raph.”


“Leila—”


“I know what you’re doing.”


“I’ve told You, I’m here to devise a plan. Whatever will most ensure Your victory.”


His words were muffled by the blood pumping behind Her ears. Something tightened around Her throat—a fist, perhaps Her father’s. Either way it had become harder to breathe. She’d avoided this feeling, had run far from it, chasing a reality all Her own.


“I’m not doing it.”


“Doing what?” Raphael asked.


“Quit playing with Me.”


“If the plan doesn’t work, speak freely. Tell me why.”


Leila took in a shallow breath. It shamed Her to have such little control of Her own body, the only thing in the world that truly belonged to Her. Everything within Her became stiff and clenched, clinging to whatever composure She could manage.


“You said it yourself. My magic is fickle. Even if I give Tobias the gift, we don’t know if he’ll be able to use it.”


“You’ve blessed Tobias a number of times. He seems quite at ease wielding Your light.” Raphael looked Her in the eyes, his gaze soft, even sad. “And since the three of us have traveled far south together, we know he can shadow walk to any of our former whereabouts without trouble. He’s spoiled for choice.”


His pitying stare broke through Her, a blister upon Her skin. Rage yet again simmered in Her veins, forcing Her to Her feet, but She didn’t yell or slam doors. Instead, She kept still, eyes pointed at nothing as She recounted every maneuver considered, every strategy abandoned.


“There’s no other answer, is there?” She whispered.


“No,” Raphael said. “I’m afraid not.”


Leila tried to take in a breath, but Her lungs wouldn’t expand. Tobias was right. She’d known it from the moment he’d spoken those words. Perhaps She’d known sooner but simply couldn’t accept it. There were countless options, and nearly all of them ended in Her death, and therefore the death of Her realm. Only one gave Her people some semblance of hope, and it was the one option that would surely ruin Her.


“Brontes will torture him.” Her voice became unsteady. “He may not survive.”


“He will survive,” Raphael said. “And You will release him with Your army at Your side.”


He stood barely an arm’s length away. She wasn’t sure when he’d abandoned his seat or closed the space between them, too caught up in the firing of Her heartbeat. I can’t do it. I won’t. But the choice wasn’t Hers alone, and Her steely composure was beginning to collapse.


“He loves You, Leila.” Raphael crept closer, placing a warm hand on Her shoulder. “Let him make this sacrifice for You. For Thessen.”


Her throat caught, the walls around Her slipping. “I’d like to be alone, please.”


She didn’t watch as he left the room, sucking in a desperate breath once the door closed behind him. In an instant, Her defenses crumbled—Her lungs heaved for air, hot tears streaked Her cheeks, and She let out a sob that shamed Her. She couldn’t do it. She was a queen, and yet in that moment, She would’ve sacrificed every Thessian life to save Tobias. She balled Her hands into fists, shaking as anger and grief rocked Her insides. To hell with the God that granted Her this title—this curse. She wasn’t ready. She would never be ready.


She couldn’t leave Tobias, yet She had no choice.



OceanofPDF.com

c4HZ
    
  


  


The Dungeon

Tobias slumped against the bars of his cell, his jaw throbbing with each beat of his heart. He wasn’t sure the last time he’d seen Brontes—hours, maybe days. Without any windows to spy the rise and fall of the sun, time had lost significance to him. There were plenty of other sensations to occupy his attention—the swift swelling of his face, the metallic taste on his tongue, the unbearable ache of each bloody chasm in his mouth. Pippa whimpered from her nearby cell, and he crept his hand between the bars, which she quickly grabbed and squeezed.


Hinges squeaked, followed by familiar heavy footsteps. The masked man entered the dungeon, and panic shot through Tobias like a lightning bolt. He shuffled across the dirt floor, scooting farther away until his back slammed against the stone wall. Pain spiked through his lesioned skin, but he ignored it, eyes trained on the steadily approaching warden. He thought to scream but couldn’t manage the sound, as if his throat was already locked in his torturer’s grip. The man stopped in front of the cell door while Tobias pressed himself against the wall, willing it to crumble behind him.


Pippa scrambled to the front of Her cell, arms outstretched between the bars. A satchel hung from the warden’s shoulder, and he rummaged through it, pulling out three sweet rolls and placing them in Pippa’s eager hands. Next, he brought a waterskin to her lips, and she gulped it down greedily, the clear liquid running rivulets down her dirt-stained cheeks. As she turned her focus to her rolls, the warden unhooked a ring of keys from his belt and opened Tobias’s cell.


Tobias’s feet scraped across the dirt floor, propelling him to escape, but there was no use. He was trapped in the cell’s corner, helpless as the warden stalked closer, not even an arm’s length away. He crouched low to the ground, and Tobias could barely breathe, clawing at the dirt as he braced himself for the agony to come.


“Can you chew?” the man said.


Tobias’s jaw throbbed as if on cue, and he shot his torturer a scathing glare.


“Can you swallow?”


Tobias didn’t respond, muscles flexed and hands trembling. The warden dug through his satchel, and though Tobias prepared himself for a blade, three more sweet rolls appeared. The masked man offered them to Tobias.


“Brontes is in a meeting with General Stratos.” He cocked his head at the offering. “Eat. Leave no trace behind.”


Tobias’s eyes flitted between the masked beast and the rolls in his grasp. It’s poisoned. His empty stomach growled in protest.


“You need sustenance,” the warden maintained. “I don’t know when my next visit will be.”


Don’t do it. But he was already salivating. Pippa was sucking her fingers, her food long devoured, and against his better judgment, he tore the rolls into pieces and stuffed them in his mouth, allowing them to soften before swallowing. The masked man revealed his waterskin, and Tobias snatched it up and gulped it down, sucking every drop until the skin went dry. It wasn’t nearly enough, but the warden pulled the skin away and brought forth another treasure—a small vial half full of a shining blue liquid.


“Drink this,” he said.


Poison. Tobias was flexed yet again, lips curled in disgust.


“Purgar,” the masked man said, as if he could hear Tobias’s thoughts. “An elixir infused with Her Holiness’s light.” He uncorked the vial with a pop. “We cannot make you as you were. Brontes will grow suspicious. But this should hasten your healing and ease the pain somewhat.”


Tobias vaguely remembered purgar from his time in the tournament, unleashing memories of sickness, blood, and other horrors he longed to forget. His instincts still warred within him, but he snatched up the vial and swallowed the elixir in one swig. At first it was tepid and tasteless, but it carried a sharp tang on its way down, tingling the back of his throat.


The warden pocketed the empty vial, offering Tobias a curt nod. “I will continue to steer his hand away from more lethal methods.”


“Kill him,” Tobias growled, his words lathered with disdain.


The masked man was quiet for a moment, something odd, almost weak reflecting in his eyes. “Brontes is guarded at all times by a squad of ten at a minimum, often more.” He rose to his feet. “I am no match for such numbers. And I cannot fail—not while Her Holiness requires my service.”


Without parting, he abandoned the cell, locking it behind him with a demoralizing clank. He looked Tobias in the eyes one last time, and despite his act of kindness, Tobias’s insides roared with hatred.


“Rest and recover, Your Highness,” the warden said. “Your queen awaits your return.”



OceanofPDF.com

c4JW
    
  


  


Chapter 27

Tobias


Tobias sank into the mattress, luxuriating in the comfortable quiet. He threaded his fingers through Leila’s hair, caressing Her neck as She rested against his chest, Her arms wrapped around him. Each sensation was magnified in its perfection—the steady rise and fall of Her shoulders, the light thumping of Her heartbeat, the sweet scent of Her hair. Their allies were likely fast asleep in their separate chamber, but Tobias was keen to stay awake all night reveling in Leila’s presence. He was leaving the next day. He had to make every moment and every touch count.


“I’m sorry.” Leila spoke against the crook of his neck, Her voice meager. “I just didn’t want to face it. I was so cruel⁠—”


“Shh,” Tobias said. “Just rest.”


He looped his fingers through Her long locks, then trailed his fingertips down Her back. Had Her skin always been so soft? So warm? The next day entered his thoughts, and he swept it aside. Nothing could ruin their last moments together.


“I wish the seconds would slow.” Leila nestled Her head beneath his chin. “That we could just stay here like this.”


Tobias stared at the ceiling, lingering on Her every word as if they were notes in a song. “I’d never known true peace until I knew this—You lying in my arms.”


“I can’t believe you’re going.” Her voice caught, and She squeezed him tighter.


“Only for a short while. And You will claim Your army and rescue me.” He took Her chin, guiding Her line of sight toward his. “Then we’ll be right here again, together in peace.”


“I love you, Tobias.”


She pressed Her lips to his, a long kiss that traveled down his chest and settled in his loins. He tucked a loose strand of hair behind Her ear, losing himself in Her deep amber eyes. Red flashed in his periphery—his promise, still tied tight around his wrist. He sat upright.


“Marry me,” he said. “Tonight.”


Leila sat at his side, perplexed. “What?”


“I can wake Raphael. He’ll officiate.”


“Now? Why⁠—?”


“I can leave a married man, bound to the woman I love.” He took Her hands, fighting to quell the nervous energy stirring inside of him. “If I die, let me die as Your husband.”


“But you won’t die,” Leila said. “Remember? I’m coming to rescue you.”


“Yes, but⁠—”


“No buts.” Her voice came out firm. “You will live, and then we’ll wed.”


“Leila—”


“I need you to have faith in your return. To have a reason to come back to Me.” Her gaze became pleading. “A wedding—wouldn’t that be something to look forward to? Something to give you hope?”


The tremble of Her voice weakened him. She was scared—terrified, even—and he couldn’t have that. He had to be strong for them both.


“You’re right.” He cupped Her cheek. “I’ll return, and we’ll wed, and it’ll be perfect.”


She nestled into his palm, the tension in Her shoulders easing. Tobias offered Her a cheeky smirk. “Don’t fall in love with someone else while I’m gone.”


Leila swatted at him playfully, then took his hand and pressed a kiss to his knuckles. Something had changed in that moment; the air had turned thick, and the distance in Leila’s gaze revealed Her thoughts. Tomorrow, he was returning to Thessen, willfully enabling his own capture. He’d tried to fight his reality, but it was a dark shadow looming over him, threatening to swallow him whole.


Then Leila pulled the thin straps of Her dress down Her arms and straddled Tobias’s waist, wiping his thoughts clean with the sight of Her breasts.


“What are You doing?” he said.


“You need hope to keep you alive and fond memories to keep you warm.” She took his face in Her hands. “There is no fonder memory than a night of passion.”


She kissed him hard, writhing against his lap. The next day vanished from his mind, and suddenly his cock was stiff, and his thoughts were ravenous. Hoisting up Her hips, She grabbed at the waistline of his pants and gave them a tug.


“Leila—”


“I’m waiting to marry you. You can’t expect Me to wait for everything.” Smiling mischievously, She freed his erection from his pants. “You, My darling, need a proper send off.”


She kissed him again, Her sex pressed to his, and he couldn’t help but moan into Her mouth. “Don’t do this just because I’m leaving.”


“Tobias, I have wanted you for ages.” She pulled away breathlessly and looked him in the eyes. “Please don’t make Me beg.”


Her gaze had turned fierce and wolfish. He didn’t need any other convincing. He succumbed to Her kiss, caressing Her tongue with his, his hands raking down Her back and squeezing Her ass.


“Kiss My neck,” She panted. He buried his face against Her throat, licking and nipping at Her soft flesh. “Touch My breasts.” And he obeyed, circling Her nipple with his thumb as a familiar animalistic hunger consumed him. She nuzzled against his hair. “Am I being too demanding?”


“Leila, You can demand I touch Your breasts whenever You please.” Tobias’s lips traveled from Her shoulder to Her mouth, and he couldn’t help but smirk. “I will never, ever complain.”


Leila bit Her lip, then crawled off his lap much to his dismay. She slinked lower on the bed, tugging his pants past his feet before tossing them to the floor. With a wanton smile, She trailed tantalizing kisses up his shaft before enveloping the head of his cock with Her wet mouth, sucking and licking. Pleasure followed each subtle move of Her tongue, a hot and slow-building intensity, and he closed his eyes, blinding himself to all but Her touch.


“Oh my God.” He bit down on his lip, swallowing a growl before grabbing Her shoulders. “Leila, stop.”


“Why?” She looked up at him. “Am I doing it wrong?”


“No, but if You continue, this will all be over before we’ve even begun.”


Her lips split into a self-satisfied smile. “Oh.” She giggled, then returned to Her place on his lap, slinging Her arms over his shoulders as She kissed him fervently. With one swift move, Tobias flipped Her onto Her back, pressing Her into the bed and writhing against Her body. He dragged his lips down Her throat to Her chest, kneading Her breasts and luxuriating in the sound of Her breath catching. He licked and teased Her nipples, then traveled farther south, circling his tongue around Her navel, grabbing a handful of Her dress that was balled up around Her waist. She bucked Her hips, an unspoken command, and he pulled Her dress free, leaving every inch of Her nakedness exposed. He needed more—needed to hear his name on Her lips, Her strangled cries of ecstasy. Swallowing a groan of desire, he spread Her legs wide.


Leila was already gripping the bedsheets, anticipation evident in Her arched back. Tobias took his time, kissing Her inner thighs, nearing the heat of Her center only to shy away, leaving Her wanting more. She let out a frustrated whimper that made him chuckle, and he responded to Her longing, massaging between Her legs, Her wet arousal warm on his fingers. “Tobias.” She breathed out his name as if it took every ounce of strength within Her, Her muscles tensing and heels digging into the mattress. She was so eager, and to have that effect on Her was a privilege he’d never cease to covet. Unable to resist any longer, he slid his tongue up Her center, closing his eyes as he relished Her body, Her yearning, Her taste.


Leila let out a soft gasp, relieved to have his mouth on Her most intimate of places. He swept his tongue along Her clit, sucking and licking, his hands gripping Her thighs as he worked. Leila raked Her fingers through his hair, grabbing tight at the roots and holding his face deep between Her legs, right against Her sweet spot. There was a power to the experience, knowing Her body ached for him, pleaded for more. She pressed Herself against his tongue and swirled Her hips, and his cock jumped in response.


Tobias slid two fingers inside of Her, and the noise She made awakened something carnal within him. He timed the strokes of his fingers with the movement of his tongue, all the while resisting the hypnotic pull of Her moaning, the sound nearly enough to send him crawling on top of Her and thrusting deep inside Her. He wanted to steal a glance, to watch as She came, but Her hands were firmly locked in his hair, an order not to move, not even a little. It wasn’t long before Her muscles stiffened and She let out a cry of passion, tightening Her grip and smothering him with Her sex. Perhaps he’d die the most glorious of deaths, suffocated by Leila’s climax. Her orgasm was a triumph, and he savored it until She collapsed into the mattress, panting.


Tobias sidled up beside Her, kissing up Her collarbone to Her neck as Her breathing stilled. With a lazy laugh, She rolled to Her side and kissed him, biting his lip while swirling Her hips against his. His cock flexed, and She slung a leg over his, an invitation impossible to ignore. Tobias’s throat constricted and his heart pounded. She wanted him, and God, he wanted Her. He rolled Her onto Her back, nestling himself between Her legs. She let out an unsteady breath, and Her hands began to tremble.


“Are You nervous?” he whispered.


“A little,” She said, and his apprehension must’ve been clear across his face, because She scowled. “Don’t you dare stop now, Tobias.” She slung a leg over his back, pressing his pelvis against Hers. “I want to.”


Tobias’s mouth went dry, his nerve endings screaming for action. He leaned closer, leaving Her with a long, tender kiss while his hand ventured south, finding Her center and circling Her swollen clit. She was warm and wet, practically pleading to be filled. He positioned his cock at Her entrance and slowly slid inside.


Leila froze beneath him. “Is it in?”


“Leila, that’s just the tip.”


“Oh, thank God.” She exhaled, then furrowed Her brow. “Why just the tip?”


“It’s a very tight squeeze,” he said. “I can’t just ram into You. Well, I could, but You wouldn’t like it.”


Her eyes widened. “Is this going to be painful? I was afraid of this.”


“It’s a process. That way You’re comfortable.”


“How do you know all this?” Leila said.


Tobias thought back to his conversation with Sabine from nearly a month ago. “I came prepared.”


Leila nodded, relaxing beneath him. It wasn’t lost on him that his cock was still partially inside Her and the rest of it was begging for the same. A chaotic mess of anxiety and desire waged war within him, competing for his attention, and he fought to still his mind and his breathing, desperate for some sense of control. Wrangling composure, he cooed against Leila’s lips, “I’ll be gentle. If You want me to stop, just say so.” All the while he eased himself inside until She’d taken him in fully, his body ending where Hers began.


Leila’s breathing was shallow, Her fingers digging into his arms. “Does it hurt?” Tobias asked, but She shook Her head, trembling beneath him.


“I just need a moment,” She said. And Tobias nodded, kissing Her lips and Her neck, indulging in the heavenly warmth of Her sex wrapped around his cock. Her grip on his arms loosened, and he flexed his hips, pulling back slowly and surging forward. She gasped, a sound of pleasure, then captured his lips between Hers, releasing a strangled whimper into his mouth.


“Do You want me to⁠—?”


“Yes,” Leila panted, clamping him tight between Her thighs. “Keep going.”


He rocked his hips, a bit awkwardly at first, until he found his rhythm, undulating with Leila as if their bodies were the rolling sea. Nerves spiked beneath his flesh, poking holes in his confidence, until Leila writhed against him and clawed at his back, Her fingernails leaving the most intoxicating pain in their wake. He set his doubts aside. He must’ve been doing something right, each scratch mark along his flesh validation of his prowess. He tested his limits, coming in harder, and Leila tossed a leg over his back as She called his name in his ear. Victory. He basked in each sensation—the hunger of Her raking hands, the heaving of Her breasts, and the throbbing of his cock, on the brink of ruin. His mind was a mess, flitting between the allure of Leila’s body, to Sabine’s wisdom, to anything that would temper his arousal.


“Just like that,” Leila whimpered. “Fuck Me.”


That didn’t help at all. Tobias nearly lost himself, and he gritted his teeth, praying for staying power. He was thrusting faster, fueled by his lecherous thoughts and Her filthy mouth, and he wasn’t sure how much longer he’d last. He groaned into Her hair, sweat dripping down his back. He wanted, needed to bring Her to completion. Resolved, he grabbed hold of Her thigh, pressing it into Her chest and throwing Her calf over his shoulder.


“Tobias—”


He came down harder and deeper, and he was certain the pleasure wasn’t his alone when Her voice climbed higher. Each stroke came to the hilt as he filled Her entirely, and Her hands latched onto his ass, forcing him against Her with each thrust. Her orgasm was near—he could feel it—and it was well-timed, because the pressure within him was building, nearly ready to explode.


“Tobias, I think—” Her breathing became laborious. “I think I’m going to⁠—”


Come. The word disappeared in a moan, and She bit down on Her lip as if to contain Herself.


“I want You to,” he panted. “I want to make You come.”


A slight fib. He needed Her to come, because he was seconds away from it himself, and even the most unappealing thoughts wouldn’t be able to hold him back for much longer. We’re at war. I lost my apprenticeship. Milo’s dead. He fought to distract his mind, but everything within him was fiery hot, and Leila’s cunt was so wet and tight and oh my God, stop thinking about it. But he couldn’t. The end was near. He just needed Leila to get there first.


Then it happened—Her body went rigid, and She let out the telltale cry of ecstasy. Her sex tightened around his cock, holding it captive, the most delicious feeling he’d ever experienced. She trembled beneath him, eyes clenched shut and mouth wide, a vision of bliss that he’d created. Her orgasm could’ve lasted for an eternity. Time had slowed as he reveled in Her, soaking up the woman who had welcomed him into Her body.


She sank into the mattress, Her muscles loosening as She caught Her breath. That was his cue, and it didn’t take long before his own dam burst. His cock throbbed as a primal intensity overtook him—pleasure he’d felt before, but somehow it was better in this warm, wet place. Leila held him against Her, taking in all of him as he basked in the utter euphoria of being one with Her.


The intensity ebbed. He hadn’t noticed the heavy surging of his lungs, how his heart was threatening to break through his chest. He collapsed at Leila’s side, sweat cooling his overworked body. Leila giggled, a vision of pure glee, their bedsheet pressed to Her chest.


“I must say, I’m impressed with us. I think we’re rather quick learners.” She nudged his shoulder. “We seemed to get the hang of it.”


Tobias didn’t respond, his eyelids heavy. That was amazing. He’d meant to speak the words aloud, but he was distracted by the fatigue settling over him. He’d been exhausted before, but never in this intoxicating way.


“Are you all right?”


“I’m more than all right,” Tobias managed to say. “You beautiful, irresistible creature.” He smiled aimlessly at the ceiling, creeping his hand into Hers. Leila was his promised, both in heart and in body.


“Are you tired?” Leila asked.


Tobias nodded. “You wore me out.” He closed his eyes. “Why?”


“Well, I was going to recommend we do it again. Maybe try a new position. But if you’re tired⁠—”


Tobias rolled on top of Her, throwing Her into a fit of laughter. Sweeping the hair from Her face, he grinned. “I’m not tired anymore.”


Her giggles disappeared against his lips as She threaded Her arms around his neck. My promised. My love. The morning would bring many uncertainties, but he’d handle them as they came. In that moment, there was only Leila, Her inviting lips and the soft curve of Her body.


He hadn’t planned on sleeping anyway.



OceanofPDF.com

c4NU
    
  


  


Chapter 28

Leila


Leila counted each of Tobias’s breaths, Her cheek rising and falling against his chest. Light trickled in through the slats of their window shutters as the sun began to rise. She hadn’t slept much that night, in large part due to their carnal exploits, but even after their bodies slowed and Her legs ached, She didn’t find peace. Each passing second was one step closer to Her greatest fear being realized. Tobias was leaving Her soon, and She didn’t know if She’d ever see him again.


The door crept open, and Hylas’s hesitant face poked inside. Leila didn’t bother with discretion. She and Tobias lay together naked, their legs entwined, a sheet wrapping them at the waist. Hylas swallowed, his expression pained.


“It’s nearly time,” he whispered.


“A few more minutes,” Tobias said.


Leila didn’t move, didn’t speak as Hylas closed the door. How long had Tobias been lying beneath Her, pretending to be asleep just as She had? Perhaps he too was trying to stall their finality. She nuzzled against his chest, taking in the slight prickle of hair between his pecs, his scars from the tournament, the hard planes of his muscles. She’d be deprived of them soon. She needed to memorize them, to feel them against Her fingertips long after he was gone.


Tobias pressed his lips to Her forehead, then wove his fingers through Her hair. It was time. She could tell by the length of his kiss and the delicacy of his touch. He was savoring Her. She squeezed him tighter, determined not to let go, not yet. Just a moment longer.


“Darling.” His voice was tired and husky.


He didn’t need to say anything else. She met his gaze, holding it intently. Deep brown eyes looked back at Her, their darkness vast enough to drown in. He was the first to move, coming in close and kissing Her slowly, gently, lingering as if he was scared to part. As if this might be the last time.


She dressed with particular care, situating the straps of Her dress one at a time, then tying and retying the ribbon at Her waist until the bow at Her back sat perfectly. Perhaps if She moved at a glacial pace, time itself would do the same. Maybe they’d discover a new plan, one that kept Tobias safe at Her side. Maybe the soldiers would leave Trogolia entirely, allowing Her and Her comrades to travel as they pleased. But soon Her hair was brushed and sandals were laced, and no such change had occurred. Tobias’s olive cloak was clasped at his neck, a satchel thrown over his shoulder and a sword sheathed at his hip. He was ready, but She wasn’t.


They convened in the second chamber, where Enzo, Raphael, and Hylas were waiting. Enzo sat unbothered in his seat, too numb to bloodshed for his own good. Raphael was guarded, his stony expression a convincing mask. But stoicism wasn’t Hylas’s strong suit, and his expression was dismal, his bottom lip trembling. Damn that man. Her resolve was already teetering on the edge, seconds from ruin.


“Should we begin?” Raphael said.


Leila looked to Tobias, hoping Her gaze spoke for Her. Change your mind. Perhaps he could hear Her thoughts, would heed Her plea.


He nodded, and Her stomach sank. This is really happening.


She slid Her hand up the front of his tunic, placing Her palm in the center of his chest. Give him the gift. Her light answered Her call, blazing from Her flesh to his, uniting them one last time. His eyes were heavy with sadness, as if he were apologizing wordlessly. But this decision—his fate—was Her burden to carry. This was Her father, Her war, and Her deepest regret.


She pulled Her hand free, the remnants of Her power burning Her fingertips. Tobias adjusted his tunic, his neck visibly tense and arms flexed. The silence in the room was stilted, and Leila’s lungs tightened, suffocating Her one second at a time. She’d known torture before, but not like this.


“Good luck.” Raphael stepped forward, giving Tobias’s hand a firm shake. “Stay strong.”


“Thank you for doing this for us,” Hylas choked out.


Enzo hopped up from his seat. “Hapa!” He slapped Tobias hard on the back, a proud grin plastered across his face. “My friend, a true warrior.”


Tobias chuckled, though the sound died soon after. His eyes drifted down to his wrist—and the red ribbon wrapping it.


Leila swallowed. They were thinking the same thing—She knew it even before he began untying the bow, but the unraveling ribbon broke something within Her regardless. He took Her wrist and delicately tied the promise beside the one She already wore.


“Keep this safe for me, yes?” he said.


A lump formed in Her throat, so She nodded in response. The sight of his promise would only fuel Brontes’s rage. They didn’t need to tempt him any further—to give him a reason to hurt Tobias more than he already would. She resisted the urge to wince. She couldn’t think about that, not in front of him.


Tobias’s face dropped. “Please don’t cry.”


The softness of his voice wounded Her, another pain She couldn’t bear. Tears pricked at Her eyes, but She kept them at bay. “I have no reason to cry. I’ll be seeing you again. In mere days, really.” Digging Her nails into Her palms, She smiled. “It won’t be long at all.”


Tobias met Her smile with his own, though the sorrow in his gaze didn’t lift. “Exactly.” He gazed at Her for a moment too long, taking Her hand in his and rubbing his thumb over Her knuckles. He turned to the others. “Take care of one another.” He looked to Leila, releasing his hold of Her. “Secure Your army.”


Her fingers twitched, longing for his touch to return. “I will, thanks to you.”


“I love You.”


Leila set Her jaw. Those damn tears were testing Her, but She resisted their pull. “I love you, Tobias. So much.”


He smiled again, and it finally reached his eyes. She could’ve lost Herself in those deep brown irises, could linger in his gaze forever, knowing with absolute conviction that She was adored. That She was his.


And then he was gone, an inky blackness left in his wake.


Leila blinked. The shadowy swirls of Her magic were fading, leaving Her with an empty chamber. With nothing.


She sucked in a gasping breath. It seemed as though She hadn’t breathed in ages, as She was suddenly desperate for air, certain She’d suffocate right there in that inn. Every impulse within Her screamed, a fast-building frenzy.


“What have I done?” The words wobbled free from Her lips. She spun toward the others. “Why did none of you stop Me? How could . . . how could you just let this happen?”


They stared back at Her, Enzo with confusion, Hylas with defeat, and Raphael with a look of pity that shamed Her. Her hands shook at Her sides.


“I have to get him.” Her heart hammered against Her rib cage. “I have to⁠—”


Raphael’s eyes widened. “Leila⁠—”


“It’s not right. I have to get him.”


“Leila, no.”


Raphael grabbed Leila’s wrist, but She ripped Herself free. “Let go of Me,” She growled, but he persisted, wrapping Her in his arms. “Let go of Me!”


Her voice broke, and Raphael tightened his hold on Her. She shoved at his chest, spewing nonsense even She couldn’t decipher. No, She wasn’t speaking at all. She was sobbing, the tears She’d fought to repress unleashed. Cries of the deepest despair ripped from Her throat, rendering Her more banshee than woman, a vision of uncontrolled grief. She sank to the floor, and Raphael sank with Her, cradling Her in his arms as Her tears kept falling. Composure was a stranger, and She didn’t know how long they sat there, Her allies bearing witness to Her weakness. Only one fact rang true, reverberating through Her as She clung to Raphael, voice rasping and body quaking.


She would never forgive Herself for this.



OceanofPDF.com

c4RF
    
  


  


Chapter 29

Tobias


The crack of bones breaking echoed off the dungeon walls. Tobias clenched his jaw, failing to swallow his scream as sweat dripped down his temples. He had thought that given the repetition, he’d grow used to torture, that his flesh would harden and numb. Instead, his skin was open, wet, and raw, his muscles ached, and his bones protruded at unnatural angles. Each slash cut deeper, each jab came in stronger, and each scream cut through his throat with a fiery edge.


There was no numbness. The pain only got worse.


Another harsh snap, and a howl ripped free from Tobias’s lips. The warden hovered over him, his gaze impassive as Tobias’s broken finger remained mangled in his grasp. Tobias hated that man. It didn’t matter that he had been feeding him while Brontes convened with his vultures, that the purgar had eased his aching jaw. He felt nothing but contempt for the man who left him marred.


“Are we feeling vocal now?” Brontes said. “Care to share anything with me?”


Tobias’s lips sputtered blood, but he shot the man a glare regardless. Brontes leaned against the wall beside his usual line of guards, their faces perpetually devoid of emotion. The warden may have been vile, but at least he was honest. Brontes never visited Tobias without his loyal soldiers, and their numbers seemed to increase with each passing day. Who was he so afraid of? It was hard to imagine Brontes as vulnerable when Tobias was the one beaten and shamed.


Brontes came in closer, staring down at Tobias with a probing gaze. Tobias sat in his usual wooden chair, his wrists, chest, and ankles bound with rope that sliced into his flesh. He glared at Brontes, though feigning fortitude was becoming increasingly difficult to do. A single vein bulged in Brontes’s forehead, and Tobias braced himself.


“Take out his eye,” Brontes said.


Tobias lurched in his seat, fighting for freedom. It was useless; the legs of the chair were bolted to the floor, but his instincts fired off, begging for the strength to free himself from his bindings. No such escape occurred, and when the masked man gripped Tobias’s face and held it in place, Tobias couldn’t stop the tears that streamed down his cheeks.


The warden froze, Tobias’s face in one hand, a blade in the other.


“I said, take out his eye, you daft cunt!” Brontes spat.


“You’d have him carry your likeness?” The warden turned to Brontes. “To have him marked as you are would be a badge of honor he hasn’t earned.”


Brontes’s neck flexed, contained rage alive in his reddening face. He was stewing over the warden’s words, visibly conflicted. Snarling, he snatched the blade from the man’s fist.


“For fuck’s sake, I’ll do it myself⁠—”


“Your Majesty.” Feet pattered down the stairwell, and a familiar round face appeared—Wembleton, another worthless fuck. “News from the palace. Heralds have told the people of your great victory.”


“Leave us,” Brontes growled.


“General Stratos needs to speak with you,” Wembleton quickly added, trepidation alive in his voice. “He said it’s quite urgent.”


Brontes glanced between Wembleton and Tobias for long, torturous seconds. Finally, he growled. “Put him in his cell.”


He shoved the blade against the warden’s chest and followed Wembleton up the dungeon stairs, his line of guards dutifully trailing his every step. The masked man untied Tobias’s bindings with some semblance of care, then half-ushered, half-dragged Tobias to his cell, discarding him before locking the door behind him.


General Stratos. It was the second time Tobias had heard that name, but he was too depleted to ponder who that man could be. Cringing, he pulled himself across the dirt floor with his one good hand, cradling the other until he reached the corner of his cell. Bars pressed against his gashed back, and he winced, then tried to find an adequate manner of leaning that didn’t somehow reopen any of his wounds. The endeavor was futile, and he eventually succumbed to his reality—that pain was as constant to him as breathing, a forever looming punishment.


Pippa whimpered in the cell next to his, and he realized then that they weren’t alone. A woman leaned against the banister of the stairwell, an emerald silk dress cinching her buxom figure, an understated silver crown nestled amid her red hair. Pippa’s lip wobbled, grief alive in her gaze, while disgust roiled in Tobias’s stomach. He’d forgotten about this one. He hated her too.


“Poor Artist,” Cosima cooed. “You’re not looking well these days.”


“You’re looking like the same crooked bitch you’ve always been.”


She sauntered closer, a smug smirk plastered across Her full lips. “That’s no way to speak to your queen.”


“He will never make you queen. Surely you must know that. You’re not stupid. Or are you?”


Cosima didn’t react. She grabbed a lone chair and dragged it toward the cell, taking a seat in front of Tobias and ignoring her tearful sister entirely. “We have an arrangement.”


“So, you are stupid.”


“Bold words from a man rotting in a cell.”


“I don’t believe it.” Tobias shook his head. “There’s no way you can possibly think he’ll share the throne with you. That he sees you as anything more than a means to an end.” His intake of breath sent pain lancing through his broken ribs, and he stifled a wince, biting out his words. “You may hope and pray that it’s true, but deep down you must know it’s a lie. That you’re being played. The man aims to kill his own daughter yet claims he’ll show you no harm.”


“I’m different. I’m⁠—”


“Special?” Tobias’s eyes narrowed. “You’re not special at all.”


Cosima’s gaze flashed with anger, though it was brief. She carried herself with poise, but the veil was slipping, and something about that felt like victory. “You underestimate me,” she said. “I have my own power, and I can be very persuasive.”


“I’ve seen your methods of persuasion. The appeal fades rather quickly.”


“And why should I value your opinion? You’re a common man with no understanding of politics, no mind for strategy⁠—”


“Strategy?” Tobias balked. “You reek of desperation. You betrayed the only person in this world who loved you, and you allowed a snake to slither up between your legs, all for that secondhand piece of silver on your head. No, there isn’t a hint of strategy in any decision you’ve made. I almost pity you.”


Her nostrils flared. “Pity me?”


“You are a dog at the feet of your master, performing tricks in hope of a treat. But one day your master will grow tired of you, and he will put you down.”


Cosima spat at his feet, a triumph he hadn’t anticipated. Hatred was the one pure, good sensation he’d felt in ages, and he craved it. Reveled in it.


Orders and vulgarities echoed down the stairwell—Brontes, his anger enough to shake the dungeon around them. Normally his voice would frighten Tobias, but not now.


“Go on then.” Tobias cocked his head toward the stairwell. “Master’s calling.”


Cosima cast him one last glare before standing, situating her dress as she hurried from the dungeon. Something impish flooded Tobias, and he raised his voice.


“So sorry if this meeting didn’t go as you’d intended.”


He leaned back against the bars, his hatred a balm for his wounds.



OceanofPDF.com

c4T5
    
  


  


Chapter 30

Leila


Exactly seven days passed before the troops began retreating from Trogolia, then another four before their new, lax systems were in place. Eleven days of Leila waiting in the inn, staring out the window. Eleven days for Tobias to be in Brontes’s captivity, enduring God knows what, if he was still alive at all. A lump lodged in Leila’s throat, and She willed Her tears to stay at bay.


Raphael breathed loudly from his spot across the room, reading over his umpteenth scroll of the day. He, Enzo, and Hylas had taken turns coddling Her in Tobias’s absence, even going so far as to sleep on the floor at Her bedside. They made unconvincing excuses—Raphael joined Her because Enzo snored far too loudly, while Hylas took to Her side when he was fearful of the dark. Enzo didn’t bother with lies, simply stating, “I sleep,” before taking root on the floor and dozing off instantly. Perhaps it was kind of them, but She resented their hovering. How could She break down if She was never alone?


Knuckles rapped against the door, and Leila sat up straight. Raphael ushered Enzo and Hylas inside, and Leila couldn’t help but hold Her breath as She searched their faces. Please, let there be news. Something. Anything.


“We have passage,” Hylas said.


Leila emptied Her lungs. Finally. They would leave this wretched realm, seek aid in Kovahr, and rescue Her love. Of course She’d procure an army along the way, but within the past eleven days, that thought had quieted in Her mind. She’d lost sleep dwelling over Tobias, fighting swell after swell of emotion. Was he in a cell somewhere awaiting Her rescue, or was his dead body hanging from a crucifix? A shudder ran through Her.


“And Tobias?”


Hylas’s shoulders slumped. “No news since the last herald. We know he’s in Brontes’s custody. That’s all.”


Leila gnawed at Her bottom lip. Nodding, She looked away.


“Many borders are still guarded,” he continued. “But with soldiers relocating to Ethyua, there are opportunities to seize. Some of the more precarious routes are finally unmanned.”


“Precarious?” Raphael said. “You mean deadly?”


“If people are unlikely to travel that path, there’s little need for patrol any longer.”


Hylas stood strong, but the anxiety in his gaze wasn’t lost on Leila. “Where exactly are we going, Hylas?”


“Póziah Rehk,” Enzo grunted. “God’s River.”


Raphael let out a sardonic laugh while Leila’s stomach sank. God’s River, of all routes. Historians claimed it was named such due to its northward flow, but its title was appropriate for far darker reasons. After all, many who dared to travel the river met God soon after.


“It’s the quickest way to Kovahr. It’s also one of the only borders no longer fortified.” Hylas’s words were rushed, lit with nervousness. “People have already begun utilizing the river—smugglers keen to continue their trade, traders desperate for work⁠—”


“Fools eager to die,” Raphael said.


“It is good plan.” Enzo flicked a dismissive wrist. “Just water. Easy peasy.”


Leila’s gut churned. “How do we cross? We’ll need a vessel.”


“Guides are leading people across for a fee,” Hylas said.


“Can we trust these guides?”


“I don’t think we can trust anyone. But what choice do we have?”


Leila set Her jaw. Hylas was right, but that didn’t make the path forward any less dire. They’d waited days for an exit, and when it finally arrived, it led straight to the grave. Perhaps She should’ve expected as much. Their entire journey had been one unspeakable danger after the next. But navigating a river that had more bodies under its surface than stones? A part of Her wanted to laugh at the idea, dismiss it as madness, but Tobias’s face filled every corner of Her mind.


Her gaze traveled to the two ribbons tied along Her wrist. She would save him. She had to.


“What of the other borders?” Raphael said. “Are there any⁠—?”


“We’ll do it.” Leila turned to Hylas. “Today.”


Raphael spun toward Her. “Leila⁠—”


“This isn’t up for discussion,” She said. “My decision is made. You’re welcome to stay behind. I’ll understand completely, and I will hold you in the highest regard for your many sacrifices and assistance. But I’m going to Kovahr, and I’m going now.”


The room fell silent. Raphael shrank in his seat, discontent alive in his gaze, though he said nothing. His fears were justified, but Tobias was shackled in a cell somewhere, and that more than anything urged Leila to continue.


“So, then . . .” Hylas cleared his throat, glancing from face to face. “To God’s River?”


Leila looked to Raphael, who hesitated for long seconds before nodding. She pressed down the front of Her dress and stood.


“Gather your things. We’re leaving now.”





It had been ages since the cool wind swept Leila’s shoulders, since the grey-blue sky loomed overhead. She closed the front of Her cloak and pulled the burnt orange shawl tight across Her face. Even with the decreased patrol, it was dangerous for Her to be walking the streets of Trogolia. But Tobias lingered in Her mind, an ever-present reminder to push forward. Hylas and Enzo strode paces ahead, and She trained Her eyes on their staggering height difference, blinding Herself to the world around Her. Soldiers be damned. She was leaving this realm, and nothing would stop Her.


The tinkle of a bell sounded as Hylas pushed open the shop door. The space was dismal, its grey-brown walls lined in sharpened steel for labor and fighting. A metalsmith, perhaps? A tall, robust woman, well-muscled like a laborer, hammered the edge of a scythe at the back of the room. Her light brown skin was leathery and marked with raised scars, and her brown hair was pulled back into an oily bun sitting in a messy pile on top of her head. Hylas stopped in front of her, waiting patiently.


The woman didn’t speak for a long while, pounding at the blade’s edge in a steady rhythm. “This isn’t a watering hole.” She didn’t bother to look up from her work. “Make a purchase or leave.”


“You’re Halla?” Hylas said.


“Who’s asking?”


“We were told you navigate God’s River.” Hylas lowered his voice. “We seek passage.”


The next clang of the hammer nearly sent Leila flinching. With a huff, the woman dropped her tool and extended a hand Hylas’s way. “Coin?”


He placed a purse in her palm, and she wasted no time counting the bounty. She eyed the group, lingering on Leila for a moment too long. “Just the four of you?”


“Yes.”


She tied the purse to her belt, scrutinizing the scythe’s blade. “There are no guarantees. Whether all or none of you make it to the other side isn’t my concern.”


Hylas nodded. “We understand.”


Halla grabbed her hammer and began slamming at the scythe again, speaking between swings. “Next party leaves in the morn. We meet by the backdoor at sunrise. A moment later, and we leave without you⁠—”


“We go now,” Leila said.


Halla’s eyes flitted to Hers, and when Leila didn’t yield, she scoffed out a laugh, turning to the men. “She’s funny.”


“You’re closing shop, and we’re leaving,” Leila maintained. “That is our requirement.”


“Listen, you’re not in charge here.”


“We have the coin. We’re absolutely in charge.”


Halla’s eyes narrowed, and she turned to Hylas. “The fuck does this bitch⁠—?”


Leila dropped another purse on the table. “We’re going now.”


The room fell silent. Hylas’s eyes went wide, and though he said nothing, She knew what he was thinking. That was the last of their coin. Perhaps She was being foolish, but caution was a privilege She couldn’t afford. She would save Her love and Her realm or die trying—even if it meant sinking to the depths of God’s River.


After a long silence, Halla flagged a man in the back room. “Jacq,” she barked. “Cover for me.” Tying the purse to her belt, she eyed Leila up and down. “Never seen anyone so eager to meet their maker.”


Leila didn’t waver, didn’t shudder in fear. She’d lost nearly everything already. The odds were stockpiled against Her, and risk had become Her only means of moving forward. Raphael gave Her a tentative glance, as if begging Her to change Her mind, but She remained resolved. She followed Halla from the shop, and Hylas, Enzo, and Raphael trailed behind Her.





Leila wasn’t prepared for the cold of the north. She wasn’t even in the true north, and still Her teeth chattered and fingers went numb. Hylas and Raphael seemed much more composed at Her side, or perhaps they were suppressing the same torment as She. Enzo, on the other hand, was perfectly content, for once not sweating beneath his fur pelts. She could’ve used one of those pelts. He’d likely lend one if She asked, but She dared not show weakness.


Halla let out a grunt before bounding down a muddy hillside and dodging the gnarled branches of leafless trees. They’d been following her on foot for hours, and though Leila should’ve been thankful for her guidance, She grew more impatient with each step. Halla had led them somewhere in the backland of Trogolia, where only ice and dying shrubs existed. When Leila had taken in Her first flecks of sleet, She’d been forced to stifle a gasp. Halla couldn’t see Her as unworldly or naïve. She couldn’t give the woman any excuse to renege on their deal.


Leila wasn’t sure how many hours had passed once She rounded the hillside. The sight below sent Her weak—a rocky riverbed with clear waters stretching far into the distance. God’s River was nothing like the sandy shores of the Atabi, similar only in its vastness and beauty. Smooth stones littered the channel, and pearly ice floated atop the water’s surface. It was hard to imagine such a serene sight destroying lives and sucking them down below.


Halla hoisted a monstrosity from the river’s shore—a meager raft fashioned with logs and twine. She propped her foot atop it. “All aboard.”


Leila glanced between the raft, then Halla, then the raft again. She’d expected the worst, but the pathetic sight before Her had somehow surpassed it, a sham She couldn’t have predicted. She opened Her mouth to speak but couldn’t form the words. Halla’s raft wasn’t a vessel—it was a tomb.


Raphael stepped forward, incredulity written across his face. “Is this a joke?”


“Am I laughing?” Halla said.


Fear and fury dueled in Leila’s belly, but then Tobias flashed before Her eyes, silencing the storm. She marched toward the raft, and the others reluctantly followed.


“Take only what you can carry,” Halla instructed. “There’s no room for cargo, plus the raft can only hold so much weight.”


“You couldn’t have told us that sooner?” Raphael said.


Halla shrugged. “You didn’t ask.”


The four of them looked at their multiple satchels filled with food, linens, weapons, and more. Enzo was already liberally armed, but he quickly began strapping additional weapons to his person while Raphael stuffed a map into his tunic, and Hylas pocketed olives. Two satchels of dried meats and lentils hung from Leila’s shoulder, and She dropped them to the ground. They would receive rations at the citadel, if they reached the citadel at all.


“God’s River is just a few miles across,” Halla said. “It’s a quick journey, but with the rapids, it’ll feel like centuries.” Her eyes panned between the four of them. “If you care for your life, you will hang on until your palms bleed. If at any point you think the waters are calming, you’re wrong.”


Leila’s stomach turned, but She steeled Herself. Hylas shook against the chill, and Raphael set a hard, questioning stare on Leila, pleading with Her through his gaze alone. The only person who seemed unfazed was Enzo, who scratched his balls through his pants as if the threat of death was trivial. Leila resolved to channel his apathy and offered a definitive nod.


“All right then.” Halla cocked her head at the raft. “Move along.”


“That’s it?” Raphael said. “No instruction? No guidance?”


“You paid for a seat on my raft. Not for me to hold your hand.”


Raphael shot another pointed look Leila’s way, and She returned it tenfold. “Best not waste any time then, yes?”


She marched toward the raft with Her head high, though the churning of Her gut threatened to send Her retching.


“Sit on your knees. Gives you greater stability.” Halla tossed one of the two oars Enzo’s way. “You’re rowing with me. The rest of you”—she gestured toward the rope loops atop the logs—“grab onto those.”


Leila swallowed Her sickness and did as she was instructed. She took a wobbly seat on the raft, the lining of Her cloak already saturated with icy cold water. Their conditions would only get worse, and She tried to retain dignity as Hylas and Raphael took their place beside Her. Halla and Enzo were the last to board, taking spots on opposite sides of the raft, oars in hand. Halla pressed her oar against the rocky shoreline, ready to start their journey, then stopped short. Her small, penetrating eyes were set on Leila.


Leila tensed. She recognized that look. Her hood hung low over Her head and Her shawl concealed all but Her eyes, but She couldn’t hide Her skin completely. Thank God for the heavy clouds above; they’d dim Her glow if She were to reveal Herself fully, but they certainly wouldn’t eliminate it. Leila sat up straighter and glared. “What?”


Halla eyed Her for a moment longer, her gaze dancing over Leila’s starkly pale hands. Without a word, she pushed their raft free from the shore, launching them into God’s River.


They drifted across the water, gliding over waves and bumping against boulders. The ice-cold water sloshed between the logs, soaking Leila’s hands and legs, Her teeth chattering seconds into their journey. Halla barked orders at Enzo as they steered their faulty vessel, avoiding jagged rocks and low hanging boughs from the nearby shore. If their entire journey were to remain the same, Leila would manage. Of course, there was no possibility of that happening. God’s River didn’t garner its reputation for no reason.


White foam rippled along the waters ahead, and Leila’s throat sealed shut when the roar of waves grew louder. Soon, their raft was soaring across the river, swift like a throwing spear. Leila’s fingers trembled, and She wasn’t sure if it was the cold or fear making Her body quake.


Stilling her oar, Halla barked over the noise, “Hold steady!”


Hylas and Raphael wasted no time wrapping their wrists in the rope and gripping tight. Leila did the same, heart pounding. She couldn’t speak, couldn’t breathe, eyes trained on their destination—hell in the form of surging torrents crashing together like rolling thunder. Their raft dove straight into the rapids, sending water spraying across the logs, and Leila swallowed a scream as their raft rode atop a wave and shot high into the air.


Their raft landed in the river with a splash, drenching Leila and the others. Hylas sucked in anxious breaths while Raphael closed his eyes and clenched his teeth, bracing himself against the onslaught. Halla shouted orders over the chaos, but Leila could hardly make out her words. The waves pummeled them, an onslaught that threatened to pull Her free from the vessel and swallow Her whole. Their raft slammed against something hard—a boulder splitting the waves—and Leila lurched to the side, falling against the logs. Her wrist screamed, rubbed raw by the rope, but She wrangled Her strength and righted Herself. The howls of the waves clawed at Her ears, and She resisted the urge to join in their wailing.


Water sloshed over the raft, pelting Leila’s face. How much farther did they have? She could’ve sworn She’d been traveling the river for a thousand lifetimes. Halla’s mouth was wide with a roar, but Leila had stopped trying to decipher her orders. Another torrent gushed over the raft, knocking Leila like a battering ram and throwing Her neck back. She cried out in pain, river water sputtering from Her lips. As she blinked the droplets from Her eyelashes, the path ahead became clearer, brighter, even. Her gut lurched.


Her hood had fallen, and She was glowing.


Halla paddled against the current, hair drenched and skin glistening. She turned to the others, shouting more unheard orders, until her eyes fell on Leila, and she froze.


“What the⁠—?”


Halla’s eyes fluttered closed as she fainted, and she tumbled from the raft, vanishing beneath the waves.


Leila screamed, but no sound came out, or perhaps She simply couldn’t hear it amid the waves. Raphael took Halla’s place, fumbling frantically for the oar but missing it by a whisper, helpless as it cracked against the rocks and floated away. Fuck. They’d lost their guide, they’d lost an oar, and Leila was beginning to lose Her sanity. Maybe Halla would survive, but Her hope died as their raft was once again launched into the air, sending all four of them reeling. They landed against the water with a hard smack, and Leila’s jaw slammed shut, pain lancing through Her skull.


“Tretsya!” Enzo pointed across the river. “There!”


Leila strained to see through the chaos. A white speck was barely visible in the distance.


Land.


She freed a wrist from the rope and brushed Her wet locks from Her eyes. Yes, She could see it—a patch of greyish snow, far away but very real. Something akin to a laugh bubbled in Her throat, Her emotions teetering between terror and joy. Their suffering would be over.


Their raft hurled against a wave, and Leila rolled to Her side, crashing into the river below.


Leila gulped and gasped, Her mouth above water, then below. She was bobbing at the side of the raft, one wrist still caught in the rope. The vessel dragged Her through the river, the icy sting like needles piercing Her flesh. She flailed Her one free arm, grasping for the raft, for a rock, for something.


A meaty hand grabbed Hers, and Her heart seized.


Enzo hoisted Her from the waters and flung Her onto the raft.


Leila toppled against the logs, choking and hacking. Aches and pangs racked Her body, but She was alive, saved by a man with no duty to Her. He hoisted Her to Her knees, wrapping the rope thrice around Her bloodied wrists. Thank you. She opened Her mouth to speak it aloud.


And then Enzo was gone, sucked away into the river.


Leila screamed his name, scrambling to free Herself, but Raphael stilled Her hand. Damn him. She shoved him aside, searching the river for Enzo. There. He was splashing and flailing, fighting to grab onto a boulder, but the waves soon pulled him beneath the surface. She spun toward Hylas only to be met with the back of his head as he dove into the river.


“Hylas!”


Her cry dissolved amid the crashing waves, and She reached for the man as if there was still time to catch him. She scrambled across the raft only for Raphael to stop Her, linking his arm with Hers and pulling Her back. No, She couldn’t, wouldn’t leave them behind, but he was guiding—no, dragging Her across the raft, then across rocks, and then onto dark soil.


They’d reached Kovahr, and She’d barely noticed.


Leila didn’t bother to catch Her breath. She ran across the shoreline, knees nearly giving out beneath Her. “Enzo!” She cried. “Hylas!” She would rescue them. They would not be casualties of Her father’s war.


White and grey stretched far ahead, but no brown skin, no fur pelts. “Enzo?” A sob escaped Her lips. “Hylas!”


A man burst from the water—Hylas, black curls plastered to his neck as he gasped for air. He carried someone large, heavy, and stark white.


Leila ran their way, Raphael trailing close behind. Hylas could barely lift Enzo, so Leila and Raphael took each of his arms and hauled him across the shore, sending him flopping against the ground with a wet slap. Leila couldn’t muffle Her cry. He was quickly turning from white to greyish blue, his body limp and still. Hylas dropped to his side, tilting his chin and pressing his lips to his.


The pounding of Leila’s overworked heart consumed Her. She couldn’t lose another comrade. Seconds passed like decades as Hylas breathed into Enzo’s mouth, and suddenly Enzo lurched beneath him, hacking up water like a sputtering spigot.


Leila’s knees buckled, and She collapsed to the snow, each and every pain She’d endured lancing through Her. Halla’s death was on Her hands, but Her allies had been spared.


Hylas searched Enzo’s face. “Are you all right?”


Enzo merely nodded, staring up at Hylas unabashedly. The rise and fall of his chest slowly normalized, and suddenly Leila was out of place, as if observing the two, eyes locked and hands entwined, was an invasion of privacy. Hylas leaned in closer to Enzo, the two breathing as one.


And then he turned and spewed onto the shore, emptying the river water from his stomach.


Leila sank into the rough soil, deadened to the sharp rocks and stabbing twigs. They’d made it. They’d survived. Her breath billowed above Her like white smoke, and She shuddered against the icy air.


They had reached Kovahr.





Leila dragged Her feet across the road. She wasn’t sure how long Her limbs had ached with numbness, but it was long enough for Her to have lost all concept of discretion. Her sopping cloak lay abandoned at the riverbed, and Her holy light, though muted by the grey clouds, was on display.


People in leathers and fur pelts watched Her and the others as they passed, and She didn’t bother to meet their prying gazes. Kovahr was the one ally realm that hadn’t bent to Brontes’s demands. There were no Thessian soldiers here, and if by some chance there were any, She’d faced far worse already. Even the cold wasn’t quite as formidable as She’d anticipated. The snow melted beneath Her footsteps, turning to slush from the heat of Her light.


At another day or time, She might’ve taken in the realm around Her, but it was all She could do to simply walk.


Her eyes bore through the back of Enzo’s head. He was standing, was living, leading the way to the citadel. Hylas strode alongside Leila, as did Raphael, who sometimes interpreted what the passersby were saying. She spoke the language, but Raphael didn’t know that, and She hadn’t the energy to tell him. Instead, She concentrated on each weak step, on the strange tingling of Her limbs and the icy claws of the wind.


This is what victory felt like. Exhaustion. Pain.


The citadel loomed before them, massive and imposing, the obvious home of a warrior queen. It bore a likeness to the castles Leila had seen in historic scrolls, except dark and foreboding with black stone towers reaching toward the sky. Lines of light-skinned men in fur pelts and leathers stood guard in front of the gate, and Enzo barked back and forth with them, swinging his arms as he spoke. Finally, the gate was lowered, and they marched inside, a haggard army of four.


They trudged past rock gardens, sparring squares, and soldiers. The trek was endless, and for a moment Leila wondered if the Kovahrians were mocking Her, sending Her in dizzying circles for their entertainment. But at some point between torture and detachment, Leila stood in the throne room, and the Queen of Kovahr sat before Her.


The queen looked so different than the first time Leila had met her. Her face was heavily adorned with silver hoops and rods hanging from her ears, lancing through her nose, puncturing her eyebrows and chin—far more nahvalya than Enzo wore. Her long brown braid, threaded with scant white hairs, lay over Her shoulder and down Her armored chest, and her legs were tucked neatly beneath a long, olive-green skirt.


Salvation in the form of a woman.


A guard introduced them to the queen in their language. “The Savior of Thessen, along with Her advisors.”


Enzo stepped forward, then dropped to his knee, bowing his head in reverence. “My queen,” he said in Kovahrian. “I have brought gifts.”


Gifts? Leila glanced at Enzo, then his queen. Before She could react, the queen snarled, speaking in the common tongue.


“What the fuck are you doing here?”



OceanofPDF.com

c4XU
    
  


  


Chapter 31

Tobias


Tobias lurched from his place on the floor, pain lancing his body. He barely registered what was happening around him—Pippa’s hands reaching between the bars of her cell, the sandaled feet marching at his side, his bloodied legs dragging across the dirt. The red crest of a helmet flashed in his narrow periphery—soldiers shackling his wrists together, then his ankles, then clamping a collar around his neck, rendering him more animal than man. He’d become a creature, something wretched and unmentionable, and they lugged him up the stairs by the chain linked to his throat as if it were a leash. He didn’t resist. There were too many soldiers, or so he assumed, as his senses were dulled and his vision doubled. Where were they leading him? To his death, perhaps?


The hinges of a door creaked, and a blinding light exploded around him. Leila. She was finally here. But a soldier shoved him, sending him toppling to his hands and knees, and his eyes strained against the bright rays of the sun.


He was outside. For what purpose?


“Move, traitor.”


The soldiers hoisted him to his feet, and he cried out as his open wounds screamed. They hauled him into something tall and wooden—a prison carriage with grated windows, its floor stinking of blood and piss. Tobias could only lay across the wooden slats, reeling as the carriage jostled and jerked over the uneven road.


He wasn’t sure how long they traveled. He drifted in and out of a nightmarish sleep, reliving each broken bone, each lash, each blow. But eventually blaring light awoke him, followed by two soldiers forcing him upright, sending him stumbling to his feet. The air was hot—scorching, even, as if he stood paces away from a wildfire. Soldiers yanked at his chain, ushering him down a pathway surrounded by people, their gazes probing and looming figures strangely haunting. Bloodied pustules dotted their skin, and sweat gleamed against their sunken faces. Tobias’s empty stomach caved in on itself.


The plague had returned.


A soldier tugged at his chain, forcing him forward. Wincing, he staggered onto a dais, the usual site for a herald, except today it was he who would grace the masses. The town was no different than his own, yet it reeked of sickness, of death just a whisper away. He studied the people—gaunt and pox-ridden. His mother and sister were still in Thessen, and the thought that they too could be ill sent his stomach roiling.


A soldier kicked at the back of his legs, dropping him to his knees. He winced past the aches and pangs, then froze, eyes trained on the line of guards. The soldier at his side had a pox on his lip, and he licked it as if he couldn’t stop himself. Nervousness flickered in the man’s eyes. Even Brontes’s troops were sick.


“The Artist has been taken prisoner by our one true sovereign, His Majesty.” A guard came forward, addressing the masses. “Despite His Majesty’s attempts to persuade him, this traitor refuses to speak on the whereabouts of The Savior.” He glared down at Tobias, taking his chain in his hand. “He is determined to keep Her hidden and lay waste to Thessen for his own twisted pleasure.”


Tobias blinked, scanning past the ill to the town around them. Soldiers were mounted at every corner, scouring each shop and pacing the walkways. Brontes’s rule had turned Thessen into a military state. The tree line beyond the town was bare and wilted, the plants languishing beneath the unbearable heat of the sun.


It wasn’t just the people who were affected by Leila’s absence. Everything was dying.


“Dear citizens, compel this blasphemer to speak,” the soldier said. “Make him show us where The Savior is!”


Silence stretched across the town square. Drawn faces watched him, children clung to their parents’ legs, and lovers embraced one another, but no one uttered a word.


The soldier cleared his throat. “Fury often reveals itself in silence. Artist, have you nothing to say of yourself?”


Tobias cringed as the collar dug into the raw flesh of his neck. “Y—” He choked, hacking up crimson. “You need to leave. All of you.”


A fist plowed into his eye, obliterating the world around him. There were only sporadic circles of light and immense pain deep in his skull. A hand wound itself in his hair, holding him upright.


“Worthless prattle. How effortlessly lies spill from his tongue.” The soldier raised his arm in the air, displaying something Tobias couldn’t see. “If we can’t compel him with our words, we shall compel him with our might.”


Tobias’s vision slowly cleared, and the burn of the sun turned stiflingly cold. Soldiers were passing out gifts to the crowd—rocks of various shapes and sizes. Tobias’s knees weakened. They weren’t there to find answers.


They were there to stone him.


“Beneath the power of your throw, the Artist will bend.” The soldier leading the task grinned. “Begin.”


Tobias closed his eyes, bracing himself for the onslaught. He’d been right about one thing—this was his day to die.


A thud echoed in his ears, and Tobias waited for pain that never came. Instead, a weight dropped at his side, followed by an “Oof.” A part of him was scared to look, but he forced his eyes open. A soldier was crouched just paces away from him, cradling his head in his hands.


Another stone shot through the air, and a soldier guarding the pathway whipped to the side, his spear clattering against the ground. Another stone went flying, then another, but none of them were aimed at Tobias.


They were aimed at Brontes’s men.


Stones hurtled across the town square, pelting legs, faces, and armor. A few grazed Tobias, but he was numb to the sensation, stunned as soldiers dropped one by one. “Free Thessen!” the people chanted in unison, a battle cry washing over Tobias like calming waters. “Free Thessen!” And somehow Tobias felt spoken for, as if they were calling for his freedom as well.


A pox-ridden soldier yanked at Tobias’s collar, his eye swelling and mouth bloodied. “Retreat!” he yelled. “Retreat!”


Guards wrested Tobias, dragging him from the dais and shoving him into the prison carriage. Screams cut through the noise—civilians no doubt punished, maybe even killed for their defiance. Before Tobias could look through the grated window, a whip cracked, and the carriage jolted ahead. All the while, stones clattered against its wooden walls, and the people’s war cry faded behind him.


“Free Thessen!”



OceanofPDF.com

c4Z3
    
  


  


Chapter 32

Leila


“You didn’t tell her we were coming?”


Leila paced the stone floor, Her footsteps echoing through the vast chamber. One of the queen’s guards had escorted Her to a sitting room, a cold, dreary place much like the rest of the citadel. She wasn’t particularly concerned about Her accommodations. She was concerned about the man sitting in front of Her—Enzo, his expression blank, even nonchalant. The bastard.


He shrugged. “There is no problem.”


“Oh, there’s a problem, Enzo. There’s a big problem.” Leila stopped pacing. “You said she would lend us her army. You said she sent you.”


“I did not say this.”


“You most certainly did.”


“I said meeting is good for both.” He nodded, casual in a way that boiled Her blood. “If she is as I think, she will say yes.”


“If being the key word here.” Leila harrumphed beneath the gifted furs cloaking Her shoulders. “And right now that if is shaky, seeing as your queen is pissed to shit.”


“She is fine.”


“Really? Is that why she banished you from the throne room? Why we were manhandled by soldiers?” Leila flung Her arms overhead. “For God’s sake, you’re her personal guard. What could you have possibly done to make her so angry?”


Something shifted in Enzo’s gaze. He bowed his head, eyes cast to the floor.


Leila folded Her arms. “What aren’t you telling Me?”


Enzo was quiet for a long while, and Leila tapped Her foot impatiently. “When I was in tournament,” he finally began. “When You show me Your light.” He raised his head but refused to meet Her gaze. “I know then that You are Savior of Thessen.”


“What difference does that make?”


“I come to tournament to spy. To tell her what I see. But . . . I did not tell her all I know.”


The realization hit Her like a gut punch. He hadn’t told the queen of Leila’s true identity.


“Somehow, she know that I know and said nothing,” Enzo continued. “And she . . . how you say . . . iznohnya.”


Exile. Leila’s Kovahrian accent wasn’t polished, but She was nearly fluent, and She certainly knew that word. It seemed like a lifetime ago when She’d first met the Queen of Kovahr, but the encounter filled Her mind, replaying before Her eyes—how the queen had insisted Leila was the true Savior, how She had surmised it through little more than careful observation. Leila’s response replayed in Her thoughts, and She winced.


Or perhaps Enzo told you.


“It’s My fault,” Leila said. “I told her you knew. I just . . . I assumed . . .” She pinched the bridge of Her nose. “I thought you would’ve⁠—”


“I am to blame. I dishonor my realm.” He stood, finally looking Her in the eyes. “I am here to make right.”


His words did little to quell Leila’s guilt. She kneaded Her temples, fighting against a fast-forming headache. “The allegiance between Thessen and Kovahr. Is this your peace offering?”


“If she accepts.”


If. The word picked at Her, reigniting every fear She’d hoped to abandon. Kovahr was supposed to be their salvation, the end of Her long, laborious road. Tobias’s freedom, Her army—all of it was at Her fingertips, and She was helpless as it drifted away.


“I make You much angry,” Enzo said. “I betray Your trust.”


“Seems to be a habit of yours—withholding information.”


“If You must iznohnya me, I understand.”


Enzo remained stoic, but shame and sadness tendrilled from his flesh in the most delicate shade of blue. She almost never made out his colors, and the sight alone was enough to thaw Her hardened heart.


“A proper apology would suffice.”


Enzo dropped to one knee and bowed his head. “Hanzipo Kelziah syetpo. I will be better.”


A gentle rap sounded at the door, and Hylas entered, sending Enzo scrambling to his feet. “Apologies for the intrusion,” Hylas said. “Our chambers are prepared. I’ve requested a private meeting between the queen and Her Holiness and am awaiting her response. For now, she’s agreed to let us stay the night.”


For now. Leila offered a cordial nod. “Thank you.”


Hylas’s eyes flitted between the two of them before he closed the door behind him, and Leila resumed Her pacing. This is a mess. No. It was manageable. She’d spoken to the queen before. Hell, the queen had even claimed to like Leila. More than Brontes, at least. She turned to Enzo, opening Her mouth to speak before stopping short.


Enzo’s gaze was pointed toward the door—and the exact spot Hylas once stood—and his blue tendrils were peppered with pink. Leila might’ve smiled had it not been for their awful circumstances.


“He’s lovely, isn’t he?” She said.


Enzo started. “Who?”


“Hylas.”


“I know not of this Hylas.”


Leila raised an eyebrow. “The man who was in this room just moments ago? Who has been traveling with us for weeks? Who hauled your body from God’s River?”


Enzo didn’t respond, scratching his arm and shifting from foot to foot, restless in a manner Leila wasn’t accustomed to.


“Enzo, are you shy?”


He stiffened and scowled. “I am not shy. You are shy. Pah! Shy.”


Leila stifled a laugh as She sidled up to him. “When you and Zander were . . . together . . . who initiated the⁠—?”


“Fucking?”


Leila faltered. “I suppose that’s one way to put it.”


Enzo avoided Leila’s gaze and resumed scratching the surely nonexistent itch on his arm. “Zander is . . . was very . . . how you say?”


“Charismatic?”


“Yes,” he said. “The ’risma.”


“Well, I think with Hylas, you’re going to have to take the lead.”


“I told You, I know not⁠—”


“Oh, stop it, Enzo.” Leila rolled Her eyes. “I’ve seen your lecherous staring. You’re not particularly discreet.”


His cheeks reddened. “I have other concerns.”


“Yes, and I imagine your heart hasn’t yet opened itself to new opportunities, what with Zander’s passing, bless him so. But your tryst was just a short two weeks.”


Enzo shot Her a glare, and She softened Her tone. “All I’m saying is, you have many years left in your life, and wouldn’t you like to share them with another?” She placed a delicate hand on his back. “Hylas is good, he is unencumbered, and he is here. And he’s practically salivating over you.”


His flush crept down his neck to his chest, and though he remained hardened, the corner of his lips curved into the slightest hint of a smile. She knew that feeling—the lust and excitement, the newness and anticipation. She’d felt it all with Tobias. Something jagged tore into Her heart, but She kept steady, fighting past the cruel and ever-present reminder of what She’d lost.


“These are frightening times. But amidst this chaos, you could have a soft, easy love.” She swallowed Her emotions down. “Don’t let it go to waste.”


Shouting rang out beyond the door, and She flinched. A deep and resonant chant rumbled through the space, loud enough to shake the walls if they weren’t made of stone. Before She could speak, Enzo was clasping his fur mantle and heading for the door.


“Enzo—”


He barreled past Her, throwing the door open and disappearing from view. Leila chased after him only to find the corridor had filled with people, all heavily muscled, layered in furs, and headed in the same direction. Leila immersed Herself in the crowd, jostled between the burly bodies until the ceiling gave way to the dim light of the sky. They’d reached a balcony lined with soldiers, and in its direct center sat their queen, her nahvalya on full display. The noise intensified, and Leila nudged Her way toward the railing, peering out at the madness—a sea of people stretching far into the distance, fists in the air as they roared to their queen. The sound was deafening, a wild, almost primal howling echoing in Her ears and vibrating against Her flesh. It was too familiar, an excerpt from Leila’s life, and She half-expected the grounds below to morph into the palace arena.


Someone let out an “oomph” at Leila’s side. Hylas wriggled between two soldiers, and Raphael was close to follow, straining his eyes as he peered at the commotion below. Leila came in close to them and whispered out of the side of Her mouth, “What is this?”


“I don’t know.” Hylas didn’t so much as blink, hypnotized by the scene. “They just keep chanting, I don’t understand⁠—”


“Aht vhrald,” Raphael translated.


Aht vhrald. Leila heard it then, the words muddled amid the disorder. “The trial.” Her stomach soured. “Is this a hearing?”


“It’s a test.”


The voice startled Leila. A man had appeared at Her side—a soldier, still and unflinching. He had deep brown skin that contrasted the usual Kovahrian pallor, with black locs tied at the nape of his neck and a long, straight scar beneath each of his exposed pecs. He was shorter than Enzo, likely Leila’s height, but his muscled form was like something from a painting, perfectly honed and chiseled, a vision of silent strength.


“A test?” Leila said.


The soldier nodded. “A sacred rite few survive.”


“Sacred?” Raphael wrinkled his nose. “Kovahr has no gods.”


“The art of battle is our faith.”


His words shook Leila. She set Her eyes on the mob below—familiar chaos in a foreign land, a dichotomy She struggled to digest.


“Welcome to Kovahr, Your Holiness.”


The soldier was staring at Her, a small smile on his full lips. She pulled Her furs tighter around Her neck. “You know who I am?”


“The sky is grey, but still You glow,” he said. “Plus, You do not look Kovahrian.” His eyes flitted to Raphael and Hylas. “None of you do.”


Leila shrank, raising Her hood over Her head. She nearly flinched when the soldier turned to Her, his hand outstretched.


“Magnus.” He clasped Her hand and shook it firmly. “High General of the queen’s army.”


Hope flickered in Leila’s chest. “It seems you’re the exact man I’ve been looking for. I need to speak with your queen, and I could greatly use your influence⁠—”


Magnus stopped Her short with a single raised hand. “It is beginning.”


“What’s beginning?” Leila said, but Magnus simply brought his hand closer to Her face. Scowling, She turned to Raphael, who merely shrugged.


“Haven’t a clue.”


“Aren’t you a keeper at the archives?”


“I’m well versed in Kovahrian history, but this . . .” Raphael gazed out at the swarms of people. “This is beyond my studies.”


One of the guards pounded the end of his spear into the floor, and the balcony fell silent. In direct opposition, the masses below roared louder, ravenous for something Leila couldn’t make out. The queen sat casually, basking in the sound of Her people before speaking in her native tongue, “Bring them out.”


The crowd parted, and soldiers escorted a string of bedraggled prisoners shackled to one another, their chains rattling with each step. Onlookers barked and hissed at them as if they were heinous to behold, and some of the prisoners spat and cursed in response.


“Convicts from the Dráhkner dungeon,” Magnus said. “Where we keep our most dangerous criminals.”


“Then why are they here?”


Magnus’s full lips quirked into a smirk. “For the trial, of course.”


“Who accepts the challenge?” the queen intoned, inciting another flurry of shouting. A man burst through the throng, then another, each taking to one knee as they bowed to their queen.


“Challenge?” The word sent Leila’s nerves spiking. “What challenge?”


“The—”


“If you say the trial one more time . . .”


Magnus chuckled, a low, warm sound. “The task is simple. Challengers will be released into the Queen’s Forest, and the prisoners will follow. The challengers must return alive with evidence that all prisoners are defeated.”


“Prisoners who happen to be the most dangerous deviants in the realm of warriors.”


“This is why it is a trial.” Magnus looked Her in the eyes. “Not all are suited for the task.”


His unspoken message was clear—the challenge was a death trap. The Sovereign’s Tournament flashed through Leila’s thoughts, and She winced the vision away. “And what is the purpose of this? Entertainment?”


“This is not Thessen, Your Holiness. Battle is our lifeblood, not our theater.” He stared out at the people below, something akin to pride in his gaze. “If the prisoners defeat their challengers, they’re returned to their cells where they will live another day. But each conquered prisoner means fewer bodies in our dungeons. Empty cells are good for Kovahr and her people.”


“And these challengers,” Leila said. “What do they gain from all of this?”


“The respect of our queen.”


“That’s it?”


Magnus offered Her a curious look. “Would You not extend grace to someone willing to die for You?”


The queen raised a hand, silencing the masses in an instant. “Does no one else accept the challenge?”


The quiet lingered. Three men and one woman were kneeling before their queen, their heads bowed in reverence. Then movement split through the crowd, and another man broke free from the horde.


Enzo.


He looked up at the queen for a long moment, then took his place among the other challengers, dropping to one knee as the crowd roared in approval.


“Hanzipo.” Magnus tutted his tongue. “How far he has fallen.”


Leila’s heart heaved, threatening to send Her catapulting over the balcony railing. She couldn’t lose another comrade. She wouldn’t survive it. But behind that fear loomed another painful reality—Enzo was sacrificing himself for his queen, as if his actions thus far were of no matter.


As if bringing Leila to Kovahr simply wasn’t enough.


The people below stirred. Soldiers escorted the challengers away while the prisoners were taken in the opposite direction. The queen dismissed herself from the balcony, taking her guards with her while Leila stared down at the ground below—and the spot where Enzo had kneeled.


“You’d like a word with our queen?”


Leila flinched. Magnus was staring at Her, the look in his eyes warm and inviting. “Yes,” She said. “Very much so.”


“I can take You to her.”


Raphael’s and Hylas’s expectant gazes weighed heavily on Her. She’d nearly forgotten they were there, too transfixed on Her festering emotions. She turned to Magnus and nodded. “Thank you.”


She gave Raphael and Hylas one last glance before Magnus led Her away, escorting Her down another grey corridor. The entirety of the citadel was various shades of darkness, with slate stone walls, black leather armor, and tapestries depicting silver weapons and stormy skies. Guards pulled open double doors, and She was once again in the throne room standing along a bearskin runner splitting the space down its center. The steel throne was massive, a pewter color depicting animal skulls and tusks, and giant ram’s horns twirled directly above the queen’s head as if her human form was a mere disguise masking the creature within. The queen’s leathers had been removed, and instead she wore a simple green dress laced at the waist with a fur mantle lining her shoulders. Her bountiful piercings were still so foreign to Leila, beautiful in a strange, violent way that left Her both awed and uneasy.


“Come.” The queen beckoned Leila forward. “Finally, we can speak.”


Guards with shaved heads and braided beards lined the room and stood at either side of the queen, bardiches in hand. Magnus nodded toward the throne, a silent encouragement, and Leila continued ahead, taking Her place in the room’s center.


“Your Majesty.” Leila bowed, speaking the queen’s language. “Thank you for your hospitality⁠—”


“Speak Your native tongue,” the queen interrupted. “Your accent, it is close. Very close. But rude. I will not have rude in my throne room.” She folded her hands in her lap. “Come to me. What is it You seek?”


Leila’s face warmed, but She stepped forward, taking root at the foot of the queen’s dais. “I wanted to thank you for your hospitality. We’ve traveled a long way and faced grave dangers to reach your realm.”


“You did not come here to thank me,” the queen said. “You have a request.”


“Still, I aim to show My gratitude. You’ve taken us in without hesitation. You’ve fed and clothed us.”


The queen strummed her fingertips against her armrests. “The request. I am listening.”


“Your Majesty⁠—”


“Pah.” The queen let out a chuckle, waving Leila away with a dismissive flick of her wrist. “Leila, we are equals, are we not?”


Leila faltered. This was very uncustomary, perhaps a sign of camaraderie. They were equals, after all. “Thank you, Prisca.” She bowed Her head. “I’ll start with the simplest matter. I have family and loyalists in hiding. They fear My father’s wrath. If I could bring them here to your proud realm—and ensure their safety—I would be forever grateful.”


“And?” Prisca said.


Leila tensed. “I think we both know why I’m here.”


“We do?” Prisca pursed her lips. “I am so sorry, I do not know this. You must enlighten me.”


“You sent a spy to My father’s tournament. I’m assuming you knew My father had ill intent toward Kovahr—that one day, he would rise against you.”


Prisca sat quietly, devoid of emotion. After a moment’s silence, she shrugged.


“What we face today is far worse,” Leila continued. “My father’s plans surpass Kovahr entirely. He aims to colonize the ally realms and rule as their sole leader. No doubt his hubris exceeds even that. I imagine he intends to expand into the Outlands, or perhaps across the Thalassic Sea.” Her voice climbed higher, severity dripping from Her words. “Do you understand? He is waging war for his own glory. He longs to own whatever land he can conquer.”


“I have heard You.”


Leila squared Her shoulders. “I’ve come here to form an alliance. I’ve come here⁠—”


“You’ve come to request access to my army,” Prisca said.


“For both our benefit. Brontes has already seized control of My realm. Yours is next.” Her insides quaked with anticipation, but Her voice was even, Her carriage tall. “He plotted to frame Kovahr for My death as a means to incite war. That particular plan was foiled, but still he moves forward undeterred. As soon as Thessen is destroyed, he will travel north to conquer your realm.”


Silence filled the space, giving Leila a moment to breathe. As Her nerves calmed, Prisca sputtered out a laugh.


Leila gaped at her. “It’s not funny.” Prisca guffawed louder, and anger bubbled within Leila like boiling water. “Nothing about this is funny.”


Prisca barely managed to compose herself, still rosy cheeked. “It is a little funny.”


The queen’s lingering chuckles ate at Leila, picking at Her already damaged pride. “You mock Me? Does My plight amuse you?” She set Her jaw. “I have traveled thousands of miles. I have battled and suffered and lost greatly just to arrive at your shore. My family and staff are displaced and in hiding. My promised is a prisoner enduring unthinkable torture, if he lives at all.” Emotions of the ugliest colors competed within Her, threatening to erupt. “I am standing here, begging for your assistance. And you sit on your steel throne and laugh at My circumstances.”


A smile blossomed across Prisca’s face, and she leaned back in her seat. “There She is. This is the queen I remember. Fierce.” She pointed a finger Leila’s way. “There is violence inside You. It pleases me to see.”


Leila wasn’t entirely sure how to feel. Should She welcome Prisca’s approval or curse her entirely? Leila swallowed Her vitriol. “Will you aid Me in My quest to defeat My father? To prevent him from laying waste to your realm and My own?” She raised Her chin, willing Herself to be powerful and mighty. “Will you unite with Me for our mutual benefit? To ensure both Kovahr and Thessen remain at peace and under the proper ruling of their individual queens?”


Prisca strummed at her armrests yet again. “You travel many miles to see me, yes?” She eyed Leila up and down. “You look tired and weak.”


“I don’t deny the journey has been laborious.”


Prisca was quiet for a long while, her mind turning behind her eyes. “You and Your allies will be safe in my citadel. Your, eh, displaced staff. They come here as well. We have plenty of space. The queen’s people will know the welcoming arms of Kovahr.”


Relief washed over Leila. Her lungs expanded in a deep breath, and Her limbs loosened like warm butter. “Thank you for your generosity, Prisca.” She bowed Her head. “And your army?”


Prisca looked Leila hard in the eyes, a moment of connection, of understanding. She rested her hands in her lap.


“That, I’m afraid, I cannot give to You.”


The words were a boulder launched from a catapult, hurtling Leila’s way. “You wouldn’t be giving Me your army. You would be fighting for the freedom of both the Thessian and Kovahrian people.”


Prisca gestured to the room around them. “As You can see, Kovahr is very much free already.”


“Not for long. Brontes’s army is vast. He has accumulated countless sellswords, has them hidden in secrecy somewhere in northern Thessen⁠—”


“Numbers do not matter,” Prisca said. “Kovahr is the realm of warriors. One of my soldiers has the skill and strength of ten sellswords.”


The boulder sank into Leila’s gut. “You significantly underestimate My father’s will.”


“Perhaps You are right.” Prisca offered another dismissive shrug. “We will find out when he dares to reach my border, eh?”


Leila’s rage awakened, rattling Her insides. How could She have gone from swift relief to utter despair in a single moment? Her mind raced, grasping for something, anything of influence. “Tobias rots in a cell while you sit idly by.” Her hands shook despite Her will. “Have you no care for what comes of him? You favored him, did you not?”


Prisca offered a sad smile. “I like Your Tobias. But I like my people more.”


“God, you are fucking unbelievable.”


“Young queen, I offer Your family shelter.”


“While My people die,” Leila spat. “Are we not allies, Thessen and Kovahr?”


“According to Your father, no. Not anymore.”


“Brontes doesn’t speak for Thessen,” Leila hissed. “I do.”


A small smirk played at Prisca’s lips. “Then why is it that he sits upon Your throne and leads Your troops, while You are here, tired and weak?”


There it was—all hope dashed in an instant. She’d given everything She had with nothing to spare, and still it hadn’t been enough. The irreverence in Prisca’s tone was as brutal as her words, confirming fears Leila had long grappled with. Perhaps She wasn’t fit to rule Thessen. Perhaps She was a failure through and through, doomed from birth—cursed as a woman born in death, the offspring of a wicked man.


“You would punish Me for the sins of My father, when I stand here, offering allegiance and loyalty. When I fight to save not only My land, but yours as well.” Leila didn’t hide Her rage, the venom on Her tongue a sweet release. “You would demean My title in My lowest moment and let countless die solely because of your wretched pride. The realm of warriors needs no assistance, yet you have no idea what’s coming your way.” It was Her turn to eye Prisca up and down, and Her lip curled with disgust. “I thought I’d seen the worst of man within My palace. Perhaps I was mistaken.”


Prisca didn’t move, though something sour shifted in her gaze. “Prepare the accommodations for the queen’s guests. Escort Her to Her chambers. We are finished.”


The guards came forward, but Leila didn’t need their assistance. She turned on Her heel, abandoning the Kovahrian queen while the weight of Her loss crashed down on Her.



OceanofPDF.com

c54J
    
  


  


Chapter 33

Tobias


Muffled shouting rang out overhead, and stomping feet sent dust billowing from the rafters. Tobias didn’t move, didn’t so much as flinch. Brontes had been gone for some time, but he’d returned, and given the noise above, he was angry.


The door to the dungeon swung open, and Tobias braced himself instinctually, pressing his back to the cell bars. The wooden steps creaked beneath a hurried stride, and Wembleton waddled into view, nestling himself into a dank corner of the room.


Tobias scoffed under his breath. Sweat beaded along the senator’s forehead, his cheeks bright red, flushed with fear. Wembleton fussed with his fuchsia drape as if to busy his hands before casting a sidelong glance Tobias’s way. “And what exactly are you looking at?”


Wembleton’s scowl washed over him, though Tobias couldn’t be bothered. He lay in a haggard heap on the floor, yet he stood miles taller than the senator, and nothing could convince him otherwise. “I’m surprised, is all.” He mustered a shrug. “Thought Brontes would’ve killed you by now.”


Wembleton let out a derisive snort before looking away, resuming his fiddling. A loud bang shook the ceiling, and the senator jumped and yelped. Brontes must’ve thrown something, and given Wembleton’s reaction, it was a common occurrence.


“I take it he heard,” Tobias said. “About the stoning gone awry.”


Wembleton didn’t respond, eyes trained on the stairwell. Perhaps Tobias should’ve been scared too. He knew the depths of Brontes’s ire well. But his body was too worn to move, and the sovereign’s humiliation brought Tobias the first hint of satisfaction he’d felt in days.


“Is his plan not unfolding as intended?” Tobias’s voice came out slow, as speaking had become draining. “The people aren’t as easily fooled as he’d assumed them to be. They don’t believe in him. They believe in their Savior.”


Wembleton bristled. “That woman is a foul and cruel creature.”


“Was She mean to you?”


He met Tobias’s gaze. “In ways you couldn’t even imagine.”


“Is that, by chance, because you were trying to kill Her?”


Wembleton’s nostrils flared, but he said nothing. Tobias would’ve smirked if his jaw wasn’t so swollen. His gums had scabbed over in the three places his teeth used to be, and he’d stopped trying to open his right eye for some time. The warden had brought him water and bread the day before, but it had done little more than keep starvation at bay. The dungeon and its horrors had turned his body into a burden. It didn’t belong to him anymore, yet he suffered its wrath all the same.


The shouting ceased, and in its place came fast, deliberate footsteps. Tobias’s nerves spiked. As the footfalls grew louder, Wembleton cracked a smile.


“Someone’s about to get in an awful lot of trouble.”


The door flung open and Brontes charged down the steps. Tobias sprang to life, scrambling along the dirt floor until his back slammed against the wall, but Brontes had already unlocked his cell, was standing right in front of him. There wasn’t time to prepare, to fight, to flee. Brontes’s fist went flying, and pain exploded through Tobias’s jaw, toppling him face first to the ground.


A hand raked through his hair and hoisted him upright by the roots, and he cried out. Brontes jabbed at his chin, his nose, his already swollen eye, then thrust him against the cell bars. The world had gone black around Tobias, but he could feel everything—the punch to his gut, the desperation of his empty lungs, the throbbing of his open wounds. He was the sovereign’s plaything, a target for his frustrations, and Tobias could do nothing but howl and hack as each blow marked his mangled body.


Tobias dropped to the ground, and a foot plowed into his ribs repeatedly. The seconds slowed, and his mind became distant and foggy, as if he weren’t connected to his body—as if he was watching his torture from beyond, more spectator than participant. He’d never known such a beating—cruel and unrelenting, a deluge of aggression devoid of purpose. With a grunt, Brontes rolled Tobias onto his back, then stomped on his forearm. The sharp crack of his bone awakened Tobias, and he let out a scream so inhuman, he was certain his transformation was complete—that he was a creature, the helpless prey Brontes so desperately needed him to be.


Brontes stepped back and let out a long sigh. His task was complete, his temper properly managed, and he slammed and locked the cell door behind him. Still, Tobias lay across the dirt floor, consumed by the agony of each broken bone, every pulsing welt, the gashes upon gashes cutting through his flesh. The ground beneath him was sticky and wet, and his body was the same—painted crimson. He wasn’t a man nor a creature. He was nothing.


A light touch broke through the pain. Pippa reached through the bars of her cell, grazing his fingertips with her own. He coughed and convulsed, blood sputtering from his lips, and Pippa’s whimpering made the pain all the more severe. She knew what was happening, and so did he. He’d been fighting it for days, but at that moment it stared him blankly in the face, a looming shadow he couldn’t ignore. He fought for a deep breath only to wince, then resigned himself to his fate. Leila wasn’t coming.


He would die in this dungeon.



OceanofPDF.com

c55
    
  


  




OceanofPDF.com

c55K
    
  


  


Chapter 34

Leila


White blanketed the thicket of leafless trees. Leila had never seen snow before Her arrival in Kovahr, and though it was beautiful to look at, She didn’t particularly care for it. Everything was cold and wet, and it didn’t help that Her light melted the powder beneath Her feet, leaving puddles and slush in Her wake. She pulled Her furs tighter across Her chest, fighting for warmth while ignoring the prying eyes pointed Her way. The trial was about to begin, and though She’d begged him to reconsider, Enzo hadn’t changed his mind. He sat atop his steed alongside the other challengers, ready and waiting in front of the Queen’s Forest.


The crowd parted as Prisca arrived, her cape dragging behind her and snowflakes glittering in her braided hair. She stopped in front of each challenger one at a time, and the men and woman took turns relinquishing their weapons to her. Enzo did the same, pulling his sword and scabbard from his hip, then unsheathing two hooked blades from his thigh.


“Wait,” Leila whispered, nerves skittering beneath Her flesh. “What is he doing?”


Magnus stood at Her side, locs hanging freely down his shoulders. “What he must.”


“Can you just answer My⁠—?”


“All challengers must complete the task unarmed,” Magnus said.


A muffled laugh broke through the quiet. One of the ten shackled criminals smiled, exposing a mouthful of crooked teeth, an axe firmly in his grip. In fact, all the prisoners were armed, and though their blades were dirtied and rusted, they appeared viable.


Leila’s throat went tight. “But the prisoners have weapons.”


Magnus nodded. “Indeed.”


“How is that fair?”


“The trial isn’t about fairness.” His dark eyes met Hers. “It’s about greatness.”


A horn blew in the distance, and Enzo bolted into the Queen’s Forest alongside the other challengers, swiftly disappearing from view. Minutes passed before the prisoners were unshackled, and they too sprinted into the forest like starved beasts hunting their prey. Leila’s stomach clenched, and She wasn’t sure if the shudder crawling down Her spine was from the cold or Her fear.


“I fucking hate this place.”


She turned on Her heel, abandoning the crowd as She festered in Her own frustration. Coming to Kovahr was a mistake. The realm was heinous, but then again so was Trogolia, and even Her own beloved Thessen had disappointed Her. Perhaps there wasn’t a single place in existence that Leila didn’t loathe.


Guards lowered the citadel gate, and Leila stormed inside. If only there was a door to slam or a window to smash, some helpless object to absorb the brunt of Her anger. How She ached for something to hit, to inflict pain rather than feel it. Her chamber appeared ahead, and She quickened Her stride, a furious scream building in Her throat, begging for release.


She threw open Her door, then staggered to a halt. A handful of guards stood at Her bedside with Raphael and Hylas waiting beside them, and She forced Her ire inward.


“Leila.” Raphael’s voice was flat, but something nervous flitted in his eyes. “It’s time.”


Leila sighed. She’d met with Delphi the night prior to orchestrate Her staff’s arrival to the citadel, and unlike their first extraction, the planning had been smooth, even easy. Even so, dread pooled in Her gut, slowing Her steps. Begrudgingly, She tossed Her fur mantle onto the bed, then Her wool coat. She’d only be in Thessen for a short while, but the climate was considerably warmer, and She had to be prepared. How She wished the shift in weather were the only obstacle waiting for Her.


“Are You ready?” Raphael said.


Leila’s jaw flexed, and She eyed the guards sidelong. “Not particularly, but it must be done.”


“Do You know what You’re going to say?”


She ground Her teeth. She’d met with Delphi several times since Her departure from the brothel, but it would be Her first time seeing Naomi and Yucana. How would they react? Tobias was imprisoned, and Leila was to blame.


“I’ve practiced a thousand times and still feel lost.”


“We’ll be here.” Raphael took a soldierly stance as if to lend Her his strength. “Whatever You need.”


Leila nodded. “Thank you.”


Hylas remained uncharacteristically silent, eyes flitting between Leila and the window. The Queen’s Forest loomed beyond the thick glass panel, and though it was impossible to see through the dense trees, She knew exactly who Hylas was searching for. No doubt he would’ve preferred to have seen Enzo off, but he was tasked with organizing Her staff’s arrival. The fear in his gaze stirred Her already overwrought insides, and She resisted the urge to curse aloud. The day had only just begun, and it was already too much to bear. Holding Her breath, Leila summoned Her light, swiftly dissolving amid the flames of Her power.


The torturous heat disappeared too quickly, and She soon stood within a familiar, cozy chamber. The air was warm, thick, and scented with honey and citrus, an inviting atmosphere that failed to soothe Her piqued nerves.


“Sister.”


Two arms looped around Her, pulling Her from Her thoughts. She stiffened in Delphi’s embrace, then started when Her sister released Her and took Her cheeks in her palms. Delphi frowned. “Took You long enough.”


“I had matters to tend to.”


“Matters more important than this?”


Enzo flashed through Leila’s mind. “You’d be surprised.” A second pair of eyes met Hers, familiar in their blackness, and bile rose up Leila’s throat. “Hello, you.”


Naomi sat beside Delphi in her usual cart, her wavy hair braided and legs neatly tucked under a blanket. Leila braced Herself, prepared for an onslaught of tears, or vitriol, or some other brand of grief.


“It’s so good to see You.” Naomi chuckled, looking to Delphi. “I understand why You love Your sister so much. She’s been such a gem.”


Leila’s lips parted, but She didn’t speak. Laughter wasn’t what She had expected at all. She shook Herself, wrangling composure. “That’s strange. She’s usually a pain in the ass to Me.”


Naomi laughed while Delphi swatted Leila’s arm, the two women carefree in ways Leila couldn’t comprehend.


“I can’t wait to see Tobias,” Naomi said. “Is he well?”


The air around Leila became starkly cold, as if the winds of Kovahr had traveled with Her. Naomi didn’t know. Leila cleared Her throat, hoping Her shock wasn’t clear on Her face. “Time is of the essence. We’ll discuss everything once we’re safely in the citadel.” She looked to Delphi. “Where is everyone?”


Delphi held up a finger, then pounded on the adjacent wall. “Ladies!” she called out.


The chamber door burst open, and a flood of mostly women hurried into the space, taking up what little room remained. Some bowed to Leila while others offered Her hugs She could barely feel. Her eyes went straight to Yucana, who entered amid the servants without a word, and though her expression wasn’t particularly soft, it lacked the rancor Leila had anticipated. None of it made sense.


Delphi nudged Leila in the ribs, ending Her trance. She straightened and raised Her chin. “Everyone, hold tight to your belongings, and take one another’s hands. We all must be connected. No one can be left behind.”


Everyone did as they were instructed, save for one woman and man. Sabine stood in the doorway, her arms folded and a smile in her eyes, and Ladon waited at her side, offering Leila a small wave.


“Thank you for taking care of them,” Leila said.


Sabine nodded. “Good luck, Your Holiness. And to hell with the sovereign.”


“But wait,” Ladon added. “Have You met many Kovahrian soldiers?” He waggled his eyebrows. “What do they smell like?”


“No.” A small body plowed between them—Isa, a familiar scowl plastered across their face. They pointed a finger Leila’s way. “You’re leaving now.” They gestured at the swarm of servants. “And take them with You.”


Leila resisted the urge to roll Her eyes. She took Delphi’s and Naomi’s hands, and Her vision flashed white, Her body overtaken by holy light.


A chill wafted across Her flesh, marking Her arrival. She and the others stood in Her citadel chamber, the space larger and far more accommodating for their numbers. Hylas, Raphael, and the line of guards stood near the doorway, making room for their advent. If the Kovahrian soldiers were surprised by Her magic, they didn’t show it.


“Welcome to the Kovahrian citadel. The queen is aware of your arrival and invites you into her home with open arms.” Leila spoke with intention, but Her hands shook when She gestured toward the doorway. “If you follow these men, they will show you to your chambers.”


The servants bowed before taking leave, marveling at the foreign sights around them while Delphi nestled up beside Leila, linking their arms. Leila could barely feel her touch. She was fixated on Naomi and Yucana, still turning over their reactions.


“You’ve done well, Leila.” Delphi bumped Her hip. “Your people are safe because of You.”


Leila’s gut churned. “Not all of them.” Tobias lingered in the forefront of Her mind, an ever-present misery. Naomi and Yucana spoke amongst one another, curiously eyeing the fur pelts covering Leila’s bed, unburdened in ways She envied. “Do they not⁠—?”


“Heralds came to town and announced Tobias’s capture,” Delphi said. “But Your staff couldn’t bear to tell them. Not when they’d endured so much already.”


Leila bit back a flood of vulgarities. Their ignorance was both the best and the worst news. They’d been spared the hell She’d withstood for weeks, yet it was Her obligation to break their hearts.


“I can stay with You if You’d like.” Delphi lowered Her voice to a whisper. “We can tell them together.”


“Go.” Leila’s voice came out harsher than She’d intended. “I’ll be fine.”


Delphi hesitated before nodding, taking leave with the other servants. Soon, all who remained with Her were Raphael, Hylas, and the two Kaya women headed Her way. If it weren’t for propriety, Leila would’ve spewed Her stomach’s contents across the floor.


Naomi opened her mouth to speak, then stopped short, eyes panning past Leila entirely. “Hello, Raphael.”


The man went rigid, as if prepared for a blow. He frowned. “Don’t you mean the mouth?”


She winced the slightest bit, then cleared her throat. “It’s good to see you.” She offered him a small smile. “I’m glad you’re all right.”


An awkward silence stretched between them as Raphael stared at her, visibly stunned. “Thank you,” he finally said.


“Where’s Tobias?” Yucana’s voice cut through the tension, a dagger to Leila’s insides. She craned her neck, peering past the group. “It’s been so long. He didn’t come to welcome us?”


Leila’s breakfast bubbled up Her throat, and She swallowed it down, fighting for composure that never came. “Tobias isn’t here right now,” She managed to say.


Yucana furrowed her brow. “I can see that. When will he return? I’d like to see my son.”


Leila’s breathing wavered. How was She supposed to deliver this blow? She’d fought and killed men for years, yet this type of cruelty was foreign to Her, too foul to entertain. These two women had done nothing to deserve such pain. Leila searched for words but couldn’t find them, certain She’d shatter the moment She opened Her mouth.


“Our journey to Kovahr was trying,” Raphael stepped in. “Brontes made it nearly impossible to reach the northern shore.”


“I’m not sure how that’s relevant,” Yucana said.


“Is Tobias hurt?” Naomi asked.


Leila’s body betrayed Her; Her mouth refused to speak, Her lungs refused to breathe, and Her damn heart couldn’t stop racing. Hylas glanced Her over, then cleared his throat before interjecting. “The sovereign followed us to Trogolia. He closed all the borders. We were trapped for weeks. It was very grim indeed.”


Something shifted in Yucana’s gaze, the air around her dark, almost threatening. “Where is my son?”


Hylas stammered, “P-please, if you’d just allow us to explain⁠—”


“We needed Brontes to remove his troops from Trogolia,” Raphael said. “It was the only way we’d reach Kovahr and seek their asylum. In order to achieve that, we had to divert his attention. Provide a distraction.”


Yucana’s eyes narrowed. “What are you saying?”


The pounding of Leila’s heart echoed behind Her ears, a drumbeat counting down each second of silence. This was Her duty, not Raphael’s, nor Hylas’s.


“Tobias is being held prisoner by Brontes,” She said. “He sacrificed himself to save us. To save Thessen.”


Yucana and Naomi stared back at Her, a steady stream of emotion flashing in their eyes—shock, sadness, anger. Leila dug Her nails into the meat of Her palms, eager for the sharp sting to overtake Her focus. Maybe Her hands would bleed. Maybe She’d die right there in that moment, freeing Herself from whatever was about to transpire.


Yucana hadn’t so much as blinked since Leila had last spoken. She took in a slow, even breath. “My son is dead.”


“He’s not.” Leila’s voice caught. “He’s under Brontes’s⁠—”


“You killed him. You abandoned my child and left him to die.”


A blow landed in Leila’s chest, knocking the air clean from Her lungs. There they were—the words that would surely end Her. Perhaps She should’ve said something, but Her voice had been smothered by Her overwhelming shame.


“Leila was the last person who wanted this,” Hylas said. “The whole plan was Tobias’s idea⁠—”


“I knew this day would come. That You’d ruin him.” Yucana’s eyes locked with Leila’s, a searing glare. “You are a curse to this land and a curse to my son. His blood is on Your hands.”


Raphael pressed a hand to Yucana’s shoulder. “Ms. Kaya, Tobias is very much alive.”


“For how long?” Yucana ripped herself free. “How long until Her father kills him like all the others?”


“When did this happen?” Naomi cried at her mother’s side. “Why didn’t You tell us?”


Tears streaked her cheeks, her anguish too much for Leila to bear. “We’re going to rescue him,” She choked out, Her voice meager. “As soon as we secure an army⁠—”


“He loved You,” Yucana spat. “Sacrificed everything for You. And this is how You repay him.” Malice coated her words, and she pointed a sharp finger Leila’s way. “You truly are Your father’s daughter.”


“Please, Yucana,” Raphael said. “Leila is grieving just as you are.” But Yucana had already taken the handle of Naomi’s cart and was steering her toward the door. “Where are you going?”


“Anywhere She is not,” Yucana hissed.


“Mother, we can’t.” Naomi looked back at the others, eyes wide and stricken with terror. “Where is he? When will we rescue him?” She looked to her mother. “Please, we need answers!”


“We’re done here. I can’t stand the sight of Her.”


“Yucana,” Leila called out.


The woman stopped short at the doorway, turning to Leila one last time. She was barricaded, visibly restrained in a way Leila knew well, but the glistening of her eyes revealed her pain.


“Don’t ever speak to me or my family again.”


Leila didn’t respond. There was nothing to say, nothing to do but watch as the Kaya women left Her chamber. Everything within Her threatened to revolt—Her tears fighting their way to the surface, Her frenzied thoughts and shaking limbs. When did Kovahr become so unbearably hot?


A soft hand pressed against Leila’s back. “Are You all right?” Raphael asked.


Leila swallowed the thickness of Her throat, then cocked Her head toward the doorway. “Go with them. Make sure they’re . . .” A sob threatened to cut through Her voice, so She went silent. Raphael did as he was instructed while She remained rooted in place, eyes trained on the floor.


“She’s angry, Leila. That’s all.” Hylas hovered close, taking one of Her hands in his. “Nothing she said is true.”


Her fingers trembled, and She pulled away from him. “Please.” Her voice nearly broke. “I need to be alone.”


Icy blue plumed from his shoulders. Leila couldn’t handle his sadness, but even worse was his pity. He bowed. “I’ll be in my chamber if You need me.”


The door closed behind him, and it was only then that Leila sucked in a rasping breath. Her frenzied insides were ignited, no longer suppressed by Her need for control, and Her knees nearly buckled as She took a seat on Her bed. She clasped Her hands over Her mouth, catching the sob She’d been fighting against, Her body convulsing and rocking with Her falling tears. She was lost, adrift in a realm She didn’t know, Her resources sucked dry and hope long buried. Pain was a companion She knew well, but Her past struggles had failed to prepare Her for the endless grief of failure.





Leila wasn’t sure how long She hid in Her chamber, crying into Her pillow like a pathetic mess. Her weakness was embarrassing, truly, but She couldn’t fight the onslaught of emotion. At some point Her throat had gone hoarse from howling, Her nose raw and eyes swollen. She’d run dry of tears for the time being, so She spent the remainder of Her day sitting by the window, watching the Queen’s Forest.


Three bodies had been pulled from the forest since She first took Her perch, and given the attention they’d received, She was inclined to believe they were challengers. That meant only two challengers remained—the woman who had volunteered and Enzo.


A fourth body was carried from the forest, and Leila gasped. The corpse was headless. She pressed Her hands to the cold glass, searching the far-off body only to fog up the window with Her breath. She dragged Her sleeve across the moisture frantically, then heaved a sigh of relief. The body had breasts. That meant Enzo was maybe, possibly still alive.


The sky had begun to darken. It seemed the sun set earlier in Kovahr than in Thessen, but that didn’t calm Leila’s anxieties. How long has it been? How many prisoners remain? Come nightfall, She wouldn’t be able to see if Enzo survived or perished. Before Her thoughts could fully spiral, the trees rustled, and a man sprang free from them, collapsing to his knees in the snow.


Enzo.


Leila jumped from Her seat and flew from Her chamber, racing through each corridor before bounding down the citadel stairwell. Just as She reached the gate, it opened, and Enzo hobbled inside, a makeshift sack made of torn fabric in one hand, his other hand pressed to his gut. Blood trailed his footsteps, but he continued ahead, stoicism etched across his face.


Leila hurried his way. “Enzo!”


He didn’t respond, passing Her entirely and turning down a familiar hallway. Slashes marked his arms and tore through his tunic, but whatever afflicted his stomach seemed to be the worst of it. Leila followed him into the throne room where Prisca sat amid her steel bones, relaxed in ways that vexed Leila. According to Magnus, she was to sit there until the trial’s end, waiting for the final challenger, if any, to return.


Grunting, Enzo tossed his sack to the floor, and severed fingers scattered across the tile.


“My queen,” he said in his language, taking to one knee. “My trial has ended.”


Prisca eyed Enzo for a long while before turning her attention to the severed fingers. There were ten of them, either carved off by Enzo or the other deceased challengers. Ten fingers for ten prisoners. Prisca bowed her head.


“You have fought well and are worthy of honor,” she said.


“Then I ask, humbly, for your forgiveness and blessing to return to my station.”


Leila held Her breath. Enzo’s voice was even and unfeeling, as if he weren’t steadily bleeding onto the bearskin runner. Prisca studied him for a long while before finally speaking.


“You have my blessing.” She cocked her head toward the doorway. “Tend to your wounds.”


Leila stood frozen, stunned by the display. She wasn’t sure what She had expected, but it wasn’t that. Prisca had been so disagreeable during their encounters, stubborn to her own detriment. But there She sat poised and at ease, acquiescing plainly. Enzo hobbled past Leila, ending Her spell, and She hurried after him.


“Enzo, you must allow Me to heal you.” She grabbed hold of his biceps, stopping him. “Please.”


He looked down at Her hand before looking Her in the eyes, the brief contact enough to thaw a fraction of Her heart. The severity of his pain pulsed past his flesh, stirring Her light, but what hurt most was the ache in his gaze, no longer hidden behind a wall of bravado. He nodded, and together they followed a line of guards to the infirmary.


The citadel healers made quick work of cleaning and bandaging Enzo’s lesions, but Leila focused Her light on the crater in his stomach. The wound was deep and seeping, and when She touched it, Her own gut throbbed as if impaled. He sat still, waiting silently as Her light worked, and all the while Her thoughts tossed and turned. Enzo was alive. Tobias was imprisoned. His mother and sister hated Her. She had no army. She tried to shake the endless prattle from Her mind, but the voices ate away at Her, threatening to steal Her sanity.


“You must be happy.” Leila ended the long silence, hands firmly planted to Enzo’s marred flesh. “Your queen has forgiven you.” The reality of Her statement struck Her abruptly. “I imagine when all this is over, you’ll choose to stay here in Kovahr.”


Leila’s stomach hollowed. Of course he would. She’d known that for weeks. But the thought of him eventually leaving Her side pained Her in a way She hadn’t anticipated. Was there to be any permanence in Her life?


“You didn’t have to do that.” Her voice sharpened. “Risking your life for Prisca’s favor. It’s silly. There was no guarantee she’d honor your request.”


“My queen has much honor,” Enzo said. “All who accept the trial earn her respect. Even those who do not survive.”


The dead bodies pulled from the forest flashed through Leila’s mind, namely the woman cut clear at the throat. She forced back a shudder. “And it would’ve been worth it for you? To die for her respect?”


Enzo’s slate eyes panned to Leila, his answer clear before he even spoke. “She had to hear me. It was the only way.”


Leila sat up straight. His words stilled Leila’s frantic mind and released the firm grip on Her lungs. Everything had become so clear, so simple. In an instant, a fire ignited in Her chest, burning past Her fear and despair.


She knew what She had to do.


“You’ll have to excuse Me.” She stood, turning to the nearby healers and gesturing toward his no longer seeping wound. “He’ll need stitches,” She said in Kovahrian.


She didn’t wait for a response before tearing from the infirmary. Enzo’s blood still coated Her hands, but She relished the familiar sensation, welcoming carnage into Her reality. Finally, She had an answer. Her heartbeat thrummed, a steady rhythm that fueled Her, reawakening Her resolve.


Leila burst into the throne room, startling the scant guards at its entrance. Prisca had risen from her throne, lost in conversation with some of her soldiers, and she started upon Leila’s arrival.


“Leila.” A hint of a smirk graced her lips. “I was not expecting⁠—”


“When is it?” Leila stopped at the dais, bloodied fists balled at Her sides. “When’s the next trial?”


One of Prisca’s guards stepped forward, his sword drawn, but she halted him with a raised hand. “It is a tradition. Every fortnight⁠—”


“You’ll hold it sooner,” Leila said. “As early as possible. A special exception in honor of your Thessian guests.”


Prisca let out an appreciative laugh. “I will, will I?”


“When’s the earliest you can manage it?”


“Three days. Maybe two.”


Fuck. That was too long. Leila nodded. “Make it so.”


“I am to take orders from You now?” Prisca raised an eyebrow. “In my throne room?”


“This trial will be known far past the confines of Kovahr,” Leila said. “Your power and influence will be spoken of for centuries, your legacy everlasting in the history of our ally realms.” Power quaked within Her, a keen determination burning straight to Her core. “This trial will mark you as the Queen of queens.”


Prisca folded her arms. “And why is that?”


The fire within turned into a raging blaze, threatening to consume Her whole. No doubt this was the single most ludicrous idea She’d ever concocted, but it was Her last chance, Her final hope.


The only way. She would make the queen hear Her.


“Because I am accepting the challenge.”



OceanofPDF.com

c5AN
    
  


  


Chapter 35

Tobias


Tobias’s eyes fluttered open, and he winced past a blinding light. Slowly, the brightness took form into something tangible—a familiar silhouette with subtle curves and long, dark hair.


“Leila?”


She sat at his side, Her naked body beaming like the rays of the sun. “There you are.” She smiled, running a hand through his curls. “My darling.”


He beheld Her for a long while, reveling in Her soft touch. “You’ve rescued me.”


She laughed as if his words were nonsensical. It was only then that he took in the space around him—a vast chamber with cream walls lined in gold molding and stately marble columns leading to an expansive flower garden. He lay in a large bed with crisp white sheets bundled at his waist, and he hoisted himself up onto his elbows, sinking into the plush mattress.


“Where are we?”


“We’re home, of course,” Leila said.


“We don’t have a home.”


She chuckled again, shaking Her head. His skin was smooth and unmarked, his frame solid and painless. He couldn’t remember the last time he’d felt so clean, so whole.


“Maybe it was all just a bad dream.”


“Stay with Me.” She cupped his cheek. “Don’t ever leave.”


She was a whisper away, and he closed the space between them, pressing his lips to Hers. The warmth of Her light swept through him in waves, washing away the horrors from his mind. She threaded Her arms around him, sifted Her hands through his hair, and he relished each delicate sensation, basking in Her presence. He kissed Her again, savoring the sweetness of Her lips before pulling away, taking in the blazing yellow of Her eyes.


Red. It glistened behind Her, reflecting the light of Her glow. Streams of the color dripped down the wall, covering the surface in a slow-moving river.


“What is that?”


“Paint, My darling,” Leila said. “From your beautiful picture.”


A foul chill carried through Tobias. Blood leaked through the ceiling and slid down the wall’s surface before puddling on the floor. Leila looped an arm around him, nuzzling closer as She eyed the macabre spectacle in awe.


“You painted it just for Me.”


Her voice had become far away, as had Her touch. Blood consumed the bedchamber, consumed him, until it coated his flesh, poured free from his throat, and flowed between his fingers.


Tobias opened his eyes, and pain splintered through him like daggers, leaving no part of his body unspoiled. The smell of must and sweat filled his nostrils, and his breathing was shallow, his lungs refusing to expand. He lay sprawled out on the dungeon floor as he had for God knew how long. He licked his lips, trying to taste Leila, but She was gone, a ghost from his dreams.


He wasn’t sure when Brontes had left him there to die. Minutes, maybe days. Time slipped away from him as he drifted in and out of consciousness. How long had he been asleep? He remembered blackness, an all-encompassing void he’d nearly lost himself to. But he’d returned to reality and the hurt it provided.


Hinges creaked, followed by clomping footsteps. The warden. Tobias recognized his stride, how the ground rumbled beneath his weight. His instincts told him to run, to scream, but his body refused to move, his limbs ungoverned by his bidding. The masked man crouched beside Tobias, craning into his line of sight. “Can you eat, Your Highness?”


Tobias stared into the man’s small eyes. Hatred swelled within him, numbing a fraction of his pain. It was good to feel something real—something other than the constant shadow of death.


“Can you swallow?”


Still, Tobias didn’t answer, couldn’t answer, but the warden didn’t waste time waiting. Dropping to his knees, he hoisted Tobias onto his lap, sending him cringing and coughing as pangs ripped through him. The warden brought a skin to Tobias’s lips, and he gulped its contents down, the warm, stale water the most delicious taste he’d ever known. The skin was empty far sooner than he’d hoped, and the warden pulled out three blue vials from his pocket—purgar, Leila’s holy gift. He drained each vial down Tobias’s throat, and Tobias choked on the elixir.


“Keep it down.” The warden manually closed Tobias’s jaw. “It will make you stronger.”


The metallic taste of blood coated Tobias’s tongue, and he mustered all his energy to simply swallow. The warden hovered over Tobias, staring down at him with an inspecting gaze.


“Your pain is considerable.”


Tobias would’ve laughed if he could, but he lay still, willing his hateful gaze to speak for him. The warden’s eyes panned up and down Tobias, taking in each gash and wound.


“Brontes has left the stronghold. Your punishment will be avoided for several days.”


Perhaps Tobias should’ve felt relieved, but in his current state, Brontes’s absence mattered little. Was there enough purgar to survive the night? It was hard to imagine when everything within him was threatening to fail.


“Would you like to sleep?”


The warden pulled a vial from his pocket—a fine yellow powder Tobias didn’t recognize, yet he craved it all the same. He tried to speak but merely wheezed.


“I must know that you still possess the will to live. That you won’t succumb to sleep forever.” The warden’s tone had shifted and become stern, almost fearful. “Many become tempted by the peace this herb brings. I need to know you will awaken. That you strive to see your love again.”


I’m already dying. But Tobias didn’t want that. He couldn’t succumb, not yet.


“Do you want to live?” the warden repeated. “Yes or no?”


Another cough sputtered from Tobias’s lips, so he abandoned the idea of speaking. Instead, he fought to move his head, summoning every ounce of his remaining strength to nod. The masked man pressed at the vial’s opening, coating his fingertip in yellow, then rubbed the herb across Tobias’s gums. The taste was potent, almost acidic, and Tobias’s eyelids grew heavy within seconds.


“Rest well, Your Highness.” But the warden soon disappeared with the cell around them, as Tobias’s world dissolved into darkness.



OceanofPDF.com

c5C6
    
  


  


Chapter 36

Leila


Three nights had come and gone since Leila last spoke with Prisca, but it may as well have been an eternity. She’d known to expect the delay, but the passage of time picked at Her already stricken nerves. Each sunset was a reminder of another day Tobias waited in a dungeon, another day of torture, another day closer to death, if he still lived at all. Leila shuddered. She couldn’t wait any longer.


So, when Prisca finally announced the trial, it wasn’t dread that filled Leila, but relief.


“Who accepts the challenge?”


The queen sat in her balcony as she had days before, but Leila hadn’t joined her. She stood amid the masses in the square below, a speck of little importance at the whim of the Kovahrian queen. Without hesitation, She made Her way into the center of the square, then took to one knee and bowed.


Gasps rang off from the balcony overhead. Hylas, Raphael, and Delphi gaped at Her, shock and fear plastered across their faces. She hadn’t told them of Her decision, and given their reactions, She was grateful for it. Then She caught sight of Naomi and Yucana, the same horrid emotions alive in their stares, and Her stomach sank.


A guffaw stole Her focus. A new line of prisoners stood paces from Her, and several laughed uproariously at Her expense. It didn’t matter that She was a queen in Her own right, nor that Her skin glowed. Kovahrians had little care for Her title or magic. She was a fraction of the size of the average Kovahrian, hardly a threatening warrior by their standards. The trial hadn’t yet begun, and they’d already doomed Her to die.


The crowd parted as a man shoved his way forward. Enzo appeared at Leila’s side, sweat glistening on his forehead as he caught his breath. “I volunteer myself as champion for Her Holiness,” he said. “I will fight in Her honor and represent Her in battle.”


Leila stood upright. “He will not represent Me. I will fight on My own.”


“Your Holiness⁠—”


“Leila of Thessen has accepted the challenge.” Prisca’s eyes panned to Enzo, then narrowed. “Stand back, Guard.”


Enzo glanced between Leila and Prisca, two queens in direct opposition to him. Swallowing hard, he stepped back into the horde, though the green wisps of his fear lingered, burning Leila’s nostrils.


Prisca turned her attention to the crowd. “Does no one else accept?”


An uncomfortable silence hovered over the square, and then two burly men appeared from the throng of people, taking a knee on either side of Leila. One was heavily muscled with a thick auburn beard, while the other was rotund, his brown hair split into two long braids hanging down his back. Both men eclipsed Her in size, and neither looked Her way, as if She didn’t exist.


“The trial begins at dawn.” Cheering and chanting rang out among the masses, and a hint of a smirk graced Prisca’s lips. “And what a spectacle it will be.”


She stared straight at Leila, not bothering to mask her satisfaction. It burned Leila, how Her sacrifice and suffering had become the Kovahrian queen’s amusement. She clung to Her hatred, letting it fuel Her resolve. In less than one day, Leila would either hold the key to saving Her love, or She’d lay dead in the Queen’s Forest.


And Prisca didn’t care either way.





“In honor of Her Holiness’s last meal with us, a feast!”


Laughter and cheering erupted around the dining table, and Leila clenched Her jaw. “It is only a joke.” Prisca had told Leila that each time she’d made the claim—that it was Leila’s last bath, Her last sunset, and now this. Leila didn’t find humor in the statement, nor did She believe it was intended as such. No one seemed to think She’d survive the trial, and unfortunately enough, their doubts were well founded.


Someone slammed their fist against the table, and She flinched. Nearly the entire citadel staff filled the space, overflowing from the heavy wooden seats and chugging beer without a hint of decorum. Soldiers tore into sausages and gobbled up stew, gravy and spittle dripping from their beards, and Leila’s appetite soured upon spying chewed food in too many open mouths.


Prying eyes tore through Leila. Naomi and Yucana were staring at Her, and She fought to avoid their line of sight, still wounded by their words from days prior. Raphael too held Her in his gaze. He had fought with Her to change Her mind, and She could practically feel his pleading thoughts through his chestnut stare. Fortunately, She didn’t seem to be Enzo’s priority; he was busy comforting Hylas, who sat teary-eyed in his seat, visibly fighting the urge to bawl into his stew. Leila sighed. Not even Her allies believed She’d see victory.


A soldier belched across from Leila, and She dropped Her cutlery and stood. She’d had enough. She abandoned the dining room without parting, winding down the neighboring corridor to nowhere in particular. She just needed to get away—away from the gnashing teeth, from the cheering, from every reminder that the masses awaited Her demise.


“Leila!”


She stopped short and spun around. Naomi loomed behind her, grunting as she manually pushed the wheels of her cart. “Leila!” She fussed with her wheels, though they didn’t budge, stuck on one of the stone slabs along the floor. She groaned. “God, I hate this cart.”


“Let Me help you.”


Leila hurried to her side, taking the handles of the cart and guiding it forward. Sighing, Naomi slouched in her seat. “I’m telling You, one day I’ll make something much more suitable for the task, once I have the means.”


Leila nodded along, Her thoughts elsewhere. “Where are you headed?”


“To find You, obviously.” Naomi looked over her shoulder at Leila. “What the hell are You doing?”


“I’m helping you down the hall.”


“You know bloody well what I’m asking.”


Leila brought the cart to a halt. Naomi’s eyes had become penetrating, a look She’d been avoiding for too long and could no longer escape.


“You can’t enter the trial,” Naomi said. “Ten armed criminals from the realm of warriors? And You must somehow best them all?”


“There are three of us versus ten of them. If we each manage⁠—”


“Leila, You’ll be killed.”


The words rattled Her. “It must be done.”


“But why? Why sacrifice Yourself for some foreign queen? I just don’t understand.”


Leila wilted. “I thought you’d be glad to see Me gone.”


“Why would You ever think that?”


Leila froze, stunned by the earnestness of Naomi’s words. She watched Leila intently as if searching Her face for an answer, and that alone—that unstated camaraderie—repaired a fraction of Leila’s broken heart.


“Delphi is furious with You, You know,” Naomi continued with a huff. “She didn’t even attend the feast. And I can’t say I blame her. What You’re doing is madness⁠—”


“The queen won’t lend Me her army,” Leila said. “She won’t help Me save Tobias.” She gazed up at the ceiling. “Either I enter the trial, or Tobias . . .”


The words died on Her tongue. Naomi sat quietly in front of Her, and when She finally dared to glance her way, tears had brimmed her eyes.


“There’s no other way?” Naomi asked.


Emotion thickened Leila’s throat, but She swallowed it down. “I wish there was something else, but this is what I have to do.”


A brief silence drifted between them. Naomi’s lip wobbled, and a single tear tracked down her cheek. “So, it’s happening again. First my brother goes off to fight, and now You.”


Leila was already teetering on the edge, and the pain in Naomi’s gaze was nearly enough to send Her plummeting. She gave Naomi’s hand a firm squeeze, then flagged down a guard standing paces away. “Zhitinka.” She gestured to Naomi. “Take her wherever she’d like to go.”


Naomi looked over her shoulder, watching Leila until she rounded the corner, and Leila let out a shallow breath. Her patience had whittled away, and every horrid feeling that had been plaguing Her was fighting to the surface. The hallway to Her chamber was paces ahead, but before She turned the corner, a familiar husky voice echoed off the walls. Leila groaned. Enzo. She didn’t need to see him, not now. She peered around the corner, confirming Her suspicions. Hylas and Enzo stood in front of Hylas’s chamber, seemingly about to part ways.


“You are sad.” Enzo eyed Hylas over, tilting his chin up to reach the senator’s line of sight. “I do not like it.”


Hylas shifted from foot to foot. “Am I bothering you?”


“No, no,” Enzo said. “I wish that your sadness was . . . what is the word?” His hands floated in front of him as he spoke. “That it was the other way. Glad, and with the smile.”


Hylas’s voice became soft and sheepish. “I feel better when you’re near.”


A long silence swept through the hallway, awkward enough to make Leila cringe. Eventually, Hylas heaved out a sigh. “I suppose this is goodnight, then.”


“Yes.” Enzo nodded a bit too fervently. “You need sleep for strong body and mind. Awake to conquer and spill much blood.”


Hylas’s frown wasn’t lost on Leila, even from where She stood. “Well then”—he opened his chamber door and headed inside—“pleasant dreams, Enzo.”


Enzo’s hand shot forward, stopping the door before it could shut behind Hylas. The senator turned to face him, eyes wide, and Enzo rattled off a long string of Kovahrian, his words so swift Leila could barely decipher them. Scent. Forest. Lick. By the time he’d finished, Hylas stood frozen, lips parted and mind swirling behind his gaze.


“W-what does that mean?” he choked out.


“You are tall and of much grace like great snow deer, with hair of night sky and smell of morning forest. I want to touch, to taste your lips, they are like, eh, wet fruit.” Enzo came in closer, lowering his voice to a husky growl. “I want to lick little spots on your skin, and I want to fuck you hard by heat of fire.” His slate eyes shrank, the intent they carried explicit. “Hylas of Thessen, I feel you when I sleep.”


Fuchsia eddies cascaded down the corridor like a parade of lust and desire. Enzo gazed back at a stunned Hylas, awaiting a response, then wrinkled his nose. “I should fuck you? Or I should go?”


Hylas grabbed Enzo’s face and kissed him hard, dragging him into the chamber before slamming the door shut behind them. Muffled stumbles and moans sounded, and Leila resolved to end Her eavesdropping, abandoning Her hiding spot and heading to Her own bedchamber.


The tiniest hint of a smile graced Her lips. Those feelings were so familiar to Her. She’d felt them all with Tobias.


Just as swiftly as it had appeared, Her moment of happiness withered away.


The chamber around Her was dark, and She didn’t bother to light a candle. Leila threw Herself onto Her bed, face buried in the plush pillows. Pain racked Her insides—for the loss of Her love, Her realm, and soon Her life, according to everyone in the citadel. The trial was Her last chance to right Her wrongs, and yet it felt far away, an impossible dream forever out of reach. She’d killed men before, but Kovahrian criminals? Her own senator, Erebus, had nearly bested Her in Her palace, and She only lived due to Talos’s intervention.


Leila shook Herself. She had to survive. There was so much at stake. She toyed with the two promises on Her wrist, willing them to lend Her strength, but Her fingertips wobbled as they traced the ribbons’ edges, and a sob tore free from Her lips. How pitiful, to be crying again in the same bed. She’d hoped and prayed She’d have no more tears left to shed, but they persisted, an endless river of grief.


A knock sounded at the door, then the hinges creaked, revealing a stream of light and a hesitant face. Yucana stood in the doorway, and Leila couldn’t fight the groan that tore from Her lips. “Oh God, not now.”


“I heard You crying,” Yucana said.


“And you thought you’d stop by and make it worse, is that right? Or have you simply come to watch?” The harsh tone of Leila’s words stung even Her, and She turned away. “Apologies. Just go, please.”


The door closed, but based on the heaviness in the room, Yucana hadn’t left. Her footsteps toward the bed confirmed as much. “You cry every night.”


Leila didn’t respond, cringing into Her pillow. Had Yucana been able to hear Her? She bit Her lip, forcing Her tears at bay.


“May I join You?”


Grumbling, Leila sat upright. “I assume I don’t have much of a choice.”


As Leila wiped Her wet cheeks, Yucana took a seat at Her side, gentle in a way Leila wasn’t accustomed to. A familiar frown graced her lips. “I saw You accept the queen’s challenge today.”


“Everyone saw that.”


“That’s very dangerous, Leila. You may not survive.”


Leila resisted the urge to roll Her eyes. “I’m well aware.”


“What will become of Thessen if You’re gone?” Yucana scooted closer until they were hip to hip. “I don’t know if You’ve been informed, but the plague has returned. Your people are sick. Naomi and I were lucky to have been spared of it, but many weren’t so fortunate. Your power is needed.” Her words were firm, but her voice was uncharacteristically soft. “Do You understand? You’re taking a great risk.”


Do I understand? Leila would’ve scoffed at the question had it not been for Her sorrow. “It’s My only chance.” She straightened, determined to wrangle what little poise She had left. “If I accept the challenge and succeed, Prisca will have to listen to Me. I can save Tobias.” Her voice caught. “And Thessen. I can save them all.”


Yucana didn’t respond for a long while, leaving Leila to pick at Her sleeve and wonder what She’d said wrong. The woman was close enough for Leila to read Her colors, but She didn’t bother. She was too consumed with Her own emotions, and She certainly didn’t need the judgment.


“Did Tobias ever tell You about his father?” Yucana finally said.


“Just that he died in the accident that injured Naomi.”


“That doesn’t surprise me.”


Leila sniffed, still picking at Her sleeve. She wasn’t sure what Tobias’s father had to do with anything, but She had a feeling Yucana was about to tell Her. Yucana smiled, her gaze drifting away as she spoke.


“My husband knew exactly what he wanted from life. He wanted a business, a wife, a daughter, and a son. And he got exactly what he’d asked for, and the latter two he got at once.” Her smile widened. “Twins. He was so thrilled. He loved them both, but he lay claim to Tobias the moment he laid eyes on him. He saw himself in that child and wanted to mold him into the man he ought to be.”


Brontes floated through Leila’s thoughts, and Her stomach roiled. A man thrilled to be a father. She couldn’t imagine such a thing in Her own life.


“But Tobias wasn’t like his father,” Yucana said. “Rizon, my husband, he was all sweat and dirt. He was a metalsmith, You see. But Tobias was quiet and thoughtful. He wanted to draw and paint, and his father wanted an apprentice. Naomi was right there, eager from the start, but it had to be his son, for whatever reason. And when Tobias went another way, his world crumbled.”


Yucana’s smile faded, her lips twisting into a slight grimace. “Eventually he allowed Naomi to take to smithing, but it felt intentional, as if she were a weapon in some unspoken war. But Tobias was content with his art, and he flourished. He was so good. I couldn’t believe it myself, his talent. He’d found his path, yet his father fumed.” Sighing, she shook her head. “Their fights . . . they were so ugly. I couldn’t stop it. I didn’t know what to do.”


The tiniest tuft of blue wafted from the woman’s shoulders. Leila almost reached out to hold her hand but thought better of it.


“Then everything changed,” Yucana continued. “Tobias secured an apprenticeship with Petros Elia, the finest artist in all the realm. Not even Rizon could fault this. Tobias had followed his passion, and it had been fruitful. And for a time, there was peace in our home. Tobias and Rizon were civil, even friendly. All was well and calm.” Her lips parted, but she sat quietly for slow seconds before speaking. “And then my husband died.”


The air became thick with grief—both Leila’s and Yucana’s, mingling into a despairing soup. For the first time, Leila felt a kinship to the woman—that somehow, they were more alike than She’d ever allowed Herself to believe.


“I know Tobias regrets those years of anger,” Yucana said. “But it’s a father’s duty to love his children as they are, and he failed.” A sad frown graced her lips. “Perhaps I failed as well. Maybe I should’ve done more. But I have peace in knowing they had their friendship. That for a moment in time, we were a family.”


Leila shifted in Her seat, not knowing what to say. Before She could ruminate over Her confusion, Yucana took Her hand, and the contact shocked Her.


“Tobias is stubborn. I’m sure You’ve seen this firsthand.” She nudged Leila’s shoulder. “He knows what he wants from life, and he will seek it out no matter the cost to him. Despite the sacrifice or opposition, he always persists. He moves ahead until he proves everyone wrong—and he always does.” Pride gleamed in her gaze. “He understands his destiny. I should stop questioning him, to be honest. You’d think I’d know better at this point.”


Her soft chuckling did little to ease Leila. She sat rigid at Yucana’s side, digesting her touch, her words. Just then, something changed in Yucana’s demeanor—the lightness was gone, replaced with something timid and strained, and when she spoke next, her voice came out slow and intentional.


“What I’m trying to say is, if he believes You’re the woman for him, then I imagine he’s right. He’s made many mistakes, but he’s always been so clear about his future. And if he sees You there, then it must be so.”


Leila didn’t respond. The moment was foreign to Her, another emotion to decipher when She hadn’t the energy. She was a husk of a woman, drained and depleted, flitting between consciousness and somewhere else far away.


Yucana forced out an unconvincing laugh. “He gets his stubbornness from me, You know.”


“Shocking,” Leila muttered.


“I haven’t been fair to You, Leila. I can admit that.”


Leila breathed in slowly, taking in Yucana’s words. Her whole life, She’d been painted a villain—by Her father, the senators, Her own sister. They’d reduced Her to Her faults, and though She’d fought against their wounding words, She’d fallen victim to their lies, had seen Herself as the monster they claimed Her to be. For once, She wasn’t to blame, and to hear it aloud was freeing.


“My mother died before I was even born. I never knew her.” Leila’s voice came out stronger than She’d expected. “Caliya filled the role beautifully, but even she was gone when I was so young. I’ve always felt cheated in a way—not having a mother. Then I met you, and I felt such joy. I thought maybe, possibly, I could be like a daughter to you. That you’d love Me as your own.” Leila looked Yucana hard in the eyes. “But you hate Me.”


“It’s not easy for me to apologize. Know that I only do so when I truly believe I’ve made a terrible mistake.” Yucana placed a hand over their entwined fingers. “I’m so sorry.”


Leila exhaled as one of Her many weights unburdened itself from Her, leaving Her the slightest bit lighter. Yucana rubbed her thumb over Leila’s knuckles the way Tobias often did, and Her heart lurched and seized, pulling Her back to Her sorrows.


“I know You can’t begin to like me overnight. I certainly haven’t earned Your fondness. But no young woman should have to cry alone.” Yucana poked her head into Leila’s line of sight. “I may not be the face You were hoping to see, but I’m here. And You can cry in my arms if You need to.”


“I feel silly.”


Yucana’s eyes glistened, and she offered a sad smile. “My daughter, it’s perfectly all right to feel silly.”


Leila’s lip wobbled despite Her resistance. Her eyes flitted back to the two red ribbons lacing Her wrist, then to the single tear tracking down Yucana’s cheek, and Leila sank into the woman’s embrace, Her grief for once not Hers alone.





Muffled voices from beyond Her chamber sent Leila jerking awake. She rubbed the sleep from Her eyes, then She stiffened, spinning toward Her window. The veil of night was lifting, shifting to a cool grey. Dawn was nearing, yet no one had woken Her.


She couldn’t have slept for more than a few hours. Perhaps Her grief had finally exhausted Her, granting Her the rest She’d so desperately needed. Yucana was nowhere to be found, and a pitcher of water along with leftover stew sat at Her bedside. She scarfed down Her cold meal, then braided Her hair, letting it fall down Her back like a whip. It wasn’t until She’d layered Her coats, cloaks, and fur mantle that the reality of the journey ahead sank in.


The masses awaited Her death.


A mirror gleamed in the distance. Her mothers were likely waiting in the reflective surface, and She couldn’t bear their worried stares. If it was Her day to die, She’d see them soon enough in the next life. Whispering an apology, She tossed a blanket over the mirror.


As She headed for the door, She stopped Herself. A clean slip of parchment lay on the floor. She opened it, finding a note scribbled in black ink—clearly Kovahrian, but the words were unfamiliar to Her. Kovahr and its fucking dialects. She charged down the corridor, pounding a nearby door twice before flinging it open.


“Hylas, do you know where . . .”


Her voice died. Hylas sat naked in his bed, a sheet clutched to his nethers, while a bare-assed Enzo squatted low to the floor, rifling through a pile of discarded clothing.


Leila averted Her gaze. “Apologies for the disruption.” She cleared Her throat, Her cheeks flushed. “Enzo, do you have a moment?”


Enzo grunted in response, holding up a single finger. Pants in hand, he sauntered toward the connecting washroom while Leila looked at something, anything other than his dangly bits. Once he’d disappeared, She took a seat at Hylas’s side. “You have to tell Me everything.”


Hylas shifted uncomfortably, pulling the sheet over his chest. “Another time, perhaps.”


“I’m curious, is the height difference difficult to manage? I mean, you’re so tall, and Enzo is rather short. I’m just wondering.” Enzo strode back into the chamber dressed from the waist down, and Leila waved Hylas away. “Never mind.” She rushed to Enzo’s side, shoving the parchment in front of him. “What does this mean?”


Enzo scanned the parchment, then handed it back to Her. “It is directions to trial. Queen’s Forest is very large. Much different ways to enter.”


“Why can’t I read it?”


“Is wartongue,” Enzo said. “All challengers receive such message.”


Leila growled. She’d heard of wartongue—a dialect used in times of battle, somewhat of a code for the Kovahrian people. “She must know I wouldn’t be able to read this.”


Enzo shrugged. “It is way of the trial.”


Leila resisted the urge to curse aloud. She was already at a stark disadvantage, and language was being used against Her. Was She too late? Would She miss the trial entirely? Her frustrations must have been written across Her face, because Enzo’s expression softened.


“Come,” he said. “I will take You.”


He and Hylas finished dressing before the three of them spilled into the corridor, Enzo leading the way. Eyes followed them as they passed, and though Leila didn’t dare meet their gazes, She knew what each person was thinking—they were witnessing the final march of a dead woman. She raised Her chin. She’d prove them wrong. After all, She’d lost count of the men She’d killed in Her lifetime. But no matter how much She tried to convince Herself, how fervently She clung to those words, Her doubts gnawed at Her. She was in Kovahr, where citizens trained in the art of warfare since childhood. Everyone knew She was out of Her depth.


The citadel gate lowered, and a gust of icy wind blew back Leila’s hood. Hylas shivered at Her side while Enzo continued on, immune to the cold. Leila’s stomach roiled. Her opponents had yet another advantage over Her—they were accustomed to the ungodly temperature, whereas Leila’s teeth were already chattering, and She struggled to walk as Her leather boots sank into the snow. She was relieved when they finally reached the citadel stable, each taking a steed. Leila chose a dapple grey with a gentle disposition, though the glistening of the mare’s kind eyes made it seem that even she pitied Leila. Frowning, She mounted the horse and followed Enzo’s lead.


The Queen’s Forest appeared in the distance, and a long stretch of people waited before it with Prisca standing in their direct center. Her fellow challengers were mounted atop their own steeds, eyes trained on the forest while many familiar faces stared intently at Her. Raphael, Yucana, Naomi, Delphi, and even Leila’s servants were waiting to see Her off, and Her heart both swelled and sank at the sight. Tears already welled in Naomi’s eyes, and Yucana clutched at her cloak as if it were a lifeline. Raphael’s gaze betrayed no emotion, but Leila could make out his nerves in his rigid stance, and Hemera was sobbing loudly onto Nyx’s shoulder.


Delphi ran up to Leila’s horse. “I love You.” She took Leila’s hand, eyes glistening over. “I love You so much.”


No sassy quip, no sardonic jab. Even Her own sister didn’t believe She could do this.


Prisca strode up to Leila, eyeing her up and down. She held out a hand. “Weapons?”


Leila couldn’t help but grimace. The other challengers’ weapons were already discarded in a pile in the snow. Despite Her misgivings, She unsheathed the blade from Her thigh and handed it to Prisca, who retrieved it with a nod.


A chuckle broke through the quiet. The prisoners stood at the opposite end of the line, and a tremor rolled down Leila’s spine. They were already armed, some with simple swords and daggers, others with spears, axes, and even a spiked mace. She pushed aside Her nerves, trying to study their faces—eight men and two women wearing tattered cloaks and tunics. One of the men was short and wide like Enzo, with stringy blond hair tied into a ponytail, and one of the women had a long scar tracing her jawline. But the prisoner who most troubled Her was the largest of them all, with legs like tree trunks and arms nearly the width of Leila’s waist. His face was mostly hidden by a brown beard, but his small blue eyes were penetrating, and they were pointed Her way.


“Places.”


Prisca’s voice pulled Leila back to the task at hand. With Her gut wound tight, Leila commanded Her horse to trot, sidling up beside the other two challengers. The man with the auburn beard looked Her way and scoffed, but the rotund man with the long braids offered Her a cordial nod, reviving some semblance of Her dignity.


“Ready.”


Leila gripped tight to Her reins. One of the prisoners hadn’t stopped laughing, but She kept Her eyes straight ahead, fighting against Her frenzied nerves. She didn’t look back at Her loved ones, certain their colors would further mangle Her pride. Nothing could change Her mind anyway. The trial wasn’t about Her. It was about Tobias.


A horn blared in the distance, and Leila squeezed Her horse with Her calves, launching them into the forest. Trees blurred around Her, and frigid air pelted Her face. She’d been riding for mere seconds when another horn sounded off. The prisoners had been released behind Her, and She dug Her heels into Her horse’s sides, quickening its pace until the forest around them was a vortex of ice and snow.


Leila tugged on the reins, slowing Her horse to a steady trot. They were near the center of the forest, and Leila’s hands were trembling, stirred by Her frantic heartbeat. She glanced over Her shoulder. Hoofprints littered the snow, leaving a trail directly to Her. Grunting, She hopped down from Her horse, landing in the snow with a crunch. With a pat on its rump, she sent the mare trotting off, leaving Her alone in the forest with the whisper of the wind.


The silence picked at Her. Nothing but barren trees and snow stretched ahead of Her, yet She couldn’t shake the feeling of being watched. She reached for Her thigh out of habit, wincing to find nothing but Her trousers. She was naked without Her blade, and the weight of Her trial became tangible. She’d killed men before, but never without a weapon.


A lump lodged in Her throat. She loosened Her cloak and mantle, letting it fall to Her elbows so the length of it trailed Her like the train of a gown. Mouth dry, She marched through the snow while looking over Her shoulder. The fabric swept away Her footprints just as She’d intended, and an inkling of hope flickered in Her chest. She was capable. She could do it. Then She flinched as the brush nearby rustled. Perhaps it was a snow deer or weasel. The Queen’s Forest was a vast labyrinth of leafless trees, and the odds of someone finding Her so swiftly were slim, but that didn’t stop Her from feeling utterly exposed. Steeling Herself, She carried on.


Once She’d ventured far enough from Her horse’s tracks, She scanned the brush ahead. There—a tree as gnarled and black as the rest, but it was thick and sturdy with many firm branches. Grunting, She climbed up its trunk, slipping twice before gaining Her footing, then hoisted Herself high into its boughs where She sat and waited.


Dawn turned to daylight while She waited, eyes trained on the land beneath Her. Perhaps She might’ve been bored had it not been for the looming threat of death, but time passed quickly, hours coming and going while Her mind was elsewhere.


Save Tobias.


Save Your realm.


Snow crunched below. Footsteps. A hooded figure emerged, though She didn’t need to see their face to know they were a prisoner. Their cloak was ragged, and She could smell the thick stench of sweat and urine from Her spot in the tree. Her gaze landed on the weapon in their hand, and Her stomach lurched.


They carried a bardiche, its pole alone near enough to Leila’s height.


Leila dug Her fingers into the bark of the tree. The bardiche was weathered and dull, but its curved blade was freshly sharpened. The empty space on Her thigh mocked Her, but She fought past Her insecurities. Save Tobias. Save Your realm. That was the challenge She had accepted. Holding Her breath, She channeled the heat of Her power and set its course.


On top of them.


Her chest slapped hard against the prisoner’s back, and She threw Her arms around their neck. Before She could wrap their waist with Her legs, they flung Her over their shoulders, catapulting Her to the ground. She slammed into the ground, air evacuating Her lungs as aches and pangs cut through Her. Before She could recover, the bardiche was headed Her way, and She rolled to the side, barely escaping its edge. Fabric and skin tore, and She cried out—the blade cut through Her arm, painting the snow red.


Another slash to Her arm marked an X into Her flesh, and She screamed as the pain shot to the bone. The prisoner lumbered closer, bardiche pointed to Her chest, and light blared behind Her eyes.


Behind them.


She reappeared on Her feet in time to watch the prisoner stagger forward, lunging at nothing. With his hood fallen, She recognized him—the man with the blond hair. He shuffled from side to side, glancing madly in either direction before spinning to face Her. His eyes shot wide, and then he let out an appreciative laugh. Leila wasn’t so amused. Her gashed arm throbbed, and while he’d marked Her twice, She’d barely even touched him. He tossed the bardiche between his hands, taunting Her, and his attempt to intimidate was working. Do something.


Before She could devise a plan, the prisoner was barreling toward Her. His blade nearly grazed Her stomach before She shadow walked away, and She ducked beneath his next assault before disappearing amid Her light. She sent the man in dizzying circles each time She summoned Her power, though he never slowed or tired, and that vexed Her. Their tedious game had become familiar—a man with a bardiche against an unarmed opponent doomed to die. Tobias and Antaeus. Tobias had managed to disarm the Giant, hadn’t he? With another burst of Her power, She shadow walked behind the prisoner, and just as Tobias had, She launched Her foot at his ass.


The prisoner spun around and yanked at Her ankle, collapsing Her.


Fuck. The prisoner kicked Her ribs again and again, leaving Her to cough and gasp, feeble at his feet. She was better than this. She was a queen, for God’s sake. Silver glinted as the blade of the bardiche swooped toward Her.


Away.


The blade cracked into the forest floor, lodging into the frozen soil. The prisoner tugged at the weapon, a distraction Leila had to exploit. She was on his back yet again, arms wrapping his throat and digging in tight. Heaving Her forward, he flipped Her once more onto Her back, but She had expected it and was ready. As he reached for Her throat, She dug Her thumbs deep into his eye sockets, and he wrenched back and screamed, cupping his face as blood rained down his cheeks.


Leila staggered to Her feet, homing in on Her target—the bardiche wedged in the ground. She tugged at it once, twice, then finally yanked it free, teetering to the side. As the prisoner struggled to right himself, she slammed the bardiche straight down, splitting his skull.


The prisoner went limp, and Leila dropped to Her knees, breath billowing from Her lips in clouds of mist. She’d thought the cold might numb the pain, but it only seemed to heighten it, the icy chill like needles against Her opened flesh. Closing Her eyes, She cursed. She’d barely managed to defeat one prisoner, and there were nine more remaining.


She shook Herself. There wasn’t time for doubt. She fiddled with Her layers of clothing, ripping the lining of Her cloak in a thin strip and wrapping it thrice around Her arm. She’d have to settle for the makeshift tourniquet, and hopefully, Her light would work swiftly and slow the bleeding. Pushing past Her weakness, She hobbled to Her feet and stood over Her fresh kill. Bastard. She pulled the bardiche free from his skull, then used the sharp blade to chop one of his fingers free, grimacing all the while. She pocketed it before analyzing the weapon in Her grasp—nearly Her own height, just as She’d suspected. Growling, She trudged ahead, lugging the heavy weapon at Her side.


Leila tried to concentrate on covering Her tracks, but it wasn’t long before the wear of Her body stole Her focus. There was a dead man lying in the forest, and no doubt his presence would somehow point to Her whereabouts. His finger in Her pocket was little consolation, as She was already marred, Her ribs twinging with every move She made. Perhaps one was fractured or just heavily bruised, but either way, She wasn’t in prime condition, and Her best was needed against Kovahrians.


Something pungent singed Her nostrils. Sewage. No, the scent was familiar. Fear. Green wisps fluttered in the distance, starkly visible against the gleaming white. She readied Her bardiche and followed the emotion.


With each step forward, Her defenses ebbed. These colors were despairing, even defeated, and by the time She made out the head of auburn hair, She’d lowered Her weapon. Her fellow challenger lay sprawled in the snow, breathing in short, shallow spurts. A bloodied gash split his stomach in two, and entrails spilled into his lap and down his legs. He looked up at Leila.


“Kill me,” he bit out.


Leila’s stomach caved in. Between the sour taste of his dread and his exposed innards, Her body revolted, pulling Her back and forth between sickness and sorrow. Squatting low to his side, She awkwardly positioned the blade of Her bardiche to his neck, then sliced through his throat with one clean swipe.


Blood gurgled from the open wound, and life quickly faded from his eyes. Bile coated Leila’s tongue, but She swallowed it down. There wasn’t time for weakness. She dug through his clothes, relieved to find two severed fingers from a small knapsack. Victory. That meant two less battles for Leila to fight. She pocketed the trophies, then continued Her examination, flipping through his cloaks, patting his legs, and pulling his boots free. No weapons, not even a dagger. She sighed. Perhaps he'd defeated two prisoners with his bare hands, or maybe whoever had bested him stole whatever weapons he had procured. Either way, She was stuck with Her unwieldy bardiche.


Seven more kills. She stood and carried on.


The passage of time became an afterthought. Leila was far more focused on Her heavy weapon, the freezing chill, and the loss of feeling of Her toes. She didn’t understand how numbness could hurt, but the sizzling sting of Her hands and feet became far more potent than the ache of Her injuries. Snow melted beneath Her boots, so She gave up on covering Her tracks, pulling Her cloak tight around Her shoulders to shield Her from the wind. It seemed everything was working against Her—Her body, Her heritage, and even Her magic.


Something clanked in the distance—metal against metal. Next came muffled voices, and Leila scrambled to ready Her weapon, stumbling beneath its weight much to Her embarrassment. Wrangling Her pride, She took slow, deliberate steps forward, following the din. This was no doubt a fight, which afforded Her some cover. Soon, the commotion was just paces away, and She pressed Her back to a gnarled tree and peered around its trunk.


Grunts and curses rang out between clanging and heavy swings. A particularly hairy prisoner wielded a sword while the last remaining challenger brandished a wooden pole with a blade on each side—a swallow, a weapon Leila had seen depicted in scrolls but never in person. The men shuffled through the snow, sturdy and unrelenting, and Leila flinched when steel connected with steel. Then the prisoner lunged forward, blasting the swallow from his opponent’s hands, and Leila’s heart thundered. The challenger was unarmed, and the prisoner was headed his way. She clenched Her teeth and charged ahead, only to sink ankle-deep into the snow. She groaned.


Fuck it.


Light burst behind Her eyelids, and She stood paces in front of the prisoner. He wavered, slack-jawed, which gave Her enough time to barrel his way as She rammed Her bardiche into his gut.


The prisoner collapsed, and Leila breathed a sigh of relief. All the while Her fellow challenger, the large man with two long braids hanging down to his bum, stood eerily still, eyeing Her over. Without a word, he plucked his swallow from the ground and dropped to his knees, sawing at the still wriggling prisoner’s hand. He tossed the finger to Leila, much to Her surprise, then gestured toward a purse at his hip.


“You have?”


His accent was thick, and it was clear he knew very little of Her language. Leila pulled the three other fingers from Her pocket, and he revealed his own—a single trophy. He nodded. “Five more.”


He spoke matter-of-factly, not a hint of judgment or pity in his tone, and for that Leila was grateful. She eyed the body at their feet—the man had finally stopped moving, and She assumed if he wasn’t dead already, he was nearing it—and a weight lifted from Her at the sight of his sword. She swept it up, along with the second weapon tied to his hip—a spiked mace. She’d seen them before in the Thessian armory but never had the need to use one. She tucked it into Her belt alongside the sword, then looked to the challenger, who stood watching, waiting. Unsure, She offered the bardiche his way, which he gladly accepted, carrying it with ease.


Silence stretched between them. She stared at the challenger, who stared at Her, each passing second nipping at Her insides.


He gestured toward the forest ahead of them. “We go together?”


Leila exhaled, then nodded. “Together.”


They trod through the snow side by side, Leila struggling to keep up with the man’s much longer stride. He was expressionless and unharmed, and Leila tried to mirror his stoicism despite Her stinging wounds and the blistering cold. Gripping the hilt of Her sword, She eyed him sidelong. He was pinkish and pale like most Kovahrians, but older than Leila, with lines that cut through his forehead and the corners of his brown eyes. No colors wafted from his flesh, leaving Her with little to study.


The sun above began sinking in the sky. Daytime was slipping away, and still She knew nothing about the man, nor had they come across any other prisoners. Wrangling Her best Kovahrian accent, She ended the silence. “What is your name?”


The challenger’s bushy eyebrows raised, as if he hadn’t expected to hear his native tongue from Her lips. “Lorne,” he said. “You are The Savior of Thessen?”


She nodded. “Leila.” She could feel his eyes on Her, an inspecting gaze, but that was a welcome change from all the pathetic looks She’d received that morning.


“You have magic,” he said.


“I can lend it to you. You can wield it if you so choose.”


He shook his head. “It is not our way.”


Leila frowned. These weren’t exactly the type of conditions where one could afford to refuse help. Then again, he wasn’t the challenger doomed to die.


“You fight well for a Thessian,” Lorne said. “You have trained.”


Leila resisted the urge to scoff. That brief scuffle was hardly the best example of Her capabilities. “I have.”


“But this is Kovahr.” He stopped short, looking Her hard in the eyes. “You will need a far greater weapon.”


His tone remained level, but his expression had shifted. She didn’t need to see his colors. He was worried for Her. She squared Her shoulders.


“Magic is My weapon.”


Something rustled in the distance. Leila reached for Her sword while Lorne readied his bardiche, eyes trained on the whiteness ahead. There was nothing, no sound, no movement, but Leila didn’t falter. Her nerves simmered beneath the surface, then fired off as a towering figure sprinted their way.


“Ready Yourself,” Lorne said, as if She wasn’t standing beside him, sword drawn. Before She could speak, he bolted toward the prisoner.


Steel clashed against steel, reverberating through Leila’s bones. Lorne dodged the prisoner’s blows, attacking and countering with immense strength while Leila pivoted in the distance, waiting for Her moment. Do something. But there was no opening as the two men expertly wielded their weapons with brute force. The prisoner feigned to the left before swiping at Lorne, sending him tottering off balance. This was Her opportunity. She vanished from Her spot in the forest and reappeared in front of the prisoner, Her hood falling to Her shoulders, revealing the extent of Her glow.


The prisoner stumbled backward, dazed by Her light, and She charged, putting Her full force behind Her sword. It wasn’t enough. The prisoner deflected with ease, shoving Her aside as if She were more of an annoyance than an opponent. Letting out a frustrated cry, She swung for his belly, only for Her sword to fly free from Her hands. The prisoner had swatted it away, laughing at Her shocked expression. She reached for Her mace, but a splitting pain spiderwebbed through Her skull. He’d clubbed Her in the temple with the hilt of his sword, and black spotted Her vision, Her world a muddled mess of steel and darkness. Two hands wrapped around Her throat and slammed Her against a tree, and She clawed at Her captor as Her lungs pleaded for air.


With a gut-wrenching howl, the prisoner released Leila, collapsing Her. She coughed and hacked, each breath ragged, all the while fighting to reclaim Her vision. Her world slowly materialized—Lorne and the prisoner were embroiled in battle just paces away, and it wasn’t long before Her fellow challenger was unarmed just as She had been. Her mace lay at Her feet, and She snatched it up and darted toward the prisoner, swinging its spikes into the back of his bald head.


Rivulets of blood tracked down his scalp. The man turned to face Leila, bewilderment etched across his face, the mace still lodged in his skull. Leila’s shoulders loosened. The battle was over. But the man still glared at Her, and his expression morphed from shock to wrath.


He took a lumbering step forward while She stumbled backward, torn between confusion and horror. My sword. Where is it? But there wasn’t time to search, as the man was already brandishing his weapon, slicing the air with murderous intent. A fiery sting ripped through Her ribs, and She couldn’t stop Herself from crying out, toppling to Her hands and knees. The prisoner loomed over Her, and he yanked the mace free from his own flesh, hatred alive in his gaze.


A swallow ripped through his gut and carved upward, creating a yawning gash from his loins to his ribs.


The man froze, blood slowly spilling from his lips. Lorne wrenched his weapon free and extended a hand Leila’s way.


“Stand.”


She took his assistance, muffling Her cry as She hobbled to Her feet. The corpse was of little consequence, as Her newest mark pulsated with Her heartbeat. She pressed a hand to it, wincing as Her light flooded the gash. The prisoner was somehow still barely alive, but that didn’t stop Lorne from carving away at his finger and dropping it in his pocket. Breathing through Her teeth, Leila dared to examine Her ribs—an ugly gash awash in crimson. She certainly needed stitches, yet there were four more prisoners to kill. How could She fight in this state?


“Thank you,” Leila said between pants. “For saving Me.”


Lorne smiled beneath his mustache. “Thank You for saving me too.”


A whoosh sliced the air in two, and a spear burst through Lorne’s chest.


“Lorne!” Leila cried as the man collapsed into Her arms, crushing Her with his oppressive weight. Heart racing, She pushed the man aside and inspected him, only to be pummeled to the ground.


A fist plowed into Leila’s nose, rendering Her world a patchwork of black and white. At some point the forest around Her began to take shape, but the air had turned red, consumed by a furious haze. A woman lay on top of Leila, a long scar trailing her jaw, and the vitriol consuming her was one Leila knew well. Leila reeled beneath another blow, the taste of blood coating Her split lips. She tried to resist, but the prisoner dug her fingers into Leila’s opened ribs, sending Her howling in agony.


Silver flashed amid the chaos—a dagger wedged in the prisoner’s hand. Snarling, she slammed it toward Leila’s throat.


Leila’s hands stirred to life, catching the woman’s wrist and holding it in place. She didn’t know where the strength had come from, but She didn’t question it, summoning every ounce of power within Her. She gritted Her teeth as the dagger crept closer, its tip grazing Her exposed flesh. The woman stared Leila hard in the eyes, and between her crazed smile and violent colors, everything about her seethed with hatred. Leila’s hands were slipping, wet with blood and sweat, and She let out a strangled cry as the blade broke through a layer of skin. The woman let out a husky laugh.


“Fuck Thessen and its sovereign.” Her chuckle turned into a growl. “And fuck the sovereign’s daughter.”


Something inside Leila ignited. The redness surrounding them no longer belonged to the prisoner. It was Leila’s rage to wear and wield.


Behind her.


She burst into darkness, reappearing paces away. Leila wasn’t sure how She’d done it. Harnessing Her light during extreme duress was nearly impossible, but She’d become something greater than Herself. The prisoner scrambled on her hands and knees, stupefied by the nothingness beneath her, and Leila wasted no time sweeping up Her sword and plunging it through the woman’s back.


The prisoner howled, then wailed again as Leila ripped the weapon free. Grabbing her by her hair, She lurched the woman upright and sliced her across the throat, letting her tumble lifelessly to the ground.


Her rage retreated, bringing Her back to Her senses. Lorne. She rushed to his side, taking his face in Her hands.


“Lorne?” Her fingers shook as She fought to unbutton his tunic. “I can heal you.”


He lay still, his eyes far away. A whimper tore from Her lips, and She planted a hand to his exposed chest. Nothing, not even a flicker of life. Tears welled in Her eyes as She sank to Her knees.


Another death.


The surrounding cold disappeared. Leila was swept up in Her thoughts, in the familiar ugliness. I could’ve saved him. Logic told Her otherwise, but the voice in Her head wasn’t Her own—it was that of Her father. She couldn’t bear it, not after everything She’d endured, and She let out a primal scream.


Her voice died, and the silence of the forest returned. She was alone, Her body marked and marred, and though She’d seen the worst of man, still She persisted. My Dark One. Her father had called Her that, yet it was Her darkness that fueled Her shadow walking, that kept Her alive. A blistering rage echoed between Her ears, sending Her heart quaking and hands trembling, but She didn’t fight it. The burn of Her holy light had turned into a hellish inferno, making Her new, better.


She wasn’t solely The Savior. She could be a destroyer too.


The bitter cold nipped at Her flesh as She peeled Her cloak and mantle from Her body. With a grunt, She ripped a long strip of Her cloak and wrapped it thrice around Her ribs, wincing as the injured skin puckered and pinched. She used fresh snow to wash the blood from Her lips and cupped a handful to Her swollen jaw. Her light would heal Her soon enough. What She needed was wrath, and She had plenty of it to spare.


She sawed off a finger from Her most recent kill, then turned to Lorne, looking into his lifeless eyes. Emotion pricked at Her, but She wrenched the spear free from his body, then fumbled through his purse, retrieving his two trophies. Whispering a prayer, she closed his eyelids and covered his wound, situating him gently in the snow as if he were sleeping. Soldiers would retrieve him so he may receive a warrior’s burial. She had to prepare for the night ahead.


She was a predator, and tonight She would stalk Her prey.


The first thing She did was choose Her weapons. A part of Her wanted to take them all. If someone found the bodies, they’d likely steal whatever weapons remained and use them against Her. But She couldn’t possibly carry so much steel through the forest without draining Her reserves, so She had to be strategic. The spear, the sword, the dagger, and the sparrow—those were Her choices, so She buried the bardiche and mace under dirt and snow. Then, with Her nostrils flared, She unfastened the mantle from the prisoner’s dead body and secured it around Her own neck, leaving Her cloak behind on Her adversary’s corpse. The mantle stunk of piss and offered little resistance to the cold, but She pulled the hood overhead regardless, spear in hand and the other weapons fastened at Her hip. The sun was just setting, which meant She had a bit more light at Her disposal. If She wanted to track Her prey, She needed to do it immediately.


Holding tight to Her spear, She trekked up a nearby hillside. Her legs burned from the exertion, but the burn of Her anger was deeper. Reaching the peak of the rocky ledge, She gazed out at the Queen’s Forest—a mass of frosty white speckled with knotted black. All She needed was a hint of color, no matter the emotion it carried. The icy wind tousled the loose hair of Her braid, but still She searched.


The tiniest green speck fluttered in the distance, discreet enough to miss if She weren’t so vigilant. She had navigated that area earlier in the day. She channeled the roaring power of Her light.


Closer.


Snow crunched beneath Her feet as She landed amid a trail of hoof prints, the path She had traveled upon entering the Queen’s Forest. She trained Her eyes on the green peeking through the tree line, allowing it to guide Her. It wasn’t long before the color became widespread, reaching through the air like fingertips and weaving between boulders and branches. A well-muscled prisoner was crouched behind a fallen log, and though he was stoic, his colors betrayed him. He was deathly afraid. Leila could use that.


She took a light step forward. Another. Holding Her breath, She reached for the spear on Her back, then readied it at Her side. Still, the man was crouched in place, a battle axe locked in his fist. With one swift thrust, She threw the spear, and it cracked into the trunk of a tree paces from his hiding place.


The man bolted upright, axe readied. Perfect. He scanned the forest in front of him, and though he was surely more than twice Leila’s size, his fear thickened around him. She tapped into Her holy light, and it swept Her away from security, placing Her directly behind the prisoner, his broad shoulders pointed Her way.


She slammed Her swallow into his spine.


A crack rang out, and the prisoner wailed before collapsing face-first into the snow. Leila wrenched him onto his back, then plowed the swallow into his upper thigh, watching remorselessly as he screamed and writhed beneath Her assault. Rivers of red poured from his flesh as She ripped the weapon free.


“Don’t worry.” She wiped the sparrow clean against the snow, then fished for Her dagger. “You’ll bleed out soon.”


She wrenched his axe from his grasp before searching his person. Something hard was tucked into his belt—a second dagger, one She gladly added to Her collection of weapons. The life had mostly faded from his eyes once She began sawing at his finger, another trophy for Her pocket. Perhaps a different version of Her might’ve mourned the moment, but She was compelled by the fire within, certain She’d melt the surrounding ice and set the forest aflame. She buried the axe and spear, but not quite as carefully as before. The sun was nearing the horizon, and Leila had limited time to work with.


She climbed the nearest, tallest tree, venturing high into its branches until She had a meager view of the treetops ahead. Color. That was all She needed, some semblance of life amid the frost and decay.


Grey billowed in the distance, but it wasn’t emotion. Someone had lit a fire, and smoke was eddying into the sky above. Leila scurried down the tree and headed for Her newest mark.


The sun descended quickly with each passing step, blackening the forest around Her. A part of Her was grateful for the cover of darkness, as the glow of Her skin was no longer a factor, and it was much easier to hide among the shadows. But that meant Her opponents were hidden as well, and the air turned especially frigid at night. She trained Her eyes on the smoke, hypnotized as it crept closer. The scent of burnt flesh tinged Her nostrils—meat. She salivated and carried on.


Her destination materialized—a man seated on a log, rotating a skinned rabbit over a sizable campfire. His hair hung in greasy strings around his face, and he licked his dirtied fingers between bites of his meal.


Leila stopped short. A sword was leaning against the log, reflecting the flickering flames. She pulled Her ragged hood over Her head before pressing on.


A twig cracked beneath Her foot, and She ground Her teeth. The prisoner looked up from his meal.


“Show yourself,” he barked, hand winding around the hilt of his sword.


Holding Her breath, Leila reached beneath Her cloak, grabbing tight to one of Her daggers. Slowly, She continued forward until the light of the flames cascaded over Her.


The prisoner eyed Her for a short while before easing back into his seat. “Thought you were one of them.” He dropped his sword and tore into a rabbit leg. “How many are left, do you think? We’ll be here all night.”


The foul odor of Her tattered mantle hung over Leila, and She was glad for it. He thought She was one of the prisoners. She came in closer, eyes on his weapon.


The prisoner eyed Her sidelong. “Can you not speak?” His gaze panned between Her and his roasting rabbit. “Fuck off. Catch your own meal.”


Another step forward. She kept Her head low, Her face hidden in shadows, but soon he’d be able to make out Her features. She was almost near enough to touch him.


The prisoner rose to his feet and squared his shoulders. “I told you, this is my hunt.” Leila came in closer, and he bared his teeth. “If you think you can steal from me⁠—”


She ripped Her dagger free and slammed it into the man’s chest repeatedly. His eyes shot wide, but She didn’t falter, blood pouring from each puncture as She skewered him again and again.


The man toppled to the ground and dragged Leila with him, but She didn’t relent. She straddled his waist, plowing Her blade into his mutilated flesh, releasing a fraction of Her pent-up aggression. She wasn’t sure how long he had been dead before She finally stopped, panting as She studied the corpse beneath Her. She had littered him with holes, Her hands and cloak wet with his blood.


Impassively, She sawed off a finger, then washed Her palms in the snow. Her stomach rumbled, and She took a seat on the fallen log, yanking a leg from the roasted rabbit and devouring it without decorum or grace. She needed the energy.


There was one prisoner remaining—one person standing between Her and victory.


She would not be defeated.


She stayed by the fireside, warming Her hands and eating what remained of the rabbit until its bones were picked clean. There was no use in searching for the final prisoner. The forest spanned for miles, and they’d be nearly impossible to find in the dark. Instead, She remained at the campfire, Her swallow resting against the log beside Her latest kill’s sword, Her remaining weapons tucked in Her belt. The prisoner would see the fire. Eventually, they would find Her.


And She would be ready.


She wasn’t sure how long She sat there, staring into the flames. Something within Her felt missing, as if She were a soul untethered from Her body. She drifted in and out of Her physical form, Her thoughts wrapped up in Tobias and Thessen and unfathomable rage, then gone entirely, Her mind as silent as the surrounding forest. There was a peace to not thinking, not feeling, forgetting one’s own existence aside from the aggravating numbness of Her fingers and toes.


Footsteps interrupted the quiet, and Leila returned to Her body. The prisoner broke free from the shadows, his towering form painted orange from the firelight. Leila sat in silence as Her eyes traveled up his immense height. She remembered this man. He was the largest prisoner in the lineup, with ropey arms and a rugged brown beard, and though She couldn’t make them out in the darkness, She remembered his penetrating blue eyes. He was Her final adversary, likely the most lethal of them all.


She would bring him to his knees.


The man eyed Her just as She eyed him, betraying no emotion. “You’re Thessen’s Savior?”


He spoke Her language well. It was unusual for common folk to be multilingual, or so She’d read. The prisoner had held a title at some point. She nodded.


He glanced out at the darkened forest around them. “How many of us remain?”


“Just you and I.”


He adjusted his belt, and that’s when She saw it—the broadsword on his hip, its edge coated in dried blood. He was the one who’d killed the challenger with the auburn beard.


“Do You need a moment?” he said.


“No.” Leila stood, dropping Her ragged mantle to the ground. “I’m ready.”


The prisoner nodded, then pulled his sword free, readying it. “It won’t bring me pleasure to kill You.”


She took Her stance, rage bubbling at the surface, overtaking Her.


“It’ll bring Me great pleasure to kill you.”


The man’s weapon cracked against Hers, sending Her skidding across the ground. She shoved him free and countered, relishing the crack of steel against steel, the strain of Her muscles and the fury within. She ducked beneath his next swing, using Her size to Her advantage, then shadow walked past the campfire. If Her magic surprised him, he didn’t show it, as he barreled Her way without a single hesitation. Each blow She delivered was solid, unyielding, and harder than the last, as She summoned every morsel of fortitude She had left in Her beaten body. There was only one man between Her and victory, and that fact alone fueled Her.


Her feet glided through the snow, nimble and fluid. Their battle was a dance in the Queen’s Forest, their audience the flickering flames. Leila’s body was a symbol of misery, and She reveled in the suffering, reclaiming it as power. Every wound She’d known had reopened, and She fought against them all—against the man in front of Her, against Her own tortured thoughts, against the very reason She’d never known peace. Brontes filled the corners of Her mind, and She let out another roar, Her sword plunging into something firm.


Her weapon was wedged in the prisoner’s stomach.


As She ripped the sword free, the prisoner buckled forward, hands on his knees. Leila knew better than to waste time. She readied Her blade for a final blow, but a massive fist plowed into Her jaw, sending Her staggering, then collapsing.


Away.


Leila burst into light just as the prisoner’s weapon came crashing down. She was behind him, and She aimed for his back only for him to spin toward Her, deflecting Her assault. The wound hadn’t slowed him. Each blow he landed vibrated through Her, his strength something otherworldly. Gritting Her teeth, She pushed him away, and though She didn’t yield, Her breathing had become ragged, Her limbs weak. A slice ripped across Her stomach, and She cried out, clutching the torn flesh. The next blow he landed slashed Her thigh, and She dropped to one knee.


His weapon cracked against Hers, the X of their blades inching toward Her face. The threat of failure hung over Her, a familiar dread. Had She fooled Herself? Brontes was laughing at Her, no doubt, the thought enough to make Her wince. Their crossed swords lurched closer to Her, and She cried out once more, hands trembling and throat raw from strain.


Tobias. The two promises lacing Her wrist were on full display, a reminder of everything She loved—everything at stake. Suddenly, Her wounds were paltry, and Her fire reignited, a power She coveted and craved. She shoved the prisoner aside, then plucked one of the daggers from Her belt and launched it into his chest.


The prisoner staggered backward, clawing at the weapon lodged in his flesh, but Leila didn’t relent. She flung Her second dagger at him, sending him tottering off balance, a moment of weakness She could use. She swept the swallow from its resting place, and just as Her opponent readied his sword, She ran toward him, plowing Her weapon through his gut and slamming him down into the campfire.


The man shrieked, the sound almost shocking coming from such an imposing opponent. Leila stomped on the side of his face, pressing him deeper into the flames. As he flailed beneath Her, She ripped the swallow from his gut and pounded it into his chest once, twice, three times, twisting it until something snapped.


Fire nipped at Her boot, and She stumbled backward, leaving Her conquest amid the blaze. She watched for a moment as his skin bubbled with blisters, then slowly charred amid the flames.


The icy wind sent the red ribbons fluttering against Leila’s wrist. Tobias. There wasn’t time for rest. She yanked one of Her daggers free from the corpse and grabbed at the prisoner’s hand, angling the weapon before stopping short. The ache of Her wounds had returned, but the power of Her wrath lingered, wanting, commanding. With Her jaw clenched, She began to saw.





Guards trailed Leila as She barged into the throne room. She was limping after a long trek through the forest, But She refused to stop, not until She got what She wanted. Whispers followed Her, but Leila paid them no attention, Her sights set on Prisca.


The queen sat casually in her throne, leaning against the armrest as if she’d grown tired of waiting, though something glinted in her gaze when Leila appeared. Enzo and Hylas lingered beside her dais, and they bolted upright, eyes wide and stricken. Soon after, Delphi and Raphael were running into the space, calling Leila’s name, but She was deadened to the sound. Stopping directly in front of Prisca, She dug through Her pocket and tossed the severed fingers to the floor.


“Here are your trophies.”


Prisca’s gaze traveled downward, counting the appendages one by one. Nine. She opened her mouth to speak, but Leila was already untying the makeshift sack hanging at Her hip.


“I almost forgot.”


A charred hand tumbled to the floor, magnificent in its size and state of destruction. Prisca looked down at the maimed limb, then at Leila, a soft smile splitting Her lips.


“A warrior queen through and through.”


“You will advance your army against My father and assist Me in reclaiming My throne,” Leila said. “Only then can Kovahr and Thessen be at peace once again.”


Silence stretched through the throne room while Leila stared at Prisca, willing Her eyes to become daggers. Nervous whispers filled the space, but Leila held firm, taking in the queen’s steadfast smirk, the light strumming of her fingers against the armrest of her throne.


The queen nodded. “So it shall be done.”


Gasps erupted around Leila, but She was overtaken by the victorious thundering of Her war drum heart. She’d known loss and suffering, had doubted Herself time and again, nearly fell victim to Brontes’s voice echoing in Her mind. No more. She was The One True Savior, Queen of Thessen, a fate She’d inherited—a title She’d earned.


“Then our first task is a rescue,” She proclaimed. “My greatest ally has been imprisoned in My father’s stronghold—where it is, I’m uncertain.” Fury still quaked within Her, and She reveled in its unbridled power. “I don’t care if a single life is meaningless to you. We will find Tobias, and we will free him from harm. He’s held amid the same mercenaries My father aims to wield against Kovahr. And so I order you to find this stronghold⁠—”


“We know of stronghold,” Prisca said.


Everything within Leila stilled. “Pardon?”


“The stronghold. We have been watching closely.” Prisca leaned back in her seat. “We will destroy Brontes’s mercenaries—and save Your love, of course.”


Leila was quiet for a long while. Prisca’s words repeated in Her mind, yet somehow they felt far away and muddled, an echo She could only barely make out. “You’ve known where Tobias has been this whole time?”


“As you know well, I have my spies.” Prisca chuckled, glancing at the guards on either side of her before turning to Leila. “It is good for us, yes? We come together.”


Leila didn’t move, didn’t so much as breathe, Her new reality still taking shape in Her mind.


She had Her army.


She’d imagined this moment many times, had expected Her heart to burst, that She might weep with joy. The strongest warriors of all the ally realms were at Her disposal, and here She stood, a warrior queen tasked with leading them all. Prisca waited on her throne, a smile on her lips, and emotion rumbled beneath Leila’s skin—not joy or triumph, but that familiar, all-consuming rage burning straight from Her chest and down Her limbs. She set Her jaw and curled Her blood-stained hands into fists.


“You fucking bitch.”



OceanofPDF.com

c5H
    
  


  


The Dungeon

A fist barreled into his jaw, blackening the world around him. Tobias struggled to right himself, but the soldiers grabbed hold of his arms, dragging him across the dirt floor and tossing him against the wall. Hinges screeched behind him, and he spun toward the noise in time for a blow to land in his gut. The assaults continued as pain burst through his nose, then again in his temple, small explosions radiating past muscle through the thin veil of his flesh.


Tobias went limp while armored soldiers shackled his wrists. A wheel turned and squealed, and his body lurched upright, tall and spread wide, a blank canvas. The soldiers hurried into formation, standing in a line against the stone wall while he remained suspended. Waiting.


Footsteps echoed off the dungeon walls, and red linen flickered down the stairwell.


The sovereign.


Brontes stalked toward the cell, slow and self-possessed. His deep bronze skin was adorned in a golden-stitched drape, his crown placed amid his black curls, but his one-eyed glare spoke of violence barely contained. Tobias thought to lift his head but hadn’t the energy, hanging limp from his chains, gaze pointed at the ground. The cell door creaked open, and sandled feet shuffled into view.


“You’re here,” Brontes said. “How unsurprising.”


Dank heat filled Tobias’s lungs, smothering him with each breath.


“Have you nothing to say to me? No explanation for your king?”


Tobias’s silence was met with a jab to the jaw, a hook to the belly. One by one, the strikes continued, leaving him battered and broken, swollen and bruised.


Once Brontes stepped back, Tobias spat onto the floor, crimson spraying the dirt. Gripping Tobias’s chin, the sovereign looked him in the eye. “I’m going to kill you now. You know that, yes?”


Tobias mustered a chuckle. “You won’t kill me.”


“And why’s that?”


Brontes’s eye narrowed, penetrating. The taste of iron and sweat coated Tobias’s tongue. He licked the blood from his lips.


“Because I know where The Savior is.”



OceanofPDF.com

c5PA
    
  


  


Chapter 37

Tobias


Something clanked in the distance, followed by a slow screech. Tobias stirred, his senses muddled and groggy. His cheek was pressed to the dirt floor of his cell, his throat raw. How long had he slept?


A gravelly voice broke through the haze of his mind. “Your Highness.”


Tobias blinked. A fog blanketed his vision, and he strained to see through it.


“Your Highness,” the voice repeated. “It’s time.”


Tobias hoisted himself to his knees. The silhouette of a towering man was crouched beside him—the warden. If Tobias had been clear of head, perhaps he would’ve fled, but it was all he could manage to remain upright. The warden stood.


“Go.”


He gestured toward the cell door—unlocked and wide open, much like the door to the dungeon itself.


A way out.


Tobias’s vision cleared in an instant, the exit beckoning him, yet he didn’t move. “I can’t.” Fear rooted him in place. “Brontes⁠—”


“Is gone.”


“But his guards⁠—”


“I’ve cleared the path ahead, and I will ensure it remains so.”


Tobias’s heart raced. Freedom. It couldn’t be real. He turned to the neighboring cell, where Pippa sat cradling her knees, her blue-green eyes pointed his way.


“She will be safe,” the warden said, predicting his thoughts.


“You can’t know⁠—”


“I know with certainty.” The warden’s voice had sharpened, an edge of fear in his tone. “You, however, must leave now.”


Tobias’s mouth went dry, panic skittering beneath his flesh. “I don’t understand.”


“She is coming.”


For the first time, Tobias willfully looked the masked man in the eyes.


Leila was here.


The warden took a step back, cocking his head toward the pathway. “Run.”


Tobias glanced once more at Pippa. He’d waited for release, yet still he wavered. The moment felt unreal, a cruel trick played by his mind, another dream from which he’d awaken. But soon, his suffering reclaimed his attention—the pull of his scabs, the ache of his broken bones. The pain was a whisper of what it had been days prior, but it was real.


Run.


Tobias stood, nearly stumbling beneath his own weight before righting himself. He forced his feet to move, then winced. Running was nearly impossible, so he trotted instead, limping out of his cell, then slowly up the stairwell. Each movement was a mile traveled, and He gripped the railing to support his heavy frame, his breathing shallow by the time he reached the dungeon’s doorway.


A room he’d never seen lay ahead—a sparse kitchen with dirty pots and chalices stacked along a wooden table. And directly in front of Tobias, sprawled across the floor, lay a soldier, his neck twisted and armor splattered with blood.


Tobias stepped into the kitchen and over the corpse, keeping his footfalls light. A stone corridor waited ahead, and he tottered through it, his broken arm clutched to his chest. Another set of stairs waited for him, and he growled as he climbed them, breathing through gritted teeth. He stopped short. Another soldier lay haphazardly across the steps, and Tobias winced as he maneuvered around it. Just a few more paces, and he reached the landing, steeling himself before carrying on.


He poured down another corridor, and more bodies littered his path—two guards, a man in a white tunic and colorful drapes, their corpses strewn about as if death itself had paid a visit. The tiniest inkling of hope pulsed within him, urging him to fight past his torture, to keep going, to survive. Windows appeared in the distance letting in the light of the outside world, and a door stood nestled between them. He was almost there.


“Stop!” A soldier rushed down a neighboring hallway, spear at his side. “Guards!”


Before Tobias could react, a colossal man appeared behind the soldier, wrapping an arm around his throat. One sharp squeeze, and a loud crack sent the guard collapsing into a pile. The warden stood over him, eyes on Tobias.


“Go,” he said. “Before the others are summoned.”


Tobias shoved the door open and staggered outside.


The harsh rays of the sun blasted over him, and he shielded his eyes, blinking past his momentary blindness. The path ahead slowly materialized—a massive field, its grass withered and yellowed with death. He stood at the base of a hill, and salvation waited on the other side.


Run.


He trotted ahead, agony splitting through his insides, tearing him in two. Keep going. He had two mostly functioning legs, and he willed them to work faster. The Thessian heat was particularly sweltering, beating down on him like a heavy storm. His curls were already plastered to his face, and sweat burned his eyes, tasted salty against his lips. Still, he scaled the hillside, climbing higher and higher.


Steel clanked behind him, followed by muffled shouting. Soldiers were chasing him. He channeled his very last sliver of fortitude, forcing his legs to pump harder, faster. Twigs and pebbles dug into his bare feet, nearly toppling him, but he righted himself. Hope was alive within him, and he couldn’t crush it. Thundering hooves joined the distant chorus, followed by a whishing past his ears. An arrow shot through the air, sticking into the hillside. Another arrow followed, then another. Tobias broke into a sprint, screaming against the misery of his broken body. He allowed his pain to empower him, each twinge and spasm a war cry. He couldn’t fail, not when he was so close.


He saw it then—a small, white light cresting the high ground, a single star in the heat of day. With it came a rumble, the noise like a tidal wave spilling over the hillside, mighty enough to shake the ground beneath his feet. Horses appeared ahead ridden by leather-clad warriors with shaved heads, braided beards, and clay handprints marking their chests—Kovahrians, hundreds, perhaps thousands of them. All the while, the light grew larger, taking shape into something new—a woman riding a horse of Her own.


Leila.


Another arrow shot past Tobias, but he couldn’t hear it. He was captivated by Leila, the single braid bouncing against Her back like a whip, Her black pants and leathers, the sword at Her hip, and the intensity of Her fiery eyes. The mass of warriors split in two, leaving Leila in their direct center, and Tobias could’ve sworn Her glow shone past the hillside, Her reach limitless. She’d arrived. She’d come for him. He ran faster, desperate for Her soft touch, Her smell. Soldiers were gaining on him, but he was ignited. Just a few more paces.


Leila pulled on Her reins, halting Her horse while Her warriors continued onward. Tobias didn’t stop. His heart thundered against his ribs, and his throat tightened, strangling him with emotion and deprivation. Leila, my love. She dismounted, arms outstretched, and he threw himself into Her embrace, the contact a shock to his senses, reawakening everything good and pure within him.


“Darling,” She cooed, Her whisper a healing melody. “I’ve got you.”


His hands raked up Her back, through Her hair, and he soaked up Her presence, Her strength. For a fraction of a second, nothing had changed—they’d never parted, had never known suffering. But then the loud clank of weapons rang in the distance, and he was reminded of the task ahead—the war they would fight together, united as one.


“I’ve got You too,” he said.


The blaze of Her holy power surged through him like wildfire, and his body dissolved, vanishing in an eruption of light and darkness.



OceanofPDF.com

c5S1
    
  


  


What To Read Next




They have an army. Now they need to win the war. Join Leila and Tobias as they battle against the sovereign to reclaim the crown and free Thessen from tyranny.



OceanofPDF.com

c5SK
    
  


  


Author’s Note

Thank you for reading The Savior’s Army! I’m so glad I was able to share Tobias’s and Leila’s journey with you.


It would mean the world to me if you were able to leave a quick review describing what you enjoyed about this book.


If you’d like to learn more about my upcoming releases—and receive a free behind-the-scenes short story from The Savior’s Series—subscribe to my newsletter.



OceanofPDF.com

c5SZ
    
  


  


Also by Jenna Moreci

THE SAVIOR’S SERIES

The Savior’s Champion


The Savior’s Sister


The Savior’s Army


The Savior’s War (Coming Soon)





JENNA MORECI’S WRITING CRAFT BOOKS

How to Write Romantasy


Shut Up and Write the Book



OceanofPDF.com

c5TR
    
  


  


About the Author




Jenna Moreci is an award-winning romantasy and writing craft author and YouTube sensation. Her first installment in The Savior’s Series, The Savior’s Champion, was voted one of the Best Books of All Time by Book Depository. Following the release of her first writing craft book, Shut Up and Write the Book, she’s been asked to speak for many literary communities and affiliations about the writing process and romantasy genre, including Robinson College at the University of Cambridge, the University of Groningen, and the London Screenwriters’ Festival.


Born and raised in Silicon Valley, Jenna spends her free time snuggling up with her charming husband and their tiny rescue pup, Buttercup.




JennaMoreci.com


     





OceanofPDF.com

c6B
    
  


  


Chapter 1

Tobias


“You need an army?”


“Yes.” Leila swallowed. “Or else Brontes ravages our allies and Thessen is left to rot.”


The campfire crackled. Tobias had coaxed the story from Leila once they’d settled deep in the Krios Woods, shrouded by broadleaf trees and the imposing darkness of night. They were running for their lives, and She’d promised to explain why, to spare no detail. At first, She spoke hesitantly, each word a drop sputtering from a spigot. But eventually Bronte’s plan to assassinate Her and the war that would ensue poured forth in a torrent. Tobias had expected bloodshed, but not this.


“The sovereign is going to colonize the other realms,” he muttered.


“Starting with Kovahr.” Leila’s gaze darted around the campfire. “That’s why I did what I did. I didn’t want to hurt people. But Brontes was going to kill Me, to destroy the realm⁠—”


“You don’t need to explain Yourself,” Tobias said. “You were acting in self-defense for the good of Thessen.”


He balled his hands into fists. Without Leila and Her blessing, the realm would wither away, and its people would die of sickness. Brontes would lay waste to countless lives for his own personal expansion and greed—yet somehow, that wasn’t the worst of it.


“The sovereign . . . trying to kill his own daughter.” Naomi’s voice wavered. Tobias had nearly forgotten about her and their mother, both frozen around the fire. He saw them now though—the blanched fear in Naomi’s face and the curl of his mother’s lips.


“I don’t know what to do now.” Leila looked down at Her lap. “I knew we had to escape—that he’d come for you—but now . . . How am I supposed to gather an army? Brontes has the entire Thessian armed force, plus countless sellswords.”


“You have Your magic.”


“And what will that do? Am I to heal Brontes to death? Bless him into submission? My power has its uses, but it’s not much of a weapon.”


She was right. How in God’s name were they supposed to assemble an army? Leila, the Holy Savior of Thessen, dethroned and forced into hiding. His mother and sister, villagers who’d never known tactics and treachery. Tobias, a laborer somehow leading them all.


“We’ll get You an army,” he said. “I swear it.”


Some semblance of calm swept Leila’s face, and Tobias squared his shoulders, carrying Her troubles as his own. “Tomorrow will be a long day. You should rest.” He turned to his mother and sister, ignoring the tension working its way through his body. “I’ll keep watch.”


They settled their campsite, pouring dirt over the cinders and fashioning pillows out of lumpy satchels. Tobias’s mother rolled onto her side facing away from the others while Tobias leaned against a fallen log, looking out into the woods. The bandages wrapping his torso pulled. It surprised him how little the lacerations on his back hurt, until he remembered the ball of healing light in his lap. Leila nestled against his chest, eyes closed, Her black cloak slung over them both like a blanket.


She was the reason he’d survived the Sovereign’s Tournament. She was the source of his fading wounds, his flourishing strength, his swiftly improving fighting prowess. If She needed an army, he would give Her that and more. It was the least he could do. He would give Her anything She desired.


“My brother, the next sovereign.”


Naomi lay across from him, smiling. Tobias left a gentle kiss on Leila’s forehead.


“Do you love Her?” Naomi whispered. Tobias nodded. “Then I love Her too.”


“You’ll love Her on your own, regardless of me.”


“I want to hear it. Your entire romance, from start to finish. You can leave out the more intimate details—I’d rather not vomit—but I want to hear the rest.”


“Another time.” Tobias threaded his fingers through Leila’s hair. “Maybe Leila can tell you. She’d be better at it.”


“Can you tell me about Her?”


“She’s perfect.”


A grin blossomed on Naomi’s face, and the weight on Tobias’s shoulders eased. Naomi’s gaze flitted to The Savior in his lap. “We should stop. We might disturb Her.”


“Don’t stop. I’m enjoying your conversation,” Leila said.


Tobias and Naomi chuckled while Leila’s eyes remained shut, a smile playing at Her lips. At some point both his sister and his beloved fell asleep, and Tobias gazed into the darkness.





Light stung Tobias’s eyelids. Blinding white flashed in his memory—visions of Leila standing in the fortress arena, Her flesh aglow.


“As your Savior, I command you, drop your sword.”


Leila’s voice was an echo in his mind. Perhaps the Sovereign’s Tournament had never ended. Perhaps he was still splayed across the sand, carved and bloody, waiting as his life slipped away—as Leila became someone else entirely.


A second beam of light sent him wincing. There were no stacked stones or cheering spectators, just hard dirt, pestering flies, and the drooping trees of the Krios Woods. Naomi sat across from him sharpening a blade with a smooth stone, the steel gleaming against the harsh afternoon sun. She caught his gaze and smirked. “You were snoring, you know.”


Tobias’s nerves settled. He’d only just escaped the tournament yesterday, and its impact was a fresh wound cutting through his psyche. Shaking the visions aside, he yawned and stretched his aching muscles. His watch had ended early in the morn, and Leila had insisted he rest. “I can protect your family.” Guilt had laced Her words, but he’d yielded, managing a few measly hours of sleep.


Leila. His mother was off to the side of the campsite whittling wood in silence, but no Leila.


There. She stood on a distant hillside, gazing out at whatever loomed ahead. He heaved a silent sigh of relief.


“She’s been standing there for a while now,” Naomi said. “I think She’s overwhelmed.”


“I’ll talk to Her.”


The back of Leila’s black cloak was pointed his way, Her bright white hands balled at Her sides. His eyes had already adjusted to Her light, but his mind was still turning it over.


“You hadn’t a clue She was The Savior?” Naomi said.


Tobias shook his head. “Not at all.” He met his sister’s gaze only for her to purse her lips, an eyebrow raised. “What?”


“She’s glowing, Tobias.”


“She wasn’t glowing during the tournament.”


“She disappears into black clouds.”


Tobias sighed. “It was all very complicated.”


“She heals wounds with Her hands.”


“And off I go.” Tobias stood, brushing the dirt from his ass before marching past the woods. As the hill steepened, sunlight and the whole of Thessen extended before him, but his eyes were drawn to the black cloak paces ahead and the beaming light radiating around it, pulsing like a heartbeat.


“Darling, are You all right?”


Leila’s shoulders rose and fell as She let out a breath. “It’s just . . . this is My realm. I’ve never seen it before. It’s so beautiful.”


“A beautiful realm for a beautiful queen.” Tobias wrapped his arms around Her waist. “You don’t regret it, do You? Fleeing the palace. Coming with me.”


“No. You were right. I had to leave. And I’m so thankful you’re here.” She turned toward him, giving him ample view of Her fiery yellow eyes and glowing white skin. “It’s just all so much. I’ve always wanted to leave—to see My realm. But under these circumstances? I can’t believe it. I’m free, yet I’ve lost everything.”


“You haven’t. And You won’t.” He cracked a smile. “This is just a small adventure.”


“You’re mad.”


“When I entered the Sovereign’s Tournament, I thought I’d wind up dead. Instead, here I stand with You.” Tobias cupped Her cheeks. “You and I tend to have good luck together, wouldn’t You agree?”


He expected Her to falter, but She hopped onto Her toes, kissing him hard.


He grinned against Her mouth. “Now that I know the Sovereign’s Tournament was Your competition, I have a bone to pick with You. You have no idea what I went through to qualify.”


Leila rolled Her eyes. “Oh please.”


“I’m serious! They examined me. Naked.”


“You look quite handsome naked.”


“They measured my cock!”


“Your cock is quite handsome too.” Leila fluttered Her eyelashes.


“I had to masturbate into a cup.”


Leila nearly started. “You what?”


“I think I speak clearly.”


She tilted Her head back, exploding into laughter.


“You’re laughing?” he scoffed. “It was terrible! You’re being incredibly insensitive right now.”


Her lips collided with his, and She laced Her arms around his neck. “Was I worth it?”


“I’d do it again a thousand times.”


“You’d masturbate into a cup a thousand times?”


“You know what I mean.” He chuckled. “I know our circumstances are trying, but for the first time in so long, I’m happy. Because You’re mine.”


Leila rested Her head against his collarbone, their hands locked tight as She softened into his embrace.


“This will sound strange I’m sure,” he said. “I know we’re on the run—in all sorts of danger, really—but I feel . . . I don’t know . . . free, almost.”


“From the tournament?”


“Well, that, but also knowing who You really are. That I’m not promised to Cosima or anyone else.” He looped a long strand of Her blackish-brown hair around his fingers, admiring the way it shone beneath the sunlight. “We don’t have to hide our affection, and I can finally romance You properly.”


Leila’s gaze brightened, the flames of Her irises flickering to life.


“What?” he said.


“I thought you were already romancing Me properly before. I’m excited to see what else you have planned.”


A familiar smile spread across Her lips, and suddenly the newness of Her light wasn’t quite so unusual. She was still the same woman—somewhat small in stature, with full lips and upturned eyes canopied by thick lashes. He could even make out the freckle above her cheek despite the piercing glow of Her skin—skin that would fade to ivory as soon as She entered the shadows, just as Her eyes would fade from yellow to the vivid amber he knew. Somehow everything was different, yet nothing had changed.


Tobias brought Her hand to his mouth and kissed it, and pride swelled in his chest when She bit Her lip. He gestured toward their campsite. “Come. We’ve a long day ahead.”


She followed him with ease, hand wrapped in his as they headed down the hillside toward their shaded campsite. My love. A foolish grin threatened to split his face, but his mother and sister waited in the distance scrutinizing their every step, and he set his jaw.


Silence fell over the group, drawing a line between his new life and the old. Leila dropped Tobias’s hand and pressed down the pleats of Her dress. “Naomi, how about I tend to your back?”


She hurried to his sister, the two women speaking in hushed tones paces away. His mother hovered beside the campfire, peeling a potato over a pot of vegetable stew. He took a seat next to her. “Are you all right?”


Her eyes remained on her blade, her lips thin. “As ‘all right’ as one can be on the run in the woods.”


“It’s only temporary. This is the safest option for all of us.”


She sliced the potato into even pieces, dropping them into the pot before picking up another. She pointed her blade at the bowl beside her filled with washed fruit. “Go on. Eat.”


Tobias bit into a red apple, forcing a chuckle. “Even out in the middle of nowhere, you still find a way to make it feel like home.”


Her gaze was set on her work, though the light brown of her eyes had glassed over. She hadn’t spoken much since they’d fled from their cottage, and he could’ve sworn her dark circles had deepened overnight.


“If I’ve upset you . . .” Tobias said. “I never intended to be a burden⁠—”


“You almost died in front of me. More than once.” Her jaw tightened. “I watched you fight, and bleed, and kill.”


Kill. Tobias almost winced, the word somehow more shameful on his mother’s tongue.


“Then you return, and . . .” Her voice trembled, and her gaze glistened. “I’d prayed for it over and over, but still I never thought I’d see the day.” She wiped her eyes and straightened. “Then suddenly we’re being chased by soldiers, and then we’re in the Krios Woods, and there’s a godforsaken war.”


“I’m sorry, Mother.”


“I just need time to think.”


“I understand.” He watched the swift flick of her wrist, the blade carving away at the root. “I’m still the same person. Nothing’s changed.”


Flick. Flick. Another potato dropped into the pot, and she grabbed a third.


“Everything will be fine.” He waited for a response, and when none came, he rested a hand on her back. “Mother?”


“Everything will be fine. I heard you.”


She continued her work, leaving Tobias in silence. Leila was still with Naomi kneading the muscle around her spine, but Her eyes were set on him, ripe with unspoken worries. He swallowed and stood.


“I think it’s time we discuss a course of action.”


All three women looked to him. Leila opened Her mouth to speak, then stopped short. He wished She hadn’t.


“I know this is hard for everyone.” Tobias sucked in a slow breath. “The decision didn’t come lightly. We just didn’t have a choice.”


“We can’t wander out here forever.” Naomi glanced among the others. “We’re in the woods. What if wolves strike? What if it rains?”


“It won’t rain,” Leila said.


“How do You⁠—?”


“Trust Me.”


“For now, we focus on safety.” Tobias squared his shoulders, wrangling all the assurance he could summon. “None of this matters if we’re discovered. It is of the utmost importance we remain unseen. We save the army for another day, once we have a better gauge of Brontes’s plan. Agreed?”


Leila and Naomi nodded while his mother sat still by the campfire, her expression unreadable. He couldn’t fault her reluctance. It wasn’t as though he had a contingency plan, or even a second step. For God’s sake, how does one gather an army?


Focus. One brushstroke at a time, after all. Perhaps he didn’t need to see the end, just the path directly in front of him. If he couldn’t gather an army, he could provide something else of value.


“I’m going to the capital.”


Leila started. “What?” She stood. “You just said our focus is safety.”


“Your safety,” he said.


“And you’ll be off gallivanting in the capital?”


“I’ll be discreet.”


“This is senseless.” She charged his way, wide eyes searching his. “Brontes is looking for both of us.”


“Yes. And we haven’t a clue where, or by what means.”


“We’re hidden in these woods.”


“We’re also blind.”


Leila looked up at him, lips parted, the silent words on Her tongue failing to take form.


“Heralds bring news from the palace to every city square.” He tossed an olive-green cloak around his shoulders and fastened it at his neck. “And if there isn’t a herald, word has surely spread through other means. I’ll keep my ears open. See what we’re up against.” He took Her hands. “I’ll only be gone a short while.”


“You begged for us to stay together.”


“And I stand by that.” He ran his thumb over Her knuckles. “A short while. On my life.”


The fear in Her gaze cut deep, sending his heart beating a hair faster. Smirking, he leaned close. “It’s going to take a lot more than this to get rid of me. If Kaleo couldn’t do the job, I don’t know what will.”


A smile flickered across Her lips, then disappeared, replaced with a scowl. “That’s not funny.”


“I’ll be as quick as I can manage.” He threw on his hood, cocking his head at his mother and sister. “Guard them while I’m gone.” He turned to them. “You’ll be all right?”


His mother remained thin-lipped and silent. Naomi glanced between her and Tobias. “We’ll be fine. Just be safe.”


Tobias nodded, strapping a blade to each of his thighs, then sheathing a sword at his waist. Leila’s eyes swept each weapon, racked with worry. He wished he could fix that.


I will fix that.


He lifted the front of his shirt. “Do the honors?”


Leila’s gaze darted from the shiny steel to his abdomen. With rosy cheeks, She pressed Her palm to his chest. “Give him the gift,” She whispered to someone or something—perhaps to Her light, or maybe to God itself. Whatever it was, Her hand became a burning ember against his skin. “Let him walk in the shadows. Safely.”


The heat of Her touch turned blazing, a bit too much to bear before it thankfully faded away. When She dropped Her hand, he glanced down at his own chest, expecting to see a glowing handprint radiating from his flesh, but there was nothing.


“My power only glows in the sunlight.” Leila shook out Her wrist, avoiding his gaze. “Think of the capital. See yourself there, and⁠—”


“I know.” Tobias smiled. “I’ll be back soon.”


“How will he get back?” Naomi said.


“The blessing works for as long as it’s intended. I give My light a task, and it obeys.” Leila looked to Tobias, speaking more to him than to his sister. “Until he returns to us, the shadow walking will be at his disposal.”


“Can’t You bless him indefinitely?” his mother added. “Keep him safe for however long?”


Leila’s expression dimmed. “There are limitations. The sun, however bright, eventually sets. My light cannot last outside My touch forever. At some point, it will fade.” Her expression became fierce and focused. “Which is all the more reason for you to make your excursion brief.”


The gravity of Her words weighed down on him. He nodded, turning away before the fear in Her gaze could take root in his belly.


The capital’s shopfronts and raucous crowds filled his mind, painting a picture from memory. Soon after, his chest burned once again, except this time Leila’s light spread everywhere, streaming down his limbs and swirling behind his eyes until the world around him flashed white.


When his sight returned, Leila wasn’t beside him any longer.


Tall buildings of the marketplace—a limestone inn, marble pillars, and a bathhouse made of terracotta bricks—cast shadows over him, barely suppressing the summer heat. A plaster wall cracking with age blocked his vision, the paved ground beneath him narrow and spattered with questionable fluids. The watering hole alleyway was just as he remembered—dank and stinking of piss, certainly not a place to lurk in the daytime. He had counted on that.


Masking all but his eyes with his cloak’s cowl, he steeled himself and stepped out of the shadows.


The blazing sun blinded him for a moment before revealing a stretch of beige and yellow—a sandy road littered with shuffling people and lined with bustling shopfronts, their thatched roofs the color of wheat. The scent of roasted boar carried through the air; a hog hung from a spit outside a butchery, and Tobias was tempted to count the coin in his pocket and return to the woods with a proper meal.


No one can see me. It didn’t matter if he had been nothing to the realm a mere thirty-one days ago. Since that fateful day he’d run to the pool barefoot, everything had changed.


People swarmed the capital streets, huddling around wooden carts and hurrying from shop to shop with goods in arm. Many faces wore the same frenzied expression as if panic had swept the city, taking everyone in its hold. A woman in a leaden blue dress ignored the screaming baby in her arms as she spoke in hushed tones with a street vendor. Tobias came in closer, pretending to eye the sweet rolls as they exchanged words.


“Gone . . . Just gone.” The woman’s voice trembled. “She disappeared.”


The vendor wrapped cheese in cloth, her skin ashen. “Do you think She’s⁠—?”


“Don’t say it. We can’t risk the bad fortune.”


“Do you think he’d do something to Her?”


“Your tongue will be our downfall.” The woman snatched up her purchase. “No such talk. You’ll curse us all.”


She left in a huff, and Tobias followed before the vendor could offer him her assistance. He trekked down the road, weaving between passersby dressed in auburn tunics and harem pants the color of mud. The wealthier patrons wore fine linen drapes and dresses lined in geometric stitching, with golden baubles on their belts and jangling from their wrists. He wove between them, hoping to make out their whispers.


“Calix aims to sell his property. He and his family are leaving at once.”


“Already?”


“If She’s dead, the rest of us aren’t far behind.”


Tobias frowned beneath his cowl. A woman cried silent tears on the shoulder of her stern-faced husband, servants walked in a line murmuring behind their hands, and two light-skinned men barked in hostile Kovahrian about something clearly of grave importance. Whether he heard their words or not, the issue was clear.


Leila.


“Heralds will arrive shortly. They have to.” A man flipped a coin between his fingers. “They can’t keep us waiting like this.”


His eyes were trained on the distant dais in the center of the square, a raised platform of the same beige pavement as the road beneath him. People were already collecting, straining their necks as they peered ahead, trying to make out a glint of silver armor.


Any moment now.


“I’ve seen them.”


Tobias’s muscles flexed. Two men—one bald, the other burly and bearded—stood beside a shopfront picking through a basket of dates. Shifting his cowl up the bridge of his nose, Tobias lingered.


“You’ve seen them?”


“Patrolling the streets. Entire units, fully armed.”


Tobias loosened the slightest bit. He kept his eyes on a barrel of olives, his mind turning over their words.


The man scratched his beard. “That confirms it. She’s missing.”


“This reeks of the Outlands. They grind witches to dust there. Imagine what they’d do to The Savior. Her magic must be worth all the coin in the world.”


The bearded man shook his head. “The Artist is a true Thessian in home and blood. You can tell by the bronze of his skin.”


“I’m not concerned about the Artist.”


“No loitering.” A gravelly-voiced shopkeeper crossed his arms, his hooded eyes glaring at Tobias. “Either make a purchase or move along.”


Tobias steered away from the storefront, vanishing into the mix of people. The mass had become dense, and he wove through the thick of it, a faceless man the same as the next. A passerby collided against his hip—and the scabbard along with it—and he slid his fingers up the aged leather, wrapping them tight around the hilt of his sword.


The horde came to a stop, all eyes pointed ahead. Tobias craned over heads and shoulders, tracing their gazes to the dais.


Still empty.


The passing slowness was a sharp poker stabbing him from the inside. A man near him let out a sigh and ran a hand across his sweaty forehead. “Everything’s fine,” he said to no one at all. “If something was wrong, they would’ve alerted us at once.”


Metal clanked in the distance, cutting through the din of voices. The red crest of a helmet came into view and sunlight glimmered against the floral plating of a silver breastplate. One guard turned into five, then ten, and soon twenty armored soldiers were marching toward the dais, spears in hand and swords at their hip. The people buzzed with nervous energy while Tobias’s eyes flitted between each weapon.


The crowd parted, murmuring as the guards strode up to the dais far too small for their numbers. Tobias had never seen such an escort for a simple herald, but then again, nothing about the day was simple.


The soldiers took formation, assembling into two long lines alongside the platform, spears crossed into X’s. Before Tobias stood white tunics and flaxen harem pants covered in steel plates, sandled feet laced with leather, but no royal drape, no parchment scroll.


No herald.


A single soldier, his face hidden by his helmet, stepped onto the dais. “Citizens of Thessen, we bear news from the palace as dictated by his highness, our sovereign.”


Whispers ebbed and flowed across the road. An announcement from the royal guard itself. Tobias tightened his grip on his hilt.


“Yesterday, during the Culmination of the esteemed Sovereign’s Tournament, our One True Savior disappeared with favored competitor, the Artist, at Her side,” the soldier said. “It appears some manipulation of dark magic unknown to the palace was used in the escape.”


Dark magic. The words floated around Tobias in hushed, fearful voices. Leila burst into black clouds in Tobias’s mind, and his gut wound into a knot.


“After much investigation, the royal guard can confirm without doubt that the Artist has kidnapped Her Holiness.” Gasps resounded through the crowd, but the soldier continued. “He seeks to end Her life and reign.”


Air evacuated Tobias’s lungs, his being sucked dry.


Kidnapped.


“The guard has reason to believe the Artist’s treason is a retaliation due to his failure in the Sovereign’s Tournament. He now seeks vengeance against our blessed Ruler.” The soldier’s voice rose, carrying above the din of the crowd. “We’ve yet to determine how he came to wield dark magic, but evidence suggests he absconded with The Savior’s power during their brief and infrequent time alone.”


“Is that possible?” The people glanced between one another. “Absconded? How?” The sword shook against Tobias’s hip, and he realized it was his own trembling hold making the weapon dance, his fingers digging in with a hateful grip.


“This news is troubling for all, and indeed for our righteous sovereign,” the soldier said. “While his royal highness has vowed to exhaust all resources in the search for his beloved daughter, he asks that you remain vigilant during these trying times and that you heed these final words.”


Tobias noticed it then—a blaze crackling amid his insides, crawling up his throat, blackening his tongue. Brontes’s rigid face filled his mind, and when the soldier shared his final words, Tobias heard the low growl of the sovereign’s voice, saw the satisfaction in his one good eye.


“The Artist is a fugitive of the Sovereign’s Tournament and traitor to Thessen. A generous reward will go to anyone who returns him to the palace, dead or alive.”



OceanofPDF.com

c9
    
  


  




OceanofPDF.com

cD5
    
  


  


Chapter 2

Leila


Silence hung over the campsite, leaving Leila restless. Yucana had been fretting over the fire for slow-passing hours, preparing enough stew to be wasteful, though Leila would never speak such a thing. Naomi sat curled up in the same spot as always, sometimes polishing their collection of weapons, other times weaving blades of grass into bracelets and crowns.


Tobias was gone.


As soon as he’d awoken in the morning, he’d refused to stay in one place for too long. First, he’d surveyed the woods for soldiers, then covered his tracks, then took a piss, any excuse to keep himself occupied. He’d been that way since his return from the capital the day prior—reticent and brooding. The grey wisps tumbling from his flesh only affirmed his over-burdened thoughts. Leila was used to seeing people’s wants and feelings in strings of color, but Tobias’s ugly emotions always pulled at Her heart.


The sun sagged nearer to the tree line, turning Leila’s skin from bright white to a muted glow. The shrubbery shuffled, and Leila spun toward it as Tobias appeared, a rabbit tossed over his shoulder. Leila hopped up from the ground and hurried his way.


“You caught one.” She eyed the bloodied carcass, Her stomach twisting. “How delightful.”


“Figured it might be a bit more filling than another night of potato stew.” His full eyebrows were furrowed—the same scowl he’d left with.


“You seem in . . . good spirits,” Leila said.


“Someone’s watching us.”


Leila tensed. She glanced between Tobias’s distant gaze and the surrounding trees. “You’re sure?”


“Just a feeling I have.”


Her shoulders drooped. She didn’t need to see his colors. The sullen look on his face spoke volumes.


“Is this because of yesterday?”


Tobias sighed. “Leila . . .”


“They won’t find us. There’s an entire realm for them to search.”


“Best to remain on guard. They’re tracking a fugitive.” His jaw flexed. “I imagine Brontes has entire battalions on the hunt.”


“He’s saving face. Trying to deflect suspicion.” She came in closer, searching his eyes. “People saw us in the arena together. They saw you collapse. They must know you couldn’t have possibly⁠—”


“It’s fine. I just want to keep You safe, that’s all.”


Grey wafted from his body like plumes of smoke. Leila swallowed Her protests, glancing across the campsite at Yucana and Naomi. “Your mother and sister . . .”


“I’ll tell them later. They’re already struggling to adjust. No need to make it worse.” He rubbed the fresh stubble lining his chin. “It’ll be dark soon. We need firewood.” He met Leila’s gaze, and his expression softened. “Watch over them, will You?”


“Of course.”


He pressed a kiss to Her cheek before disappearing into the woods, leaving Leila with his mother, his sister, and a dead rabbit.


The silence nipped at Her upon its return. Naomi sat in her usual spot weaving another grass braid, and Yucana was still stirring the pot on the perfectly tended-to fire. Leila glanced down at the same dress in lilac silk She’d been wearing for the past three days, its hemline browning from the forest floor, the slender straps and cinched waist wet with sweat. So much for a decent first impression. Then again, that had come and gone already, when She’d whisked Tobias and his family away from their home, thrusting them into a war.


She clasped Her black cloak at Her neck and headed Yucana’s way.


Tobias’s mother was a woman soft in body and hard in face. There were traces of her son in her features—the sharp angles of her chin and cheekbones, the golden undertones of her tawny skin—but her eyes were smaller and a much lighter, woody brown, her nose gentler with the slightest bump along its bridge. She looked up as Leila approached, and Leila froze within her gaze.


“Your son has brought us a treat for dinner.” Leila raised the limp rabbit and forced a smile. “I thought you and I could prepare it together.”


“You know how to cook?” Yucana said.


“Well, not entirely. But today’s as good as any to learn.”


“You want me to teach You?”


“Not if it’s an inconvenience.”


Yucana held Her gaze for a second longer before returning to her work, leaving Leila to fidget, carcass in hand. Nerves fluttering, She took a seat at the woman’s side, watching her fingers dance over the fire as she sliced carrots methodically. Yucana moved with an effortless grace, easy like the grey swirling through the waves of her brown hair, while Leila sat tight and strained.


“I know I’ve said it before . . .” Leila coughed out an unconvincing laugh. “I’m probably driving you mad repeating Myself, but I very much appreciate you cooking for us. It’s been such a help, what with Tobias and I making our plans, and Naomi . . .” She eyed his sister, who was still braiding grass, and cleared Her throat. “And you’re such a fine cook as well. Your stew is positively delicious.”


“You’re too kind, Your Holiness.”


“Oh no, please, call Me Leila. I mean, we’re practically family now.” Leila reconsidered Her statement. “Or maybe not now, but we might be one day. I mean, I’m not trying to be presumptuous. I just . . .” She grappled for the right words, sighing when none came. “I suppose it would be nice to get to know one another better, is all. I have so many questions for you.”


“You’re welcome to ask.”


Leila exhaled. “Wonderful.” She sat up straighter. “Do you enjoy flowers? I had a garden back at the palace. It was so beautiful—like a dream come to life. My favorite are lilies. Any kind of lily, really. I was just wondering if you had a preference as well.”


Yucana turned to Leila—eye-contact, finally—and offered a sad smile. “Flowers are lovely, but I don’t believe I have a preference, no. Unfortunately, we weren’t able to afford them, especially after my husband’s passing.”


As she went to work skinning the rabbit, Leila cowered. “My apologies . . . Well, if you have any questions for Me, I’d be happy to answer.”


Yucana paused, fingers wet with blood. “You taught Tobias, yes?”


“Pardon?”


“To fight. To kill.” Yucana met Leila’s gaze. “You taught my son.”


The leather sheath and the blade it carried became heavy against Leila’s thigh, a lead weight poking free from the slit of Her dress. She shuffled Her legs, covering it. “I taught him to defend himself, yes.”


“How did You pick up such a skill?”


Leila’s throat tightened. “The palace warden. We trained in secret.” Yucana nodded. Another spell of silence lingered, but this one was wounding, with the ugliest parts of Leila on display. “I’m going to check on Naomi.”


Hurrying off, Leila cursed under Her breath. The campsite around Her blurred, and for a moment She lost Herself, too overwhelmed by Her blaring heartbeat to feel a firm footing on the ground. The fortress may have been miles away, but She hadn’t truly escaped Her father. She was caught in his grip, forever reminded of his influence, the way he’d wriggled beneath Her skin, how his sheer existence had irreparably marred Her. Even as She hid in the woods with Tobias and his family, it still somehow felt as though he had won.


Her vision cleared, pulse racing in Her throat. She took in a steadying breath. “How are you feeling?”


Naomi sat atop mismatched blankets strewn across the ground, grass crowns and bracelets layered in her lap. Her smile was reminiscent of a grimace. “Better, a little. I think.”


“It’s all right if you don’t feel any different. Some injuries take longer to heal than others.”


“I just don’t want You to think You’ve done a poor job.”


“The job isn’t finished until you’re improved,” Leila said. “I’m here to help in any way I can.”


Naomi sighed. “Well, in that case, it feels a bit . . . worse.”


“Worse?”


“The pain. It’s sharper, and more . . . I don’t know. Nagging.”


Explosions. Leila recalled the feeling the first time She had touched Naomi’s spine, how it had shocked Her. How could the pain have got worse than that?


Leila took a seat. “Let Me have a look.”


“Thank You, Your Holiness.”


“Please don’t call Me that.” Leila stopped short, cringing. “Apologies, I mean⁠—”


“Oh no, I understand. It’s so formal. I just wasn’t sure—didn’t want to make any assumptions.” Chuckling, Naomi lowered the sleeves of her dress, baring her back. “I imagine none of Your friends call You Your Holiness. That would be silly, wouldn’t it?”


Friends. The word stung, but Leila shook it off, bracing Herself for the task ahead. Naomi smiled at Her over her shoulder, and Leila could see Tobias in his twin sister’s features. They had the same dark brown hair, though Naomi’s flowed in loose waves down her shoulders. The same tawny skin, though Naomi’s was a shade lighter and scattered with the occasional freckle. The same large eyes nearly the color of ink, but in the light they shone a deep sable brown, at least if Leila looked close enough.


Naomi’s spine from her nape to the small of her back was exposed and waiting. Holding Her breath, Leila pressed Her hands in its direct center, swallowing a retch as flames blasted against Her palms. The pain was different than before—a steady firestorm, popping like embers beneath Her touch.


Give her strength. Mend the wound. Her palms warmed with power, releasing the force of Her eager light.


“What do You see?”


Leila flinched. Naomi was watching Her over her shoulder. “Pardon?” Leila said.


“When You do that.” Naomi gestured to Leila’s hands. “Your eyes get so small, like You’re concentrating on something far away. I just assumed You could see something.”


Leila’s gaze swept over Naomi’s full cheeks and slender frame. Perhaps no one would even be able to tell she was paralyzed if not for the gaunt shape of her legs beneath her dress and the ashen look of her limp feet.


“It’s a feeling. I can feel your injury.”


“You can feel the pain?”


Another ember sizzled beneath Leila’s palm, and She bit back a wince. “Some of the damage . . . there’s no response. Gone, beyond repair.” Naomi’s shoulders slumped, and Leila quickly continued. “But a great deal of it . . . I can feel it stirring, begging to be rekindled. It drinks My light up like a sponge.”


“What does that mean?”


Leila thought for a moment, selecting Her words with care. “It’s a complex injury. I can’t make you the way you once were. But I can make you stronger than you are now, at least in some way.”


“I don’t have to walk again.”


“I know,” Leila said. “And I can’t guarantee particulars. But I promise, I’ll do everything in My power to help.”


“The pain⁠—”


“Is My utmost priority. But I can’t treat it without treating the injury as a whole.”


Naomi nodded, releasing Leila from her gaze. Another pop burst beneath Leila’s palm. The pain had spiked, roused by Her touch, and She forced another surge of light.


“Do You know why it’s worse?” Naomi asked. “Can You tell?”


Leila hesitated, then deepened Her touch, setting Her jaw to fight past the torment. Tiny sparks erupted throughout Naomi’s body, and Leila followed them as they traveled down her back, her thighs, her feet.


“There’s a spider’s web inside you.”


Naomi laughed. “A spider’s web?”


“In everyone. Woven strings carrying every sensation we feel. Pain. Pleasure. All of it.” Leila focused on the flux of Her power, guiding its course. “When you broke your back, the web was torn. Those severed strings . . . it’s as if they’ve fallen into a deep sleep.”


“My legs.”


“Yes. But the web can repair itself, sometimes on its own, other times⁠—”


“With a bit of help.”


“Right,” Leila said. “That means some of those strings are awakening. And they’re distraught. Confused.”


“They’re bloody assholes, is what they are.”


Leila chuckled. “They’re not entirely sure what they’re supposed to be doing, but they’ll figure it out, eventually.”


Naomi’s gaze panned to the woods. “So, You’re saying it’s going to get worse before it gets better.”


“Yes.”


Quiet stretched between them, until Naomi raised her chin and smiled. “Then I will relish the pain.”


“I’ll make you a masochist yet.” Leila met Naomi’s smile with Her own.


Naomi winced, stiffening beneath her torment. “You could see all that? Or feel it, I mean—the spider’s web, with Your magic?”


“Tutors taught Me of the web. There are more appropriate terms for it, I promise. My light just tells Me where I need to focus My efforts.”


Naomi nodded. “Apologies for prodding. It’s fascinating, is all. I’ve always been like that—dying to know how things worked. Anything, really. I just hope I’m not bothering You, Leila.”


Leila’s name on Naomi’s tongue sent warmth blooming in Her chest. She fought back a smile. “I don’t mind at all.”


Another bolt tore from Naomi’s spine, sharp enough to make Leila flinch. Naomi’s frame had shifted, her flesh and bones a shield; her back was rigid, her muscles taut, and her hands were curled into fists in her lap.


Ease the pain. The blessing repeated in Leila’s mind, and the fire languished per Her holy bidding. “We should stop for now. Give you some time to rest.”


Naomi exhaled. “If You insist,” she said, her words calm and casual, as if she was accustomed to misery. “But I’m fine. I promise.”


Leila took in Naomi’s gaze—dark, just like Tobias’s—then eyed the horizon. The sun had nearly finished its descent, painting the sky the shades of a fresh bruise. “It’s getting late. I should find your brother.”


She squeezed Naomi’s shoulder before heading off, venturing through the same shrubbery Tobias had disappeared into earlier. She wasn’t supposed to leave his family, but they were starkly alone, and he couldn’t have gone too far. Gnarled branches and stray twigs pulled at Her dress and cloak, and She found a new appreciation for the palace gardeners and the neat, crisp shape of the fortress trees. It wasn’t long before the foliage became dense around Her, the sky darkening much quicker than She had anticipated. Perhaps wandering through the woods hadn’t been the greatest idea. She planted Her hand on the blade on Her thigh, Her worries easing if only slightly.


She lurched to a stop, then hurried toward the sound of swishing and panting to Her left.


A small clearing opened around Her, revealing a vast circle of tree stumps, a stack of logs and branches waist high, and Tobias’s back, hunched and wet with sweat. He hacked at a tree, muscles flexed, each strike violent and intentional. The air around him had filled with color—blood red, a vicious haze surging straight from his skin. Another narrow tree tumbled, and he tossed it onto the massive pile, moving to his next target with murderous resolve.


“I don’t think we need that much,” Leila said.


Tobias flinched, spinning toward Her. “Apologies.” He dropped his axe. “I got a little overzealous.”


The red around him evaporated, but Leila could still taste it in the air, could feel the sting in Her nostrils. She picked at the frayed edge of Her cloak. “Our circumstances. They’re bothering you.”


“No, no, it’s just . . .” He snatched up his sleeveless tunic and threaded it over his head. “Brontes. The tournament. Things I’d rather forget.”


“You can come to Me, you know. You don’t have to hack away at trees.”


“I don’t want to burden You.”


“Burden Me. I want you to.” She came in closer, taking his hands. “I mean it. I want you to.”


Tobias avoided Her gaze. His tawny skin shone blue, and though the sharp lines of his jaw and cheekbones caught what little light remained, he looked one with the night, his black harem pants and deep green tunic melding him with the darkness. He fussed with his hair, and when his hands settled, She took them once more.


“We take care of one another,” She said.


His lips parted, but he stopped short, frozen for some time before exhaling. “Right.” He shook himself. “You’re right.”


“You told Me no more secrets. That goes both ways.”


Sighing, his gaze met Hers. “A traitor to Thessen. That’s what he called me.”


“You know it isn’t true.”


“He’s speaking it throughout the realm, a message from the sovereign himself.” A vein bulged in his neck. “He had all those men slaughtered. He nearly killed both of us.” Tobias ground his teeth. “I hate him, Leila. It fills every part of me. I hate him so much.”


“I’m so sorry.”


“Don’t. You didn’t cause this.”


His eyes became distant—large, aching, and pitch black against the night. She swept the curls from his forehead. “We’ll get through this. I have the utmost faith.” She spun a singular strand of hair around Her finger, eyeing how it faded from a rich brown to gold at the tip. She rested Her palm against his cheek. “I love you.”


Tobias covered Her hand with his own. Heat flooded Her touch, followed by color—swirls of pink and flecks of yellow washed over by rivers of a deep and mournful blue. She knew his grief well, but those bright sparks were encouraging, and She clung to them like a lifeline.


“Please,” She said. “If you need anything⁠—”


“I’ll tell You. I promise. I’m sorry, I just . . .” He pressed his forehead to Hers. “I want to do right by You.”


“You are doing right by Me.”


“I can’t fail You.”


“We won’t fail. Do you hear Me? We won’t.”


She stood on Her toes and kissed him. One strong hand latched onto Her waist, the other climbing up the nape of Her neck, and She eased against Tobias, warming in his embrace. His lips were so full, so easy to linger on. She deepened the kiss, threading Her arms around him and massaging his scalp.


“Leila,” he whispered.


She pressed Her body into his, and his next kiss sent fuchsia beaming behind Her eyelids. No more sadness—it had drifted away, and all that remained were the vibrant colors of his affection and the taste of sugar on his tongue. They shared a soft smile before his mouth returned to Hers, and if the pink fog encircling them hadn’t been a fair indication of his lust, the hardening of his cock against Her stomach certainly was. His arousal only fueled Her own, sending Her heartbeat racing, Her breath catching in Her throat. She ran Her hands under the front of his tunic, tracing the firm lines of his abdomen up to his chest, then back down again. With the slightest nip of his lip, She danced Her fingertips over the bulge in his pants.


“Leila?” Tobias half-groaned, half-choked.


“We’re alone,” She said. “This almost never happens.”


“We’re in the woods.”


“How long until we’re not in the woods?”


She searched his eyes for something—acknowledgment, permission. Instead, he kissed Her hard, and color burst around them like paint splashed across walls. His skin had turned hot, his breathing laborious, and She got caught up in the path of his voracious lips, melting into Herself when they traveled down Her throat. Her hands were once again venturing up his shirt while his headed south and squeezed Her ass. His desire was overwhelming and contagious, and She grabbed a fistful of his waistband, eager to unleash its contents.


“Wait!” a shrill voice called out. “Wait, stop, please.”


Tobias and Leila flew apart, Leila whipping Her blade from its sheath, Tobias snatching his axe. The trees rustled, and a man stumbled forth, cloaked in shadows.


“Apologies.” He raised his hands in surrender. “I didn’t mean . . . Just stop. Please.”


Leila peered through the blackness at the intruder, his features, much like his voice, becoming familiar. Glowering, Tobias stepped forward, fist tightening around his axe.


“Wait.” Leila grabbed his wrist, halting him. She squinted.


“Raphael?”



OceanofPDF.com

cHV
    
  


  


Chapter 3

Tobias


Raphael lay beside a fallen log, nestled in a grey woolen blanket as he slept—an unwanted guest comfortable in Tobias’s spot. He’d been there for hours while Tobias watched, sharpening his sword for far longer than necessary. Raphael’s brown skin and ecru tunic hadn’t a speck of grime or dirt, his long, angular face showed no sign of strain, and his black curls were well-groomed, cut short. What a luxury to be in the middle of the woods without a single care. If Raphael had one, Tobias couldn’t see it.


His mother finished tending to the horses—all three of them, since Raphael had joined the mix—and took root at Tobias’s side, hands on her hips. “Is he staying?”


Tobias snorted. “I highly doubt it.”


She eyed Raphael, assessing him just as Tobias had. “He’s from the Sovereign’s Tournament, isn’t he?”


“The Intellect,” Tobias confirmed. “That was his laurel.”


“So, he’s a killer.”


“He’s never killed anyone.”


“How did he survive, then?”


Raphael’s blood—Tobias could feel it, wet and sticky against his palms. Raphael wasn’t lying on the ground anymore. He was flailing in the water, red blooming around him, and Tobias was scooping him up, planting his hands over the deep punctures in his ribs.


“He had help.”


Leila sat paces away, blessing Naomi in silence. Tobias may have pulled Raphael from that ravine those few weeks ago, but Leila was the one who had kept him alive. She had spoken with Tobias the night prior, sharing stories of their visitor that left Tobias seething. An agreement. That’s what She had called it, though it sounded more like a strong-arm tactic—Leila’s secret hidden in return for Raphael’s safety. Her life at risk for his spared.


Raphael stirred and yawned. The bastard was awake.


“What now?” Tobias’s mother asked.


Blood. Tobias felt his own, simmering in his veins.


“I’ll handle him.”


Tobias abandoned his spot, his thundering heart keeping time with his steps. Swiping it from its sheath, he pointed his sword at Raphael’s throat.


“Tobias!”


His mother’s cry rang out behind him, but he held firm. “Tell me why I shouldn’t kill you right now,” he said.


Raphael raised his hands high. “Let me explain.”


“You threatened Her.”


“I had no choice.”


“You could’ve chosen not to threaten Her.”


“Tobias”—Leila rushed to his side, eyes darting between the two men—“the offense has long been forgotten.”


“Well, I’ve only just learned of it, so forgive me if I’m not quick to forget.”


Raphael stuttered, “I-I was fighting for my life⁠—”


“So was She.” Tobias pressed the sharpened steel against Raphael’s flesh. “Then you tied Her hands. Betrayed Her. Do you realize the danger you put upon Her? She could’ve died⁠—”


“I didn’t know!” Raphael spat. “I didn’t know, and I didn’t care, but I should have! I should have.” He fought to still himself, but his panting breaths failed to slow. “But you of all people can understand. You saw our circumstances. I did what I needed to survive, just as you did.”


“See, that’s where you’re wrong,” Tobias said. “I kept to my principles. I was willing to die there, so long as I died a man of substance.”


“But you didn’t die, did you? Because you just so happened to fall in love with the actual Savior. But I didn’t fall for anyone. I didn’t have any divine assistance. I was alone.”


Silence filled the woods, save for Tobias’s heart beating in his ears. His fist tightened around the hilt of his sword.


“Only four men survived the tournament, all because of Her,” Raphael said. “I needed Her if I was to live. There was no other way. Now the tournament’s over, and I’ve come here to right my wrongs. The two of you saved my life. I’m here to help save yours.”


Tobias barked out a laugh. “That’s rich.”


“I’m telling the truth. I have my freedom. How do I benefit from joining your cause?”


“Tobias,” Leila said. He’d nearly forgotten She stood there, heedless of everything but his rage. Her gaze was probing, and She rested a delicate hand on his back. “Let’s at least listen to him. Please.”


Clenching his jaw, Tobias bit back his protests. “Explain yourself. Quickly.”


Raphael swallowed, the sword’s steel edge grazing his larynx. “I acted selfishly. I saw an opportunity, and . . . I’m not proud. But I was there, at the Culmination, in the crowd. I saw what happened, and suddenly everything made sense.” His eyes flitted to Leila. “The sovereign is trying to kill You, isn’t he?”


Leila glanced at Tobias sidelong, then nodded.


“I should’ve seen it sooner, but I’m here now,” Raphael said. “And I can help. Really, I can.”


“You can help?” Tobias scoffed. “Is that right?”


“I found you, didn’t I? That means the sovereign can too. But I can stop that. I can keep you invisible.”


Kill him. The urge was fierce, but Leila grabbed Tobias’s wrist and squeezed it tight, cooling the fire in his veins.


“I don’t trust him.” Naomi’s voice rang out, her arms crossed as she observed from her spot on the ground. “Did he really threaten Leila in Her time of need? What kind of awful, slimy⁠—”


“How?” Tobias said.


Raphael faltered. “Pardon?”


“How did you find us?”


“I’m a keeper at the archives. You don’t gain such a title without the proper skills.”


“Answer the question.”


“No.” Naomi spun toward Tobias. “You can’t be considering⁠—”


“Not now.” Tobias’s gaze returned to Raphael, narrowing. “Answer the question.”


Raphael nodded, then winced as his skin caught against the blade. “We’ll start with the Culmination. I was certain you wouldn’t stay close to the palace. It was easy to assume Leila would use Her grey magic⁠—”


“Grey magic?” Tobias said.


“Yes. The grey cloud.”


“Shadow walking,” Leila corrected.


Raphael furrowed his brow. “Shadow walking?”


“That’s what it’s called.”


“Grey magic makes far more sense.”


“Can you get on with your story?”


Raphael flinched at Tobias’s order, then cleared his throat. “I assumed She’d use Her shadow walking to get you as far from the palace as possible. Cities and other densely populated areas were clearly out of the question, given your fugitive status⁠—”


“Fugitive status?” Tobias’s mother said, and he cringed. Goddammit, Raphael.


“Yes. Tobias is a fugitive. Has no one told you?”


“The story,” Tobias growled.


“Well, that left the countryside.” Raphael’s words came out swift and assured in the most aggravating way. “Five woodlands in particular seemed most promising, but the obvious choice was the Krios Woods. Hundreds of miles of solitude and coverage? It would be hard to resist.”


“You found us,” Tobias said. “In three days. In woods spanning hundreds of miles.”


“The southern trade post is just north of here. You may be the Artist, but you’re also a laborer. I know you’re not highborn. I figured you were familiar with the trade roots. Just had to drag myself through twenty or so miles of woods to find you. And I did, didn’t I?”


Tobias’s face burned. “Congratulations. Now you get to die.”


“How do you plan to help us?” Leila barked out the question, nails digging into Tobias’s wrist. “What can you offer to keep us unseen?”


Raphael glanced between them both. “Let me be your navigator. We need to fare east.”


“We?” Tobias spat.


“These woods will lead to the jungles of Ethyua. If we keep traveling in this direction, we’ll be arrested and hanged for illegally crossing their border.”


“Hanged?” Naomi’s expression hardened. “He’s lying. Ethyua is our ally.”


“They are. They’re also very conservative, particularly when it comes to seeking passage.” Raphael’s eyes panned to Leila. “You may be used to royal exceptions, but remember, You’re in hiding.”


One move, and another traitor would fall dead at Tobias’s feet, yet his arm remained steady, his sword still.


“I know where I stand,” Raphael said. “I’m not the strongest man nor skilled with a weapon. But I’ve spent my life pursuing knowledge, and you can use that to your advantage.” His brown eyes grew larger, lit with desperation. “Let me help. I know I can be of value. And if I could find you, the sovereign’s army won’t be far behind.”


Raphael’s pleading gaze bore through Tobias, but it was Leila’s stare that cut deep, burrowing straight through his skull and into his chaotic thoughts.


Tobias dropped his sword, yanking the collar of Raphael’s tunic and lurching him upright. “Even the slightest hint of betrayal, and I gut you.”


Raphael wavered. “No hope for friendship, I take it?”


“Friendship.” Tobias scoffed. “You’re funny, Raph.”


He released the man, letting him stagger through the dirt as Tobias marched away. His mother was staring at him, and he thought to explain himself, but the impulse was fleeting. Her opinion was already etched across her stony face, and he wasn’t sure he cared either way. He walked past her and the campsite altogether until he and his rage were alone, shaded by towering trees.


Hesitant footsteps crunched behind him. He felt Leila before She came into view, Her gaze too earnest to bare. Resting his hands on his knees, he fought to still his breathing. “Don’t tell me I crossed a line. You would’ve done the same⁠—”


“I know,” She said. “I’m not upset. Well, not with you.”


Tobias stood upright, finally looking Her in the eyes. She came closer with small, slow steps, as if She were approaching a wild beast. “You did the right thing,” She said. “Letting him help us.”


“You actually trust him?”


“I can count the number of people I trust on one hand—on three fingers, even. He’s not one of them.” Her expression softened. “But toward the end of the tournament, he seemed . . . I don’t know. Regretful, I suppose.”


“Oh, he regretted threatening You? What a kind heart.”


“Tobias—”


“He’s underhanded, conniving⁠—”


“He’s also right,” She said. “I’m not particularly well-versed in trade routes, but he’s right about Ethyua’s borders, their policies. I imagine he’s right about many other things as well.”


Tobias ran his fingers through his hair, his thoughts piling on top of one another. “Fuck.”


She took his hands, pressing a kiss to each of his palms. “I’ll speak with him. Enlighten him of recent events. Only need-to-know information. I promise.”


Another soft kiss melted into his palm, Her lips a warm salve for his overwrought mind. He closed his eyes, taking in each quiet sensation—Her gentle touch, the floral scent of Her dark flowing hair, Her steady breathing. Then She pulled away, heading back to their campsite.


“Leila,” he called out. “Am I the first, second, or third finger?”


Her cheeky laughter lingered in the air as She disappeared, and the tiniest smile flickered across Tobias’s face—a second of joy, gone too soon. As soon as he trudged back to camp, all eyes flitted in his direction. He caught Raphael’s gaze, and his chest filled with fire.


Grounding himself, he took a seat at his sister’s side. “Time for your tonic,” he muttered, fussing with her satchel of balms and herbs. She was watching him, lips twisted in apparent judgment, and he sighed. “Don’t start.”


“I don’t trust him at all,” she said.


“Neither do I.”


“Then why’s he staying?”


“Because Leila needs an army, I’m a wanted man, and we need all the help we can get.”


Tobias tensed. Naomi’s gaze became intrusive, an inevitable question behind her eyes.


“You’re a fugitive,” she said.


Tobias steeled himself. “Apparently I’ve kidnapped The Savior and plan to end Her life and reign.”


Naomi looked out into the woods, quiet for slow-moving seconds that wound him tighter. “I knew they were searching for us,” she finally said. “I just didn’t expect them to lie like that.”


“Well, I assure you it’s exactly like Brontes to fabricate a steaming pile of shit and feed it to the masses.”


Tobias kept his eyes on the satchel, fumbling with tonics just to busy his hands. All the while the heat in his chest clawed up to his throat, singeing the back of his tongue.


“Can I ask you a question?”


Tobias locked his jaw. “You just did.”


“You killed three men in the tournament.”


“That wasn’t a question.”


“I’m asking for⁠—”


“I did,” he said. “I killed them.”


Naomi sat still, then breathed in. “Would you do it again?”


“There’s a traitor in our camp and a madman on the throne, and this is your question?”


“I just need to know. If you could go back—if the situation were different—would you do it again?”


“Without a second thought.” The words tumbled forth of their own bidding. “I would kill them again, and I would relish their suffering.”


“Tobias—”


“Those three men were recruited to murder Leila. They killed innocent men. They killed Milo.” Something inside him was shaking, bottled and ready to burst. “I don’t regret what I’ve done. And if I ever get the opportunity, I’ll piss on their graves.”


“I don’t like hearing you like this.”


Shrugging, Tobias stood. “You asked.”


Blood on his hands. He was there again, flailing in the ravine, certain each breath would fill his lungs with water. Muscles taut, he walked back toward the woods, sinking deeper into the abyss with each step.



OceanofPDF.com

cM
    
  


  

THE SAVIOR’S ARMY


Book 3 of The Savior’s Series


Copyright © 2025 Jenna Moreci


First edition: March 2026


Library of Congress Control Number: 2025925751


The right of JENNA MORECI to be identified as the author of this work has been asserted by her in accordance with the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988.


All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, transmitted, or stored in a retrieval system in any form or by any means without permission in writing from the copyright owner, nor otherwise circulated in any form of binding or cover other than that in which it is published and without a similar condition being imposed on the subsequent purchaser.


This is a work of fiction. All characters in this publication are fictitious, and any resemblance to real people, alive or dead, is purely coincidental.


ISBN: 979-8-9936417-2-0 (hardback)


ISBN: 979-8-9936417-1-3 (paperback)


ISBN: 979-8-9936417-0-6 (ebook)


For inquiries, please direct all mailed correspondence to:


PO Box 475


San Carlos, CA 94070


USA


www.JennaMoreci.com


Cover design by AC Graphics


Edited by Jean McConnell


Map design by Subtle Touch Creations



OceanofPDF.com

cNX
    
  


  


Chapter 4

Leila


Travel was torturous. Leila had always assumed it would be thrilling, a carriage ride with the wind elegantly tousling Her hair, Her hand dancing out the window. She’d spy passing trees and grazing deer while lounging atop silk cushions, sipping wine, and taking in new worlds She’d never imagined.


Instead, She sat with Her back rigid against Tobias’s chest, straddling their horse tight until Her calves ached and ass went numb. She relished the hard planes of Tobias’s muscles pressed to Her, but soon the space between them was slick with sweat, the southern humidity thicker with each passing day. Clearly, She hadn’t properly appreciated the dry heat of central Thessen before, but, oh, what She would have given for air that didn’t cling to Her face like wet linen. She’d never seen Her hair so coarse and dull, and when Her monthly blood arrived, the throbbing of Her empty womb begged for an end to their journey entirely. Still, She pressed on, adamant She couldn’t be the weakest among them—not when everyone had made so many sacrifices on Her behalf.


It was days before any sign of relief—a lake, or perhaps a pond, as Leila wasn’t quite sure what constituted one or the other. Either way, they set up camp near its edge, each member of their party taking turns for a long-needed bath between keeping watch and tending to the fire.


Leila’s hair hung in slippery strings around Her face, smelling like soil to match its color. She tied it into a long braid, hoping Her bedraggled appearance wasn’t too offensive, then pressed Her palms to Naomi’s back, sending torrents of light wrapping around her spine. All the while, Leila’s gaze drifted to the lake where Tobias was taking his turn to bathe. He burst above the surface and whipped his hair from his face, the waterline hugging his hips, revealing the delicious V carved into his lower abdomen and the uppermost curve of a firm bum. Leila’s eyes traced the droplets trickling down his stomach, rounding his navel before disappearing into the pool below. Tobias caught Her lingering gaze and winked, and Her face swirled with heat.


Naomi snorted. She was staring at Leila, and the burn of Her cheeks deepened. “Apologies.”


Chuckling, Naomi cocked Her head Tobias’s way. “You know what I used to call him when we were children? Spindles.”


“Spindles?”


“Mmhmm. He was such a lanky one. We both were, if I’m honest. I just carried it better.” Her gaze wandered, lost in nostalgia. “Yes, Spindles Kaya. That was his name. He hated it. I was an awful sister.”


“Not true. We all poke fun.”


Naomi smiled. “Girls didn’t notice him much. He’s always had a handsome face, but we lived in a village filled with the workman sort—lots of impressively built men, and there was Tobias all skin and bones. Then he began laboring.” She wrinkled her nose. “God, those first few weeks were brutal. He pretended he was fine, but his hands were bloodied and blistered, and he was so sore all over, you’d think he was the cripple. But after that, I swear, it’s as if he changed overnight. Spindles came home one day, and he was a man. And let me tell You, girls noticed. It was a bit sick. The eyes that followed him—like bitches in heat.” She stopped short. “Not saying You’re a bitch⁠—”


“I take no offense.”


Naomi exhaled. “Good.”


Her smile remained, but her blackish eyes had become vacant, peering past Leila. Because of the pain, most likely—it gnawed at Leila’s palms throughout each blessing. But then blue tendrils slipped from Naomi’s skin, bleeding between Leila’s fingers, and the emptiness of her gaze carried new meaning.


“You’re sad,” Leila said. “Why?”


Naomi sighed. “He’s different. I mean, he’s the same in many ways, but he’s different in others.”


“He’s still good. He’ll always be good.”


“I’m conflicted, I suppose. Some days, I’m so relieved to have my brother back. And even better, he’s happy now. He has You.” Naomi fidgeted, first sitting on her hands, then folding them in her lap. “Then other days, I feel as though I’m getting to know him all over again. A new Tobias. Gone for just thirty days, and it might as well have been a century. I missed so much, and he’s forever changed. I wasn’t there.” She met Leila’s gaze. “I’m glad You were, though.”


Leila’s shoulders curled. “I’m sorry to have taken him from you for some time.”


“Oh, stop that. Don’t tell me You think this is Your fault?” Her eyes glistened. “I know he joined the tournament because of me. You must know it too.”


Naomi’s blue waves caught in Leila’s throat, icy against the roof of Her mouth. “My mother was killed in the street. The woman who raised Me died shortly after. And My father despises Me.” Leila shied from Naomi’s gaze. “What Tobias has with you and your mother—a bond so strong, he’d risk his life to better yours—it’s something I’ve wanted My entire life. He’s very lucky to have you.”


“That’s one way to look at it, I suppose.”


Leila took Naomi’s hand. “Your brother is the greatest man I’ve ever known. He’s different, but wonderful. And always good.”


Naomi’s smile returned, small and slight. “High praise from The Savior. You love him so much.” Leila nodded, and Naomi’s smile widened. “Me too.”


The blue around her thinned, or perhaps Leila was imagining things. Either way, Naomi’s eyes had cleared, and Leila claimed it as a victory.


A shirtless Tobias strode to Her side, hair dripping and pants clinging to prominent places. “Ladies.” He gestured toward the tree line. “Sunset’s nearing. She’ll be waiting soon.”


He was right. The sky was still mostly blue, but bright pink light tickled the treetops. Nerves and excitement swirled in Leila’s belly. She stood and swept up Her cloak. “You’ll be all right without Me?”


“Of course,” Naomi said. “We’ve got Toby to look out for us.”


Leila wavered. “Toby?”


“Oh, he hasn’t told You? Toby is what he prefers to be called.”


Tobias shoved his sister’s arm, chuckling with her. “We’ll be fine.” His smile weakened. “Just . . . be brief.”


Her emotions wrestled in Her gut, yanking Her in opposite directions. Everyone was watching Her. Yucana sat by the fire, her expression unreadable, while Naomi’s gaze was ripe with encouragement. Then there was Tobias, calm and assured—how, She hadn’t a clue. She wasn’t sure of anything these days.


Raphael scrambled to his feet. “I’m here to assist in any way that I can.”


Naomi rolled her eyes, deflating him without a word. Clearing Her throat, Leila tossed Her hood over Her head. “I’ll be quick.” She kissed Tobias on the cheek. “Stay safe.”


Her nervous energy threatened to combust, and She clenched Her fists to keep it contained. Closing Her eyes, She brought Her power to a boil, and the blackness of Her vision shifted to grey—stacked stones cracked and weathered, cobwebs fanning their edges. Her light consumed Her, turning the dirt beneath Her feet into something hard and firm, the air around Her thin and still.


She opened Her eyes, and a pink sky stretched before Her, hugging cottage-dotted hills that rolled into the distance. Manicured gardens, empty courtyards, and vineyards just a couple months shy of harvesting loomed far below, each bench, statue, and juniper small enough to fit into Her palm. Grey stone walls thick with the scent of must surrounded Her, along with dust piled in corners across the floor. She was home again in Her fortress tower, the last place She should be, yet its familiarity was a cozy blanket wrapped around Her shoulders.


“Leila.”


Delphi waited by the sill clenching the folds of her dress. She rushed toward Leila and threw her arms around Her. “Thank God You’re all right.”


Leila squeezed Her sister, digging into her charcoal cloak. Tears brimmed Her eyes, but She resisted their pull, memorizing the rhythm of Delphi’s heartbeat and relishing the warmth of her skin.


She started as feet shuffled behind them. Hylas stood in the tower portal, long black curls hanging in his freckled face as he bowed his head.


“Hylas.” Leila pulled free from Her sister. “What are you doing here?”


Delphi frowned. “He’s supposed to be keeping watch.”


His large umber eyes flitted between the two women. “I just had to see You—to make sure You’re faring well.”


“I’m fine. We’re safe.” Leila tried to sound encouraging, but Her voice nearly broke. “How are you?”


Hylas’s golden-brown skin was enviably smooth, his fresh purple tunic smelling of rose water. Leila knew how he was—clean and comfortable, at least in body, which was more than She could say about Herself. He glanced at Delphi, swallowing hard. “These are such strange times. The sovereign has tripled the ranks patrolling the palace. There are guards everywhere, at all times.”


“Which is why you should be keeping watch.” Delphi raised an eyebrow. “Go on. I’ll tell Her your findings.”


Hylas hesitated before nodding, taking one last look at the two sisters before disappearing down the stairwell. As the echo of his footsteps died, Delphi turned to Leila, full lips pulled into a smile. “He misses You.”


Leila’s heart tugged and lurched. Perhaps it was the time apart, but Delphi seemed even more beautiful than Leila recalled. Her long black braids were neatly tucked into her cloak, her statuesque figure and deep brown skin were lit by the setting sun with an angelic glow, and her upturned sable gaze looked like home.


“How are you managing?” Leila eyed her up and down, scrutinizing her pale blue dress, her unblemished face. “Brontes hasn’t hurt you?”


“I’ve kept my distance.”


“How?” Leila said. “With all those guards . . . And what about Pippa? Nyx and Hemera? What about⁠—?”


“We haven’t time for this.” Delphi took Her hands. “Hylas has been my eyes and ears during Senate meetings. The entire Thessian army is searching for You.”


“Even his sellswords?”


“No mention of them. We’re hoping to learn more soon.” Delphi’s face dropped. “Brontes has put a reward out for Tobias. They’re calling him a traitor.”


“I know.”


“They’re spreading the message through the whole of the realm. No mercy.” Her expression didn’t change, but her grip on Leila’s hands tightened. “Soldiers are stationed in all cities and villages. They’re looking for You . . . and recruiting others to do the same.”


“He’s turning My people against Me?”


“I imagine they don’t see it that way. They’re rescuing You, after all.” Delphi frowned. “But it’s not just Thessen. Heralds were sent to the ally realms as well.”


“Even Kovahr?”


“Hylas was to prepare the message himself.”


Leila’s gaze drifted. There were far too many emotions to sort through, the lot of them winding together into a sort of numbness. Instead, She focused on the pinks and purples of the skyline.


“He wanted to slip in a note—tell them the truth—but with the armed escorts⁠—”


“It was too risky,” Leila said. “I understand.”


Delphi tilted her head, reclaiming Leila’s line of sight. “Your father’s been using the tunnels a lot these past few days. One leads to the dungeon. Another to the vault. And I believe one leads straight beneath the fortress gate.”


Leila started. “A secret passage out of the fortress?”


“It explains how Phanes and the others were able to send his messages so discreetly.”


An exit. The answer to all Her troubles, a few days too late. She pulled Delphi close. “Leave. Take the tunnel and get out of here.”


“Leila—”


“We’ll arrange a meeting,” She said. “You can join us.”


“I’m needed here.”


“We’ll keep you safe.”


“You need someone on the inside.” Delphi spoke with intention. “Hylas can’t do this alone. Let me play my part.” Her voice lowered. “For Mother.”


Leila’s hands trembled, Her mind flooded with horrors She couldn’t unsee—Her sister dead at Her feet, same as Tobias, as Her mothers, as everyone She’d ever dared to love. Fiction overlapped with reality, Her thoughts far too muddy for Her to differentiate one from the other.


“You’ll tell Me when it becomes too much.” Leila’s voice cracked. “At the first sign of danger, you’ll let Me take you out of here.”


“I promise.”


Leila took in Her sister for a moment longer, her black braids and upturned eyes a beautiful reminder of home. Her tears returned, but She didn’t fight them.


“I miss you so much.”


Delphi smiled, smoothing down the flyaways of Leila’s hair. “Is Tobias taking care of You?”


“He is. His family is lovely.” Yucana appeared in Leila’s mind, and She shook her away. “Raphael has joined us as well.”


“Raphael?” Delphi spat.


“He found us.”


“Then You’re not hiding well enough.” Four knocks echoed up the stairwell, and Delphi sighed. “That’s Hylas. I have to go.”


“Hold on.” Leila planted a hand on Delphi’s chest. “If anyone tries to hurt you⁠—”


“I know how Your blessing works.” Delphi waited impatiently, tapping her foot, then flicking her wrist, urging Leila to finish. Once the heat of Leila’s touch died, Delphi kissed Her cheek. “Hide better.”


“Love you too.”


Delphi burst into grey, leaving nothing but ink smearing the air. Leila rarely bore witness to Her shadow walking in action, as She was usually the one wielding Her magic rather than watching it dissolve in front of Her. Her gaze drifted to the fortress below—the massive wall that once held Her captive, peppered with shrubs, trees, and countless soldiers stationed like armored ants. So much had changed in a few short days. She closed Her eyes and channeled Her power.


The lake.


Light blared through Her, leaving Her blind and weightless. Soon enough, Her senses returned—the pebbles and twigs underfoot, the smell of water and soil.


The screams.


Her eyes shot open. Naomi was curled on her side, shrieking as Yucana, Tobias, and Raphael hovered over her.


Leila rushed toward them. “What’s happening?”


“Shocks.” Tobias’s voice came out sharp and frantic. “Can You help her?”


“We need lavender and ginger,” Yucana said. “I’ll grab my things.”


“Let Me see her.” Leila pushed Her way between Tobias and Raphael and took a seat. Naomi rocked back and forth, hair sticking to tear-streaked cheeks and body locked tight.


“Please, just . . .” Naomi spoke between pants. “Make it stop.”


She lurched straight and howled. Heartbeat hammering, Leila launched Her hands down the back of Naomi’s dress, and pain like lightning plowed into Her palms, blazing straight past the woman’s flesh.


“Dull the flame.” Power poured from Leila’s fingertips, hurtling into the storm. “Ease the suffering.”


Naomi jolted beneath Her touch, and Yucana shoved forward, a satchel in hand. “It’s not working.”


Raphael cleared his throat. “I hate to intrude⁠—”


“Then don’t,” Tobias spat.


“I know this is a very serious situation⁠—”


“Bloody fuck, Raphael⁠—”


“But we’re in hiding, and her cries are very loud,” Raphael said.


“I have ginger.” Yucana dug through her bag, pulling out a palmful of the root. “There’s no time for tea. If she bites down—” Another cry ripped through the woods, and Yucana’s jaw tightened. “She’s getting worse.”


“It takes time,” Leila said.


“You’re hurting her.”


Leila spun toward Yucana. “You think I’m causing this?”


“Will everyone be quiet and let Leila work?” Tobias barked.


Sobs tore from Naomi’s throat, and she grabbed hold of Leila, digging in deep enough to bruise.


“Ease the pain.” Leila spoke through gritted teeth. “Heed My command.”


Raphael leaned close to Leila, a nagging fly beside Her ear. “I know this is taxing, but someone will hear us.”


Leila shot him a glare as Naomi spasmed beneath Her touch. Dull the flame. The words repeated in Her thoughts, swimming amid Her fear and anxieties. Another bolt struck Naomi, but it was the slightest bit calmer, a single blade rather than a shower of arrows. Heed My command. The next strike sent Naomi crying out, but the sound was softer, and her body loosened within Leila’s hold. The light was working. It had to.


“What was that?” Tobias stood upright, looking into the thick of the woods.


Stillness.


Lightning sliced through Leila’s palm, pulling Her back to the task. “Ease the⁠—”


“Shit.” Tobias abandoned the group, grabbing a leather sheath from his things and strapping it to his thigh. He turned to Leila. “Stay back.”


“What?”


The trees rustled. Tobias dug through his belongings, swiping up his sword, then looked to Leila. “Keep them safe.”


Her stomach lurched. “Tobias . . .”


She heard it then—a guttural battle cry. Feet pounded and silver shone through the trees—the tip of a spear, followed by a crested helmet, a breastplate. A soldier burst through the foliage, and Tobias charged his way, sword drawn.


“Tobias!” Leila cried out.


The soldier lunged, and Tobias ducked beneath his blow, plunging his sword into the pit of the man’s gut. Naomi’s scream pierced the air, grating and horror-struck. Tobias kicked the man free from his weapon, a fleeting victory. More soldiers barreled through the woods, and bile rose in Leila’s throat. How long before they were surrounded?


The soldiers headed straight for Tobias, who swiped a blade from its sheath and launched it at one of the servicemen’s thighs. Sharpened steel swung his way, but Tobias deflected, wielding his sword with poise and purpose. He blasted the weapon from the soldier’s hands only for a fist to slam into his jaw, throwing him off center. Leila flinched as the soldier kneed him in the gut, and his second punch sent Tobias’s sword flying as he fell to his knees, gasping for air.


Yucana called out her son’s name, and Leila grabbed hold of her, lending the woman Her strength. Tobias dodged the next blow, pounding the soldier in the groin and collapsing him. As his opponent faltered, Tobias lunged, wrestling him from the ground and wrapping his arms around his throat.


“Forward!”


Another slew of soldiers appeared, enveloping their campsite in chaos. Tobias struggled with his adversary, turning the man’s face red while Raphael pivoted in front of the three women, a shield of little use. Yucana clung to Naomi, who clung to Leila, their screams muted by the echo of Tobias’s words in Leila’s mind. Keep them safe. Except a soldier was grabbing Raphael and dragging him to the ground, and two more headed for Tobias, swords in hand. Stay back. But Tobias’s voice faded, leaving Her with Her heartbeat pounding in Her ears.


Like hell.


Leila tore from Naomi’s grasp, power simmering in Her blood.


Behind him.


She burst into light, reappearing with Her arms wrapped around a soldier’s neck, Her eyes staring straight into Raphael’s stunned gaze. She whipped Her blade from its sheath and slit the soldier’s gullet, drenching Her hands in blood. The man tumbled to the ground as Leila shadow walked away, standing firm and scanning the madness. Two men were on top of Tobias, one with his fist wound in Tobias’s hair, the other with a sword pointed at his throat.


Leila’s vision flashed white, and when Her sight cleared, She stood behind the armed soldier, Tobias writhing in front of him. She jabbed Her blade deep into the man’s lower back, finding the sweet spot beneath the edge of his armor and hacking away. Howling, he grasped at the river pouring from his opened kidneys while Leila shadow walked behind the second soldier, lit and fuming. She ripped the helmet from his head and smacked it against his skull, freeing Tobias from his clutches as She beat the soldier with his armor.


A fist plowed into Her cheek, toppling Her. She fanned Her fingers through the dirt—She’d dropped Her blade—but the soldier flipped Her onto Her back, pinning Her against the ground. Blood leaked down his leg, and his face was drained of color, but that didn’t stop him from grabbing Her shoulders and thrusting Her into the dirt.


“There’s no use resisting,” he spat. “Stay still.”


Leila headbutted him, pain bursting through Her skull as he flailed. She rolled out from under his weight only to lurch backward as he seized Her ankle. She kicked him hard, first in his chest plate, then again in his pelvis, pounding incessantly. Once he recoiled, Leila clawed across the ground, searching for something pointed, sharp. Her blade lay in a puddle of blood, and She snatched it up, skewering it into the root of his neck.


He let out a gurgling roar, wrenching the weapon free. Blood rained down on Her, but the soldier didn’t relent, reaching for Her wrists or Her hair, desperate for something to latch onto. She combatted in kind, thrashing until Her hands met the rigid lines of his face. Gritting Her teeth, She burrowed Her fingers into his eyes, and he screamed in agony, tumbling backward. Leila scrambled to Her feet and kicked him in the gut, again in the side, then stomped at his opened throat over and over as blood geysered beneath Her heel. Restraint was a stranger; Leila surrendered to instinct, smashing the soldier’s throat into a crimson soup, the squelch of flesh screaming in Her ears.


Gasping for breath, Leila yanked Her ankle free from the corpse. Nothing—no war cries, no clanking of swords. Dead bodies littered the dirt, mangled by either Leila’s or Tobias’s hand. He stood opposite Her, chest heaving, gashes tearing through his flesh. His eyes were large and set on Her—as were the eyes of Raphael, Yucana, and Naomi, their slack-jawed expressions palpable.


Leila swallowed. Blood caked Her foot, Her dress. She stood tall, but Her red hands were already trembling. They’d seen it all—every cut and blow, the dark truth behind Her savage capabilities.


Exhaling, Tobias ran toward Leila, and She went rigid as his arms looped around Her.


“Leila, darling.” He pulled Her into his embrace, and Her body went loose as he cooed into Her ear. “You did so well.”



OceanofPDF.com

cUK
    
  


  


Chapter 5

Tobias


“Mend the flesh.”


Tobias winced. The burn of Leila’s light wasn’t always so vexing, but when pressed to an open wound, it was hard to ignore. He set his jaw, counting the seconds as Her palm seared his mangled flesh.


“All right.” He pulled away. “That’s enough.”


“I’ll be the judge of that,” Leila said.


“It feels fine.”


“It’s bleeding.”


Tobias ignored Her, threading his green tunic overhead. Leila had been blessing him ever since they’d set up their new camp that morning. She’d started with his gashes from yesterday’s ambush, then moved on to his stitches from the Culmination which were long overdue for removal, only to circle back to his newest collection of wounds. Her concern was endearing, but he’d grown indifferent to injury. Little over a week ago, his back was a mess of crisscrossing lesions, but the new scar tissue barely pulled when he dressed. Perhaps by the end of their journey, there wouldn’t be a single part of him unmarred.


“Tobias,” Leila said. “Are you upset with Me?”


“What?” He searched Her gaze. “Darling, no. Why would You think that?”


“You wouldn’t be in this situation if not for Me.”


“None of this is Your fault. Do You understand? You can’t blame Yourself for Brontes’s actions.”


“Still, I can’t help but feel responsible.”


“That’s because You’re used to doing everything by Yourself.” He offered Her a smile. “Apologies, but You’re stuck with me now.”


She cracked a smile of Her own, taking his hand and dragging Her fingertip down the scar trailing his palm. Bringing it to Her lips, She pressed a soft kiss to his flesh, a memory reenacted. The throbbing of his wounds retreated, the first hint of calm he’d felt in days. Leila was in his life—something good. Something real.


The whinny of a horse sent them lurching apart. Tobias’s mother stood with their steeds, patting the bay mare’s muzzle and cooing. She’d been silent for most of their journey to their newest site—as had Naomi, who sat by what would eventually become a firepit. They’d watched as Leila weighted the dead soldiers with rope and stones while Raphael and Tobias dragged them into the lake, and their unblinking gazes had seared holes in his flesh.


Leila rested a hand on his thigh. “You should probably⁠—”


“I know. I’ll talk to them.”


He squeezed Her palm and headed off, dread slowing his stride. His mother was scraping out the muddled contents of a hoof. Something about her wasn’t familiar anymore; it had been picking at him for days, a flitting gnat he couldn’t quite catch. Perhaps she had changed, or maybe it was him, but the air between them had thickened since his return, and each day it was more tangible than the last.


“I’m just checking to see how you’re faring,” Tobias said, stopping at her side and clearing his throat, “after yesterday.”


His mother dropped the hoof and scooped up the next. Her movements were clipped, her mouth pressed into a straight line. Who was this woman?


“So, now you’re not speaking to me?”


She sighed. “Tobias, stop it.”


“Well, I’m trying but getting nothing in return.”


She released the mare and stood upright. “What am I supposed to do?”


Confusion swept Tobias’s gaze. “Pardon?”


“I’m your mother. It’s my job to protect you. But this?” She gestured at the woods around them. “How am I supposed to protect you from soldiers? From the sovereign? How am I supposed to just . . . just sit back and watch?”


Tobias’s stomach sank. His mother’s eyes glistened, and he suddenly felt years younger and older at the same time. “It’s not your job anymore.”


“No.” She shook her head. “You can’t say that. You’re not a parent. You don’t understand.”


As she wiped her eyes, he scooped her up in a hug. “I’m sorry, Mother.” He rested his cheek against her hair, keeping his frame solid and strong. “What can I do?”


“Stop getting into trouble.”


He chuckled. “I’ll try my best.”


She squeezed him tighter before turning her attention to the horses, each flick of her hands once again short and clipped. He was getting to know the new version of her, albeit slowly.


A smile sparkled from across the campsite—Leila, ever-encouraging—and he forced one in return before turning on his heel. Naomi sat on a folded grey blanket sorting dry wood for the evening’s fire, and he took root at her side, crossing his legs. One down, one to go. Perhaps he’d survive the day after all.


“Are you all right?”


Naomi scoffed, tossing a wet twig aside. “I’d be doing a whole lot better if there wasn’t a traitor in our camp.” Raphael was keeping watch yards away, oblivious to their conversation, but she glared at him nonetheless. “Have you noticed how loudly he breathes? It drives me mad.”


“I meant⁠—”


“I know what you meant. You’re coddling us, and it’s silly.” She cast Tobias a sideways glance. “We’ve struggled too, you know. We’re not fragile.”


Tobias’s cheeks burned as if he’d been stripped naked. Naomi kept her gaze on her pile of sticks. Perhaps she was trying to appear unfazed, but her neck and shoulders had stiffened, and she held her chin high in a posturing way.


“You were very brave yesterday. I never thought my brother would become a warrior, but you make a fine one.”


“Kind words from my sister? Do my ears deceive me?”


Silence—not even a pity laugh. Her hands had stopped working, and her eyes were pointed at her lap, the turning of her mind clear by the stillness of her body.


“What now?” Tobias’s stomach twisted. “Is this about⁠—?”


“It’s not about that.”


“Then what is it?”


She shook her head. “I don’t know if I should say it. I fear it’s no good for you. But I can’t stop thinking . . .”


“Just say it.”


Sighing, she met his gaze. “Milo.”


The name ripped the air from Tobias’s lungs, bringing forth visions of large eyes, a prominent nose, mousy brown curls. He saw his childhood friend every day, sometimes laughing, other times sprayed across a brick wall. Milo had taken up permanent residence in Tobias’s mind, a ghost he was accustomed to, but something about hearing the name aloud turned his muscle to stone.


“I need to know . . .” Naomi took in a breath. “He died, and . . . Were you there?”


Tobias tried to move his arms, his hands, but they were solid rock. He nodded.


“Did you see it happen?”


“I did.” Blood. “I saw it. I felt it.” On my eyelids, on my lips—salty and metallic. “He was killed right in front of me, and I couldn’t do anything.”


Naomi paled. “Tobias⁠—”


“I spent the entire day looking after him.” The black bricks of the labyrinth materialized around him, building one on top of the other until they blocked out the sky. “Obstacle after obstacle. I nearly killed myself keeping him safe. Then it was almost over, and I let my guard down, and . . .” His voice caught, and his words forced their way up his throat like bile. “It was so fast. He was dead, and I couldn’t do a fucking thing.”


Silent tears fell down Naomi’s cheeks. “Come here.”


“I’m fine.”


“Shut up.”


He didn’t move, so she slung an arm around him instead, rubbing his strained shoulders as she cried at his side. He wanted her presence to soothe him like it used to, but her hand on his back only wound him tighter, coiling his insides until they were ready to snap. Black stacked bricks surrounded him, some caked in soot, others smeared with blood and entrails and Milo. Tobias’s fists began to tremble. He’d left the tournament behind weeks ago. How was he still lost in the labyrinth?


“All right. Now seems as good a time as any for a meeting.”


Raphael appeared before them, hands on his hips as he surveyed the woods. Tobias growled under his breath.


“I propose we discuss a course of action,” Raphael said. “Find some direction from this point forward.” He caught Tobias’s and Naomi’s twin glares. “What? Was something going on?”


“We can sleep here tonight.” Their mother hurried toward them, seemingly eager to diffuse the tension. “Figure out a plan in the morning.”


“With all due respect, it’s best we start sooner rather than later,” Raphael said. “Even with the bodies disposed of, more soldiers are bound to find their horses, wherever they are. It’ll set them on our trail. We’re running out of time as it is.”


Tobias shook Naomi’s arm off his shoulders. Raphael hadn’t said anything revelational. He’d merely drudged up Tobias’s existing concerns, sweeping them to the surface like the rolling tide.


“We need to leave the woods,” Tobias said.


“The issue is, where to?” Raphael was quiet for a long moment, then nodded as if agreeing with his own thoughts. “I say Leila shadow walks us to the Trogolian palace. The sovereign won’t suspect it, given the realm’s questionable reputation and duplicitous policies. We can request their assistance with some level of discretion.”


Leila sighed as She joined the group. “It doesn’t work like that.”


“What doesn’t work like that?”


“Shadow walking,” Leila said. “We can only go places one of us has been to before. Unless you have ties to the Trogolian king that I’m unaware of, we’ll have to think of something else.”


Groaning, Raphael threw his hands in the air. “Well, if that’s the case, our options are slim to none. Between our lack of resources and Tobias being labeled a fugitive, the sovereign has us cornered at all vantage points.”


Fire blossomed in Tobias’s chest, but he rooted himself to the ground, festering in the flames.


“Is there no use in returning to the palace—speaking with the soldiers or Senate?” Tobias’s mother glanced around the circle. “Surely they must trust the word of their Savior.”


“They’re in Brontes’s pocket,” Tobias grumbled. “Have been for years. It’s a dead end.”


“And there’s no reasoning with them?”


“They didn’t seem particularly reasonable when they came charging into our camp, weapons drawn.” Raphael paced, chin resting in his hand. “We can’t count on their sensibility. We have to think of something else.”


Something else. But there was nothing. Tobias knew this, because he’d had this discussion a million times already, his thoughts arguing with one another night after night. Raphael may have been the Intellect, but he was late to the conversation. Tobias had stumbled across the truth days ago.


They were trapped.


Leila’s eyes brightened. “The Thalassic Sea. Have we enough coin to charter a ship? We can sail⁠—”


“The sovereign has soldiers patrolling the coastline,” Raphael said. “All vessels are subject to mandatory inspections. Besides, we won’t find an army in the middle of the ocean.”


“Brontes has sellswords kept away somewhere,” She added. “If we find their barracks⁠—”


“We can’t find their barracks without returning to the palace, which would be the end of us all. Plus, we haven’t the coin.”


Tobias cast a glare Raphael’s way. “We have nearly the full allowance from my entry into the Sovereign’s Tournament.”


“Which is a fraction of what we’d need to purchase a mercenary army, particularly one already claimed,” Raphael said. “Your allowance came from the sovereign. Imagine his resources.”


“We’re already near Ethyua’s border.” The gleam of Leila’s eyes dimmed, replaced with trepidation. “I know it’s a risk, but if I expose My title⁠—”


“Out of the question.” Raphael resumed his pacing. “If the sovereign’s heralds have already reached the ally realms, soldiers will be acting on his orders. We’ll be killed as soon as we step foot on Ethyuan ground.”


“What about Kovahr?” Tobias said.


“You mean the realm with the most treacherous terrain of them all? We’d never survive the journey.” Raphael stopped short. “Now’s the time to think. We need a proper plan—one of sense and reason, not fanciful speculation⁠—”


“Oh, will you please shut up?” Naomi spat.


The circle went quiet. Raphael froze, eyes set on Tobias’s surly sister, then shook the shock from his face. “Excuse me, but I’m simply offering my assistance.”


“Is that right?” She crossed her arms, scowling at Raphael from her spot on the ground. “Because it sounds a whole lot like you have us dead and buried already. I swear, you must be the most negative person I’ve ever met.”


Raphael’s jaw went slack. He spun toward Tobias. “Did she just call me negative?”


Tobias shrugged. “Appears so.”


Raphael turned to Naomi, lips pursed. “I’m being practical. This is a gravely dangerous mission. We can’t afford mistakes.”


“Well, if our ideas are so impractical, then by all means, share yours. Last I checked you only had one suggestion to spare, and it was an absolute dud.”


Voices sounded off—Naomi and Raphael bickering on either side of Tobias, dooming him to absorb the brunt of their ire. Their squabble didn’t matter much to him, as he was too caught up in the strain of his muscles and the spiraling of his thoughts. An army. Through what means? They hadn’t the expertise, the resources, and not nearly enough coin. The black walls around him were closing in, forcing him to rake and claw at each brick, desperate to break free.


“I’m not the enemy here,” Raphael said. “I came to help. I’m our navigator.”


Naomi scoffed. “Ah, right you are. You begin navigating us, and days later, we’re attacked.”


“You were screaming!”


“Oh, I’m terribly sorry my suffering inconvenienced you so.”


“That’s not what I meant, and you know that!”


Tobias’s breath came out in short spurts, and though he fought to devise a plan, to simply think, he couldn’t. He was trapped in that dark and winding tunnel as if the tournament had followed him from the palace fortress all the way to the middle of the woods. The labyrinth wasn’t just an underground obstacle; it was a living, breathing entity, a parasite burrowing into his flesh and bleeding him dry. An army. We need an army. But his mind had been stolen away, wrapped up in murder and death, in poisoned wine, poisonous spiders, and poisonous men.


The walls dropped, slamming into the pit of Tobias’s stomach.


He had the answer.


“And what about the attack yesterday?” Naomi said. “Tobias and Leila were left to defend us while you shuffled about like a duck.”


Raphael flung his hands in the air. “I’m not a fighter!”


“You competed in the Sovereign’s Tournament.”


“And I almost died!”


“Shocking no one.”


Tobias’s stomach turned. “Everyone, be quiet.”


“Exactly,” Naomi said. “That’s what I’ve been saying this entire time.”


“He’s talking to all of us, not just me⁠—”


“I have an idea.”


Tobias’s words sent the group to silence—finally. Prying eyes panned his way.


“Well, what is it?” Raphael said.


Tobias’s throat tied into a knot, and between that and the boulder in his belly, he nearly couldn’t speak the words aloud. Sickness slinked through him, but he swallowed it down.


“You’re not going to like it.”



OceanofPDF.com

cYK
    
  


  


Chapter 6

Leila


“This is the worst idea ever.”


Leila swallowed a groan. The clopping of hooves and warble of birds usually accompanied their hours of travel, but Raphael’s whining drowned out all other sounds. He hadn’t stopped since Tobias first revealed his plan. Yucana had suggested they sleep on it—a delay they couldn’t spare—for the sole sake of appeasing every objection thrown Tobias’s way. Leila was nearly convinced Raphael had spent the entire night bitching, as She had closed Her eyes to his ranting lullaby and woken up to more of the same. But for all his protests, no new, superior idea was presented, so they embarked while Raphael’s tirade continued.


Tobias went rigid against Leila’s back, and She could practically feel him rolling his eyes. “I never said it was a good idea, just that it’s the only one I’ve got.”


“Well, it’s terrible,” Raphael said. “Completely idiotic. The fact that I’m accompanying you on this doomed quest makes me question my own intelligence. God.”


Naomi sighed. “For once, I agree with the mouth.”


“Did—?” Raphael sat up straight, glancing between Tobias and his sister. “Did she just call me the mouth?”


“Let’s turn back,” Naomi said. “We can think of something else.”


Tobias tightened his grip on the reins. “There’s nothing else.”


“We can find a way⁠—”


“For God’s sake, what else is there to do?” he said. “Brontes has an army. We don’t. At least if we take this chance, we’ll have some resources.”


“He’s right.” Leila’s gut rolled, the words, while true, tasting sour on Her tongue. “We don’t have any alternatives. We have to take the risk.”


Tobias brought their horse to a halt. “Call it to a vote? Who wants a new plan?” Raphael’s and Naomi’s hands shot up. “And who thinks we should stay the course?”


Tobias raised his hand, as did Leila, though it took more might than it should’ve. Only one vote remained. Yucana’s forehead wrinkled, concentration etched across her face. Meeting her son’s gaze, she raised her hand.


Tobias nodded. “It’s settled.”


The rest of their journey was silent. No one liked the decision, but based on the grey rising from Tobias’s neck and shoulders, he hated it most. There was a bitterness to his angst, like smoke and vinegar stinging Leila’s nostrils, and it left Her overwrought with guilt.


He’d made another sacrifice for Her, and that, by far, was the worst part of it all.


The greenery around them thinned as they neared the edge of the woods, venturing away from the border and deeper into Thessen. “The last place we should be headed,” Naomi had said more than once. “We’re supposed to be fleeing.” It made no sense, how their path to safety was somehow more ominous than the alternative, how each step in the right direction made Leila want to turn back and face whatever phalanx was on their trail. For once, She was glad for Her magic’s limitations. No one had ever been to their destination before, so shadow walking was out of the question. It was maddening, the dichotomy between Her rational mind and Her tormented gut.


Raphael pulled on his reins, halting his horse while the others followed suit. His chestnut gaze was pointed at nothing—the same broadleaf trees they’d seen for miles.


No, not nothing. Leila could see it between the leaves far in the distance. Grey walls and a thatched roof. It likely sat alongside a road, one She couldn’t make out from Her vantage point. Roads meant people. People meant danger.


“What is it?” She cringed. What a silly question. It’s a cottage, clearly.


“A watering hole,” Raphael said.


Or it’s a watering hole. She sank into Tobias’s chest, grateful no one could hear Her thoughts. Everything looked the same from the palace watchtower. It seemed there wasn’t much architectural diversity in Her realm.


Tobias pulled the cowl of his cloak up his nose, then clicked at his horse, commanding it to trot.


Leila went rigid. “Wait.”


“We knew it was coming to this,” he said. “No point in delaying the inevitable.”


And then all three of their horses were off, headed straight to their demise. Leila tried to feign resolve, but Her hands were clamped tight around the reins, Her heartbeat thundering against Her rib cage. A long dirt road snaked through the distance, and bile bit at Her throat.


As their impending doom neared, it became obvious the grey structure was not, in fact, a cottage. It was much larger than Tobias’s home, two stories of smooth clay, with awnings made of straw and barred windows like dungeon cells. If Leila had seen it up close from the start, She most certainly would’ve known it was a watering hole. Vindicated, She sat taller on their horse, only to cower as the sun flickered through the tree branches. She pulled Her hood low and balled Her hands into the sleeves of Her cloak, Her nervous fidgeting punctuated by Tobias’s soft voice in Her ear.


“I’ve got You.”


The trees parted, and sunlight blasted over them. Thank God for Tobias’s warm body and the soothing rhythm of his heartbeat. His arm swept around Her waist, strength She unequivocally needed. They bobbed and trotted at a steady pace, making their way from the shrubbery to the dirt road, and something within Leila screamed in protest. It wasn’t fair how vulnerable She was in these conditions. She’d killed men, had waged war against royalty and won time and again. But the palace fortress was a battlefield She knew well. She’d broken free of Her prison, and suddenly She felt so small and powerless.


Raphael clicked, nudging his buckskin mare to the front of the group. It took Leila a moment of deep breaths and calming thoughts before She realized where he was headed.


Her back shot straight. “What are you doing?”


The watering hole. Raphael’s horse flicked her tail, but otherwise the two of them seemed unfazed. “Asking for directions,” he said.


“I thought you knew where we were going.”


“I knew we were headed north-east.”


“And?”


He glanced over his shoulder, raising a thick black eyebrow. “And we’ve gone north-east. I think it’s time for specifics, don’t you?”


“We can’t risk being seen.”


Raphael tipped his head back and groaned. “Bloody hell, are we supposed to just keep walking straight and hope we land on the property?”


“I’ll go,” Yucana said. “I’m the least conspicuous. No one will find my presence odd.”


“No.” Tobias’s voice came out firm. “Too dangerous.”


“How?”


“Brontes knows Leila fled with the Artist’s family.” Raphael’s tone was uncharacteristically gentle. “They’ll be looking for you”—his eyes panned from mother to daughter—“and Naomi.”


“Do they know our faces?” Yucana gestured toward both men in their company. “You two are rather popular, while we have anonymity on our side.”


“With all due respect, I don’t need anonymity,” Raphael said. “Whether they recognize me or not is of no consequence. No one knows I’ve joined your cause. I’m going, and it’s final.”


“Since when do you get to make our final decisions, Mouth?”


Raphael bristled beneath Naomi’s jeer. “It’s the safest option.” Grunting, he hopped off his horse, tying her to the hitching post. “I’m not on the run. I have no link to your escapade whatsoever. It’s just directions. It’ll be fine.”


No one moved, each ass rooted to their steeds in a stiff, straight line. Perhaps standing in front of the watering hole was far more conspicuous than simply following Raphael’s lead, but any closer felt menacing, a blaze too hot to approach.


Raphael patted his mare on the rear, then threw his hood over his head. “Stay quiet.” He gestured toward the hitching post. “Look busy.”


The wooden door screeched as he lurched it open, then rattled when it slammed behind him. So much for subtlety. Tobias nudged their stallion toward the hitching post, planting himself beside Yucana and helping Naomi into her cart. Yucana busied herself with feeding the horses while Tobias stood watch, leaving Leila with little to do but fuss with Her cloak and pull it tight across Her chest. Voices drifted from the watering hole—all male, gravelly and drained—and when Raphael’s light tone punctuated the din, She flinched. A barred window was paces away, its clay sill layered in bird droppings. She abandoned pretense and nestled up against it, face tucked behind Her hood as She peered inside.


The watering hole was dark and worn to the bone, its slate walls cracked and crumbling with no sign of attempted repair. The tables were gnarled wood, some with lopsided legs stacked atop bricks, and the bar top was spotted with puddles and scuffed beyond salvaging. Filthy. Five men sat on benches and stools, a choice that baffled Leila. Surely there were superior watering holes in Her realm. There had to be.


“Excuse me.” Raphael stopped at the bar and flagged down the barkeep. “Where might I find⁠—?”


“This isn’t the place for favors.” A rotund man with a thick black beard and stained green tunic wiped a pitcher with a soiled rag. “You got questions, you order up.”


Nodding, Raphael placed a coin on the bar top. “Wine. Just a chalice, thank you.”


The barkeep barked something to a far hairier man with a mustache, beard, and eyebrows that monopolized his forehead. He poured a brownish liquid into a chalice—hardly wine, and Leila wouldn’t be convinced otherwise—and plopped it in front of Raphael, barely meeting his gaze before his eyes went wide.


“Bloody shit.” He swatted the round man at his side. “Abbad. You see who this is? It’s the fucking Intellect.”


“Oh, quit milking my tits⁠—”


“At the Commencement, I saw them all clear as day. It’s him.”


The barkeep named Abbad eyed Raphael up and down, and his scowl lifted. “Fancy that. We’ve got a legend here.” He leaned onto the bar top. “Madness, what happened at the end of it all, eh? I hear She vanished in a blaze of hellfire—the work of a witch, no doubt from the Outlands.”


“Do you happen to know the quickest route to the Joseon stables?” Raphael said.


“What was the Artist like?” the hairy man asked. “Did you ever speak with him?”


“Another round. We’re celebrating.” Abbad sent the hairy man scurrying off, then winked at Raphael. “You’re paying. We all know you’ve got the coin.” He let out a hearty laugh. “If you ask me, you’re the real winner of the tournament. The Sovereign’s Choice—that’s exactly when I’d want to go. Get the coin, get the glory, and get the fuck out. Live the rest of your life as you please.” He nudged Raphael’s shoulder. “Go on then. What’s it like? You must be drowning in cunt these days.”


“I’m really just looking for the Joseon stables.”


“Why would you want to head there anyway?”


“I’ve inherited a great deal of coin. Figured it’s time I invest in a proper steed.”


“Lies. He’s surely headed for the Siliassan courtesans.” The hairy man returned, a pitcher in hand. “They’re the finest in all the south.”


“Ah, I see.” Another laugh, and Abbad pounded the bar top. “Bet you’ll be doing a whole lot of mounting and riding, eh?”


That was enough. Leila turned from the window, wiping Her dirtied hands down the front of Her cloak. Filthy—She had been right about that. Tobias was watching Her, and despite his cowl, She could tell by his eyes that he was smirking.


“Very discreet,” he said.


The door swung open, and Raphael tromped outside. “I have good news and bad news.”


Leila hurried toward him. “What’s the good news?”


“We can reach the stables by sundown.”


“And the bad news?” Yucana asked.


“We have to cut through town.”


“No.” Tobias began unhitching his horse, ready to abandon the topic. “Absolutely not.”


“The alternative is circling the outskirts and arriving in two days’ time. Maybe a day and a half.” Raphael glanced back at the watering hole and lowered his voice. “That’s far too long to be in the open.”


“And passing through town isn’t in the open?” Tobias hissed.


“Maybe the town will be barren.” Naomi’s hopeful gaze darted between the two men. “No hustle, just empty.”


“It’s the nearest town to the southern trading post,” Raphael said. “It’s never empty.”


Tobias pointed to Leila. “You may have failed to notice, but Leila glows.”


“She can cover up. Look at Her now. You can barely tell.”


“Can we please refrain from speaking of Me as if I’m not standing right here?” Leila said.


“We were discovered once already. No doubt more soldiers are on our trail.” Raphael’s voice softened, solemn in a way that stirred Leila’s gut. “We can’t afford two days. It’s a risk we may not survive.”


Tobias’s eyes narrowed. “And you somehow believe marching through town in front of however many people is a lesser risk?”


“It’s a bold plan⁠—”


“You mean stupid.”


“They won’t expect it. That alone will rid us of their pursuit.” Raphael gestured at Tobias’s cowl. “We hide your face, Her glow”—he cocked his head Leila’s way—“and make our time there as scarce as we can. The populace will be our cover. But we must decide now. We’re far from town as it is.”


Tobias stroked his chin, grumbling profanities. Sighing, he turned to Leila. “It’s Your call.”


Her stomach sank. Another horrid decision to be made with even more horrid options at Her disposal. She gnawed at the inside of Her cheek, Her mind tossing and turning every potential misstep and the various ways She and the others could find themselves skewered on a spear.


“The woods aren’t safe for us any longer. That much is clear.” She pursed Her lips, juggling Her conflicted thoughts. “Raphael’s plan isn’t exactly desirable, but if Tobias managed to keep himself hidden in the capital, I’m sure we can do the same today.”


“And Your skin?” Yucana said.


“If I could hide My title throughout the tournament, I can certainly do it again now.” Leila caught Tobias’s gaze and wilted. “Soldiers will expect to see you and Me together.”


“Surely you don’t plan for us to separate?” Naomi said.


Tobias’s eyes danced over their party before landing on Leila’s. “You’ll ride with Naomi. Mother and I will take the stallion. Raphael⁠—”


“Alone.” Raphael nodded. “I got it.”


“We stay together,” Tobias continued. “With this arrangement, we’ll be far less conspicuous. Hopefully.”


Hopefully. Leila swallowed hard, starkly aware of the waver in his voice. They shuffled places like cards in a deck, Yucana moving to Tobias’s and Leila’s black steed while Lelia and Naomi claimed the bay mare. Raphael had suggested Leila take the rear, that Naomi could shield Her glow, but Naomi was much too tall, so Leila took to the front while Raphael strapped down Her new riding partner’s legs.


The Savior of Thessen, on display for an entire town to see. The reality of their looming task rattled Her bones, threatening to steal Her nerve until Tobias placed the reins in Her hands. She rubbed the hard leather between Her fingers and exhaled. It didn’t matter that She had no scope of Her realm, that the journey before them was a mystery at best. In that moment, She held some semblance of control, and that was enough to bolster Her.


The town materialized within seconds of their trek. Raphael said otherwise—that hours had passed, that they’d taken two stops to relieve themselves and feed their horses—but Leila wasn’t so sure. What She did know was that uneven plaster buildings stood in a cluster in the distance, and She wasn’t remotely prepared to reach them.


“Are we ready?” Raphael waited for a response that never came. “Good. Let’s make haste.”


He trotted straight toward the bustle and noise, not a second thought or glance behind him. Tobias and Yucana followed, and soon only Leila and Naomi remained, Leila’s hands gripping the reins like a lifeline. She pulled Her hood low over Her head, a paltry cover, until Naomi slung a burnt orange shawl over Her chest, weaving it around Her neck and shoulders.


“You’ll do great,” Naomi whispered.


Leila’s face flushed. She clicked, guiding the mare down the dirt road and leaving the foliage behind them.


She was right about the architecture. Brown, beige, and ocher shops with roofs of red tiles or straw and reeds stood in long straight rows. And Raphael was right about the people—nothing was empty, certainly not the road. They dashed in front of Her, sending Her horse jerking, stalling, trotting, stopping, as merchants scuttled by with baskets on their hips and carts of fruit or pelts tottering behind them. Some barked or cursed at one another, while others wore vapid expressions, their minds seemingly far from their goods in hand. Leila had studied trade in the palace, had read plenty of scrolls about economics and international relations. Never had She imagined it’d be so melancholy.


A cart pulled by a donkey clonked by, loaded with children who giggled with each bounce and bobble. Leila would’ve smiled had it not been for Her ever-present dread. Between Her dress, cloak, and shawl, She was burning up in the thick summer heat, but at least She wasn’t glowing. She wanted to praise Naomi’s thinking, but She remained rigid atop the mare, eyes darting between the back of Tobias’s hooded head, the foreign sights around Her, the people.


The road split in two directions, and Raphael headed to the left. To the right stood small clay . . . huts? Cottages? Everything was so unfamiliar, and She cursed Her naivety. She had never been in a town before, and somehow that realization hadn’t hit Her until that moment, as did the disappointment. Not a single trace of marble or etched columns, not one courtyard or stoa. Everything and everyone were awash in the colors of the dry land, save for the occasional noble in bright white linen or purple and blue drapes. Their golden baubles and sparkling jewels caught the sunlight, a stark contrast to the shirtless laborers in grey harem pants and stained skirts, sweat dripping down their backs as they lugged wooden carts. How could they walk alongside one another so casually, no care to the contrast?


A nearby door burst open, almost spooking Leila’s horse. A man tottered out, collapsing along the road, and soon another man was on top of him, pummeling his nose. He shouted about an unfair price for fish. Were they even close to water? Leila glanced toward Tobias, then Raphael—no reaction. Maybe that sort of thing was normal. Perhaps it was good, a distraction to take away from Her presence, but that thought alone was enough to leave Her tense all over once again.


“Kovahr.” The word left the lips of passersby, but She couldn’t catch the details. “Kidnapped. Treason.” They were speaking of Her and Tobias, and Her heart raced. “The queen left in a hurry,” they said. Did the Kovahrian queen know about Brontes’s plan to frame her realm? Had Brontes already begun to taint Kovahr’s reputation?


Naomi gave Leila a squeeze. Perhaps she could feel Leila’s stiff muscles, or she could hear the conversations much better than Leila could, or maybe someone had recognized them. Leila’s breathing became shallow. It was far too hot, and dear God, how large was the town? Surely they’d already trekked a hundred miles, if not more.


Metal clanked against metal. Armor. She could recognize the sound anywhere. Twelve soldiers on horseback rounded them, and obscenities bubbled in Leila’s throat. They were beside Her, near enough to touch, and Her hands shook as She dug Her nails into the meat of Her palms.


They trotted off, and Leila emptied Her lungs. Her hands still trembled, but the clanking of armor was fading into the distance, and that at least somewhat stilled Her nerves.


“Idiots,” Naomi scoffed.


Leila smiled, easing into Her seat.


“Inspection.”


Her throat closed. Raphael had stopped beside two soldiers in the middle of the road who had spears in hand. Tobias slowed to a halt behind him, and Leila did the same, panic taking hold of Her. How hadn’t She seen them? She’d been too distracted by the squad, too caught up in Her worries. Steeling Herself, She reached for the blade strapped to Her thigh.


“Name,” one of the soldiers said.


“Raphael Tortuga.”


The soldier’s eyes shot wide. “My God.”


The second soldier removed his helmet, revealing long black hair slick with sweat. “It’s the Intellect.”


Raphael nodded. “At your service.”


“What brings you to the shitting hole of the south?”


“Family business. Nothing exciting, unfortunately.”


The helmeted soldier, still stoic and guarded, cocked his head at Tobias and Yucana. “Are they with you?”


“My servants, yes.” Raphael managed a smile. “Can’t even function without their assistance. I fear I picked up some poor habits in the palace of Thessen.”


“One taste of luxury and you never go back, eh?” The sweaty soldier’s laughter loosened Leila’s form, but Her hand remained on Her blade. Naomi had stiffened behind Her, both women frozen and braced. As his chuckling faded, he swept his hair from his face. “We’ll be brief, it’s just⁠—”


“I’ve heard the news,” Raphael said. “An unfortunate turn of events.”


“Twisted, isn’t it?”


“Praying the sovereign claims justice.”


Still, the helmeted soldier didn’t move. His eyes panned down the line. “Are they with you as well?”


“Who?” Raphael said.


“The women.”


His penetrating gaze locked with Leila’s, snuffing Her hopes in an instant. She couldn’t make out the color of his eyes, but She could feel their path as they traced Her figure. Her fingers curled around the grip of Her blade.


Raphael cleared his throat. “I mean, no, but⁠—”


“They’re not?” the soldier said.


“They are, it’s just . . .”


“What’s the trouble? They’re either with you or they’re not.”


Raphael glanced down the line at Naomi and Leila. “They’re . . . Siliassan.”


The soldiers glanced between one another, unsure. The one with the long, oily hair broke the silence. “I don’t follow.”


Raphael cast them a knowing gaze. “They’re Siliassan.”


The realization hit Leila with force, and a smile cracked Her lips.


“What does he mean?” Naomi whispered.


“We’re courtesans,” Leila said. “Expensive ones.”


“O-oh.” The long-haired soldier flushed. “My apologies, I didn’t realize . . .” His words died in a jumbled mess, and he turned to Naomi and Leila, bowing. “Greetings, ladies. It’s a pleasure.”


Leila’s throat tightened. As She slowly, gently pulled Her blade from its sheath, Naomi’s voice broke the silence.


“The pleasure is ours, gentlemen. Ignore my sister, she’s rather shy.” Her words were melodic, a bird’s song dancing across a nonexistent breeze. “My, what a handsome group. Not quite as handsome as our Intellect, though.”


Leila snorted into Her shawl, ducking Her head to hide Her laughter.


The helmeted soldier eyed the two women up and down, the bite in his gaze not nearly as sharp. “Apologies, we didn’t recognize you as . . . It’s just, usually the presentation is more . . .”


“Oh, so you’ve noticed these rags?” Scoffing, Naomi gestured to her dirtied dress. “Would you believe our carriage was robbed some days ago? The Intellect defended us with all his might.” She let out a coquettish sigh. “We’re just passing through for a warm bath—and a warm bed, of course.”


The long-haired soldier’s cheeks reddened. “Well, we won’t take up any more of your time.”


“How gracious of you. And mayhaps keep an eye out for those carriage robbers? They were much farther south—closer to the woods, miles from here. I say take to that direction, and don’t return until you’ve rid the roads of their presence.” She leaned forward, perhaps fluttering Her eyelashes or providing a generous view of her décolletage. “The reward will be substantial.”


The helmeted soldier’s face was unreadable, but the man at his side swallowed hard, grinning childishly. They nodded as Raphael led the group away, and it wasn’t until both soldiers were out of sight that Leila released Her blade.


She spoke to Naomi out of the corner of Her mouth. “Mayhaps?”


“I don’t know how Siliassans talk,” Naomi said.


Leila shook Her head, Her shawl barely muffling Her laughter. “That was amazing.”


Naomi and Leila chuckled together, but eventually the group traveled in silence, the sounds of the town far more comforting without the rattling of weapons. They continued past dreary shops and bedraggled housing, navigating the sea of traders in a slow and steady rhythm. Never again did they see a soldier, or even a cohort, but Leila still held Her breath as if the fight of Her life were mere moments away. Even after they’d left the town, its greyness far behind them, Her lungs remained tight.


They may have escaped with their lives intact, but the road ahead wasn’t any more appealing.


Raphael had been wrong about their timing. The sun was still setting upon their arrival, painting the sky a glaring orange as it hugged the horizon. There was no massive wall like that of Her fortress, or a wooden sign like those in front of the town shops, but there didn’t need to be. She could tell they’d reached their journey’s end once the grass became lush and green, the trees shaped into perfect triangles and plump circles. Marble horses dotted rolling statue gardens, and the soft trickling of water from a granite fountain filtered through the air. It was a humble estate by Her standards, but still beautiful, even serene. She swallowed the lump in Her throat and could’ve sworn it was made of glass as it slashed Her insides on its way down.


Nausea heaved in Her stomach. Tall red double doors stood before them attached to cream walls with ebony paned windows and a tiled roof. The villa stretched far on either side of them, filigree carved into the sills, lilac bushes lining the entryway.


There was no turning back.


“Keep your distance.” Tobias appeared through his own grey cloud, his dread thick enough to blanket the estate. “I’ll do it.”


“That’s a terrible idea,” Raphael said.


“You thought this whole plan was a terrible idea.”


“I still do, but this part of the plan is the most terrible of all.”


“It should be Me,” Leila said. “It’s My realm. It’s My army.”


Tobias shook his head. “We need to keep You safe.”


“I’m The Savior. They’ll do as I say.”


Tobias opened his mouth to speak, but there was only silence. There was no logical rebuttal, after all. It didn’t matter if She and the rest of them would’ve preferred to flee from the task entirely. Leila was the only one who could make it work.


Clearing Her throat, She marched up the stone steps to the villa. She eyed the tall red doors, each wooden slat a stream of blood, and Her mouth went dry. Bracing Herself, She knocked three times.


Her stomach heaved, but She didn’t move. A lock clicked, and a servant with black hair and a flaxen dress opened the door, eyes squinted in confusion.


“Hello.” Leila spoke with calm and poise, a contrast to Her stirring insides. She lowered Her hood, and what remained of the sunlight set Her skin aglow. The servant’s eyes widened, but She didn’t stumble or faint, and for that Leila was grateful.


“I’m looking for Flynn.”



OceanofPDF.com

Cover
        
    
    
        

            
                
            
        
    

OceanofPDF.com