THE OPPOSING SHORE
Julien Gracq
Translated from the French
by Richard Howard
Columbia University Press
New York
1986
OceanofPDF.com

Columbia University Press wishes to express its appreciation of assistance given by the government of France through le
Ministère de la Culture in the preparation of this translation.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Gracq, Julien, 1910-
The opposing shore.
(Twentieth-Century Continental fiction)
Translation of: Le rivage des Syrtes.
I. Title.
PQ2613.R124R5813 1986 843'.914 85-25501
ISBN 0-231-05788-1
French edition: Le rivage des Syrtes
© Librairie José Corti 1951
Columbia University Press
New York Guildford, Surrey
Copyright © 1986 Columbia University Press
All rights reserved
Printed in the United States of America
Book design by Ken Venezio
OceanofPDF.com

THE OPPOSING SHORE
OceanofPDF.com

1
A Commitment
I belong to one of the oldest families of Orsenna. Years of peace and plenty
are what I recall of a childhood spent between the old palace in the Via San
Domenico and a villa on the Brenta’s banks to which we returned every
summer and where I already accompanied my father, riding round his fields
or verifying his bailiffs’ accounts. A naturally pensive disposition, studies I
completed at the city’s ancient and renowned University, as well as the
fortune I inherited upon my mother’s death, disposed me to be anything but
precipitate in the choice of a career. Orsenna’s Signory survives as if in the
shadow of a glory accrued in ages past from its military victories over the
Infidel and from the fabled profits of its commerce with the East: it
resembles an ancient nobleman living withdrawn from the world and
sheltered by prestige, despite the loss of his credit and the ruin of his
fortune, from his creditors’ depredations; its nugacious activity, still tranquil
and almost majestic, is that of a patriarch whose inveterately robust
appearance generates disbelief as to death’s gradual progress within his
person. Public duties and service to the State, for which the zeal of
Orsenna’s ancient patriciate has remained legendary, therefore offer few
inducements, in this debile condition, to whatever is aspiring and excitable
in its young people’s impulses: declining years mark the time a man most
effectively accedes to duties in the Signory. Consequently something fallow
and fabulous hovered over the libertine and in many respects unedifying life
led by the city’s young nobles. I participated wholeheartedly in their
feverish diversions, their enthusiasms of a day, their passions of a week—a
precocious yawn rewards an elite too long enthroned upon the heights, and I
soon took part in those delights on which the city’s jeunesse dorée prided
itself: delights of the higher boredom. My days were divided between
reading the poets and solitary rides in the countryside; on those storm-laden

summer afternoons which swathe Orsenna in a cloak of lead, I enjoyed
vanishing within the forests surrounding the city; the pleasure of such
untrammeled excursions multiplied hour by hour, even as the speed of a
great-hearted stallion redoubles with each furlong; frequently I made my
way home only at twilight. Such returns through the deepening penumbra
delighted me: even as the crest of its banners is ennobled for us by a luster
all the more precious for rising out of a mist of centuries, Orsenna’s domes
and towers soared more limpid out of the haze; at such moments my steed’s
slackened gait toward the city seemed to me burdened with a secret. My
nocturnal occupations were more frivolous: I measured myself against
young people my age in the Platonic tourneys of the Academies, which
have flourished in Orsenna in proportion as our Senate has emptied; I
granted much to love, and in its exercise proved as ardent and venturesome
as any other man. It so happened that my mistress forsook me: at first such
a defection struck me as no more than a matter of caprice, and I grew
troubled only upon realizing, suddenly, how little inclined I was to take
another. This banal obstacle to preoccupations whose rhythm had, without
my knowing it, gradually but excessively slowed, all at once wreaked havoc
upon what only a few days before I had regarded as an acceptable
existence; my life seemed to me irreparably blighted—the very ground
upon which I had so negligently built was giving way beneath my feet. Out
of the blue I longed to travel, and sought from the Signory an assignment to
some remote province.
Orsenna’s government, like that of all mercantile states, has always been
distinguished by a jealous suspicion of the leaders—and even of the
subaltern officers—of its armies and its fleets. Against the risks of a
conspiracy or a military coup d’état, long dreaded in an epoch when
continual warfare made it necessary to maintain considerable forces in the
field, Orsenna’s aristocracy did not feel adequately protected by subjecting
its military cadres to the civil authority’s closest supervision: from very
remote times, the noblest families saw no disgrace in delegating their sons
to functions within that authority which can scarcely be differentiated from
the practice of espionage, and whose effect had long been to quash any

attempt at armed rebellion. Such are the Signory’s famous “Eyes”: their
powers—unspecified but in fact always unofficially supported by the
weight of a great name and the credit of an old family—generally favor the
greatest possible initiative, even in the course of a campaign: if unanimity
of purpose and energy in the prosecution of Orsenna’s wars have
occasionally suffered from the atmosphere of suspicion and the timidity in
command engendered by such practices, it is assumed, on the other hand,
that the false position in which they find themselves is likely to develop,
early on, a certain political dexterity and sense of diplomacy in those whom
the Signory destines for its great offices. These suspect beginnings as an
accredited spy were long regarded as the obligatory path to the highest
distinctions. Given the decrepitude and nervous irritation to which her
powers were now reduced, Orsenna might have relaxed so intense a
vigilance without much danger, but the force of traditions, as in all
crumbling empires, grows proportionately with the explicit revelation, in
the machinery of government and commerce alike, of the preponderant
action of all principles of inertia: nowadays sons of leading families are
assigned to the Eyes in the same anodyne spirit in which elsewhere they are
sent off to travel abroad and to take part in great hunts, but they are still so
assigned; a ceremony grown almost ludicrous over the years, but
scrupulously maintained, continues to mark this fashion of assuming the
toga. My father, in his semi-retirement, had been distressed by my life of
dissipation; he was pleased to learn of my new attitudes and supported my
application to the Signory with all his credit, which remained great. Only a
few days after he had been informed of a decision favorable in principle, a
decree of the Senate confirmed me in the functions of Observer attached to
the Light Forces the Signory maintained on the Gulf of Syrtes.
In his firm intention of removing me from the capital and of inuring me
to the demands of a sterner existence, my father had perhaps served me
beyond my vague desires for change. The province of Syrtes, on the remote
southern border, is a kind of Ultima Thule among Orsenna’s territories. Few
and ill kept are the roads linking it to the capital, across a region which is
virtually a desert. The coastline bordering it, flat and festooned with

dangerous reefs, has never permitted the establishment of a navigable
harbor. The sea beyond is empty, and the desolation of these shores is
rendered only more apparent by ancient ruins. Indeed, these sterile sands
once sustained a rich civilization, in the days when Arabs invaded the
region and fertilized it by their ingenious irrigation systems; but life has
subsequently withdrawn from these peripheries, as if the too-niggardly
blood of a mummified body politic no longer circulated in them; it is also
said that the climate there is growing increasingly dry and that the scant
patches of vegetation are shrinking from year to year, as though devoured
by the desert winds. State functionaries ordinarily regard Syrtes as a
purgatory in which to expiate some defection of service by years of
interminable ennui; to those who remain there by choice the capital
attributes provincial, even half-savage tastes—the journey “down to
Syrtes,” when commanded, is accompanied by an endless cortege of
witticisms. There was no lack of these in the farewell banquet I offered my
companions in debauchery on the eve of my departure; and yet, in the
intervals of toasts and laughter, there sometimes prevailed round the table a
just-perceptible embarrassment, a silence difficult to vanquish, over which
fell a shadow of gloom: my exile was more serious and more remote than it
had at first appeared. Each man present felt that my life was truly about to
change: already the barbarous name of Syrtes was sequestering me from
that joyous throng. A definitive breach was about to open—and for the first
time—in this circle of young friendships; it had opened, and already I was
disconcerting the others by making it all too visible: I believe some of them
hoped I would vanish on the spot, if only to keep it out of their sight. As we
left one another on the Academy threshold, Orlando suddenly flung his
arms around me with a strained, preoccupied expression quite alien to the
evening’s frivolities, and in a solemn tone of voice wished me “good luck
on the front—at Syrtes.” I left Orsenna early the next morning, in the fast
coach which carried the official post to Syrtes.
There is great charm in leaving a familiar city at dawn for a novel
destination. Nothing was stirring yet in Orsenna’s sleepy streets, and the
great palm fronds spread all the more broadly above blind walls, the

chiming of the cathedral clock wakened a dim yet lingering vibration from
the old facades. With all that seemed chosen for me so decisively, we glided
along well-known streets already strange, chosen for me so decisively, by
their orientation to a distance still indefinite. This farewell weighed lightly
upon me; I gave myself up to savoring the bitter air and my own alertness,
detached already from all this vague somnolence: we were leaving at the
statutory hour. The suburban gardens filed past quite grimly; a chill hovered
over the humid fields, and I huddled deeper into the carriage and began
inventorying with curiosity a large leather portfolio given me at the
Chancellery the night before, when I took my oath of allegiance. Here in
my hands I was holding a palpable sign of my new importance, and I was
still too young not to take, in hefting it, an almost childish pleasure. It
contained various official documents pertaining to my appointment—their
considerable quantity put me in a good humor—as well as specific
instructions concerning my duties and the conduct to be adopted in the post
I would occupy; I decided to read them at my leisure. The last item was a
heavy yellow envelope sealed with the Signory’s arms; the superscription,
in a laborious hand, caught my notice; “To be opened only after receiving
Emergency Instructions.” These were the secret orders; I straightened up a
little and glanced fiercely at the horizon. A recollection, tinged with both
absurdity and mystery, slowly rose to consciousness—it had been obscurely
goading me ever since I had been assigned to this forsaken outpost: on the
Syrtes frontier where I would soon be, Orsenna was at war. What detracted
from the gravity of the matter was the fact that Orsenna had been at war for
three hundred years.
Not much is known in the Signory about Farghestan, which faces
Orsenna’s territories beyond the Gulf of Syrtes. Invasions which have
lashed it almost continually since ancient times—in the latest instance, the
Mongol invasion—have turned its population into shifting sands, where
each nascent wave has been covered over and erased by another, and its
civilization into a barbarous mosaic, where extremes of Oriental refinement
border on nomadic savagery. Political life, on this uncertain basis, has
developed in the form of pulsations as brutal as they are disconcerting:

sometimes the country falls prey to dissension and collapses upon itself,
virtually disintegrating into feudal clans seething with racial hatred—
sometimes a tide of mysticism, born in the depths of its deserts, fuses these
passions together to make Farghestan into a momentary torch in the hands
of an ambitious conqueror. No one in Orsenna knows much more about
Farghestan—and no one seeks to know much more—than the fact that the
two countries, as we are taught at our school desks, are officially in a state
of hostility. It is actually three centuries ago—in a period when navigation
had not yet forsaken Syrtes—that continual Farghestani piracies along these
desert coasts drove Orsenna to launch an expedition of reprisal, which stood
off the enemy coast and bombarded its ports without mercy. Several
skirmishes ensued, and then hostilities, which had engaged no major
interest on either side, languished and quite died down of their own
inanition. Tribal wars paralyzed navigation in Farghestani ports for many
years, and Orsenna’s shipping, for its part, slid into a gradual lethargy: one
by one, merchant vessels abandoned a secondary sea where commerce was
dying out. Thus the Gulf of Syrtes became, by degrees, a veritable dead sea
which no one any longer dreamed of crossing; its harbors, silted up, now
received only coasting vessels of the smallest tonnage: Orsenna was
rumored to maintain, in some ramshackle shipyard, only a few sloops of the
least aggressive nature, their sole function being to police the sponge-
fishing grounds in the appropriate season. But in this general paralysis, the
will to bring the conflict to a legal conclusion was quite as defective as that
to extend it by arms; ruined as they were and stripped of their powers,
Orsenna and Farghestan remained two proud countries, each jealous of a
long and glorious past, and all the less disposed, on either side, to concede
rights which would henceforth cost so little to uphold. Equally reluctant to
make the first overture to a peaceful settlement, both nations immured
themselves in a touchy and arrogant stagnation and henceforth, by tacit
agreement, made sure to avoid contact. Orsenna forbade all native shipping
outside her own coastal waters, and there is every reason to suppose that
analogous measures were taken, at about the same period, by Farghestan.
As the years of so indulgent a war accumulated, Orsenna gradually reached

the undeclared conclusion that even a peaceful diplomatic overture would
be regarded as an impolitic gesture, involving something too specific, too
intense, and likely to disturb in its grave this corpse of a war long since laid
to rest for good. The extreme freedom this uncertain outcome afforded
Orsenna to vaunt without fear of contradiction her great and honorable
victories was moreover a further guarantee of a general tranquility;
belligerence breathed its last during the festivities which still marked the
anniversary of the bombardment; and when the Senate, reversing an earlier
decision, determined to assign funds, initially proposed for an embassy, to
the erection, instead, of a statue of the admiral who had commanded the
expedition against Farghestan, all right-thinking citizens of Orsenna
applauded this essentially prudent decision, and felt that through these
bronze lips the war with Farghestan had truly breathed its last.
Such was the quiescent aspect, leavened indeed with a touch of
buffoonery, under which relations with Farghestan were generally regarded
in Orsenna. There was another one.
Reading the poets of Orsenna, one was astonished to discover that this
abortive war—by and large commonplace in the extreme and quite without
those picturesque episodes deemed likely to inflame the imagination—
occupied a place in their productions disproportionate to that vouchsafed it
by the standard histories. And perhaps even more striking than the
persistence they showed in making it the subject of their lyric flights was
their excessive liberty in adding inordinately to the known facts, in
amassing vast interpolations, engagement upon engagement, in their
accounts of this third-rate war, as if they had found in it a source of
inexhaustible rejuvenation for their genius. Moreover a powerful echo of
these learned poets was to be discerned in Orsenna’s popular traditions:
scholars had managed to assemble a notable catalogue of folk narratives
exclusively concerning Farghestan. Thus adroitly revivified in the poets’
verses, it was worth remarking that even the dead verbiage of ordinary
official documents was concerned, for its part, to preserve intact the ashes
of this historic corpse; thus the Signory had never been permitted—on the

pretext of some specious logical point—to change one word of the residual
wartime vocabulary: the coast of Syrtes remained, for the departments, “the
Syrtes front”; “the Syrtes fleet,” the wretched hulks it was my duty to
supervise; “the Syrtes bases,” the straggling villages strewn along the road
south. Not one leaflet had been removed from the dossier constituted three
centuries ago at the Chancellery; I had had occasion to discover as much
during the course of instruction imposed within all departments by the
Institute of International Law: all the old grievances formulated against
Farghestan slept here, whetted as sharp as on the day they were first written.
“There are seventy-two of them,” the Chief of the Southern Department had
informed me, as one might enumerate the cannons of a ship of the line, and
I had understood, from an inflection of his voice, that these seventy-two
grievances were an eternal part of Orsenna’s patrimony, a precious mandate
to be surrendered only with life itself. One might suppose, dreamily
enough, by the light of these vague signs, that this war’s very
inconclusiveness, actually the token of an irremediable loss of tension, was
the essential singularity which still nourished a few baroque imaginations—
as if a latent conspiracy had been here or there designed by hands still
determined to keep parted, absurdly enough, lips ready to close of their own
accord upon the event—as if someone had inexplicably cherished the
bizarre anomaly of an untimely historical event which had not released all
its energies, which had not exhausted its strength.
Now we were passing through the hilly, wooded region which shut off
the Orsenna countryside to the South. The Roman road occasionally
traversed narrow lanes, sometimes shaded by a vault of dense foliage,
among which vines too would thread their way to form a darker tunnel; at
the end of these prospects, trained like the barrel of a gun, opened out the
matinal blue of valley distances. All the ripe splendor, the opulence of
Orsenna stirred the heart, rising from these autumn-gorged fields; above us,
coolness dripped slowly from the branches, thinning like a fragrance in the
transparent air until the sun’s reticulation at last pierced through it to the
pavement. A calm fulfillment, the salutation of a pure juvenescence,
ascended from this infinite morning. I gulped it down like sparkling wine,

that gentle cavalcade through the open country, but it was less the gaping
future than the environing persistence of an assured and familiar present,
yet one already doomed, which filled my heart to bursting: distancing
myself with all possible speed from my city, I inhaled Orsenna as deeply as
I could fill my lungs. I mused over how tenacious were the cords that bound
me to this country, like a woman whose overripe and over-affectionate
loveliness holds you prisoner; then, from time to time, into this moody
solicitude crept, like a sudden and alarming gust into warm night air, that
disturbing word “war,” and the clear colors of the landscape around me
shifted to a just perceptibly stormy hue. Such insubstantial and fidgety
reveries wearied me—we had reached Mercanza—and I began to pay closer
attention to the countryside.
Once beyond the ramparts of the old Norman fortress, the aura of the
South was already becoming apparent in the gradual wasting away of the
vegetation. The misty dew that poured over the dank forests of Orsenna had
given way to a hard, luminous dryness, against which sparkled garishly, in
the distance, the low white walls of lonely farms. The ground, suddenly
leveling off, stretched to meet us in great bare plains which the road
scarcely bruised, beneath the sun, with a sharper furrow; the wind of our
speed clattered in our ears, forming broader gales over these throbbing
steppes. The clean-swept horizons, where huge herds of storm clouds
frolicked, seemed even more like those of the open sea when the tall
Norman watchtowers would appear, irregularly strewn on the bare plains
and overlooking the flat expanses like so many lighthouses. Herds of half-
wild oxen staggered up out of their mudholes and trotted off, horns high,
the whole massive throng suddenly bristling in the wind. This was a freer,
wilder country where the earth, exposing its true surface, seemed to invite
us, by exasperating our speed, to test its severe curvature and, luring our
galloping equipage ever faster, ever farther, to collapse all horizons into
infinite space. Night was gathering in the East and rose upon us like a wall
of storm clouds; head tilted back on the cushions in the dimness of the
coach, I stared up, exalted, into the calm constellations; those same stars
would shine for us over Syrtes itself.

When I recollect the first days of my stay in Syrtes, it is always with
preternatural vividness that the abnormally powerful impression of
strangeness I had felt upon arrival recurs, and always to that swift journey
that the impression is most fondly attached. We glided along the dusty road
as though within the current of a river of cold air flecked with vague
patches of whiteness; on either side, the darkness loomed up, entirely
opaque; everywhere on these lonely arteries, where any encounter already
seemed so unlikely, nothing equalled the impenetrable ambiguity of the
shapes suddenly silhouetted against the night, only to vanish into it
forthwith. In the absence of any visible landmark, I felt rising within me
that gradual atony of all sense of direction and of distance which paralyzes
us before any real symptom—like the onset of a fever—in the middle of a
road where one has lost one’s way. Above this earth benumbed in a
dreamless sleep, the huge and stupefying glitter of the stars broke upon us
like a belittling tide, sharpening the sense of hearing to a morbid refinement
of its dry blue sparks, as one cocks one’s ears despite oneself to hear the sea
divined somewhere in the distance. Swept on by this enthralling rush into
pure darkness, I reveled for the first time in these southern nights unknown
in Orsenna, as in some initiatory ablution. Something had been promised to
me—something had been revealed; I was entering without enlightenment
into an almost agonizing intimacy, eager for the morning already pressing
upon my unseeing eyes, even as one advances blindfolded toward the site of
revelation.
And it rose, that morning, behind the rainy scrub and the low clouds of
an empty plain. Sharp jolts shook the coach on our bruised and stony path,
strewn with sickly-looking patches of some scant weed. The roadbed took
the form, here, of a shallow trench; on each side, as high as a man, it
seemed carved out of a sea of dense, grayish reeds whose surface the
discouraged eye swept over and whose vanishing lanes the road’s continual
detours seemed to wall up at every moment. As far as the eye could see,
through the liquid mist, there was no sign of a house, of a tree. The soft and
spongy dawn was riddled at intervals by dubious flashes of light which
limped across the low clouds like the groping beam of a lighthouse. The

rain’s suspect and penetrating intimacy, the disorienting touch of the
downpour’s first hesitant drops, stopped up these vague solitudes,
intensifying an irresistible scent of wet leaves and stagnant water; on the
sand’s soft padding, each drop was imprinted with a delicate separateness,
just as one discriminates the more powerful raindrops which drip off the
foliage. To the left, not far from the road, the sea of reeds grew up to the
edge of mudholes and empty lagoons, closed off from the open sea by gray
sandbars where tongues of foam slithered uncertainly under the mist. The
country’s suspect silence was made more apparent by the sudden remissions
and hesitant resumptions of the rain, and the impression of unwonted
suspense communicated by its unequal intervals. Beneath this smoky light,
in this sleepy clamminess and this warm rain, the coach rolled on more
carefully now, affording our dubious journey a fugitive nuance of intrusion.
This stifling languor of a nightmare’s end withdrew into the depths of time,
recovering beneath this warm and moistened breath the summary contours,
the indeterminate fluidity and secrecy of a primal prairie, with its high grass
so suggestive of an ambuscade.
We rode along for hours through this sleepy terrain. From time to time a
gray bird exploded out of the reeds and vanished high in the sky, quivering
like a tiny ball on top of the fountain at the very crest of its monotonous cry.
A foghorn stranded on a reef somewhere pierced the mists on two calm
notes, as though from a huge subsiding bellows. Sometimes a gust of wind
produced a grim rustle among the reeds, and for a moment the lagoons
breathed their mist over a dim mirror, a dead skin without reflections.
Something was smothering behind this wasteland fog, like a mouth under a
pillow. The path suddenly became a road again, a gray tower emerged from
the thickened mist, the lagoons came to meet us from all directions and
sleeked the roadway’s banks at the water’s edge, where several ghosts of
ships took on a certain consistency: this was our journey’s end, we were
arriving at the Admiralty. The wet roadway shimmered faintly; alongside a
silhouette waving a lantern to guide the coach through the wall of mist
appeared a sailor’s oilskins, an old naval cap, and a hard short moustache
beaded with raindrops: Captain Marino, commander of the “Syrtes base.”

People had seldom mentioned him to me in Orsenna, except (the frivolity
of the secret services appeared here in its true colors) in that disagreeably
superficial tone, and with that casual unconcern by which the nuance of
some vague worldly connection is defined, as a man who was simply
“boring.” This summary disqualification was enough to dismiss him, to
push him into a remote background, all this way from the capital. He was
here, now: this massive figure emerging from the rain and suddenly quite
real at the end of this phantasmagoria of fog—we were to live together!—
and I suddenly was aware that I was shaking hands with a stranger, an
unknown quantity. The hand itself was strong, slow, and kindly—the
welcome a courteous one—and whatever good-natured mockery I could
hear in his voice was certain to put me at ease, once I came indoors, about
anything that might be a little scabrous in such an assumption of contact. I
realized at once that between us there would arise no difficulty as to my
singular functions—and this was already a great relief—but at the same
time it seemed to me that it would be a long while before I learned anything
more than that. In his sharp, quick glance there was a veiled penetration
which contrasted with the warm, loud and reassuring voice; in the calm face
and the cool mouth, a visible mastery and reserve. The eyes, shadowed by
the low visor, were a cold sea-gray; the tanned hand which lingered
markedly in the handshake was missing two fingers. Captain Marino
completely emerged from the mist now, and something in me murmured
that henceforth he would not be thrust back into it so readily.
Looming up out of the spectral mists of this desert of reeds at the edge of
an empty sea, this Admiralty was a singular locality. In front of us, beyond
a stretch of moorland overgrown with thistles and flanked by a few long
low houses, the mist enlarged the contours of what looked like a ruined
fortress. Behind the moats half silted up by time, it looked like a huge and
heavy gray mass, its smooth walls pierced by only a few arrow slits and an
infrequent embrasure for a cannon. The rain sheathed these gleaming
stones. The silence was that of an abandoned wreck; on the muddy paths,
you could not even hear a sentry’s steps; occasional tufts of dripping grass
burst out of parapets covered by gray lichen; the piles of broken stone that

slid into the moats were mingled with twisted bits of iron and broken
kitchenware. The postern gate revealed the formidable thickness of the
walls: Orsenna’s great days had left their mark on these enormous vaults,
through which circulated a whiff of ancient power and of mold. Out of
embrasures level with the paving, cannons stamped with the arms of former
Podestas gaped over a motionless gulf of white vapor, from which rose the
sea’s icy breath. An atmosphere of almost overwhelming desolation
suffused these empty corridors streaked with black saltpeter. We remained
silent, as though swathed in the disappointed dream of this anchylosed
colossus, this inhabited ruin on which the now so derisive name of
Admiralty set the irony, as it were, of a fantastic legacy. This numbing
silence finally brought us to a standstill at one of the embrasures, and here
there occurs for me the memory of a gesture which was ultimately to
become deeply significant: our eyes, fixed on the open sea, avoided each
other more readily; leaning familiarly, as though in mockery, on the carriage
of a huge cannon, Marino drew a pipe out of his pocket and knocked it
repeatedly against the breechknob. A yellow glint slid toward us through
the mist, and from the interior courtyards somewhere came the calm crow
of a rooster, absurdly domesticating this cyclopean ruin, and there also fell
upon my ear, quite strangely, the quick, dry “So!” with which Marino
seemed to close the visit and break the spell, hammering his boot-heel more
loudly.
Already the mist was turning to ink: night was falling. Captain Marino
introduced me to the three officers who served under his command: they
were all from the cadres of the “Syrtes fleet.” The welcome banquet was
served, exceptionally, in one of the fortress redoubts—on most occasions
everyday routine instinctively withdrew from it and no longer disturbed its
dreams: one would have said that these legendary bastions alarmed ordinary
life. Beneath these vaults with their troubling echoes, conversation was
difficult to sustain; I was questioned about the Orsenna I had left the day
before. Orsenna was far away; I looked at the smoke of the festive torches
rising vertically toward the low, bare stone, I breathed that cold smell of
cellars and moldering pavement, I listened to the heavy, nail-sheathed doors

waking the echoes of other corridors. Under this faint and theatrical
lighting, a halo of mist still lingered round faces I could barely make out,
the hesitant constraint of a first meeting added to the impression of
unreality which overwhelmed me; in the intervals of silence, which Marino
made no effort to break, the guests’ faces turned to stone, momentarily
assuming the bleak profile and austere mask of the old portraits from heroic
days hanging in Orsenna’s palaces. The moment for toasts arrived: the
youngest officer welcomed me to the “Syrtes front,” and Marino, hearing
the official formula, raised his glass to the height of a visibly ironic smile.
My apartment was made ready in the command pavillion: one of the low
buildings; the same cold and moldering smell dwelt in these long damp
rooms, crudely paved and virtually empty. I opened my bedroom window
onto the darkness—it overlooked the sea; a faint palpitation came off the
lagoons through the opaque air. The huge shadows fluttering after the light
trembling across the walls intrigued me; I blew out my candle and slid
between the rough sheets with their stale shroudlike smell. The faint sound
of waves glided toward me in the returned darkness; the evening’s
astonishment persisted—I pinched my arm; I was really in Syrtes! A dog
barking, the flutter and squawking of a barnyard were distinctly audible in
the dark. I fell asleep almost immediately.
OceanofPDF.com

2
The Map Room
More than anywhere else, it was easy at the Admiralty to be convinced of
all that was defunct in the petty policy of espionage favored by the Signory.
The image of an irremediable decadence attended any glance that swept
from the top of the signal tower over the “Syrtes base.” Opposite the
fortress, a crumbling weed-grown jetty enclosed a sort of harbor which at
low tide became no more than a stretch of mud flats. At the breakwater’s
widened tip rose the pyramid of a huge pile of coal; this was so rarely
broached that weeds and even little bushes had ultimately colonized it,
reducing it to landscape, like those strangely shaped hills that are the dumps
of abandoned mines. Two ramshackle-looking sloops were anchored
alongside the jetty, three or four motor launches rocked in the mud flats at
low tide. Behind the little harbor, a ramp up which launches could be
dragged led to a caulking shed. Toward the sea, a canal banked with grey
mud wound between the reed beds, reaching the open water through a
channel dug through the shifting labyrinth of the lagoons. The harbor’s
usual aspect was one of deep sleep; in mid-afternoon on those still warm
days before the boats were laid up for the winter, a mist of heat made the
yellow grasses on the jetty tremble; within the harbor not even the lapping
of waves was audible, and it was extremely rare that a thread of smoke,
heralding some patrol, twisted in the Redoubtable’s smokestack; spiteful
tongues, at the Admiralty, claimed that such an “event” was a sign of storms
—exceptional in Syrtes—and Captain Marino’s propitiatory philosophy saw
no harm in that. Some of the crews were housed on land in one of the
buildings that flanked the fortress; service needs were increasingly reduced,
along with the labor force on these forsaken outposts, the surplus usually
scattered among the few fortified farms remaining in the backlands of
Syrtes, where huge flocks of half-wild sheep are raised—the departments of

Orsenna, seduced by the considerable savings thereby accruing to the
management of this absurd base, had long since closed its eyes to such
unwarlike practices. Hence Captain Marino might be observed, more
frequently than on the bridge of the Redoubtable, booted and spurred to set
out early in the morning for long rides across the plains to engage in thorny
arguments with the uncouth farmers about lodgings and wages, disputes in
which the sailor more and more frequently gave way to the steward of a
peaceful enterprise of land reclamation. Everything concerning the budget
and quartermaster’s expenditures had thereby come to occupy, in the
concerns of the Admiralty’s staff as a whole, an essential place: the Syrtes
base had turned into a curiously profitable enterprise which prided itself, in
the capital’s records, on revenues rather than on military prowess;
meticulous bookkeeping and judicious placing of the labor force had
gradually become the touchstone by which the Signory judged its officers’
capacity. Orsenna’s mercantile genius thus succeeded, in the long run, in
turning to advantage the discipline which by nature should have offered it
the most energetic resistance; at the same time, even in this tiny observation
post, one could note the progress of its alarming somnolence, in the
backwash of military life and in the mute summons rising from the
reassuring and limited earth. Sitting on a fortress crenellation, during one of
those cool mornings which constitute the beauty of an autumn in Syrtes, I
could observe in one direction the empty sea and the empty harbor,
devoured under the sun by the leprosy of its mud flats, and in the other
Captain Marino riding into the countryside at the head of some detachment
of hireling shepherds; my hand brushed the huge warm stones which had
known the breath of bullets, and I felt a wave of sadness rising in me: it
seemed as if the blind colossus, betrayed, was suffering a second death.
My functions as Observer would, in this state of stagnation, afford me no
trouble whatever. It very soon appeared that there was nothing to observe at
the Admiralty; to spare myself a certain absurdity and to moderate the
tedium of isolation, my sole recourse was to attempt to befriend my
suspects, themselves apparently harmless. Roberto, Fabrizio and Giovanni,
Marino’s three lieutenants, were young men my own age, quite restless in

their exile and eagerly anticipating leaves when the Admiralty car would
take them to Maremma, the nearest town; these mysterious excursions were
the subject of endless arguments and witticisms during our meals together:
no women were to be seen at the Admiralty. I soon made friends with all
three and took a special pleasure in the company of Fabrizio, quite recently
posted here from Orsenna and as disoriented as I by the somnolent abandon
of this pastoral garrison. Roberto and Giovanni spent most of their days
belly-deep in the reeds, shooting at the migratory birds that flocked in these
marshlands; sunning with Fabrizio in some recess of the ramparts where we
had carried our books, I could follow their hidden progress by a wake of
mild detonations; a faint blue smoke rose straight up from the motionless
reeds; in the golden air of that late autumn weather, the raucous cries of the
sea birds fluttering up at each shot sounded like perforations. Evening was
falling; the hoofbeats of Marino’s horse rang out on the lagoon causeway,
returning from some distant farm; the bustle which enlivens any barracks at
dinnertime afforded the Admiralty a last fugitive trace of animation. Night
gathered all five of us round heaping platters of game, and we enjoyed these
evening meals when a noisy cordiality prevailed at table; for leagues and
leagues roundabout, empty shadows seemed to draw us together at the heart
of this oasis of intimacy. Marino’s somewhat monkish silence and reserve
dissolved in this bath of youthful spirits; he enjoyed our gaiety, and on days
when the mists, ringing our little haven, left us idle and dreary, he was the
first to call for one of those pitchers of redolent Syrtes wine that is still put
up in the old style, under a layer of oil. The dinner was coming to an end;
Giovanni the hunter coughed in the air thickened by cigar smoke, and
suggested a stroll on the jetty. A salty savor hovered over the lifeless
waters; at the jetty’s end, a beacon winked rather feebly; the shadow of the
fortress darkened on the lagoon behind us, an obsessive presence. We sat
down, legs dangling, along the quay where the tide offered a barely
perceptible pulsation; Marino lit his pipe, staring at the clouds through half-
closed eyes, and in a businesslike tone of voice told us what the next day’s
weather would be. A moment’s intense silence followed this invariably
correct forecast, like the brief interval of meditation at flag-lowering; this

was the end of the evening’s ritual. The voices echoed longer; one by one,
our little group disintegrated; one by one, doors slammed on the wall of
silence. I opened my window to the night’s salt air: all was at peace over
fifty leagues of shore, the beacon on the jetty shone over the sleeping water
as impotently as a candle forgotten in a crypt.
There was a certain charm for me in this diminished life. My occasional
reports to Orsenna were succinct, but the letters I sent from Syrtes to my
friends were very long. There were moments when, on a calm and luminous
afternoon, it seemed possible to contain within my own heart, quite
effortlessly, the faint pulsations of this little cell of dozing life that trembled
on the desert’s edge. Leaning out over some corner of the fortress ramparts
where a clump of dry weeds bristled above the void, I would embrace its
threatened extent in a single glance; the antlike progress of the rare
expeditions, the clatter of a team of horses, the isolated pounding of a
hammer in the shed, sounded as distinct as the vibrations of a bell at that
height—such familiarity was comfortable, was even sweet to me, yet all
this naive barnyard activity generated a certain anxiety, a certain alarm. A
dream seemed to weigh upon the somnolence of these ordinary actions
which I watched from on high as though within a cloud; if I lingered to
follow them still further, I felt rising within me that fascination with the
alien which keeps us paralyzed as we observe the stir of pure
unconsciousness in an anthill under our raised heel. My thoughts would
often return to Marino and to my first visit to the fortress; again I saw him
knocking his pipe against the cannon breech, a reassuring exorcism, and
suddenly I had the sense of his massive and defending presence at the heart
of this tiny colony. He was its very pulse, I saw his honest hands delicately
disperse the shadows impeding a desperately simple life; I felt how
different I was from him, and I felt, too, how much I cared for him.
The life I was leading had no rule. Our routine at the Admiralty was not
particularly severe—amid this diminished and quite ambiguous activity,
subject to the hazards of the weather and the whims of the sea, it bore the
mark of an almost peasant variety and discontinuity, and I more than

anyone else escaped its minimal requirements. I had suffered, those early
days, from a kind of vertigo—the freedom, the very blank before me—and I
had at first eagerly flung myself into the violent exercises which my
comrades enjoyed and which shortened for us these overwhelming hours of
solitude; we would go harpoon fishing for the huge sharks that ventured
into the lagoons, or would gallop after hares on the bare stretches of the
moor. Sometimes we would be summoned, at a nearby farm, to one of those
battues which periodically slaughtered the rabbits devastating the wretched
pasturage of the sheep; these were occasions of high festivity, where we
gathered to gossip and drink by torchlight until far into the night. The day’s
booty, piled high in the barnyard, emitted a strong stench in the evening air;
we would ride back, exhausted and half asleep; as the daylight crept over
the moors, the gleam of campfires paling on the horizon betrayed the end of
other such hecatombs. I was anything but robust, and these amusements left
my body helpless, my heart drained; I was not escaping Orsenna so much as
I had supposed into the health of this brutal life. Gradually, though, it had
begun to be tinged with a curious reflection; the idleness of the first days
tended to be organized, in spite of myself, round what I could not long
hesitate to acknowledge as a mysterious center of gravity. A secret was
attaching me to the fortress, like a child to some hiding place discovered
among ruins. Early in the afternoon, under the scorching sun, an emptiness
declared itself within the Admirality at the hour when most of us were
taking naps; through the thistles, I followed the moat without being seen,
down to the postern gate. A long vaulted corridor, then wet and disjointed
stairs led me to the inner redoubt of the fortress; the chill of a tomb
immediately enveloped me as I entered the map room.
The very first time, during my explorations in this labyrinth of courtyards
and casemates, I had pushed open the door out of mere curiosity, I had been
gradually invaded by a feeling I could define only by saying that it was of
the kind which disorient (as it is said a compass needle wavers in crossing
certain hopelessly ordinary steppes of central Russia) that invisible magnet
which keeps us true to life’s comfortable directions—which point us,
without any kind of justification, to an alluring place, a place where we

must, without further argument, proceed and remain. What first struck me
in this long, low, vaulted chamber, surrounded by the decrepitude of the
crumbling fortress, was a singular aspect of cleanliness and order—a
meticulous and even fanatical order—an arrogant refusal to submit to
decay, a semblance, at once festive and ruinous, of standing alone at
attention, a surprising aspect which the room offered to a first glance, amid
all this desolation, of remaining stubbornly ready to serve. Making the
hinges creak on this vigilant solitude, as on the theatrical and intimidating
array of a banquet before the guests enter, I could not help feeling, each
time, the faint shock one experiences in opening unawares the door of an
apparently empty room upon a face suddenly more sinister than that of a
blind man—absent, dissolved, petrified in the absorbing tension of
vigilance.
The room did not seem in actuality dark, but the daylight, falling through
windows virtually frosted by the many bulls’-eyes that embossed their
panes, preserved here an uncertain and somehow perpetually fading quality;
its penumbra, at all hours of the day, seemed to liquefy a stagnant
crepuscular melancholy. The place was severely furnished with polished
oak work-tables; against the bare walls, dark wood cupboards contained
books—almost all heavy folios in faded bindings—and old-fashioned
navigation instruments. Against the rear wall, halfway up to the vault, ran a
narrow, rickety gallery along yet another row of grille-fronted cupboards.
The bare walls, the maps, the smell of dust, the scrubbed look of tables
worn uneven as a palm, suggested a schoolroom, but one which the
thickness of the walls, the cloistral silence, and the sinister light had
confined to the study of some singular and forgotten discipline. This
comfortingly material impression was spoiled almost at once by another,
more disconcerting one: it seemed as if there lingered in the room
something of that heavy atmosphere—of stale and faded thoughts—which
hangs about places where ex-votos are tacked up. And—as if guided by the
thread of this vague analogy—when one took a few steps toward the center
of the room, one’s eye was suddenly caught, in the midst of these dim
shades of ink and dust, by a great, apparently fresh bloodstain smeared on

the right wall: this was a huge red silk flag, its whole length falling in stiff
folds against the wall: the Banner of Saint Jude—the emblem of Orsenna—
which had floated over the poop of the Admiral’s galley during battles with
Farghestan. In front of it, a low dais furnished with a table and one chair,
which the trophy seemed to designate as the focal point, the radiant center
of this chamber set like a trap. The same magical impulse which leads us,
before taking thought, to try the throne of an abandoned palace we are
visiting, or a judge’s armchair in an empty courtroom, had drawn me to this
chair; on the table were spread maps of the Sea of Syrtes.
I sat down, still a little troubled by this dais which seemed to call for an
audience, but soon fastened there as though by a spell. In front of me
stretched in a white expanse the sterile lands of Syrtes, dotted with the
flyspecks of isolated farms, bordered by the delicate tatting of the lagoons.
Parallel to the coast a black dotted line ran for some distance across the sea:
the limit of the patrolled zone. Beyond this, a bright red line: here was what
had long been tacitly accepted as the frontier, which nautical instructions
forbade crossing under any circumstances. Orsenna and the habitable world
ended at this critical confine, even more enthralling for my imagination
because of all that was so strangely abstract in its delineation: by having let
my eyes glide in a kind of total conviction along that red thread, like a bird
stupefied by a line drawn in front of it on the ground, the frontier had
ultimately become impregnated for me with a peculiar reality: without my
being willing to acknowledge the fact, I was ready to endow that perilous
passage with quite concrete wonders, to imagine a crevasse there in the sea,
an admonitory sign, yes, a Passage of the Red Sea. Far beyond,
prodigiously far beyond this magical prohibition, stretched the unknown
spaces of Farghestan, serried like holy lands in the shadow of the volcano
Tängri, its ports of Rhages and Trangées, and its belt of cities whose
obsessive syllables coiled around my memory: Gerrha, Myrphea, Thargala,
Urgasonte, Amicto, Salmanoé, Dyrceta.
Standing over the table, both hands flat on the map, I sometimes lingered
there for hours, frozen in a hypnotic immobility from which not even the

tingling of my palms awakened me. A faint rustling seemed to rise from
that map, to people the closed room and its lurking silence. A creak of the
woodwork sometimes made me raise my eyes, uneasily staring into the
gloom like a miser visiting his wealth by night and feeling beneath his hand
the faint, stirring luster of gems in the darkness, as if I had kept watch in
spite of myself, in the cloistral silence, over something mysteriously
awakened. My mind a blank, I felt the darkness around me seeping into the
room, weighting it with that yielding heaviness of a head collapsing into
sleep, of a ship engulfed by the waves; I was foundering with it as I stood
there, like a wreck crammed with the silence of the deep.
One evening, when I was about to leave the map room after a longer visit
than usual, a heavy footstep on the tiles wakened me with a start and flung
me, before I had time to think, into a posture of studied curiosity whose
haste could no longer deceive me as to the guilt I felt weighing upon my
presence in the room. Captain Marino came in without seeing me, keeping
his broad back complacently toward me while he lingered over the door,
closing it with that offhandedness born of a long intimacy with the void so
characteristic of all watchers of the night. And indeed I had, suddenly faced
with the intimate violence everything in this room expressed, the very sense
of absorbing strangeness one feels in the presence of a night watchman
limping on his rounds through a museum. He took several more steps, with
that slow sailor’s gait of his, raised his lantern, and caught sight of me. We
looked at each other for a second without a word. What appeared on that
heavy, closed countenance, rather than surprise, was a sudden expression of
sadness which extinguished it altogether, a singular expression of knowing
sadness, the sort one sees in old men on the verge of their last illness, as
though touched by a ray of mysterious knowledge. He set his lantern down
on a table, turning his eyes away, and said in a voice even more muffled
than the dimness of the room required:
“You work too much, Aldo. Let’s go have dinner.”
And, swaying between the huge shadows his lantern cast upon the vaults,
we made our way, awkwardly enough, to the postern gate.

This trivial incident was to come back to me with such insistence that it
finally made me realize its importance. Lying in my bed at the heart of the
tomblike silence, what I was trying to recall was above all that expression
of immediate sadness suddenly darkening his face like a shutter, and also
the singularly meaningful intonation of that voice which even then made me
turn my head and listen, as though to a sentence heavy with secret
suggestions. For hours on end, I was to let that low murmur slide over my
memory before finding myself one morning, with the suddenness of an
illumination, face to face with its too obvious meaning: Marino knew of my
frequent visits to the map room, and secretly disapproved of them.
This matter ultimately preoccupied me more than it had any reason to do,
creating, at least in my imagination, a kind of complicity between Marino
and myself whose slightest signs I set myself to watch for. I was soon able
to convince myself—though to be frank there was never again any question
of that evening’s encounter—that Marino had not forgotten. At the end of
dinner, amid that laughter he liked to provoke and to maintain, and when his
tanned face turned slightly purplish, I saw in his eyes, when they met mine,
a sudden shadow of embarrassment which obliterated me, passed me over,
excepted me from the unison of the joking group, as if we would henceforth
be dealing with each other only in a realm where it was harder to move and
to abide.
My life was gradually changing. I had longed for this exile in a sudden
need for ascesis: it was affording me a certain equilibrium. The vanished
pleasures of Orsenna caused me no regrets. I scarcely ever left the
Admiralty; I amazed Fabrizio by refusing even the easy pleasures and
immediate amours he went looking for almost every week in Maremma. I
no longer needed them. The scarcely justified impoverishment which
characterized this forsaken life in Syrtes, the ruinous sacrifice which it
implied and which I had consented to, bore within it, for me, the pledge of
an obscure compensation. In its very vacuity, its destitution and its severe
routine, it seemed to claim and to deserve the reward of an emotion more
overpowering than everything the festive life of Orsenna—so refined and so

mediocre—had afforded me. This denuded life was clearly offering itself, in
all the evidence of its very futility, to something which would ultimately be
worthy of taking it; disdaining all vulgar support, and as though venturing
out over a gaping void, it called for a sustenance proportionate to its craving
for the abyss. Its desolate charm was the kind which deceives the lookout’s
expectations; its outstretched antennae, insensible to the calm effluvia of
earth, were the entreaty of a breath from the open sea; its watchman’s cry,
an echo already implicit in the extreme suspension of the vigil it provoked.
This sleeping vessel Marino had managed so well to anchor at land was
setting sail, under my fresh gaze, as though of its own accord for other
horizons—its motionless navigation seemed to me dimly promised—I felt it
trembling beneath me as the deck of a good ship suddenly acknowledges
the tread of a venturesome captain. All was comatose at the Admiralty, but
with that troubled sleep of a night pregnant with divination and with
wonders; I extolled this life derived from my own patience; I felt I belonged
to that race of watchmen whose endlessly disappointed expectation feeds at
its powerful sources the inevitability of the event.
Impatiently I waited for the leave-days when the car to Maremma would
drain the Admiralty for hours at a time, leaving me sole master of a secret
territory which seemed, to my eyes alone, to release the faint shimmer of a
buried treasure. In the silence of its empty casemates, of its corridors buried
like mine galleries in the dread density of stone, the fortress purified of
indifferent eyes recovered the dimensions of a dream. My muffled footsteps
whispered through the corridors like a ghost, hesitant yet compelled,
relearning its rounds; I moved within the fortress, a dim life indeed, yet one
suddenly radiant as those lights caught between mirrors whose power
suddenly coincides with a mysterious source. My steps took me toward the
recess where I had lingered with Marino during my first visit. The dreary
mists that had walled it in then often gave way to great sunsets which
silhouetted on the horizon, like the mouth of a furnace, a flamboyant gob of
hard light. From the shadowy depths of this redoubt suspended in midair,
within its naked frame of cyclopean stone, I stared, half dizzy, at the dark
and dazzling sheet of sparkling blue as it coiled and uncoiled its sparkling

chains, as in a sea cave, along the gray stones. I sat on the cannon breech;
my gaze, sliding down the huge bronze column, espoused its thrust and its
nakedness, extended the frozen impulse of the metal, trained with it in hard
fixity on the sea’s horizon. I fastened my eyes upon that empty sea where
each wave, sliding noiseless as a tongue, seemed to insist on producing the
absence of any trace in the forever incompleted gesture of pure erasure. I
was waiting, without admitting it to myself, for a signal which would draw
from this excessive vigil the confirmation of a marvel. I was dreaming of a
sail suddenly born out of the sea’s void—and seeking a name for that
coveted sail. Perhaps I had already found it.
Those hours of silent contemplation flowed by like minutes. The sea
darkened, the horizon drew in upon a light mist. I was returning along the
parapet walk as though from a secret rendezvous. Behind the fortress, the
scorched fields of Syrtes unfurled, already gray. I was watching, from the
bastions, for the thread of dust which would be raised in the distance by the
car returning from Maremma. It zigzagged a long time between the scrubby
bushes, tiny and familiar and quite unthreatening, and I felt that Marino
would not appreciate my gesture of welcome which, like some watchman
on his tower, I let fall from too great a height upon this peaceful return.
When I think back to those days apparently so empty, it is to no avail that
I seek a trace, a visible prick of that needle which kept me so singularly
alerted. Nothing was happening. There was a faint feverish tension, the
injunction of an imperceptible and yet continuous forewarning, as if I were
caught in some telescope’s field—an imperceptible itching between the
shoulders you sometimes feel when working at a desk with your back to the
hallway of an empty house. I summoned up those Sundays vacant as some
supplementary reaches of the sense of hearing, the way one tries to read the
future in crystal balls. For me they unmasked the silence of an armed vigil
and an observation post, a hard stone ear fastened like a leech upon the
vague and disappointing murmur of the sea.
These clandestine preoccupations gradually alienated me from my
companions. Conversations murmured just out of my hearing at evening

meals, allusions veiled by smothered laughter would accompany the returns
from Maremma; some of the families of Orsenna, by a whim which
betrayed the extravagant moods of its nobility, had settled in the town to
while away summer’s end in that forsaken place; Fabrizio and Giovanni
frequented them assiduously. Certain names familiar to me were dropped
into the conversation; around them, for Fabrizio who pronounced the
syllables with a touch of ironical deference, I realized that there was
gradually gathering, as around a consecrated jewel held a moment in one’s
hand, a romantic luster of ancient nobility and a more exalted life; even
Marino’s eyes grew brighter for a moment—but to my ears their eroded
vocables now offered the very resonance of ennui and a singular
disenchantment; I felt, hearing them slip into the conversation, something
of the exasperation and embarrassment of an explorer who suddenly
discovers he has country neighbors. I would rudely interrupt Fabrizio’s
account of a picnic or an expedition out on the lagoons, and topple one of
his aristocratic idols from its pedestal with a sarcastic remark. I withered
Orsenna with my scorn; I soared a hundred leagues above it; and I despised
Fabrizio and Marino himself, who shared the outward aspect of my secret
life, for lowering me to their own level before these absurd caricatures of a
higher existence. One evening, at the reverential description of the
Aldobrandi country house, I gave way to a more elaborate outburst than
usual and suddenly left the room, virtually in tears. Fabrizio ran after me
and caught up with me out on the moor.
“What’s the matter, Aldo? What is it that makes you so angry?”
“Let me alone. You wouldn’t understand.”
“I understand you better than you think.”
“Is that so?” I turned completely around. The misty moon was blurring
his face, but his eyes, in the darkness, were singularly wide, his voice
incisive and under control.
“You’re a proud man, Aldo. You weren’t like that when you came here.
Something has made you change.”

“Nothing, Fabrizio, believe me, nothing between us, at least. It’s just the
loneliness of this place that makes me nervous.”
“But you like it that way—you make a point of it. You’re looking for
something you don’t want to share with the rest of us. You’re always
climbing around the fortress. It’s as if you’ve found a treasure in these old
stones.”
I let out a laugh that was a little too careful. “You didn’t think I was so ...
miserly?”
“You’ve changed, let me tell you. I know you’re my friend. But you
don’t have much use for me. You pity us for leading this life here, burying
ourselves ... even Marino ...”
“I have nothing against Marino, I give you my word. There’s no one here
I care for and respect more than Marino ...”
“You’re growing away from us, Aldo; I can tell. It makes me feel bad.
You’re getting so ... detached from everything ...”
I shrugged, embarrassed to speak. But his next sentence freed me from
my show of unconcern.
“Is it that you’re expecting something to change?”
I burst out laughing—a rather offensive laugh. “A big promotion,
Fabrizio. The salons of the capital are asking for me. They want to make me
an aide-de-camp of the fleet commander. Obligatory service at every dance
—officer in charge of compliments for all armed forces. What do you say to
that, Fabrizio? A giant step in any man’s career!”
“I say you’re lucky. Don’t laugh. Anything’s better than rotting in this
godforsaken hole.”
“Well, I’m having nothing to do with it, Fabrizio—think of that: nothing
whatever.”
He shrugged rather grimly and smiled—a sad smile. “You’re funny,
Aldo, you know that? In a year, you’ll think it over and see ...”
“I’ve done quite a lot of thinking already.” It was my turn to shrug.

Fabrizio’s voice suddenly became strained—a voice which seized me in
the darkness: “What are you looking for? There’s something strange about
your coming down here in the first place. Everyone knows who you are,
you could have chosen...”
“Is this a cross-examination?”
Rage seized me again. Infuriated by that inquisitorial tone, so childish
and yet so embarrassing, I cast about for the most wounding thing I could
say—no doubt about it, my conscience was far from clear:
“Did Marino put you up to asking that?”
“Marino never asks questions. But Marino doesn’t have much use for
poets, at least not at the Admiralty. I’ve heard him say as much. And you’re
a kind of poet, Aldo.”
The voice lingered over Marino’s name with that nuance of caressing
respect which was part of the Admiralty’s ritual, and which tonight was
unendurable to me:
“And the worst kind too, isn’t that what he told you?”
“No, Aldo. Marino really cares for you. But he’s afraid of you.”
I became completely unhinged. “I’m so likely to denounce him, is that it?
And I’m here to spy on him! That’s why all of you think I’m here, that’s
what accounts for my little excursions in the fortress. How simple it all is.
Everything can be explained. All those Sundays spent sniffing around the
corridors. And things are made so easy for me, aren’t they? All so kind—so
polite. Investigate, why don’t you, my friend? I’ll make room for you. After
all, I’m the enemy, aren’t I? Aren’t I the kind of informer you put in
quarantine?”
The expression on Fabrizio’s affectionate and woebegone face made me
stop. “You’re crazy, Aldo, that’s what I think. Look at me! Marino cares
more for you than for any of us. But he’s afraid of you, and he knows why. I
don’t ...” Fabrizio frowned with that naive and theatrical show of boyish
thought which made me relax at once, as if I had been talking to a child. “...
and sometimes I think he’s right.”

I clapped him on the shoulder, already beginning to smile. “It’s all right,
Fabrizio. Don’t hold it against me. And don’t let such interesting fears keep
you awake. Besides, I hear the sandman coming—it’s already late for the
children to be up.”
Joking between us had become inveterate. Fabrizio made a gesture as if
to chase me across the moor; our fists exchanged a few mock blows. We
were still quite close to childhood; I was just two years his elder. The
reconciliation touched our hearts with an easy warmth. But Marino ... that
was something else; Fabrizio didn’t know how to lie, and Marino never
spoke lightly.
The evening was a calm one, and like a wounded animal escaping into a
thicket, I plunged into that lukewarm darkness. My steps led me toward the
sea. I was fleeing the Admiralty like a creature that has just been driven out
of the herd and rushes into the night, in a frenzy of solitude. I had been
sounded in every organ and recognized as a different species, forever alien,
separate. I tried to imagine Marino, gripping his pipe between his teeth,
staring with gray, preoccupied eyes into the darkness and pronouncing the
sentence that cut me off. At that moment, I suddenly grew disgusted with
myself, every limb tense with an agonizing rage. I had supposed I would be
leading the most innocent life at the Admiralty, and everything had spoken
against me. Marino’s gray and inattentive gaze, that gaze whose heavy
intensity seemed to focus not on the face, but somewhere imperceptibly
beyond, again passed before my eyes at that moment like an inflexible
datum to which I could not help referring everything in my behavior, since
our first meeting, that was faltering and indecisive. There was not a word,
not a gesture of this life without mystery which I would not have tried in
spite of myself to conceal from him, not a moment when I had not felt,
before him, at fault.
Without my having even become aware of the path taken, I had reached
the thin tongue of sand which blocked the lagoon and ran parallel to the
coast. Amid these moon-varnished waters bristling with reeds, the sea
spread before me like a wide margin of dark fur, and extended to the

vanishing point in a long horizon the night brought closer. Behind me, the
Admiralty rose stark white out of the mists over the lagoon. I lay down
facing the sea in a hollow of the beach, and exhausted by my thoughts, my
mind a blank, for a long time I watched the moonlight flickering over the
sea in a silence that seemed to grow deeper every moment. I must have
stayed in that dazed contemplation a long time, for the chill at the night’s
heart fell on me and I stood up for a second to pull my coat closer round my
shoulders. It was then that I saw sliding in front of me, only a short way out
to sea, across the puddles of moonlight, the just-discernible shadow of a
boat. It followed the coast a moment and then, veering to the right of the
harbor channel and crossing the limit of the patrolled zone, headed out to
sea and soon vanished over the horizon.
OceanofPDF.com

3
A Conversation
Early the next morning, I paid a visit to Marino’s quarters. Sleep had been
out of the question, and when I tried to sort out my thoughts in preparation
for this delicate interview, I found the excitement generated by my
discovery of the night before to be anything but normal. I was eager to test
on Marino the very reality of this suspect apparition. Without admitting as
much to myself, I attributed to his accumulation of calm the singular power
of annihilating what I had seen, restoring it to the threatened realm of order.
At the same time, I realized that my discovery could scarcely please him,
and I had the feeling I was defying him, challenging a secret prohibition,
forcing him to show his hand. The mere fact of doing so in his own quarters
was already to assign so simple an action a certain weight, a certain
ambiguity. As I walked through the pale corridors that chilly morning,
Marino suddenly seemed to overwhelm my thoughts and my actions, not
because he influenced them but because he could charge them, against my
will, with some irrevocable weight under which I seemed to stagger.
I found him in his basement office of the fortress—he always spent the
mornings there drawing up the reports he would send to Orsenna.
Something secret and monkish hovered about this room which had
ultimately seemed to coil itself around him like a shell around its conch,
and where his imposing seated figure merely added a finishing touch,
consummating a remarkable masterpiece of placement. At the end of the
narrow corridor which constituted a kind of frame—as in certain paintings
where the magic seems generated by some miracle of balance—one almost
expected to see him miraculously moving. But this was the real Marino
whom I had before me and whom I was about to engage in combat: in
collusion with familiar things, sustained by them and sustaining them with
his protecting mass—a barricade of mild tenacity against the unexpected,

against the sudden, against the alien. His pipe, lying on a pile of dossiers,
was a challenge to the powder keg. His slow, deliberate peasant’s hand was
festooning its daily thread of ink across page after page. A long series of
identical days, days without either date or secret, had wrought this rustless
armor whose mere touch dispelled ghosts, had caulked this diving bell in
which—always as if nothing special had occurred—an absorbing mystery
of the commonplace was being consummated.
Alerted by the sound of my footsteps on the tiles, Marino had glimpsed
me while I was still some distance away, his swift gaze immediately
extinguished as though he had turned down a lamp, and had buried himself
again in his papers. He saw me coming. This too was a part of his defense.
He did not like being surprised. He waited until I was quite close to him;
even before his gray eyes looked up, his hand almost unconsciously set
down the pen, signifying to me as though against its will that there was no
hope of doing any more work this morning. He had been expecting me.
Such singular divination disconcerted me.
“Bright and early this morning, Aldo. A nasty fog today, isn’t it? It
always wakes you up early here—your throat starts pricking. That’s what I
always tell Roberto: a morning fog means the first sign of winter at the
Admiralty.” He stared complacently out the window; I felt he liked those
clouded panes. That was how he always looked at things, a sort of veil
floating over his gray eyes concealed what must not be seen. “Remember
what the weather was like the day you came here? ... I do—an old habit of
mine. Even a familiar face I always remember against the same sky where I
saw it first, and the shadows too, the clouds, the wind, the heat of the sun.
All the clouds ... I could actually draw them. Now in your case, I always see
you against a wall of fog, with a kind of halo. No, it’s no joke, a real halo—
the circle the lantern made in the mist.” His slightly forced laugh ended
awkwardly. We had never found it easy to talk to each other. Even Marino’s
intimacy had a certain willed quality about it, more obligatory than friendly,
that kept us at a certain distance, provoking an uneasiness no good will

could dissipate. His voice turned cool, becoming slightly constrained as the
interrogation grew apparent. “Nice of you to come and talk to me.”
“I’m afraid it’s more serious than that.”
“Is it? Something about the Service?”
“That’s for you to judge.” And quite coolly I described, making every
effort to be exact, what I had seen the night before. As the story proceeded,
I could hear my voice assuming an almost metallic and offensive hardness,
as if, moment by moment, I had felt credibility escaping before me. Marino
stared at me, his face motionless; I felt it was myself he was hearing and not
the passage of that ghostly ship by which I had hoped to waken his hunter’s
instinct—the way a doctor listens when his pretended sympathy disguises,
in the breaks of his voice, in the twitches of his face, the fleeting signs of
disease.
“All right,” he said at last, after a decent interval of silence. “I’ll give
orders for a channel patrol tonight. Though it’s not likely the boat will put
in a nightly appearance.”
His voice was dismissive. This was what I had feared most: the even,
professional tone was reducing the apparition to the status of a service
detail, degrading it to a breach of regulations. And yet his excessive
detachment alerted me—there was something about it a little too well acted.
I insisted: “It doesn’t matter if it comes back—what’s serious is if it left for
good.”
“Left? I’m not sure what you mean by that, Aldo.”
“It’s clear enough, isn’t it?” I was getting excited.
“Where would it go? Except for Maremma, there’s not a harbor within
three hundred miles. It’s someone in Maremma, having a little nighttime
fun.”
“Out beyond the patrol zone?”
“They were probably drinking.”
“Or maybe they knew what they were doing and had decided to go
farther.”

For the first time, Marino’s gaze betrayed annoyance, even hostility, like
that of a man who has unsuccessfully tried, down to the last minute, to
avoid making a blunder: “I don’t follow. Out to sea? That would be
ridiculous.”
“There are harbors opposite ... There’s the Farghestan coast.”
The word fell into a catastrophic silence. I was the one who had uttered
it. Yet there had never been a question of anything else. Marino said
nothing. I could hear the nastiness in my voice: “It’s a name that doesn’t
seem to have much currency around here.”
The answer offered me a wall of blank hostility. “Right, a name without
much currency.”
“But one you’ll permit me to use, all the same. When I came here, I had
reason to believe I was assigned to a military post. One that was more or
less inactive, I grant you. And I’ve certainly had even more reason to
believe that, since I’ve been here. But there’s no use closing your eyes: after
all, we are at war.”
I had spoken the last sentence with the traditional note of mockery, but
Marino’s voice suddenly had a ring of harsh pride I had not heard in it
before: “If there’s anything you find to criticize at the Admiralty, you can
put it in your service reports. That’s your duty. But your jokes are quite out
of place, Aldo, let me tell you. I lost these fingers for the Signory. I’m here
to guard these coasts, and I don’t think I neglect my duties. As for the way I
go about it—well, I’ll be the judge of that, and I think you’re a little too
green to offer your advice ...” His gaze gradually rose until he was looking
over my head, and the assertiveness in his voice gave his face a sudden
beauty.
“I’ll put that in my report too.” I felt strangely uncomfortable, confused
by the challenge of his tone of voice, serious as it had become. But already
Marino was realizing his mistake from the expression in my eyes, and he
recovered that resonance of dismissive mockery so habitual to him.
“We’ve let ourselves get carried away, I think, by a wretched sloop trying
to do a little smuggling. We’re not going to quarrel over such nonsense, are

we, Aldo?”
The gray eyes, behind the screen of slow speech, sought a sanction which
would exorcize doubts, trying to divine how much I had read in his sudden
confusion.
“I didn’t mean to offend you, you must realize that.”
“You’re a young man, Aldo. I understand. I used to be like you, eager to
do my duty. Eager and ... egotistic, in fact. Like you, I used to think
something extraordinary had to happen to me. I believed it was my fate.
You’ll grow old, just as I have, Aldo, and you’ll understand. Extraordinary
things don’t happen. Nothing happens. Maybe it’s not good that things
should happen. You’re bored at the Admiralty. You want to see something
appear on that empty horizon. I’ve known other men, before you—but
young men, like you—who would get up in the middle of the night to see
ghost ships going by. They ended up by seeing them. We know all about
that here: it’s the mirage of the South, and it goes away. There’s no need for
imagination in Syrtes, let me tell you. But we defeat it here—we end up by
wearing it out. You’ve seen those birds that run across the plains down here
—the ones with atrophied wings. They’re a good example: where there are
no trees to perch on and no hawks to escape, there’s no need to fly. They
adapt. At the Admiralty we’ve adapted too, that’s the way life works, and a
good thing too. That’s how we live here ‘more or less inactive.’ If you’re
too bored, Aldo, if you don’t want to listen to that monotony which gives
such good advice around here—you understand me, don’t you?—let me
give you some advice of my own, the advice of a father and a friend. You
know how fond of you I am, Aldo. You have a famous name and your
family carries a lot of weight at the Signory. My advice to you is: leave.”
“Leave?”
Marino’s eyes drifted away, remote as if they were searching the open sea
for some ineffable point of reference. “There’s a kind of balance that I’m
keeping here. It’s not easy, and it requires me to take away anything that
weighs too heavily on one side or the other.”
“And what is it that weighs so heavily?”

“You.”
I caught my breath a second before answering. There was no mistaking
Marino’s tone: at that very moment he cared for me, loved me even; I felt it
deeply. But I was determined to press on. “You’re sending me away. You
wouldn’t be doing that without good reason. May I know more precisely
what it is about my behavior that has displeased you?”
“Don’t turn things around. It’s too easy, refusing to understand. I’ve put
myself in your hands. A word from you to Orsenna is all it takes, and you
know it, to get me out of here for good. This is no service matter, Aldo—
this is a man-to-man conversation we’re having; I thought you understood
that already. I resent your being what you are, in spite of yourself. I resent
your being a troublemaker around here—until you can be more dangerous
than that.”
“I don’t think I have any such magical powers. Would you kindly show
me, once and for all, the evil spell I cast?”
Marino remained silent a moment, as though groping about for the key to
his thoughts. “I spoke just now of a certain balance. The reassuring thing
about balance is that nothing moves. But the truth is, all it takes is a breath
to make everything move. Nothing moves here, nothing has moved for
three hundred years. Nothing has changed in any particular, except for a
certain way of not looking at things. And yet between Rodrigo” (this was
the admiral who had bombarded Farghestan) “and me, there is certainly a
difference. Things are heavy around here, and stay in place: you wouldn’t
have much luck collecting the stones that roll into the ditches every day.
But maybe you can do something else. There’s a certain pitch of inertia
which has supported this motionless wreck these three hundred years—the
same one that sends avalanches rolling in other places. That’s why I live so
minimally here, holding my breath and making this empty shell into the bed
of that heavy sleep that scandalizes you so. I’m not criticizing you for
running around the way Fabrizio does, like a puppy let off the leash.
There’s plenty of room here to have your fun—the desert has worn out
stronger men than you. I’m criticizing you for not being humble enough to

refuse the dreams of these sleepy stones. They’re violent dreams ... I’m an
old man now, and I’ve learned what it is to die. It’s a long and difficult
thing, dying; it takes all the help you can get, and all the good will. Let me
tell you something, Aldo: things are killed twice over. Once in their
functions and once in their signs—once in what they’re used for and once in
what they go on wanting from us. I’m only criticizing you for your self-
indulgence.”
“Very kind. And if you’ll forgive me, somewhat over-imaginative. I
didn’t think life at the Admiralty had so many fantasies to hide. I’m afraid
you’re adding a few.” I had felt the sudden and stupid craving to recover the
advantage. I immediately realized that our conversation had passed the
critical point: all Marino wanted was to be reassured.
“All sailors are ‘over-imaginative.’” He laughed quite warmly. “... They
have to be if they can tell a storm is coming just by sniffing the air. But you
can set your mind at rest, Aldo, there won’t be any storm. There’s nothing
coming. Nothing will happen. Nothing happens to sensible men ...” The
voice was teasing now, but faintly troubled too. “And in spite of everything,
maybe you’ll get used to things here. The winter season has a charm all its
own. By the way—I was forgetting—a whole world of parties is in the
offing, so I hear. We have friends in Maremma, friends who are very eager
to see you. As a matter of fact, I’m supposed to pass on an invitation—
according to the rules.”
“You know that I never leave this place.”
“And that you’re making a big mistake not to—but that’s your business.
Princess Aldobrandi’s inviting you to a party she’s giving tomorrow. She
wants to see you very much and has asked me to make sure you’ll come.
Do as you like. You know her already, I believe. In any case, I’m not giving
you advice, the way I would to some young recruit in the interests of his
promotion. You’re a big boy now ... About tonight’s patrol—I’ll give the
orders now ...” He shot me a half-amused glance. “Why don’t you come
with us? It’ll give you something to do.”

Leaving Marino, I realized I was in a singular state of mind. As a
consequence of this tense conversation, which in certain respects was to
become so portentous for me, a sudden impulse had managed to scatter the
storm clouds at the very last moment. Marino had wanted to get me away
from Syrtes ... Once out of the building, I was no longer even surprised by
my own lack of concern. A host of memories surged up, dissipating those
clouds with the exuberance of a morning breeze. I began thinking about
Vanessa Aldobrandi.
The Selvaggi Gardens, in May, as you come out of the marble labyrinth
that overhangs the hill, are an unbroken pool of pale sulfur which glows at
the bottom of the slope, breaking into festoons on the opposing cliff of dark
forests which bound Orsenna on that side like a wall. Once past the crest of
the hill which isolates the place from the town’s habitual noises, at noon the
scent of narcissus and hyacinth flows back over the valley in a swirling
vertigo, like the attack on your ears of a too-shrill note which intensifies,
before satisfying, your thirst for a note even shriller and more lacerating.
On the last marble steps, invaded by the unbroken sheet of blossoms as
though the staircase were plunging into the sea, the leaves of an aspen cast
that veil of shadows so similar to the reflections of shifting water on a wall,
and the suddenness of the silence, after the racket of the streets, is that of a
magic site, of those abandoned cemeteries where the faint and faded
suspension of all things gives the mere buzzing of bees the plenitude of a
pedal point, and somehow the heavy weight of a visitation. These half-
deserted gardens were virtually unknown in Orsenna; I often slipped into
them toward noon, when I was certain to find no one there, and with that
ever new enchantment one feels at opening a secret and vaguely
conspiratorial door. The garden was there, each time as though for me
alone, revived in all its incandescence—in an immediate and mocking
transcendence of its promise, too, inexhaustibly bestowing... .
I had left the University, that morning, quite early and taken leave of
Orlando a few streets away from here: these clandestine promenades of
mine could somehow make me ashamed of his company. I was already

walking down the last steps from my chosen belvedere when an unexpected
apparition stopped me dead in my tracks, irritated and embarrassed: at the
precise place where I usually leaned on the balustrade was standing a
woman.
It was difficult to retreat without being clumsy about it, and I had felt in a
particularly solitary mood that morning. My indecision, in this rather false
position, immobilized me, one foot raised, holding my breath, a few steps
behind the figure, which was that of a girl or a very young woman. From
my slightly higher position, the three-quarter profile was silhouetted against
the sheet of flowers, affording the tender and aerial contour usually
produced by the reverberations of a snow-field. But the beauty of this
largely invisible face struck me less than the feeling of exalted
dispossession I could sense mounting within me, minute by minute. In the
singular correspondence of this ruling outline to a privileged site, in the
impression of an exclusive presence dawning upon me, my conviction grew
that the garden queen had just taken possession of her solitary realm. Her
back turned to the town’s noises, she dispensed to this garden, with a
statue’s immobility, the sudden solemnity a landscape assumes under an
exile’s gaze; here was the solitary spirit of the valley who tinged the field of
flowers for me with a suddenly deeper shade—like the tonality of the
orchestra when the anticipated entrance of a major theme casts upon it a
certain high, cloudy shadow. Suddenly the girl turned on her heel with a
single movement and smiled at me cunningly. That was how I had met
Vanessa.
I was not to realize until much later her gift of becoming immediately
inseparable from a landscape or an object which her mere presence seemed
to open to the realization of a secret hope, so that her being was reduced
and at the same time exalted to the significant role of attribute. “Bather on
the beach,” “chatelaine at her spinning wheel,” “princess in her tower”—
such were the quasi-emblematic terms which came to mind when I later
tried to account for the formidably residual power of that enchanted hand.
Things, to Vanessa, were permeable. By a gesture or by some wonderfully

natural inflection of her voice, however unforeseeable, just as a poet’s
infallible word seizes upon reality, she fastened herself to the world with the
same loving and inwardly granted violence which a leader perpetrates when
his hand magnetizes the mob.
Old Aldobrandi was the head of a family famous in Orsenna for its bold
and restless wit. His name was proverbially linked to every street
insurrection, to all the nobiliary conspiracies which sometimes shook the
Signory to its foundations. Scandalous abjurations, conspiracies, romantic
elopements, murders, deeds of military prowess crowded the chronicles of
this princely stock whose private conduct revealed the same unbridled and
arrogant violence which carried it in public life to avowed treasons as well
as to the highest offices of State. By measures of remarkable discretion, an
Aldobrandi had put down the agrarian revolt and the Mercanza secession;
another was said to have silenced the Farghian fortresses during the great
bombardment. Proudly immured in its Borgo palace surrounded by the
poorest neighborhood, this race given over to its powerful and withdrawn
moods brooded in its eyrie above Orsenna, fecundating or fustigating the
city like a splendid storm. Citizens would repeat the insolent challenge of
the Aldobrandi motto: fines transcendam, never failing to impart a certain
irony to the phrase, recalling for how many of the tribe’s exiled members
the words had assumed a bitterly concrete meaning. Vanessa’s father, a
conspiring demagogue convicted of subverting the townships he had bribed
with his huge fortune, had been the latest victim of these repeated
banishments; this circumstance, magnified by the imagination of a very
young man, had qualified my relations with Vanessa by an exalted and
romantic respect; she was one of the greatest matches to be made in the city
and quite heedless of a father she had scarcely ever seen: I protected, I
venerated in her an orphan threatened by mysteries on all sides. We met
each other almost nowhere but in this garden which lavished its secret
efflorescence for our sake, and rare were the occasions, I believe, when we
even spoke—we remained without words for moments on end, confronting
that scorched ocean Vanessa revealed to me whenever I considered the
world through her eyes, for in them tossed the murky reflections of the

distant seas the exile had crossed—her misery, which I exaggerated to
myself, cast over my joys a shadow of secret reserve, and over the less
chaste thoughts which occurred to me something like the ban of a sacrilege;
I loved her in absentia, without hoping she would become closer to me and
as if her dreamy, immaterial hand were created only to give order, in an
infinitely deepened distance, to the perspective of my dreams. When she
spoke to me of those countries from which her father occasionally wrote,
her voice, deepening until it was almost guttural, betrayed a calm
exaltation. Facing Orsenna and the affairs of everyday life, her detachment
was extreme and disdainful. At the heart of this city so complacently coiled
upon its wealth, and in which she was the Alien par excellence, these
conversations led me into a mysterious and dissolving labyrinth. Next to
this frail figure which cast its anathema upon a mediocre and indulgent life,
I mentally renounced Orsenna and its reassuring—and detested—health; I
would return from the Selvaggi Gardens through dim and disenchanted
streets, my afternoons dragging through an interminable languor.
Sometimes I would reopen the garden gate at twilight, with all the
precautions of a smuggler; I crept to our now empty place. The sun would
be setting behind the ink-black forest wall; a mist already covered the
garden’s lower slopes and was rising like a tide toward our belvedere; tense
and motionless, I stared through the waning light at the outlines of the dark
trees silhouetted against the horizon’s luminous strip. Here Vanessa’s last
gaze had fallen; I waited for the appearance of what it had mysteriously
indicated to me. The garden was vanishing in its hostile, sequestered silence
and drove me away; I kissed the cold stone where Vanessa had been leaning
and returned through the suburb’s black streets, among the low houses
squeezed between their yews and pointing cypresses where they resembled
nothing so much as lighted graves.
Gradually I detached myself from a life without accidents, without
excitement. Vanessa withered all my pleasures and wakened me to a subtle
disenchantment; to me she opened deserts, and these deserts spread by
patches and scraps, like an insidious leprosy. Little by little I gave over my
work; my door was no longer open to friends most of the time, and nothing

pleased me so much, now, as the prospect of an empty day focused at noon
upon that one meeting with Vanessa. Regular tasks and occupations had
become wearisome to me. With all the provocative extravagance of youth, I
reduced the manifestations of my disgust to absurdity: astounding my
family, I claimed that Orsenna stank of swamps and refused, except for
these brief encounters, to venture out into sunlight. I prowled the city by
night, brushing past those figures—just too fast or too slow—whom the day
momentarily mechanizes and whom the depths of night, like the pitiless last
lap of the race, scatters about the streets, as tragically naked as lame cattle
or beasts of prey. Something louche and wounded loitered in Orsenna’s
streets at this moment of bleak exhaustion. It was as if the stagnant water
lapping at the pilings of the lower town had withdrawn to their lowest level
and revealed the mud-stained dilapidated forest of fevers which served to
prop it up; with delectation I plunged into those fermenting depths; an
instinct suddenly revealed to me as if to a visionary the threatened city,
great pieces of its ruined crust collapsing into these swamps of which it had
been the ultimate flowering. Like the face of a woman still beautiful yet
irremediably aging, suddenly revealed by the tragic light of dawn in all its
crackled horror, Orsenna’s countenance confessed its exhaustion to me; a
breath of remote annunciation passed through me, warning that the city had
lived too long, that its hour had come, and as I struggled against it during
those murky nights when all betrayals are declared, I felt that the forces
which had hitherto sustained it were changing camp.
It had occasionally seemed to me that I might find an unavowed
justification for these childish dreams, some excuse which could become
active. To one contemplating it with an unprejudiced eye, the city
sometimes seemed to doze in broad daylight, as though caught in a net
mended with greater difficulty each day—a net of exhausted habits. The
perspective now afforded by my journey to Syrtes warranted still keener
perspicuity; memory decanted, at this distance, impressions hitherto
jumbled and dissolved in that tumult of the quotidian which inundates us in
its trivial agitation. For me, Vanessa had been that tiny crack which reveals
the depth of an invisible crystal; but appearances at Orsenna—as a stranger

is the first to discern the alterations of disease on a face familiar to us—
once I had taken my distance, were no longer those of health. The
expression of the people in the streets on feast-days—still sumptuous and
still faithfully observed—was that of boredom beneath an over-scrupulous
imitation of pleasure: this festive garment kept something faded and
hopeless about it, like those soldiers’ uniforms which retain the dusty folds
and creases of the closet. Loyalty to tradition, having become almost a
fetish, expressed the impoverishment of a blood incapable of fresh
creations. One was sometimes reminded of those desiccated, well-preserved
old men who manage to deceive those around them for some time—as life
recedes, they seem to reveal instead, each year more imperiously, more
emphatically, the strong and convincing reality of their skeletons: thus it
had come about that everywhere abroad the Signory’s constitution was cited
as an example of a model political machine, which in actuality functioned
for the satisfaction of connoisseurs with the mocking perfection of a
museum piece, as though at the heart of a disturbing void which no longer
resolved doubts as to the vigor of the mechanism which still kept it in
working order. The skepticism of the upper classes had become profound
indeed, as the meticulous service regulations had grown more demanding
and a pitiless point of honor was attached to their strict execution. One
symptom which upon reflection might appear especially disquieting was
represented, for me, by the cravings for travel, by the cosmopolitan spirit,
the bizarre whims now beginning to depopulate, in one place after the next,
this anthill all too ingeniously arranged—as if the blood had coursed to the
skin to be refreshed—by the wandering humor which had seized upon the
most cultivated minds. Was I myself not an example of this? I began
thinking more attentively about that singular colony of Maremma by which
Fabrizio set so much store. Yes, Vanessa would find her place there marked
out in advance.
While the Redoubtable was gradually making way through a calm sea, I
began smiling at what this imminent encounter promised for me, and for me
alone, in the way of striking news. I had long since lost sight of Vanessa:
old Aldobrandi, mortally bored with exile, had ended by noisily demanding

his family’s presence abroad. I was very young—I forgot; or thought I was
forgetting. I had inattentively learned, subsequently, of his return and his
sudden recovery of favor, and I concluded with an ironic smile that matters
were proceeding according to plan: henceforth Orsenna would make terms
with forces which were scarcely likely to work to her advantage.
The night had become very dark. Standing beside me on the bridge,
Marino stared off the bow. His body vanished beneath the shimmering
reflections of black oilskin. His face was oddly framed, the features
sharpened by the tension of his vigil. He was expecting no results, I knew,
from this banal night patrol, but Marino did nothing by halves. On this
reassuring sea the Redoubtable was steaming ahead, ready for any
encounter, its crew alerted, its cannons loaded. Absurd as it might seem,
confronting the tense reality of this little military world advancing into the
dark—a world which I had so frivolously unleashed—I felt troubled and
uncertain. I suffered from something like a belated remorse and the panic of
the sorceror’s apprentice when, at first quite gently and to his incredulous
astonishment, objects impudently mistreated began to move; as the ship
moved ahead with the grudging dislocation of a wakened animal, I too
moved, at grips with a faint embarrassment and yet with the exalting
sentiment of a magical release. I had made the Redoubtable take to the
waves; dozens of wide eyes were relaying my own uncertain gaze out over
the dark water. Through the opaque night, a muffled network of voices was
echoing to harsh commands—those brief and alluring sounds, those fatal
resonances which rise from human throats within any machine launched
toward an adventurous horizon. A careful efficacy, tense and vigilant, was
accumulating around us through the darkness; I felt it seething and
crackling with the exact intervals of a mechanism in working order. Even
Marino’s gaze, that steady and coldly lucid gaze, grew slightly feverish, as
at the first whiff of the subtly magnetized atmosphere of action. This
military stir, like the ambiguity of a game that might become serious from
one moment to the next, granted in its turn consistency and reality to the
suspect apparition of the night before, released a subtle series of operations:
I almost expected to see looming up before me the enigmatic silhouette—I

searched the darkness with a gaze more intent by the moment; once or
twice, when a brighter reflection played over the waves, I consciously kept
my hand from clutching at Marino’s arm. Was I seeing things? Such a
gesture would have been, at that moment, the sign one makes to an
accomplice. The blood of the corsairs spoke aloud in Marino; I felt him,
beside me, suddenly almost as nervous as I was. We were, at that moment,
two hunters prowling through the night, the whole craft beneath us
shuddering as in the squall of a sudden fever of risk.
“A fine night, Aldo, wouldn’t you say?”
There was a repressed tremulousness in his voice which suddenly
betrayed him, within his element, as inexplicably committed. I realized that
he would resent me, tomorrow, for an effusion so uncharacteristic. But
tonight brought together, in the two of us, two very intimate foes; by this
ship which trembled beneath our feet, we were communicating in the
depths.
“A fine night. The best I’ve spent in Syrtes so far.”
On the bridge in the half-darkness, there then occurred something very
solemn, without shifting his gaze, Marino’s hand groped for my arm and
rested on it a second. I felt my heart swell as though granted some
extraordinary permission—like a man in front of whom a door opens where
he had not even dared knock.
“But you don’t really like taking out the Redoubtable ...”
“Not too often, Aldo. In fact, as little as possible. It seems as if I’m not
earning my pay. It seems as if I’m taking a vacation.”
The moon rose over an absolutely calm sea, through a night so
transparent we could hear, from the thickets along the coast, coming closer
and closer, the faint clucking and cackling of the marsh birds frightened in
the reeds by our wake. The coast we were skirting bristled like a black wall
against the moon with the motionless spears of its reeds. Silent as a night
prowler, the Redoubtable’s flat hull slid through these shallow channels
with a sureness that revealed its captain’s infallible eye. Behind the dark
rim, the desert stretches of Syrtes reflected the majesty of a field of stars all

the way to the horizon. It was good, tonight, to be out to sea with Marino; it
was encouraging to venture with him into the mystery of this warm
darkness.
OceanofPDF.com

4
The Ruins of Sagra
Fabrizio woke me early the next morning, bursting into my room with an
ironic, knowing expression. “Here I am starving for the details of last
night’s expedition. Apparently you drew a blank ...”
Such swaggering, at such an hour, was unpalatable. Last night’s
confusions had certainly left me nothing to say to Fabrizio. There were too
many barriers between us. “Go to the devil, Fabrizio! People with real work
to do need their sleep. Run along and play somewhere else!”
But Fabrizio was not persuaded to leave the field. Crossly huddled under
my blankets, I watched with open hostility as he fidgeted around the room,
throwing the windows open, glancing at the maps of Syrtes that littered my
desk.
“Chilly in here, isn’t it ... What’s this? My, that’s nice, careful work you
do ... God, it must have been exciting for you ... ‘the patrol line,’” he
murmured significantly, staring at the map with an inquiring look. “I’ll bet
you didn’t run any risk of crossing it with Marino. How far from the coast
did you get?” he asked with a sly turn of his head.
“Marino knows what he has to do, and he can do it without any help from
you. Shut that window, Fabrizio—shut it now, or you’ll be sorry. You want
me to catch my death? I’m sleeping, do you realize that, sleeping! I think
I’d better throw you out of here,” I added, though without much conviction.
“‘Throw you out of here’ ... Kindness itself, from my comrade-in-arms ...
All right, all right, whatever you say. There’s still time. You can tell me all
about it later, as we march along.”
“I feel as much like marching as I do like being hanged. Damn it,
Fabrizio, close that door!”

Fabrizio looked at his watch. “We’ve got about fifteen minutes to get out
of here, the two of us, or else we’ll be late. You’d better start getting
dressed.”
“Once and for all, Fabrizo, go to hell!”
Fabrizio shrugged and rolled his eyes with an exaggeratedly pained
expression. “All right, Aldo, at least try to pull yourself together. The
ceremony’s for this morning!”
Getting up, a dreary prospect, was in fact becoming an imperative one:
Marino, in a very official tone of voice, had mentioned this ceremony in
honor of the dead, quite a ritual at the Admiralty, and the Observer assigned
to the Light Forces could not fail to be present without causing a sort of
scandal. I pulled on my clothes, grumbling. Moreover, I couldn’t quite
convince myself that this was just a routine task—Marino would be taking
part in it, and this ceremony awakened in me a vague curiosity.
The road, under our boots, on this crisp morning, rang out hard and clear.
Fabrizio led the way. The Admiralty cemetery, lost in the wilderness of
reeds, was no more than a few hundred yards off. A bright sun was
glistening over Syrtes. As I walked beside Fabrizio, who was comically stiff
in his finest uniform, my spirits were gradually restored: on this dry and
frosty morning, clattering along the smooth roadway, you could take a
lively pleasure in not being dead.
We said nothing. From time to time Fabrizio shot me a sidelong glance.
Evidently his curiosity was seeking some means of drawing me out. Just
then we passed a little mound which afforded a view of the sea.
“You must have heard the loons, off Sands Point. There are supposed to
be thousands of them out there—it means the winter will be a cold one.
Giovanni says he’s never seen so many as this year.”
“Yes, we went past Sands Point, if that’s what you want to know. And
kept close in to shore—close enough to touch, if you enjoy hearing that ...”
I felt, in my turn, the craving to attack Fabrizio. “... What made you say,
before, that we didn’t run a risk of crossing the patrol line?”

Fabrizio looked solemn. “Marino would never agree to that. You don’t
know him, if you think he would.”
“You didn’t just cross it yourself, as it happens?”
“As it happens, I did, just once.” It was apparent that this recollection
was not a particularly pleasant one.
“And he chewed you out for it?”
“My God, what a fuss! Marino went really crazy. You know the voice he
puts on when he thinks there’s something wrong: it’s enough to freeze your
blood. My heart was really in my boots. ‘You’re a brainless fool, incapable
of understanding the meaning of your actions.’ ... That kind of thing.
Thunder and lightning. Let me tell you, I’m not about to try it again ... Of
course this is just between us—between friends, Aldo. No use letting it get
back to the city.”
“I’m honored by your confidence. But tell me one thing—what could
make you do something that stupid in the first place?”
Fabrizio’s expression became quite contrite: “Well, you know how it is—
I was taking the Redoubtable out for the first time. And I was quite full of
myself, up there on the bridge all alone. I wanted to do something big.
Something that would make a noise. Besides, doesn’t it seem funny—I
mean, if you’re a sailor it’s not exactly normal for a warship to spend all its
time poking around the mud flats, when it could just as well be—going
right across ...”
“And that’s what you did—go across?”
“Yes, I wanted to forget about the mud flats for a while. So I headed
straight east. The old crew gave me some funny looks.”
“Funny looks?”
“It’s hard to explain—it wasn’t anything you could put your finger on.
They didn’t know what to say. It made a difference for them, you know ...
losing sight of their reed beds ...” Fabrizio paused a moment, as if he were
dreaming. “... But I think they’d have taken to it soon enough. Habits don’t
mean a thing. I think they get bored sometimes at Syrtes, you know ...”

I looked Fabrizio right in the eyes, suddenly, and I let the harsh accents
of provocation fill my voice. “Have you ever thought much about ... the
Other Side?”
Fabrizio stopped walking, astonished, but less sensitive, I think, to my
question than to the bitterness in the tone that scorched my lips. “No, I
never think about that. I didn’t have anything particular in mind, you know.
It was a schoolboy prank. The war with Farghestan doesn’t make my blood
boil, to tell you the truth. You’ve got to admit it’s pretty stale by now.
They’re savages, all right, but at least they leave us in peace. Of course I’m
as ready as the next man to give them what they deserve, if they come back.
What a day, Aldo! ... Can you imagine the old Redoubtable spitting fire
across the lagoons? That’s a sight not to be missed—like St. Jude fireworks!
Too bad it’s only for bedtime stories in Orsenna. At least it would be a
distraction around here.”
“You make it easy for yourself.”
“I don’t think about it so much as you do, Aldo—that’s all. What’s past is
past. Do you want to know something? Farghestan is like the bogeyman: all
it’s good for now is to scare little children.”
“There’s more to it than that.”
Fabrizio pretended to put his hands over his ears. “There you go with
your conspiracy theories. I know you spend all your time thinking about it,
no need to tell me.”
“I think about it now and then.”
“But you don’t think about it the way I do, when it’s happening.”
“What do you mean?”
“I mean, I think about it the way I think about the Other Side ... it’s like
any coast, like any coast anywhere. You make a vice out of it, Aldo. You
think about it for your own sake: you need to think about it. You’d invent it,
if you had to. You invent the bogeyman to scare yourself.” Fabrizio put his
hand like a megaphone around his mouth and with a grotesque gesture
turned toward the side of the road, whispering.

“What’s got into you?”
“I’m telling the great secret to the reeds, like Midas: Aldo’s invented
Farghestan! Aldo’s invented Far-ghes-tan!”
“Enough of your foolishness.”
“I didn’t mean to make you mad. After all, everyone’s odd about
something. And you’re not the only one around here who’s odd about that.”
“I’m not?”
Fabrizio turned serious again. “Marino thinks about it too. It must be
catching. He thinks about it more than you do, maybe.”
“What makes you say that?”
“I’m going to tell you. I’ve noticed something funny. One afternoon I had
nothing much to do, and I went to the library for something to read about
Farghestan. I couldn’t find a single book. Not one. And there are any
number in the catalogue. They’re not on the shelves. Giovanni told me
where they are. All of them are in Marino’s room.”
“So what?” Without even realizing it, my voice had assumed a very
unpleasant tone. Against Fabrizio, I was suddenly defending an ally.
“So what? So nothing, if that’s how you’re going to take it ... I thought
you’d be interested. No one wants to take your Farghestan away from you,
you know,” he added, exasperated.
But I didn’t care about Fabrizio’s mood. I kept hearing Marino’s harsh
voice, that tone of voice so unfamiliar to me, saying: “You’re a brainless
fool, incapable of understanding the meaning of your actions ...”
The cemetery came in sight, on a hill overlooking the sea, a crude square
of low walls swept by the sea winds and filled with the chatter of the reeds.
The harsh oblongs of the stones, the treeless paths, the meticulous
maintenance of this official necropolis added a final touch of melancholy
that even the desert’s isolated graves do not possess. There was something
sickening about the sight of this well-tended vacuum, where the very idea
of death inspired something too vivid; you felt that three centuries of

anonymous chores had relayed each other here, absorbed in their turn by the
anonymity of the sands, in order to level a site of utter effacement.
They were rotting away at attention, the defenders of Orsenna. Just as I
might have seen, emerging from its swamp, the patiently buttressed forest
of pilings which propped up the city, here lay before my eyes, in isometric
perspective, three centuries of the fatherland’s foundations. The bodies
devoured by sand, one on top of the next in strict perpendicularity, drove
into the earth, with repeated blows, their grove of vertical pillars. The city’s
sinister genius, even in these extreme outposts, showed in the patient
mutilation which, out of so many new and naively surrendered lives, by a
merciless pruning, had formed this careful frame, this funereal housing.
Generation after generation had consumed their lives mortising an exact
pigeonhole, fitting themselves to the measurements of the anticipatory pit
being deepened for them in the sand. The voracious city maintained itself
on the earth’s surface at the dizzying summit of a garden of monsters, a
foundation of skeletons devoured alive. It existed, it endured, a thin
membrane alive but utterly pathological—victim of a giant necrosis, using
every last drop of its humors to secrete more bone, thrusting underground in
a nightmare verticality the collective carcass which the geological eras
spread flat.
And while Fabrizio and I were absentmindedly strolling along these
dreary paths, a little troop of armed men had silently gathered at the
cemetery gate: a landing crew from the Redoubtable, and a squad of farm
workers, recognizable by their clumsy gestures and the wisps of straw still
clinging to their tunics. A sharp command rang out, the troop presented
arms, and Marino dismounted in front of the grille.
We saluted him as we entered. Clumsy and slow in his great boots, his
expression that of a farmer in his Sunday best, the captain had pinned to his
gray tunic the Medal of Valor, a distinction rarely awarded by the Signory.
He led us stiffly toward the far end of the cemetery. Between freshly
plastered patches, an ancient tablet still presented the arms and date of
office of the Podesta who had erected it; the city’s sole and arrogant sign

glittered on that bare wall, drawing the eye like a target—the arms of
Orsenna and the strange device in which its ageless genius was petrified: In
sanguine vivo et mortuorum consilio supersum. The troops lined up in front
of the wall, two gray rows which the banner of Saint Jude spattered with
red; the oldest boatswain presented Marino with a wreath of myrtles and
laurels from Syrtes; the captain, bending down with a great effort, placed
the wreath at the foot of the monument, and straightening up again,
removed his visored cap. There was a moment of grim silence. In that
stillness, only the tuft of his gray hairs rumpled by the sea wind stirred,
vaguely animate. At the base of the monument, I suddenly noticed, during
that hypnotic silence, a long dirty streak which stained the stone and ran
down to meet a spongy layer of blackened leaves. Year after year the faded
wreaths slid down to this absorbent cushion, evoking a gentle, rotting
continuity—a recognizable emblem still. This well-supplied humus
delighted the august nostrils: even as a symbol, Orsenna continued to
fabricate cemetery ground.
It was at this moment, with all the brutal violence of a squall, that the
trumpets blared: an old anthem of Orsenna, a tune from heroic days when
the stiff brocades filed past, the barbaric tiaras, hieratic robes over marble
steps, the wingbeats of triumphal flames, red evenings filled with galleys
trailing their canvas on the sea—a splendid and noble fanfare, like the
gradual unfolding of long swags, one after the other, of some interminable
drapery through which rippled all the impalpable irridescence of the east.
Bolts of the voluntary rained down on the cemetery. Long, short, long, the
notes pursued one another in a superhuman summons, one hot red flow of
joy, stifling as a clot of blood. Then at last they ceased, and the torches were
lit once again. Nothing had moved. Syrtes stretched away to the limits of
the horizon, gray and dim. The wreath was still hanging on its hook.
Marino’s cap circled between his clumsy fingers. Around the tubes of their
instruments, before returning them to their cases, the trumpeters rolled
coverings stamped with Orsenna’s arms, as if they were folding up an
illegible parchment.

There was to be a formal banquet at the Admiralty, to which Marino had
diplomatically invited several of the rich farmers who constituted the chief
clientele for his available manpower. Their rustic, actually crude manners,
and the excessive cordiality Marino showed them, disgusted me: the
bargaining during dessert left my nerves raw, though it proved that Marino
administered his little troop with the most scrupulous honesty. The
reception’s pomp reached its height when he proposed to conduct his guests
on a visit through the fortress: the penniless Sun King showing his tax
collectors over Versailles would not have scandalized me more; I ordered
my horse saddled and excused myself, claiming to be taken ill. I virtually
was; the notion of those still-muddy boots tramping across the noble stones
disgusted me: I saw it as a sort of sacrilege. Fabrizio was not deceived and
managed to intercept me as I crossed the room.
“You’re not forgetting about the Aldobrandis? We’re counting on you for
tonight. The carriage leaves at six ...”
“To hell with the lot of you!” I whispered, carried away by an impulse of
rage I could no longer control. At that moment Vanessa herself seemed to
belong to the sordid crew, one of those civilians to whom Marino made
those overtures I so resented.
“I think you’re out of your mind.” Fabrizio shrugged just as he had this
morning. I rather abruptly avoided his whispered sermon and ran to the
stables—I needed to be alone.
I had a long afternoon of fine weather ahead of me, and I decided to
devote it to an often-postponed visit to the remote ruins of Sagra. Giovanni
had described this forsaken town where his hunter’s forays had occasionally
taken him, as having altogether reverted to the wild, so that you could shoot
game in weedy streets. This prospect of solitude allured me; the sun was
still high when I thrust a hunting-rifle into my saddle holster and set out.
The nearly washed-out trail which wound between the reeds and led to
the ruins crossed one of the dreariest parts of Syrtes. Hard-stemmed rushes
which were green in spring for a few weeks but dry and yellow all the rest
of the year, and which the slightest breeze rattled like knucklebones, grew

hereabouts in dense clumps, and no scythe had ever thinned out these
disinherited fields. I made my way along the narrow slit through the dry
stems, their rustling vivifying these solitudes in a sinister fashion, distracted
only now and then by a glimpse, to my left, over dull lagoons that looked
like a pewter blade edged with yellow where the even duller yellow of those
obsessive stems died out. Yet even the melancholy of that flaming sun over
a dead land failed to extinguish in me a throb of happiness; I felt in
complicity with the tendency of this country to absolute desolation. It was
both end and beginning. Beyond these realms of lugubrious reeds extended
the desert sands, ever more sterile, and—like the decor of a navigable death
—behind a sparkling mirage of mist, the peaks to which I could no longer
deny a name. Like savage peoples who recognize an active virtue in certain
orientations, I kept walking southward ever more intently: a secret
magnetism was leading me in the right direction.
Yet the sun was already beginning to move down the sky. I had ridden for
what seemed hours, and nothing on these naked plains hinted at the
proximity of the ruins whose broken silhouette I was trying to discern on
the far, flat horizon. I had been heading these last few moments toward an
isolated and tree-covered hillock overlooking the lagoon and toward which,
to my amazement, were also leading quite recent traces of a carriage which
seemed to have followed this narrow trail and to have knocked down in
passing the rushes whose broken stems I noticed everywhere. As I pondered
what it could be that had lured Marino or his lieutenants toward these
forsaken woods, I made out quite distinctly, at no distance at all, the
surprising murmur of a stream; the reeds gave way to various bushes, then
to a thick growth of trees, and all at once I found myself in the very streets
of Sagra.
Giovanni had not lied. Sagra was a baroque marvel, an improbable and
disturbing collision of nature and art. Very old underground canals, between
their disjointed stones, had ultimately managed to spew through the streets
the waters from an underground spring which they had brought from
leagues away; and slowly, with the centuries, the dead city had become a

paved jungle, a hanging garden of wild trunks, a frenzied gigantomachia of
tree and stone. Orsenna’s taste for massive and noble materials, granite and
marble, produced the singular character of lavish violence, even of
exhibitionism which this struggle everywhere assumed—the same
complacent muscle-effects displayed by a county-fair wrestler constantly
appeared here in the ostentatious resistance, in the overhangs which here
opposed a balcony to an enlacing branch, there a half-collapsed wall
suspended above the void, to the turgescent thrust of a tree trunk—until
weight was flouted altogether, and the disturbing obsession of a slowed
combustion, an earthquake snapshot, was imposed.
I rode on, astounded, through this green penumbra where the motionless
branches cast a mesh of sunlight on the sopping pavements. A heavy
moisture crept across the ground, covering the rubble with a layer of moss
that muffled every sound, letting through only the shrill tinkle of the water
trickling everywhere in swift rivulets across the stones—the same
unconcerned dripping which seeps out of masonry after a bombing or a fire.
I tied my horse to a doorjamb that had half worked loose and began
wandering through the avenues, occasionally stumbling over a thick layer
of rotten leaves. Sagra, it was obvious, had not been a city at all, little more
than a sort of trading post, a tiny checkerboard of intersecting streets beside
the lagoon. The ground floors revealing fragments of vaulted rooms in the
rear, the spacious cellars over which the paving was falling in along the
gutters, betokened warehouses and shops; a few ghosts of handsome villas
appeared, crouching in their teeming gardens as though behind a fortress of
underbrush. But the motionless gloom caught up these ordinary fragments
into a magic crystal, and a reverie was spun by the murmur of fountains that
seemed still to recall the vanished occupants to their humble tasks, to braid
into a mute garland round well and pond those profound gestures which
make the heart leap like a panic sentiment of life’s permanence. I was
suddenly filled with an anxious desire to awaken, if only for a moment, the
echoes in these streets, to shout for some living soul forgotten in this
labyrinth of silence.

But of course there was no one. The daylight was beginning to wane in
these somber alleys, and I was just deciding to leave when I thought I made
out a faint sound of waves, and almost immediately emerged, to my
surprise, on the ridge above an irregular basin of lapping water which had
once—how long ago?—been the harbor of Sagra. Huge trees encircled it,
trailing their lowest branches in the water, leaving a brighter patch only in
the middle. But half concealed under the drooping branches, an unexpected
outline united all that was left of the light in one metallic gleam: along the
ruined quay was moored what looked like a boat.
An instinctive gesture made me shrink back under cover of the trees, as if
I had felt, at that very instant, that I must not be seen, at any cost. I suddenly
recalled the fresh tracks on the path, but another memory spoke to me still
more distinctly: in that vague, still barely divined silhouette, something
reminded me of the apparition seen from the beach.
The thickets, luckily, grew thick at the basin’s edge, and I could easily
reach a more convenient observation post. The boat—a small one—which I
had some difficulty making out under its vault of foliage, suggested a
pleasure craft of one kind or another, yet sturdy and certainly capable of
taking to the open sea. Only the stern was clearly visible, and I could
rejoice in my discretion: there was no name on the sternboard nor any trace
of the nautical registration obligatory in Orsenna. My heart was suddenly
gripped, along with a hunter’s fever, by a kind of justifying pang: I had
scored against Marino. Something here was no longer within the rules.
Standing on tiptoe, I trained my eyes on the boat half revealed through
the leaves. It fascinated me—like any feverishly desired apparition—like an
elusive quarry brought within close range yet mysteriously outlined by the
gunsight. I had it at my mercy. In this jungle silence, the boat would have
seemed abandoned there, had not the shining brass and fresh paint testified
to recent maintenance. For a second, I felt on the point of yielding to a
terrible craving to leap onto the deck and enlighten myself as to what could
no longer fail to be a splendid prize, when I suddenly realized that the boat
might be guarded from shore, and I tried to stare, in the now very dim light,

through the thick underbrush along the rotting quay. Then I made out, not
far away under the trees, the shape of a tiny, half-collapsed cottage, and I
realized with an irritation depriving me of any desire to leave my hiding-
place, that a thread of smoke was rising from the ruins.
While I was pondering how to avoid this unexpected obstacle, I suddenly
heard behind me the ill-timed neighing of my horse echoing through the
woods, and almost immediately the figure of a man, rifle in hand, came out
of the house. Walking uncertainly, anxious and indecisive, he advanced as
though by reflex toward the boat which it was obviously his job to guard,
stopping occasionally to cock his head, and for a moment I could see him
more distinctly in a clearing of the underbrush. He was dressed like the
shepherds of Syrtes, but I was immediately struck by something singularly
loose and supple in his walk, and especially by the very dark, almost exotic
tinge of his face and hands. The shadows were already robbing me of the
barely glimpsed figure, blurring an almost indefinable impression, and yet
—no, this was not the product of an imagination fevered by surprise—I
could have sworn that this was someone you would not have expected to
meet in Syrtes. After a moment of motionless vigil, and with the same
supple swiftness, the man, no doubt reassured, slipped back into the ruins.
The boat was obviously well guarded, and there was nothing for me to do
but leave. As quietly as I could I slipped through the darkness until I
reached one of the phantom streets, and leading my horse by the bridle
through the tunnel of diffuse light which marked the entrance to the ruins, I
left seductive Sagra without incident.
I ran no risk of losing my way in this rather pallid night, and gave my
horse its head through the trench between the reeds which would lead it
straight as a rail to the Admiralty. There was an evident link between the
presence of this boat and the carriage tracks, and the more I thought of it,
the more inclined I was to regard it as the key to those clandestine visits to
and from Maremma. The likelihood of smuggling occurred to me, but the
looks of that pleasure-yacht could scarcely confirm such suspicions. Its
presence in Sagra suggested a hundred banal interpretations that were just

as plausible, but I felt an instinctive reluctance to admit any of them; my
suppositions were already falling into place of their own accord, projected
in that obsessive direction where everything outside the context of daily life
was already gravitating for me.
I could no longer conceal from myself the excessive importance which
anything related to Farghestan, however remotely, was beginning to
assume. In my idle life at the Admiralty, that country had initially been the
object of a vague reverie—against the lure of the void, I had sought a prop
within reach of my hand. Orsenna’s uneasy sleep, too vulnerable to the
assault of obsessive memories, like that of an old man ill-defended against a
long memory, had warranted my venturesome dreams, and it was
significant that I had instinctively treated these dreams as dreams and
Farghestan as an accommodating figure which I exhumed from the silence
of the map room in order to immerse myself within it whenever I chose.
Amid this harmless somnambulism, my morning conversation with Fabrizio
had suddenly opened my eyes: certain all-too-reassuring mists had been
dissipated. In front of me was a coast where ships could land, a country
where other men could imagine and remember.
It was in this new perspective that I was led to consider a boat which
seemed to take such liberties with nautical rulings, and this is what caused
me instinctively to avoid sharing my discovery with Marino. As for my
conduct in other respects, I felt in no hurry to reach any specific decision
now. Since the previous day, I had had the sense of being in contact with a
chain of events which had taken me in tow. My discovery of Sagra was a
link in this chain, and while urging my horse toward the Admiralty,
magnetized by the presentiment of an immediate future rich in surprises, I
pondered once again the appeal Vanessa had sent me. I began to regret my
impulsive mood; suddenly I spurred my horse to a gallop, in hopes that
perhaps the carriage had been delayed, and it was with great impatience that
I came out of the roadway through the lagoons and found myself alone on
the sand barrens, the Admiralty looming up before me already plunged into
darkness.

OceanofPDF.com

5
A Visit
I was exasperated, and for the first time the Admiralty’s solitude seemed
oppressive to me. A heavy mist had accompanied the darkness across the
lagoons: dampness streamed over the bare walls, and the glow of my
lantern, as I crossed the barrens, produced the same unreal halo which, I
remembered, had aureoled Marino. I felt tense, anxious, suddenly rejected
like a punished child, locked in his dark room, who longs for the party’s
light and warmth. Suddenly I was struck by all the disorienting possibilities
of the notion that Vanessa and Marino should know each other. As on every
occasion that two beings linked to disparate episodes of our life make
contact with each other independently of ourselves, a suspicion of
complicity began to dim the lights of that distant festivity. In the theatrical
setting which I had conceived for it, and which Vanessa’s anticipated
appearance had just filled with sudden tension, a scene fraught with
significance was being acted out by my reverie, a scene which left me with
the disturbing impression that in some way my fate was being decided.
These anxious presentiments intensified the tedium of a very glum
evening. For a long time I paced my room. Benumbed as I became by this
mechanical shuffle, the place ultimately grew strange, producing, without
my being able to discover why, that faint uneasiness of a familiar space in
which some piece of furniture—but which one?—has been shifted.
Suddenly I realized that the maps of Sagra, brought here this afternoon and
covering the desk in disorder, had attracted my gaze each time I passed—or
rather I realized that for an hour now I had been craving to visit the map
room.
The body of the fortress rose up before me across the barrens, even more
daunting in the almost complete darkness of the illusion it gave of casting a
shadow, of communicating to this somnolent camp the faint and just-

perceptible pulsation of a heart of darkness, ponderously throbbing behind
the night. Protected by this enormous screen against the sea winds whistling
in the crenellations, I walked into the center of a heavy, sealed immobility.
That warm, wet night, all too gentle now, added to the confinement of these
walls the melancholy of a yawning jail: the dampness chilled the corridors
like the walls of a cave. Guided by the swaying glow my lantern sent down
these tunnels, I was struck as never before by the extraordinarily
inhospitable character of the place. Its silence was the sign of an arrogant
hostility. Something threatening seemed to take ambush behind this
contrived shadow, within this clump of arteries knotted round a black heart.
The faint light of my lantern on the walls of the map room produced,
almost materially, the faint shudder of waking whose tense vibration I had
felt in every nerve during my first visit. Like the frozen cry of cave
sculptures suddenly released from their centuries of clay by the thaw of a
lantern, the panoplies of gleaming maps came alive in the darkness, bright
patches restoring the network of a magical fresco by all the devices of
patience and of sleep. Because of the late hour and the fatigue of my
afternoon’s expedition, it suddenly seemed that the very energy draining
from my dissociated mind was reinforcing these vague outlines and—
obscuring their ordinary meaning—gently revealing at the same time their
hieroglyphic sorcery, evading one by one the resistances conjured up
against an enigmatic command. Gradually I slipped into a lethargy menaced
by nightmares and, still half conscious, I heard a clock in the sleeping
fortress suddenly chime ten.
The discomfort I felt was difficult to throw off. As I emerged from this
stupefaction, I seemed to find the room inexplicably altered. In a spasm of
fear, under my now wide-awake gaze, the walls continued to shift a little, as
if the dream were reluctant to abandon this ill-defended space. From the
coolness round my shoulders, I could tell that there was still a draft in the
room, and I suddenly realized that the dancing shadows were swaying on
the walls in time to the flame of my lantern, and that the door behind me
had been silently opened several seconds before.

I whirled around and shuddered as my cheek brushed against a woman’s
dress. A light, musical laugh rang out in the darkness, dragging me back
into the sea of sleep, rolling me in a final comber of dreams. I clutched at
the gown and raised my eyes toward the face drowned in shadow. Vanessa
was before me.
“Hardly overdoing security measures around the Admiralty—I’ll report
as much to the captain. And this is why you’ve abandoned your best
friend,” she added, leaning inquisitively over the desk.
Already she was sitting on the arm of my chair, swinging one leg and
unfolding the maps quite at leisure, as one might idly push open a country
neighbor’s door. Instantly I recognized that inimitable way she had of
plunging into a subject, the ease with which she could suddenly pitch her
tent in a gale. “What about your guests? ... How did you get here?” I
stammered uncertainly. Deprived in this fashion of any sort of preamble, I
felt as if I had been caught, somehow, with my hand in the till.
“My guests are very well, thank you. They’re doubtless drinking to my
health in Maremma at this very moment.”
“But ... Vanessa?”
“At least he remembers how to say it ... He hasn’t forgotten everything.”
The light laugh rang out again, suddenly preposterous in this echoing room
—like a stage laugh behind extinguished footlights. Vanessa lay her hand
on my forehead and looked at me steadily, solemnly. “What a child you are
still,” she added, with an almost tender inflection. “Enjoying yourself
here?” She peered round the dim room. “... Marino says they can’t tear you
away from the Admiralty. Is that so?” She was gradually securing herself
now, to my eyes blurred by amazement, with the perfect fixity, the calm of a
candle flame rising straight up in the still air. Against the map room’s dusty
litter, the pale, even tint of her arms and throat suggested some
extraordinarily precious, radiant substance, like a white gown in a garden
by night.
“It’s true, I don’t get away much. And I do enjoy myself here ...”

“Not so amusing as the Selvaggi gardens ... But I suppose it has its
charm.” Her gaze, accustomed now to the darkness, suddenly grew fixed.
She raised the lantern: the seething chaos of maps emerged from the
shadows. Her face froze with an intense, almost childish curiosity. “Is that
why you come here—to look at these maps?”
“Is this a cross-examination?”
“Only a compliment to you. I can’t imagine more decorative
surroundings.”
The lantern’s beam rested on an old map embellished with strange,
looping letters. Vanessa’s voice suddenly took on an accent of direct
provocation. “I have the same one in my room at Maremma. You’ll see it
there?”
“What are you doing in Maremma?”
“Syrtes is becoming very fashionable in Orsenna. We’ve always had a
palace there—it’s falling to pieces. I was bored, so I took it into my head to
put it back together. You seem to be the only man here not to realize what
I’ve been doing. And besides, one meets some very pleasant sorts here—
your friend Fabrizio, for example ...” Vanessa’s face grew tense, as if she
were listening for a stone that had been dropped down a well. “... Captain
Marino.” The name stirred something in me, and reawakened my regrets at
having missed the party.
“Captain Marino is not exactly what I’d call a pleasant sort.”
“You’re mistaken, Aldo. And I can tell you one thing: he thinks the world
of you.”
“Delighted he’s chosen you to transmit his approval.”
Vanessa ignored my interruption. “He can’t praise your zeal enough—
only he thinks you’re a little over-imaginative, a little ... quixotic.” She
stared into my eyes with a certain insistence. “I reminded him how young
you are, and I pointed out that one must never complain of high spirits in
the young—I told him you would settle down ...” The staring eyes in the

mocking face questioned me even more intensely than this banter
suggested. “And you see what serious conversations we have.”
“What else do you talk about?”
“We have many interesting subjects in common.”
“All Marino cares about is the service.”
“Which is no reason for us to limit our conversations.”
Vanessa had made her point, and I felt myself turning crimson with rage.
“Fine. If you’re so well informed about the service, you’ll realize that there
are certain duties, as well. I’m sure you realize how sorry I am not to have
been able to give you this evening.”
“What an elegant dismissal! Naive of me to presume you’d enjoy a visit
from me. It never occurred to me you’d have so much work on your hands.
I’ll complain to Marino—he ought to be ashamed of wasting your nights in
this jail! I’ll tell him he’s turning you into a real Cinderella.”
Her laughter was a direct provocation. “I work when I like, and where I
like ...”
Vanessa’s taunt became an uncontrollable giggle. That generous laughter
of hers, a rain of tender gaiety, pricked the bubble of my mood and led me
back to the Selvaggi gardens. She shone the lantern, still shaken by her
giggles, into my eyes, and I felt on my forehead the rousing contact, the
melting warmth of her familiar fingers mussing my hair. “There. That’s
better. You know, you’re quite delectable when you’re sulking. Really
adorable, Aldo.” Her breathless voice broke on an inflection that made the
blood tingle in my hands and lips. The tiny dispute had restored our
intimacy. I seized the hand that was lingering in my hair and the lantern fell,
leaving us in darkness. I thrust my face into that warm palm and kissed it
over and over. Vanessa pressed it gently against my lips in the darkness.
Suddenly she pulled back, as though waking from a dream, and turned
away. “How did you find the ruins of Sagra?”
“The ruins of Sagra? ... Really, Vanessa, you must have second sight. I
was just thinking how much they would interest you. Really ...”

Vanessa stood up, drew her cloak around her, and made a point of
meeting my eyes. “If you love me at all, Aldo, you’ll keep your impressions
to yourself.” The sharp tone which contradicted her muffled voice cut short
any comment, and I too stood up, hesitating. Vanessa fastened her furs and
the white patch of her gown vanished, relegating her once again to the
room’s darkness. “I’m taking you back with me, of course.”
“All the way to Maremma—this late?” But I was already giving in. I
didn’t want to leave her.
“Don’t be a child. I promised I’d bring you back. You don’t want to make
me break my promise ... I’d be compromised,” she added with a sly smile.
“Besides, I want you to see my party. It’s all arranged. I was giving it for
you.”
I heard rising in her voice that childlike exaltation I knew so well. I was
rediscovering Vanessa. On the delicate flesh of that countenance, one saw
emotions and ideas not so much forming as being born. Vanessa’s desire
sparkled in her eyes with a sudden brilliance, like stars rising out of the sea.
“Let’s go, then—never let it be said that I stood in the way of a spoiled
child.”
Much more than the prospect of the party, it was the thought of this
solitary expedition with Vanessa that had persuaded me. Vanessa drove. I
had put my arm around her, and in the warmth of her furs, I felt the consent
of her gentle, yielding weight. Now and then we skirted one of those huge
fortified farms somnolent in the warmth of the Syrtes night; at the edge of
the sandy road, gray walls shimmered an instant in front of the carriage;
deceived by the unaccustomed light of our headlamps, cocks occasionally
crowed. The glare paralyzed any number of clay-colored creatures on the
lumpy road, setting the coruscation of jewels in their eyes. Vanessa was
carrying me off, through the balmy night. In her, I was coming to myself: I
felt her beside me like the deeper bed which flood waters seek, like the
wind on one’s forehead as one courses down steep hills, eyes closed, in a
total submission to our course at breakneck speed. I “took” Vanessa amid
this wilderness, as one takes a road one guesses leads to the sea.

A night milky with fog and moonlight overhung the lagoons when we
reached Maremma, shimmering with diffuse light from the silvery plane of
the calm waters. The sense of unreality penetrating this white night
persisted: Maremma mingled with its night seemed to me a nebula of a city,
nothing but vague clots of mist which the jolting of the carriage might have
produced as we passed, dissolving immediately afterwards. Suddenly the
carriage stopped; I felt beneath my feet the slippery cobbles and on my face
the raw air which scours the sleep-moist skin of a traveller tumbled out of
his warm nest. A quay in front of us dropped straight down to the black
water. Vanessa, without turning back, walked straight to the edge. I watched
her, silent with amazement on the empty quay, as one might watch some
passerby in the mist climbing up the parapet of a bridge. Then she turned,
surprised to discover she was alone, saw me, and again burst out laughing.
A boat was waiting for us at the quay.
As I roused myself out of my stupor, I suddenly remembered Maremma’s
ironic and indulgent nickname: the Venice of Syrtes. The image I had often
recognized in the documents in the map room recurred to me: a hand with
tapering fingers that thrust out into the lagoon, representing the muddy,
uncertain delta of one of the few riverbeds that actually reach the sea in
Syrtes. At a period when Farghian invasions made land an uncertain haven,
colonists along the coast had taken refuge among these low mudbanks—
once the stream’s course had been deflected to keep the lagoon from silting
up, a canal had cut off the delta on the land side—Maremma, like Venice,
had launched itself, had slipped its moorings; perched on its trembling flats,
the city had become a floating island, an enchanted hand submissive to
effluvia from beyond the sea. A brief splendor had ennobled the town
during the period of the Peace of Syrtes: its sailors and colonists had
swarmed all over the coast, draining seaward its wool and its fruit from
remote oases and bearing in their galleys the gold and uncut gems of
Farghestan. Then war had come, and life had withdrawn from these
channels; today Maremma was a dead city, a closed hand clutching its
memories, a wrinkled and leprous hand hummocky with the crusts and

pustules of its ruined warehouses and its squares invaded by thistles and
crabgrass.
In a sort of reverie, I watched this flotsam pass before us, like the
afterbirth of a great city flung upon the coast by some sort of deluge. From
the abandoned canals rose a stench of fever; the viscous water clung to the
blades of the oars. Over a crumbling patch of wall, one skimpy tree leaned
toward the dead waters mirroring these ruins. High walls which seemed to
be the outworks of monasteries raised occasional islets of hostile
fortifications, like the last bastions to be brought down by some disaster.
The faint liquid sound of the oars and the lunar mist deepened the pestilent
silence, and then I noticed that the faintly phosphorescent surface of the
canal was continually streaked with tiny triangles: with the minor gurgles,
the all-too-intimate noises that rise out of a flooded ditch, water rats were
colonizing this necropolis.
I rested my hand on top of Vanessa’s where it lay on the gunwale. From
her silence I had guessed that she too was absorbed in the contemplation of
this cemetery of stagnation, this poignant surrender of a city to its supreme
dissolution. This silence, like love’s, betrayed her: Vanessa was welcoming
me to her domain. I remembered the Selvaggi gardens, and I knew what
lure drew her toward this den of rotting mud. Maremma was Orsenna’s
senescence, the final vision which coagulated the city’s heart, the
abominable manifestation of its rotten blood and the obscene froth of a last
death-rattle. As a warrior imagines an enemy already lying on his bier, a
murderous enchantment inveigled Vanessa to hover over this corpse. Its
stench was a pledge. And with this figurehead beside me to show me the
way, I realized that here on these forsaken shores Vanessa had joined, at
last, her chosen vision.
Cut off from the city by waste stretches where one divined the traces of
its former gardens, the Aldobrandi palace loomed up at the tip of one of the
fingers of the open hand, and its isolation on the right of the passage
through the lagoons and at the end of the widened canal seemed to me a
singular figuration of the temper of the easily offended race which had built

the place in its own image. This pleasure dome, cast like a sneer upon the
fever-ridden waters, still recalled something of the stronghold, the fortress.
Separated from the tongue of sand by a narrow inlet crossed by a wooden
bridge, it hovered over the canal like a long, low jetty crouching over the
water, from the far end rising one of those slender, very tall square
watchtowers which characterize in Orsenna the noble palaces of the great
period. Under the faint moonlight which blurred every detail, the harsh and
military contours hinted at the powerful foundations, the strength and
massiveness of a rocky bastion rooted like a tusk in these shifting mud-flats.
While the lower arcades shed across the water, like the mouth of an oven,
streaks of harsh light, the structure’s upper gallery, sound asleep beneath its
lunar terrace, stretched like a blind fillet from end to end, leaving the
dominant impression of a hostile reserve, a secret respiration in the
darkness.
Clearly the festivities had long since passed their peak: the fever was
falling. In the voices which rose from scattered groups I could hear that
dying fall, that detached tone of a return to calm which strikes the ear in the
still-animated street conversations after an accident has just occurred. I
greeted Marino with a hint of embarrassment and avoided answering his
mischievous glance. The captain was in a very good mood, and I assumed
that the morning’s transactions had been profitable. I was surprised, though,
as by an excessive familiarity, to feel him seize my arm, and as we strolled
among the groups, I thought I noticed that he was trying to overhear the
remarks being exchanged around us. I saw on his face once again that same
expression of intense concern I had already noticed on the bridge of the
Redoubtable when he was seeking the passage through the lagoons, and I
suddenly realized he was more preoccupied than he had appeared.
“Do you know who these people are?” he suddenly asked in a very
serious tone of voice, bringing us both to a halt and pointing with a vague
gesture to the rooms that opened in all directions around us.
Struck by this uneasy tone so anomalous in Marino, I began examining
more carefully the guests around us. I had noticed in passing a gleam of

sudden attention in some eyes, and occasionally a friendly gesture I had
responded to only vaguely, troubled as I was by an impression of a still
indefinable déjà vu. Certain memories were now coming back to me more
clearly. There were people here whom I had almost certainly met at my
father’s house, before my mother’s death had put an end to his worldly life,
and I was able to whisper in Marino’s ear several of Orsenna’s great names
—names whose mere mention in our city’s salons would have sufficed to
rank a party. Vanessa had not lied when she assured me that Syrtes was
becoming fashionable in Orsenna. Yet perhaps the distinction of the party
tonight was less of fashion than a bizarre whim, and the impression given
by this considerable crowd in no way confirmed the guarantee a few
indisputable names seemed to bestow. Rather than the glitter of a
fashionable gathering, these over-eager glances, apparently absorbed in a
common obsession, evoked the spontaneous relationships, the intimate
freemasonry of resorts people visit to cure some serious illness. I was no
longer surprised that Marino’s health seemed excessive in this crowd.
Moreover I had now realized that mingling among the guests—and with
what familiarity!—were people one never acknowledged in Orsenna.
“The Aldobrandis have always entertained peculiar guests. It looks as if
they’ve come to Maremma to take the fevers.”
“Yes, the air is unhealthy here. I was wrong to leave the Admiralty
tonight. Let’s go to the buffet.” I followed Marino, and we raised our
champagne glasses in silence. His preoccupied expression persisted. “I
think I’ll be leaving, Aldo. The princess has promised to see that you get
back later—I’m not worried about that. You’re quite at home here ...” he
added, half closing his eyes.
“And Fabrizio?”
“The wretch is already waiting for me in the carriage ...” Marino made a
deploring gesture toward the buffet. “He’s made himself sick ... I’ll leave
you here to defend the honor of the fleet,” he added, with a pathetic
grimace. I laughed aloud. Marino’s clumsy kindness returned repentantly to

our great argument, offering me a timid token. All of the man was in the
gesture, and I felt once again how fond of him I was.
“Vanessa will be sorry. You know, she talked a lot about you—she told
me you’ve been having long conversations.”
Marino coughed and blushed with a naïveté which went straight to my
heart. “A remarkable woman, Aldo. Very, very remarkable.”
I felt slightly stung. “Lucky you were able to appreciate her so ... readily.
Vanessa’s not an easy character to get to know.”
“That’s not quite what I mean.” Marino’s voice sounded calm and even.
“... She hates me. Well, it’s time I was leaving,” he continued, evidently
eager to bring our exchange to an end. “See you tomorrow, Aldo. Enjoy the
rest of the party.” He hesitated an instant. “And watch out for the morning
mists—that’s how you catch a fever.”
I had done nothing to deter this abrupt departure. Marino was releasing
me from an exasperating scrutiny. I felt renewed, my shoulders lightened as
if by a sudden frivolity, like a girl at her first ball when her mother, having
gallantly resisted sleep, finally decides to leave the party. I knew Vanessa
would not fail to come and find me soon enough, but there was no hurry,
and I wanted to make closer contact with some of these equivocal summer
people of Maremma. I headed toward a room from which gusts of music
emerged, and which lay along the sea front. I was counting on the brief
distraction of music to yield up these faces to me: here, more than anywhere
else, I would have the opportunity of seeing without being seen.
Vanessa’s party did not bely her reputation for sumptuous prodigality.
The bay windows of the arcades overlooking the lagoon had all been
thrown open: the intoxicating smell of the stagnant waters mingled like a
tide with the scent of huge bunches of flowers, giving them that same
funereal and moist opacity which chills our flesh beside a deathbed.
Through the dark bays, one glimpsed a swarm of boats carrying flowers and
lights on the lagoon below. The lighting, filtered by close-packed clusters of
drooping leaves, made the room float in the greenish, vitreous penumbra of
a mossy grotto, a kind of habitable pond which made every gesture sticky,

trailing from each sparkling wrist the silvery drops of a perceptible wake,
and where the music being played sustained a vibration of the almost liquid
air, creating a zone of deeper, more intimate disturbance. I avoided making
an instinctive gesture of recoil—as if I had lifted the curtain on a spectacle
much too private. There were not many people in this room, but I was
struck by something singular in the attitude and the disposition of the
groups which, rather than a concert hall, suggested an opium den or some
other chamber of clandestine ceremonies, and which advised me to return
to the ranks as soon as possible. I made for a sofa in the gloom, and
hurriedly sat down, holding my breath in spite of myself.
The heavy, somber music, the vague lighting, and the absorbing perfumes
were disconcerting me. It seemed that I was very slowly coming to my
senses, as if I had fallen through a trap door into this room and was
recovering them only one by one, at first led only by the thread of this
intoxicating sound, then dilated into the explosion of these feverish scents. I
was beginning to see a little now, and once again I was struck by the
liberties of attitude and gesture taken by the couples lured here, as might
have been expected, by the promise of a relative isolation. A subtle
atmosphere of provocation, an insidious sensual magnetism suddenly
seemed to become incandescent, here exposing the curve of a neck too
readily offered, there a glance too heavy, the swollen gleam of a mouth
opening to half-darkness. Certain faint movements were being made here,
scarcely perceptible, but suddenly suggestive to the eye—at the same depth,
one might have said, as the gestures of a sleeper. Yet in all this sea-cave
wakening, I suddenly felt, like a cold breath on the back of my neck, a more
intense awareness, a closer presence. I glanced behind me. Almost close
enough to touch there appeared, so abruptly had I come up against it, as
against a door, the face of a young woman turned toward mine. And I
realized from the naked possession they took of mine, in a sovereign
heedlessness of scandal, that there could be no question of avoiding her
eyes.

Everything that can rise from the life of the depths which is most hidden,
most nocturnal, was turned toward me in those pupils. These eyes did not
blink, or shine, or even attempt to focus—rather, upon meeting them, their
soft, even moisture suggested a scallop shell gaping wide upon darkness—
they simply opened there, floating upon a strange, lunar rock among the
coils of algae. In the confusion of hair like a sheaf of ripe wheat, the
intensity of this calm gaze opened like a starry sky. The mouth, too, lived as
though under one’s fingers, producing a retractile shudder, naked as the tiny
crater of some marine jelly. Suddenly it grew very cold. As the coils of a
writhing serpent are discovered in a stupor to belong to one and the same
creature, around this medusa-head there appeared, in successive glances, a
strange conformation. The head was fastened to the hollow of a shoulder,
covered by some dark material. Two arms formed a stole, a collar of
panting comfort which thrust as if into a full trough in the depths of her
bosom. This being disengaged itself—herself?—from the depths as if under
enormous pressure, rising fixedly into its sky of serenity like a full moon
through the branches.
Though I made every effort to take one drink after another, letting myself
be shifted by the crowd toward the gayest points of the party, it was only
gradually that I came to myself. As though I had been blinded by too
powerful a sun, dark specks floated before my eyes against the scintillation
of the lights. Unlikely as might appear, on such an evening, the open
celebration of this very intimate amorous liturgy, I did not feel at all
scandalized. The eyes which had stared into mine were not those of a judge.
They bore witness. When I tried to identify the strange weight which had
suddenly fastened me to them, an obsessive image recurred: that of those
natural wells lying open on the surface of the earth, down which the ear
vainly seeks to catch the echo of a pebble’s fall. Meeting this sickening
void, one stumbled a moment, the mind elsewhere, but as if nothing had
occurred, one’s path was now and forever altered. It was hopeless to resume
one’s way. Those eyes moved beside me, and the faint exhalation of their
abyss extinguished the lights; they made the party sway a little against the
background of a nightmare.

Suddenly it seemed to me that while I was circulating among the various
groups, thinking about the curious guests Vanessa had gathered, one of
those faces to which I had occasionally tried to attach a name was appearing
more frequently than the rest. A dry, glabrous face whose eyes, as though
veiled by a leucoma, nonetheless kept a sharper watch for that very reason
—a face that was not unknown to me and whose insistent reappearance
seemed to tug my sleeve. Vaguely intrigued, I leaned a moment against a
pilaster, waiting as if between two soundings, as the whirling crowd passed
by, for its reappearance. A voice murmured right in my ear, clear but low
and deliberately modulated, already set in the register of an intimate
dialogue. The face was before me. “A splendid party, don’t you think, my
dear Observer ... May I take advantage of my friendship with your father to
remind you of my name?” the voice went on, reading the surprise on my
face without being at all disconcerted, smiling slightly. “Giulio Belsenza ...
I used to know you when you were no more than a boy ...” The voice
assumed an inflection of complicity. “... And without trying to confuse the
Service with pleasure, it occurred to me that, this evening at least, our
duties might bring us closer together.”
I suddenly remembered that name. Instructions I had received upon
departure had designated him as the secret agent the Signory maintained at
Maremma. My reply was brief, and I tried to make it as little professional as
possible. Something in that countenance reminded me of a police spy, and I
didn’t like hearing such things in Vanessa’s house.
“... Yes indeed,” the voice continued, without seeming to take offence,
“you’ll forgive me for having decided to eschew appearances, since I have
the opportunity of meeting someone who concerns the Signory so closely ...
I’m quite isolated at Maremma—there are no orders for me here—and
without information ...” His voice had emphasized a bitter parenthesis.
Suddenly he raised his eyes to meet mine with a greedy expression. “There
are these rumors ...”
In the sudden fixity of his gaze, an anxious intensity belied the smile. I
immediately stopped being vague. “No doubt I’m less well informed than

you suppose ...”
“No one knows anything at the Admiralty? Well, at least that’s
reassuring.” The smile grew more insistently ironic. I suddenly felt
annoyed.
“No, I must say I don’t see ... I have virtually nothing to do here myself,”
I added disdainfully, “and I try not to concern myself with gossip.”
“People always say so many things in Maremma—perhaps they say too
many.”
“About the Admiralty?”
“About Farghestan.” The voice had hefted, as if in a hand, a word heavier
than the others. I felt a thrill, a wave running through my whole body, like a
fisherman who sees his cork yanked into a calm pool and then becoming the
very image of detachment.
“Really? There seems to be a real craving for disinterested speculation
hereabouts. Is there much talk of the moon, as well?”
Belsenza looked at me with a sly expression. “There might be, as a
matter of fact. There’s no lack of astrologists with the best intentions. That’s
what’s so strange about the thing: it’s as impossible to discover the origin of
these rumors as it is to put a stop to them. Maremma, my dear Observer, is
not a very healthy town, as you may realize ... I am paid a salary to know as
much” (paid badly, the voice said quite distinctly, and now I noticed the
yellowish tinge of his face, the features not so much ascetic as drawn, the
abject expression: a colonial who isn’t taking care of himself, I suddenly
thought—in a few years, Belsenza would be a pathetic wretch) “and I’m
beginning to think these little bouts of fever don’t all come from the
marshes.”
“Very troublesome, I should say. But you’d be doing me a favor by
bringing me up to date.”
Belsenza’s eyes went vague and he clasped his hands like a man
attempting to muster his fleeting impressions—like the dreamer who, in
order to tell his dream, lets himself drift into a mimicry of the sleeper. “It

was wrong of me to speak of rumors, and right to speak of fevers. In a
sense, it’s less than nothing. The fever by itself is nothing, it’s merely a sign
... Don’t think me delirious—along with all these others ... I live here, you
see, and it’s difficult to make oneself understood. I myself understand, I
understand all the better for seeing you. Because I wanted to speak to you
this evening. You’re not from Maremma, and talking to you—whether you
believe me or not—is like opening the window of a sickroom. No one
breathes properly in Maremma—we need air—that’s the word for it: we’re
looking for a breath of air.”
“People seem to come here a good deal, for a sickroom.”
Belsenza’s eloquent features called me to witness: “Pure extravagance,
my dear Observer. Everyone is mad in Orsenna, raving mad ... Hear me out,
please hear me out.” he interrupted himself, aware of my impatience.
“About a year ago, the thing began—that is,” he corrected himself, “I began
noticing something. Hereabouts no one had a word to say about Farghestan,
I assure you. It was as if the place had never existed. Erased from the map
... There were other problems. Life’s not easy here, and despite
appearances, no one’s very comfortable ... I’ll show you the town,” he
added, gesturing contemptuously toward the other salons, “it’s not all so
sumptuous as the Aldobrandi palace.”
“I know. There was a moon tonight.”
“Ah! Then you saw. Although by night, you know ... there’s always the
picturesque aspect that beguiles everyone. These people prefer to wander
through the town by night. But it occurs to me ...” he broke off, reassuring
me with a wave of his hand. “Nowadays people talk about the Other Side;
they’re beginning to know things.”
“The Other Side?”
“I was forgetting, you’re not from around here. Habits are contagious,
after a while. No one takes precautions any more. It’s very seldom you’ll
hear the word “Farghestan” in Maremma. Never, in fact. People say: ‘the
Other Side.’”

“Odd. From a certain point of view, you wouldn’t suspect so much
familiarity.”
“From a certain point of view, you wouldn’t suspect anything, but here
people suspect a great deal. At least, that’s what I’d like to believe. It would
be more reassuring. People might say ...”
“Just what is it they do say?” This time I was really annoyed. Belsenza
grew perfectly still, and his eyebrows drew together, as if at a difficult
question.
“My dear Observer, it was you who started it ... I like things to be black
and white myself. But as soon as I begin a report, the pen falls from my
fingers. Once you try to take matters in hand, they immediately assume a
new form. As if they were afraid of being caught, of being checked ... as if
people were afraid they couldn’t get away. Or that the rumors might stop
...” Belsenza made a face, irritated and mocking. “It all comes down to ... if
you want to bring it down ... to very little, to nothing at all. To less than
nothing. To this, more or less: there seem to have been some major changes
in Farghestan. Someone, or rather something, has taken over. And—on this
point there’s universal and energetic agreement—this someone, this
something ... this change ... bodes nothing good for Orsenna.”
“Rumors! ... Come now. That’s pure fantasy. An invention!”
Belsenza stared at me challengingly. “I’d tend to think it was, as you do
... But I can also assure you that proving it was—which would be even
better than saying so—will be of no help in making it stop.”
“You could issue an official denial.”
“I’ve thought of that ... No, believe me, it’s too late. There’s a smoldering
fire here. Anything can become fuel for it. An official denial will just feed
the rumors. It’s a question of temperature.”
“Who’s doing the talking?”
“Today, everyone. At first, it seems to me,” Belsenza lowered his voice,
“it was mostly outsiders. Of course I’m forgetting,” he went on rapidly,
“here, ‘outsiders’ are people from Orsenna. And when you ask ‘who’s doing

the talking,’ believe me, you must realize, no one actually talks. No one
talks at all. It’s more a matter of allusions, people talk by omission. It’s
what they don’t say—nothing positive. Everything remains indirect,
wrapped up in something else. Everything refers to the rumors, but nothing
gives them away. As if words, all the words spoken on a single day,
managed to create a mold—the mold of something—but the mold itself
remains empty. I’m not making myself clear. Let me use another figure.
You know the game of Hunt the Slipper? Everyone makes a circle, you all
hold the string, you don’t see anything, but hands are accomplices and the
slipper runs along the string, from hand to hand. It’s never there. Each hand
is empty, but each hand is merely a warm hollow to receive it—to have
received it. That’s the game Maremma plays all day long. And I’m not sure
it’s a game ... No, a denial would be no use at all,” Belsenza concluded
pensively. “You’d have to cut the string, but first of all you’d have to find
it.”
“Find the string?”
“Find the string the slipper hangs on ...” Belsenza smiled with a
preoccupied expression. I said nothing for a moment, and I didn’t feel like
smiling at all. This kind of talk was less incoherent to me than I should have
liked it to be.
“I understand. But even without that, sometimes you do manage to find
the slipper. Haven’t you arrested anyone?”
“No. Any more than I’ve issued a formal denial. For the same reasons.
Besides ...” Belsenza glanced cautiously around the rooms. “... I have
neither support nor credit in Orsenna, and it’s easy to end up with a nasty
business on your hands.”
I felt that my voice was trembling: “I’m in the Signory’s service,
Belsenza, just like you, and my friendships are not my first consideration.
Suppose you be a little more specific. Are you afraid that the string would
lead you here?”
“Perhaps.”
“Is that an impression or a fact?”

Belsenza’s voice rang out with an accent of frankness. “An impression.
Everything’s an impression, I’ve just told you that. Maybe I was wrong to
speak. It’s possible I’m getting a little overwrought ...”
“I don’t see too much harm in that. Maremma isn’t much of a town for ...
distractions. It might be a remedy for boredom.”
“I hope so, my dear Observer.” The voice was resuming its official and
neutral tone, and I felt that the keyhole to which I was pressing my eye was
about to be closed.
“One thing you said just now really astonished me—unless you’ve made
a miscalculation. When you were discussing the so-called coup d’état on
the Other Side, you said: someone ... or something.”
“Exactly. It’s no miscalculation. That’s one more odd thing ...” Belsenza
seemed to hesitate in front of an obstacle. “... You’re very close to seeing,
my dear Observer, how useless any denial would be. It’s as if the rumors, as
soon as they appear, were made immune to any material proof whatever.
That expression coup d’état is anything but accurate. According to the
rumors, nothing on the Other Side has happened that’s at all visible.
Nothing has changed that you could notice. It’s even been noted that
nothing has changed in the appearances—that’s why there’s something
really disturbing about these rumors. The notion—insofar as one can see
clearly enough to arrive at any such thing as a notion—the notion would be
that a kind of occult power, let’s say a secret society, whose purposes are
anything but specific but certainly exorbitant, inadmissible, has managed to
take over the country, to keep it in thrall, to rule without anything giving it
away in all the government cogs and gears ...”
“Excessively imaginative. You’re not trying to tell me that anyone here
believes such stories ... ?”
“It sounds incredible enough, I grant you, but please let me point out one
thing. I mentioned fever just now, and disease. The effects of the disease are
strange. I’ve had occasion, in Orsenna, to conduct certain investigations
concerning charlatans and quacks. And of the crudest kind. Believe me, it

was rare that they failed to number among their clientele some of the most
remarkable, the most enlightened people of the city. I could cite names ...”
I was not interested in hearing them. Again, there was an insinuation in
Belsenza’s voice which I found disagreeable. “I don’t see any major victims
around us here.”
Belsenza glanced speculatively at the groups in the room, and I suddenly
thought of Marino. “Neither do I. All the same ...” He drew closer, with a
nervous gesture. “... It so happens, my dear Observer, that I know this town
like the back of my hand. In a sense, it’s always the same ... I rub my eyes
and there’s nothing to be seen. Everything is where it always was. And yet
something’s changed. Something ...” Again his eyes went vague and
seemed to drift away. “There’s something that’s not right.”
Belsenza’s helpless manner and the anxiety that filled his voice disturbed
me. The visit to Sagra suddenly came to mind. “In any case, that’s your
business. But I can’t believe that all these rumors are born ... spontaneously.
And it’s their source that interests me. You must have wondered, surely, if
someone in Maremma wasn’t, one way or another, in relation with
Farghestan?”
Belsenza’s face became the picture of consternation, and I suddenly felt
certain I had said something stupid.
“In relation ... ? That’s hardly possible.”
My mood carried me away. “You mean it’s forbidden. That’s not the
same thing.”
A singular expression appeared on Belsenza’s face: that of a man
shocked and deeply scandalized, whom concern for appearances
nonetheless keeps from retorting. I suddenly felt he was dealing with me
like a foreigner whom, by the gestures of mute embarrassment, one tries to
spare the consciousness of a breach of decorum too subtle to explain.
“Absolutely impossible, I should say.” Belsenza coughed and met my
eyes with a frozen smile. “... You know that better than I do, my dear
Observer. Your very presence at the Admiralty would make any
interrogation in that direction a matter of insult.”

“Sorry. In that case, I no longer see the point of these confidences.”
Once again Belsenza’s tone became jocular and worldly, and I felt he was
breaking off, this time for good. Throughout the whole of this conversation
in suspicious feints, he had been the infuriating silhouette which appears in
the arena and then exasperatingly vanishes behind a shred of red cloth.
“Oh, it was merely a conversation, nothing official, I assure you. Of
course there was nothing about the Service involved. I was quite certain the
Admiralty disdained such frivolities. Now I’m convinced, and there’s no
more to be said.”
The party’s tension was waning now; the fever had fallen altogether.
Belsenza’s remarks had slid over my mind, leaving me distracted rather
than shaken, like the meaningless gesticulation of a distant hunter firing a
shot before the sound reaches you. The indistinct voices mingled, making
what sounded to me like the same endlessly resumed and interrupted noises
as the waters of the lagoon. I felt like their hostile shore. I stood in the heart
of this crowd like an intruder who has not been given the password, and
who feels each face turning toward his own an intolerable interrogation.
Belsenza’s cautious and muted voice, as if someone were lowering the
lights, had dimmed the party’s luster for me; it was time to find Vanessa.
As I left the noise of the crowd and the bright lights, the upper gallery
seemed to be sound asleep. Ahead of me, a tiled corridor vanished into the
silent gloom; through the high midnight-blue windows open onto the
lagoon, the links of moonlight reflected from the water stirred over the
vaults like a faint murmur of brightness. I leaned a moment on one of these
open sills. The night was as calm as if someone had raised a lamp. In front
of me, in a just-visible distance, the thin white line of the waves breaking
on the sandbar marked the entrance to the channel through the lagoons. The
faint oscillation of the reflections on the walls, the luminous streaks which
intersected on the surface of the water, the tense silence in the darkness of
this somnolent bridge over a deep and confused agitation, reminded me of
the night on the Redoubtable, suggesting the notion of getting under way, of
a cruise, lights out, into the darkness. The palace was keeping vigil for

Maremma in this sleepy gloom. Already far away on the road, Marino’s
carriage was moving like a tiny star through this empty night which dilated
one’s gaze. Sounds were muffled in the town, and Belsenza was returning to
his feverish rooms. I recalled, smiling, how uneasily he had indicated the
palace as the source of those obscure rumors; I thought of Vanessa’s ironic
promise at the Admiralty, and I pushed open her door with a nervous finger.
Her apartment filled the entire width of the palace wing facing the sea. It
was an enormous room which open windows on three sides filled with the
faint rustle of the lagoon below. A single corner emerged from the dim
light, but I was struck as I came in, despite the Oriental glow of the carpets
and the richness of the marble facings, by a particular sense of dilapidation.
In this vast room made to the measure of a forgotten life, the existence that
had occupied it seemed to shrink, to float, as if in too large a garment. A
pool of emptiness spread in the middle of a room; like a cargo shifted by
successive pitching and tossing within a giant hull, the scattered pieces of
furniture sought a timid refuge against the walls.
“Marino left quite early this evening. Did he have some work to do at the
Admiralty? Come and sit down over here. Don’t be afraid,” Vanessa added,
laughing at my hesitation to cross the empty room.
I sat down facing her, intimidated. The veiled lamp left her almost
completely in shadow, stretched out on a low couch. The unexpected echoes
of these walls disconcerted me, belying the precarious intimacy of this
alcove lighting, of these deep warm cushions. The bare spaces of the room
behind me made me feel uncomfortable, as if an empty theater were
weighing on my shoulders.
“No, certainly not. The captain’s comings and goings seem to concern
you to excess.”
How nervous Vanessa seemed, as if she had been thwarted! “You didn’t
say anything, did you? I mean, about your visit to Sagra.”
“No, of course not. What a notion! As a matter of fact, I hope to be
rewarded for my nobility of spirit. All the same, back at the Admiralty just
now, you were a little too discreet. I see no reason for such carryings-on.”

Vanessa remained serious. “I should be very upset if Marino discovers
that boat.”
“Is it an important secret?”
Vanessa shrugged sullenly, her expression preoccupied. “Childishness.
But that’s not how Marino would see it.”
“He might have good reasons. I seem to have seen that boat myself,
maneuvering quite a ways from Sagra. Under conditions which were
anything but legitimate, to say the least.”
Vanessa glanced at me, her expression less alarmed than inquisitive.
“And what did you conclude?”
“I informed Marino what I had seen. We went on patrol the next night.
And luckily for you, as I must tell you now, we found nothing.”
Vanessa lowered her eyes. “There’s no ban on nautical excursions. Those
statutes are ridiculous. Maremma’s becoming a popular coast, and the
Admiralty might just as well close its eyes now and then. It’s time Marino
understood.”
“Suppose you try to convince him.”
Vanessa hesitated a second, choosing her words. “The captain is a man I
esteem. But he’s not very ... intelligent.”
“Certainly he’s intelligent enough to understand such pleasures. He’s a
sailor. Perhaps a direct approach—a frank appeal ...”
Vanessa frowned slightly and shot me a serious glance. “I’m not enjoying
your melodramatic insinuations, Aldo. Do you have some notion that
Maremma is a smuggler’s hideout?”
“No.” It was my turn to meet her eyes. “But if you want to know, I find it
an odd sort of playground, to say the least. And I suppose that Marino is
wondering just as much as I am what you’ve come here to do.”
There was a moment of silence, and I suddenly realized, from my own
sense of anxious deliverance, how much weight I had put into my question.
Vanessa abandoned her studied persiflage and turned her face toward the
open window. “What I’ve come here to do? Nothing at all, Aldo, I promise

you. I was tired of Orsenna. We had this old ruin here, so I came. I’ve
stayed longer than I expected. That’s all there is to it.”
There was an accent of incredulous sincerity in her voice: every word
told the truth, but as a dreamer tells his dream.
“You find these sands so ... diverting?”
“I never see the sands. I never leave this place.” Vanessa turned toward
me. Her toneless, half-whispering voice was like the passionate murmur of
the darkness. “I’m waiting.”
“You’re talking in riddles, Vanessa. Don’t you want to tell me ...?” I felt
oddly stirred. In spite of myself, I could hear in my voice the nuance of
gentle consideration one uses at a sickbed. Vanessa’s voice, in turn, fell on
my ears with a tender confidence.
“It’s hard to make you understand, Aldo. Something’s going to happen,
I’m sure of that. Things can’t go on this way. I came back to Orsenna. You
know I was away a long time. I saw people, streets, houses. And I had a
shock. It was like seeing someone again after years and years and suddenly
realizing, clear as day, that he has death in his face. People around you
laugh and go through the motions—coming and going as if nothing were
happening ... But you see, and you know. All by yourself. And you’re
afraid.”
“Sometimes you resign yourself.”
Vanessa’s eyes challenged me. “I haven’t changed. I hate Orsenna, as you
know. I hate its complacency, its discretion, its comfort, its sleep. But I live
on it, too. And I’ve been frightened.” Vanessa became pensive. “It’s a long
time now that my people have been in this city. It’s got their claws and their
fangs in its flesh. For the first time, Aldo, I’ve seen the end, and I’m dizzy
from what I’ve seen. I’ve been thinking about the worm that finally devours
its apple—I realize that the apple won’t last forever.”
“And you’ve come to Maremma to ... reflect. Nothing more than that?”
“I don’t see what you mean.”

“Reflection isn’t the only thing being done in Maremma, it appears.
People talk. In fact, it appears people talk a good deal, Vanessa.”
“Belsenza was eager to meet you, I noticed. And I see you haven’t lost
sight of your professional obligations,” Vanessa snapped, with a certain
mockery in her glance.
“Belsenza seems quite surprised such gossip is welcomed here. And if
that’s true, he’s quite right to be surprised. You should put a stop to it.”
Vanessa’s face went blank. “I have no means of putting a stop to such
rumors. And I have no desire to.”
“Be careful, Vanessa. Belsenza has his suspicions. One of these days the
Signory will take an interest in this ... childishness. It is suspicious, as you
have good reason to know. The Aldobrandi palace is not an inn, and what
would be gossip elsewhere might suggest something more serious here.”
“You don’t understand, Aldo. In this business, everyone’s an accomplice.
Belsenza first of all—who condemns what he hears but is so eager to tell
you about it.”
“Vanessa, be honest with me ... What’s behind this business?”
“I don’t know a thing about it—I don’t even try to know. What interests
me is not what’s behind it ... but what’s ahead.”
“Ahead? Either I don’t know the Signory, or there’s going to be a
roundup of certain babblers.”
Eyes half closed, Vanessa turned away. “No. I want you to understand ...
In summer, it’s very hot along the beaches of Maremma. There are days
when the air grows so still, so heavy, that it becomes impossible to breathe.
It’s stifling. Then, in the middle of the afternoon, during this sun-drenched
calm, you see suddenly forming over the dunes these little, tiny whirlwinds.
The dust rises up in cones, suddenly a clump of weeds flies into the air, no
one knows why. Ten yards away you can’t feel a thing. Not one breath. It’s
as incongruous, as unexpected as ... as a sneeze. Behind, there comes a
storm. You can laugh at that grotesque cyclone. But it’s the cyclone which
understands best—it understands, because it’s whirling, that the air has

grown thinner and that there’s a sort of vacuum which has to be filled
somehow, anyhow ...”
“Light heads and empty minds, to begin with.”
Vanessa smiled ironically. “Wait. I’m not through with my allegory. If
stones think, they must find it ridiculous for the dust to dance in the air that
way, when there’s no wind.”
I began to smile, a little piqued—a forced smile. “Very seductive, that
image of yours. Have you given the captain the benefit of it?”
“Marino takes this business more seriously than you do.”
“Do you talk to him about it?”
“You’ve got it wrong, Aldo: Marino talks to me. I tell him what people
say around here, that’s all. He never gets tired of it—he could listen to me
for hours.”
“That doesn’t sound like him at all.”
“He’s come around. And you will too, Aldo. You’ll come around.”
Vanessa began toying with her belt buckle.
“Of course, Vanessa. I suppose I’ll have to make some sense out of this
business.” I smiled and gently took between mine a hand which remained
quite lifeless.
“I don’t think Marino comes here for information. I think he comes here
for his ... drug. He has to come. People come all the way from Orsenna, as
you’ve seen.”
“What drug are you talking about?”
“The same one, Aldo, that you keep looking for in that fortress where
there are so many maps. The captain doesn’t know why he keeps coming
back to Maremma. I could tell him. He comes back here because it’s
sickening to sleep too long, because when you sleep too heavily, you turn
over in bed looking for a cooler place, and because if you’re going to live
you need to realize, however vaguely, that the troops of Orsenna are not
doomed to harvest potatoes forever.” Vanessa’s voice fell silent, and there
was a gap. I felt an odd twinge in the region of my heart. In my mind’s eye I

saw the Admiralty ramparts, and I heard the summons their heights
addressed to the void. Now I wanted Vanessa’s voice to remain silent—too
many shadows were being dispelled. I was suddenly afraid of myself.
A low murmur came in through the windows, peopling the silence that
had fallen upon us and making the great empty room gradually come alive
around us. I felt the space behind me weighing on my shoulders; with a
nervous gesture I stood up and walked toward one of the open bays. The
moon had risen, and a dome of mist hovered over the lagoon. On the sea
front, the nearest facades of Maremma, whitish and close-set, emerged
faintly from the gloom. In the salons downstairs the music had stopped, and
a remote murmur immobilized these stone fronts. The sandbar closed off
the horizon with a black line; through the open channel, the scrolls of the
waves broke in phosphorescent landings of foam, huge stages which
seemed to collapse with theatrical shocks at the very heart of the night. A
solemn hissing rose from the sands, and like the fringe of the carpet
overhanging a dream staircase, blinding sheets of surf smoothed themselves
out at my feet over the dead waters.
I felt a faint touch on my shoulder, and even before turning my head I
knew that Vanessa’s hand was resting there. I remained motionless. The arm
brushing against me was feverish, and I realized that Vanessa was
frightened.
“Come back,” she said suddenly, her voice tense, “the night is cold.”
I turned back to the dark room. The wall opposite me seemed to float in
the diffuse pallor of the lagoon, and as though by a silhouette outlined
against a vague distance, my attention was immediately attracted by a
portrait which had been behind me when I came in and which now gave me
the sudden impression, by its almost indiscreet presence and an unexpected
and awkward sensation of proximity, to have suddenly emerged while I had
been distracted by this lunar surface. Though the painting remained very
dark and at first would have seemed no more than a vague shadow glimpsed
out of the corner of my eye, a violent sensation of the hitherto unseen made
me turn up the lights with the same brutal gesture with which one might

unmask a spy behind a hanging. And I suddenly realized what had been the
uneasiness weighing on me when I entered this room, a discomfort which
had persisted throughout my discussion with Vanessa. There had been a
third party between us. Like the gaze inevitably distracted by a sea vista or
a view of snowy peaks, two wide-open eyes appearing on the room’s bare
wall set the room afloat, reversing its perspective, taking it over as a captain
commands his ship.
I knew this famous work, one of the portraits Longhone was reputed to
have painted with that anguished jubilation characteristic of his final
manner and often materialized in the works of his old age by a faint squint
and a touch of distraction in the smile, so that some declare his masterpiece
to be this portrait—painted at the age of eighty—of the Podesta Orseolo. I
had often been mesmerized by an old copy of this work in Orsenna’s
Council Gallery, before which an age-old rite decreed that one must put on
one’s hat, in execration of the still-rankling memory of a traitor. It was the
portrait of Piero Aldobrandi, a defector from Orsenna who defended against
her besieging forces the Farghian fortresses of Rhages, and whose most
furious assault, in fact, the painting managed to evoke. But this time it was
the original which was before my eyes, as fresh, as scandalously intense as
the sheen of muscles under a fresh-peeled skin: the copy resembled the
work about as much as an agreeable nude resembles a body flayed alive.
The last wooded slopes of the Tängri, descending to the sea in gentle
lines, formed the painting’s background. The bird’s-eye view, naively steep,
truncated the mountain’s peak, whose converging lines from the lower
foothills nonetheless suggested the imminent and vital enormity of the
mass, as if the grasp of a giant paw had gripped the landscape from the edge
of the frame down to the sea. At the water’s edge, the sparkling afternoon
sunlight played over the amphitheater of houses and the town ramparts like
a sea-borne mirage. Rhages appeared, caught in the loving torpor of its
siesta, with all the indolent activity of its terraces, the mild somnambulism
of the tiny figures which ventured into its streets. A rich pelt of flames,
forming architectural scrolls, constituted a border for the besieged town.

The disturbing impression produced by this vision of a massacre derived
from the extraordinarily natural and even relaxed character which
Longhone’s serene cruelty had succeeded in imparting to his painting.
Rhages was burning the way a flower opens, without laceration and without
drama: rather than a conflagration, it seemed the peaceful unfurling, the
tranquil voracity of a greedier vegetation, a burning bush outlining and
crowning the town, the opening scroll of a rose around the swarm of insects
at its heart. Orsenna’s fleet was ranged in a semicircle in the town’s harbor,
but the wall of calm smoke rising in heavy puffs from the sea suggested not
so much the deafening fracas of artillery as some picturesque and visitable
cataclysm, the volcano of the Tängri once again dousing its lava flows in
the sea.
All that mere dissociation can communicate of what is cynically natural
to the spectacle of war somehow exalted the unforgettable smile on the face
which thrust like a clenched fist from within the canvas and seemed to burst
through the painting’s foreground. Piero Aldobrandi, unhelmeted, was
wearing the black cuirass and the red commander’s scarf and carrying the
baton which linked him forever to this scene of carnage. But the figure,
turning its back to the spectacle, relegated it to the mere status of landscape,
and the face, strained by a secret vision, was the emblem of a supernatural
detachment. The half-closed eyes, with their strange inward gaze, floated in
an immeasurable ecstasy; a wind from farther away than the sea stirred
those locks and reanimated the entire countenance with a fierce chastity.
The arm in its polished steel sheath, bright with reflected luster, raised the
hand to the face in a gesture of great concentration. Between the fingertips
of his gauntlet with its hard chitinous carapace, its cruel and elegant
insectlike articulations, in a gesture of perverse and almost amorous grace,
as though his nostrils were breathing in a drop of ultimate attar, ears deaf to
the cannons’ thunder, Piero Aldobrandi was crushing a blood-red, fleshy
flower, the red rose of Orsenna.
The room floated away. My eyes were fixed on that face rising out of the
armor’s sharp collar with the phosphorescence of the hydra’s newly severed

head, like the blinding ostension of a black sun. Its light ascended above a
nameless distance of faraway life, devising in me something like a dark and
promised dawn.
“That’s Piero Aldobrandi,” Vanessa murmured, as if to herself. “Didn’t
you know he was in Maremma?” And in a different tone of voice she
added: “Don’t you love him? It’s really a wonder, that thing. You feel as if
you were living under his very eyes.”
OceanofPDF.com

6
A Bout of Fever
There are certain privileged mornings in life when the omen appears, when
upon waking we hear, during a long aimless stroll, the resonance of a
deeper note as we linger, uncertain of our feelings, toying one by one with
the familiar objects in our room just before setting out on a significant
journey. Something like a faraway warning reaches us in the morning
brightness quicker with admonitions than any dream; perhaps it is the noise
of a single footstep on the paving stones, or the first cry of a bird faintly
heard in our dissolving sleep; but that echo of footsteps wakens a cathedral
reverberation in the soul, that cry resonates as if across the broadest
beaches, and our ear strains through the silence toward a void in ourselves
which suddenly has no more echo than the sea. Our soul has been purged of
its murmurs, of the uproar that dwells there; a fundamental note sounds and
rejoices in the newly wakened capacity, which is no more than its own. In
the intimate measure of life which is granted us, we are reborn to our
strength and to our joy, yet sometimes this note is a deep and solemn one, a
resonance that surprises us like the footsteps of someone walking through a
grotto, rousing echoes; it is because a breach has been opened during our
sleep, a barrier has collapsed beneath the pressure of our dreams, and now
we must live for days on end as though in a familiar room whose door
swings ajar, suddenly, upon a cavern.
It was in this state of unprovoked awareness that I wakened the next day
at Maremma. The lagoon was still somnolent—as if the whole town had
respectfully arranged its hours according to the prolonged sleep of the
palace. The sun was scorching the empty canals and the lifeless beaches as
if they were no more than an arid stretch of salt flats, making the laundry
strung from the windows of the poor quarters glisten with untoward
brilliance. A fisherman’s boat, on the deserted waters, drifted silently

toward the channel. The sound of voices came from Vanessa’s salon,
muffled by the distance; their distinct yet incomprehensible murmur
mingled with my dreams of the night, rejoined that faraway thunder I had
felt impending in the earlier conversation with Belsenza. People were
already talking in Maremma; throughout the sleeping city awoke, with these
muted voices, the faint throb of fever I felt beating now in my own wrists.
I got up to take my leave. There were already many people in Vanessa’s
apartment, but as soon as I pushed open the door a wave of silence seemed
to break before me. I felt uncomfortable. A sleepless night and the raw light
stripped the faces bare: despite the elegance of their clothes and their
smiles, the crowded salon at this unaccustomed hour suggested the
vigilance and uncertainty of an improvised camp, the arrival of a group of
refugees at dawn. Just as I was about to leave, Vanessa, with a swift gesture,
drew me aside. “I’m leaving for Orsenna tomorrow ... I’ll be back at the end
of the month. As soon as I get here, I’ll send for you, Aldo. Only this time
you’ll come here first thing in the morning. At dawn ...” And in a lower
voice she added: “We’ll have a long way to go.”
“It’s an expedition?”
“Yes and no. In any case, a surprise, I hope. I’ll let you know the minute
I’m back.”
Her rather feverish voice seemed to insist on confidence, and I suddenly
thought of Marino with a certain embarrassment: “Should I inform the
captain?”
Vanessa seemed annoyed. “Come alone. You have business in Maremma
—that’s all.”
An accident on the road delayed my return. The Admiralty, when I
reached it after lunchtime, seemed abandoned, every door and window shut
in the late summer glare. A desultory hammering from the sheds made the
shuddering heat even harsher on the stones. My room overlooking the torrid
plain seemed uninhabitable, and I took refuge in the cool office I sometimes
worked in, next to Marino’s: some mail had been left for me, and I began
leafing indifferently through several official notifications. In the deathly

silence, the scratching of my pen was all that opposed the faint hum of the
flies. I suddenly felt overcome by sleep; I flung myself on a cot and
immediately lost consciousness.
I wakened with a heavy head. The sun’s rays had barely shifted on the
red tiles. Someone was talking in the next room. The monotonous voice was
taking up the thread, linking me to the morning’s awakening as to a dream
interspersed with insomnias, and I reluctantly forced myself back to work,
still longing to sleep some more. Yet the voices continued murmuring
through the door, gently tireless, with the singsong, insipid calm of a
peasant argument. I now recognized Marino’s voice, whose delivery he
could retard as if on stage, and I tried with some amusement to follow, by
its mere inflections, the vicissitudes of a dispute whose subject I could more
or less make out. There was no doubt about it: that was his “farm contracts”
voice, the one Fabrizio could imitate so well. The captain’s heavy tread
rang out on the tiles, and the door opened.
“Ah! You’re awake now, Aldo. You had a short night, I see...” There was
no real malice in Marino’s wink—he seemed preoccupied. “... come and
help me out. We’ve got problems.”
In the captain’s office, Beppo, one of the foremen of our farm crews, was
tugging at the ribbons on his cap with an embarrassed look. “Do you know
what Beppo’s come to tell us?” Marino rasped incredulously. “Ortello’s
refusing to take our men back.”
Still not wide awake, I glanced up at Beppo. The news was strange, and
the setback a considerable one. Ortello was one of the largest farms in
Syrtes and supplied the Admiralty with its oldest and most loyal clientele.
Famous in Syrtes for its great hunts and its luxurious hospitality, this farm
was in a sense Marino’s firstborn and the light of his eye—he regarded
himself as something of a patriarch, the founding father of these forsaken
fields; the place had flourished thanks to him, and he set great store by it: it
seemed, when he mentioned its name, as if he had cultivated it with his own
hands.
“What’s the trouble?”

“He’ll tell you himself,” Marino snapped, obviously irritated. “Damned if
I can make anything out of it.”
Beppo coughed to clear his throat, and I could tell that Marino’s
reception had been a cold one. “The captain doesn’t want to believe me, but
they told me to say they had no complaints about the men, about the work
... It’s circumstances, that’s what they kept saying.”
“You have your own axe to grind. Circumstances!” Marino exclaimed.
“What the hell does that mean? What’s changed, I’m asking you?”
Beppo’s discouraged voice obviously had no hope of being believed. “It’s
not that, Captain ... They say they can’t advance two years’ salary—they
say they can’t commit themselves so far ahead.”
“Why not—do they want to sell the land?”
Beppo clutched at this straw, and it was clear he knew he would be
pleasing Marino: “No, it’s not that, Captain. Not land like that. They’ve just
mended the roads, and last year they put in olive trees all along the dunes.”
“Then where the hell do they expect to find men to work the farm?”
“Well, as far as that goes, Captain ...” Beppo’s tone became pathetic once
more. “They say they can manage ...”
“There’s something behind this,” Marino grumbled, looking Beppo in the
eyes. “You’ve done something stupid, that’s what it is.”
“I swear, Captain,” Beppo gasped, on the verge of tears.
Suddenly Beppo interested me: something had come into his voice, for
all its confusion, that reminded me of Belsenza. Marino’s cold rage was
obviously paralyzing him, and I realized he had not said all he could. I
made my voice sound as sympathetic as possible: “You don’t have any idea
what they mean when they use a word like ‘circumstances’?”
Beppo clung to me as if I were a life-buoy. “Not exactly, sir. They’re old
men, you know—they chew up their words between their teeth as if they
know things they don’t want to tell.” Beppo frowned, in an effort to think
out what he meant. “They say the times are uncertain, that’s what they keep
saying.”

“Uncertain?”
“They say there’s something new coming, and that they can’t make
contracts in advance.”
“Which means?” Marino’s voice was trembling.
“Something new, Captain—something bad: war, in other words. That’s
what they’re saying now.”
Beppo’s voice dropped as though acknowledging some shameful disease.
There was a moment’s heavy silence. I was trying to put a good face on
matters. Marino’s gaze, when I turned to look, was alarming. Yet his voice
sounded very much in control, and at that moment I admired him: “All
right. Carlo’s getting old, that’s what it is. You can go now, Beppo. I’ll visit
Ortello myself and settle matters there.”
Beppo’s departure exposed me. Marino, head down, hands behind his
back, walked up and down, his expression preoccupied. The silence became
so suffocating that quite mechanically I went over and opened the window.
The blank boredom of the late afternoon filled the room like an odor. The
sound of footsteps stopped, and Marino’s voice rose behind me, strangely
gentle, like the voice of a critically wounded man. “This is a bad business,
Aldo. I don’t like it.”
I shrugged as casually as possible. “I don’t think it’s anything serious.
Carlo will change his mind. I don’t see how Ortello can do without our
men.”
“You don’t?” So abruptly dependent, he seemed older; his almost
breathless voice seized me like a hand. “... That’s what worries me,” he
went on wearily, as if talking to himself. “They can’t do without us, and
they know it.”
“You should have a look. They all swear by you—you’re the only one
they trust.”
Suddenly I wanted him far away from me, the way you want to get out of
a sickroom. He seemed to be waiting for my dismissal: “Yes, you’re right.
I’ll go there right away ...” Suddenly he stopped, with a hesitant look. “I

meant to tell you, Aldo ...” He seemed almost embarrassed. “Well, it’s your
business, you’ll do as you please. You heard what Beppo said just now.
There may be something in it that concerns you.”
“I think there is.”
Marino seemed relieved. Out the window, I watched his horse a moment
as the captain rode along the causeway through the lagoons, a slender black
silhouette against the flat horizon; and it seemed to me that a gust of air
reached me over the lagoons. I almost ran to my room, temples throbbing
with a sickly exaltation. Between Marino’s weakness and his return, I was
eager to put something irreparable.
An hour later, when I had finished rereading, before sealing it, my report
to Orsenna, I set the signed page on my table and opened my window
overlooking the plain already darkened by the lengthening shadow of the
fortress; as if the chill rising from the ground had disintoxicated me, I stood
a moment with my forehead pressed against the cold pane, and for the first
time I felt creeping into my exaltation a touch of fear.
The report itself was irreproachable, and as I reread it with a head that
could not keep quite cool, I had to concede that it was a model of clarity
and moderation. Belsenza’s remarks had effortlessly come to mind, down to
their last details, and his very evasions had been transcribed as though of
their own accord and with considerable skill. And yet I remained disturbed,
less perhaps by the harmless content of these banal pages than by the
impression I retained of the abnormal ease with which they had been
written. This impression resembled that of a virtuoso who recovers from a
long sickness and feels his fingers escaping him, flying of their own free
will over the familiar keyboard. The Admiralty carriage stopped under my
window—it was mail time; I hurriedly sealed the envelope, and for a long
while I watched the carriage jolting over the causeway toward Maremma,
under a dull sky. The air was no longer so hot, and the late afternoon was
quite gray. I felt as light and empty as if I had been delivered of a child.
That evening, Marino returned very late, and we waited for him a long
time over our already empty glasses, around the dinner table. Conversation

was awkward in the darkening room, and there were long intervals of
silence it was difficult to break. One glass, still full, in front of Marino’s
chair drew our glances in spite of ourselves, like a rejected offering to the
genius of the place: here where he was not present, the wilderness came in
through the open windows. The sound of his horse’s hooves over the plain
roused us, sending round the room the undulation of a gentle flame. Marino
came in without a word and sat down, his forefinger mechanically checking
the buttons of his service jacket; this was a recognizable sign: I knew that
the transactions had gone badly. It seemed to me that the lights suddenly
lowered, and I felt a kind of tightening at my temples: something was about
to begin.
The dinner, that evening, was over very quickly. I couldn’t take my eyes
off the captain. There was a sudden and enormous fatigue in his gestures. I
noticed that he was breathing with difficulty, and seemed to be trying to
catch my attention more often than usual. Those eyes of his addressed me in
a kind of solitude, and when they met mine they momentarily shook off
their heavy mist of weariness. At that instant, I felt that Marino was
hesitating and I felt, too, that it was already too late: Fabrizio, Roberto, and
Giovanni had stopped talking, one after the other, so that gradually a
complete silence fell round the table, and in the vacuum of this greedy
silence, the news was already exploding.
When the five of us were alone, Marino lit his cigar with a sudden
gesture, mumbling behind the flame of his match: “Did you tell them,
Aldo?”
“Not a word ... You were still hoping to settle things,” I added with a
touch of cruelty.
Marino’s hand made a gesture of resigned impotence, but he suddenly
looked up, and his blue-gray eyes confronted me resolutely. His voice rose
clear and calm, addressing us all, and I noticed once again that remarkable
half-concealed authority which he exerted so rarely. “I’d like all of you to
stay here a minute. A difficulty has arisen at the Admiralty, and now is the

time to share it with you ... Fabrizio, will you close that window? We need
to be quite alone.”
Fabrizio stood up with clownish solemnity, the sense of occasion like a
sun on his face. The captain used to enjoy teasing him after our dinners. “To
hear is to obey, Captain. We don’t have a council of war every day.” The
expression fell in a sudden silence. The corner of Marino’s mouth began
trembling.
“Your commentary is unnecessary, and stupid besides ...” Fabrizio
immediately turned bright red and slid back into his chair without a sound.
One or two embarrassed coughs were audible. Marino explained the Ortello
business in a few words. There was no longer any question of “rumors,”
and the reasons for breaking the contract remained unspecified. Marino let
it be understood that the Admiralty crew had not given satisfaction. As he
spoke, I noticed that he was staring at me in a hostile, almost provocative
manner: his voice was formally warning me, accentuating syllable after
syllable of the definitively adopted official version. He ended by a swift
allusion to the conviction he had acquired this afternoon that any further
negotiations were futile. The narrative had been summary and abrupt;
evidently Marino, refusing to acknowledge the astonishment apparent on
every face, was eager to get it over with. “And now, it’s a matter of deciding
what we’re going to do ...”
He raised his head in a sudden gesture which disposed of any
commentary on the incident. Roberto sucked on his cigar with a
preoccupied expression, his eyes fixed on the window. It was growing very
dark. The vague mass of the fortress facing us swelled in the drapery of
mists it was gathering round itself. “How many men did we have at Ortello,
Captain?”
“Eighty ... Eighty-two with Beppo and Mario.”
“And it’s impossible to assign them to another farm?”
Fabrizio made a timid gesture indicating that he wanted to say
something. With an irritated thrust of his chin, Marino acknowledged him.
“It won’t be easy. I happened to be in Gronzo yesterday for the payrolls,

Captain. At first I thought it didn’t mean anything, but it was the same there
—they’re talking about sending our men back next year.”
Giovanni squinted a little. “All the same, it’s odd.”
Marino’s eyes shifted, seeking from one man after another a response
which did not come. The room gradually grew quite dark, and for the first
time everyone felt that this motionless twilight had been accompanied by a
certain anxiety. Marino once again broke the silence, his voice quite dry:
“That’s not the question. Whatever happens, we have to find some way to
use the men we have. They’ll be on our hands from tomorrow. And Orsenna
won’t let us feed them for doing nothing ... It seemed to me you had an
idea, Roberto ...”
Marino’s voice softened, seeking support. Roberto was an Admiralty
veteran, and the Captain enjoyed his slow, heavy mind, benumbed by nights
of patient waiting which reassured him, buttressing his massive calm.
“Maybe. I was thinking that if we wanted, there could be plenty of work
right here.”
“Here at the Admiralty?”
Roberto’s voice grew stronger, taking audible satisfaction in the
obviousness of common sense. “At the Admiralty.” He gestured toward the
window. “You wouldn’t say that this place does us much credit, would you?
It’s falling to rack and ruin ... Our men have been farmers for years ... they
might just as well become masons.”
“You want to repair the fortress?” A note of shrillness had sounded in
Marino’s voice, an uncontrollable vibration which a contraction of his
throat cut short, but so perceptible, so indicative of an inner panic that even
Roberto was alerted to it and remained speechless for a second.
“Repair ... may be saying too much. It’s a huge job, and we don’t really
have the means to do it. But we could clean the place up. It was once a
famous building,” Roberto added, staring out the window again, “now it
doesn’t even seem to have been built by human hands. A jungle, that’s what
it looks like—something in the bush.”

A tide of warm approval seemed to rise in the room—eyes gleamed.
Roberto’s clumsy words ignited the air. “Yes, it’s demoralizing for the men.
We can hardly take ourselves seriously living in this rubble ... You might as
well pitch your tents in the streets of Sagra and begin excavating,” Giovanni
added jokingly.
“Trust me with the Ortello crew, Captain.” Fabrizio stood up, very
excited. “In two months I can promise you a brand-new fortress. And the
cannons positively gleaming.”
There was no mistaking it: a little storm had broken over the Admiralty, a
kind of intimate sedition. Marino’s eyes shifted from face to face, stupidly
docile to the alternating impact of voices, to this abrupt wakening of energy
—already in tow, reduced to a hopeless defensiveness. He sighed deeply
and chose his words carefully, eyes fixed on the table. “All well and good,
but you’re behaving like children! The fortress is abandoned, to all intents
and purposes, and the Signory won’t put up money for useless work.”
Faces darkened, suddenly hostile. Marino’s retort came too late: a ray of
light had slipped through the half-open door, and now shoulders were
pressing against it. “If we worked out the figures—accounted for
everything, it seems to me Orsenna would be likely to subsidize you.”
“It’s a question of upkeep—they’ll extend you credit for maintenance
projects.”
“You’ve saved enough for them, Captain. The fortress still has its
weapons, and the Signory should have that much respect for itself, after
all.” There was a low murmur of approval and wounded dignity, which
suddenly sounded almost comical. Marino glanced at me out of the corner
of his eye. With a gambler’s cold excitement, I watched all these marked
cards being trumped. Marino was holding his own hand close to his chest:
“Gentlemen ... gentlemen!” He rapped sharply on the table and silence fell
again. “It seems to me you’re letting yourselves be carried away. Orsenna is
watching us, hearing us too ...” he added, shooting me an indecipherable
glance. “Don’t forget that. Aldo may be our friend, but there are limits. And
it seems to me that his silence means something ...”

I felt with a pang that Marino was playing his last card. I stood up,
feeling the blood drain from my face. I was going to betray him again.
“Roberto’s proposal sounds quite reasonable to me. In any case, the Ortello
men are our responsibility. Orsenna can’t object to our putting them to good
use.”
I saw something flash in Marino’s eyes. He stood up with a sudden
gesture. “So be it. Do whatever you like, Fabrizio. I’ll look over the fortress
with you tomorrow.” With his heavy night watchman’s tread, he walked
slowly out of the room, hesitated on the threshold, one hand sketching a
gesture he left unfinished. His head sank lower than ever between his
shoulders; his eyes had grown quite lusterless. All of a sudden I
remembered how he had looked that evening in the map room, when he had
raised his lantern. In a gesture of virtually senile capitulation he nodded his
head, wretchedly. “These are big changes ...”
Everyone looked up, astonished, but the sentence was never finished. The
nodding continued quite mechanically. The gaze wandered without any
particular focus, strangely inward, like the eyes of a sick man lost among
the dim messages from his flesh. The captain pulled on his cap and strode
stiffly away.
From that day on, a remarkable change came over the captain. Something
was vacillating within him, something which touched the very roots of his
life. When he came in for evening meals and took off his heavy service
overcoat, his figure seemed to grow slighter every day, pared away ... Each
morning his immutable silhouette in his silent office was still framed in the
remoteness of that corridor protecting it from time, exorcizing it, the way its
stone casing protects a mummy within the stiff swaddling of eternity. But
the face quite terribly lived now, with a kind of lugubrious and mechanical
vivacity in which the mind took no part, all the features having become
strangely, involuntarily contractile in their strained immobility, as if they no
longer served any purpose but to amplify, to reinforce the exacerbated
vibrations of his sense of hearing. Heavier, denser than ever beneath the
hunched shoulders, his body’s mass loomed inert. Work seemed to continue

as usual, and the pile of papers stacked on his left in the morning and
reappearing on his right each evening, like an hourglass overturned,
remained the emblem of the unbroached time of these Admiralty days; but
his face, as though severed from the body and the active hands, was riddled
with twitches and autonomous tics. Marino was listening. An impulse, a
probing sting reached him from the depths of the fortress, wakened, shaken
now from morning to night by the shock of heavy boots. Marino’s eyes, by
daylight, maintained the blind stare of a dislodged mole. Sometimes, when I
was working beside him at his desk, I raised my eyes in spite of myself and
clandestinely stared at him, startled to receive the revelation of that sudden
and disquieting animality. No doubt about it: Marino had aged, and yet this
animality was not senility—it represented a degeneration of intelligence
only insofar as it now lived at a greater depth from the surface. Or rather, it
evoked the sagacious stupidity of total attention, and sometimes reminded
me of the fascinating expression granted to the features by a life amassed
round a profound organic questioning: that of a physician auscultating, of a
woman measuring her pregnancy, of some terrified creature brooding deep
in its den over the obscure harbinger of a typhoon or a tidal wave. We
realize, in this almost forbidden tension, that there enters, into the act of
merely looking on, something sacrilegious; an instinct warns us that the
spirit which here goes to ground in front of us keeps coming dangerously
close to certain forbidden centers where something stirs, just as a faint
wrinkle traced on Marino’s brow suddenly seemed to me to balance an
enormous pressure elsewhere: I hurriedly turned away and felt that my heart
was beating faster.
Meanwhile the Admiralty was emerging from its somnolence. On the
jetty of the little harbor, on the ramparts, on the plain, an unwonted
agitation now drove away the silence which returned only in the siesta
hours, a ritual in the climate of Syrtes, though we were already approaching
the winter season. Since there was no room to lodge the Ortello contingent
in the long-abandoned sheds which threatened to collapse at any moment,
Fabrizio had had some of the plain cleared behind the fortress; tents pitched
in straight lines and the regular rows of campfires smoking for the evening

meal evoked something stricter and more military than anything hitherto
visible at the Admiralty. Marino never ventured in the direction of what he
disdainfully called the gypsy camp, and the ironical tone with which he
taunted Fabrizio about his “refugees” made it quite clear that this undesired
reinforcement, which was the source of bitter associations, remained his
own responsibility, but the continual racket of clashing rifles and sentries’
cries, growing louder as they became accustomed to the open air, was a
delight to the rest of us; it had become the liveliest part of the Admiralty.
This encampment suddenly growing out of the ruin’s side like a weed was a
kind of unexpected rising of sap in these fields; the very fact that it was
provisional seemed to suggest a future, and when, after dinner, we would
stroll in spite of ourselves toward the plain where the drifting smoke from
the campfires glowing in the dark mixed with the early mists rising from the
lagoons, the happy voices calling to one another round the invisible tents
sounded an unexpected note, a note of freedom and savagery, like the noise
that floats over a mustered troop or an embarking ship, and suddenly we felt
an incipient intoxication of adventure mounting within us. Marino had not
been mistaken: there were great changes. Like a young tree whose roots
cling wherever they can find a purchase, this anarchic but vital cell drew on
every surface of the lapsed and worm-eaten machinery of the Admiralty,
and we could hear the creaks and cracks of the place, which troubled the
captain’s torpor. Almost every day there were new problems to be solved on
the spot: lack of supplies, camp materials to be bought at Maremma, needed
equipment which made Fabrizio fume, suddenly convinced as he was of his
own importance—actually minor problems, but around which every man
busied himself beyond the bounds of his authority with an excessive zeal
which included a share of playfulness and the intoxication of pure activity,
but which only showed all the more the need for fever that had infected the
Admiralty. Lunches and dinners at the fortress were now quite noisy with
projects and decisions, with figures of estimates and discussions of service,
which now and then made Marino shake his head with that mechanical
gesture of driving off a cloud of gnats; occasionally, after an overly
animated dinner, he would gently doze off at one end of the table, or

perhaps he was faking—at least I suspected him of it: that protective
somnolence helped him regain a patch of darkness beset by all-too-legible
figures. The same profound respect surrounded him which he had been able
to command previously, yet his calculated deliberation in deciding matters,
which invariably served him as a means of slowing things down, sometimes
provoked signs of impatience which were now no longer more than half
repressed: the accelerated rhythm of life at the Admiralty seemed to be
pushing him toward immobility, and he did not resist, perhaps saving his
strength for a remoter circumstance. I noticed that he tended to set up for
himself, in the regular course of events, certain kinds of short circuits which
left him out of the running: thus it happened that Fabrizio, in charge of
fortress repairs, would apply for supplies directly to Giovanni, who was
responsible for questions of materiel. Almost every evening, councils of
two or three were thus established at the end of the table, in half-whispers,
by which Marino was not deceived; his half-closed eyes, sliding toward me
with a strange little squint, sometimes registered his ironic amazement
confronted with such zeal and with the miracle that such complicated and
unaccustomed matters could be dealt with so rapidly. At these moments his
expression was that of a profound cunning whose implications escaped me
and might have disconcerted Marino himself, in that they suddenly assumed
a curiously impersonal quality: it seemed, sometimes, that the captain was
smiling for someone else, and it was a fact that this slightly cruel smile did
not seem his customary expression; it was as if something infinitely harder
and older had been substituted for his usual wink of complicity, and in the
slits of those suddenly ageless eyelids, the sharp and icy reflection was like
a burst of blood-chilling laughter.
It was as if boredom had vanished from the Admiralty. Fabrizio’s activity
worked wonders. He had taken to the task with passion, and he found in the
men, who had expected to fall fast asleep on the rotting straw of their
stables, that shock of exuberance and wild agitation evident in those who
have escaped ... Teams for dangerous jobs had a choice of volunteers who
suddenly recalled their masting skills, and on certain days it was as if a
troop of monkeys had mounted the assault of these scowling ruins, for

Fabrizio, fearing the now-imminent advent of the rains which accompany
the winter season in Syrtes, was eager to complete the restoration of the
upper terraces and parapets, where water leaked through gaping chinks,
postponing indoor repairs for the confinement of the endless days of bad
weather. In a few days, the fortress was cleared of its overgrowth, and
suddenly there was nothing but the great pile itself. Day after day it
emerged from its cast-off garments with all the evidence of a perfect
musculature, the simplicity of a motionless impulse, of a signal, tragic and
naked beside these flat waters. Its sharp ridges nipped at the blank horizon.
Seeing it gradually rise out of its sheath, like a statue being pulled out of the
ground, it suddenly seemed to us that the air of the Admiralty circulated
more freely, and that these high virgin walls sought the likes of a sea wind
to cleanse their armor; from morning to night, our feverish eyes ran over
their piercing silhouette like a tongue over the sharp edge of a newly broken
tooth. It was difficult to understand how such insignificant changes could be
responsible for such disturbance, could reach the point of changing the very
taste and flavor of the air we breathed and make our hearts beat faster, yet I
felt it; that was how it was: the fortress was growing among us now,
piercing our flesh like a new tooth, and there was no more repose for
anyone; the fortress was there, the very image of uneasiness—established,
prevailing, disturbing, incomprehensible—the faint and continuous pain of
a sharp point, extending the disquietude of a subtle needle to the remotest
extremities of the nervous system.
Although the command of the Admiralty itself and its internal services
were not my direct concern, I too was caught up in this whirlwind of new
activity, and I visited the map room less often now. It was no longer that
receptacle of silence whose cold and mildewed breath had clutched at my
throat like that of some hypogeum. The vine-stripped windows now
permitted a brighter light to shimmer over the blackened tables, and
occasionally a ray of sunlight, which slowly shifted its column of dust with
the hours, trailed over the pile of maps, sleepily extracting from the
shadows a foreign name or the contour of an unknown coastline. The dim
echo of the inner courtyards woke to the summons of the masons who

leaped from battlement to battlement and were suddenly outlined against
the panes. These shouts and cries, this feverish racket penetrating to the
very heart of this profoundly somnolent retreat beneath its shroud of dust,
shook off their unexpectedness and their picturesqueness: just as a
landscape painted against the background of a black room loses its vital
iridescence but thereby acquires a mineral stability and seems to filter out
of things what best translates their dim reverie of inertia, it was as if the
sounds here were decanted, filtered through a cloak of snow, whereby they
lost their ordinary meaning in order to swell to a deep and indistinct
murmur which became the very sound of returning life. Thus that familiar
noise of tools and voices echoed deep in this meditative gloom, rather like
the voluble and ominous capture of these ruins by a colony of migratory
birds—as if the time had come, as if its secret season, which belied the grim
approach of winter, long hatched beneath the dust of ages, had returned to
blossom over the fortress which it was bringing back to life like a thaw.
Fabrizio now talked about “his” fortress as if he had created it. In truth he
was reluctant to speak of anything else. The place was like a giant toy in the
hands of a huge child, and the fantasies which passed through his mind on
this subject were sometimes disturbing indeed, for with him it was “no
sooner said than done”; he had the gift of immediately communicating his
intoxications, the most preposterous enthusiasms, to his crews, who were
delighted by the baroque improvisation of his plans and longed for nothing
so much as to be perfectly unaware the day before of what they would be
undertaking on the next. It was also apparent that these frantic efforts
reminded them of the unpredictability of life at sea; a kind of esprit de
corps was generated in his men, who increasingly affected to despise the
stay-at-home life of the regular crews, and not a day passed without
requests to be assigned to the work crew coming to the captain’s attention.
Such letters, which particularly annoyed Marino, went into the wastepaper
basket one after the next, and the reception given to more audacious
petitioners was not a warm one.

“Devil take the place!” the infuriated captain would mutter. “We’re
getting what we asked for. Fabrizio will debauch every man here. The
Admiralty’s being demoralized ...” And the expression in his eyes was so
somber and despairing that I refrained from sarcasm. Moreover matters
went no further, and Marino was so scrupulous about keeping his word that
I found him, ultimately, very odd indeed; Fabrizio had a free hand, and the
captain permitted himself no remarks about the work.
One evening, as we were returning from our ritual after-dinner walk
along the parapets, from which Fabrizio, full of his subject, showed us like
a commander on the battlefield the projects to be undertaken the next day,
he drew me aside, his eyes sparkling more than usual. “Marino’s given me
carte blanche. He doesn’t know how suitable the expression is. He’s going
to Orsenna for a few days. When he returns, I’ll have a surprise for him.”
“We’re all having one surprise after another, Fabrizio. You’re outdoing
yourself.”
“Don’t make fun of me, Aldo. But this time Marino won’t get over
what’s happening to my fortress.”
“Intriguing. You’re planting hanging gardens? Or putting the whole thing
out to sea?”
Fabrizio rested one hand on my shoulder and stared at the fortress,
gauging it with narrowed eyes and a possessive expression. “Not bad the
way she looks now, I’ll grant you,” he began in an unassuming tone. “But
she lacks the artist’s finishing touch. You’ll see what I mean. I’ll admit she’s
more or less clean now, but there’s still not much more to see than an old
black rock. Now look here ...” He picked up at the base of the wall a stone
that had worked loose: under its black patina a fresh break revealed a
brilliant, crystalline white. “The stone is really magnificent—you can’t
imagine the brilliance! You see, it’s like the slice of a sugar loaf. There’s
three centuries of grime on it, the filth of ages, actually. I’m going to scratch
it all off—scrape it clean. I can get rid of that patina. In fifteen days I’m
going to give Marino the present of a brand-new fortress. It will be my

triumph!” And he added, in a voice already savoring it: “Do you think he’ll
be surprised?”
Marino’s prolonged absence made things easy. It was as if a dike had
broken. Whipped on for the first time by a youthful command too long
restrained, the Admiralty took the bit in its teeth. For this contraband labor,
Fabrizio had nothing but accomplices and delved with a free hand into the
reserve labor force. The whole Admiralty service clambered up the walls,
like termites on their nest; the fortress hummed all day long, and until dark
had fallen, with a frantic feverishness, as if in preparation for a party.
At the late hour when the Orsenna post brought Marino back, it was
already dark. The captain seemed preoccupied, and it was evident to me
that the cloud of indifference and abstraction which had been protecting
him for several weeks against too close an approach had grown even more
intense. The almost ritual questions which familiarly assailed him on the
subject of Orsenna were now meeting with increasingly brief and absent
replies, and I was beginning to fear that Fabrizio would not provoke all the
enthusiasm he had hoped. The moon had risen before dinner was over, and
Fabrizio, who was surreptitiously watching the window, as soon as Marino
had lit his pipe, with an air of assumed indifference led the little group
outside for the evening promenade.
Although the fires were already doused for the night, a confused noise of
voices still rose from the encampment through the calm dark, dissolving
gradually as we crossed the sleeping plain in the gentler and ampler
respiration of the lagoon; we turned the corner of the command pavilion,
and a sudden shock nailed us where we stood. Something never seen before
and yet long awaited, like a monstrous and motionless beast risen up out of
its very expectation at the indicated spot after interminable hours of vain
stalking, something at the edge of the lagoon, long nursed in darkness, had
at last emerged without a sound from its ruined shell as from an enormous
nocturnal egg: the fortress was before us.
The moonlight falling straight down on the terraces and the upper
surfaces left the moats and the base of the walls plunged in transparent

shadow, severing the structure from the ground, seeming to make it
weightless, to suck it gently upward; and thus anchored at the edge of the
lagoon hemmed with barbs of light, the fortress suddenly appeared afloat,
carried on a fluid element which, against the inert background of the plain,
gave it the faint, slow rhythm of a vessel at its moorings. Thus surprised in
its oneiric immobility, one would have said, however, that it rode in a
measureless ease, like the silent frolics one comes upon by night in certain
forest glades. Like the first snow which touches the highest peaks with a
grave finger, its unreal whiteness mysteriously consecrated it, wrapped it in
a shimmering vapor which rose in a column toward the moonlit night,
marking it with the incandescence of a glowing coal.
“It’s an apparition!” Roberto breathed at last, breaking the silence which
seemed to extend around us: “A ghost in its shroud.”
“You’re not very polite to Fabrizio. More likely in its wedding dress,”
Giovanni broke in, but the silence suddenly closed over us all, and we
seemed to feel, falling upon us, the whole weight of that bright night’s chill.
OceanofPDF.com

7
The Island of Vezzano
“There’s mail for you,” Marino announced as I came into his office the next
morning. “Apparently the Signory knows we’re alive.”
For all his show of detachment, there was an anxious interrogation in his
voice. He held out two sealed envelopes. I recognized the emblem of the
Council of Vigilance, which controls all special police matters in Orsenna—
that boded something serious. I gave Marino a receipt without a word, and
put off opening them until I could be alone.
I was anything but accustomed to the administrative style employed in
the Signory’s offices, and once I had finished reading the first document,
which consisted of intricate and particularly prolix instructions, my first
impression was of holding in my hands one of those documents from
abandoned archives whose enigmatic and consistently allusive phraseology
seems so because it occurs in a context of familiar references to which we
do not possess the key. Taken separately, all the words of this text were
readily comprehensible, yet the meaning of the whole continued to bewilder
me. From certain disconcerting formulations, from the superfluous
accumulation of linguistic precautions where they were least expected, I
deduced that for the writer, the exact quality of meaning implied in some
term of commonplace appearance could not have been quite the same as the
one I attached to it. I now recalled the remarks Orlando had once made to
me when we were both attending the Academy of Diplomatic Law—
remarks which I regarded at the time as exaggeratedly romantic and which
concerned the “secret” peculiar to Orsenna. According to Orlando, centuries
of unquestioned political stability had permitted Orsenna to benefit from an
almost unique experience: a subtle and extended decantation. The
continuous and hereditary control of all major affairs by a few great
families had ultimately forced to the summit of the torpid social structure,

as though by the effect of a patient chemical action, those volatile principles
generated in the depths of this ageless swamp the city had become. Yet
what had startled me in Orlando’s rather obscure language was that, far
from considering this slow incarnation of vital principles as the appanage of
strength and consciousness which seems to legitimize the rights of an
aristocracy, he alluded to it rather as a suspect and altogether dangerous
process, as if Orsenna’s intenser consciousness of its reasons of state
thereby created, with this quintessence of political wisdom, a latent threat of
dislocation. According to Orlando, this notion of Orsenna—a notion of the
ulterior elements of its life and its future—held by a number of minds
belonging to the oldest families of the Signory and usually to be found not
in the highest honorific functions but in certain apparently subaltern
positions from which, in actual fact, the heavy political machinery was
controlled—this notion had at length become as radically incomprehensible
to the common people as the world of the ocean depths must be for the
denizens of translucent waters. He claimed further that the organs of life in
Orsenna, for a mind sufficiently enlightened, had ultimately become as
profoundly differentiated as, in a tree, the root from the leaf.
“The leaf is the tree’s beauty,” he would tell me, “and the copious and
brilliant expenditure of its life—it breathes by day and knows every
suspicion of the breeze, it orients the trunk’s growth according to the subtle
impressions it constantly receives from the light, the air ... And yet the
tree’s truth is perhaps more deeply based on the blind suction of its roots
and its nourishing darkness. Orsenna is a very great tree, a very old tree,
and it has sent down very long roots. Do you know why trees cannot grow
tall, down there in our Syrtes? Spring explodes there like a squall once
March comes in, and the thaw is of a matchless brutality. The foliage
spreads like flags over a parade and draws up the sap as a nursling takes the
breast—but the thaw hasn’t touched the earth’s depths, the root still sleeps
in the ice, the heart’s fibers snap, and the tree dies amidst the flowering
meadows. I have no love for Orsenna’s too-green old age, which sets in
when it would be wiser not to live at too high a pitch, nor for whatever
conspires to keep the place from a sufficiency of sleep.”

In one of our last conversations he had insistently alluded to the
stranglehold of a clan of bold and dangerously lucid minds, and had given
me to understand that such dominance, following the latest nominations to
the Senate, had intensified, unbeknownst to the public, in a fashion he
found distinctly alarming—as if, he had added, “a shadow were falling over
the city.” Moreover, old Aldobrandi’s return to favor, which indicated, to
the eyes of close observers, a profound modification in Orsenna’s
equilibrium, had made me more sympathetic to Orlando’s dark views—
especially because of the absence of such political eddies as it might have
been expected to provoke, an absence which revealed a careful preparation
and a remarkable skill in the manipulation of the complicities which this
return implied in every echelon of government. Thus Orlando’s suggestions
had silently worked upon me, and now I questioned this document with all
the feverishness of a hunter who comes upon a commingling of scents: I
sought less to determine the practical steps I was being told to take than to
observe the murky gleam of the accommodations perhaps being suggested
to me.
According to a custom which dated back, in Orsenna, to the remotest
times—apparently to a period when the archival precaution of preserving
duplicates of each piece of correspondence was not yet observed—the
document began by a painstaking review of the points established by my
own report. The instructions which had been communicated to me were
then articulated around three points, which I was enjoined to regard as
entirely distinct.
With regard to the very origin of the rumors, the instructions—here
particularly fertile in hollow formulas—remained nebulous to a point
which, upon reflection, astonished me. It was declared to be “highly
desirable,” of course, but perhaps scarcely compatible with my functions at
the Admiralty—and here the writing vanished into the sands of
extraordinary circumlocution and intricate politesse—that I should venture
into the details of an exhaustive police inquiry whose results promised, in
advance, to be disappointing and whose object would ultimately turn out to

be of a secondary nature. The impression which I received from this almost
deliberately turbid prose, and which derived less from its general and
indiscernible meaning than from the urbane and compact tedium it so
eloquently expressed, was that it was not so much a matter of alerting me to
this specific subject as of the Signory’s being protected, by a purely formal
allusion, against the incurred risk of an omission. For one reason or another,
I was courteously being led to understand that in this regard it was prudent
to function according to the routine of “ordinary procedure” and advisable
to make haste slowly.
The precise degree of these rumors’ reality seemed to concern the author
of the text much more closely, and here, for the first time, I began to discern
a subtle difference of perspective between the report I had sent in and this
ambiguous document. The notion that such extravagant stories might
possess any degree of reality whatever had not seriously occurred to me—
or perhaps I had instinctively repressed it from the start as a breach of
decorum which might have disqualified me at the Signory. Yet now it
appeared, to the point of quite disconcerting me, that it was precisely this
skepticism in my report, which I had assumed to be obligatory, that had
been found unacceptable. In the eagerness shown to deal with such rumors
as a reliable datum, to grant them, without further verification, a basis and a
future, there was evident an impulse to arrive through them at a long-
forbidden perspective, to afford them a likelihood and a range whose
possibility was being subtly and carefully suggested to me, as if it was
particularly feared that I might shut too soon a door suddenly ajar, a door
which it had been secretly hoped would open. “The Signory,” my
instructions ended on this point, “attaches the liveliest interest in the efforts
you cannot fail to make in order to shed some light on this essential point.
The extremely strict regulations now in effect with regard to navigation off
Syrtes—regulations inspired, in other circumstances, more perhaps by the
immediate concern to avoid certain perilous encounters on the high seas
rather than by the demands of an exact intelligence whose exorbitant cost
has become evident with time and has on occasion made it appear desirable
that it be somewhat relaxed—may doubtless render such verifications

delicate and incomplete, but it is incumbent upon your intelligence and your
zeal to give them all the precision and scope compatible with the powers
entrusted to you.”
“With regard to the restoration of the fortress to a condition of active
defence” (here my eyes opened wide: beyond the fact that never, even for a
second, had there been any question of military operations at the Admiralty,
my report, written before Roberto’s proposition, could only have been mute
on the subject of the fortress; but I realized that here I was being referred
for clarification to the attached papers) “the Signory is astonished to have
been informed only indirectly of an initiative about which it was regrettably
not consulted and to which it would be even more serious to allude further,
for reasons which will be explained by the enclosed document. The
Signory, while acknowledging that such a decision may well have been
taken spontaneously by a legitimate concern for security, one which
ultimately corresponds to the requirements of the situation, trusts that in the
future decisions of such a nature, likely to involve its general policies, will
not be made without its being thoroughly informed within the briefest
possible interval.”
The official instructions stopped there. They afforded me substance for
much reflection and even more surprise. But now someone, in his own
name, began speaking, someone whose indecipherable signature zigzagged
across the bottom of the page; a voice drew me aside, one that was
singularly recognizable, it seemed to me, without my ever having heard it,
by its full sonority and something like an ancient patina of power. This
voice now pierced through the official sputter and rose in isolation, as if,
more than to the flood of disappointing words, it had been of great
importance to orient my hearing, now, to the profound, almost hypnotic
suggestions of a certain timbre.
“I am pleased,” the note said, “to acknowledge the clarity of your report
and the discernment of which you have shown yourself capable by not
hesitating to bring to the Council’s attention a matter whose precise
importance was difficult for you to estimate; yet it is now necessary for me

to warn you against a certain frivolity, whose signs I have been regretfully
compelled to observe, and which your youth does not entirely excuse. The
time has come to remind you in confidence that an Observer’s functions,
implying an entire communion of thought with the Signory’s government,
require you to concur at all times with its views and to maintain a special
vigilance against the suggestions of public opinion. To all it is permitted—
within certain limits—to speak; to some it is reserved to know. The official
state of hostility—that of the Signory with regard to a certain foreign power
—may with the years have faded in the consciousness of our people to the
point of becoming a subject of mockery and jest; it is incumbent upon you
to recall, if need be against the tendencies of that consciousness, a
dangerous truth which has never ceased to exist, and to be prepared, in all
circumstances, for any contingency it may bring about. This truth has its life
in you and in several others who remain its sole depositaries; it is
incumbent upon you, and upon them, that the State which they alone may
claim to incarnate under certain disappointing circumstances, continue to be
served lucidly. I urge you to ponder the motto of Orsenna. It was the
professed opinion of the men who created the Signory’s greatness that a
State survives according to its inveterate contact with certain hidden truths,
of which only the continuity of its generations is the depositary—truths
difficult to recall and dangerous to exemplify, and thereby all the more
subject to the people’s neglect. They called these truths the Pact of Alliance,
and rejoiced, even in danger and the city’s temporary reverses, over any
circumstance which made them shine forth like a visible manifestation of its
election and its eternity. Circumstances may one day cause you to be
engaged in the defense of this Pact which the city cannot without peril fail
to observe. Orsenna expects you to be, in Syrtes, the consciousness of the
city’s danger; failing this, you must resign your post.”
The page attached was a report by Belsenza, who in his turn had
evidently determined to break his silence. The “restoration of the fortress to
a state of active defense” (I reflected in passing that it was at the very least
curious that the Signory should show so much eagerness to believe, on no
more than his word, one witness so remote from the scene) on which, it

appeared, all Maremma was daily focusing its field glasses (the huge mass
of the structure was visible, even so far away, above those flat shores)
seemed, by the confirmation it afforded such alarmist rumors, to have
noticeably heightened the fever which made the city buzz—to the point
where Belsenza had taken alarm. He had even brought himself—at least, a
modest periphrasis tended to suggest as much—to have quite discreetly
arrested, in various public places, certain chatterers who exceeded all
bounds. This entire report, written with an extreme prudence and reticence,
expressed, moreover, Belsenza’s hesitations at the moment of determining
which way the wind was blowing: careful, in his determination to stifle this
public panic, to shield himself against any reproach of negligence, yet
uncomfortable at appearing to play the cynic if the “restoration of the
fortress” happened to portend, in fact, serious developments.
Once I had read Belsenza’s note, I reread every word of the Council’s
instructions with the scrupulous attention one pays to a text which must be
translated, and I lay the papers down on the table, profoundly disoriented.
Like the first imperceptible tremor of a hull sliding into the sea, it seemed to
me that something, before my incredulous eyes, had changed. A glance was
raised behind me, aimed at the horizon, though I had thought it stubbornly
fixed on the ground, and my whole perspective was thereby altered. As
though at the lookout’s solemn voice from high on the mast, an inner
presentiment with that glance, shouted “land ho!” within me, giving a shape
and consistency to the phantom that had already fascinated me.
The noise of a motor roused the drowsy afternoon, and a reflection in the
pane of the open window showed me the Maremma car which had come to
a gentle stop in front of my door. There was a letter for me: Vanessa wanted
me to come early the next morning. Many things were known, it appeared,
at the Aldobrandi palace. Marino had left the Admiralty for two days on the
Redoubtable, which at this season was visiting the sponge beds for the relief
of the surveillance teams; this was so ostensibly a way of making things
easy for me that I was annoyed. Vanessa’s way of taking matters in hand
was infuriating; I couldn’t help thinking that she was treating Marino like a

cuckolded husband, and I was humiliated for him. The asides into which
she was drawing me made me instinctively react in the captain’s favor: I
never felt my friendship for him so intensely as when Vanessa showed me
that casualness in her preferences and in the requirements which were her
specialty.
Driving through the cool dawn toward Maremma, I recovered something
of the charm of pure expectation I had relished on my initial journey to
Syrtes. I wasn’t even trying to guess where this summons, which Vanessa
was making into such a mystery, would lead. The birds began their
melancholy chirping with the daylight, muffled and monotonous like each
of their days, strewn like so much sand over these limitless reaches; the
calm of the gray plains, still damp with morning mist, resembled those
languid summer dawns which linger as though stupefied under the traces of
a storm. Twice I turned around to glimpse the fortress behind me, a livid
bone color beneath its cloak of fog; ahead, in the distance, quicksilver
reflections from the lagoon nibbled the horizon into a thin black line of
lace, and in this already oppressive morning I seemed to feel these two
poles—around which my life now oscillated—being charged beneath their
veil of mist with a subtle electricity. Belsenza’s report came to mind all the
more forcefully: I fastened my eyes on that dark hem which lay along the
sea—already its powerful exhalations reached me in the gusts of a sleepy
wind; I listened in spite of myself for the low, stubborn murmur which the
hidden town produced in my memory, like a swamp on a stormy afternoon;
it nourished that heavy atmosphere, made its cocoon of mist throb softly,
pulsing like a secret heartbeat.
Its doors wide to the dancing reflections of the lagoon, the palace seemed
sound asleep. My calls brought no one. I walked in, hesitating in this
unaccustomed series of bare rooms I hardly recognized. A chilly
indifference hovered about the vaults, and I suddenly felt my vexation
returning. Irresolute, I could do nothing but stroll from one great salon to
the next, raising a weary eye toward the frozen saraband of the ceiling
frescoes, like a visitor to a museum. In this manner I entered a remote

gallery which overlooked the bridge and the neglected garden adjoining the
palace beyond a channel of stagnant water, and there, on the other side of
the water, standing in a covered pathway, I suddenly caught sight of
Vanessa.
There was every indication that she believed she was unobserved. She
had stepped out of the water and pulled on some sailor’s pants and a loose
shirt that left her arms bare. Now she was wringing out her sopping hair.
Brown tufts stirred under her arms, and in the hollow of her breasts lay a
dark shadow. She was holding hairpins in her tightly clenched mouth, and
her whole face was rinsed in a sudden wash of childhood; in her ambiguous
innocence, her stubborn schoolgirl deliberation, it was as if that
concentrated mouth, so fixed upon its task, was alive with all the intensity
of a carnivorous blossom, in the one blind gesture of seizing and holding.
I remained out of sight, my heart pounding, before this strange girl
suddenly given over to the disturbing grace of her pure animality. Her
fingers rippled in the soft hanks, the tilt of her head transformed the throat
into a pale shower and gently twisted the breasts as though around the
handle of a dagger. She was like the tremor one sees in the air above a
flame. For the first time, Vanessa had become flesh. She rose up out of the
tide of my feverish reveries, firm and elastic as a wet beach, made for the
sole and the palm, a gentle earth loosened beneath the lashing rain of her
hair.
I tapped on the windowpane. Vanessa looked up, turned and came toward
me across the little bridge. “I gave everyone the day off. The palace is
empty. Today’s for the two of us. I’m carrying you off.”
“Out to sea, apparently.”
“Right, very far out. We’ll need a whole day. We’re going to Vezzano.”
The name immediately awakened certain associations, and I felt an
impulse of curiosity. In my mind a black dot appeared on the blue sheet,
where I had so often imagined sailing, during those hours in the map room.
Vezzano was no more than a tiny islet, and the navigation treaties I had
leafed through at the Admiralty accorded it no more than the briefest notice:

it was mentioned chiefly for the singularity of its steep coasts, inlets
confronting the half-submerged sandbars of the lagoons which could offer
shelter to ships surprised by sudden gusts of the southern winter. In the days
when piracy was rife in these seas, Vezzano had played the part of a home
port and a fortified supply station for the sea rovers; chosen no doubt for its
sheltered creeks and its spacious caves which in places riddled the island, it
had served still better because the mainland’s proximity permitted night
transport of contraband on skiffs to the nearby coastal harbors. But all these
bygones of bloodshed and savage wealth were not what held me now. For
me, no more of a memory or a landscape was attached to that black dot on
the map than to a star’s fleck of light. Vezzano was one of my personal
stars, the gleaming point of one of my fixed constellations. If you thrust one
leg of a compass into the Rhages station, Vezzano was, from all points of
Orsenna’s territory, the one which appeared inside the circle with the
shortest radius.
The sun was glistening on the lagoon as we left the palace: the day
promised splendid weather. The wind entered my loose clothes like a hand,
voluptuously; before leaving, Vanessa had insisted that I put on the same
sort of sailor’s trousers and shirt that she was wearing. “It’s best you not be
recognized on the boat. You’ll see why. Besides, it’s more comfortable,” she
added, looking away from my bare feet, her throaty voice a little tense.
The sense that in these clothes my limbs were as free as Vanessa’s
betrothed me to her, united us like some night garment. I felt the wind
sliding over her skin and over mine, wedding us like her very breath upon
my mouth. Sitting docilely beside one another, we smiled into each other’s
eyes without saying a word, delighted with this schoolboy escapade and the
gusts of this wind that tousled her hair. My new accoutrements were a
pretext for little familiarities which left me oppressed and froze my words
on my lips, so apprehensive was I, suddenly, of betraying myself by my
choked voice; I felt the light caress of her fingers on my neck as though
they had burned me, and, when the boat suddenly pitched, her foot rested
on mine and she held me in her warm arms, laughing a little too quickly; I

was in no state to speak, but I pressed that bare foot, so chilly on the wet
planks; her arm lingered round me a second too long, and her hair smelled
of childhood and wilderness. At that moment I no longer even desired her, I
no longer felt anything but the fortifying wind which kept slapping our
faces, and a tenderness opening its thousand arms in a trusting darkness,
sure of closing them over their exact measure of sweet warmth.
The boat was now sliding into the channel of the lagoons and took us
toward the open sea. At that moment, nothing could have surprised me,
even to have undertaken the Vezzano crossing in this tiny skiff. I turned
toward Vanessa and gestured in a fashion so resolute and at the same time
so comically interrogative that she burst out laughing, with that same laugh
I had heard the first night, on the edge of the quay.
“Vezzano’s a bit too far, you know, Aldo. Our boat’s out here.” She added
in an anxious tone which uncertainty made a little harsh: “... You recognize
her?”
I recognized her. Anchored off the sandbars, a very slender outline, since
it was facing us prow on, narrowed further by the brilliance of the sea and
the sun, there lay the mysterious boat from Sagra.
“I should warn you, Aldo, I’ve neglected to have her registered. It’s very
bad of me, isn’t it? You won’t have too many scruples about embarking in a
contraband vessel?”
In her carefully pitched voice I detected an accent of involuntary
arrogance, and the compassionate eyes turned away, but I understood their
summons and her harsh attack. I would be embarking on the ship only as a
prisoner. At that moment I felt that something was being decided for good,
and I tried to meet Vanessa’s eyes. They shone upon me for an instant,
starry and fixed, then passed over me toward a distance of which I knew
nothing—at that moment Vanessa was not even looking at me. She was
leaning against me, silent, tense, a heavy and nocturnal weight, her naked
breasts hard under the shirt that was like a taut sail in the breeze. My eyes
slid down between them where a mist blurred their lawless rhythm, and I
bowed my head without a word, my mouth dry and my palms sweating.

“Come,” she said abruptly, and I stood up to follow her.
I remember that crossing as one of those days of plenitude when the
warm flame of joy flickering within us devours and calmly assimilates all
things to itself, seemingly kindled by the mere transparency of sky and sea,
as if they had been some enormous lens. The sun had scattered the mist: the
warm and meditative amber of late autumn, like a delicious exudation of the
earth, was to summer’s heat like the warm flesh of the fruit you bite into
compared to its burning skin. The fierce little waves of the Syrtes sea sent
up countless spirals of foam; around us, flocks of sea birds hovered, then
flew off over the shifting surfaces of the water, as in the calm evening over
ploughed fields. Everything around us ascended, gently aspiring toward a
paradise of feathery efflorescence: long muffled wingbeats of the gulls
interspersed with raucous cries, soft feathers snatched from the foam, the
wind’s throbbing plumage in our faces, the vacillation of the swell lifting
the boat as though on a swan’s back.
The foredeck, sheltered by a low partition which masked the hatchways
and by rolls of canvas and ropes, formed a narrow platform open to the sea
on all sides. We had brought pillows here; lying beside Vanessa, my fingers
lingered in the crook of her elbow where a gentle pulse throbbed, and I
watched the great galleons of the clouds swaying overhead in a rhythm that
matched the sea’s silent roll. The brief but intense anxiety that had seized
me as I embarked had vanished; it seemed to me that things were coming to
pass and that all was arranged and proceeding without haste according to
the rhythm of our fraternal blood. Vanessa now seemed relaxed and happy,
and when I pressed my lips to her cool palm, her hand lay on my mouth
with all its weight, and the curving, lifeless fingers of that isolated hand
came to close my eyelids and reveal a daylight of their own. The disturbing
name of Vezzano rustled in my ears like the sound of a bell carried by the
wind over a desert or a glacier; this was our rendezvous and our betrothal; it
seemed to me that at its summons the light planks we were lying on were
flying over the waves and that the horizon ahead of our prow was
mysteriously altering and emptying ....

When its white cliffs emerged from the shimmer of the sea’s distances,
Vezzano suddenly seemed oddly close. It was a kind of rocky iceberg,
notched on all sides and broken into great parapets polished by the waves.
The cliffs rose straight out of the sea, almost unreal in the glitter of their
white armor, weightless on the horizon like a windjammer under its banks
of sail, except for the slender grassy rim along the top which here and there
ran down into the steep zigzagging notches of the ravines. The reflections
of these white cliffs silvered the island in places, in others dissolved it into
the faint haze of a fine summer day, and it was a long time before we saw,
rising out of the calm water, a kind of rough and rocky donjon of dirty gray
which bore its frowning cornices at an enormous height above the waves.
Dense flocks of sea birds, flying in formations and then falling back in
looser spirals around the rock, produced something like the plumed
respiration of a geyser; their tormented cries, sharpening the wind and
echoing it in the harsh reverberation of the cliffs, turned the island into a
sullen and malevolent solitude, immuring it even more fearfully than its
inaccessible cliffs.
The boat dropped anchor in the lee of these, which cast a calm upon the
sea and a cavernous chill; a skiff was lowered and Vanessa signalled me to
get down into it—only the two of us. “This was how you wanted to get
there, isn’t it?” she whispered into my ear as though in excuse, with an
ambiguous smile. “Besides, my captain doesn’t care: no one comes here,
and all the landing places have been forgotten. But try not to drown us ...”
Rowing the skiff to land, I couldn’t help, as we entered its shadow which
sent a chill down my spine, being overcome by the solitude and hostility of
this gloomy Cythera toward which we were heading. These wild and
desolate cries of the sea birds that covered the island and chilled this
spectral shadow, these naked rocks with the pallor of bones and the memory
of that funereal past, cast an unexpected pall upon this festive sea. Along
these smooth walls, alarming the colonies of birds nesting high up in the
hollows of the rock, we rowed in silence for some time, as though under a
cathedral vault: no gap seemed to open in this tremendous enclosure, when

a faint lapping of waves against the cliff suddenly mingled with the sound
of the open sea, and almost at the same moment we slid into a creek only a
few yards wide and so deep that it seemed sawed into the mass of the
plateau. A ravine widened at the far end of this creek, and a little stream ran
into it, clattering in its bed of pebbles.
We jumped ashore on a stony beach. It was very dark in this crevice in
the very entrails of the rock—a transparent and liquid twilight seemed to be
emitted by the sound of the stream. Here the murmur of the waves no
longer reached us except as a dim rustle. Across the open slash above us,
the pale sky was turning a darker blue; in the chasm of the ravine where the
day was being engulfed, a single tree, very high over our heads, was
silhouetted, steeped still in sunlight, and seemed to be urging us to climb
up, toward the rocky heights. The silent intimacy and the penumbra of this
gorge were so unexpected that we stood for a moment without saying a
word, abashed and smiling at each other like children who creep into a
forbidden cellar. And so suddenly complicitous was the secret embrace of
this crypt that Vanessa, overcome by an involuntary anguish at the snapping
shut of this trap, took a few stumbling steps over the stones as if to escape; I
could tell that her breath was uneven and too fast, but coming up behind
her, and suddenly pulsing with a brutal energy at this confession of
weakness which affected me with a delicious thrill, I took her arm in mine
and pulled her head down on my shoulder, and all at once she seemed to
collapse heavily, no more than a warm, soft weight, loosened and
abandoned to my mouth.
We must have spent hours in that well of oblivion and sleep. The crevice
in the rock over our joined heads was so narrow, and the sky between so
distant and so calm, that the day’s variations, in the absence of more
extended play of shadows, no longer reached us; we lay resting in the same
security as tomb figures beneath that false crypt light where the shadow was
diluted as though in deep water; the faint sounds around us: a noise of fresh
water over the pebbles, the almost imperceptible lapping and the tiny
gurgle, in the rocky hollows, of the rising tide, gave the passing time, by

their long, suspended intervals and their sudden recurrences, a drifting
uncertainty interrupted by rapid spells of sleep, as if the faint consciousness
which surfaced in us now and then had taken from this very emergence the
tiny addition of weight which immediately plunged it back into a brief
swoon. I had carried Vanessa to the edge of the stream, which left between
itself and the rock the width of a narrow couch on which grew deep black
grass; my hand resting on one of her breasts, I felt her lying quite calm
beside me and utterly caught up in a dim expansion of powers; that breast
gently riding upon this deep odor of the earth brought me something like
the fortifying news of that good sleep which is the presage of profound
cures; then the excess of my tenderness for her reawakened: my frenzied
kisses rained down all over this vanquished body; I nibbled her hair that
mingled so easily with the grass. Vanessa almost awakened and, her eyes
still closed in the excess of her lassitude, let her half-open mouth relax into
a smile; her hand groped toward me, and no sooner had she touched me
than, benumbed with a confident certainty, she heaved a sigh of comfort
and sank once more into a deep sleep.
Yet the sun must have gone down a good ways, for the walls of the gorge
had turned gray, and only one of the lips of the overhanging rock was still
radiant with a narrow band of light; the sound of the waves seemed to fade,
and a few inconceivable stars, like that fleeting gleam which torchlight
wakens in certain jewels, twinkled faintly against the pale blue of the sky. A
chill rose from the wet grass; I helped Vanessa up and pressed against me
that warm, weakened weight which surrendered to my hands in a long, an
interminable embrace.
“Are we going back to the ship?” I asked sleepily. “It must be getting
late, by now.”
“No. Come.”
Suddenly lively, almost feverish now, turning toward me those eyes of
earlier days which I knew so well, she pointed toward the top of the ravine.
“The boat doesn’t expect us before dark. Why do you think I’ve brought
you here?” she asked with that cutting arrogance which at once wounded

and exalted me, because I had the impression of being snubbed by a queen,
but almost immediately afterwards she lowered her eyes and gently laid her
hand on my shoulder. “The least we can do is explore our kingdom. Just
think, Aldo, we’re all alone on an island. And you’re already wanting to
leave.”
We climbed, with some difficulty, up the shifting path of stones that was
the bed of the little stream. Vanessa clung to me over these uncertain rocks,
and soon her bare feet began to bleed. I suddenly felt the intoxication come
to an end; the already dimming light seemed to me a bad omen, and this
island of ill repute vaguely suspect; I again suggested that we return, but
Vanessa answered sharply: “We can rest up there.”
Gradually the ravine widened and flattened out; we emerged from the
gorge and were walking now, noiselessly, on smooth grass in the hollow of
a little valley which gradually led up to the island’s high plateau. In the
open air, it was still daylight; emerging into the light of these still warm
heights, every breath was delicious. The summit of the island was a blank
plain, notched round the edges by the radiating incisions of the ravines.
Sudden waves ran over the dry grass; the faint detonations of those other
invisible waves breaking in the hollows of the cliffs gave the wind the
sound of a faraway storm. Here and there, with the late afternoon’s
coolness, wisps of white mist were beginning to run and mingle over the
ground, like a panic-stricken herd—the island was already being invaded by
night—as if ahead of time the evening’s ghosts were trying to regain
possession of the plain. Vanessa led me rapidly now toward a rather steep
hill—the only eminence of this plateau—which rose before us where the
island narrowed and pointed eastward like a rising prow; to our right and
left, now very close, the ravines no longer left between them anything more
than a narrow, winding crest. Vanessa was walking in front of me without
saying a word, her breath short, her gait hurried, and it occurred to me for a
second that the island was perhaps still inhabited, and that a figure would
appear out of these rocks to incarnate her fever and my uneasiness.

Having reached the top of the hill, she stopped. The island broke off in
front of us in steep precipices; the wind here lashed it furiously, and we
could hear rising from the foot of the cliffs the waves’ continuous roar. But
Vanessa paid no attention, and probably did not even remember that I was
there. She had sat down on a split rock and fixed her eyes on the horizon: it
was as if she had suddenly taken up a vigil on this forsaken lookout, like
those mourning silhouettes that from the top of some promontory endlessly
await the return of a sail.
My eyes followed, in spite of myself, the direction of her gaze. A
brightness lingered on the hillside which still split the cloak of mist. Facing
us, the sea’s horizon was edged with a paler and astonishingly transparent
strip in the deep twilight, like one of those sunny streaks which move across
the water under the dome of mists announcing the end of a storm. My eyes
scanned this empty horizon and lingered a second over the contours of a
tiny white cone-shaped cloud which seemed to float on the water in the
fading light, and whose unexpected isolation in this clear evening air and
whose heavy shape were immediately associated in my mind with the
notion of a distant menace and the apprehension of a storm rising over the
sea. A sudden chill now broke over the island, the wind freshened, and at
the approach of darkness the sea birds had stopped crying; I was suddenly
eager to leave this sullen and savage place, as abandoned as a sinking ship.
I touched Vanessa’s shoulder. “It’s getting late. Let’s go back.”
“No, not yet. Did you see?” she said, turning her wide eyes toward me in
the darkness.
Suddenly, like a slowly saturated pool, the daylight sky had turned to a
lunar one; the horizon was an opaque and milky wall which became violet
above the still faintly shimmering sea. Filled with a sudden presentiment, I
glanced in the direction of the singular cloud. And all at once, I saw.
A mountain was rising out of the sea, now distinctly visible against the
darkened background of the sky. A snowy white cone, floating like a
moonrise above a faint mauve veil which separated it from the horizon, in
all the isolation of its snowy purity and the surge of its perfect symmetry,

like those glittering lighthouses that rise on the brink of glacial seas. Its
starry ascent on the horizon did not bespeak the earth, but rather a midnight
sun, the revolution of a calm orbit which had brought it round to the hour
said to be of the depths, washed in the fateful blossoming of the sea. It was
there. Its cold light shone like a source of silence, like a desert and starry
virginity.
“It’s the Tängri,” Vanessa said without turning her head. She was
speaking as if to herself, and I doubted once again whether she was aware
of my presence.
We stayed there a long time, wordless in the gathering darkness, our eyes
fixed on the sea. The sense of time left me altogether. Moonlight
imprecisely drew the enigmatic peak out of the obscurity, only to thrust it
back again, causing it to throb fantastically over the invisible sea; our
fascinated eyes wore themselves out following these waning phases, as in
the final gleams, more sinister and more mysterious, of an aurora borealis.
Finally it was night, deep night, and the cold was piercing. I took Vanessa in
my arms without a word, and she leaned against me with all her weight. We
walked away, heads heavy, eyes smarting from staring too hard, legs
throbbing. I was holding Vanessa close on the dangerous and slippery path
we had difficulty following in the dark, but the support I was giving her was
no more, now, than a mechanical reflex, without tenderness. It seemed to
me that over this day of sweet and caressing warmth something like a wind
from snowy fields had passed, so lustral and so fierce that my lungs which
it had stung could never exhaust its deadly purity, and, as though to keep its
sparkle a little longer in my eyes and its cold savor in my mouth, on the
stony path, in spite of myself, I walked with my head tilted back toward the
star-clogged sky.
OceanofPDF.com

8
Christmas
I visited Maremma frequently now, availing myself of the car which the
demands of work on the fortress kept sending to the city. I would leave the
Admiralty after luncheon, and even the short ride made me impatient. When
we reached the first houses of the town, I noticed that the mere—and
familiar—sight of the Admiralty flag fluttering on the fender immediately
drew a group of inquisitive onlookers, and that glances as we drove past
betrayed a certain intensity; I felt that the car’s appearance was in itself a
piece of news which shed a certain light on their day, and our presence a
sign, a confirmation that something was being prepared; occasionally I even
glimpsed out the rear window the ritual gesture of an arm raised in the
salute usually reserved, in Orsenna, for solemn occasions. It was as if
people were seeking contact, quite instinctively, with someone who seemed
closest to the secret, and I knew that a rumor would be running from street
to street: “The Admiralty car is back.” Just to get out, one had to brush
away these idlers like flies, and their glances followed my back a long time,
greedy as mouths gasping for air.
This was not the only change to be noticed in Maremma. When I dropped
in on Belsenza for the latest news, I found him more anxious with each visit
to the shabby office with its dusty smell of overheated wallpaper. He held
out the reports without a word, frowning still from his reading, a cigarette
stuck in a corner of his mouth, tilting his head back and giving me a quick
glance through half-closed lids. The rising curve of fever infecting even this
wretched neighborhood of Maremma showed up inexorably on these finger-
smudged accounts, and judging by the suspect clues which accumulated
before my eyes like discarded wrappings on the sweeper’s spike, it was as if
this fever was now suppurating. Police statistics afforded daily evidence of
a strange collapse of morality, especially in cases of exhibitionism and of

provocation to debauchery, often difficult for the police to uncover, so
greatly did they seem to benefit from the witnesses’ tacit complicity ...
Belsenza sometimes burst into the cynical cackle of a disillusioned man as
he pointed out some piquant detail, but to me such eposides seemed more
like a clinical sign of some disease, and what I had glimpsed at the
Aldobrandi palace left me wondering. The police were giving a good deal
of publicity to the business.
“It keeps people from thinking about other things,” Belsenza confided,
with an amused wink. “The police have known all along, and I shouldn’t be
surprised if my men had an occasional hand in it.”
But it was clear that Maremma did not stop thinking about “other things.”
Belsenza’s gaiety collapsed when his men brought him, as they frequently
did, some fortune teller with apocalyptic claims or one of those hairy
“prophets” (this was what the people called them) with shifty eyes and
obsequious manners, who raved nowadays on the docks at nightfall,
collecting crews from the ships.
“Birds of ill omen, those fellows. There’s something behind it—or
someone. I’d like to get my hands on whoever’s paying them!” Belsenza
murmured between clenched teeth, with a hiss of impotent rage.
Their attitude was always the same, characterized by an exaggerated and
apparently genuine respect for the official emblems and representatives.
When they were pulled into the police offices, they saluted everyone in
sight with a kind of ceremonial and exalted bombast, granting the precise
degree of consideration merited by each officer according to his function or
his rank, and then leaned against the wall and fell dumb, eyes fixed on the
floor, after which there was no hope of getting a word out of them. No
matter how Belsenza bullied them, threatened them with beatings, they
broke their silence only to utter a few ready-made phrases which constituted
the inept leitmotif of their predictions, formulas that invariably assigned to
Farghestan a vaguely apocalyptic role, a bizarre mission of Providence in
reverse.

“The hour has come ... We’re all numbered Over There ... The words are
spoken ... We’ve been counted, from first to last ...”
Their shrill, singsong voices, pitched to fill the empty squares, echoed so
forlornly in the skeptical indifference of these bare walls that they fell silent
almost at once of their own accord, and ducked their heads between their
shoulders like night birds, frightened and morose, intimidated by the sound
of their own voices, shivering like creatures caught in a snare. Belsenza
shrugged his shoulders and, depending on his mood of the moment, kicked
them out of his sight or sent them to the city jail for a few days; he had
them searched before they vanished, but oddly enough—and apparently
belying what Belsenza had said—they almost never had any money in their
pockets.
Such interrogations made me uncomfortable. Those black mouths
suddenly and reluctantly gaping over some childish nightmare haunted me
with a sinister foreboding. The desolation of those trembling and almost
obscene lips struck me particularly—as if the last defence of life had given
way, as if something had insidiously managed to incarnate a profound
human defeat. That ruined voice which seemed to come from the depths,
no, from the dregs, and which sent chills down my spine and a sudden wave
of silence through the policemen sitting at their desks, was in the true sense
of the word panic. In that filthy, somnolent office surrounded by a
mummified city stewing in its ruinous immobility, it was like a crevice of
darkness gaping in broad daylight, like the rotten nightmare of an age-old
sleep that was escaping, materializing before us, descending the stairs.
There were prouder silhouettes in that swarm of ghosts. One day they
brought in, during one of my visits, a girl—wretchedly dressed but with
delicate, almost noble features—who read the future in ashes at a stall in the
vegetable market. The interrogation started badly: her stubborn silence
became so insolent, her remote and disdainful gaze so provocative, that I
saw the cold rage gradually rising on Belsenza’s face; he seemed more
nervous than usual, or perhaps touched by a darker suspicion: “You don’t

feel like talking? We’ll see! You asked for it!” he snapped in a low, harsh
voice. “Give her a good whipping.”
In the dimness of the room, I seemed to see the girl’s eyes darken. Hands
tied behind her back, her neck was fastened inside a ring fixed in the wall,
and then they pulled up her skirts behind and threw them over her head.
There was a throb of greedy tension and excitement in the room. Belsenza
did not often afford such entertainments, banal though they were back in
Orsenna, where the authorities had a heavy hand and where a long intimacy
with violence caused it to be treated with facetious familiarity. But
something unaccustomed in that tomblike silence stopped the usual jokes.
“Have you made up your mind?” Belsenza muttered between his teeth.
A series of tiny sobs was audible through the folds of material, and I
knew that now she would never talk. For her, the worst was over: it was that
cattle collar on the auction block, that rump glistening with health and
obscenely full, which flouted our faces now, like an irresistible giggle.
Trembling monotonously under the lashes, that rump was hatched with
red streaks. A tense embarrassment fell on the entire room; there had been a
mistake here: it was as if they were whipping a dead woman.
“That’s enough!” Belsenza growled uncomfortably, vaguely realizing I
was not enjoying the scene. “Get out—don’t let me see you around here
again.”
Her face still inflamed, she pulled her skirt down, patting it smooth,
quickly arranging her hair with a provocation of childish indifference belied
by her dry, burning eyes which leaped from one object to the next as though
under an unendurable lash, as if the whole room had been grilled red-hot.
“All right, no more about it, no need for such a fuss!” Belsenza muttered,
touching her shoulder, suddenly jocular in his coarse way. “Try to see a
little brighter future next time, or you know what’ll happen ...”
But the eyes came to rest on him, black and searing, with a sudden
victorious glow: “You’re scared ... scared! ... scared! ...You’re whipping me
because you’re scared.”

Belsenza pushed her out and she scurried away, but we could still hear
the bare feet on the tiles between hysterical bursts of laughter, and her shrill,
stubborn, childish voice hanging in the air, like a wasp: “Scared! Scared!
Scared!” As she ran past outside, windows opened without a sound, like
clam shells in the sun, sucking up her cries one after the next in the silence
of that miserable neighborhood, and we all felt like fools. Grim fools.
There were more disturbing indications. Though the rainy season was
already on its way, the city’s little foreign colony made no haste to leave
Maremma, and it was already clear that many, following Vanessa’s
example, were making arrangements to spend the winter here, however
uncomfortable the various tumbledown palaces might seem, where the wind
circulated all too familiarly. Already this unexpected surplus population
was making considerable inroads on the region’s poor resources and
suggested the procurement difficulties that were facing Belsenza, leading
him to inquire even more harshly what could be keeping these idlers here in
the dead of winter. His spies were unable to learn much about their
occupations and their projects; it was a delicate matter for the police to
show too close an interest in the comings and goings of people whose
names were the very breath of Orsenna and whose influence at the Signory
was all too certain. Moreover they had all too many opportunities to meet
without suspicion in those midnight festivities that glistened ever more
provocatively at the Aldobrandi palace, and when he faced this enigma
which seemed to delight in showing itself so openly, Belsenza felt irresolute
and flouted.
“Try to understand me,” he said one day, alluding to one of these parties
with that half-squint he affected in his moments of perplexity, so that his
stare slid out between his eyelids like a coin. “Last night, who was there?
Count Ferzone, Senator Monti’s wife, and the Secretary of the Presidio
Council! If that’s a conspiracy, then Orsenna’s conspiring against itself. I’m
beginning to wonder just who the police are working for. Can you tell me
these people aren’t the first ones who read my reports?” His evasive eyes
sought mine insistently now. I knew that my intimacy with Vanessa had

raised a barrier between us: it was as if those cunning eyes were seeking
some sort of password, making peace overtures through me ... There was a
lassitude in his heavy shoulders, a kind of collapse. “What bothers me,” he
went on, “is that Orsenna has nothing to say. In any case, what we’re doing
here isn’t much use. I don’t enjoy having girls whipped. And besides ...” He
made a disabused gesture and glanced toward the window. “... Maybe what
they say is true. Maybe it will end badly ...” There was a moment’s silence
in the room; the sound of footsteps limped along the canal, lost in the sleepy
afternoon. It seemed as if something—sand, say—was yielding gently
under my weight, and quite unconsciously I took a step toward the door.
Belsenza started, like a man waking out of his sleep: “You’re going to the
palace—the Princess is back from her trip. Lucky man! I don’t go as often
as I’d like.” He looked at me knowingly, and continued in a serious tone of
voice: “... Sometimes I’m afraid I get invited only to make up for what I
have to do on active duty. Please assure the Princess that she’ll never have
any trouble from my department.”
Thus the uneasiness was gaining ground, and day after day you could see
some new defense collapsing in an unexpected fashion. As if we were
troops advancing into fog, a subtle disorientation of the adversary was
preparing and precipitating our movements. When I thought of the
instructions I had received from Orsenna, and of the complacent echoes I
kept hearing from the city, the rumors filling the place with fever, it
sometimes seemed to me that Orsenna was growing weary of its slumbrous
health, and without daring to admit such a thing to itself, greedily hoped to
feel alive, to wake up altogether in the numb anguish that now was reaching
its very depths. As if the happy city, which for so long had swarmed over
the seas in all directions, and whose inexhaustible heart had electrified so
many vital bodies and venturesome minds, now sucked the bad news deep
within its sullen dotage like a richer vibration of all its fibers.
I left Belsenza and made my way through the labyrinth of mean streets to
reach the quay where a boat was waiting for me. Impatient as I was to
rejoin Vanessa, I sometimes found a certain charm in lingering in these

alleyways that zigzagged between blind facades and the melancholy little
gardens won from the sands, where great patches of shade fell quite early in
the afternoon. Here was a whole sullen suburb pitched on the scalloped
stretch of dunes which marked the edge of terra firma, its crumbling age
and leprous abandonment made still more desolate by the return of the sand
the scorched gardens no longer resisted; sometimes, under the gusts of the
sea breeze, I could see the delicate shining plumes tirelessly pouring over
the wall of a ruined enclosure and carpeting the narrow pavement, like so
many cascades of silence; but if I peered over the wall, the persistent
murmur of the open sea and the wind’s clatter suddenly overwhelmed me,
and my eyes stung. I relished that threatened silence and its coigns of
darkness that seemed to be suspended over a vast, deep clamor; I would
slide my fingers through this sand that had been winnowed by so many
storms and that now was muzzling the city in somnolence; I watched
Maremma silting up, and at the same time, my eyes stinging, battered by
the furious wind pelting the sand, I seemed to feel life itself throbbing more
fiercely at my temples, as if something was rising behind that entombment.
Sometimes, at the corner of a street, balancing a pitcher or a basket of fish
on her head, a fisherman’s wife would appear beneath the eternal black
veils which make groups in Maremma into so many funeral processions,
and which the women draw over their mouths to protect themselves from
the hail of the sand: soundlessly she passed close to me, like a ghost
wandering through the dead city, bringing an odor of the sea and of the
desert too, and what she made me think of, appearing that way from this
uninhabitable necropolis, was one of those wandering and funereal flames
which rise and flicker over a landscape gorged with death. On these
extreme verges, life risked itself, more vulnerable, more naked, appearing
against the horizon of salt and sand like an exhausted banner, fluttering
through the vanishing streets like a shred of forgotten shadow in broad
daylight. Already the light was waning over the sea, and I seemed to feel a
desire rising in me, a desire of terrible fixity, to make these hurrying hours
shorter still, a desire that the final days should dawn and the last dubious
combat approach: eyes wide open on the thickened wall of the open sea, the

city was breathing in the darkness, breathing with my own lungs, like a
watchman in the shadows, eyes fixed on the night where it was darkest.
I would find Vanessa sometimes inert, sometimes feverish: as if these
afternoons she saved for me, in all the agitation she chose to generate
around herself, disoriented her, and tender and playful as she could
sometimes appear, it seemed to me that this silence and this empty
tranquillity of ours left her disconcerted and uncertain, as if she had been
afraid of finding herself alone too long—not so much with me as with an
image of herself to which my mere presence had wakened her. When the
weather was fine, she often signalled to me from over the canal, in the
abandoned garden where I had found her the morning of the Vezzano
expedition; on gray days, which the season made more frequent now, she
would be waiting for me in the empty salon which still intimidated me. A
chill rose from the calm water and enveloped the silent palace; through the
door open wide onto the canal came at intervals a peaceful noise of oars
dipping into the dead waters. I was sure at this hour to find no one but
Vanessa, and I would linger a moment beneath these cold vaults where my
footsteps echoed on the tiles: it seemed to me as if I were rousing a castle
from its sleep; through the bays giving onto the inner courtyard, the
motionless foliage of the winter garden seemed caught in transparent
crystal. Here the gathered centuries had worn down the corners one after the
next, filtered the light, muffled all things with an impalpable dust until they
had achieved this masterpiece of quietude and somnolence, and nowhere
perhaps better than in this ancient dwelling could one perceive the
profoundly neutralizing genius of the city, which relieved things of any
power of suggestion that might be too lively and managed ultimately to
give the very decor of everyday life the gently balsamic virtue and the
profound insignificance of a landscape. Then I would think back to my visit
to Sagra and the observations Orlando had made to me in the past—and as I
lingered in the halls of this palace which disclosed itself to me in the
silence, as I plunged into the crystal of these dead mirrors and these
benumbed canals, as I breathed this liquid transparency of the autumn,
listened to the panelling creak in the exhausted silence, it seemed to me that

something had been revealed of its spell and of its irremediable doom; as if
all of Orsenna’s age-old effort, all the images of its life the city had
indulged, had sought an almost terrifying loss of tension, a final
equalization in which everything and everyone would be released from their
assertion of offensive presence and of their dangerous electricity: the
excessively humanized forms, too long eroded by a too-continuous friction
among which life itself had been perpetuated, created for it a kind of
garment of ever deeper unconsciousness, through which no contact would
ever rouse it again. Waking each morning, Orsenna put on the world like a
jerkin long worn and shaped to its body, and in that excess of comfortable
familiarity the very notion of its frontiers was dissolved; the city’s faint
consciousness of itself had slowly taken root in an earth now so profoundly
kneaded by humanity that it seemed, ultimately, to have entirely absorbed
it, and its soul, having entered the imprint it had made at the heart of things,
left Orsenna shivering over a void, leaning so far over that it virtually
touched the excessively exact likeness rising from these motionless canals,
like a man who felt himself slowly sliding through to the other side of the
mirror.
When I think back now on those unbroken and monotonous days, full as
they were of expectation and vigilance, like the nausea-crammed languor of
a pregnant woman, I recall with astonishment how little Vanessa and I
seemed to have to say to each other. The ardor which flung me upon her
flagged and waned quickly enough, like the fevers of those sad afternoons
on the lagoons. This palace so recalcitrant to life, with its doors swinging
wide, its cathedral dimness and ecclesiastical echoes, where the shifting
reflections from the canals moved eternally over the walls, was a kind of
temporary encampment for us, an open and inhabitable grove beneath its
motionless shade; yet a perpetual wakefulness prowled there. I never felt I
was entirely alone with Vanessa; on the contrary, lying beside her with my
fingers hanging over the edge of the bed, I sometimes felt, in my irresistible
exhaustion, the uninterrupted pressure of a swift current sliding along with
us: it was sweeping me on as it had at Vezzano, gently launching the
massive palace on the dead waters—such afternoons of swift and feverish

tenderness passed as though swept away on the tide of a river, more silent
and smoother for already showing, far away, the plumed and final collapse
of a cataract. Sometimes I watched Vanessa sleeping at my side,
imperceptibly divided from me as from a shore, and suddenly setting out to
sea with a deeper breathing, as though swept away by a flood of euphoric
fatigue; at these moments she was never naked, but had always, having
fallen away from me, tugged the sheet up to her chin with a swift and
shivering gesture—the reef of her shoulder streaming under her submerged
hair seemed to ward off the imminence of some huge mass: the bed’s long
solemn reach buried her, with all its silent surface ferrying her away;
propped on one elbow beside her, it seemed to me that I was watching the
leeward drift of that heavy head from wave to wave, ever more remote and
inaccessible. I glanced around me, suddenly chilled and isolated by the
ashen daylight that hovered in the room with the canal’s reverberation: it
seemed as if the tide bearing me on had just withdrawn to its lowest mark
and that the room was slowly draining through the black hole of sleep,
haunted by bad dreams. With her arrogant immodesty and aristocratic
unconcern, Vanessa always left the high doors of her room ajar: in the half-
light that fell like a fine ash from the glow of those short days, limbs
outspread, heart heavy, I could feel on my skin something like a cold
exhalation from that series of high, dilapidated rooms; it was as if the fallen
tumult of pillage had forgotten us there, huddled in a corner—as if my ears,
listening in spite of myself, were trying to catch in the distance, in the
darkness, somewhere in the waiting silence of a beleaguered city, the gusts
of a wild hunt. Anxiety would bring me to my feet, and I would find myself
standing in the middle of the room—it seemed to me that the distance
between objects and myself had imperceptibly increased, as if there had
been a movement of faint withdrawal, a sullen and persistent hostility in
things. I groped toward a familiar support that suddenly failed, and my
equilibrium gave way, like the void that opens before us among friends who
already know a piece of bad news. My hand would clutch at Vanessa’s
shoulder in spite of myself; she awakened slowly; on her tilted face I saw
her pale gray eyes floating beneath me, set like jewels in a dark and sleepy

curiosity—those eyes riveted me, drew me like a diver toward their viscous
gleams; her arms stirred, reached for me, groping in the darkness; I
collapsed with her into the fathomless water of a dark pool, a stone tied
round my neck.
I took a lugubrious pleasure in these Maremma nights, every hour of
which I sometimes spent beside her, sinking together—like the lagoon
pilings in each morning’s swell of black water—in the hollow of lassitude’s
breaking wave, as if the loss of my substance which left me empty and
exhausted had matched me with the feverish defeat of the landscape, its
submission and its torpor. Through the saturated atmosphere of this watery
country, the stars no longer twinkled at the window; henceforth it seemed
that not even the faint breath escaping from a collapsed lung could rise from
the prostrate earth; the night pressed down on what seemed no more than
some beast’s den, heavy and hot. Occasionally, behind the sandbar of the
lagoon, an oar groped through the sticky water, or even closer rose the faint
obscene shriek of a rat or some other creature prowling round the larders. I
tossed and turned in that oppressive darkness as if in a hank of greasy wool,
gagged, isolated, gasping for air, wrapped in a suffocating damp; Vanessa
lay beside me, under my hand, like the intensification of a heavier and even
closer darkness; sealed, leaden, blind beneath my palms, she was that night
I could not enter, a tenacious entombment, an ardent and remoter gloom in
the coil of her hair, a great black rose loosened and proffered yet knotted
hard over her heavy heart. It was as if these nights, for all their sopping
sweetness, endlessly nursed a storm that would not break—I would get up,
walk naked through the row of rooms as empty as a forest glade, almost
moaning with loneliness, as if something burdened yet fluttering had
summoned me and at the same time fled from door to door through the
stagnant air of these high moldering galleries; sleep barely closed over my
listening ears, as when we are wakened at night by the remote glow and
murmur of a conflagration. Sometimes, coming back to bed, I saw a shadow
stirring over the floor and, in the gleam of a lamp, Vanessa’s hands, holding
up her tangled hair, making huge moths flutter across the walls—how faint
her features looked in that light!—so weary and pale, still swathed in a

dream too ominous to share, and the lamp’s motionless glow failed to
reassure me. Once her voice rang out, oddly impersonal—a medium’s
voice, a sleepwalker’s that seemed a victim of the visions of some calm
delirium: “You left me alone, Aldo. Why did you leave me alone, all alone
in the dark? I felt you had left me, I was having such a sad dream ...” She
fastened her slumbrous eyes on me: “... You know there are no ghosts in the
palace. Come back, don’t leave me alone.”
I stroked her forehead and kissed the smooth place where the hair began,
overcome with sudden tenderness by that childish voice. “Were you
frightened, Vanessa? Frightened at night, in the heart of your fortress ... And
what a fortress! Good heavens ... Weapons everywhere, even in our
bedroom. And the fourteen Aldobrandis standing guard in effigy.”
Her eyes tight shut, she held out her warm arms and her little girl’s
pouting lips, and I kissed her impetuously, the way you bite into the warm
cheeks of a proffered apple, but the momentary passing of a breeze threw
her back on the bed, teeth chattering, shivering from head to toe. “Oh, I’m
so cold!” She seized my hand, suddenly nervous, serious, her stare drifting
through the open gallery as through some remote undergrowth. “How grim
it is here, Aldo! Why did I ever come back? I hate these bare walls—never
anything to look at but the waves and the fogbanks ...” Her voice was in my
ear. “It’s as if we were in a plundered port, and all the tide gates were
broken. We seem to be cut loose in these huge rooms. As if the ship were
slipping anchor ...”
“But you’re the one who wants to keep all these doors open, Vanessa. It
always seems to me as if we were sleeping in the street.”
“Poor Aldo!” She caressed my hair distractedly. “... How well-behaved
you are—what an obedient little boy!...” A flicker of darkness passed over
her, and she turned her face away. “And suppose we were in the street, even
if everyone were to come through here, through this room, this street—so
what, Aldo ... What difference would it make? What do you care who sees
us?” Her voice rose now like a muffled and mournful confession. “... Who
do you think we’re dealing with here, really? When I came back to

Maremma, I was beside myself with boredom, it was more than I could
bear. I was all knotted up, I wanted to smooth myself out, to become
smooth and hard in my own hands like a stone, the stone you throw in
people’s faces. I wanted to meet with something finally, to break something
—the way you break a pane of glass, in all this suffocation. As for scandals
and provocations, I promise you, things have happened here which went
beyond all bounds. No laughing matter, Aldo: seriously, yes, seriously ...”
She shrugged her shoulders, suddenly exhausted. “... It was like a stone you
throw into the lagoon. There was a little ripple of vague curiosity, and then
the water closed over it. And not because I aimed badly. But some animals
digest even the stones you throw at them, they’re nothing but one huge
digestive tract—a belly, a crop ... And I felt I’d been swallowed up too,
digested. Harmless—you understand what I’m saying? Assimilated—it’s
terrible, that sense of equality as feed, as if you had turned to swill, like
seeds in a stomach—and if there happen to be grains of sand in it, the
creature will digest all the better for that! You contribute ...” She shook her
head in despair. “... Suppose we were out in the street, what if we made love
in the street, what difference would that make? What do you think? People
are watching you here, Aldo, but you must realize it goes no further than
that, no further than eyes. There’s no consideration. And I need that—I
need consideration. Oh yes, that’s what I need—to be considered. But not
by all those eyes. For real. I need to be in the presence ...”
I leaned over her, listening to her, incredulous as this panic cry escaped
from her lips, this vehement flood of words like a spreading pool of blood.
Suddenly she seemed extraordinarily beautiful—it was the beauty of
perdition—beneath her heavy hair and in her armored, chaste severity, like
those cruel and funereal angels who brandish their fiery swords above a
blasted city. She propped herself up on one elbow, and fixing her eyes on
mine, spoke in a calm voice now: “What I’m thinking is what you’re
thinking too, Aldo, isn’t it? I’m sure you understand me.”
I kept my eyes fixed on hers. “I think I do, Vanessa, but by now you must
know there’s a name in Maremma for that consideration of yours. It’s not

exactly a pretty one, and you’ve known all along—you and your people—
what it means.”
She gripped my arm with a calm, nocturnal hand. “Yes. You know it too,
and since you’ve come here you’ve lived for nothing else. That’s why I
visited you in the map room, and why I took you to Vezzano; and what you
have to do now—you know that too, don’t you?”
I couldn’t get back to sleep that night, and I spent the hours in the terrible
nervous exaltation of a first night of love. Vanessa lay beside me as though
drained of her blood, her head severed by a dreamless sleep; spread out
there like a woman in labor, she burdened the bed beneath us. She was the
pollinated efflorescence at the end of this corruption, of this stagnant
fermentation—the bubble that formed, that freed itself, that sought the air in
a mortal yawn and gave up its exasperated soul in one of those sticky
explosions which produce, on the surface of swamps, a kind of poisonous
sputter of kisses.
Daylight was filtering into the room. Vanessa was already up. Dressing
hurriedly, she came and went in the room, and through half-closed eyelids I
noticed that she was watching for the moment when I awoke. In her long
fluttering gray peignoir, she made the uncertain gestures of a bird sheltered
in a cave, looking for its way out, its direction. She came to me, knelt at the
edge of the bed with a tender gesture, put her cool arms around me, and I
seemed to taste salt on her lips. “I’m going to leave you for a few days,
Aldo. You know I have to be back in Orsenna.”
“Already, Vanessa?”
She did not answer, but lay her head on my chest, and I pressed her to me
with a passion I had not yet known.
“It won’t be long. You’ll remember this night? ...” And she added,
lowering her embarrassed eyes: “It was splendid, Aldo ...” And suddenly,
with a clumsy, impulsive gesture, she kissed my hands. “... How strong
your hands are, Aldo. So powerful, so strong...” She rubbed her cheeks
against them, gently. “... Hands to hold joy, or else ruin; the kind of hands

you want to trust yourself to, even if it means death and destruction—even
if it means ending it all.”
“But there’s no question of ending anything, Vanessa. You make me so
happy. Aren’t you happy too?”
She kept her huge eyes fixed on mine. “Oh yes, my darling, yes, I’m
happy. But what I meant was that I’m brave—I’m not afraid of what those
hands will bring me. Even if it means ending everything ...”
She shuddered, scattering her hair around her like a sinister cloud; I
plunged my hands into that warmth, eager to take refuge in that false
security, and my heavy heart felt the minutes drain away, like a schoolboy
nibbling at the seconds separating him from the alarm clock’s icy invasion.
“By the way, I’m taking Marino with me to Orsenna—he asked for a seat
in the car. They’re very interested in him at the Signory these days, no
doubt about that,” she added, her voice heavy with meaning. “In any case,
you’ll be alone at the Admiralty for a few days ...” And she added, in a
strange tone that seemed to me only half ironic: “Supreme commander after
God, Aldo ... Isn’t that the formula you use?”
Once Vanessa had left, I felt depressed and at loose ends, and I decided to
spend another day in Maremma. It was Christmas Eve, and on such a night,
confinement between the Admiralty’s damp walls suddenly seemed more
than I could endure. There would be crowds in the streets, and some instinct
impelled me to mingle with them one last time. In these equivocal days
when I felt the genius of the city wavering, it was the instinct which brings
us up onto the deck, cheek against other fresh, full cheeks, when the ship
trembles on its keel and the huge shock rises toward us from the vibration
of the depths.
Strolling along Maremma’s few shopping streets, it seemed to me that on
the eve of this anticipated holiday, the pulse of the town was throbbing
more feverishly. The tradition in Orsenna’s territories, on Christmas Eve,
was to dress up in motley woolen capes which recalled the desert and
restored the Nativity’s commemoration to its remote Orient, but this year it
seemed to me that the pious disguise had assumed, in many people’s minds,

a double meaning and an aspect of special significance. Among the
processions which filled the streets and glimmered here and there under the
dim lights, I noticed certain figures passing which, more than the age-old
Orient, reminded the eye of the red and gray garments and the full striped
cloaks of the desert tribes whose wear had remained popular in Farghestan.
Their passage provoked shouts from the children in the streets, in whose
eyes this finery had long since characterized the ogre of their bedtime
stories, but it was doubtful that it was only children these costumes were
out to frighten. Much more vigilant glances were suddenly fixed on these
figures—were evidently watching for them before they even appeared; it
was obvious that this equivocal disguise sharpened the already tense
atmosphere, and that the crowd took a kind of morbid delight in the fact, as
one finds a certain charm and perhaps the feeling of a murky self-
realization in the first shudders of a light fever. It seemed as if the crowd
were preening itself at the evocation of this spectre, as at the only mirror
whose reflection still lent it warmth and stability.
“What does our distinguished Observer make of this horde of Bedouins?”
Belsenza suddenly inquired as he bumped into me, apparently accidentally,
as I came around a corner. He was in a grim mood, and evidently in a
coarse vein: “I don’t know what keeps me from pulling off one of those
filthy head-cloths. I suspect they’re covering up more than one runny nose
I’ve been wiping for them lately.”
“I don’t advise it,” I answered a little sharply. “People are nervous—and
this is hardly a day for a police raid.”
“Don’t worry about that—I’ve got other reasons, and better ones, for not
doing anything like that today.” With a mysterious look, Belsenza suddenly
drew me by the sleeve into a doorway. “... You know what they’re saying ...
They’re saying that our holy masquerade’s a convenient excuse for certain
people to come out of hiding, and that behind those veils are some who are
anything but local types taking the air on Christmas Eve ...”
“So?” I could smell, now, that Belsenza had been drinking.

“My orders are to proceed with care. Very well. To hear is to obey—rules
of the game. But I promise you, my dear Observer, that these carnival faces
won’t be coming here to jeer at me for long. They’re getting a little above
themselves, Over There ...” He seized my arm and with a theatrical gesture
drew back even further, more excited minute by minute. “We’ve eaten
enough crow, my dear Observer, as you have ... observed, no? But enough’s
enough. I may lose my job—so be it. But as I was saying just tonight to the
Syndic of the Consulta—there’s a time for patience. Orsenna’s not a
doormat; they’ll find us ready”—the gesture was decisive, and decidedly
noble... . “Come to Saint John Damascene tonight,” he added with a wink,
his voice suddenly furtive, the words mumbled.
I watched him scuttle away, wondering how much he was faking, taking
advantage of the wine to accomplish a certain transition. But the meaning of
this crude language was no longer in doubt: ultimately Belsenza had found
his isolation intolerable. The mechanical drift of this vulgar soul, suddenly
pulling away from its moorings, showed that the waters had now reached a
certain critical level.
I returned to the palace for a dreary dinner: the electrifying contact of the
crowd had made my solitude all the more depressing. When the first bells
tolled for the evening’s ceremonies, I found myself almost involuntarily
making for the rendezvous Belsenza had suggested, in front of the high
Persian domes of Saint John Damascene. My idleness was not the only
reason; the place itself had wakened my curiosity.
In all our southern territories, there was no church so famous, even less
for its striking adaptation of Eastern architecture revealed in the gilded
vermiculation of its domes, than for the stubborn suspicion attached to the
liturgy and the rites it sheltered. Much more profoundly than in the North,
the official church must have compromised here, in the past, with the
heresies and internecine disputes of Eastern Christianity, and the domes of
Saint John Damascene had for centuries represented the chosen rallying
place of all that was venturesome and turbulent in the religious thought of
Orsenna. As the age-old center of a tiny community of Syrtes merchants

reattached by the accident of their voyages to the Nestorian Churches of the
East, then of an initiatory sect whose links with the secret groups of the
“Integral Brothers” in Moslem lands seemed to have been unquestioned, the
church’s legends had made much of the councils sheltered under these
Moorish cupolas and these high black vaults trickling like grottos, under
which had prayed, at the feet of an inscrutable God, Joachim de Flora and
Cola di Rienzi. Ultimately deconsecrated, the incorrigible rebel church had
long remained closed, gradually surrounded, moreover, by a bizarre popular
respect which no doubt derived from its shape and from its exotic and
misunderstood ornamentation, and perhaps too from the sentiment of an
obscure guarantee entered into with regard to the reigning and official
divinity; so that Marino, a splendid connoisseur of Syrtes when he chose,
wittily observed that Maremma had married San Vitale (the cathedral) in
God’s sight, and Saint John Damascene morganatically. Doubtless the
clergy had ultimately decided that the danger of heterodoxy was, all things
considered, less serious than the accumulation of dreams which weighed
upon this forbidden shrine, too alluring and too ostensibly dedicated to the
obscure, for in the last few years, after an expiatory ceremony, the church
had been reopened for worship, and its malign attractions officially
exorcized by what the monastic clergy’s intransigence did not hesitate to
call a disguised capitulation. The course of events did not contradict these
intimations; it was evident—the documentation gathered by Belsenza left
no doubts on the matter—that Saint John Damascene had forthwith turned
out to be, in the very special atmosphere now prevalent in Maremma, the
chosen and not-to-be-monitored meeting place of alarmists and
rumormongers, as well as the fashionable rendezvous of the skeptical rich
winter visitors, whose number in the town was increasing. Vanessa herself,
unbeliever as she was, frequented the place assiduously, and gave no more
than evasive reasons for doing so; she was supposed to be a protectress of
the clergy, whose illuminist tendencies had taken root again as though by
magic—and by her intervention, perhaps. I had the impression that there
hung over this murky brazier, initiated in the highest circles of Orsenna, that
effect of permission from on high so intimately evoked for me by my

instructions from the Signory. Saint John Damascene was one of the
fissures through which the suspect vapors had invaded the streets. A glance
at this crypt that reeked of sulfur would not be amiss.
The church stood near the place where the sandbar thrust out from the
coast, in the heart of a wretched district of fishermen which even on this
solemn day the naive and intentionally pauperized elements of its entire
decoration recalled. Mended nets were hung along the walls, and according
to the ancient custom of the Syrtes mariners, a fishing boat with all its gear,
drawn on rollers to the altar itself, replaced the creche: under its thicket of
lights, the floating cradle strangely transposed this peasant scene to a more
threatened nativity, a berth in peril of the sea. Around the cluster of lights
directly under the dome, the rest of the nave was very dark, but from it
proceeded that magnetic and virtually tactile communication, like the
shimmering air over a scorching highway, which rises from a crowd taking
communion in a state of extreme fervor. This fervor owed nothing to the
bovine rumination of Orsenna’s over-familiar Sundays, which expressed
only the well-being of the carefully counted flock, pinioned to the nostrils
in the maceration of its own odor; what could be sniffed out here and there
in the narrow streets, like one of those exotic smells which suddenly dilate
the nostrils, here suddenly landed in your face like a blow of the fist. A
powerful leaven worked in this crowd and rose high above it into the very
domes; this dense horde among which it drifted shouldered the mystic boat,
which swayed monotonously to the rhythm of a deep and rediscovered
song; on this Christmas Eve borne to the winter’s heart like a nocturnal egg,
it seemed to me that at the breath of these warm and wakened voices I felt
the ice cracking and melting beneath my feet and a kind of sinister fever
welling up from underground—a thaw too sudden, a doomed spring. Like
the squall that stirs the dead leaves, the old Manichean chant rose up from
the crowd, like a wind blowing in from the sea:

Out of the darkness comes
One whom my eyes long for
His Death delivers me
His Cross sustains
O dread Redemption
O sign of my distress
The womb is as the tomb
For the Birth of travail
How poignant it was, that voice which bore the strange and funereal
canticle out of the mists of time, like the rustling of a black veil over this
joyous festival: that intimate voice which so naively alighted in the
lugubrious tonality of its remote past. And I could not hear it without a
shudder for all the secret panic it betrayed. Like a man in danger of death
who finds his mother’s name on his lips, Orsenna at the moment of its as
yet unrecognized dangers was seeking refuge in its deepest Mothers. Like a
ship in the storm, which instinctively presents itself broadside to the waves,
the city was reinvesting all its long history in a single cry, incorporating
itself into it; confronting the Void, Orsenna was thereby assuming its lofty
stature and its deepest difference; and for the first time, perhaps, coiled in a
terrible vehemence, I was hearing the naked timbre of my own voice rising
from its depths.
Meanwhile the chanting stopped: a more vigilant silence showed that the
crowd’s emotion was now waiting for an intelligible sign to reach its
climax, and that the officiating priest would now mount the pulpit. I
watched him with the closest attention: he was wearing the white cassock of
the southern monasteries, and something about him—his vague and myopic
gaze, of a remote gentleness and yet of a maniacal concentration—
suggested those redoubtable visionaries, like coals half devoured by the
flame of mirages and the fire of the sands, whom Orsenna had seen appear
so often on the desert’s fringe. Walking toward the pulpit, he swayed like a
white flame between the rows of the congregation without touching anyone;
then, when he had mounted the steps, the cluster of candles illuminated him
from below and projected a harsh, predatory shadow over his jaws; the

entire face seemed to rise to the unsettled surface of the night; there was an
almost imperceptible stir among the congregation, as intimate as that of
hands just touching one another, and I realized that the time of the prophets
had returned.
He reminded us first in a neutral tone, expressing a kind of hesitation or
exhaustion perhaps, of the particular importance which the liturgy accorded
this festival, and he exulted, as at a particular sign of providential favor, that
it could be celebrated this year with all its habitual luster in Saint John
Damascene, “a voice among all the voices united on this night in the choir
of the Church Militant to which was ever granted a special resonance and,
in the heart of our people, a signal effectiveness.” After this colorless
exordium, the voice paused and then rose, gradually sharper, clearer, like a
blade slowly being drawn from its sheath.
“There is something deeply troubling, and for some among you there is a
kind of bitter mockery, in the thought that this year it should be given us to
celebrate this festival of expectation rewarded and of the divine exaltation
of Hope upon a sleepless earth beneath a sky devoured by bad dreams, and
in hearts seized and anguished as though by the approach of those very
Signs whose redoubtable decree is written in the Book. And yet, in this
scandal of our minds wherein our hearts have no part, I invite you to read,
brothers and sisters, a hidden meaning, and to discern in fear and trembling
what we may anticipate in the profound mystery of the Birth. It is in the
dead of winter, and at the very heart of darkness, that this pledge of our
Hope was bestowed upon us, and in the desert that the Rose of our salvation
has bloomed. On this day which it is now given us to live through once
again, all creation was mute and prostrate, the Word was no longer heard,
and the very sound of the Voice no longer found an echo; in that night when
the stars leaned down from their courses, it seemed that the spirit of Sleep
penetrated all things and that the earth, in the very heart of man, rejoiced in
its own Heaviness. It seemed that the very creation weighed like a crushing
stone upon the sealed breath of its Creator, and that man had laid himself
down at full length upon that stone, like one who gropes in darkness for the

place of his sleep. For a man finds it sweet to pull the covers over his head;
and who among us has not pursued his dreams and supposed he might sleep
the better if he made of his very body a bed, and of his head a pillow? There
are also curtained beds for the mind. Here, on this night, I curse within you
that engulfment. I curse the man thus woven into the things he has done, I
curse his complacency and I curse his consent. I curse an earth too heavy, a
hand which has thrust itself into its own works, an arm benumbed in the
mud it has kneaded. On this night of hope and trembling, on this night of
the world that gapes widest and most uncertainly, I denounce your Sleep,
and I denounce your Security.”
Among the people there was a shudder of attention, and an occasional
cough was choked off in the shadows.
“... Let us turn in our hearts, with trembling and with hope—and this is
easier for us than for many another—to that profoundly disappointing night
which is day, to that dawn which coils yet like a veil around the uncreated
Light. Already the earth is gravid with this anticipated birth, and yet the
earth has chosen to hide itself in a night of troubled counsel and evil omens,
and what walks before it and heralds it as the dust before an army, is a
sinister rumor, bloodshed, and the very omens of destruction and death. On
this very night, centuries ago, men lay waking, and their anguish pressed
round their temples; from door to door they went, smothering each newborn
child snatched from its mother’s womb. They were watchful that hope be
not fulfilled, leaving nothing to chance in order that sleep be not troubled
and the stone be not rolled away and the tomb unsealed. For there are men
to whom it is ever an evil thing that there be a birth; a ruinous and
disturbing thing, blood and cries, pain and impoverishment, a terrible
upheaval—the hour that has not been set, the plans it interrupts, the end of
repose, the sleepless nights, a whole tumult of accidents around a tiny box,
as if the very wineskin of the fable in which the winds have been caged had
just broken open. (And it is true that the birth brings death as well, and the
omen of death. Yet it is the Meaning.) I am speaking to you of a race of men
which is not dead among us, of the race of the closed gate, and of those who

hold that the earth is even now fulfilled and replete, that it has its
sufficiency; I denounce among you the sentinels of an eternal repose.
“O brothers and sisters, in that dreadful uncertainty of the night, how rare
are they who welcome the Birth from the bottom of their hearts. They come
from far in the East, and they know nothing of what is asked of them; they
have for guide only the fiery sign that gleams unknowing in the sky when
there shall be shed the blood of the vines or the blood of transgression and
disaster; theirs is a realm of fabulous wealth, and it appears that upon their
garments in the depths of that night there is a glow and a light still, as when
we see the inestimable accumulation of treasure gently crumbling in the
depths of a cellar. They have set out nonetheless, leaving all behind them,
bearing the rarest jewel in their coffers, and they know not to whom it will
be given them to offer it. Now let us consider, as a great and terrible
symbol, at the heart of the desert, this blind pilgrimage and this offering to
the pure Advent. It is the royal part of ourselves who with them begins its
journey upon this dark way, behind that mute and moving star, in pure
expectation and in the profound mystery of their course. In the depths of
that night, already, they are on the move. I call upon you to enter into their
Meaning and to seek with them blindly what will be. In this indeterminate
moment when it seems that all things are held in suspense and that the
moment itself hesitates, I call upon you to take part in their supreme
Desertion. Blessed be he who can rejoice in the heart of the night, who can
rejoice only because he knows that such darkness is great with
consequence, for the shadows will bear fruit, for the light will be lavished
upon him. Blessed be he who leaves all behind him and lends himself
without pledge or warranty, and who hears deep in his heart and in his belly
the summons of the obscure deliverance, for the world will wither beneath
his gaze in order to be reborn. Blessed be he who abandons and deserts
himself, and in the heart of darkness itself no longer worships anything but
the deepest fulfillment ...”
Once again the preacher paused; his voice now rose more slowly, muffled
by the gravity within it.

“... I speak to you of the One who was not expected, of the One who has
come even as a thief in the night. I speak to you of Him here, in a moment
of darkness and on an earth that may be doomed. I speak to you of a night
when there must be no sleeping. I bring you tidings of a dark birth, and I
announce unto you that the hour has now come when the earth will once
again be weighed in His hand, and the imminent moment when to you as
well it will be given to choose. O may we not deny our eyes to the star that
gleams in the deep night and realize that from the very depths of dread,
stronger than dread, the inextinguishable voice of desire rises in the dark
passage. My thought turns with you, as to a deep mystery, to those who
came from the depths of the desert in order to worship in his manger the
King who bore not peace but a sword, and to lull the Burden so heavy that
the earth shuddered beneath its weight. I prostrate myself with them, I
worship with them the Son at His mother’s breast, I worship the hour of the
agonizing passage, I worship the Way opened and the Gateway of the
morning.”
The crowd suddenly wavered as it knelt, with that deliberate and almost
indolent subsidence of ripe wheat beneath a stroke of the scythe, and all the
spaces in the church surged together, overwhelming me beneath a powerful
and fierce murmur of prayers. The congregation prayed shoulder to
shoulder, in a formidable immobility, paralyzing the air in those high vaults
into a block so compact that it tightened round my temples, and the very
breath suddenly seemed to drain from my lungs. The smoke of the candles,
suddenly, stung my eyes. Between my shoulders I felt a heavy burden, and
that sort of bewildering nausea one feels watching a man who is bleeding to
death.
I did not look for Belsenza in that crowd. In the emotion that had seized
my throat, I imagined with disgust—an inexpressible disgust—the way his
slow and myopic gaze would scrape over me, like a blade seeking some
chink in the armor. I leaped into a boat for hire—the heavy and humid night
lured me on; instead of returning to the palace, I ordered the boatman to
take me across the lagoon.

This cold and salty darkness did me good. Before me, the Aldobrandi
palace, entirely in darkness, drifted on the water like an ice floe; to my left
the few lights of Maremma plunged a shrunken constellation into the very
sea, as if, once the land was devoured, the horizon itself had withdrawn
before the gulping swarm of stars. Maremma seemed to be melting into this
nocturnal mass, dissolving there, a city vanished into its hour and its figure,
engulfed beneath the beacon of these tiny nails of fire.
I gave myself up for a long while to this promised night, fleeing myself
in the heart of its mystery and its remoteness. The dampness dripped from
my coat in cold beads; in the circle of faint light projected by the boat’s
lantern, the lagoon lapped tirelessly against the planks. I gradually sank into
somnolence. The image of Marino sitting in his office at the Admiralty
flashed before me—I could see his strange smile of cunning and
connivance; it wavered in front of me with the rhythm of the boat like a
man walking on the waves, like a ridiculous clown; then the oscillation
diminished; for a second the face remained before me, motionless, and I felt
his taciturn and fixed eyes meeting my own, but at that very moment I had
fallen asleep.
I found the Admiralty less somnolent than might be supposed after the
festivities of the night before. The Redoubtable was at its mooring, its decks
cleared of their usual disorder; men were busy with the heap of coal.
Fabrizio, who came out of the great hall, hurriedly turned back upon
catching sight of me, and suddenly I heard, exploding from inside, a
deafening concert of official whistles, as when the admiral joins the fleet at
anchor under all flags. “Everyone on deck. Captain’s here!” shouted
Fabrizio.
I realized that the joke had been carefully worked out. The three acolytes
were waiting for me, swords drawn, stiff in a perfidious alignment; I could
even make out a few notes of the official anthem. Saluted by hurrahs, I
immediately ordered a distribution of liquid provisions. There were great
slaps on the back, and strangely moved, I sank back into that unthinking
camaraderie—we were young, the four of us, and so spirited, so strong, so

united in the sun of that bright dry morning, that I felt like embracing them
all.
“... And he shall com-mand the seas ...” Fabrizio sang out, with a whistle
of respectful admiration. “Just between us, it’s high time you got here. First
of all, let me give you the briefings from the Holy See,” he added, suddenly
serious as he handed me the envelope. On account of his patriarchal
deliberation and his decidedly sedentary tastes, this was the nickname we
sometimes gave Marino, among ourselves.
Marino’s message was short, and seemed to have been written in a hurry.
In his sensitive friendship, he had not bothered to use the official forms, and
somehow, as he made this simple observation, his kindness and his trust
suddenly filled my heart like a warm wave, so sudden and so immediate
that I felt I must have been blushing. Once again I recognized that
astonishing virtue he had of impregnating things merely by touching them,
and in a simple phrase so like the sound of his voice, to revive the very
music—yes, the touching and clumsy melody which was evoked by his
entire frank conduct, as if his fingers, on everything he touched, could
produce only the simplest and the most affecting chords. He informed me,
in putting me in charge of the Admiralty, that he had given orders for a
night patrol, and that he had no doubt that I would keep a good watch.
“Take care of the Redoubtable,” he added, “I always worry about those
damned shoals, and our fleet is no longer brand new. Make sure the men
take soundings before turning into the channel—it tends to silt up; Fabrizio
stranded me out there last time. All those fellows are only scatterbrains who
think they know something about navigating, but you’ll be there, and I can
rest easy. Don’t forget—without taking any special trouble—that brandy is
to be issued only after night watches, and don’t let Fabrizio tell you
otherwise. Whereupon may San Vitale (this was Marino’s patron and, I
think, the providence of our coastal waters) watch over you at sea as on
land.”
“You’re taking me, Aldo, promise me that,” Fabrizio shouted behind me,
his hands cupped around his mouth, in the doorway. “Be a friend. We’ve

drawn lots, the three of us. I’ll take the Redoubtable anywhere you want,
up, down, sideways ...”
The day was spent in feverish comings and goings; soon I was
surrounded by open cabinets in my disorderly room, as if I were preparing
to take a long trip. This agitation kept me afloat, like the swimmer
supported by his movements; careful not to interrupt it, I was half losing
sight of what was collapsing beneath me. Suddenly I recalled with a sense
of timidity and embarrassment that I was going to occupy Marino’s cabin;
this sleepwalker’s agitation and these yanked-open drawers had merely
deceived my need to get on board right away. I was like the tardy passenger
who hears the whistle blowing, and I was afraid of seeing the Redoubtable
leave without me; I wanted to be out to sea already. I hurried to the dock,
suddenly filled with a miraculous certainty of seeing the ship there, a
wakened creature gently shuddering beneath the undulations of its bright
smoke, yet disappointed, like a child wakened from his dream, to find it so
paltry and so small.
The Redoubtable was deserted—a huge insect of ill omen, inhabited, in
this marshy drowsiness, only by the imperceptible and gnawing trepidation
that came from its lower depths. I scarcely knew the vessel—during my
first night on patrol, I had not budged from the bridge—and I wandered
aimlessly over the sun-baked deck where the iron of the railings was
already warm under my hand, intimidated by this demanding machinery,
like gears into which one would be afraid to stick a finger. I tried Marino’s
key on several doors; the creaking noise of the iron plates underfoot was
disturbing in that silence; the atmosphere of the dim corridors suffocating; I
was about to give up, exasperated, when a little iron door finally gave way
and opened onto a room so tiny that I almost bumped into the opposite wall,
where an old service cap that I knew very well was hanging.
A bright light penetrated the cabin through the rear porthole, but before I
had had time to notice the slightest detail, Marino’s presence surged up until
I had to close my eyes in that odor of cold tobacco and dried flowers that
burst upon me as in his Admiralty office, as extraordinarily intimate as the

effluvium of a mummy from which the swathings are unwound. Dazed, I
gazed around me, once again seized by that feeling of a presence larger than
life which always seemed to nail me to the floor when I confronted Marino.
It was hardly enough to say that the room was in his image, or that it was so
in the very fashion of those Egyptian hypogea with their walls painted with
doubles and with a withered garland of exploits hung round the empty
sarcophagus. Yet there was very little inside this little room. From the usual
weapon rack hung Marino’s familiar pipes; on a little table, a narrow-
mouthed vase of the green Syrtes faience still held a few withered flowers;
the fat book of Nautical Instructions served to wedge it fast and now stuck
to it, covered with a film of mildew. Beside a pair of horn-rimmed
spectacles lay an open ledger, which I glanced into: Marino had taken the
farm accounts to sea with him, to check them over. I suddenly had such an
intense sensation of that confined tranquillity, like that of an open
herbarium from which the age-old pollen still gently teases the nostrils, and
which moored the ship to land more solidly than its hawsers, that I opened
the porthole with a desperate gesture, as if I were struggling to get some
fresh air, and then lingered a moment as I considered the contents of a tiny
glassed-in frame hanging beside it. There was an old, yellowed diploma of
the Navigation Academy with its date and, all around it, Marino’s
decorations: the Syrtes Medal (fifteen years of faithful service in the
desert), blue with red stripes; the Rescue at Sea Ribbon; and the noble red
circle of the Medal of Saint Jude, which is conferred, as everyone in
Orsenna knows, only on those wounded in action. I examined these for a
moment—all of them extraordinarily faded, of the consistency of dry leaves
in their glass reliquary. I tried to imagine Marino poring over his medals
under the glass, with that naive pucker of frowning attention so
characteristic of him: such remoteness, such dizzying distance kept from
oneself bewildered me; I decided to stretch out on the narrow cot for a
minute, uncomfortable as it was in this dreamlike chamber; a faint
movement on the ceiling made me start: it was the compass needle which
Marino consulted from his bed, stirring over my head like an awakened
animal. The room was pursuing me; I got up and for an idle moment leafed

through the Nautical Instructions: filaments of mildew stuck to the damp,
smelly pages: judging from appearances, Marino had been navigating by
guesswork for a very long time; once again he rose up before me, an
hallucination out of this book with its sealed pages—heavy, burdensome
even, sowing the earth with calm, his eyes fixed on what is close at hand,
yet with the almost alien glow of their mysterious sick man’s anxiety ... A
footstep suddenly rang out on the plates over my head: the notion of being
surprised here vexed me, and I went to the mirror to adjust my jacket; for a
moment my gaze stuck, I plunged my eyes into its gray depths and it
seemed to me that out of such exact images an infinity of exactly
superimposed ones slid away, endlessly replacing each other at tremendous
speed before my eyes. I dropped the porthole cover on the glaring light, and
after a moment’s hesitation pushed closed the door on the scent of faded
flowers, with the wary gesture with which you seal off a dead man’s room.
I went to the Admiralty office to give some orders. I was taking Fabrizio,
a plan long since decided on; I checked that the usual provisions and
ammunitions were on board. Beppo, now quartermaster following the farm
shutdowns, raised an almost invisible eyebrow: these were not customary
orders; they were superfluous, I realized with embarrassment: nothing was
ever touched on the Redoubtable; I imagined the unbroached cases, lined up
under the faint greenish mildew: the loaded revolver, forgotten underneath
the papers at the bottom of the drawer in the night table.
“You expect to get into something?” Fabrizio smiled, bustling around me,
always excited by preparations, even those for a game of cards.
“Fool! ...” and I punched him on the shoulder. “You’d be only too glad to
go across only one way, wouldn’t you?” I added slyly.
“Bah, crossing ... You know, with these seamarks ...” Fabrizio shrugged,
annoyed, pointing to the stark white fortress. “Childsplay now, even at
night, that’s what Marino doesn’t realize. And they won’t award me the
Danger at Sea Medal: how unfair can you get! ... All the same, it’ll be fine
tonight, out there on the Calmed Sea” (the Calmed Sea—the Sea of Syrtes
in Admiralty slang).

Fabrizio rubbed his hands as he scrutinized the sky, with Marino’s
familiar nod. There was more than the usual jubilation in his manner,
however controlled—the kind you find in very young children on the eve of
a long-awaited holiday.
By noon, everything was ready, the last preparations settled, down to the
merest detail: what little work there was to do had melted away in my
hands, irresistibly twitched away from me by some alien force: the coil of
rope between the harpooneer’s fingers. Our sailing was set for very late—
the sea would be high only after dark. I was facing an intolerable vacuum. I
had my horse saddled; my nerves were devouring me, and this was a good
excuse for solitude.
The air was dry and very clear now; the sun-flooded sands as crisp as any
frost, and the dry kelp glistened. I remembered just in time that we still had
some money to collect at Ortello: the remains of the pay for our work teams
—this would take me long enough to be away with good reason. The gray
path threaded its way through the heath, strangely distinct under the sun in
this vacant landscape between the slopes of kelp where the sea wind
rustled; a deafening hum of insects rose from the warming soil. When I had
climbed the first dune, I turned back toward the sea: an ink-blue half circle
ringed the pale beaches more closely at each step my horse took. Beneath
me I saw the Admiralty, tiny already, nestled in the heat like a new-laid egg,
dissolving in the cruel shimmer of the salt flats; a vast white reverberation,
effervescent now, devoured the fortress that stuck up like a bank of living
chalk above its square of black shadow. The Redoubtable lay against the
finger of the jetty, stuck to it like the jewel in a ring. Everything rested in a
petrified immobility, and already the landscape had drunk down man as
thirsty sand consumes water; only the heavy smoke of the little ship, rising
out of its stack like a feathery staff, produced a note of imperceptible
alertness in this desert, and the smell of a cheap kitchen. The landscape
plunged behind the curtain of sand; the faint smoke rose a few seconds over
the horizon, entirely alone in the calm air. I put my horse at a trot on the

hard ground. In this transparent air I felt myself burning like dry wood; my
whole body was on the move, intensely, dangerously alive.
The Ortello farm appeared in the distance on the side of a steep hill,
surrounded by olive groves and bushes, its long stone buildings scaling the
slope like huge gray steps. The dusty ground in front of the entrance was
quite empty, and the shed was vacant where the heavy, greasy wool hung,
and where I had participated in more than one hunt breakfast. It seemed to
me that the sight of my uniform, which must have been familiar enough,
was causing a certain disturbance—at once respectful and alarmed—among
the farmhands dozing in the barnyard’s narrow shade, as if this worn
emblem had regained its full meaning, as if all at once it too had been
scrubbed clean of an invisible patina.
“Master Carlo will be glad to see you,” the foreman said, taking my
bridle. “We haven’t had much news here, since ...”
He stopped, embarrassed, and hurried away to announce my arrival.
I found old Carlo on the veranda overlooking the sea. A trellised canopy
sheltered him where a vine grew up the side of the building; over the low
wall, a rectangle of dazzling reddish earth sizzled in the sun; in the distance,
above a bank of dunes, the sea’s mineral blue lay out in a line scarcely
thicker, yet of an unexpected acuity and polish: the watchman’s gaze
through his arrow slit. Old Carlo was stretched out on a wicker chair in a
shady corner, the very image of extreme old age; a faint, patient respiration
seemed to glow faintly over his huge inert body, like an ember forgotten
among the cinders of a forge. Near him, on a low wicker table, were set a
glass and one of those shiny, dew-beaded pitchers of the South which keep
their coolness all afternoon. Now and then the sea birds’ cries could be
heard, harsh and abrupt, more desolate here on these ashen plains than
anywhere else.
“Come all alone, Aldo?”
The old man squinted, a sign of welcome. He was like a planet gone cold,
no longer reacting except by a few cracks, a few folds running over the
surface of his skin.

Without waiting for my answer, he pointed behind me. The foreman
reappeared almost immediately and set down a sack of coins on the table. I
turned toward the old man, startled by this behavior, and took his hand with
an attempt to smile, but the smile froze as if it had met with a pane of glass:
that face was already staring back with the insolent indifference of death.
“I didn’t come as a bill-collector, Carlo,” I murmured.
“Sure, Aldo, I know you didn’t ...” The old man patted the back of my
hand. “But you see, everything was ready. It’s time to put the accounts in
order,” he added in a strange tone of voice, turning his eyes away as if the
reverberation of those scorched plains were hurting them.
Suddenly he met my eyes again in an extraordinarily inquisitive manner,
still patting my hand in silence, as if he had dislodged a piece of news
which had vanished, watching now for its appearance on my face. “My
time’s coming,” he said after a moment’s silence, “nothing you can do
about it. I tell you, Aldo, the desert wears a man out!” With this last
sentence came a gleam of malice in his eyes: he didn’t expect to be
believed. “... My time’s come,” he repeated, his voice pensive and bitter,
“and now it’s come too soon.”
“No, give yourself another ten years, Carlo—we’ll talk about it ten years
from now. ‘Not before the olive trees have grown,’ you know the old Syrtes
saying ... And Beppo told us you’ve been planting them.”
The voice froze my artificial laugh. “No, Aldo, it’s now, and it’s too
soon.”
The old man drank a mouthful of water and said nothing more. You could
hear the birds now, flying over the dunes: the tide was rising.
“All right, Carlo, when it comes, it comes ...” I felt my voice was
different now, and I touched his shoulder in an impulse of genuine
friendship. “... Isn’t everything in order here?”
His face turned toward the horizon where the sand met the sea.
“Everything’s in order. Only I’m tired of order, Aldo. That’s what it is.” He
squeezed my hand with an almost unconscious movement. “Things are over
for me, Aldo, try to understand. My work’s been blessed, as they say, and

everything you see out there—that’s good land I’ve got now. I’m bowing
out with more than my share of rightful property ...” His eyes drilled into
mine. “... If you knew how it ties a man down! I stuck my thread
everywhere I could, and now I’m rolled up in my cocoon, that’s what it is:
rolled up, tied up—packed up. Here I am, and I can’t move my arms or my
legs; you think that’s sickness, Aldo? Not two weeks ago I could still outrun
a rabbit. But I’ve done too much for what’s left, that’s what it is. Once
you’ve understood that, it’s over—the spring breaks. That’s what it means
to grow old, Aldo; what I’ve done has fallen on top of me, I can’t lift it any
more ...” And he repeated with a meaningful look: “When you can’t lift
what you’ve done, that’s the lid of your coffin.”
A servant girl brought out food, then lingered with one excuse or another.
This mute stratagem, after the foreman’s, ended by taking a suspicous turn:
it was as if they didn’t want to let the old man out of their sight for too long
at a time; I noticed the murderous gaze the old solitary fixed on the back of
the girl’s neck.
When she finally left, Carlo kept silence, absolutely motionless, and it
seemed to me that the respiration in that huge body had become more
difficult. I half stood up, disturbed, my mouth very close to his ear: “Don’t
you feel well?”
“Not well, not sick, Aldo, enough for what I still have to do. But it’s hard
to breathe out here, you know; not enough air.”
“You couldn’t be much closer to the sea.”
The old man shrugged, bitter, stubborn, and gave up trying to make me
understand. “No, there’s no air. There’s never been any air. It’s Marino who
says different.”
“Why did you send away his men, Carlo?” My question was out before I
could think of checking it. The old man stared at me intently, there was life
in his glance again; evidently I had brought up something he enjoyed
remembering.
“He didn’t like that much, did he, Aldo? He came to see me right away. I
can tell you, he was one surprised fellow.”

“Why did you do that to him?”
“Why ... ?” Suddenly Carlo’s face darkened and he seemed to fall back
into a kind of lethargy. “Hard to make you understand ...” He tried to
reflect. “... Don’t go thinking I don’t like Marino; he’s my oldest friend. I’ll
tell you. When I was a boy, our old servant used to sleep in the loft, without
any light. He was so used to it he could walk in the dark without even
feeling his way, as fast as in broad daylight. Well, you know, the temptation
was too much for me: there was a trapdoor up there, so I left it open ...” The
old man seemed to think for a moment, with difficulty. “... I don’t like
people being so sure things will always be the way they are.” He half closed
his eyes and began nodding, as if he were falling asleep. “...And maybe it’s
not such a good idea, things always staying the way they are.”
During the last few minutes, the foreman had resumed his mute watch at
the end of the veranda. I understood I was outstaying the time permitted. I
said goodbye to the old man, strangely moved. “Goodbye, Aldo, we won’t
be seeing each other again,” he said, resting one hand on my shoulder.
“Don’t worry too much about Marino,” he added with a shrug and a look of
amusement. “He’s the kind of man who’s never known how to say yes.” He
stared at me a moment, still nodding: “Marino’s never known how to say
yes.”
The foreman led my horse to me. He thanked me for my visit and told me
with some insistence how pleased the old man had been to see me—the
kind of polite excuses made for a child or an invalid. I felt surprised and
shocked: it had been clear Carlo wasn’t so bad as that. “I see you’re quite
concerned about him,” I said a little sharply as I got into the saddle.
“We have to keep an eye on him: he’s failed a good deal lately. He’s
losing his wits ...” He brought his mouth close to my ear, speaking in a
guilty, muffled voice: “The night before last he almost set the place on fire.”
The sun was already sinking as I took the path back to the Admiralty. The
oncoming evening brought silence to the plain. On this omnipotent
horizontality, movements were rapidly absorbed, so that they had the short
and incoherent agitation, the insignificance of a sleeper’s gestures. From

time to time a sand jerboa crossed the path, zigzagging before plunging into
the brush, sending up fine plumes of dust; under the birdless sky, this lump
of noiseless life hugged the ground, rendering the evening’s immobility
almost stormy, seeming to flatten itself out under an invisible dome of fear.
I returned from Ortello in a sombre mood; I understood that in spite of
myself I had studied this landscape for a sign, the way you instinctively
raise your eyes upon hearing something too serious, hoping to catch the
reassuring denial of a cloud across the sun or a flower swayed by the wind;
suddenly open to all the burdensome confirmation this evening afforded, it
seemed to me that I knew now that old Carlo was going to die.
Dinner that night was very silent. Giovanni and Roberto were as useless
as a boat run aground; Fabrizio kept rushing in and out, busy with the last
preparations for getting under way. It was a farewell dinner, and I should
have liked to preserve those moments of calm which Fabrizio was tearing
into tiny pieces; my heart laden with friendship and with habit, I felt cut off
from this banal and gentle community: I knew already that this meal was
our last. As soon as dinner was over I lit my lantern and went to the map
room for the ship’s papers and sailing documents. This formality filled me
with uneasiness: I had known from the start I would perform it only at the
last moment.
It was already very dark in the almost underground chamber; once the
door was closed, all the chill of winter and solitude flowed over me out of
this icy heart, yet for all the grim welcome of this shivering confinement,
once again everything dissolved into the overwhelming, ever-new sensation
that this place—more than anywhere else in the world—was crammed with
that imminent existence which distinguishes a baited trap from a stone. The
sneer of this cave-like atmosphere alarmed me; I kept my lantern beam on
the ground—I was moving fast—temples throbbing, hands nervous, turning
around, sometimes, in spite of myself toward that yawning void which
swallowed me up as if something had suddenly grimaced on the wall. I
gathered up the maps hurriedly; at the heart of that unapproachable silence
which my furtive gestures sullied like a faint pattering of mice, I was

ashamed—ashamed as I had never been in front of human beings. I now
belonged to this irrecusable violation; I backed out of the doomed room,
and I could feel how pale I was, holding the roll of maps pressed against my
chest like a tomb robber impelled by naked hunger who feels the dreamed-
of jewels in his hands and the force of the curse already slowly curdling his
blood. The sea wind had risen with the dark, and its great cold layer
surrounded me as soon as I came out onto the heath; I wrapped myself in
my sea cloak; at the end of the dock a cluster of little lights was flickering
around the Redoubtable, whose lanterns were being set: a forgelike red
glow flared now and again under its puffs of smoke and sent icy black
reflections along the coal heap, like a damned dawn. I quickly shook hands
with Roberto and Giovanni in the darkness—the indistinct faces made their
voices sound shorter and lower—someone shouted “good trip!” in a voice
which the night’s freshening wind blew out like a torch. Everything was
black on the bridge; under my feet I felt the ship’s faint tremor, its blind
force which was already boring through the dark. The Redoubtable gently
backed away from the dock; a gleam of calm water widened in front of the
quay, a chain clanked on the stones of the jetty—already, the idle voices
there were being severed from us. A darker mass rose up in front of me
toward the bow—I tried to see what it was and did not recognize Fabrizio,
frozen at attention, his huge oilskin cloak bunched up around him, seeming
to rivet him to the deck; the cold black smell of coal suddenly reached me
on a puff of wind, then a brutal shower swept away the few remaining lights
as if a curtain had been drawn, and the opaque night enveloped us.
OceanofPDF.com

9
An Expedition
On a night so charged with the likelihood of a storm, the sea off Syrtes was
unrecognizable. Though we were still in the lee of the sandbars, the waves
were already swelling with a long, black rhythm, evidently of remote
origin, its very slackness menacing among the disheveled reeds. A cold
wind, pure as if it had passed over snow-fields, grew chillier by the
moment, slapping the Redoubtable amidships, one harsh blow after the
next. And through this chaos of whistlings, pitchings and scrapings, our
black shadow slid alongside like a clearing of silence. A dim light bathed
the bridge; the movements of the men of the watch were numbed by the
densities of water. Next to me, Fabrizio maintained a statue’s silence,
occasionally touching his delicate instrument with a pianist’s fingers. His
incomprehensible and precise gesticulation fixed my gaze in this jumbled
darkness, like the arabesques of a surgeon’s hand wandering above his field
of white linen. Suddenly Fabrizio turned his head and spoke to me in a
voice whose warm-hearted simplicity restored my own strength—the way it
feels when blood flows back into your face—and I realized that this sweat-
drenched countenance before me was smiling.
“It’s the narrows ... Scared, Aldo? Well, if Marino hadn’t brought me out
here once, I’d say we were in over our heads.”
I stared back, stunned. “You’d never seen the new channel before?”
He lay one hand on my arm. “Now that we’re through ... I didn’t want to
tell you,” he added, in a lower voice. “I wanted to come.”
I looked at him again, with curiosity this time, my eyes squinting against
the wind, while he turned his head away. It seemed to me that the Admiralty
was suddenly falling far behind, lost on the horizon somewhere on the other
side of that wall of fog.

“You can go down for a rest now,” he added, his voice tense. He
squeezed my arm, and I guessed he was smiling in the dark. “I’m taking
over now. Everything will be all right.”
It was cold and damp in Marino’s cabin. I finally managed to light the
lantern that began swaying in the ceiling, shifting sleepy shadows across the
tiny room. I stretched out on the berth without taking off my clothes. I could
hear a faint sound of rushing water that seemed to come from a great
distance into this confined space, yet its persistence kept me from sleeping,
like a finger scratching at the porthole. Marino’s sea cloak beat
monotonously against the wall. On the ceiling compass my eye
mechanically followed the Redoubtable’s sinuous trajectory through the
straits: the distant engines throbbed faintly, with the endless halts and
gradual resumptions of a night train: as if the emptiness and ennui of the
motionless plains around us had annexed this vacant sea to themselves, this
close and dusty cabin with its sweetish smell of petroleum, like some
abandoned lamp-works. For a moment the memory of the Aldobrandi
palace, its doors open to the damp night, recurred to me like a scent of
flowers in the darkness, and I pressed my lips against Vanessa’s loose hair
which the night seized and swelled in our bed like the tide playing with a
clump of kelp. Then I rolled my cloak around me and began a gloomy vigil.
I pushed back the bunch of dried flowers and the volumes of Nautical
Instructions on the little table and unrolled the bundle of maps. Seeing once
again, under the cabin’s dirty yellow light, those contours which had
become so familiar to me, I experienced a feeling of unreality, so strange
did it seem that these armed symbols, which I had interrogated so long in
the depths of their underground reliquary, were now here, unfolded, for use.
Fabrizio was following the coastal channels; I consulted my watch,
estimating the ship’s speed, and touched the place on the map where we
must be by now: almost exactly abeam of Maremma. I pushed open the
porthole, taking the incredulous pleasure of a child testing the mechanism
of a new toy: a gust of wind dashed at my face and shoulders, like a pack of
dogs struggling behind the door; at the farthest reach of the horizon, on the

edge of the vast inky tillage which flung its glistening clods past my eyes, a
rough semicircle of lights ringed the guarded water like the floats of a seine:
the pacifying lights of Maremma, gentle as the open eyes of a corpse,
mounting their sleepy guard over the tamed sea. The screw throbbed more
faintly, the Redoubtable’s whistle exploded above me, terrifying and
ludicrous in the midst of this black void, like a single elephant, trunk raised,
trumpeting in a clearing; the ship turned gently, the lights of Maremma
shifted faster and faster to starboard; now there was nothing left but sea and
sky, imperceptibly clearer above the black water.
I gazed at that sky gradually diluted by the dawn, as though brushed
beneath the horizon’s farthest edge by the palpitation of a faint fan of light.
The night which had risen for the first time over Syrtes recurred to my
memory: like a mist leveling off mountains and valleys, its indistinct folds
concealed the adventitious land. Orsenna was transmigrating, evaporating
in this dust of stars by which Fabrizio was reading our route. They gleamed
inexhaustible and undeterred. For a new night after so many nights,
Orsenna was sprawling in the bed of its stars, dissolving at ease in the
figure of its constellations, entrusted wholly, like a dead planet, to sidereal
intimacy and inertia. I remembered an odd remark Orlando had made, on
one of those stifling evenings of summer’s end when we were trying to get
a breath of air on the rampart walks: that on the calmest nights in a foreign
place one could hear the warm breathing of an animal, the singular beating
of a heart, but that on Orsenna’s clear nights our consciousness became that
of a child at the breast, so that we could catch the humming of the spheres.
A rougher pitching of the ship sent Marino’s cloak sliding to the floor
beside me, and I realized I was smiling: I sensed how soundly on this night
our captain must be sleeping.
The Redoubtable had resumed its regular and sleepy course; beneath my
porthole, which was quite close to the stern, the water was furrowing a deep
trough the length of the hull, standing out from the ship’s side as from a
ploughshare. Darkness concealed the flat shore, though it was still so close I
could hear a dog barking: the shepherds sometimes abandoned for weeks at

a time these creatures the solitude reduced to half-savagery as they
wandered up and down the beaches. The desolate howling rose high in the
calm night air, interrupted by uneven silences, as if seeking an answer from
the depths of this wilderness, an echo that never came. I recognized that cry.
The walls of the Aldobrandi palace had sent it back to me: it was not a cry
of fear, it was not a call for help, but it passed high above our heads, and the
plains of the sea would not muffle it. It was the lofty moan of a being who
falters on the brink of the void, the naked provocation rising at the heart of
every desert, even the habitable one of Orsenna. Vanessa’s smile, that smile
of a fallen angel which seemed to float upon vertigo, suddenly appeared to
me in the harsh accents of this wandering lament: what remained for me to
do, I would now do.
Once again I sat down at the table and carefully began measuring certain
distances on the sea maps. However routine, however automatic I strove to
make this task, I was nonetheless astonished to find the distances I was
measuring so slight—as if the shores of that closed sea had shrunk in a
semicircle before our prow, suddenly almost within arm’s reach, and all at
once I seemed to understand, to recall my reveries in the map room, how
Orsenna’s somnolence and the loosened grip of its hand had finally
drowned even the closest frontiers in distant mists: there is a scale of
actions which, to the resolute eye, brutally contracts the spaces distended by
dreaming. Farghestan had raised before me the shoals of dream, the
fabulous beyond of a forbidden sea; now it was a steep fringe of rocky
coast, two days’ sail from Orsenna. The final temptation, the irremediable
temptation, was taking shape in this tangible phantom, in this sleeping prey
beneath fingers already open.
When memory takes me back—raising for a moment the nightmare veil
which hangs over the embers of my destroyed country—to that vigil when
so many things were held in suspense, I can still feel the fascination of the
intoxicating mental speed which seemed to consume the seconds and
minutes, and I momentarily recover the still singular conviction that consent
had been granted—or rather its grimacing parody—to penetrate the secrets

of those moments which reveal the inspired to themselves. Even today,
when I examine my hateful history, in default of a justification which
everything denies me, seeking at least a pretext to ennoble an exemplary
disaster, it sometimes occurs to me that a nation’s history is occasionally
strewn, as by black stones, with certain figures of darkness, figures doomed
to a special execration less for an excess of perfidy or betrayal than for the
faculty which distance in time seems to give them—the faculty to dissolve
until they actually unite their substance with the public agony or the
irreparable action which they have entirely assumed beyond what is usually
considered human capacity. As for these shadowy figures whose contours
and personal singularities time powerfully erodes faster than all others, the
universal violence of such repudiation tells us that it partakes—much more
than the colorless civic blame dispensed by history books—of the obsessive
character of remorse, and that it reopens the wound of a complicity
intimately experienced; this is because the force which drives these haunted
figures toward the margins of history, where the light falls more obliquely,
is that of an invalid beset by delirious dreams who feels not a freezing
moral obligation but the grip of a fever wasting his blood: the need to
deliver himself from evil. Such men have not been guilty, perhaps, of
anything but a particular docility to what an entire nation—exhausted after
the fact by having put in their hands, on the scene of the crime, the weapon
of the crime—refuses to acknowledge: that it has nonetheless for a moment
incarnated its will in them; the spontaneous withdrawal which isolates them
betrays not so much their personal infamy as the multiform source of the
energy which has momentarily transmuted them into projectiles. More
closely woven into the very substance of a whole people than if they were
its cast shadow, such men are truly its damned souls; the half-religious
terror which makes them loom larger than life derives from the revelation,
of which they are the vehicle, that at any moment a condenser can intervene
through which millions of scattered and unacknowledged desires are
monstrously embodied as will. The gaze which passes through these figures
is lost at a depth where one fears to read what can be seen; the fascination
they exert proceeds from our suspicion that the privileged communication

they have been granted has raised them, for the few seconds it was worth
the trouble of being, to a supreme instance of life: we bob like corks on a
seething ocean which at every moment exceeds us, but a moment of the
world in the full light of consciousness has culminated in them—the stormy
world of millions of scattered detonations has discharged them in a vast
flash of brilliance; their universe, converging from all directions upon them
around a passage in which we imagine that profound security is inextricably
mingled with anguish, has been for a second that of the bullet in the rifle
barrel.
The still-open porthole clanged loudly against the wall, as if the ship had
suddenly changed direction; as I turned around to secure it, I saw that the
sky had paled at the horizon. The wind had almost completely fallen, the
sea was calmer, here and there big black cormorants were rocking on the
waves quite close to the ship. Dense flocks of sea birds were flying
overhead, crying as they passed like showers of stones, and leaning out I
saw silhouetted on the horizon a tall black fang: we were in sight of
Vezzano. This was the limit Marino had assigned for the patrol runs: it was
time to rejoin Fabrizio on the bridge. At this hour of earliest morning—as in
a city on land—the labyrinth of corridors remained surprisingly empty; a
lifeless pallor, which seemed to seep from the metal walls, dimmed the faint
halo of the night lamps: I seemed to be floating like a shadow at the center
of the gray ship, of the gray day, of the gray sea, my heart subdued in this
grim expanse of first dawn.
Fabrizio was alone on the bridge. His small head with its boyish face
seemed to swim in the huge hood of his sea cloak; his features drawn by a
night’s watch made him look even younger. He turned toward me at a creak
of the stairs and watched me emerge from the hatchway without a word, his
forehead creased in an expression of ill-feigned surprise, and I realized that
he had been expecting me.
“There’s some hot coffee in the chest under there,” he said without
turning around when I had come up to him. “You’d better have some,” he

added when I didn’t move. “These early mornings off Syrtes are chilly ...
Did you have a good night?”
He was staring very meaningfully at the horizon ahead of the ship, his
voice eager to fill the silence. He was like a girl who both dreads and longs
for a declaration, and I suddenly felt more comfortable.
I sipped my coffee, in no hurry now, and stealthily glanced at him from
time to time. His eyes were fixed on the horizon, but his Adam’s apple kept
moving up and down in his throat, and the nervousness of his hands
betrayed him. “... Vezzano!” he said in a throaty exclamation, quickly
pointing to the island whose peak was emerging from a faint bank of mist
floating over the sea, a sharp serration against the clearing sky.
“Of ill repute ... !” I took my time and carefully swallowed another
mouthful of coffee. “... But they say you get a fine view from up there.” I
glanced at Fabrizio again out of the corner of my eye, and I think I saw him
blush. The ship was pitching in a faint oily swell; the sea birds’ cries as they
circled in dense flocks round Vezzano were furrowing the dawn, resuming
possession of the sea with the daylight.
“Maybe. Not this morning, in any case, with all this mess in the air.”
Fabrizio gestured with his chin at the fraying mist. “... Have you ever been
up there for a look?” he added in a tone of ill-feigned indifference.
“You’d have heard, surely ... I don’t happen to have a gunboat of my
own. But I was thinking maybe you ...”
“Never.”
“I thought you were so fond of excursions ...”
“Never seen Syrtes from higher than the bridge. Marino has no taste for
vantage points,” he added, shooting me a collusive glance for the first time,
but one I recognized: it was the look which prefaced our asides over the
fortress dinner table, when Marino began dozing off.
“Not everyone may feel as he does, back in Orsenna,” I said in a tone I
tried to make significant. No one at the Admiralty, I knew, was unaware of
the arrival of my secret instructions.

Once again Fabrizio shot me a quick glance. Silence fell again. He was
breathing faster: I could guess that he was weighing this serious bit of news.
“Going to have to bring her around,” Fabrizio murmured between his teeth,
using Marino’s peasant accent, as if he were eager to exorcize, to discharge
the ritual of its effectiveness.
The phrase lingered in the silence, meaningless as a puff of smoke;
Fabrizio’s hands were so utterly indifferent to it that they left the wheel and
carelessly lit a cigarette.
“It’s good to be at sea, Aldo, on a nice cool morning like this ...” He
stretched his arms voluptuously. “It’s always so stuffy in the Admiralty ...
You have the maps?” he added deliberately, indicating the roll I was holding
under my arm. I handed it to him without a word. “... The patrol run ...” he
announced in a pedagogic tone, running his finger along a dotted line. “It’s
quite difficult keeping inside it, Aldo, you can imagine,” he added,
sweeping the empty sea with an emphatic gesture, for Vezzano was already
quite far behind us. “Marino can feel it—he’s had enough experience to
have it in his blood, but I need to take my bearings.”
“And there aren’t many seamarks ...”
“That’s what I mean ... Actually, it’s all pretty much a fiction,” he broke
off with a knowing shrug, and the word sounded so odd in his mouth that
my extreme anxiety almost exploded in a burst of laughter. Silence fell
again. “All the same, I’m going to have to bring her around,” Fabrizio went
on with an impulse of authority, suddenly pretending to realize that Vezzano
was so far away.
“No hurry,” I said in a negligent tone, lighting a cigarette in my turn.
The ship was still making directly east; the sun, ahead of us, was rising
out of the sea in a cluster of brighter streaks.
“No, there’s no hurry ...” Fabrizio put his hands in the pockets of his sea
cloak and leaned against the partition, puffing feverishly on his cigarette.
“Absolutely none,” I concluded after a silence. And I leaned against the
same wall beside Fabrizio. Clumsily, feeling the seconds swallowed up and
time rushing down an irremediable slope, we both smiled blankly, blinking

in the sunlight rising out of the sea in front of us; the mist was dissolving,
and it promised to be a fine day. It seemed to me we had just pushed open
one of those doors you pass through in dreams. The stifling sense of a
happiness lost since childhood seized me; the horizon in front of us burst
into fragments of glory; as though caught in the current of a shoreless river,
it seemed to me that I was now utterly restored—a freedom, a miraculous
simplicity was washing the world; I saw the morning born for the first time.
“I was sure you were going to do it,” Fabrizio said, closing his hand on
my shoulder when—minutes rushing after minutes like the fathoms of a
sounding—there was no longer any doubt that the thing had now occurred
... “In God’s hands!” he added with a kind of enthusiasm. “I’d have hated to
miss this.”
The morning hours passed quickly. Toward ten, Beppo’s sleepy head
appeared in the hatchway. His astonished expression took in the empty
horizon, then turned back to us with a childish look of confusion and
worried curiosity, and I thought he was going to say something, but his face
suddenly assumed the nocturnal cornered look of some mole dazed by
daylight, and the news drained silently into the bowels of the ship. With an
absorbed expression Fabrizio plunged back into reading the maps. The
sleepy bridge grew warmer in the sunlight. A dozen slight heads were now
sticking out of the hatchway, eyes staring at their vision, nobody moving.
Fabrizio’s calculations coincided with mine: if the Redoubtable
maintained its present speed, we would be in sight of the Tängri by the end
of the afternoon. Fabrizio’s excitement was growing by the minute; orders
rained down. A lookout was sent up the foremast, and Fabrizio’s own
binoculars no longer left the horizon.
“Nothing fools you like an empty sea,” he answered knowingly when I
chaffed him. “And out here, it’s better to see before being seen ... We’ve got
to think of the consequences sometime.”
“We do?” I replied, deciding to provoke him with a hard look.
He laughed—a boy’s laugh, showing his big white teeth, the laugh of a
vigil of arms, and we went down together to get something to eat.

The afternoon passed in a kind of hysteria. Fabrizio’s abnormal
feverishness was that of a Robinson on his unmoored island, suddenly
leading a handful of Fridays. Marino, back at the Admiralty, retreated into
the mist. A little encouragement and Fabrizio would have run up the black
flag; his antics on deck, the constant neighs of his jubilant voice, were those
of a young colt frolicking in a field. The whole crew, hearing this voice,
functioned with a strange and almost alarming speed: from the bridge to the
masts, the vibration of strong, happy voices answered each other in chorus
and exploded in comical encouragements and shouts of good humor;
through the whole ship ran a crackling of anarchic energy which had in it
something of the rebellion of a convict ship or a boarding party, and this
excitement went to our heads like wine, sending our wake flying over the
waves, the ship shivering to its keel with a jubilation that had no content. A
cauldron suddenly seethed beneath me: there was no need to announce that
the lid had just been taken off.
But this feverish animation did not extend to me, or rather it hummed at a
distance from me, like a stormy rumor high above which I felt myself
floating, in a calm ecstasy. It suddenly seemed as if I had been given the
power to pass beyond, to slip into a world filled with intoxication and
trembling. This world was the same, and this endless stretch of empty water
desperately resembled itself everywhere one looked. But now a silent grace
gleamed upon it. The intimate feeling that had drawn taut the thread of my
life had been that of an ever deeper aberration; starting from the broad ways
of childhood, when all of life closed over me like a warm embrace, it
seemed to me that gradually I had lost contact, turned away with the
passing days toward ever more solitary roads where at times, disoriented, I
stood still a moment and caught no more than the brief and lonely echo of a
nighttime street emptying of all traffic. I had made my way into absence,
straying in an ever dimmer countryside, far from the essential Rumor whose
uninterrupted throb rushed toward a cataract behind the horizon. And now
the inexplicable feeling of the right road made the blank and watery desert
bloom around me, as though at the outskirts of a city still in darkness
behind the remote horizon, in every direction wandering lights crossed their

beams; the vacillating horizon grew brilliant with the winking of
reconnaissance signals; a royal road was opening onto the sea paved with
beams like a ritual carpet; and, as inaccessible to our inmost senses as the
other side of the moon to the eye, it seemed to me that a promise and a
revelation had been offered of another pole where roads ran together instead
of diverging, and of an effective glance of the mind for which the globe
itself serves as an eye. The fugitive beauty of Vanessa’s face appeared in the
warm mist that rose over the calm sea—blinding light blazed in the
rediscovered hearth of thousands of glances that were focused upon me—a
rendezvous had been given me in this venturesome desert by each of the
voices of elsewhere whose timbre had created the silence in my ears, and
whose murmur mingled in me now like that of a gathered crowd behind a
door.
The afternoon was already darkening; the faint white gauze that blurs the
sky on hot days in Syrtes was dissolving now, restoring to the air a
marvellous transparency. A more oblique light glazed the soft, slow
undulations of a silken sea; an enchanted calm seemed to linger on the
water like a scarf, paving our way across the waves. The ship moved into
the evening’s heart over a sea decked out as though for one of its great
festivities, tiny now and dissolved into the immense reverberation of space,
almost imperceptible in the unexpected signal, the indecipherable omen of
its smoke rising from the sea after so many years—a long flexible plume
that indolently dissolved its agitated spirals into the air.
“I’m going to shut down the engines,” Fabrizio said with some concern:
“that kind of smoke is a provocation. Besides, it’s better to keep our
distance till nightfall, if ...” His glance was clearly a question. The ghostly
solemnity of that late afternoon was affecting him, sobering him, and for the
first time I heard a kind of grave meditation in his voice.
“Yes,” I answered confidently, “I’ll take care of it.”
“Look!” he exclaimed, suddenly grabbing my arm, his voice little more
than a whisper.

A thread of smoke was rising ahead of us on the horizon, distinctly
visible against the sky already darkening in the east. A strange and
motionless column, it seemed pasted on the sky, its base like a string drawn
taut, thickening as it rose, and suddenly forming a flat and smoky corolla,
throbbing softly on the air and gradually erased by the wind. This viscous
smoke scarcely bespoke a ship; sometimes it resembled the thread rising
into the evening air from a dying fire, yet one could tell it was singularly
intense; a malefic impression emanated from its shape, like the incurled
umbel of certain poisonous mushrooms. And like them it seemed to have
grown, to have taken possession of the horizon with an amazing rapidity;
suddenly it had been there; its very immobility, deceptive against the
evening’s grisaille, must have long concealed it from our gaze. By carefully
studying the point on the horizon where the smoke originated, I thought I
could discern, above the bank of fog which was forming once again, a
double filament of shadow I recognized by the sudden leap of my heart.
“That’s the Tängri ... there!” I almost shouted at Fabrizio, with an emotion
so sudden that I dug my fingers into his shoulder.
He glanced feverishly at the map, then stared at the horizon in his turn
with an expression of incredulous curiosity.
“Yes,” he said after a moment’s silence, in a voice which slowly mastered
his stupefaction, as if he had not dared believe it. “That’s the Tängri. But
what’s the smoke?”
There was the same uneasiness in his voice that I felt in myself: a note of
alarm. Yes, for all it might signify of what was only natural, explicable in
the most ordinary terms, it was disorienting to see that unsuspected column
of smoke rising now above the long-extinct volcano. Its plume, wavering as
it faded in the freshening breeze, seemed to darken the sky more than the
night itself, to cast an evil spell on this unknown sea; more than another
eruption after so many others, it suggested rains of blood, statues that broke
out in a sweat, a black flag raised on that giant staff on the eve of a plague
or a deluge.

“It’s extinct,” Fabrizio murmured to himself, as though confronted by a
riddle that was beyond him. All his gaiety had abruptly collapsed. The
rising wind sent us a first faint squall; suddenly it was cold on the bridge. A
last flock of birds flying west passed over us, shrieking; the empty sky was
already darkening around the mysterious smoke.
“Let’s not go any farther,” Fabrizio said, grasping my wrist abruptly. “I
don’t like that volcano going to all this trouble for our visit ... Do you know
where we are?” he added in a frightened voice, holding out the map. The
finger that landed on it was already well past the red line: behind that
sinister vanguard, like a silent wave, the coasts of Farghestan rushed toward
us from all directions.
I met his eyes, and for an instant I felt my will hesitate. In Fabrizio’s
suddenly awed voice, the omens produced on the threshold of this wicked
night reverberated like a direr warning; the fallen fever of the afternoon left
me uncertain, my heart heavy. It seemed to me that a veil had been torn;
Fabrizio’s recoil left me face to face with the naked folly of our escapade.
“What will he say?”
“Marino, you mean?” I inquired mildly—too mildly, and all at once I felt
a cold rage rising within me: I realized with what persistent and ceaseless
cunning I had done nothing but stave off that name all night long.
“... What a bore, my boy,” I whistled between my teeth: “we always take
cover behind that name whenever we’re frightened.”
Now, I had denied him; now, and only now, everything had been said, the
way was free, the night lay open before us. Fabrizio understood everything,
and then a remarkable thing occurred: he let go of the helm a moment, and
all of a sudden, as if he had been alone, he crossed himself, the way a man
wards off a curse.
“Marino’s not afraid ...” he murmured in a faltering voice.
“Take her East! And increase speed!” I shouted into Fabrizio’s ear
against the rising wind. “The darkness will cover us—if we stoke up before
daylight, we’ll be out of sight ...” But it was as if my voice had been

swallowed in my throat or all his reflexes delayed; Fabrizio was like a man
walking in his sleep.
“You know what you’re doing, Aldo,” he whispered in a childish voice,
half scared, half tender. “But now it’s all changed,” he added, getting up
with a determined expression. “I have to give orders.”
In the gathering darkness the crew took their combat posts. The faces that
passed before me in the shifting gleam of a lantern gained a clumsy dignity
from the unwonted ceremony: Fabrizio called them up one by one and
assigned them their duties in a firm voice; performing such a ritual on the
Redoubtable dated back to the mists of time, and no one remembered how
to behave.
“Think it’s anything serious, Beppo?” a perplexed figure murmured
beneath me.
“Don’t worry about it,” cut in a teasing voice. “After the next watch,
you’ll be close enough to see for yourself.”
“Not a minute too soon. There’s a little too much doing over there. The
sea belongs to everyone, as they say at the Signory. The old Redoubtable’s
going to get a little air too ...”
There was a murmur of eager approval.
“No, no, not like that—you have to open the breech first, peasant!”
someone grumbled quite distinctly in the forecastle, amid smothered
laughter.
Silence fell again.
“You saw how they lit their pipe,” a remote voice concluded. “Going to
be a hot one.”
Fabrizio came back beside me on the bridge, whistling as if to raise his
spirits in the dark, but I divined in this young and easygoing creature a new
burst of confidence: he was in command of the Redoubtable and
confronting a possible danger, and the ardor and good humor of his men
had cheered him up. “I’ll answer for them,” he said, “we’ll open their eyes.
Lucky it’s going to be a dark night,” he continued, gradually reassuring

himself: “that limits the risks. And then—it’s our best chance—they must
have got out of the habit of being nosy.”
The smoke had long since melted into the dark sky. Huge clouds were
rising over the horizon in heavy spirals, dissolved at the sea’s edge in a
vestige of livid twilight.
“Now tell me, Aldo,” he continued hesitantly, “maybe it isn’t any of my
business, but what is it you want to see over there at such close range?”
I opened my mouth to answer, but my voice seemed to have been choked
in my throat, and I began smiling distractedly in the dark. Close to me as a
brother, there yet were no words to tell him what Marino or a woman in
love would have understood at a glance. What I wanted had no name in any
language. To be closer. Not to remain cut off. To consume myself in that
light. To touch ... “Nothing,” I told him. “Just a reconnaissance mission.”
The ship was churning ahead without a single light. The clouds, which
had mounted very high in the sky, were hiding the moon. Fabrizio was not
mistaken; luck was with us. My thoughts flew ahead of the ship boring
through that inky partition; it seemed to me I could feel the hidden peak
rising over us behind that suspect darkness, and with an impulse I couldn’t
control my hands kept making the gesture of a man who gropes toward a
wall in the dark.
“Two more hours and we’re there,” Fabrizio said in a sleepy voice ...
“Too bad we won’t have a view—there’s a full moon behind those clouds
...”
Behind his commanding-officer’s calm, I could tell he was as tense as I
was. Beneath us, drowned in the shadows, the vigilant crew kept a profound
silence, but their wide-open eyes were magnetizing the darkness; in this
secret advance upon the unknown, the whole ship was being charged with a
subtle electricity.
Fabrizio plunged back into his maps with a preoccupied expression: the
last part of our expedition was raising a difficult problem for him. An
uneven line of reefs, which the maps didn’t account for very specifically,
guarded the approaches to the Tängri, and memories at Orsenna had not

faded of losses suffered there by squadrons returning from the great reprisal
expedition. I myself went to double the watch on the foreposts, where a
man stood ready to take soundings. For several minutes I stayed there
leaning over the bow, lashed in the cold wind that smelled of snow and stars
and seemed to pour in icy layers from the inaccessible peak, trying to smell
in it the hints of the approaching shore, but the night seemed to have no end
to it: nothing but the inexhaustible hiss under the bow and that otherworldly
wind, that draught of bitter cold which carried the moan of ice floes on its
breath. The rhythm of this guesswork navigation was lulling me to sleep; I
rocked in those last minutes of calm and pure expectation, my empty mind
all at once strangely porous to a subtler concert and to indecipherable
coincidences. The earth’s familiar signs seemed to have withdrawn to a
great distance, yet important omens exchanged their symbols in the cloudy
air. All my life since leaving Orsenna seemed to me guided and
recomposed, during this flight into darkness, transformed into symbols
which spoke to me out of the depths of the night. I saw again the rooms of
the Aldobrandi palace, their arrogant patience, their moldy void suddenly
roused ... Behind me the torrent of smoke our stack belched out was
dispersed by the night like a blacker veil. I saw again the phantom gesture
our fortress had suddenly recreated upon the waters. I thought of this
mysteriously reanimated volcano ... My face rinsed by that cold bath, thrust
deep in a darkness that dissolved all contours, I pulled myself together,
summoning up all my blind being, and identified myself with my Hour,
abandoned myself to an ineffable immunity.
Towards one in the morning, there was a sudden calm: we were in the lee
of the volcano. A heavy, stagnant moisture enveloped us, the ship slid on
noiseless over an oily sea; in this oppressive silence that seemed to cast a
shadow at the very heart of the night, the enormous mass rushed toward us,
even more overwhelming than in broad daylight.
“Keep a close watch!” rang out Fabrizio’s tense voice in the excessively
calm darkness.

The ship reduced speed, the brighter wake under the bow subsided;
suddenly a slow, warm gust spread around us a scent at once pungent and
sweet, like the smell of an oasis diluted by the desert’s parching air. The
night was gradually brightening: overhead the masses of cloud seemed to be
rapidly disintegrating, and a few stars shone, infinitely remote and pure in
their intensely black lacerations, which the moon now fringed with a milky
halo.
“Aldo!” Fabrizio called in a low voice. I rejoined him on the bridge. “...
The storm is passing,” he whispered, pointing to the already clearer sky. “If
the moon comes out, in one minute it’s going to be clear as day. Did you
smell the orange trees?” he asked, shaking his head. “We’re almost in reach
of land ... You want to turn back?”
I cut him off with a shake of the head. At this moment, throat dry as
though in the presence of a coveted body gradually revealed in the
darkness, every nerve roused to famished expectation, I could not speak.
“All right!” Fabrizio sounded relieved, almost cheerful in spite of
himself. “It’s suicide, and I had to give you fair warning. May God help us
...”
He reduced speed still further, and calmly, meticulously, verified a few
calculations one last time. I glanced at him now and then: frowning with
attention and self-importance he stuck out his tongue like a schoolboy. An
extraordinary childhood seemed evident in all his features, erasing all signs
of exhaustion and sleeplessness, and an exalted sentiment of victory
suddenly seized me; the face I was carrying with me into my dream would
live as never before. “You want to turn back now, Fabrizio?” I asked,
staring ahead of the ship and gently laying my hand on his arm.
“I don’t know any more,” he said with a little giggle which betrayed all
his nervous agitation ... “You’re the devil!” he added, turning his eyes away,
and without looking up I could tell he was smiling. The lash of a squall
made the deck plates rattle, suddenly whipping the bridge and blinding us,
yet at the very heart of this brutal gust the darkness was thinning out as if,
very high up behind it, the reflector of some giant lamp had delicately

pulverized its shower of light. The rain stopped, the ship shuddered in the
calm, swathed in a light mist; in front of the bow, the clouds parted rapidly,
like a theater curtain.
“The volcano! The volcano!” thirty throats shouted in a single choking
cry, the shout that rises from a collision or an ambush.
In front of us, within arm’s reach it seemed, from the movement of recoil
which tipped back my head toward that terrifying peak, an apparition rose
out of the sea like a wall. The moon was shining now in all its luster. To the
right, the forest of lights at Rhages fringed the sleeping water with a
motionless shimmer. In front of us, like an illuminated ocean liner which
up-ends its stern before sinking, there swung above the sea at a fabulous
height a fragment of earth raised like a lid, a vertical suburb, riddled, tiered,
scattered to starry fixity with burning bushes and girandoles of light. Like
the torches of a great facade peacefully reflected on the gleaming pavement,
but on a level with the clouds, and seeming so close, so distinct in the rain-
washed air that we were certain we smelled the sopping gardens and the
varnished freshness of their dewy paths, the lights of the avenues, of the
villas, of the palaces, of the crossroads thinned out to the fires of outlying
suburbs clinging to their lava slopes, rose in the night interspersed by
landings, by cliffs, by balconies over the gently phosphorescent sea, drawn
out to a horizontal line of floating mist which yellowed and blurred the last
gleams and occasionally let one or another reappear higher still and almost
improbable, as an alpinist reappears in the field of the binoculars,
momentarily hidden by an outcrop of the glacier he is scaling. Like a
pedestal, the sparkling and truncated pyramid of an altar where the figure of
the god culminates in the penumbra, the tree of lights ended at that uneven
edge. And very high, very far above this black void, rising at a verticality
which overhung our heads so that we had to lean back to see, pasted against
the sky like an obscene and greedy leech, there emerged from a foam of
nothingness a kind of emblem of the end of time, a bluish horn of a milky
and faintly effulgent substance which seemed to float, motionless and
forever alien, final, like a strange concretion of the air itself. The silence

around this apparition which demanded a cry of recognition agonized the
ear, as if suddenly air had revealed itself to be opaque to the transmission of
sound, or again, facing this star-studded wall, it suggested the sickening and
soft fall of nightmares in which the world collapses and the shriek above us
of a mouth inexhaustibly open never reaches our ears.
“The Tängri!” Fabrizio murmured, pale as wax, digging his nails into my
wrist, as though facing one of those exceptional powers whose very name is
a prayer and which we may only recognize and call upon by name.
“Straight ahead! Closer!” I murmured in his ear in a voice which sounded
strangely guttural and harsh to me.
But it had not even occurred to Fabrizio to turn the helm. It was too late
now—later than anything. A spell already glued us to this magnetic
mountain. An extraordinary, illuminated expectation, the certainty that the
last veil would fall, paralyzed these desperate minutes. With every nerve
strained, the black arrow of the ship flew toward the illuminated giant.
“Full speed ahead!” Fabrizio shouted, beside himself.
The ship vibrated in each piece of its hull—the bow which rose above the
horizon with each minute already silhouetted black against the nearing
lights, the coast rushed toward us, motionlessly enlarging like a ship being
stoked. No, nothing could touch us now—luck was with us, the sea empty;
not one light moved in front of Rhages, which seemed asleep. The radiant
curtain shimmering on the shore protected us, dissolved our black shadow
into the night. A minute, another minute in which centuries pass, to see and
to touch one’s longing, welded to that final leap of speed, to dissolve in that
dazzling onset, to be consumed in that light rising out of the sea.
Suddenly, to our right, toward Rhages, the shore vibrated with the hurried
nictitation of heat flashes. A heavy, almost musical rustle lacerated the air
over the ship and, waking the mountain’s cavernous thunder, we heard the
echo of three cannon shots.
OceanofPDF.com

10
The Envoy
Standing near the bow to catch the first coolness, I watched the coast of
Syrtes grow larger in the dawn. Its yellow beaches still swept with lingering
mists and lying quite flat on the horizon, it looked to me sullen and paltry in
the faint light, more disinherited than usual and burdened now with my
sudden disillusionment. My heart was heavy; it seemed to me that the
Redoubtable was growing heavier and lagging over this flat sea, as if it had
taken tons of water into its hold. God be thanked, we were bringing the ship
back intact. With an instinctive swerve, Fabrizio had avoided the shots, and
a sudden cloud passing across the moon had enabled our escape. The
unexpected composure of our cannoneers, or perhaps their stupor, by
preventing them from replying, had avoided the worst. Yet the very
incoherence of this rapid engagement continued to intrigue me. It was
surprising—though Orsenna’s negligence in this respect may have exceeded
all bounds—that on the opposing shore they had kept watch so stubbornly
and so attentively. Surprising too that on such a dark night, Rhages had felt
no need to ascertain the identity of a suspect silhouette—as if they had
known what to expect from the first. No reconnaissance signal had
preceded the firing, and the more I thought about it the stranger it seemed
that at that minimal distance, the shots which had immediately surrounded
us should have proved so ineffectual. Fabrizio’s dexterity, on reflection,
could not blind me to the fact: this reprimand all too complacently
underlined a nuance of mockery and disdain, and that accommodating shot
which had ended by provoking our crew’s relieved laughter did not reassure
me. I couldn’t help relating the rumors current in Maremma about the
machinations at Rhages to this ineffectual cannonade. Ineffectual? I found
myself shaking my head; I needed to know just what it was they had
wanted, over there... .

I stared anxiously at the little group which our return, signaled from a
distance, had already gathered on the dock; more than anything at this
moment, I was afraid of being left alone with Marino. He wasn’t there, and
I felt suddenly relieved.
“Run her aground on a sandbar, boy?” Giovanni shouted to Fabrizio good
humoredly, taking his pipe out of his mouth while the hawsers were being
thrown.
The joke was a ritual. So early in the morning, his hunting rifle was
already hanging from his shoulder; the inexpressible monotony of
Admiralty life suddenly flowed back over me.
“We had some problems,” Fabrizio said, crestfallen and embarrassed in
front of his men. “I’ll explain later.”
The groups thinned out, casual and benumbed, the men strolling down
the dock and tossing pebbles into the water. Our little cluster was walking
in front, and in spite of myself I listened for voices from the groups
including our crew; reticent and abashed, in no hurry to tell the news, the
men kept to themselves: it was as if this return bewildered them. Giovanni
and Roberto said nothing, surprised that we did too, and so much silence
weighed heavily... .
“We went over there,” I said abruptly. “They fired at us.”
Giovanni and Roberto stopped short, mouths open, and stared at me with
sleepy eyes. “Over there? ...” Giovanni echoed finally in an almost natural
tone of voice, recalling his famous imperturbability of our nights on watch
—but Fabrizio came to my rescue.
“Aldo had his reasons,” he added dryly, cutting explanations short.
A wave of diplomatic discretion passed almost naively over those tanned
faces. The time we had spent at Syrtes suddenly revealed itself on these
faces: the Signory’s reasons of State still warmed them to a ready-made
veneration.
“Cursed dogs!” Giovanni grumbled between his teeth, pulling his pipe
out of his mouth. There was an accent of suitable condolence in his voice,

but I was surprised and heartened to see how much milder their
consternation was than I had expected.
“You went over there ... ?” Roberto repeated, incredulous. “Tell ... !” he
added, taking my arm with a conspiratorial expression as he eagerly pushed
open the common-room door.
Story and questions were endless. I felt remarkably comfortable. It was
immediately obvious that reasons were of no interest to Giovanni and
Roberto—they had no thought of asking for an accounting. With them I
advanced into a sort of fairy tale whose origins, in their haste to get to the
results, they immediately put in parentheses; and rather than rob the
adventure of its enchantment, it was as if Roberto and Giovanni wanted
instead to join in, to take part in the game, to be with us. Any allusion to
Marino was avoided as wet blanket; it was as if he had never set foot in the
Admiralty. Gently, joining hands, we removed the obstacles, the
embarrassing images, freeing the slope down which we wanted to slide. At
the descriptions of the Tängri, I saw their eyes light up with a new-minted
curiosity. Roberto sketched out a few critical considerations as to the
Farghestan artillery. Above all it was agreed, with many knowing nods, that
their firing at us without a challenge was “unprecedented.” Fabrizio realized
we could say whatever we liked, and put the last touches to the “victory” by
an unexpected inspiration: “Great idea you had, Roberto, getting the
fortress back in shape. As if you saw it coming.”
“I’ve always mistrusted anything from over there,” Roberto conceded
prophetically, and while pretending to suck on his pipe he blushed with
modest satisfaction. I realized I was going to leave the room whitewashed
—better still, glorified.
“Well, the wine is poured, it has to be drunk,” Giovanni said, raising his
glass with a sort of gaiety. “They got what they wanted. You can be sure
they won’t stop there!”
Roberto’s pipe enveloped him in a Jupiterian cloud; squinting, he peered
out the window at the horizon, suddenly an idol of penetrating sagacity; in
Marino’s absence the command of the Admiralty fell to him. “I wouldn’t be

too surprised if they repaid our little visit tonight,” he finally conceded in a
tone heavy with secret knowledge. “It’s clouding over—good weather for a
surprise ... Only between now and then, I’ll take a few precautions.”
“Have to,” Giovanni concluded in the approving silence. “The
Admiralty’s wide open ...” and we were all filled with the energetic
consciousness that we were not protected.
Thereupon he opened a little council of war to which I listened without
saying a word, benumbed as I was by a sensation of growing unreality at
seeing how matters followed their own course. Roberto proposed
emergency measures. Fabrizio leafed through the regulations. On its own,
having escaped my fingers, the spool I had loosed was unwinding... .
It was decided to leave the Redoubtable’s steam up; a night watch would
be set on top of the fortress. This afternoon Roberto, without making any
particular show of his actions, would inspect the old coastal battery—
dilapidated as it was—which commanded the channel mouth (the fortress
artillery had long been out of commission) and report on its equipment.
Finally, they would unmoor one of those pinnaces rotting in the mud flats
and use it to keep a night watch on the approaches to the channel. Though
there was no lack of enthusiasm the apprehension of Marino’s return, which
vaguely damaged their spirits, had discouraged more extreme measures: if
need be—this was everyone’s unavowed thought—the emergency watch
could easily be cancelled. Thus minute by minute a certain complicity was
established among the four of us.
“For the rest, the captain will decide,” Roberto concluded jesuitically.
“I’ll take the night patrol—instead of duck hunting ... !”
In incessant comings and goings between fortress, jetty and battery, the
day passed quickly enough. No one was bored at the Admiralty now. The
excitement had reached the men, and the snatches of their conversations we
could occasionally catch—for they fell silent more respectfully than before,
with a meaningful look, when officers passed by—suggested what
extravagant rumors had found credence, as if a sudden craving for the
unexpected and the unheard-of, long dormant in this monotonous life, had

exploded in these benumbed minds. Two or three times, in fact, questions
broke out as we passed, inquiries which Roberto eluded with half-closed,
mystery-fraught eyes; under this sky where suddenly, with a curiously
animal nose for it, they seemed to smell a storm rising, these reanimated
faces called for news, good or bad, as the earth calls for rain in its long
droughts.
Yet that night and the three next days passed quite calmly. The
excitement lessened. Marino was due back at the week’s end, and with each
new watch that turned out to be of no consequence, I saw Giovanni
returning more and more discouraged.
“I should have guessed,” he would say now, annoyed as a suitor who
finds his letters returned unopened. “They’re not only niggers but
numbskulls over there. You can do anything to people like that,” he added,
with a disgusted expression.
His imagination went no further than this compliment returned. Like
everyone at the Admiralty, Giovanni lived in the present, on the surface of
his skin. Orsenna’s ageless subsidence, patiently discouraging any sense of
responsibility and need for foresight, had modeled these old children into an
omnipotent and senile guardianship for which nothing could ever really
happen or be of any consequence. Any opportunities for diversion were
welcomed, but inevitably, one day or the next, these men would return to
their duck hunts.
During these agitated days, a very different concern had obsessed me.
Back in Marino’s office, which I occupied in his absence, no sooner had I
begun leafing through the routine stack of service papers, than suddenly, in
the lowering of the fever which had devoured the hours—as clear, as
perceptible as Marino’s face returning to this accusing room—the insanity
of my escapade rose up before me, so blinding that my eyes blurred and I
thought for a moment that my heart would stop beating. The muffled
silence of the room suddenly roared like the sea in my ears; after that night
so intensely experienced, my deed had been severed from me forever;
somewhere, very far away, with a faint and subtle rumble, a machine had

been started up which no one could ever stop: its distant hum penetrated the
close room, wakening that secluded silence like the murmur of bees.
“The wine is poured, it has to be drunk,” I repeated, nodding, terribly
sober now. My eyes fell on the pile of unopened mail which had been set on
the desk, and suddenly I realized I had to make a decision then and there.
To account to the Signory for so formal a violation of regulations would
be suicide; to pass over it in silence, even supposing the matter had no
consequences, would doubtless lead to an even more certain condemnation:
the entire Admiralty already knew. For a moment the situation seemed to
me so inescapable that I slumped over my desk, overcome by dizziness, and
with my head buried in my hands I prayed like a child for sleep, for the
oblivion which would transform this night into a bad dream, trying to
convince myself that somehow this nightmare would vanish away. All of a
sudden I saw a way out, and the vague hope, lacking absolution, of at least
a possible intelligence: I decided to request an audience from the Council of
Superintendence with regard to a serious matter upon which I desired to
furnish explanations in person.
That evening I went back to my room as soon as dinner was over: before
morning I had to prepare a text that was rather difficult to phrase properly. I
was playing a last card and couldn’t deceive myself I was playing it in the
dark. A misplaced word could ruin me, I was far from feeling comfortable,
and my work was not proceeding at all well. For a long time now, the
Admiralty had fallen silent around me; the faint scratching of my pen was
all that stitched the slow hours together with its shipworm’s sound—and the
rustle of the pages I tore up one after the next. It might have been eleven
o’clock when my door thumped gently, and I scarcely had time to raise my
head before someone was standing in front of me.
“It is very late, Signor Observer—no doubt much too late to request an
audience,” pronounced a foreign and rather musical voice.
In the darkness outside the circle of my lamp, it was hard to make out his
features. Before me stood a vigorous yet delicate figure; in his impulse to
approach my table there appeared that elastic and silent lightness generated

by the custom of desert life. The extremely simple and almost sordid
clothes he was wearing were those of the boatmen who take Sunday
strollers across the lagoons; they added something ludicrous to the extreme
distinction of his voice.
“It is really very late,” he continued, consulting upside down the watch
on my desk, and from a quite casual movement he made, I realized he was
deliberately lingering there to keep his profile against the light. Suddenly I
remembered, and my heart began pounding; that dark skin, those fixed and
piercing eyes—it was the boat-keeper from Sagra.
“This will tell you in whose name I have come,” he said, reading my
discovery in my eyes and suddenly changing his tone; without any further
invitation from me, and with an unconstraint which was not in the least
impolite, he sat down, with a faint sigh of fatigue.
I unfolded the paper he held out to me, and suddenly my eyes grew fixed.
The right-hand corner bore a serpent coiled around a chimera, just as I had
so often seen it at the Diplomatic Academy at the bottom of dusty age-old
treaties; the seal of the Chancellery of Rhages starred the sheet. The text
certified the pacific nature of the bearer’s mission and requested specifically
that he be granted all the considerations and the official treatment reserved
for bearers of a flag of truce in wartime. The words were blurring before my
eyes as I pretended to reread the text: a sentiment of unfamiliar joy and of
marvellous election overcame me; it seemed to me that for the first time I
understood the meaning of the expression: to give a sign of life.
“I shall have to order your arrest,” I remarked in a deliberately uncertain
tone of voice, folding up the paper. “The recent titles attributed to you here
can hardly override your activities as a spy.”
Caught unprepared, I was clumsily trying to gain the advantage. “Don’t
try to deny it!” I stopped him with a gesture. “We’ve met before this
occasion. I believe I recall that you were not wearing a uniform, though you
were armed.”
“The livery of the Princess Aldobrandi,” he corrected, his voice still
courteous, with a slight nod of the head.

I frowned severely.
“... Let us leave that aside,” he added immediately, as though in excuse.
Obviously he wanted to avoid embarrassing me. “May we open a
parenthesis here?” he asked with a good-humored smile. And while I stared
at him uncomprehendingly, he stood up, calmly removed a pistol from his
pocket and set it beside me on the table. “I am your prisoner, if you like;
now perhaps you can be more comfortable. Let us leave that aside then, for
a while, and perhaps we can talk seriously.”
Suddenly I no longer felt in a very good mood. The stranger had a double
advantage over me: his careful insolence and my own inelegant reflexes. I
frowned as I turned the pistol over. “Well?” I asked, glancing at him
unpleasantly.
The stranger seemed to reflect a moment. “I might say, Signor Observer,”
he began, with a hesitation in his voice which oddly added to its charm,
“that my task is not so easy. My country and yours present proof that
between States, as between individuals, can be created quite singular false
situations. By the very fact of their ... longevity, they can last that much
longer.” He produced a discreet sigh of embarrassment. “...It happens, now
that we meet once again after a ... prolonged separation, that we no longer
know, even approximately, where we stand.”
“I am not a diplomat,” I remarked quite dryly. “The Signory has
doubtless drawn up its protocols. I am not in its confidence. I do not
question your mandate. But you are addressing the wrong man.”
I did not want to make things easier for him. I took a secret pleasure in
this uncertain tone of reticence, this groping approach of his. More perhaps
from it than from what he would have to tell me, I knew how to proceed.
“There’s no mistake,” he continued, lowering his eyes a moment. “You
are indeed our man,” he added, raising them suddenly, and it seemed to me
he was smiling at me the way Marino used to smile sometimes, with that
same remote, knowing smile.
“At the very least, that’s a singular way of speaking.” I felt less outraged
than I wanted to. He made a deprecating gesture with marked insincerity.

“I am doubtless not quite fluent in your language. I meant that whatever
judgment was made concerning this ‘false situation,’ there occurred a new
fact, a new situation as of last week. You are no stranger to the matter—less
a stranger than anyone.” He waited for an answer that did not come, and
then, after a moment’s silence, seemed to make up his mind. “I shall
therefore summarize the facts which motivate this conversation. Orsenna
and Farghestan are in a state of war ...” He seemed to weigh and to wield
the word with his expressive fingers, and once again shot me that veiled and
faintly amused glance. “... Such is indeed the case, is it not, Signor
Observer? From the state of war to the fact of war, in the case which
concerns us, there is, however, a considerable distance. The dispute is a
very old one. Time—as the saying goes—is a gentleman. The Sea of Syrtes
is broad. The two countries, as you know, have avoided any encounter for a
very long time. The war has dozed off; it is not even too much to say that it
seems to have fallen asleep.” Once again his glance remained without an
answer. He took his time with some satisfaction. “There is a phrase, I
believe, to designate a sound sleep—a phrase that refers to ‘sleeping on
both ears.’ In such a case, it is to be feared that the war is not going to sleep
much longer ...”
“You choose to say so ...”
“You choose to do much more. Last Thursday night, a suspicious ship
was observed cruising very close to our coasts. It came from Orsenna. It
was a warship. You were commanding it.”
“Your information is very specific and very swift,” I replied, annoyed.
“The night was extremely dark. To say the least, the matter does not seem to
have come as a surprise. Am I supposed to offer you personal
congratulations?” I added, in the most cutting tone I could manage.
He smiled again without impatience. “We are discussing a fact. I am glad
to see you are not contesting it. It is impossible not to regard it as extremely
serious. What might elsewhere pass for an error, a ... confusion of no
consequence, can here only assume the character of a calculated
provocation, and in our present situation its meaning is clear.”

“Our situation! It’s been so long ...” I interrupted him with an ironic tone.
“There is no statute of limitations in history, Signor Observer. Your ...
visit has awakened some very old memories. These memories are not
peaceful ones. They may once more become ... burning ones.”
He stared at me insistently. For the first time I distinguished an
unexpected note of exaltation in his voice.
“What are you getting at?” I asked him, my tone anything but assured.
“At the message it is my mission to deliver to you,” he resumed in a
neutral tone, as if he wanted to emphasize that he was here as no more than
a spokesman. “The government of Rhages considers that a period of de
facto peace, so continuously respected on either side, ultimately constitutes
a tacit promise of non-hostility. Nor has that government been responsible, I
must formally emphasize in its name, for the fact that this condition has not
been scrupulously observed. By Orsenna’s doing, this period has now been
brought to a close by a veritable act of war. Rhages now regards itself as
excused, de facto as already de jure, from its attitude of determined
abstention ...” He was silent for a moment, and then resumed, pronouncing
his words very distinctly: “... However, Rhages regards the matter as
contingent upon the wisdom, whose proofs it has so continuously given, of
allowing for a certain amount of reflection before launching uncontrollable
events. It prefers to declare that its intentions have remained unshakably
pacific. It even consents to admit—no material damage having in fact been
caused by this ... incursion—that the way remains open to a reasonable
settlement, if ...” The voice lingered complacently over the word. “... If
proofs can be duly given that no genuinely hostile purpose has inspired this
... indiscretion.”
“What form does that government envisage for such ‘proofs’?”
“The forbearance of the government of Rhages is extreme,” he murmured
with a barricaded smile (I was beginning to be a little intrigued by his
impersonal way of alluding to the authority he was representing). “Nothing
that would constitute for you an irritating or troublesome form, nothing that
would claim to be a satisfaction. Its uncertainty is great,” he commented

with a slightly forced warmth. “Either the fact is insignificant—or else, if it
signifies something, it annuls three centuries of security, if not of peace. It
is understandable, Signor Observer, that in the face of this somewhat
unsettling situation, we should ask once and for all, as I was saying but a
moment ago, where we stand.”
“In other words?”
“A disavowal,” he snapped in a very precise tone. “Express assurance
that this violation of our coastal waters has been involuntary, accidental,
and as such devoid of any signification. The promise that incidents so
prejudicial to a mutual tranquility will not be repeated. Naturally,” he
added, “the time necessary for you to refer the matter to the Signory will be
generously granted. I mean,” he continued rapidly, “thirty days, as of this
evening.”
There was a moment’s embarrassed silence. I realized that the official
communication had concluded.
“It may not be so easy for us to reach you with an answer as it has been
for you to put questions,” I said, to gain time. “Farghestan does not seem to
be readily accessible ...”
“Your imagination will certainly be of service to you here,” he replied
with an amused irony. “I myself have had to force your door in a somewhat
cavalier fashion. The choice is yours as to the form and the means of an
assurance which Rhages has no doubt of receiving.”
Silence fell again. The slightly oblique eyes with their heavy glance
waited greedily. It was as if he had relieved himself of an encumbering
mission which his detached and rapid tone had oddly tended to minimize.
Now he was growing animated before my eyes; his countenance, presented
to my curiosity, seemed to glisten with sudden vitality; the spokesman’s
role was over, and yet it seemed he had used this official mission as no
more than a singular kind of overture, a pretext for the tête-à-tête which
was beginning now.
Indeed he had nothing to fear: I would not let him leave now. I felt an
inexpressible relief, a marvellous suspension in the mere fact that he was

there: a silent apparition held for a moment within the luminous circle of
my lamp. Suddenly it seemed to me I had summoned him up then and there,
a silhouette issuing from another world, set down on the other side of my
desk in the intimacy of a nocturnal visit. Those eyes resting on me spoke
quite beyond what any words might say; I felt confirmed and recognized.
“And if not?” I said in a voice that sounded oddly calm and a little sleepy.
“If not?” “If the answer you are expecting does not reach you?” The
stranger’s gaze became fixed; one might have said that his eyes were veiled
with a faint cast. The figure, however, remained quite motionless. “The
instructions I have received include no information on that subject,” he
continued after a moment’s silence. He raised his eyes to mine and frowned
slightly. “I have acquitted myself of an official communication. A
conversation between us of a ... private nature would doubtless not be
without its uses. It could not, however, engage anything but my private
opinion. But I fear it is very late,” he hesitated, with an expression of polite
regret. I handed him a cigar case, and leaned back in my chair with studied
nonchalance. “Admiralty evenings are long,” I said, and caught myself
giving him an almost friendly look. “A ... tricentennial visit can hardly be
regarded as abusive.” I observed the seductiveness of his slightly cruel
smile. That hesitation in his voice I was imitating without realizing it gave
us a certain shared quality—suddenly put us quite at ease. All at once, in
the silences interrupting his incoherent conversation, had been established a
singular understanding of every nuance. “If not?” I repeated calmly, and
met his eyes. “People talk a great deal in Maremma, Signor Observer. You
might certainly be interested in the rumors which are rife in the city ...” The
voice drawled over the last phrase, and the smile once again emphasized its
deliberately alluring nature. I suddenly realized—but without anger, rather
with a feeling of conspiratorial curiosity—why Belsenza’s police had so
consistently drawn a blank. “The police are interested in them as well, I
should warn you. It would be a mistake to exaggerate the naiveté of the
police. Sooner or later they will lay hands on those who are spreading such
rumors, and I can promise you that the matter will then be closed.” “You are
mistaken about that, Signor Observer,” he remarked with an embarrassed

little cough. “I cannot believe you would reason like the simple police.”
“Excuse me. The simple police do not reason so badly,” I interrupted coldly,
“when they determine to track down a source which seems to me less and
less doubtful, and to place the responsibility on certain public poisoners. I
have no doubt that the sentiments your government exhibits are properly
appreciated by the Signory. But I shall permit myself to enlighten the
Signory somewhat, and it may discern that, between intentions and actions,
there is a considerable distance. If there had not been such stubborn
intention to infect public opinion, we should not have undertaken that
necessary precaution which seems to vex you so mightily.” The stranger
gazed out the window with a courteous and discouraged gesture. “I see that
it is very difficult for us to understand one another,” he remarked with a
resigned patience. “Indeed, I cannot feel quite comfortable dealing with an
agent provocateur.” On his part there was a moment of silence which was
not so much offended as distressed, like the silence of shocked propriety
which follows the excessively noisy smashing of an important piece of
china. “I am glad the word has been spoken,” he went on, with pitiless
insouciance. “Fearing to embitter matters, Rhages has perhaps evinced an
excessive zeal to avoid doing so.” Once again he made a gesture which
closed the subject, as though casually apologizing. The expression on his
face, which increasingly intrigued me, was that of a gambler who cautiously
turns over the cards of a deal one by one. “Let us leave this matter aside,”
he said in an irritated voice. “I am afraid we are slipping into a nasty
altercation.” He gazed at me again with an open and almost ingenuous
smile, the way one tries to wheedle a sulky child into good humor. “It
seems to me we are losing sight of a remarkable feature of the situation,” he
continued, looking back toward the window. “We have everything to gain,
if we want to understand each other, by not setting an undue importance
upon what I should call ready-made ill will. No, no, please, don’t speak!”
(There was a sudden haste in his voice, as if he had feared to see me
terminate the interview once again.) “I meant that if we were to resume the
routine language of police and chancelleries, we should not have words to
explain ourselves with regard to what I should call, if you like, the new

fact.” His eyes met mine again, and since I said nothing, his expression
suddenly brightened with a delicate and relaxed smile, a smile filled with
charm. Yet a wrinkle drew down one corner of his mouth, I now noticed,
making it stiff and austere as a scar, so that his smile was nuanced with a
touch of cruelty. “... Look here, Signor Observer,” he went on, “it is difficult
to talk, it is difficult to think in the context of an official language and an
inherited situation. The former speaks of ‘provocation’ and ‘espionage’ and
the latter calls itself war. You have reminded me just now, with a certain
humor, that there can be a considerable distance between sentiments and
actions. But I listen to you and I think in my turn that there is sometimes a
long way from words to ... feelings,” he concluded, looking into my eyes
with an amused expression. “Might I ask you to explain what you mean?”
“You have received me here this evening.” The stranger’s gaze slowly
circled the room, lingering over the shadows the lamplight vaguely stirred.
The calm around us had deepened in the sleeping Admiralty; it seemed to
me that the room had filled with that warm and lingering intimacy, riddled
with complicitous silences, which brings together under the lamp, for a last
cigar, two very intimate friends. In the distance, behind the fortress, roosters
crowed, deceived as they often were by the brilliant moonlight of Syrtes.
Suddenly it seemed to me that it was very late and that the sound of our
somnolent voices was sinking into an ageless obscurity, joining the murmur
of dreams that made the desert nights hum so faintly. “Don’t take it as any
special compliment,” I said, smiling in my turn despite myself. “We don’t
find anyone much to talk to, here in Syrtes.” I heard my sentence fall into
the silence with a sudden discomfort, struck by the ambiguity of that ‘find
anyone’ ... It was as if, in the stranger’s presence, words hesitated of their
own accord on the edge of a slippery incline, suddenly ready to say too
much. “What did you mean when you said ‘new fact’?” “Perhaps the
expression is excessive. It would be very misleading, in my opinion, Signor
Observer” (the voice once again obligingly emphasized the phrase) “if one
seeks to judge the changes which have occurred in the relations between
our two countries, to place oneself on the mere terrain of facts. By limiting
oneself to this terrain, it is not impossible that the government of Rhages

has had its attention drawn to certain protective measures which the
situation scarcely justifies ... I believe there has been a great deal of
construction at the Admiralty of late,” he commented with a smile. “And
yet, judging it from here, as I am now in a position to do, I am rather
inclined to suppose that I have seen certain ... defenses yielding, one by
one.” His glance slid between his eyelids like a knife blade. “Orsenna will
be grateful for your diagnosis,” I grinned, with an embarrassed look. “It will
nonetheless ask your pardon for finding itself in excellent health.” He
ignored my irony. “I have lived in your country, Signor Observer,” he said
in a serious, even a sad voice which no longer sought to be evasive. “And I
have loved it. And because I have loved it, I have hoped your people would
enjoy a happy old age—which is to say, a short imagination. It is not good
for imagination to ... affect a people, when that people is too old.” “You
have lived too much in Maremma,” I said, making sure I laughed again. “I
know our good city has been suffering from a slight bout of fever. No one
less than you, I believe, will be deceived by such rumors.” “Such rumors do
not risk remaining unmotivated for long. That is how I wanted to answer
your ‘if not?’. It happens that the fever is gaining ground,” he said,
weighing his words and slowly raising his eyes to meet mine. “A
disinterested observer may judge such an ... obsession to be merely curious,
but in actuality one never feels comfortable very long in being the object of
such a feeling of ... election.” “Do you intend to use unverifiable rumors as
the basis of your proceedings against what you are calling our intention?”
The stranger slowly shook his head. “I mentioned no proceedings of any
kind,” he said, choosing his words with great care. “I am trying to anticipate
developments. I am trying to foresee with you the possible course of events
between our two peoples, the working out of new relations which you will
doubtless agree in calling effective.” “You are mad!” I gasped, and felt my
cheeks turning red. “I am trying to make things easier for you,” he said,
lowering his gaze with confident nonchalance. “I feel great sympathy for
you. I know how embarrassing it can be in certain cases to make—how
shall I say ... ?” His glance met mine once more through the slit of those
oblique eyes. “... a declaration. I know how much the government of

Rhages is mistaken,” he added, eager to cut me off, “in its judgment of the
incident which is motivating our discussion ...” His sagacious and ironic
eyes were on me now—a fly that could not be driven away. “... I myself am
convinced that this incursion was not ... hostile.” “No, it was not,” I said in
a voice that sounded choked in spite of myself. He lowered his eyes and
seemed to meditate. The moonlight whitened the window and seemed to
make the lamplight paler. The night was opening like a glade, floating in the
incorporeal time that makes insomnia so endless; once again, somewhere in
that false dawn that was all too calm, roosters crowed. “Will you say as
much at Rhages?” asked the stranger in a neutral tone. “And if I did?” “If
you did?” He repeated the question mechanically. “... If you did ... well
then! there is no question, I think, that the situation would be closed. We
should merely suppose that Orsenna had temporarily suffered from a kind
of ... insomnia,” he continued in a voice whose excessive politeness now
had something insulting in it. “One cannot find a good reason, as a matter
of fact, for supposing that matters would fail to settle down once more. It is
not given to everyone to end tragically,” he added in a singsong tone that
disagreeably transformed his voice. “To end?” I asked in a stunned tone.
The word struck my opaque ear with a dull shock. “As you well know,” he
murmured, half rising from his chair and bringing his mouth closer to my
ear. “I have come to help you understand. You must not suppose you could
get off so cheaply ... I greatly esteem the sermons at Saint John
Damascene,” he said, fastening his gleaming eyes on mine while I
followed, almost hypnotized, the precise and delicate movements of his lips
—the way one reads those of a mute. “... And I think that here you fall a
little short of a serious argument.” “What are you getting at?” I snapped,
standing up in my turn. I could tell I was very pale. “I’m getting at where
you’re going,” the slightly singsong voice replied, unperturbed. “We’re in
no hurry. We’ve been waiting for you a long time—you had a rendezvous
with us since you’ve been here. But some day you’ll thank me for your
luck: you’ll have come with open eyes.” He bowed slightly and I realized
he was about to take his leave. “... Remember this, Signor Observer, it will
give you a new perspective on moonlight expeditions: for peoples, there is

only one kind of ... intimate relation.” “But where is the answer to be sent?”
I suddenly exclaimed, as though awakening, as he was already gliding out
of the room and through the door. The narrow eyes turned back to meet
mine out of the darkness. “You fail to do yourself justice. There will be
none,” he said calmly, and once again the door swung shut on darkness. For
a long while I remained sitting motionless at my desk. The silent, reptilian
way he had appeared out of the dark and returned to it, the fascination his
eyes and his voice had worked upon me, and this very late hour, might have
persuaded me that the whole episode had been an hallucination, if the
document starred with the scarlet seal of Rhages had not been lying on my
desk, like those malefic pacts one signs with one’s blood. A sinister note
echoed in the stranger’s last words; now that this presence, more
encompassing than any I had ever experienced, had withdrawn, it seemed to
me that the black chill of the small hours at Syrtes had slipped into the
unsealed room, and mechanically I went over to the half-open window.
There was nothing to be seen but the moon-whitened moor; the hoofbeats
of a horse trotting along the causeway were just audible. The desire to call
the stranger back rose in my throat so abruptly that I barely choked down a
cry; the hoofbeats were already fading in the darkness; the cutting edge of
that voice once again froze my ears: that figure so rapidly swallowed up by
the dark was one of those it is useless to pursue. I passed my hand over my
face: it was covered with a cold sweat; a dizzy spell stretched me out on the
bed, my head ringing. What remained of my thoughts followed the stranger
into that motionless dark; I realized that as soon as possible I must find
Vanessa. As I got out of the car in the chilly morning to hail one of the
palace boatmen always lounging along the wharf, I realized that Maremma
seemed to have wakened earlier than usual. I had had almost no sleep; the
tonic chill of this marine morning and my fast ride had momentarily shaken
my mind free of the memory of the interview of the night before. My
feverish need of Vanessa had become so blind and so exclusive that at the
very moment I was about to ask her to deny my basest suspicions I felt less
anxiety in the face of my uncertainty than joy in realizing that by adding to
so many suspect and shared secrets I would become more necessary to her.

It was market day in Maremma; many times already, leaving the palace at
dawn and still lulled in a half-sleep on the water cluttered with the debris of
vegetables, I had smelled the juicy, heady odor of the Syrtes melons, green
pyramids unloaded at a corner of the docks and still steaming with mist, and
had noticed the peasant clatter of bare feet on wet stones; but now, instead
of the hubbub of the market, the murmur was that of a crowd gathering
around a serious accident. It seemed to me that the Admiralty car parked on
the quay was provoking even more curiosity than usual; abandoning the few
open-air stalls, the crowd quickly formed at some distance; a mixture of
anxious curiosity and respect seemed to paralyze their faces, and from the
expressions of gravity which suddenly made them look older, I realized that
news of our nocturnal expedition must have leaked out. “Something new,
Beltran?” I asked the boatman, gesturing with my chin to the preoccupied
faces which now fringed the edge of the dock and followed us with insistent
stares. “It’s the disaster, Excellency,” he said, lowering his eyes and
speaking with that resigned inflection one hears in the poor people’s throats
in times of affliction, and he kissed the cross Syrtes fishermen wear on a
chain over their hearts. “...It was all forseen,” he added, shaking his head
with a senile gesture. “God wills it so. Since last week we’ve been praying
to Saint John Damascene night and day.” As I might have expected, the
Aldobrandi palace was taking more than its part in the effervescence that
prevailed in town. The corridors and the suites of rooms I crossed, already
filled with a turbulence of slammed doors, of hurrying footsteps and of
confabulations in corners, suggested the headquarters of a city under siege
and the confusion of a dying sovereign’s palace, its murmurs vacillating
between remedies of the quacks and the regency’s plots. I hurried through
the groups; once again, I filled my lungs with the familiar sensation that life
here was consumed faster than elsewhere. Yet Vanessa had not appeared;
her maid was dozing in front of her closed door.
“I’ve come early, Viola,” I said, and smiled as I rested my hand on her
shoulder. “Will the princess receive me at such an hour?”

“God be praised!” she said, grasping my hands with an exalted gesture.
“She’s been waiting for you these two hours.”
Vanessa had just finished dressing as I made my way into her room. I was
struck by how pale she was—an almost showy pallor which had nothing to
do with fatigue or sickness, though it was evident she had not slept for a
long while; rather such pallor descended upon her like the grace of a more
solemn moment; as if she had assumed it for the occasion. She was wearing
a black dress with long folds, of an austere simplicity; with her long hair
hanging down her neck and her shoulders so white above the dress, her
loveliness combined the fleeting beauty of an actress and the sovereign
beauty of catastrophe; she was like a queen at the foot of the scaffold.
“Behold the hero of the day,” she exclaimed, smiling with contained
excitement as she glided across the room to meet me. “You’ve been so
long!” she continued in a low whisper as she took my head in both hands
and raised it so that my eyes met hers—her eyes which answered me, which
answered everything ... “I’ve been waiting for you night and day.”
In an impulse of contradiction, I thrust her away, gently. Vanessa was not
unconscious of her weapons, and this abrupt embrace made me bristle. “...
Your friends in Rhages still have cannons, did you know that?” I said,
indicating the painting with my eyes and keeping my voice quite cool. “As
a matter of fact, if they had aimed a little better, it’s likely you’d have had to
wait for me a very, very long time.”
Vanessa remained silent.
“...I went over there, you’ll be pleased to hear,” I continued with marked
ill humor. “It seems to me I’ve provided your guests with an interesting
subject for conversation.”
“I’m not pleased, I’m happy,” she said, and seized my hands and began
kissing them passionately. “... Orsenna has remembered its arms. I’m so
proud of you,” she added with a vehemence I did not find altogether
convincing. There was a touch of rhetoric in it that wasn’t her style, or
perhaps I was merely responding to that shadow of embarrassment which is
always attached to manifestations of feminine patriotism.

“Who’s mentioned arms? It seems to me that people hereabouts are living
a little too much on your imagination, Vanessa,” I added coldly. “I must
warn you that the salons of the Aldobrandi palace have taken history a little
too much on credit. There wasn’t even a skirmish—I gave orders not to
reply.”
Which was overstating the case, but I was a man who suddenly sees his
horse take the bit in its teeth. Vanessa glanced at me twice, with an
expression of incredulous surprise—as if she refused to believe her eyes.
“Of course, Aldo—you were very discreet about the whole affair ...
You’re discretion itself,” she continued, as one might comfort a child.
“Everyone admires you here, I must say, for having shown so much
composure.”
“Everyone?” I echoed the word with astonishment, so little did this
appeal to received ideas sound like her. “... Everyone? But Vanessa, what
does that mean? There’s not one word spoken in Maremma that you haven’t
prompted.”
Vanessa stood up abruptly, and forthwith took the wind, as I used to call it
in our intimate moments when I teased her about that sudden impression
she gave of swelling with the breeze: she began walking up and down with
her elastic leonine stride, and all at once the room seemed smaller. Again I
received—even more strongly—the impression that she had not ceased to
be on stage for one minute since I had come in.
“You’re wrong, Aldo,” she said at last. “I might have yesterday, but not
today. Not any longer. All that’s out of our hands now,” she added, with a
kind of tranquility.
“It seems to me that not much of ‘all that’ has escaped you ... You wanted
me to go over there—you made that clear.”
Vanessa stopped at the window and glanced pensively toward the canal.
“Perhaps,” she said, shrugging with indifference. “It doesn’t matter much,
now.”
“Matter! ... The captain will be here in two days. I’m going to have to
answer for things,” I went on in a changed voice. “Do you suppose he’ll

forget about all that so easily?”
“You’re making yourself very important, Aldo,” she observed in a
faraway voice. “You’re not humble. Neither you nor I count for much in
this affair,” she added in a tone of literal observation.
“I went over there, Vanessa, and you wanted me to,” I said as I leaned
toward her, in a low and patient voice, the way you get the attention of
someone who has fallen asleep.
“No, Aldo. Someone went over there. Because there was no other way.
Because it was time. Because someone had to go ... Have you noticed,” she
said in a lower tone of voice, grasping my wrist, “when something’s going
to happen, how everything suddenly changes direction? ... Or meaning? ...
Did Marino ever tell you how he went down with his ship?”
She gave me a sidelong glance, and once again there was that tone of
intimacy and irony in her voice which she instinctively assumed whenever
she mentioned the captain. “It’s scarcely imaginable, Aldo—given his
passion for agriculture. But apparently you can’t judge people by the way
they look, and maybe it was in a previous life ... When he shows you that
hand with the two fingers missing, you can’t help thinking—you know?—
of someone who has received the stigmata!”
She broke into her silvery laugh.
“No one in Syrtes has a service record that compares to Marino’s.” I
answered dryly.
“Don’t be upset, Aldo ...” Again the delicate, rather fierce laughter
mocked me. “You know how much I care for him. We’re old friends. Well,
even when they were sinking ... Aldo! I don’t know if you can visualize
Marino as a man of the storms, arms folded on the bridge while the ship
was going under,” she mused, as though struck in spite of herself by the
comic impossibility of the scene.
“‘Women and children first’ ... Oh yes, I can see it perfectly,” and I
smiled in my turn, finding it less awkward to play the game. “He has a
natural dignity you aren’t doing justice.”

“There were no women or children, nothing but the crew: it was a
warship. The sea was rising, the men were clinging to the rigging, retreating
in front of the water inch by inch: you couldn’t have made them let go with
an axe, Marino told me. The water was rising very slowly, the ship was in
no hurry to sink—it had hit some sort of unmarked reef in a very calm sea.
Apparently they hadn’t heard a sound, and Marino said it wasn’t impressive
at all—actually it was rather a calm sort of disaster, as if they were scuttling
some rotten old hull to block up a harbor. All of a sudden there was this
huge ‘ploof’—Marino turned round and there was no one left on the
rigging, the crew was floundering in the waves or else going under; they
had all jumped into the sea at once,” she concluded, as though absorbed in
this vision, a greedy intensity in her voice.
“Rats also desert a sinking ship,” I said with a shrug. “It only proves that
men have no nose for catastrophes.”
“Are you so sure? ... Anyway, that’s not important, that’s not what
seemed so odd to me about the story. What struck me,” she added, letting
her gaze drift toward the window, “is that the signs must have changed. One
moment everyone is still holding on, and the next everyone jumps in, the
whole crew in the water ... Yes,” she continued, as if she were
contemplating some obvious fact, “there comes a moment when you jump
—it’s not fear and it’s not calculation, it’s not even the desire to survive; it’s
because a voice closer than any voice in the world speaks to you—because
it isn’t even the same as dying to go down with the ship, because anything is
better than being tied to a corpse, all of a sudden anything’s better than
being stuck to a doomed thing that stinks of death. The rising waters are
patient,” she said dreamily. “They can wait. Their prey will always make
the way shorter ...”
“So that’s what you’ve come here for,” I said, getting up with an abrupt
gesture. I couldn’t tell what I was thinking any more. It seemed to me I had
spoken the very words falling out of her mouth myself, yet they inspired me
with disgust and rage; Vanessa’s shamelessness lay upon me like a bold

hand; again she inspired in me that brutality which finally dissolved in
tenderness like a hailstorm.
“It seems to me you’ve come here too, Aldo. You’ve come even farther
than I.” She met my eyes with a smile of pride, and in spite of myself I
began yielding to the spell of that radiant smile.
“God knows what’s going to come of all this,” I said, staring at her
pensively. “I’m afraid we’ve both done something insane,” I added, taking
her hand in my turn, needing to know she wasn’t abandoning me.
Vanessa shrugged and seemed to dismiss an importunate thought. “Are
you trying to make me sorry?” She turned toward me and her eyes sparkled.
“All the same, Orsenna’s learned who we are,” she said between clenched
teeth. “My people have been a thorn in its side, and Orsenna’s been a
broken-down nag between our legs, driven to a last gallop. What do you
expect—that the rider should apologize,” she added with fierce irony, “for
having given the animal its head?”
“Not a flattering comparison,” I remarked coldly. “Besides, there’s a
proverb that says you shouldn’t waste time whipping a dead horse.
Orsenna’s sleeping peacefully. Why remember what the city’s chosen to
forget?”
“Go on, stick its nose in the feedbag,” she said with a smile of extreme
scorn. “Marino will help you.” She turned away, her face angelic with rage,
and her long warrior’s stride once again echoed up and down the room.
“Something insane?” she repeated, suddenly stopping as if she were
talking to herself. “Is a man insane who gropes for the wall in the midst of
his nightmare? Do you think people would talk so much—since it seems
they are talking—if their ears weren’t finally deafened by never hearing an
echo?”
“That’s where you may be wrong, and that’s just what I wanted to get at.
It seems that the wall isn’t altogether without an echo. I’ve already heard
one, if you want to know.”
Vanessa’s gaze became fixed, and her pupils contracted faintly.
Comforted by the intense curiosity which disarmed her gaze, I suddenly felt

more at ease.
“An echo?” she said, her voice incredulous.
“Do you still take your little excursions out to sea?” I asked her in an
indifferent tone of voice.
“What do you mean?”
“Nothing special. I’d have liked to know, for instance, if your boat is still
ready to sail.”
There was a moment’s silence.
“How do you know?” Vanessa finally said, her voice stupefied.
“Perhaps you’d like to know where it’s gone? It happens I have some
light to shed on the matter.”
Vanessa stared at me with an uncertain and embarrassed expression.
“Gone?” she repeated, incredulous. “You don’t mean ...” She started
suddenly, as though all at once struck by an idea.
“Over there. Yes!” I snapped at her, and watched her face carefully, but
the sudden start I expected did not occur: Vanessa’s eyes narrowed again,
with a dangerous expression of amused and conniving cunning, then
brightened with a sudden glow. “Vanessa!” I exclaimed, and put my arms
around her and shook her until her hands flapped. “Vanessa, don’t you
understand what it means? Don’t you see whom you’ve been protecting—
covering?”
“Did you come here to demand an accounting?” she said, staring at me
with disdainful composure ... “I didn’t know anything of the kind, of
course,” she went on with a shrug—“my word will have to be enough for
you.”
“You didn’t know. Of course you didn’t know. But perhaps you suspected
...”
Vanessa burst into an insulting laugh. “‘You suspected’ ...” she continued,
imitating my voice. “‘You suspected’ ... My word, Aldo, this is an
interrogation. You can’t imagine how much you interest me in the role of
Grand Inquisitor ...”

“You will answer,” I said, standing up in an impulse of icy rage as I
grabbed her wrist. “I swear to you, Vanessa, I don’t feel like joking. Did you
suspect?”
Vanessa raised her head. “What if I did?” she said in a low, clear voice ...
“Yes, since you want to know.”
I suddenly dropped the tense hand, and I felt I was sitting down heavily:
my head was spinning. What I felt was not disgust, nor anger, but instead a
scared and troubled amazement, as in the presence of someone who
suddenly begins walking on water.
“You’ll just have to get used to it, Aldo,” Vanessa said very distinctly
behind me. “Things don’t fall ready made into our hands.”
“You could do a thing like that?” I answered, my voice incredulous in its
turn.
I suddenly turned around, surprised by her silence. Vanessa wasn’t even
listening to me; over my head, she was staring at the painting on the wall.
“You’ve looked at it often, haven’t you?” I went on, venomously. I stood
up and took a step toward her, but suddenly stopped. Vanessa wasn’t
looking at me, and I was overcome in spite of myself by the magic of that
portrait. Even now it was imposing silence... .
“I wonder what he’s thinking about,” Vanessa said in a tone of the
deepest concentration. “I often wonder. You guessed right, Aldo,” she said,
taking another step, as though fascinated. “I even get up at night sometimes
to look at him. I wonder if you and I have ever been so close,” she went on,
and her tone made my throat tighten. “You know, those summer nights that
are hotter than the days, when it seems as if Syrtes were macerating like a
body in its own sweat ... I get up barefoot on the cool tiles, in that white
nightgown you like”—she turned toward me with a gleam of provocation in
her eyes—“I’ve cheated on you often, Aldo. It was an assignation. At that
hour, Maremma seems dead; not a sleeping city but a city whose heart has
stopped beating, a city that’s been sacked—and if you look out over the bay,
the lagoon is like a crust of salt, and you think you’re looking at one of the

seas on the moon. As if the planet had cooled while you were asleep, as if
you got up during a night on the other side of time.”
“You think you’re looking at what will be happening some day,” she
went on with an inspired exaltation, “when there’ll be no more Maremma,
no more Orsenna, not even ruins, nothing but the lagoon and the sand and
the desert wind under the stars. You think you passed through the centuries
all alone, and that you’re breathing deeper, more solemnly, because so
many millions of rotten lungs have disappeared. Were there never any
nights, Aldo, when you dreamed the earth was suddenly turning just for
you? Turning faster and faster, so that you were leaving behind all the
animals with weaker lungs? Those are the ones that don’t like the future;
but the animal who feels he has a heart for that impossible speed—what’s
crime and perdition to him? Only what keeps him from leaping ahead,
nothing else. To think men live together because they live side by side ...
There are cities that are damned for some people by the mere fact that they
seem created to close off the distances that are the only reason for living.
Comfortable cities—you can see the world in them as you can nowhere
else: like a squirrel on its treadmill. But the only ones I like are the ones
where you feel the desert wind blowing through the streets; and there are
days, Aldo,” Vanessa said, turning toward me and staring at me with her
hard eyes, “when I’ve had a serious quarrel with Orsenna: all you can smell
there is the swamp, and sometimes I’ve thought it was keeping the earth
from turning ... There’s something scary about staring at a portrait by night,
by candlelight. It’s as if a legible face, a face from the depths of the
shadows that have dissolved it, is eager to reach the surface, to form again
in contact with this little fluttering life that separates the light from the
darkness all over again—as if it were desperately calling, as if it were trying
to be recognized one last time. If you’ve ever even seen such a vision, Aldo,
you’ve seen how the darkness is populated—you’ve seen the night take
form. The man who called to me was of my blood, my race, and I felt that
beyond shame, beyond the dishonor assigned for order’s sake, like
decorations in wartime—I felt his way of smiling summoning me to a secret
over which the city’s stupid conscience had no judgment and no rights... .

“I’d like to make you understand something, Aldo. There’s a story my
father used to tell me when I was a little girl, a story which had a
tremendous effect on me; he had heard it from my great-uncle Giacomo,
Giacomo the Profaner, the one who led the San Domenico uprising, during
the Merchants rebellion ... Well, there’s no help for it, alas!” Vanessa broke
off, shooting me a smile of half-amused insolence, “the genealogy of the
Aldobrandis is the inadmissible Gotha of perfidious factions, as our history
books say. When Giacomo and his armed bands seized the building of the
Consulta, as you may remember, where they could hold out for only a few
hours, Giacomo managed to lay hands on the police archives and
discovered the list of spies the Signory had planted in the people’s party.
They were hunted down right away to be shot then and there; you
remember, during that affair, no quarter was given on either side. Do you
know where those men were found? You’ll never guess ... On the
barricades, where they were firing bravely against the Signory’s troops;
some had already been killed, others had to be dragged off the parapets to
be shot against the cobblestones. ‘A dreadful mistake!’ is reputed to have
been my great-uncle’s lament after the fact, hiding his face in his hands (I
can’t help it, he wasn’t as sensitive as you), ‘does a winemaker burn his
barrels because they’ve already been used?’ I hope you find it in your heart
to forgive him, Aldo,” Vanessa went on, giving me that demonic sidelong
glance of hers, “he was a cynic of the kind you see only too often—well, I
mean ... such remarks don’t reveal an enthusiast of inviolable personality;
all he saw was strength wasted, and perhaps from his point of view he
wasn’t entirely wrong. But from a more ... contemplative perspective, if you
like, and setting aside, of course, the extremely blameworthy meaning
attached to such actions by our sentiment of virtue (again Vanessa darted
me an extremely enigmatic glance), one might consider so singular a man
rather differently. It’s jumping to conclusions, Aldo, to speak as one does in
such cases, of people who have ‘treason in their blood.’”
Suddenly Vanessa’s voice became more serious.

“Perhaps it’s merely a question of riper and wiser connoisseurs of action,
of people who like to consider things all the way around, even if it’s
dangerous, of minds bold enough to have understood, faster than the rest,
that beyond the blind and stupid excitement struggling in the darkness of
our petty wills, there’s room, if you’re not afraid of being alone, for an
almost divine delight: to pass over to the other side as well, to experience at
the same time the effort and the resistance ... The ones whom Orsenna, in
the naïveté of its (not always so naive) heart inconsiderately calls turncoats
and traitors, I’ve sometimes called in mine poets of the event. I’d like you to
understand these things, Aldo, if you want us to continue to understand
each other, and I’d like you to realize how far, but no farther, your little
delicacies come into consideration. And I also wanted to tell you, if you
went on imposing them—since I’m just back from Orsenna,” she added in a
serious tone of voice, “that not everything there is going quite the way you
suppose, and that from now on people there might be taking things ...
impatiently.”
“I know your father’s back in favor,” I said as circumspectly as I could
manage. “I should tell you I don’t regard the fact as exactly reassuring
news.”
Vanessa seemed to ignore my insinuation. “You’ll find considerable
changes in Orsenna,” she went on, squinting slightly. “And perhaps not the
ones you’re thinking of ... The city seemed more ... alert than I’d have
expected,” she added after a pause. She seemed to be searching for the
words with which to say something difficult.
“Really?”
“It’s not all that obvious—in fact, you need sharp eyes to see what I
mean,” Vanessa went on. “There are signs that can be read only by eyes that
have been waiting for them a long time—watching and waiting.”
“In the memory of man, no one’s read the signs of Orsenna,” I said
ironically. “There are no omens among our people, as you know very well.
There are only anniversaries.”

“I’d be surprised, though, if you didn’t read them the way I do,” Vanessa
answered, pensive now. “Not that there’s anything so very specific ...” She
resumed walking up and down, stopping sometimes as if she were trying to
seize a fleeting impression. “... People can’t be judged by what they do,
that’s what it is. You think they’re elsewhere, that they’re always thinking
about something else ... The faces you meet in the streets—and you
remember, Aldo, there were lives so intense and so full, as present as if you
were walking through a garden—sometimes they made me think of the
carefully preserved facades of evacuated houses. You walk in Orsenna
today as though in an apartment you’re about to move out of ... Not that I
had anything against that,” she added with a smile. “There were days when
it seemed the streets had come apart—that there was a little fresh air in
them now.”
“I see that you went out a good deal in Orsenna,” I interrupted
humorously.
“It seems as if people are instinctively making room for something that
hasn’t happened yet,” she continued as if she hadn’t heard me. “Frankly,
Orsenna’s salons aren’t much improved for that: I’ve never heard such
boring conversations! You know what they’re usually about. Well, the lack
of enthusiasm for discussing the November ball at the Consulta or the next
promotion of the Cross of Saint Jude really stupefied me.”
“Which will be all to Maremma’s advantage. You pointed out, I suppose,
how busy tongues are here.”
Vanessa gave me a little ironic pout. “You’re in a bad mood, Aldo. I’m
sure that soon enough Orsenna will have nothing to envy us with regard to
subjects of conversation. You wouldn’t believe how fast fresh news travels
...”
“You don’t mean they know ...” I said, standing up. I felt I had suddenly
gone pale. “I’ve barely had time to send in my report.”
“You’re a child, Aldo. It was known in Maremma that same morning, and
I heard it just one day later. It seemed to me there was something in the air,
and I arranged matters to be informed. What do you expect, Aldo—I like

knowing things,” she went on, staring at me intently. “And I had no reason
once I was back there to make a secret out of a piece of news that would get
out sooner or later. You know how flattered women are to seem
‘informed,’” she continued, smiling with sinister gaiety: “it’s a kind of
innocent obsession.”
I wiped my hand across my forehead, but wasn’t even sweating. It
seemed to me that I had been caught, naked and frozen in the beam of a
powerful floodlight. I gave no thought to the consequences; all I felt was
the raw horror of an almost physical contact: those thousands of eyes
trained on me in Orsenna now knew. “It’s the end!” I murmured stupidly,
almost whispering, and I felt that this was a wish rather than an observation;
at that instant of brutal collapse, I passionately longed for the earth to open
under me. At that moment, and at that moment alone, I understood
everything; by the light which suddenly starred all those faraway pupils, I
finally saw what I had done.
“You don’t understand, Aldo,” Vanessa went on eagerly. “I took the
offensive. I presented the affair in the most favorable light for you. Of
course I gave matters a little push. A little twist. Everyone in Orsenna now
believes you were treacherously attacked at sea.”
I stared dully at her, still uncertain of her betrayal. “I’ve received a
formal notification from Orsenna—very serious,” I began in a low voice.
“You knew that, didn’t you—or you suspected it ... You’re so well
informed. You want Orsenna not to withdraw, that’s what it is, Vanessa,” I
said, standing up, beside myself at her silence, and I spoke very close to her
face between my clenched teeth. “That’s why you wakened public opinion
in advance, that’s why you closed every door behind me. Don’t lie!” I
screamed at her, “you did it, you wanted it this way, but I didn’t, I swear
before God, Vanessa, you know I didn’t, and you know what this means ...”
“War?” she said after a pause, in a neutral tone of voice, and slowly
raised her unseeing eyes to mine. “It’s never been anything else, as far as I
know. Why are you afraid of the word? Suppose you leave God out of it—

what a coward you are, Aldo,” she went on, with a smile of extreme
disdain.
“You wanted this! I didn’t ...”
I made a clumsy gesture, as if to ward off a curse, and suddenly in spite
of myself, my tears began to flow, thick and silent. I wept without shame,
turning my naked face toward Vanessa; standing bolt upright in a dark
corner of the room, she watched those tears flow in silence.
“You ... me ...” she said at last, shrugging awkwardly, “Can’t you say
anything else but those two words?” She came to me and gently laid her
hand on my shoulder, lowering her eyes. “I love Orsenna more than you do,
Aldo, it’s in my blood, do you understand? And I’m more submissive than
you are, I’m prompter to obey all the city’s desires. If you were a woman,
you wouldn’t be so proud,” she added with a persuasive softness in her
voice, as if someone else suddenly—a spirit of the shadows—had spoken
through her: “You’d understand better. A woman who’s borne a child
knows: knows that you can want ... you don’t know who or what, you really
don’t know—something through yourself, and that it’s frightening, and
profoundly restful ... if you only knew, to feel what will come passing
through your body. Listen!” she said suddenly, raising her hand in a gesture
of fascinated attention.
A sound was now filling the room, a sound both muffled and distinct,
that seemed to well up from everywhere at once, like the murmur of the sea
far away on calm nights: Maremma was speaking behind the door, and in
the sleep of that cottony morning the murmur of the feverish palace made a
sickly roar that drowned out the silence, like a distinct whirlwind or a cloud
of locusts, as if the mandibles of millions of insects were interminably
gnawing something... .
“Did you hear?” Vanessa said, brushing my hands with hers. “That’s how
they spend their lives now ... They’re absolving me: they have nothing to do
with me—they’ve no more need of me, they’ve never needed me.
Something’s come, it’s here now—what do I have to do with that? When
the wind blows pollen over a flower, there’s something in the ripening fruit,

something that mocks the wind. There’s a kind of certainty that there never
was such a thing as wind in all the world, since the fruit is there ... They’ve
never needed me, and I’ve never needed you, Aldo, and it’s good that way,”
she went on with a kind of profound assurance. “Once a thing is really
brought into the world, it’s not like a thing that ‘happens’; all of a sudden
there’s no other eye but its own to see with, and there’s no longer any
question that it might not exist ... All’s well!”
OceanofPDF.com

11
Final Inspection
“Old Carlo’s dead,” Fabrizio hurriedly informed me as I entered my office
in the Admiralty. “They’re burying him this afternoon at three. In the
military cemetery: Giovanni thought that would be all right with you. You
know—it’s the custom here,” he added in a graver voice. “Besides, Marino
was very fond of him ...”
Fabrizio’s last sentence fell into a deeper silence than this expected news
might have created. I had returned from the palace in a calmer frame of
mind, as if, once again, I had somehow been assuaged by Vanessa’s
composure, her incomprehensible certainty; the news darkened that bright
morning for me. More than once it had occurred to me, during these last
anxious days, to pay another visit to Ortello: as if the old man’s mere
presence might have calmed my agitation and my uncertainty, or as if
something might have passed, from me to him, without words and without
effort, of all that constituted my anxiety. Now he was dead; his last words
came back to me, poignant as a hand one has not taken; all of a sudden it
occurred to me that perhaps—undoubtedly—he hadn’t known before he
died. “It’s now, and it’s come too soon,” he had told me; despite myself, in
the light of what had ensued, old Carlo’s words assumed a prophetic
resonance, as if at the last moment the news had failed, perfidiously, to
reach the only one who would have understood it; as if, less fortunate than
the aged Simeon, his eyes hadn’t seen the only sign they still kept open for.
Suddenly I had a vision of the sand spread over the wretched anonymity of
the graves, and with a pang of pity, I felt that the man we would bury,
whose bristling beard was still sprouting in his coffin, was now deader than
any of those who had rotted here for ages.
It was the custom in Syrtes to bury the masters of the great estates in the
military cemetery—the Admiralty garrison had seemed much more devoted

to them than to wartime service. And there was a kind of justice in it: more
than one had served under fire, not long since, against the last desert
bandits, before Orsenna’s exhausted peace had fallen on these lands for
good. A powerful race of soldier-farmers had long controlled this remote
South of ours, talking loud and clear with its subalterns, more military than
the pale bookkeepers who had succeeded each other until Marino, and
resembling, in these faraway outposts, the last green suckers that still
emerge from the ground at a great distance from the exhausted trunk. This
race was dead in its turn, just as noble families had long since died out in
Orsenna; we knew that today we were burying the last of them, and our
little troupe walked more silently on the familiar road than usual. Out of the
milky sky, a calm, gray afternoon was falling over Syrtes, untroubled by the
flaccid sound of the wavelets; for days on end, sometimes, the cold current
that swept the coasts condensed into soft, deceiving mists which forever
promised rain and made the beach into a chilly desert, and in its sickly
breath our muscles went slack and our minds darkened.
“Old Carlo chose his moment,” Giovanni murmured distractedly, pulling
his cloak closer, “this is a real November day.” He darted a bored glance at
the empty coast. “... Syrtes is hardly an earthly paradise, this time of year.”
The four of us were walking along the gray road, our minds blank. The
equally blank sky was making all this land into a silent limbo; the cemetery
ahead of us looked like a grayer, gloomier puddle of boredom, of black
absence, of lugubrious incuriosity.
“He was someone, old Carlo,” Fabrizio announced, his voice heavy with
feeling, and I realized, smiling in spite of myself, that he was thinking of
the sumptuous hunt dinners Ortello had offered us last autumn.
“Yes,” Roberto agreed, nodding. “Marino will be sorry to have missed
this. He said he’d be here soon, though,” he went on in a different tone. “I
wonder ...”
We all knew that he was wondering. On my return from Maremma, I had
found the whole Admiralty crestfallen. The patrols had been cancelled, and
the night watches as well—everything in the fortress, as though by magic,

was the way it had been, hastily shrouded for another winter, each man
sealed in his shell—there had never really been anything to do: the captain
was coming back.
“Shouldn’t we ask the family to dinner?” There was a certain hesitation
in Roberto’s voice: “Ortello’s a long way off. That’s what the captain would
have done.” And in the silence that followed, we all felt how bereft our
little group had remained.
We waited a few minutes, bare-headed, at the cemetery gate. Soon there
appeared, at the turn of the road, one of those long, high-axled carts used
for work in deep sand. The coffin was set on it, open according to the Syrtes
custom, and when it was laid on the ground, I saw that it was filled to the
brim with late, sweet-smelling clusters of the wisteria which twined all over
the verandas of the South; the woodsman’s great papery corpse emerged
through a foam of fragile blossoms. His family and servants followed the
mortuary cart on horseback; one of those white-robed itinerant monks who
occasionally serve in the forsaken chapels of Syrtes was riding behind the
oldest son, and I suddenly realized I was watching a very ancient spectacle:
this long procession indifferently advancing over the flat earth, the slow
gestures and the tanned faces that the desert had turned ageless and
expressionless—all made me think of some cortege of barbaric nomads
bearing their leader’s body to some remote freshwater pasturage. One after
the other we brushed the old man’s forehead with the fingertips of our right
hand in farewell. When it was my turn, the older son, a giant with stubborn
curls, made me a clumsy sign, and I realized he wanted to say something.
“My father will lie in Orsenna’s ground. It is a great honor for us.” He
twisted his belt buckle between his fingers with an embarrassed look. After
a moment I realized what this apparently obscure sentence meant: the earth
of each military cemetery of Orsenna had long ago been mixed with a little
clay brought from the City. Suddenly his hand lay on mine in a gesture of
timid fervor: “I wanted to tell you ... There aren’t many of us here in the
South. It will be as God wills. But everyone here is loyal to you—count on
us, when the time comes.”

The coffin was lowered into its hole in the sand. A light desert wind was
already smoothing the friable crest—sand tumbled into the grave in endless
rivulets without a sound. There was something futile in the measured
gesture of the hands that successively scattered handfuls of sand over the
coffin; this earth so many times mingled with the wind was quintessential
dust, and I felt that the old man would have approved of his jeopardized
lodging. This soil which shifted like the dunes beneath its folds of sand did
not hold its prey forever. For me there was an infinitely disturbing symbol
in this patient, muffled life that clutched the earth so desperately and was
repossessed at its very end—so detached, so light—by a mysterious breath,
a symbol which allied itself with this nomad cortege, with this soil
imperceptibly restored to movement. There was nothing here which spoke
of a last resting place, but on the contrary the cheerful assurance that all
things are eternally returned to the cycle and destined elsewhere than our
own choice; I remembered the old man’s vague smile, which scarcely
encouraged sympathy, and I felt somehow understood and forgiven; it was
good to be here this afternoon, here in this cemetery as though on a first
winter morning, under the dry wind that chases the leaves down the roads.
The priest finished the last Latin prayers, and an awkward and
embarrassed silence fell around the grave. The horses neighed behind the
cemetery wall; on the road we could still hear the creaking of the now
lightened cart; trivial noises, muffled by the warm gray mist, suddenly
made this tiny bit of earth into an extraordinarily vacant place. Behind me I
heard the gate open, and turned around nervously. Marino was walking into
the cemetery.
I had expected, I had feared this return as the moment of my greatest
ordeal, and yet, hearing that slow, heavy trend coming up behind me on the
sandy path, what I felt was anything but fear: it was a profound relief, as
when you bathe in a spring—an inexplicable alleviation.
I stole a few glances at him while, in his slow, peasant’s voice, he
addressed a few words of condolence to the dead man’s family. Again the
faint wind from the sea stirred the grey locks above his extraordinarily

heavy face. In the long stiff folds of his yellowed greatcoat, he seemed to be
part of the earth, a sandy lump. Never so much as after this long absence
had I felt that this bit of ground fulfilled itself in him with a kind of groping
genius; that he belonged to it no longer even as a serf to his glebe but, more
purely and more intimately, as an element of the landscape. He was more
alive in the middle of this grim cemetery than any of the young men who
happened to be gathered there—alive with a kind of hibernal and vegetative
immortality, as if he had drawn into himself the last essence of this
exhausted soil, equally inured to the seasons and the weather, to drought
and hail, indomitable as those sandy-stemmed lilies which clutched for
sustenance at the crumbling ground. More than the stele of Orsenna
encrusted in the wall, it was he who was the symbol of this existence slowly
enmeshed with things, who was ultimately assumed in the uninterrupted
passing of its generations by the indistinct earth, like the varnish that
evaporation leaves on the desert stones. As if in him one had reached the
low-water mark of consciousness, the desert spaces of a life without
memory and without wrinkles seemed to appear on that countenance of
such naive emptiness, of such nocturnal incuriosity. And yet that face had
changed. I looked at it, almost alien to what was to follow, with a kind of
detached impartiality; and suddenly I realized—as if it had concerned me,
like a woman to whom her mirror reveals the first overwhelming sign—
how much and how suddenly he had aged. I knew that Marino was no
longer a young man, but it was not the calm approach of old age which was
divulged, in the presence of this earthen face, this heavily motionless mask,
by the warning that rose from my own flesh. Rather he seemed to be one of
those legendary kings sleeping for centuries in some cavern who waken
from a magic slumber only to fall into dust and to perish in an instant—as if
time, through him, had changed rhythm and speed, had suddenly come
loose before my eyes. This scarred face absorbed my gaze not like the
remote envelope of mists in which our way will some day be lost, but like
the crevice left in the middle of the road by an earthquake.
As the tiny group filed out of the cemetery, I saw the captain lingering
among the graves as if he were waiting for me; he joined me in front of the

gate; we were alone—in the empty enclosure behind us, the indifferent
wind was already beginning to stir the sand.
“Let’s walk back along the beach, Aldo, all right?” he said, sliding his
arm into mine with a familiar gesture. “My legs don’t feel so strong, you
know?” He gave me a wink that did not take me in: “It must be from riding
that damn horse so long; a sailor on horseback is always bad news.”
We walked a minute in silence. This solitude seemed to absorb all sound,
as the sands absorbed the rain; already the cortege had melted away into the
skimpy grass. Soon the desolate arc of the beach stretched before us, almost
level with the waves. Flocks of sea birds landed here and flew up,
undulating over the damp ramparts of sand like a light mist; the benumbed
earth had never stirred here, except for this faint palpitation. Marino knew
how much I enjoyed roaming these washed-out, deserted beaches, but this
afternoon their very impoverishment did not distract me. I was attentive to
one thing only: the weight of an arm which now pressed more heavily on
my own. My mouth felt dry and my throat painfully choked. Marino was
suffering—with that stupefying suffering of dumb beasts that seems to have
reached us from another world. An impression of anguish came to me from
that arm, sometimes relaxed and then suddenly stiffened by an
awkwardness, which lay against my own with an oppressive animality.
“How was your little tour, Aldo—everything go all right?” he asked, his
voice almost timid.
“A little longer than expected, I’m afraid ... I have something to tell you
that you’re not going to like,” I added in a hard tone of voice. “The run
wasn’t kept to—we went as far as the opposite shore.”
Marino turned toward me suddenly. At that moment I realized that he
knew, and yet in spite of himself his eyes fastened on mine, with a kind of
dry relief. “Over there, yes, I know,” he said with an effort, his voice
labored. “They fired at you.”
“Do you want an accounting?” I asked, nervously compressing my lips,
and I could feel the nape of my neck prickling, as if someone had asked me
to stand at attention. I realized with despair how badly the conversation had

begun, and how much it was my fault that it had. Marino felt this too, and
dismissed formalities with a shrug of his shoulder against mine.
“Some people might find it useful. What does it matter?” he went on with
a strange expression that erased me from his gaze. “I’ve always known
you’d go over there ... It’s really too bad,” he resumed after a pause, his
voice absolutely expressionless. I was struck once again by his suddenly
senile behavior: as if the mouth, in this straightforward old man, no longer
answered for the words spoken.
“Why did you let me take that patrol?”
Marino seemed to ponder for a moment, with great effort. “I asked you to
go,” he said in a voice that was almost apologetic. “Don’t you remember?”
“If you knew I’d go over there, then you knew before I did. When we
began hearing those rumors, you’re the one who advised ... or permitted me
—yes; that’s what I thought, I’m sure of it—to write to Orsenna.”
Once again Marino seemed to search his memories with tremendous
effort. “Yes, perhaps,” he said at last, his voice thoughtful. “I’m very much
to blame in all this. I was hoping ...” He made a dismissive gesture with his
hand, a gesture of childish discouragement. “... I was thinking they’d calm
you down in the right way. I was hoping for help. I didn’t think the trouble
had gone so far.”
“What do you mean?” I asked abruptly, and almost stopped where I
stood, struck by the tone of muffled grief in his last words.
“They’re getting rid of me,” he said, turning his head away. “By the day
after tomorrow, I’ll have left the Admiralty for the last time.”
At first the words reverberated in my head, meaningless as pebbles
shaken in an empty box. Then a hollow formed in my stomach, and I felt
myself invaded by that sickening sensation common in dreams, when you
feel the railing over an abyss give way under your fingers, inch by inch.
“They can’t do that,” I said, and felt my face go white.
“Let’s sit here a minute, all right? The wind’s dying down,” the captain
said. He seemed to be cheering up a little.

The afternoon was drawing in, but it was still fine out here on the warm
sand. Once we sat down, the landscape around us vanished as if we had
ducked into a trench. Above us, flocks of sea birds, flying up with the tide,
kept passing over with a single deafening shriek. On that causeway
hemmed in by the waves, it was really impossible to be more isolated, and
for the first time I realized how alien this eccentric promenade was to
Marino’s habits. More and more it seemed to me that there was an
unaccustomed clumsiness in his too carefully monitored gestures—
something imperceptibly borrowed. As if the captain were playing a part.
The visor of his service cap pulled down over his forehead, he was staring
out to sea; mechanically, one hand poured a handful of sand through the
fingers of the other.
“You knew what the navigation rules in Syrtes were, didn’t you?” he
finally asked, coughing to clear his throat. “This is just a formality I have to
clear up,” he added hurriedly, “but things need to be settled: I have to send
in a report myself.”
“I’m ready to clear you in writing from any responsibility,” I said as
deferentially as I could. “What I did was done quite knowingly—quite
intentionally.”
Marino turned his face toward me as if he had been moved by clockwork.
“Intentionally?” he repeated pensively, and I noticed he was having trouble
breathing. “... You don’t know what you’re saying,” he added, and he shook
his head with a bitter expression.
“You told Fabrizio that once, and you believed it,” I said gently, for the
pained sadness in his voice just then filled me with pity. “Fabrizio was a
child. But to me—you don’t believe what you’re saying.”
The old man raised his transparent eyes to meet mine. “I’m very fond of
you, Aldo,” he said with a kind of embarrassment, “don’t you realize that I
care so much about you because I know you better than you think? At your
age, you don’t like finding excuses for yourself, because you’re never sure
of being as compromised as you’d like by what you do. Try to speak
without pride, in a moment when you’re in great danger of being judged.”

“Who’ll be the judge?” I said with an unconvincing shrug, for Marino’s
tone had suddenly become remarkably firm. “I must account for my actions
to other people,” I added, turning my head away. “I hate having to do so for
the first time just when we’re leaving each other.”
Marino went pale, and his gaze met mine with a gleam of arrogant
severity. “I’m not talking about the Signory. The Signory has its business,
and you know what it is, I suppose, better than I do ... Whatever I have to
tell you about that will keep. I’m talking about Orsenna.”
“About—or for?”
The old man seemed to meditate so intensely for a moment that his hand
trailed at his side like an abandoned oar, mechanically tracing a little furrow
in the sand. “Blood isn’t everything, Aldo,” he said in a slow, serious voice.
“Yours is hot, and we all know the quality of your birth. I’ve grown old
here,” he went on, a remote, almost misty expression in his eyes. “This is
my territory: I can move around in it with my eyes closed and name each
lump of earth. That’s why I have something to tell you today. This earth
isn’t just another card in a gambler’s hand.”
“I wasn’t alone on the Redoubtable,” I said after a moment’s silence. “At
the point we had reached here, you know as well as I that something would
have happened in any case ...You’re blaming me for an inevitability,” I
added with a touch of grandiloquence, and instantly felt that I was blushing
despite myself.
“There are inevitabilities which deserve hanging,” the old man broke in
with singular intensity, “when there’s still time for that. I don’t mean you,
Aldo,” he added in an awkward voice, “you know that.” He calmed me with
an extenuating gesture. “You couldn’t live here?” he asked, staring at me
with an expression of curiosity both intense and timid. It was as if clumsily,
desperately, he had determined to knock at a closed door, trying to adjust
his myopic eye to a chink that looked through to the other side.
“No,” I said, “I couldn’t. Maremma couldn’t either, and neither could old
Carlo.”

I saw the old man’s eyes darken. “Old Carlo ... Yes,” he said, suddenly
pensive; “it was ever since then that I’ve been scared. Something broke that
day—like a landslide. But why?” He looked at me blankly, with the docile,
lost expression of a faithful dog watching a gesture of its master’s that it
doesn’t understand.
“Hard to say ...” I looked away and also began starting out to sea, more
embarrassed than I could tell him by this confidence and this humility. “...
Is it possible you lived here years and years knowing there was ... that over
there—as if it was nothing in particular?”
“I have no taste for things that are distant—things that are dubious,”
Marino said more firmly. “The thread was broken: so much the better, if it
was. That was all long before my time, and it could last till long after.
That’s how it was. There was Orsenna, and then the Admiralty, and then the
sea ...” the old man said as though to himself, squinting in the salt wind.
“And after that ... nothing?”
“And after that nothing,” he said, turning toward me and looking straight
into my eyes. “Why go on worrying about what no longer asks anything of
you?”
“The Admiralty, and then the sea, and then nothing ...” I repeated and
glanced at him in perplexity. “Yesterday, and then today, and then tonight ...
and then nothing?”
“You find that absurd because you’re young,” Marino replied with a
strange intensity in his voice. “I’m old now, and the city’s very old too.
There comes a time when happiness—when tranquility—means having
used up many things around you, worn them out by having rubbed up
against them so long, too long—by thinking about them too much. That’s
what they call the egoism of the old,” he added with a kind of anxious
smile: “they’ve only become thicker because so many things around them
have become thinner. They don’t wear out,” the captain nodded stubbornly:
“it’s things around them that they wear out.”
“Orsenna couldn’t live forever with its head in the sand,” I snapped.
“You’re the only one who’s been able to live here without choking to

death,” I went on in a kind of rage. “Even Fabrizio left whenever he could.
He didn’t know why, but he left. Even old Carlo would have gone, you
know. It wasn’t ... possible any more.”
“Yes it was, Aldo,” the voice answered in a tone of wise tranquility, “it
was possible. You can’t understand because you’re not from around here.
But for those of us who’ve taken the blood in our veins from Orsenna—to
what is elsewhere, to what will come later—it’s a great feat just to be. Here.
Now. Orsenna’s where things have ended,” Marino continued, nodding with
a gesture of insistent and heavy certainty. “Orsenna had stopped having
anything to think about. It endured, eyes open.”
“Hardly,” I answered bitterly. “You’re giving it too much credit. The
dead, too, if you don’t touch them, keep their eyes open. Orsenna was
sleeping with its eyes open.”
“But forever,” the old man said, in a tone of invocation or prayer, his
gaze sliding out to sea. “You don’t know what a deliverance that is: a state
beyond which there’s ... nothing.”
His hand made a gesture toward the beach. The sea was rising, already
sending flat ripples of foam close to us as it rustled over the sand.
“A land where it’s good to lie down and go to sleep,” he added, lost in
that heavy and almost organic reverie which seemed to signify the extreme
limit of his attention. And then he said, in a kind of daze: “... When they lay
me in it, I think I’ll pull it over my face with both hands, and it won’t weigh
on me at all, light as it is with all the weight I’ve taken out of it.”
I nodded toward the cemetery. On the low horizon, it was no more than a
black line above the sands. “There’s Orsenna!” I said, taking his arm.
“Wherever it’s sown its graveyard dirt. Is that what you’re protecting?”
“It’s endured,” the old man repeated, a religious tremor in his voice. He
turned his eyes to me—the murky eyes of a blind man. “... Here, when a
body falls into the grave, there are a hundred million bones that shudder all
the way down to the bottom, the way a mother feels her dead child weigh
on top of her in the earth. There’s no other eternal life.”

“Yes there is,” I said, going pale, “there’s another life. But there’s a curse
on the last born of a city that’s too old.”
“It isn’t old,” the old man interrupted in a dry voice. “It’s ageless—like
me.”
He murmured between his teeth, as though to himself, the city’s motto.
And for a second I was dazed, my eyes blinked; for a second it seemed that
what he was saying was true, and that the heavy silhouette, in all its
formidable immobility, was going numb—petrifying before my eyes.
“I don’t think we have much more to say to each other,” I observed,
standing up and nervously dusting myself off.
We resumed walking in silence. The sun was already very low; over the
flat land, the red horizon was blurred with fog; this heralded a spell of those
dry, bright days, clear as a pane of glass and filled with the hot breath of the
desert. Along the narrow strip of dry sand the rising tide left at the foot of
the dunes, we walked on without saying a word, hurrying now to be done
with it.
“Let’s go to the fortress,” Marino said suddenly. “I have some things to
show you; you’ll be in command here after I leave, until my successor
arrives. They’re sending us reinforcements,” he added in a perfectly neutral
tone of voice. “Two gunboats—they’ll be here in eight days, I’m told, and
the artillery will be put in working order. Which will require some work
here—provisions to get in, and temporary lodgings for the men ...”
“Reinforcements ...” I said, glancing at him with disbelief. “Do they
anticipate ... ?”
“I don’t know,” he interrupted more gravely. “No one’s told me anything.
Something’s happened at Orsenna ... It was as if I were talking to people I
didn’t know—strangers ...”
“What do you mean?” But I stopped: the distress in that pathetic voice
warned me that Marino was asking me for help.
“Something’s changed at Orsenna,” the old man went on. He shook his
shoulders slowly with a wretched, chilly gesture.

“At the top?”
“No, not at the top, Aldo, that I know of ...” He lowered his head and let
his chin rest on his chest. “... It’s the heart: the heart’s giving out, the way it
does before a storm, when a nasty wind comes up. You don’t know the
desert just before a sandstorm ... Your eyes sting, your blood blinds you,
you can’t see clearly any more. Your nerves knot up, your throat goes dry,
you stare at the horizon and long for the storm to break ...” Mechanically
the old man squinted into the wind, as though to examine the foggy horizon.
“... It’s a bad time,” he went on. “Our crews, when we used to hire them
from the Syrtes farms, would call it sand lather.” Marino sighed and was
silent for a moment. “... But you—maybe you’ll know,” he said at last with
a touch of deference, even timidity in his voice. “They’ll listen to you at the
Signory. I’ve brought the mail—there’s a summons for you.”
“Concerning ... ?”
“Concerning what you know perfectly well. The Council of
Superintendance wants to have you sent back.” The name fell from his lips
with the nuance almost ritually attached, at Orsenna, to the evocation of a
dreaded and unknown power.
“Then it’s serious?” I said in a troubled tone, my eyes questioning him.
“Yes,” Marino said, pausing and slowly raising his eyes to meet mine as
if he were recognizing my features one by one in the light of a lantern.
“And considering who you are, I’m surprised they’re sending for you.
Usually the Council deliberates only on documents. Everything will be
decided on that day.”
In Marino’s eyes I saw a darker gleam—a world of troubled feelings:
panic before the unknown power, and at the same time a kind of anguished
veneration in the presence of someone about to see it face to face; as if,
through me, he had almost touched, with blind adoration, the City’s
supreme power, its blackest heart.
“... Don’t you have something more to tell them?” he asked, in a voice
that faltered in spite of himself. “Not everything’s been said ... I beg you ...”
he ended, lowering his eyes.

“What’s there to say?” I shrugged my shoulders involuntarily. “... There’s
a time to interfere with things and a time to let things alone. What’s come
has made use of me, and now it’s leaving me: everything will work out
now, without me.”
We started walking again. The captain had recovered his silence, as if he
henceforth regarded everything as said.
At this late hour of the day, in winter, it was already dark in the fortress
corridors. Marino, still without a word, lit the lantern hanging in the guard
room, and at the glow which barely penetrated the yellowish mist, I seemed
to read in his face and in the feverish gesture of his hand striking a light the
signs of an unwonted nervousness. As always in winter, despite Fabrizio’s
repairs, the walls were streaming with a cold sweat, and once or twice I
distinctly saw Marino’s shoulders shiver under his heavy greatcoat.
“Let’s come back tomorrow,” I said. “There’s no hurry. It’s freezing
tonight.”
“No,” the captain muttered between his teeth without even turning his
head. “This will be over soon enough.”
The glow from the lantern scarcely penetrated the milky darkness, but all
at once the outline of the high vaults rose over us through the dark, in the
hollow vibration of voices echoing like broken glass. “Not that this is a very
hospitable sort of place tonight ...” he added in a voice which rang out
complacently, as if he were showing these great halls to some tourist. He
seemed restored to an expansive and almost alarming good humor. “... But
it’s my last round. And then,” he added, glancing at me obliquely as he
swung the lantern, “it seems to me you used to like it.” He suddenly halted,
and his lantern, raised now, faintly illuminated a cartouche carved in the
wall.
“... ‘In sanguine vivo’ ...” he made out, as if he were deciphering the
syllables one by one. The rest was lost in a vague and prolonged murmur.
This time there was something so distinctly abnormal in his behavior that I
felt almost annoyed.
“Well?” I asked, staring at him with a barely polite impatience.

“The meaning’s not clear, Aldo,” he said, touching my arm, his voice
guttural: “Haven’t you ever noticed? The meaning could be either that the
City survives in its people, or else that it requires the sacrifice of blood ...”
“This is hardly the time for an exegesis, is it?” I broke in, increasingly
annoyed. With every minute I felt less comfortable. There was something
fixed and lugubrious in Marino’s eyes—was it a reflection of this ghostly
lighting?—which belied his nonsensical conversation. The lantern, set
down on the floor between us, scarcely drew our faces out of the aureole of
mist; our long shadows arched up high into the vaults—cold drops ran from
their stones, one by one, between my coat collar and my neck.
“As you like,” the old man said, suddenly compliant. He picked up the
lantern again and went on walking, his long strides irregular—on humid
days, the captain favored an old wound; once again our shadows swayed
above us. Marino opened the doors one by one without a word, thrusting
keys into rusty locks with a great clatter of cold metal: a dense smell of
mildew and rusty iron met our noses, like a gust from those sealed
fortifications opened after centuries; a cold unleavened stench that turned
the stomach, flavored by centuries of poisonous rot. I followed Marino from
battery to battery without a word, our heavy boots pressing a pestilential
spongy litter. The lantern’s wick sputtered and smoked in the nauseating air,
and vague shadows swarmed over the filthy vaults. There was a kind of
funereal omen, as if a giant had been disturbed in his heavy sleep and
suddenly gave off this intimate coffin-stench, so sharp in our nostrils we
could scarcely breathe.
“The smell of Orsenna,” I murmured, my voice hostile.
Marino swung his lantern without a word, and suddenly there appeared
on his lips—or reappeared—a strange smile, the one he had shown in the
map room. “We still have to inspect the platform battery,” he said in a
sleepy voice. “Those are the pieces they want to replace.”
It was very difficult, in that labyrinth of ramps and stairs, ever to know
just which floor you were on, once you had made your way into the interior
of the place; but suddenly, to my astonishment, our coats flapped in the sea

wind: what I took on my left for doorways, deceived by their shadowy
depressions, was a row of abandoned gunports. Marino set his lantern down
on a lump of darkness which barred our way; the wind suddenly shook the
flame, and a ray of light slid down a metal barrel: even before recognizing
the cannon and the platform, I realized where, after so many twists and
turns, the captain had brought me.
“Tonight’s calm, but the wind will come up tomorrow,” Marino said
mechanically, in his most incontrovertible tone, leaning out and sniffing the
air even so; but the place and the moment paralyzed my impulse to smile.
The night had fallen completely now, and it was very dark, but beneath
us, through the bluish mist, rose a pungent, moist breath and a faint murmur
of water, like the rustling of poplar leaves. Leaning out of the port, I could
see to our right the motionless light on the jetty: occasionally a gleam,
reflected off the coal heap, pierced the vacant night. It was as if the
darkness would never end: everything rested in the black intimacy of a bell
of shadows; the sleeping lights navigated the mist with a star’s calm and
fixity. Nothing had happened: the Admiralty was regaining the
inexpressible tranquility of things at anchor.
“Remember the night when I came to find you in the map room,” Marino
asked in a low but distinct voice.
“As I do the day you brought me here ...” I turned toward Marino. In the
half-darkness it was hard to make him out. “There’s something I’ve always
wondered: what was it that struck you so that night?”
“Your look—the way you looked at things,” Marino said in a very
explicit tone. “It wakened too many things. I didn’t like that look of yours
.... All the same I was very fond of you, Aldo,” he suddenly said, with an
unaccustomed seriousness, as if he were offering testimony.
I glanced away, strangely moved, and stared out to sea. “You’re right,” I
said, “there wasn’t room for both of us here.”
“No,” he said in an awkward voice. “There wasn’t room.”
There were a few seconds of silence. Suddenly I felt a kind of prickling
in the nape of my neck which spread to my shoulders, as if the barrel of a

weapon had been trained there, at the same time that a brutal and imminent
sensation of danger cramped my chest. Instinctively I threw myself on the
floor, grabbing the low parapet at the very edge of the abyss. At the same
moment something stumbled against my leg with a heavy breath, then
swayed above me, scraping along the rim. Huddled against the stone, my
head pulled between my shoulders, my heart stopped beating for a moment
of supernatural silence, then, with a flabby noise, a body heavily slapped
the calm waters.
I remained motionless for a few moments. Leaning over the gulf, the
absolute silence that had closed over itself like a trapdoor and the torpor
which benumbed my brain made me raise my hand toward my head with a
mechanical gesture, as if a hood had been dropped over it. Then I slowly
stood up again, and with a gesture of absurd incredulity, I gently raised the
lantern above my head. The yellow light slid over the slimy stones, and
brutally silhouetted the empty gunport against the night, its emptiness so
intriguing that I groped with my free hand, in a blind gesture, along the
stone rim, as though in front of a frame behind which the wall had revealed
a secret panel. There was no one there.
The searching went on late into the night. The pinnaces from the wharf
were unmoored, and all the available vessels at the Admiralty, even the
lifeboats of the Redoubtable which the emergency crew, alerted by calls
from shore, had lowered into the sea of their own accord. Standing bolt
upright in the prow of a boat, with his torch flashing in the heavy air, a man
occasionally rose up out of the mist like a ghost gliding over the calm oily
waters; for a long time the guttural calls, in which anguish gradually gave
way to a still-incredulous resignation, passed each other in the calm night.
The body did not reappear; according to Giovanni and, as the search turned
out to be increasingly futile, to almost all the others, the captain’s heavy
clothes and boots must have dragged him under immediately after he had
lost consciousness—down to the muddy bottom of the lagoon, from which
no body, in living memory, had ever risen again—and no one seemed to
doubt the explanation of the accident I had immediately given: in other

words, that the captain, trying to step around the cannon’s chassis, had
slipped on the wet stones. A deeper meaning was attached, for me, to this
disappearance without a trace; to me it seemed that the captain, who had
never quite lived at the Admiralty but more properly had haunted it in the
fashion of a torpid genie of earth, had passed into the heart of this black
night and of this sleeping lagoon in a manner too suspicious not to have
become one of those signs to which life at the Admiralty had given me a
clue—as if the very spirit of these heavy waters and these rotting stones, a
spirit in which time itself had seemed to benumb its rhythm, had regained at
the appointed hour and at the chosen place the refuge of the black depths in
order to seal over itself their sanction and their sleep.
OceanofPDF.com

12
The Secret Towers of the City
I reached Orsenna at the end of a sullen afternoon. Jolting over the sodden
roads had put me in a wretched humor; the solitude and dilapidation of the
waste stretches the car had passed through, by daylight this time, for hours
on end, filled me with grim forebodings: at the very moment when Orsenna
may have been approaching its final hour, in the rainy grisaille of its
deserted roads, in the aspect of the tumbledown sheepfolds huddled in
hollows of the terrain, I seemed to read how impoverished and weak the
City was—as if I could feel passing over it, with the wind which swept
these shivering plains, Destruction’s very wing. Even my gaze seemed to
have changed: what I now saw in these miserable landscapes was no longer
the city’s ubiquitous talons sunk deep in the soft earth, and everywhere so
patient an effacement of the accidental and the illusory that the earth’s worn
surface seemed to reveal a semblance of eternity. Today this same earth
timidly shrank beneath a sky laden with dull clouds, as if suddenly it had
taken all the room there was, and the prostrate life of these solitudes, buried
in too much memory, finally turned its blind gaze up toward those touseled
shapes, those omens which coursed over it with the wind. Sometimes little
groups would be standing near the shabby post offices where we would stop
to take on mail; sunk in the inert rumination of plains shepherds, perhaps
they had spent the night there, swathed in the heavy blankets that served
them as cloaks, motionless as statues under the streaming rain. They would
not speak, would not even look up—a tiny runnel of water overflowed their
hatbrims and trickled down their noses as over the marble lip of a fountain;
only when the car slowly moved on would they turn their blank eyes in our
direction. From the mud that covered them, one assumed some of them had
covered great distances to reach the road, and their mute vigil, while the

men were busy around the car, made me uncomfortable; it seemed as if the
whole country was mysteriously on the lookout behind those fixed pupils.
“What are they doing here?” I asked one of the postmasters—a man
almost as muddy as the shepherds—while the mail sacks were being
loaded.
He shrugged with an exasperated expression: “Oh, rumors! rumors! ...
It’s all nonsense!” he added, raising his voice, his hands on his hips, staring
angrily at the group. “Sometimes it’s hard to tell what’s going on in those
pitiful minds,” he whispered in my ear, his tone suddenly confidential:
“they live in such isolation out there ... The way you see them now, these
fellows are waiting for the end of the world, if you please, or might as well
be ... Oh, work doesn’t hang heavy on their hands, you can say that for
them. They’ve all seen signs in the moon ... Isn’t that right, Fausto?”
He slapped one of the shepherds on the shoulder and winked at me. The
shepherd shook his head gravely.
“Yes, signs ...” he said, his voice like a rusty key turning in the lock.
“Evil omens ... Death—” he went on, shaking his head, with a childish
singsong voice that was louder now—“death in the fire that will come over
the water. Orsenna is doomed in seven times seven days.”
“All right, now clear out of here, you worthless beggars!” the postmaster
shouted, beside himself. He began throwing stones at them. Dragging their
feet, as if it were merely raining a little harder now, the group moved a few
yards off, and once again froze in its tableau of stupefied expectation.
“We can’t drive them away from the road!” The official wiped his
forehead, his face crimson. “Old crows!” he screamed at them, furious.
“‘Death in the fire that will come over the water.’ They make my flesh
creep, with all that,” he continued, suddenly ill at ease. “I know nothing
happens here, no one ever comes ... But I myself—there are moments when
I begin staring at the bend in the road, in spite of myself.”
The car started up. Behind me, I saw the postmaster throwing more
stones at the shepherds, without conviction—out of habit, it seemed. The

blankets scarcely moved, and I realized that the scene was not a new one.
This man, too, had found his drug.
I reached Orsenna late in the evening. The avenues under their vaults of
trees seemed abandoned and chilly; I remember thinking that the city was
shutting itself up earlier than usual. In the lower town, the mist from the
swamps was already filling the streets: the familiar rotting smell passed
over my face like the touch of a blind hand and gave me a pang—I had
returned. No sooner had the car stopped in front of the house than my father
and Orlando appeared behind the grille, while several shutters gaped in the
houses nearby. From those piercing looks and the feverishness of my
father’s hands as they fumbled with the lock, I realized how apprehensively
I had been awaited: in living memory my father had never come in person
to open his door to a visitor.
“At last you’re here!” he said, seizing my hands with an emotion he
could not master as he led me toward the house with great strides.
Instinctively, Orlando fell back behind us, intimidated, as if making way for
the principal actor; his gaze felt heavy on the nape of my neck, full of
embarrassment, respect, and gravity.
Approaching Orsenna, I had grown increasingly nervous about this
meeting with my father; knowing his hot temper and his attachment to the
city’s policy of official inertia, I had feared that the old man, who could no
longer be unaware of my lapses, would burst into furious reproaches;
already I was gritting my teeth against the rather theatrical pathos his
remonstrances always betrayed; in his relations with me (and nothing had
done more to dispel any sort of familiarity on my side) my father had
always preferred to play to the gallery, and I was only too aware of the
temptation afforded by the role of a father welcoming the prodigal son. I
waited, nerves on edge, for a storm that never broke. After I had been
served a summary meal, the three of us sat down near the fire; there then
occurred a rather heavy silence—my father lit a cigar, an unwonted sign of
a scarcely contained excitement, and I noticed that the almost disconcerting
vivacity of his blue eyes made him look much younger. He seemed to be

forcing himself to avoid any sudden gestures, and I realized that I had been
mistaken about his impatience; he was glad to see me: in his occasional
possessive glances, there was an indulgent satisfaction, as if a precious
piece from his collections had just been returned to its cabinet.
“It appears there’s a great deal of talk about you these days, Aldo,” he
said at last, his eyes narrowing as if he were repressing an almost childlike
pleasure with enormous effort. “You’ve set many tongues wagging here—
the ones that like to wag, wouldn’t you say, Orlando?” he inquired, taking
his cigar out of his mouth. His eyes were dancing. Orlando solemnly
acquiesced. Coming from my father—who did his thinking, one might say,
in public, and whose fine bass voice seemed to have been created only to
give the conventional note its organ tones—such a welcome offered food
for thought. I mused on what Vanessa had said about the wind that was
blowing over the city.
“What do people here really think about this business?” I asked in a tone
less uncertain than might have been expected, and then, determined to play
the game, I produced a sigh intended to illustrate my sleepless nights. My
father loved nothing so much as to explain to people the situations they
would by nature understand much better than he. “... At the Admiralty, no
one can make it out.”
The old man coughed to clear his throat and assumed his augural
attitude, which is to say that his modestly downcast gaze now fastened itself
on the ceiling with an expression of deep thought and diplomatic finesse.
“The Admiralty is an executive organ,” he began with a touch of indulgence
which served to put matters in their place, “whose opinion no one would
dream of asking. Moreover, since my extremely modest functions have
terminated, officially speaking, I am no longer privy to the Council’s
secrets.” (The tone and the familiar reference implied—quite mistakenly—
that nothing of the kind was the case.) “I can only give you the free and
independent reaction—absolutely free, if you understand what I mean,
which commits no one—” (and in his voice appeared the energetic tremolo

of a Cincinnatus returned to his plow) “of a considerably experienced mind
which has weathered many a storm.”
Not yet certain of his new audience, he turned toward Orlando, from
whose resigned expression I realized that for the last week he must have
had to play, however reluctantly, the part of audience to this well-rehearsed
eloquence.
“... Your friend Orlando, who will one day be a guiding light of our
Signory but who is meanwhile still content to draw upon an old man’s
experience, knows what I think about this matter: there is a middle way to
take between the reefs among which I cannot watch the Signory navigating
without anxiety. Yes, Aldo,” he admitted in an impulse of concern, “today is
not the first time I have permitted myself to deplore that traditions—quite
respectable ones, of course—have a little too frequently authorized the
Signory to mistake inertia for prudence. A new day is dawning for
Orsenna,” he went on in a firm tone which read the future like an open
book, “and the Signory owes it to itself to confront every occasion without
unnecessary excitement, but with the necessary initiative—nuanced with a
certain reserve, I fully concur ... Our blood must be young, albeit
experienced. Let us not deceive ourselves: the situation is serious, though
hardly critical. And I fear that a staff trained in the routines of another age
may no longer be equal to the task which the present moment quite
incontrovertibly imposes: the task of re-con-sid-er-ing the situation in the
light of new developments. Moreover, as I have told your friend Orlando
more than once, it was childish to bury our heads in the sand and suppose
that such developments would allow themselves to be postponed
indefinitely. We have not been timely in understanding,” he continued with
a sarcastic glance, “the lesson of iam proximus ardet Ucalegon. For my
part, I had always supposed it would come to this. What was required was a
decision: now it is upon us, and what do we see?” He paused for effect. “...
A stone has fallen in our garden, and now all our frogs are croaking as
though in a swamp. Where is the ‘know in order to foresee, and foresee in

order to provide’ which is the rule of all good diplomacy? Has our inertia
not bordered upon frivolity?”
Anticipating that this flood might continue for some time longer, I
offered my exhaustion as an excuse and stood up without excessive
politeness. Orlando hurriedly imitated me. The old man, after a moment’s
hesitation, tugged my arm with a timid gesture. Orlando realized that his
presence was inopportune and preceded me down the corridor.
“... A summons has come for you here. The Council has set your hearing
for the day after tomorrow,” my father murmured rapidly. He coughed, and
his embarrassed eyes avoided mine. Again his voice became hasty and
stammering: “... I wanted to tell you, Aldo, since you will doubtless have
occasion to see my old friend Danielo tomorrow ... a friend of thirty years
... But we haven’t seen much of each other lately ... I wanted to tell you that
I gladly authorize you ... ummm ... observing the necessary discretion, of
course—whatever strikes you as suitable—to inform him of our
conversation this evening. And to inform him, I mean ... to remind him that
every man of feeling closes ranks with the Signory ... What I mean is ... that
I am at the City’s service in these grave circumstances, though they are
scarcely critical, are they? Of great concern, though scarcely critical,
remember that. The situation requires courage, a cool head, equilibrium ...
and experience. And boldness!” he added after a pause.
I rejoined Orlando down the corridor.
“He’s beginning to fail quite noticeably,” he whispered to me in a neutral
tone, “but you can see that the weathervane still turns with the wind.”
“Is this what we’ve come to ... ?” I asked, taking his arm with an habitual
gesture which gave me some comfort, for I found this sudden and senile
collapse dreadfully embarrassing.
“Yes,” Orlando said. “‘A new day is dawning for Orsenna.’ By which
your father means a second career for himself, but I suspect that there’s
something wrong in all this ...”
“You mean something’s actually going to be done?” I felt my heart
beginning to beat faster. Orlando stopped and gave me a thoughtful stare.

Darkness had fallen now, an indolent breeze rustled the trees in the garden
we were walking through, and their branches rained heavy drops upon us.
Orlando’s courteous and friendly voice retained a cool accent, and I felt he
was hesitant to speak.
“... Whether or not your behavior in this ... episode was prompted by
higher authorities—which I have no means of knowing,” he began in a
careful tone, “the skirmish itself is a trifle which, considered objectively,
cannot take us far. Moreover I have no specific notion of the Signory’s
intentions, though God knows no one here has been reticent about
announcing what they ought to be. But the atmosphere is sinister ... The odd
thing is—and it’s quite disturbing,” he continued, lowering his eyes and
playing with his watch-chain, “that so few people here, on hearing the
news, can consider the episode objectively.”
“Orsenna is very bored, I know,” I said, shrugging without conviction.
“Yes, strange to say, the news has been regarded as good news,” Orlando
observed thoughtfully. “You know,” he went on, forcing himself to smile,
“down there in your Admiralty you’ve become quite a fashionable figure ...
Your father had every reason to ask you for a recommendation to the
Signory.”
“It seems to me,” I said as ironically as I could manage, “that in the old
days we didn’t pay so much attention to what was said in the streets. I think
I remember the old theories. Something about airtight compartments ... The
subtlest consciousness removing to the heights—wasn’t that it?”
“It’s just what’s said in the streets that worries me,” Orlando replied in a
preoccupied tone. “Usually, what comes through are rumors about what’s
going on at the Signory, and I’m in a better position than most to set them
straight. Granted, our State secrets had assumed a rather anodyne character
—you remember how we used to laugh at them at the Academy ... Well,
that’s all changed now. For some time there’s been a kind of isolation, a
withdrawal ... You must have noticed how deeply hurt your father is at not
being able to approach old Danielo any more ...”
“I’ll be seeing him the day after tomorrow.”

Orlando met my eyes. “God knows I don’t think we should give this
business any more importance than it deserves ... Yet I feel like doing just
that. And more than one man around here would envy you, too.”
“You’ve regressed to idol worship, Orlando?”
“Not exactly,” he answered, frowning. “Jokes are all very well, but they
don’t mean the same thing any more. There are days when a man jokes in
the consciousness of his power, and days when a man makes jokes the way
he whistles in the dark. I used the word importance: maybe we’re learning
all over again what power really is ...” Orlando broke off and rested one
hand on my shoulder. I realized we were about to part company. “Look
around you, now that you’re going to be in the city a few days. Nothing’s
changed, and yet it’s as if the lighting weren’t the same ... There’s a new
glow on certain peaks, the way there is on the tips of lightning rods when a
storm is on its way: as if the whole earth were concentrating all its energies
to release the lightning. Men and things are still the same, yet everything
has changed. Look carefully.”
I spent almost the whole of the next two days in the city. News of my
return had spread quickly; my friends were eager to see me, I was even—to
my surprise—included in circles traditionally closed to my family, but it
seemed that in Orsenna certain social taboos were losing their rigor.
Everyone’s curiosity was focused on my remote expedition; I said little,
taking refuge behind the report I would first have to make to the Signory.
Usually, when I appeared in the salons, a sudden silence occurred, and from
the look of excitement I could detect on people’s faces it seemed to me that
this ominous impulse was welcomed as a fresh wind, and that I left my
hosts inexplicably reassured by my visit; sometimes, when I did speak, I
surprised expressions on their faces I had never seen before: their eyes
appeared strained by the effort of an unfamiliar accommodation trained on a
point so remote from their normal field of vision that, as in cases of extreme
fatigue, they assumed a disarmed and unwonted expression of absence.
Especially the women abandoned themselves to such lapses without
reserve; noticing the sparkle in their eyes magnetized by my tale, and the

resentment I could read in the men’s, I realized that women possess a
greater stock of feeling and effervescence to which the usual course of life
gives no outlet and which is released only by the profound revolutions
which change our hearts, the ones which in order to occur require long
immersion in the blind warmth of a confinement: thus the aura which halos
great historical parturitions can be discerned first of all in women’s
prophetic eyes. I realized now why Vanessa had been given to me as a
guide, and why, once I was in her sway, the daylight part of my mind had
been so worthless: she belonged to the sex which presses so hard at the
gates of anguish, to the mysteriously docile sex that already consents to
whatever looms beyond catastrophe and darkness.
I was astonished to realize, in the course of overheard conversations, how
little critical reflection was being attached to what was known—quite
inaccurately and quite imperfectly (the version Vanessa’s people circulated
had done its work)—as the Syrtes Incident, and how seldom, to my relief
even more than to my surprise, people were concerned to assign
responsibilities with any sense of impartiality. Meticulous sifting of past
priorities and merits had hitherto constituted the common basis of all our
political meditations: each man, daunted by the almost materially perceived
weight of centuries devoted to the accumulation of an incomparable mass of
wealth and experience, regarded and conducted himself more or less
instinctively as an heir. Familiarity—experienced more vividly than
elsewhere—and a virtual connivance with a long long line of ancestors,
blinding us to all spontaneous variation, stultified any reasoning which was
not engrossed by consideration of that immutable and fertile past whose
lengthening procession seemed in and of itself to grant each man his true
weight: all parties in Orsenna, without exception, were parties of historical
rights. Having been away so long, I was all the more struck by what seemed
insidiously different about the present perspective. The moment was
committed to an open credit rather than to the scrupulous settling of
accounts. New and sometimes disconcerting faces of bold speakers were to
be encountered in the city’s most exclusive circles, to which a worldly
passport no longer seemed required, and it was almost alarming to see what

credence they met with upon divulging and unhesitatingly discussing the—
crudely inaccurate—resolutions they attributed to the Signory, provided
they were of a nature to inflame the imagination.
A need for the unheard-of seemed to have seized on people’s minds, a
craving which produced, in this ancient and skeptical capital, something
like a sharper resonance in the emotive tide which had already submerged
Maremma; it was as if each man delighted, upon reaching the air of the
summit, to feel his imagination freer and more alert than he had supposed
possible, and the last thing one would have thought to query, apropos of the
fantastic rumors that ran through the town almost by the hour, was their
origin: the instantaneous speed of their transmission by hundreds of mouths
gave them, in and of itself, a kind of consistency no one dreamed of
questioning; as if they set, from moment to moment, like the ice of a pond
on which one can walk, and it was apparent that they testified to an
unexpected change of temperature. Orsenna’s intoxicated spirit demanded,
like the air one breathes, its habitual dose of daily change: absence of
change would have left it in a necessitous condition which ran no risk of
exacerbation, for there was no lack of those eager to furnish the drug. They
were especially to be found—which could hardly surprise me—in the
entourage of old Aldobrandi, whose worldly situation had now reached its
zenith. No one any longer recalled his exile and his troublesome history of
conspiracies: in this society so busily reconstituting itself, its moorings cut
as on a liner hoisting anchor, an expectation and a measureless credit were
extended only to those expected to enliven the crossing, and the old pirate’s
murky past suddenly gave him more prestige than any of the established
notabilities possessed, at the very moment when each man foresaw that he
must finally plunge into this dubious element. I had glimpsed him
momentarily in Orlando’s mother’s salon where I had paid a brief visit, and
his aspect had struck me as that of a man who bears not the stupid varnish
of success, but the feverish awareness that his hour—on the dial where it is
marked in advance—has suddenly come round.

He seemed extraordinarily rejuvenated; his hand jerked back and forth
over his short black beard; his glittering wolf’s eyes had, in discussion, a
fencer’s vivacity and economy of movement. He spoke in curt phrases that
he let fly at random, like a man accustomed to letting others pick up after
him; wherever he was, people kept hurrying in and out, and for these
messengers he would scribble a few words on a scrap of paper without
interrupting the train of his remarks. Surrounded by a kind of obsequious
little court, a prestigous silhouette was constituted as though by magic out
of each of his summoning gestures, as if his reach had suddenly been
extended, and one might have supposed that the city had closed ranks
around him, as if, beyond the walls, he had remained immediately and
directly in contact with each of its remotest capillaries. His gestures and his
remarks were singular in that they appeared to refer to an order of
consideration and scorn, of hopes and fears, quite alien to those Orsenna
once commonly acknowledged; his gaze and the inflexion of his voice
made everything new: thus, to the eye of a barbarian in the armies of the
Byzantine Empire, a new and utterly unsuspected landscape must have
filtered out of the aging and immutable earth: cities to be razed, fields
turned back to pasture, and the grounds on which his tribe would pitch
camp. A new social hierarchy came to life under Aldobrandi’s gaze; he was
simultaneously a mystagogue, a general in the field, and an outside-broker.
Here was the fauna which, household by household, now colonized the
haughtiest quarters in the city.
At Orsenna, the closer one happened to be to the apparent center of
power, the less one was concerned, as at Maremma, with Farghestan. The
point passionately argued was whether the Signory would undertake a
military expedition or if traditional policies would prevail and the incident
become a means of resuming contact and resolving an old dispute: in that
Middle Empire which had come to be the city’s image of itself behind the
isolation of its deserts, no one seemed capable of realizing that the
adversary might judge and determine autonomously, independently of the
intentions formulated by the city—which for so long had had none
whatever. Thus once they had escaped from the atmosphere of panic so

prevalent in Maremma, men’s minds seemed by contrast to function here in
an unreal and almost delirious security—the very familiarity of the inactive
and decrepit city maintained the universal authority of the sign over any
reality of the thing signified. The arguments I overheard around me seemed
to draw their apparently convincing force from a special kind of algebra
whose code I had lost. Behind words quite familiar to my ear, I kept
pursuing an unknown quantity whose notion was imposed upon me, in spite
of myself, by common consent, so enormous for example was the gap
between the “Syrtes fleet,” whose ready authority swelled these over-
assured mouths with utterly fictitious power, and the mud-silted shallops I
knew were rotting in our harbor—between the carelessly dropped epithet
“savages,” who were to be forced to see reason, and the disconcerting,
ironic, and excessively self-assured person who had paid me a midnight
visit ... In order to pass off, the fever of agitation which had seized upon the
city found no external point of leverage—atrophied imaginations conceived
no such thing—and what was childish in this salon excitement proceeded
from the fact that Orsenna seemed to be scaring itself, conceiving no other
means of exorcizing its boredom. The likelihood of an expedition or of a
war was vented all the more complacently in that it involved, for almost
everyone in the city, no more than an abstract and colorless representation,
even a vaguely fantastic one: the image of the city’s power, for so long
vigorously wielded, parting the milky fogs which had not ceased to thicken
on its frontiers, now found no eyes to visualize it and make it vivid; on the
contrary, repercussions of the affair on an internal level were everywhere
calculated and exaggerated in the most impassioned manner: the possibility
of a serious external crisis was actually conceived almost exclusively as the
promise of a change of personnel. Thus a failing centenarian forgets his
dispute with the very rhythm of the planet, suddenly concentrating an
absurd attention on the prospect of a new liver cure—and thus a crumbling
empire, already invaded and largely overrun, reacts (States always believe
they die on their feet) to its fundamental impotence by a petulant ministerial
crisis. In short, I rediscovered in Orsenna a nation which nothing had
disposed to think tragically. Confronted with a problem so remote from its

habitual angle of vision, one in which the unknown quantity prevailed over
the facts, Orsenna was reacting with the stubborn myopia of extreme
decrepitude: just as an old man increasingly succeeds in parenthesizing
such imminent and as considerable preoccupations as Death or Eternity, and
makes it a point of honor still to behave as a “natural person,” so the city,
not suspecting it had parenthesized itself, and long since, never suspected
what ill wind had risen from beyond the deserts, and why its own fingers
trembled as it picked up these all-too-familiar cards, always the same ones
which it had shuffled to the point of demoralization, in the stupid certainty
that anything which would ever concern it was conveniently represented in
them and could easily be read there. Just as continuous performance of a
game, by familiarizing the mind with the rules, unconsciously persuades it
that they will never again be questioned, merely because it has sacrificed
too much to them, and that they really exist, merely because they have been
able to mislead it, the way a tree or a stone exists, the factions and
combinations at Orsenna could change, but the idea of changing the rules
that presided over them was no longer conceivable: that would have
required some realization that it was merely rules which were in question.
Leaving the salons and their boastful arguments so tangled in worldly
illusion, I wandered through the streets, taking deep breaths of fresh air: I
realized that any consequential idea had lost all meaning, that everyday life
was stammering a language here which no lexicon could account for. In this
overbuilt city, outdoor life, perhaps as a reflection of the ancient military
disciplines which had ennobled it, had always preserved a character marked
by austerity and coldness: the generally sombre colors and simplicity of
people’s clothes, the haughty reserve of the women, the repugnance to
engage in sidewalk conversation or to mingle with any street crowd had
long since cast Orsenna, in the eyes of the exuberant Southern populations
astonished by such distant dignity, as the Signory’s “cold heart”: more than
in any other capital, here one perceived virtually at a glance the inveterate
proximity of a great power, of which each man—so much more a citizen
than an inhabitant—insisted upon respect for its fraction lodged in himself.
Yet now, to my surprise, the streets of Orsenna had grown animated. They

seemed to attract more people than usual; strangers would question each
other, and once a voice sounded a little louder than was customary, an
orientation seemed to occur in the indifferent chaos of comings and goings:
the dark figures clustered, attentive, as if from this mouth they hoped to
catch a voice from a greater distance, an oracular murmur, or perhaps an
access to something in themselves which they could not express and which
might have somehow released them. The group immediately scattered, and
men’s faces as they took their various ways assumed a closed and
disappointed expression. To my gaze as I passed through the darkening
streets, the black dots thronging there no longer evoked an incoherent
swarm of insects, but rather a field of iron filings combined and recombined
by the passage of an invisible magnet; at the fateful hour which was
approaching, it sometimes seemed that the lines of force which Orsenna’s
history had inscribed in the city’s soil were being charged once again with
an active electricity, recovering the power of organizing these long-dormant
shadows, and newly conscious of a resonance proceeding from a greater
distance than the zone of received ideas. Thus the upper city, originally
Orsenna’s nucleus, clustered on a hilltop around Saint Jude’s Cathedral and
the palace of the Council of Superintendence, now saw its winding streets
humming once more with the after-work crowds which had long since
abandoned it for the more spacious and active districts—in the marshes—to
which most commercial establishments had moved; mysteriously
ennervated once again after centuries of lethargy, it seemed as if, at the
day’s close, the city’s reactivated heart was beginning to beat again. From
these dark alleys to the blind and echoing facades, people from outlying
suburbs who came here to argue until late in the evening made an exchange
for news and an arena for street orators; war cries and patriotic slogans rang
out from the very porches where guild banners had once been raised to
signal uprisings, and mouths gaping as they shouted their catchwords
suddenly seemed full of shadows, as if through them all the darkness that
lay buried in the city’s graves were being disgorged. As places of ill repute
often huddle in the lee of sanctuaries, so old Aldobrandi had his lair here—
a town house for which he had left the dim palace of the Borgo—and a

particular quality in the crowd’s ferment always betrayed his approach
through the alleyways: remarks became more brutal, expletives more
peremptory, and watchwords rang out that were taken up by the corner
speakers, nor were street fights infrequent; it was also said that at nightfall
certain more sinister arguments were ventured, and that money and wine
were liberally distributed; but for me it was a more troubling sign that the
police stubbornly avoided making their rounds in the vicinity of the Council
palace: here was already being created—as happens whenever authority
flags—by a complex interplay of calculation, inertia, and fear, a kind of
concession, a free zone where people flocked by instinct and overflowed
the bounds that ordinarily contained them: as in a worn canvas that, once it
is stretched, reveals by patches of brighter threads the places where it will
come apart, there appeared in Orsenna, without anyone’s daring to admit it,
certain patches of insurrection. By day, voices were raised against the
Signory’s avowed weakness in the face of provocations; by night, the
assertion was proved by breaking into empty shops and looting the goods
on display: neither proof, thus administered, altogether failed of its
effectiveness.
Yet no one appeared to be troubled by such conduct, and even among the
officials responsible for the city’s security, it was remarkable that these
symptoms were received so blandly and that the agitators could count, even
here, on at least a semblance of complicity. A kind of acceleration swept the
city; a secret craving, an admiration which was not always acknowledged,
now attached itself to everything that seemed to move forward, to
everything that seemed to advance more rapidly ... In the most exclusive
salons, where Aldobrandi now had his acknowledged confederates, a new
prejudice prevailed, by which moreover he covered his actions with a
consummate cynicism: any disapproval expressed against the behavior of
his men was taken as a sign of the worst possible taste, of a spirit
measurably behind the times, a condemnation without appeal now that
fashionable opinion had decreed that “times had changed.” Why they had
changed was what no one could quite explain, and perhaps the phrase had
to be interpreted less as the specific acknowledgment of an alteration in the

order of things than as the activation of that infinitely subtle touch which
links us to the wind’s direction, to the imperceptibly increased weight of the
air, and in the absence of any material evidence unmistakably warns us of a
“change in the climate.” And it was not only this more sinister color—
darkening each man’s mental landscape now as if he were reading the
future through a smoked glass—which seemed new: it was as if the very
rhythm of time had changed in Orsenna. Between the high walls, sometimes
sealed in their medieval nakedness, sometimes draped in the frivolous garb
which centuries of opulence had thrown over the facades like the
embellishment of a night of riot, when the sickly gusts of wind which rise in
Orsenna each evening had swept the last dead leaves from the pavement
and the last residents of the lower city were hurrying home through a pause
punctuated by the occasional slamming of heavy doors, I was struck by an
altogether new impression as I followed these avenues that seemed more
readily accessible to the tread of new crowds and to the sun of a new day—
an impression that time itself was flowing, flowing like blood, flowing in a
torrent through the streets. And one might have said that each man drank
his hope and his strength here, as in the first gust of wind from the high
seas: beyond differences of class and circumstance, this kind of
spontaneous fraternity in the streets resembled that of people embarked on
the same vessel, linked by the solidarity of a crew’s reflexes when their ship
is getting under way and when the words “death” or “disease” yield in the
imagination to the words “typhoon” or “shipwreck.” A great shared
privilege relaxed the impulses of jealousy and envy, leveled ranks, and
stirred together a mass more easily united—the privilege of a whole people,
fastened to the soil and now informed through its inner ear, a people which
new times were pushing on stage and which, abandoning its alleys and
cellars, was instinctively making its way pell-mell toward the only light
worth being blinded by: toward broad daylight.
These were the reflections which preoccupied me, while in the dimming
twilight of the brief winter evening I made my way through the little streets
of the upper city toward the Council’s old palace. A sudden desire to walk
there had made me send back the ritual closed car which the Council,

reluctant to expose to scrutiny the rare figures admitted through its doors,
discreetly sent to whomever it had decided to summon. The air was cold
now; a dry north wind had swept away the marsh mists, and sometimes the
winding labyrinth of alleys revealed a narrow prospect which flashed
downward toward the city lying bluish and flattened below, the first stars of
its lamplight fringing the black smears of the nearby forests, while
sustained bugle calls rang out limpid and clarified by distance as they rose
from the barracks through the transparent air: so it must have been for the
magistrates in the old days, perched up here in their eyrie, hidden on the
horizon of each gaze where the city had pressed its heavy weight upon the
earth, still profiled on the margin of each thought ... From the scattered and
remote cottages, already lost on the forest’s verge, columns of smoke rose
one by one, and as these drifted together they swathed in soft mist the city’s
core bristling with steeples and towers. To the North, the already indistinct
horizon was melting into deep forests among which the frontier wound its
way; in the gaps of the narrow streets which plunged southward, brighter
traces paled still farther off: the bald steppes which began beyond
Mercanza, the damp, still-gleaming cobbles of the old trade routes deeply
scored the steep prospect of the sleeping hillsides—markets, fortresses,
warehouses, battlefields were organized by the scars of that dead moon
among the tranquil evidence of the stars. If you knew how to read it, you
might have said that Orsenna was holding an open palm to the sky. Walking
at this hour through the sharply ridged, windy little streets into the grim
squares paved with hard stones and between the facades that glistened like
tiled pits, hemmed in by all these pinnacles of severe blocks which
constituted the upper city, still so reminiscent of the cloister and the
fortress, I felt a kind of austere power and melancholy rigor. From this
lookout with its hard, almost vitrified sky, with its dry and sober lines, as
though from the bridge of man-of-war, one dominated the soft shadows
encircling the wrinkled lands below: here was the habitation, amid an air
without taste or scent steeping the high heaps of bare stones, of a spirit of
altitude and desiccation, unwinking and tearless eyelids long folded over
secret and precise instruments of measurement, pupils concentrated on

deciphering the spectacle of lines and dots, the gaunt diagram which
Orsenna’s earth became under one’s plunging gaze.
Though I vainly reminded myself that I had been summoned merely to
furnish certain details to supplement my report, and that there could be no
question for anyone in my subordinate position of having anything to do
with secrets of State, I was filled, as I approached the palace, by an intense
curiosity, a virtual fever. The day before, I had had a more precise
conversation than usual with Orlando, who had been pretty well informed
of the struggles for influence and the shifts in equilibrium occurring in the
upper echelons of power. If I allowed for a certain aura of mystery, the
romanticism with which Orlando always tinged political matters—as people
who abide only on power’s fringes instinctively seek to exaggerate its luster
so that some reflection of it will cling to themselves—there nonetheless
emerged quite clearly from his remarks the fact that, in these latter days,
though almost no one in the city had been concerned about it, a new figure
had assumed a leading position in the Council: the figure, in fact, of old
Danielo, who had been so intimate a friend of my father’s. According to the
accounts Orlando had given me, the interest which led the ruling faction to
bring Danielo to prominence became quite distinct if one put side by side,
like pieces of a puzzle, certain “corrected” drawings by lot which had
occurred in recent months with a view to renewing the Council, and all of
which had tended to reinforce Danielo’s position there without anyone’s
attention ever being roused by a spectacular change. I had long known
through my father about this “proportional” practice, subtler than the art of
any chef, by which a winning party—and for this the Signory’s means were
virtually infinite—incorporated by infinitesimal fractions into the body
politic certain elements which might at first seem quite unassimilable; nor
did I disagree with Orlando that the operation had all the more significance
for having been even more clandestinely undertaken. According to him, the
provocative agitation which focused on Aldobrandi had served quite
deliberately to mask this sapping enterprise and had flexed the expected
resistances elsewhere than where they might have been more pertinently
applied; he alluded to this operation as already largely accomplished and,

taking into account only the clues at his disposal, “absolutely successful”:
according to Orlando, old Danielo had already and quite automatically
gained the decisive seven votes which in the Council of Superintendence
constitutes the “emergency majority” and deprives the minority’s
reservations of any practical effect. The figure of old Danielo had therefore
preoccupied me since the night before; now I was inclined to see his hand
in the instruction which I had received at the Admiralty and which so
remarkably countered all the Signory’s neutral routines; I decided to take
my father’s senile gabble less lightly and to regard as quite natural the
flattering notion that I would be seeing Danielo in person. I summoned up
all I had been able to learn about him from my conversations with my
father, annoyed now at having granted them so unconcerned a hearing; what
little I recalled assumed a vivid aspect for all its discontinuity, but they were
in fact only picturesque details of no definite drift, the sort of thing that
recurs to the mind through the mists of childhood. The most remarkable
feature of old Danielo’s career was that, oriented since his youth toward
purely disinterested and speculative investigation (he was the author of a
History of the Origins which Orsenna considered authoritative with regard
to the period of the city’s foundation), at the age of sixty he had begun
taking part in the city’s political intrigues, at a time when most statesmen
seek a justification for their past actions in a biography of Agathocles or
Mark Antony; indeed the prejudice of temporization and inertia which
worked against a scholar had long prevailed, to the point of somewhat
limiting, even in Orsenna, this second career, despite proofs of a
stubbornness and an incisive will which he had lost no time in evidencing.
His touchy character gained him few friends; aside from the hours when
service to the State required his presence in the city, he appeared to live
virtually alone on his Bordighera estates, buried in his library. From certain
anecdotes which my father had regaled me with or which had swept
through the city, there appeared, in the intensity of misanthropy and scorn
which tinged the figure, something violent and almost mad; yet, in the
voices which agreed, after the excessively knowing salon giggles, in
acknowledging him as a “character,” there invariably appeared something

intimidated and circumspect, as if the shadow of a bird of prey with
powerful talons had suddenly soared over the sheeplike gathering.
Moreover, it was singular that in Orsenna—where the very least that was
required of those aspiring to power was that by family alliances, by more or
less secret weaknesses, and by the commitments made to the clans, such
men should grant pledges and concession on all sides—an individual had
been permitted to reach the highest echelons of power without offering
more in the way of hostages. Without a wife, a mistress, or friends, without
known vices and without a murky past, he seemed to have nothing about
him of that seamy rind over which the politician’s rather uncertain thumb
likes to pass, in order to reassure itself and to affirm its common touch; this
naked, smooth but long-protected and carefully shielded strength suggested
instead, Orlando remarked, a sword in its scabbard. Yet Danielo was old—
he bore upon him the city’s curse; he had grown old in Orsenna; I imagined
his wavering figure, his dry and liver-spotted hands, his tentative footsteps
beneath the Council’s long black gown; Orsenna had worn out others, and I
knew what could subsist of a man once he had left, in official channels, in
order to become this august and emaciated ghost, every unacceptable
impulse of independence, will, and hope.
There was no trace, as I approached the Council’s palace, of the agitated
comings and goings which designate the nerve centers of a city at moments
of crisis. At this hour when it had already been abandoned by all the minor
functionaries, the palace seemed almost empty, and the few figures I passed
scurried down the corridors with the intimidating familiarity of a
freemasonry which recognizes its members and regards itself as altogether
at home; these silhouettes, some of whom I could identify as members of
illustrious families and who addressed each other by their first names with
brief, routine salutes that were incomprehensible to me, made me anything
but comfortable; I realized I was entering a closed world: the very air I
breathed in these empty, chilly halls—darkened by the lozenged and opaque
latticework of their windows and so quickly surrendered to gloom that my
footsteps unintentionally grew faint as they ventured into these somnolent
spaces—seemed vaguely impregnated with a more volatile essence, the

kind of which it is expressively said that they exist in the state of scents,
traces which escape attention once they have roused it, and in whose subtle
distillation time—a time which instead of devouring itself seemed here to
decant and thicken itself like the lees of old wine, with that almost spiritual
succulence by which certain noble vintages make the years themselves
explode on the tongue—counted for almost everything. It seemed rather
than that it was confined by them that this air had preserved the old walls,
like those putrescent swamps which give the pilings driven into them the
eternity of stone, so that out of this ancient and immaterial element the gold
leaf of the faded ceilings, the heavy leather peeling from the walls, the
dense substance of the chiseled tables, the barbarous thrones of raw oak
continued to nourish and imperceptibly make lustrous their worn patina, a
life which abandoned the comings and goings of the pale shadows still
faintly throbbing with the slowed pulse of the winter season: as in certain
monuments more deeply perforated than a coral reef and more organically
encrusted by the centuries, on which the population instinctively feels that
the very survival of certain very old cities concretely depends, here one
touched Orsenna’s depths and, almost materially, the uninterrupted series of
its strata—a sustaining polypary thickened here and grew ever higher,
raised by the very enormity of its mass to the point where it virtually
floated.
The usher who had taken charge of me upon my appearance at the palace
doors (one never walked unaccompanied through the Council’s corridors)
showed me into a dim and rather low-ceilinged hall on an upper floor. A
long, heavy table filled one corner; strangely massive and set off with
carved plaques, it oddly evoked, in this crumbling palace, the barbarous
ages of Orsenna—iron crowns set with rough stones, all the splendid and
savage ceremonial of the Lombard ages. The walls, as everywhere in the
palace, were covered from floor to ceiling with dark leather; the windows,
with their narrow leading and translucent panes, admitted no more than a
diffused and exhausted glow, as if the palace had sunk to the bottom of a
sealed courtyard; one of these windows, however, was open, revealing a
narrow rectangle where the clear sky was already darkening to night, and

the eye—attracted as though it were a prisoner’s—plunged down the city’s
slope toward the horizon of distant woods; gradually the gleam of a lamp
set on a bracket near the huge table extinguished the vestiges of daylight
and gave the room a look of anonymous intimacy, the sort of calm vigilance
one might expect in a chapel, inspiring in me the secure and infinitely
comforting sense that I was expected. I heard muffled footsteps
approaching, severe yet somehow expressing an indefinable feeling of
relief, like the steps of a priest crossing a church after performing his
functions; a hand was laid on my shoulder, or rather brushed over it, but
with a nuance—as subtly expressed as that of any pianist at a keyboard—of
reserved yet benevolent ease, and even before turning around I realized in
what manner the face behind me was smiling.
“So it’s you ...,” breathed a voice whose charm consisted of an
expressible composure, as if the syllables reached the ear distinct and new,
having been steeped, one by one, in a transparent liquid.
Old Danielo’s hand slid off my shoulder as he walked very deliberately
around my chair and stared into my eyes a moment. A sudden acuity
seemed to pass into the kindly smile; as I stood up, the hand returned to my
shoulder with a gentleness and a remission in the gesture permitted only to
someone inveterately obeyed.
He seemed in no hurry to sit down and, planted quite motionlessly in
front of me against the now very dim windows, appeared to enjoy—like a
man who neglects none of his advantages—the supremacy of his strange,
tall silhouette which towered over me. His features were swallowed up by
the almost opaque shadows, yet there was a tension in the motionless figure
observing me, supple and almost elegant beneath the long Council gown:
there was something oppressive about it. I felt, at the touch of theater in this
encounter, that in these premises, where traditions of the secret police
mingled with the highest executive decision (in Orsenna, the Council’s
interrogations made more than one face turn pale at their mere recollection),
the game was played closer to the man, without any of the usual forbidden

moves, in a tête-à-tête which had, here, assumed only too often a dreadfully
concrete meaning.
“I used to be very fond of your father, Aldo. And for a long time, now,
I’ve been eager to know you ...”
The lamplight fell across his face as he sat down now, articulating the
famous and imperious nose of the Danieli, so insolently recognizable that I
felt a shock—as if I had identified a king walking in the street by the profile
engraved on the coins of the realm. A kind of mist floated around his gray
eyes, veiled yet watchful in their heavy repose, at once those of a hunter of
beasts and a waking dreamer. It was the face of a man whose blood was
heavy, full of brutal passions and earthly appetites. And yet an inner ardor
seemed to temper these overwhelming lineaments of a whole race: as if this
refinement—the more supernatural for being so visibly unwelcome—this
clumsy and almost uncouth gentleness had been imprinted, after years of
fierce fighting, by the cloister’s long-sealed door upon the face of a
converted knight. “... I regret that it should be under such painful
circumstances.” The gray eyes met mine as his head rose in a brusque
movement, and I felt that I was stiffening in my chair, but what followed
disconcerted me even more. “... We have not been able to recover, I am told,
Captain Marino’s body. How greatly all of us have felt his loss. He was a
distinguished officer and a loyal servant of the State.” The voice seemed to
adjust itself to a narrower compass, the way you might slide your fingernail
into a crack. “... I know you had become close friends ...”
“The captain was a man without guile, and never attempted to blame
others ... It’s true that I was very fond of him, and I was grateful to him for
making my work at the Admiralty so much easier.”
“I know the captain would have chosen to rest in Orsenna’s ... earth,” the
voice went on with sudden gravity. “More than anyone else, he was entitled
to do so. I therefore request that upon your return to the Admiralty, you
continue the search for his body.” His fingers drummed on the table,
irresolute and bored, and for a moment I thought the audience was going to
stop short. A weary expression appeared in the gray eyes. I suddenly felt

extremely uncomfortable. “Do you sleep without dreaming, Signor
Observer?”
The question was asked in a tone of neutral politeness. For a second I
remained stupidly silent, then I felt that my blood was draining from my
face, and my fingers clutched the arm of my chair. “I thought ...” I began in
a broken voice, and I felt my mouth going dry, “...as God is my witness, I
thought ...” I half stood up from my seat, suddenly overcome by panic. “...
The instructions I received seemed ... well, led me to believe ... I thought I
was being told—without anyone’s saying as much, of course ... that I
should go across and have a look,” I stammered out, my throat convulsed.
The gray eyes did not blink, but something like a smile passed over the
half-illuminated countenance. “Relax, please sit down ... Your blood is so
hot, perhaps that’s only natural in so young a man. There! There!” he added
with an almost kindly irony, leaning toward me. “I haven’t said I was
sleeping well.”
An enormous weight suddenly slid off my chest, and I realized that it had
been many days since I had really breathed. The man before me had the
power to loosen and to bind. A mad craving passed through me: to kiss that
long, dry hand which hung before me in the shadows at the armchair’s
edge.
“How many men are at present on duty at the Admiralty?” old Danielo
suddenly asked in a short sharp tone of voice, raising his head. He was
holding a pencil now, and tapped the table with the point.
“Two hundred, minus the groups needed to restore the coast batteries.”
“Marino must have informed you of the imminent arrival of two
gunboats ... They’re being put into service now—you’ll be receiving them
with skeleton crews, which you will complete down there.”
“But ...”
“I know,” the black silhouette interrupted, the voice calm and rather low
now, suddenly without energy. “These are not, apparently, your duties. But
circumstances require ... No successor to Captain Marino has been

appointed, for the time being. Moreover, you have the help of experienced
officers on the spot.”
Something in the complacent voice signified that such a nomination
would not occur for a long time. I bowed with a gesture of uneasy
deference. “I’ll do the best I can, if I have deserved the Signory’s
confidence.”
“You do not have ‘our’ confidence,” the voice resumed, and this time a
note of murderous irony sounded in it. “You do not deserve it, and have
never had it. You have our ... authorization. Which is all that can be
expected of a State cast into difficult circumstances, and subject to ...
chance.” There was a tiny spasm of fatigue, and suddenly he seemed
terribly old. “I’m going to trust you with a State secret, one it is not wise to
share with too many of the staff,” he went on, raising his head again and
smiling into the gloom, “a secret of weakness. Initially, you see, when an
unforeseen incident occurs which takes a bad turn, we always maintain in
command the man on whose account it all began ... Does that seem odd to
you?” he inquired, trying to meet my eyes.
“You may have reasons I know nothing about,” I remarked, embarrassed
and circumspect.
“Several, as I see it,” he said, his voice clear and slow. “The intellectual
sloth endemic to good governments, first of all. And the instinct to cover
one’s tracks in the eyes of public opinion, which is always ready to assume,
when one tightens the reins too soon, that ‘if things had only been left
alone,’ but to which, if worse comes to worst, one will be in a position to
sacrifice an appropriately black scapegoat. No, I don’t mean you ...” he
smiled, seeing my uncomfortable grimace. He seemed to reflect for a few
seconds, and on his face appeared that vague and almost absentminded
expression which contrasted so vividly with that determined countenance
and those powerful jaws. “Perhaps too there is a darker reason—one more
difficult to explain. Once a man has been deeply involved in certain acts
which exceed his grasp, there is a sense that some part of him has remained
unacknowledged, unrecognized, since such acts have been generated by just

that aspect ... And perhaps there’s a kind of sacrilege in putting asunder
what the event had united. Don’t you think, Signor Observer, that there are
men who belong to certain acts—acts particularly difficult of access,
incomprehensible acts, precisely because the ladder has been removed—the
ladder that leads from them to him? ...”
“If I do belong to this act, I can’t be the only one who does,” I said, my
voice a whisper. “A clear order from the Signory would have kept it from
happening. I don’t believe I ever had occasion to receive any such order.”
In an abrupt movement that he suddenly seemed unable to control, old
Danielo stood up and began walking across the room. He walked extremely
slowly, extremely silently. When he turned back toward me, a faint rustle of
silk ran through his black gown, and the flame of the lamp wavered. He
looked like a man who gets up in the middle of the night and walks through
his bedroom under the burden of an intolerable thought. It was as if he had
forgotten I was there.
“No, you’re not mistaken,” he said at last, his voice very low, “I shall not
be so vain as to deny it. The cause was put in your hands, you had been
given permission. I didn’t know you would go across ... But I knew it was
possible. I knew I was leaving a door open.”
“Why did you permit such a thing?” I asked softly, leaning my head
toward him.
He glanced at me suspiciously, his eyes filled with disdain—the disdain
of a man of power caught off guard; I was interrogating him, and for a
second I felt he was hesitating, in offended majesty, to answer me, but he let
his head drop almost imperceptibly. “There are certain questions one does
not ask. But I have summoned you here without witnesses ...” He smiled
again, a smile which seemed elsewhere, like a man who pretends to pursue
a polite argument but who conceals a weapon in his sleeve. The memory of
the Council’s prisons and of the discreet executions performed there crossed
my mind, but now I was confronting something quite different from fear—
an intense, almost painful curiosity drowned out all apprehension. “To
whom would the explanation be made but to the one man capable of

understanding it?” he said suddenly, with a smile of extreme intimacy.
“What I’m going to tell you now ... no one here would understand. And no
one will hear it from you,” he added in a swift, harsh tone of voice. “I am
the master here, remember that, Aldo, and anything you repeat will cost you
dear. I have decided to speak to you as man to man, tonight, because you
are close to me, because I have followed you, at a distance, from hour to
hour, because I was the force which sustained you and impelled you—
because I was with you on the boat ...” He continued walking up and down,
taking slow, silent steps. “... I have loved power,” he continued rather
loudly, which made me listen all the more closely, since the tone accorded
so poorly to the resonance and the dimensions of the room—as in a room
where someone is talking in his sleep. “I shall not reject my pleasure ... It
has entertained me for years. Power is a great thing, Aldo; since you, too,
can lay claim here to a certain importance, do not believe those who will try
to disabuse you of its charms. There is a certain kind of philosopher who
grows like moss on ruins ... the kind who celebrates the nourishments of air
and anathematizes what grows in the fertile earth; such men will put you on
guard against the vanity of experience and warn you against everything
which isn’t born in desiccation; but believe me, Aldo, it’s worth the trouble
to put down roots—it’s worth the trouble to rule over even a ruined State.
One advances between two rows of bowing men, and if you’re an amateur
of human affairs, it’s worth the trouble to observe a bowing man—it’s a
way of gaining time—and only in that position do they give off a certain
scent, one which is theirs alone, just as the quickest way to become intimate
with certain perfumes is to break a branch or two. That’s how I knew your
father, not so long ago, Aldo—I knew nothing of him—he had merely been
my friend for twenty years; he had to come and ask me for a position ...
There’s a kind of amusement in that, a real entertainment, and then
something else concerned me too ... For thirty years I’ve been a man of
books, and—well! let’s say I understood the march of history through the
small end of the telescope: relationships, necessity, the mechanism of
affairs, everything except one thing which is the great childish secret, which
you have to put your finger in the pie to learn: the ease—the disconcerting

ease with which things are done. So for me there was also that almost
inexhaustible amusement: to realize that the machine works, that a thousand
gears will mesh and function when you press the button. At the beginning,
this was almost beyond belief: to find yourself in front of buttons you can
still push—it makes you a little dizzy; and then comes another pleasure, the
pleasure of reaching one and the same goal by several circuits. You never
get tired—it’s a long time before you get tired of seeing that those gears
mesh: the perfume of the pulverized human substance—I promise you
that’s a stench you don’t get out of your nostrils, it’s quite a different matter
from understanding how the mill works. Finally, I’ve taken a certain
pleasure in this machinery which actually functioned—it was more than the
screech of axles and the grating of wheels. I’ve had my good times, I don’t
regret it. Only something else has come ...” He stopped a moment and the
wrinkles of his forehead seemed to pursue an irritating thought. “...It isn’t
coming quickly, Aldo. It makes itself known from very far off, but only at
intervals—for after all, it was a full life one was living—by a sort of
blinking, only a little brighter, like the first heat lightning at the end of a
summer day. A thing which takes its time ... A thing which is in no hurry,
which grows of its own accord, which can wait, which knows it will profit
from ... everything. A preoccupation which is anything but ... yes, an
obsession which leaves you long respites, more respites than other kinds,
but stubbornly refuses to mix with the rest, which disdains and withdraws,
which actually eclipses itself rather than compromise, but which makes you
realize that only one hour counts for it, and except for that one hour nothing
else counts: the hour when it leaps upon you, the hour when it seizes you
completely. The woman who will ruin a man’s life often announces her
presence by such casual eclipses: a little tap at the windowpane from time
to time, almost imperceptible yet distinct, with that percussive accent that
makes everything give a little start, and never mingles with any other
sound: she has passed by again, deep inside yourself you know it, that’s all;
perhaps you’ll have to wait, wait a long time still, but a nerve has been
touched deep inside you, a nerve which keeps listening for that one sound,
nothing else can reach it. As for me, it was Farghestan whose tap on the

windowpane I was waiting for ... In the lulls of the murmur woven around
me by the world and its affairs, I suddenly became aware of a curious
silence, almost a rude silence—one of those gaps in a conversation which
are so upsetting, and if you yield to the void they cause, they lead without
your even realizing what’s happening to two wide eyes—two eyes which
stare at you without a word being spoken, two eyes which have managed to
create a silence around them. I was concerned with that kind of silence. The
thing which was advancing so cautiously behind it was making me a sign,
sometimes seemed to keep its distance but never took its eyes off me; I had
an assignation with it—an intimidating tête-à-tête ... And a strange sense of
power, a real exaltation dawned at my approach: between every act—
between the one I alone was beginning to glimpse and the one no one
remembered any longer, was the act I could perform. That act baptized the
world. Instead of its being a conclusion, everything started from it anew. It
was terrible, it was rash: the wisdom of men, the security of the city argued
against it ... The world, Aldo, expects certain beings and certain moments to
restore its youth to it; something uncertain rattles the door which needs no
more than permission to open, a permission in which the whole soul is
steeped. Could I have thought for a second of the security of an old and
rotting city? That city lies stiff in its grave and ripe on its inert stones—and
what can still delight an inert stone except to become, once more, the bed of
a raging torrent?”
Old Danielo leaned forward with a weary gesture and rested his forehead
in his hands. There was a moment’s silence. Suddenly it seemed to me that
this silence had grown deeper; the distant murmur of the newly deserted
palace had long since ceased; the ticking of a clock, only recently
perceptible, scratched at this smooth silence like some insect’s mandibles. I
stared at the square of sky outlined by the window, quite black now: a few
stars glittered there, sifting into the room as though to the bottom of a well.
Suddenly it seemed as if nothing had ever been so much at rest as on this
evening: the faint, even glow of the warm room cast a magical silence over
the sleeping city.

“... Why do I suddenly need to tell you such things? And you of all
people? ...” Danielo continued in a pensive tone of voice. “A time comes
when the idea that the meaning of one act—the most singular act in your
whole life—might vanish with you forever becomes intolerable. I think the
time has come for me to bear witness—to testify,” he said after a moment’s
pause, with a strange smile.
I said nothing. There was nothing to say—the old man expected me to
say nothing; for the last few minutes I felt that my presence had become
vague to him, and that he was speaking in his own presence with a singular
unconcern for my attitude and my gestures, the way one speaks at a
deathbed.
“... The City ...” he continued while a kind of cold glow passed over his
face, like the distant reflection of some great fire ... “It seems to me I can
speak of the City ... For them it was the legacy one hands on intact, the bit
of earth one cares for and says farewell to; for me it was the pyre prepared
for my torch—a thing that awaited its meaning and its consummation from
me. I had a tryst with it, it seems to me, at closer range ....
“I’ve followed you, Aldo—from a distance. I know what you wanted ...
and I know that only going all the way was enough. There was that act
before me—not even an act, hardly a permission, an acquiescence—and
through it everything possible collapsing, an avalanche, everything which
makes the world emptier, if I don’t commit that act. Emptier forever if I
don’t commit it ... And behind, nothing: the mummified repose of that
vague phantom; the void intensified on earth by that obscene yawn and
those ears accustomed to nothing but the tiny intimate creaks of the coffin.
It’s a terrible thing for a man to be a channel, a sheath for nothingness—to
make his will into a stone tossed into the current. I had time to become
serious, I had stopped wanting to win—now it was time to hasten the
advent ... The world, Aldo, blossoms through those of us who surrender to
temptation. The world is justified only at the eternal cost of its security. All
I wanted was to tell you how things have happened,” he continued, his
voice faintly more relaxed than during the rest of his discourse, which had

never departed from the tone of polite conversation, “and that’s why we
happen to meet here tonight.”
“And now?” I asked uncertainly, more to break the heavy silence,
embarrassed as I was at having to answer this ready and mannerly
confession, as if the whole time the old man had taken me for someone else.
“Now?” Danielo echoed, raising his eyebrows with a touch of
astonishment. “... When you set out on that ... crossing of yours, you didn’t
wonder—did you, Aldo?—what was behind you. No one here wonders.
There’s something more urgent ...”
“More urgent?”
Danielo’s eyes closed and his face assumed an intense, almost agonized
expression. “There are things more urgent than saving a life, aren’t there,
Aldo? If in fact Orsenna is still alive ... There’s salvation. Things don’t
always end at the threshold you expect—the only one you can see ...”
The old man’s eyes lingered a moment on the crimson seal of the pass
lying on the table in front of him. There was neither hate nor fear in his
gaze, rather a contemplative and purged glow. Suddenly a strange
comparison occurred to me: I thought of that “society” which, for all
Maremma, now commanded Rhages; Orlando’s remarks on the
“proportioning” by which the new spirit had infiltrated Orsenna came back
to me, and suddenly it was as if, between these shadowy forces, the envoy’s
face made an unexpected hyphen. It was as if old Danielo, behind his veiled
pupils, had pulled the strings and kept for himself the secret meaning of that
dialogue which had so baffled me, and which I had not been able to sustain
that night.
“Is that the Pact you meant?” I snapped at him, suddenly struck by a
recollection. “... The pact that would bind the city? ... Am I to understand
that you’ve determined its fate and chosen the worst?”
The old man shrugged. “Chosen ... Determined ... Could I do any such
thing? What it has now, the city gave itself. Only the city could have
empowered such a pact. It had to believe in it—and that depended on no
one in the world.”

“What it has ... ?”
“A destiny,” Danielo said, turning his head away, as a physician utters the
fatal diagnosis. “Haven’t you noticed the signs? Haven’t you seen,” he
continued with dreamy irony, “how everything here has been miraculously
renewed?”
“It’s impossible,” I argued, and I could hear the desperation in my voice.
“There’s no destiny that forbids you to survive ...”
“You’re wrong, Aldo, it’s not a matter of subsisting,” the old man said
coldly. “I’m not a politician. There’s a time for such men—a time to
maneuver between the reefs, and a time to clutch the thread that leads to the
heart of the labyrinth. You held that thread, and it led you where you ...
where you went.”
“I was obeying orders,” I said harshly, “or believed I was. I wasn’t
responsible for the City. You were.”
Danielo shrugged again, with weariness and vexation. “Do you really
think so?” For a moment he seemed to ponder deeply, and again the
wrinkles on his forehead pursued some obsessive thought. “... When you
rule, nothing is worse than losing hold. Once the Thing came to me, it was a
strange discovery to realize that this was the only way to hold onto
Orsenna. Everything that focused on Syrtes again, everything that led to the
renewal of your ... episode made the old gears turn with almost
phantasmagorical ease, everything that failed to concern it met with a wall
of inertia and unconcern. The Thing took advantage of every instance—the
gestures to accelerate it and the gestures to slow it down—like a man
sliding down the slope of a roof. Once the question was raised—how can I
put it to you?—everything was mobilized of its own accord. In the
Council’s deliberations, suddenly, without any reason, at the turn of a
phrase, in the absurdity of a play on words, by a preposterous angle the
Thing came to rest on those dead mouths, like a fly you keep brushing away
—and those extinguished faces suddenly burst into flame, like a stick of
charcoal! When you rule, you must always go as fast as you can, and the
fastest—unbelievably—was always that nonexistent Thing which uttered its

mute cry—more energetic than any noise, because it was like a pure voice
—which was carving out its place in advance, which distorted everything,
that sleeping Thing the City was pregnant with, and which made a terrible
hollow in its womb ... We were all carrying it ... Yes,” Danielo went on, and
once again he seemed to be staring into the void, “everyone was an
accomplice in that business—everyone helped. Even when people thought
they were doing the opposite ...”
“Old Aldobrandi, among others, I should suppose, hardly thought so.”
Danielo shrugged again. “There are days when Aldobrandi and his clique
remind me of spontaneous generation. If he didn’t exist, Orsenna would
invent him ... You too,” he went on, turning his unseeing eyes to me, “if you
hadn’t been there, the city would have invented you ...”
“Maybe,” I said after a moment’s pensive silence. “But here! Didn’t
anyone really weigh the possibilities—didn’t anyone calculate before
taking this ... this risk?”
“No one ... nothing, Aldo. Oh, we seemed to. Or else we calculated with
false information, with false numbers. Which deceived no one, but which
saved face. Because real calculations would have kept us from taking the
risk, and it was the risk that led us on. Not even the risk ...” he added in
almost a whisper. “Maybe there are moments when you rush into the future
as into a fire—helter skelter. Moments when it intoxicates you like a drug,
when a debilitated body no longer resists ...”
“I know,” I said with an effort. “I saw Maremma catch the disease.
Maybe I caught it myself ... Luckily there’s still time. You know it’s in your
power to put everything back to sleep.”
The old man slowly straightened and met my eyes with an icy, almost
inhuman determination. “You’re wrong there, Aldo. It is too late.”
“Too late?” I had stood up in spite of myself, and I felt my face go pale.
“Too late, Aldo. I’m no longer the one who decides. Orsenna has come
on stage now. Orsenna will not draw back.”
“So you want ...”

“Everything that will come, yes, and may God help us, for there will be
need of that—great need.”
“You’re mad!”
Danielo slowly raised his eyes to mine, without surprise and without
resentment—eyes which seemed to have been steeped by a single flicker of
the lids in some deep and icy solution, eyes suddenly extraordinarily
distant. “You seem strangely mistaken, Aldo, as to what my presence means
here,” he resumed in a cold, calm voice. “It’s no accident that I’m where I
am. Do you think Orsenna is still in a position to play for small stakes?”
“I think I see quite clearly what you’re up to, and for those stakes, in any
country, there’s a name ...”
“Say it then,” the old man sighed, with the same singular calm. “Are you
afraid to?” He pushed away several papers on the table in front of him.
“Make no mistake, Aldo. What I’m telling you, no one will ever hear. It’s
terrible, at certain moments, to feel you’re alone—and to whom would I
speak, if not to someone closer to me than all the others—to someone who’s
been over there. Everything will be submitted in due form, everything will
be put in order—irrefutably—and the noble graybeards that seem to be
painted on the Senate paneling will acquiesce, one after the next, once I
read my report, as if in all their lives there had never been a question of
doing anything else: does one evade the voice of the fatherland? The voice
of the fatherland! ... It never speaks so loud as when it’s a matter of
destroying yourself for no good reason—and it’s not hard to suggest the
kind of language it uses: making the dead speak with discernment and
relevance is the ruler’s art, and it’s Orsenna’s favorite sin to listen to it; you
know how incongruous it always seems to Orsenna to be spoken to in the
present indicative. The honor of Orsenna ... The infidel’s insolent defiance
... A cause which was settled by God centuries ago and which it was none
of our doing to awaken ... The growing insecurity of the Syrtes outposts ...
Our forces multiplied by the calm assurance of their rights ... (ad libitum) ...
The danger of the remote Southern provinces seceding, a menace which,
even if other reasons were not more urgent, must of itself incite us to firm

measures ...” Once again he produced that strange throaty laugh, and once
again choked it off short. “... No, don’t think I’m as cynical as all that.
Everything said will be at least half true. As always. A war is never entirely
lost in advance, and it’s certainly more serious if a State yields when it’s put
itself in the wrong. The reasons Chancelleries offer are always more or less
... reasonable: one asks little more of them than to be decorative—to plug
the holes. False reasons, if you like, but false here, most of all, because they
are instead ...”
“Instead of those that aren’t acceptable?”
“Instead of those that aren’t accepted. There’s no known language, Aldo,
in which a tottering state can confess its innermost difficulties, like a sick
man to his doctor. No language—and that’s too bad. The leaders of old
States are congenitally regarded as fools and hypocrites. As if everyone
weren’t sealing him up in his hypocrisy, that old man in whom every organ
is collapsing and who still, everyone insists, must be in good shape! As if
everyone weren’t in league—and his own family more than all the rest—to
keep him from speaking out about the little discomforts that will soon be
the death of him. Yet that’s what he wants to do—and that’s what he needs
to do, more often than not. And they’re not imaginary diseases. People talk
around him, they talk to him as if there were nothing the matter: legacies,
dividends, marriages, lawsuits ... As if his business could continue as usual,
could hope to catch up with him where he’s going! Sometimes—more and
more frequently—a lull occurs in all the fuss, and a noise can be heard
which he alone pays any attention to: the noise of shores being lapped by
the waves which rapidly subside behind a ship putting out to sea ...I’m
telling you these things because I’m old, and I’m telling you with good
reason because I haven’t grown old alone.”
“The thought of the end?” I ventured, with an involuntary shrug.
“Nonsense!”
“It’s not a thought, Aldo. You’ve understood a great deal, but you’re too
young to understand this. It’s not even an idée fixe. It’s a last will.”

“You enjoy saying such things ...” I was moved more than I cared to
admit by his tone of certainty. “... No one at Orsenna has any great craving
to commit suicide, I can assure you. No one I know. You’re exaggerating.”
“You don’t really believe what you’re saying, Aldo. ‘Suicide’ is an easy
word to say. A State doesn’t die, it’s merely a form which disintegrates. The
fasces are untied. And a moment comes when what’s been fastened together
longs to come apart. And when the time comes, I call that a good thing.
There’s a name for it—it’s called dying the right death.”
“Orsenna’s disintegrating? Who could make it do that?”
“Solitude,” Danielo answered thoughtfully. “Solitude and boredom. It’s
what happens to something that’s felt itself gathered together too long, too
... exclusively. The vacuum that occurs at its frontiers—a kind of numbness
which is generated on its torpid surface as if it had lost the sense of touch—
lost contact. Orsenna has made deserts around itself. The world is a mirror
in which it looks for its image and no longer recognizes it. For years now,
Aldo, I’ve been living with my ears glued to its heart: that heart no longer
expects anything but the dead marsh and the black wave that will submerge
it. It’s been too long since Orsenna has taken chances. Around a living body
there’s the skin that permits contact, the pores that can breathe ... But when
a State has known too many centuries, the skin becomes a wall, a great
wall: then the time has come ... Then it’s time for the trumpets to sound, for
the walls to fall, for the centuries to boil away and the horsemen to enter
through a breach in the wall—the splendid horsemen who smell of wild
grass and cool night, with their alien eyes and their cloaks fluttering in the
wind ...”
“I’m sure you’re right,” I said nervously. “And next thing you know,
heads blossom on the ends of pikes. But you need a little distance from such
things—to gain some perspective ...”
Danielo kept silence a moment and stared at me haughtily. “My blood
belongs to the City,” he observed with cold decision; yet his voice was
trembling. “I’ve done nothing but serve it—inadmissibly. Do you suppose I
could survive it, if things were to reach that point?”

“That point! ... But what forces you to ... that point?” I was shouting, and
I could hear the desperate rage in my voice. “A gesture—one gesture, that’s
all, one that doesn’t even cost your pride anything, and the world goes back
to sleep. A gesture that you can make. That you can also make, for here
everything obeys you.”
The old man seemed to hesitate a second, opened a drawer and held out a
roll of paper.
“Read this,” he said sharply.
The scroll was a police report from Engaddi, a wretched village in the
interior of Syrtes which served as a supply stop for the caravan drivers of
the extreme South. The report was brief and specific: it indicated that a
caravan recently arrived at Engaddi had made contact at the Sarepta water
hole with a dismounted raiding party of Ghazanid nomads, who only rarely
ventured into these regions (through which winds a quite theoretical
frontier) before the return of good weather. Armed Farghian detachments
had just driven the cattle from their remote winter pastures, requisitioning
horses for their cavalry remounts, and information furnished by
eyewitnesses suggested that a “numerous” though unspecified Farghian
army was following them, a few stages away, skirting the Syrtes Sea toward
the Eastern frontier. Questioned as to when the Ghazanids might reoccupy
their pastures, the leader of the advance detachment had replied with a
smile that the cattle and the transport horses would stay there only briefly,
and that “everyone knew that good winter pastures were to be found on the
other side of the frontier.” As this news spread, panic had seized the
population of Engaddi; in order to calm the disturbances, the police had
been obliged to evacuate the women and children to Maremma and to
distribute weapons to the able-bodied men. The police chief demanded
immediate orders “in the face of this new situation.”
“So they’re coming!” I said, and all my rage suddenly collapsed, giving
way to a feeling of certainty and of marvellous peace: it was as if the torpor
of the sands had suddenly been pierced by the sound of a thousand springs

—as if, under the shock of the mysterious army’s millions of marching
steps, the desert was blooming all around me ... to infinity.
“Yes,” old Danielo said, and it seemed to me that his face was suddenly
filled with light. He stood up and walked over to the window. The same
patch of black sky was framed by the dark rectangle, the same stars
glistened there. The suspense of this calm night was so deep and so intimate
that it seemed you could hear someone walking ....
It was very late when I left the Council’s palace. Old Danielo had sent for
the liaison officer attached to the Superintendence services, and we had
discussed at length the military measures that would have to be taken at the
Admiralty. It was decided to make patrols a daily matter, and henceforth to
ignore the “line” which limited their offshore range; in a situation which
seemed to be growing more intense by the hour, it was obviously ludicrous
to observe a discretion which could cost the Admiralty a nasty surprise. The
regions around Vezzano were to be watched particularly closely. A state of
siege would be immediately declared in Maremma where, in the frenzy
possessing the city, arrival of refugees from Engaddi risked creating
dangerous outbursts. All the coastal batteries still in service at the
Admiralty would have their forces immediately filled to capacity. The ships
available for combat—including the reinforcements, their number rose to
four—were to be ready to embark in two hours. Once the ordinance
proclaiming a state of siege was written and sealed, Danielo dismissed the
officer and kept me with him a moment longer.
“So then, Aldo, we’re to part. Tomorrow, at the first possible moment,
you’ll return to Syrtes. God knows how and when we’ll ever meet again.”
“God knows,” I repeated, shaking his dry hand. It was trembling faintly
—as if the night’s chill had suddenly entered the room through the open
window. “Nothing has been said yet,” I added in a voice without conviction,
“the army hasn’t crossed our borders—perhaps they’ll stop there ...”
“No, Aldo.” The old man shook his head slowly. “No. No more than the
stars will stop in their courses. No more than two bodies beginning to make
the gestures of love ... Neither fear, nor rage, nor convenience, nor flight

will save Orsenna from the promised thing it has become for the open eyes
which are upon it ... Nor does Orsenna want to be saved. My memory will
be accursed, perhaps, if there is a memory for me ...” Danielo shrugged his
shoulders. “... When a ship is rotting on the stocks, the man who sends it
back into the waves ... can be described as unconcerned with its loss, but
not with its destination ... Have no regrets,” he said, shaking my hand again
with a sudden emotion, “I myself have none. It’s not a matter of being
judged. And it wasn’t a matter of a good policy, or a bad one, in fact. It was
a matter of answering a question—an intimidating question—a question
which no one still in this world could ever leave unanswered, with his last
breath.”
“What question’s that?”
“Who’s alive?” the old man said with a smile, “qui vive?”—and his
motionless eyes plunged into mine.
The night was bright and clear when I left the deserted palace. A cold
mineral glow scoured the stone cornices, casting inky shadows from the
elaborate wrought-iron trellises of the old wells still used in the upper city’s
little squares. Through the night’s stillness, beyond the naked walls, faint
sounds rose at intervals from the lower city: running water, the rumble of a
distant cart—distinct yet intriguing, like the sighs and movements of a
restless sleeper, or the occasional cracking of desert rocks contracting in the
night’s cold; but in these dry upper districts, the harsh patches of bluish,
milky light clung unwaveringly to the stones like a layer of paint. I walked
on with a pounding heart, my throat dry, and so perfect around me was the
silence of the stones, so compact the ringing frost of that blue night, so
puzzling my footsteps which seemed to float just above the cobblestones,
that I felt I was walking through the bizarre decoration and the bewildering
lighting of an empty theater—but a harsh echo dogged my way for a long
while and ricocheted against the house fronts, a footstep finally fulfilled the
expectations of that empty night, and from now on I knew what the stage
was set for.
OceanofPDF.com

Dust cover blurb
With an oeuvre that includes four idiosyncratic, elegantly written novels,
Julien Gracq has established himself as one of France’s eminent postwar
fiction writers. A mysterious and retiring figure, he characteristically
refused the Goncourt, France’s most distinguished literary prize, when it
was awarded to him for this novel, published in 1951.
Set in the mythical Mediterranean nation of Orsenna, The Opposing
Shore concerns Aldo, a young aristocrat sent to observe the activities of a
naval base on the waters separating his native land from Farghestan, the
power with which Orsenna has been in a state of dormant war for three
centuries. The battle has become a complex, tacit game in which no actions
are taken and no peace declared. Aldo comes to understand that everything
depends upon a boundary, unseen but certain, separating the two sides, and
he becomes himself obsessed with this demarcation. Each chapter is a
further initiation into the possibility of transgression, symbolized by
Vanessa, a woman whose complex ties to both sides of the war pull Aldo
deeper into the story’s web.
Richard Howard, acclaimed poet, critic, and translator of more than 150
works including those of Barthes and Baudelaire, calls The Opposing Shore
“a charged, oneiric exploration of the meaning of self-revelation by self-
destruction; with the discovery that only what has been alive can truly die,
and with efforts to overcome the inertia of death-in-life by an ultimate
resolution to ‘cross the line.’”
With its emphasis on transgressions and boundaries, The Opposing Shore
became for many in France a powerful metaphor of that nation’s fall in
1939. “In the strongest transformation,” writes Howard, Gracq’s tale
“becomes a meditation on the French fascination with defeat, and a deeper
reading of history, an exploration of what it means to try to waken the will
through transgression, the consequences of surrendering old loyalties in

order to arrive at new energies. In theme, in style, in atmosphere, this is a
novel of decadence transfigured, the venture (or cast) made beyond what is
eternally rotten to what is (momentarily) mortal.”
Long famous in France as Les Rivages des Syrtes, this novel is
considered by many to be Gracq’s masterpiece. As the latest work in the
Twentieth-Century Continental Fiction series it is now available for the first
time to English-speaking readers.
Twentieth-Century Continental Fiction
JULIEN GRACQ (the pseudonym of Louis Poirier) was born in 1910 in
Saint-le-Vieil. Three of his other novels have appeared in English as A Dark
Stranger, The Castle of Argol, and Balcony in the Forest (also translated by
Richard Howard).
OceanofPDF.com

OceanofPDF.com