raw-1
		

	
	
		

			


		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 5 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 5 –

			
Passages 

			
Sicily to New York City

			
1910

			
Mariano and Ange were given a month to get to the docks in Palermo—however they could—where the passenger ship, Patria, would be waiting to carry them to their new lives. If they didn’t make it in time, they wouldn’t get this opportunity again and would have to walk back to their village in disgrace. 

			
So, in short order, they packed up their belongings, leaving Maria and the babies with Mariano’s parents who were constantly complaining that they’d run out of money, luck, and food. Like a period on the end of a sentence, his mother added to the end of every conversation: “We don’t even have enough for ourselves.” 

			
But it was all OK, because Maria and their three children, Giuseppe, and the twins, Pietrantonio and Calandra were going to follow Mariano in three short months along with Arcangelo’s wife, Rosaria, and their baby, Giuliana. It had all been arranged. 

			
On the morning that Mariano and Ange were set to leave, Maria cried and clung to him like he was going off to war and sure death, while he, shamefully, fought back tears himself. How could a man love a woman this much? All he wanted to do was make life beautiful for her in America. 

			
The men finally had to turn away from their wives and families and everything they’d ever known to begin the nearly seventy-mile trek to Palermo. 

			
Their leaving meant even fewer young men were left in Lucca Sicula. It was hard to believe, but by the time Mariano and Ange left, 90 percent of the young men in their town had already gone to America, almost all to Colorado. Lucca Sicula had turned into a sad village of starving women, old people, and orphans—with no prospects for the future. 

			
Odd that there hadn’t been many letters from those men who had gone to Colorado talking of their wonderful lives in that new country. Their wives would follow their men, but they didn’t write home either. However, most of the people could neither read nor write, so it wasn’t a worry. 

			
The padrones who still came recruiting would sometimes bring letters from the men who’d gone to Colorado and read them out loud. None of the letters sounded like they’d been dictated by their old cumpari because they were too flowery and used words none of them even knew. But the letters did say how wonderful life was in the new country and how they all had lots of land to call their own. Their families just figured the people who wrote the letters for them used fancier words because they knew how to read and write.

			
So, Mariano and Ange were filled with hope for the New World, yes, but they were scared and anxious too. What in God’s name were they in for? Were they on their way to paradise on earth or going to hell in a handbasket? They had heard that saying before but had no idea it had come from men being lowered into mines in baskets to plant dynamite. 

			
The La Barbera brothers walked, climbed hills and mountainsides, slept outside, and killed small game to feed themselves. Walking the beautiful hills and mountains made them worry even more that maybe they were making a big mistake, but they had no way to feed their families back in the village, no matter how beautiful even the somewhat drought stricken Italian scenery was. And besides, Saicchitano said they were going to the “Italy of America.” It would feel like home—but home without their wives and children for a while. 

			
Ange managed to get them past the hunger and thirst when there was no game to be found and no stream to drink from by asking crazy questions that made them both laugh. “Mariano, do you think Colorado cows make good Provolone?” “How do you say in American, ‘I would like to buy your mule and your wife?’” “Is there an ocean in Colorado? I was wondering because if there’s no ocean, there’s no sardines, and if there’s no sardines, how do they make Pasta con le Sarde?” 

			
“I don’t know if Colorado has an ocean, but I hear it has plenty of bears. We will have pasta con orso.” Mariano joked, pretending to shoot a bear.

			
And so, the brothers would laugh themselves silly, and for a few miles, they’d forget their troubles, forget how much they missed their wives, and focus on making it to Palermo in one piece. 

			
Once, when they were down to the last of the food without a rabbit in sight, Ange stopped dead in his tracks, put his hands on his hips, grabbed his brother, and began doing the tarantella. Then, at the top of his lungs he sang their favorite naughty ditty with verses that always ended up with something on the order of the baker holding his cannoli, or the musician holding his trumpet, and a girl’s mother warning that the man will always have “it” in his hand. 

			
Yeah, they knew it by heart, but it always made them—and all Italians—laugh like they’d never heard it before. 

			
What the brothers never lost was their determination—no matter how rough it got—to make it to a waiting ship in Naples. They’d get aboard that ship, and they’d get to the promised land—Colorado, America—by hook or by crook. They just didn’t know how true that saying was going to be. 

			
When the brothers finally reached the port city of Palermo, they found the padrone, Saicchitano, waiting on the docks, corralling the men he’d signed up. They all boarded the ferry steamer for the half day and overnight trip across the Tyrrhenian Sea. The overcrowded ferryboat hit a storm on the very first night which brought on giant waves. This put the fear of God into these landlubber smalltown mountain men who worried the ship would capsize or break apart. But after sleeping on the rocky ground during the terrible, seventy-five-mile trek from Lucca Sicula to Palermo, Ange joked that even if they drowned, at least they would drown while sitting on wooden benches. 

			
When they landed at the port of Naples, they were ushered into a long, red-brick building with more people than they’d ever seen in a single place before. Fights were breaking out, and men were screaming that they had been promised this, that, and the other thing but were being swindled. Women holding crying babies were trying to get their tickets, pickpockets were trying to pick pockets.

			
The La Barbera brothers were just two out of hundreds of Sicilian peasants in this mess who were waiting to board. After a very long day, they finally made their way to the gangplank of the passenger ship that was to take them to America. It wasn’t what you’d call a luxury liner—it was more like a floating shit box. The below-deck steerage where the padronis’ men were housed was filthy; slop buckets were always full; sea sickness and cacarella (the Tennessee trots) were as common as the rats that ran over them when they tried to sleep. Everybody’s head was so full of lice, they all looked like old men with grey hair. When rough seas hit, the ship’s sailors locked down the hatches, keeping those in steerage trapped down below. The lack of fresh air made the trots and seasickness even worse. Diseases spread. 

			
Each man had less than two square feet of space and were fed worse than dogs. All that was missing were chains to tie them down. Mariano realized right off that he probably wasn’t headed to the land of opportunity but was on a ship bound for hell. 

			
After a harrowing ten-day trip, the hundreds of Sicilians from the mountains who’d never been on the ocean before, were met at the docks in New York City. They prayed that all of their suffering was not in vain and they’d soon be kissing the beautiful, rich, black soil of Colorado. Mariano tried to believe the talk on the ship about how the number one place to go would be this Colorado, where farmland was fertile, beautiful, and free. And full of paisans—friends.

			
He tried to keep the faith even as they were shuffled through Ellis Island where they were inspected by doctors, numbered like cows going to slaughter, and registered by men who spoke no Italian. The man who registered the brothers chopped the “La” off their last names and changed the “Barbera” to “Barbarian.” “Mariano” was changed to “Marian” and “Arcangelo” to “Angela” on their official papers. Ange, looking at the nightmare that was the Ellis Island intake center, shook his head and joked, “Allura. Cristoforo Colombo havìa esseri nu pacciu.”—Columbus must have been crazy. Then he started singing, “Marian Barbarian….” 

			
The immigration inspectors set “Marian and Angela Barbarian” loose a few days later, where they were met at the exit by Saicchitano’s paid thugs—rough men who were rumored to be Black Hand. The brothers were placed in a horse-drawn wagon, with as many men as the carriage could fit, and hauled off to the rail yards. There, they were herded into boxcars guarded by the same gun-wielding thugs. It didn’t take long for somebody who still had some tobacco left to pay a guard, who told him that, no, they weren’t headed to a paradise of Colorado farmland but to the coal mines. 

			
The brothers chalked it up to rumors from men who knew nothing but spoke a lot.

			
“L’omu sta mintennu!”—The man is lying—Ange declared.

			
“For a pouch of tobacco right now,” Mariano said, “I would swear I’m the devil himself.”

			
“Plenty of tobacco where we’re going,” Ange the optimist added, pretending to smoke a pipe. “The land of plenty.”

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 6 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 6 –

			
The Actuality of Reality 

			
Trinidad, Colorado 

			
1909 

			
After hiking from Lucca Sicula to Naples, crossing the ocean to America in the belly of a boat, and finally riding in a cattle car for the last 1,700-mile trip from New York City to Denver, Mariano and Ange were anxious to put the hardship of the trip behind them. They were ready to do what they’d come here to do: work hard and farm the land.

			
Instead, “Marian” and “Angela” were dropped in Trinidad, Colorado, and taken to the Berwind Mines, which was a black and noisy mining town in the county of Las Animas. There wasn’t a farm in sight. The rumors had been true.

			
“Mama mia,” Ange cried out. 

			
It quickly became clear as the nose on Ange’s face—and nobody could miss that honker—that where they had been taken was not the paradise that the scum-bucket padrone had said it was, but a filthy, down-and-dirty shanty town. It was also a place where, in the not-too-distant future, a horrific massacre would occur—an event so shameful they kept it out of the history books. 

			
But for now, at least, the brothers were together. 

			
They were, however, having a hell of a time breathing. Ange thought it was a heart attack brought on from the stress of the trip or maybe from anger at being duped. But it turned out that because the air was so thin at an altitude of over 6,100 feet and so clogged with coal dust, it was nearly impossible for anyone to draw a breath. No wonder men there dropped faster than the mine shaft canaries. 

			
But how could this be? Why didn’t the La Barbera brothers know about this before they had left everything behind to come here? Why hadn’t any of the young fellas from their village who’d already immigrated to Colorado sent word that they were trapped in these hellholes? 

			
Worse, how would Mariano and Ange get in touch with their wives and tell them not to come, at least until they figured it all out? But it was too late for that even if they could get word back home, which they couldn’t. They had agreed in the contract that their families’ passages would be booked by the padrone and taken out of their future wages. 

			
The brothers could only hope there really were some men from their village here so they could get the straight skinny on what the hell was going on. With any luck those fellas hadn’t run off, been driven off, or killed. 

			
But how could they find them? There were so many men milling around—more men than they’d ever imagined could be in one town. There were races of men they’d never seen, speaking languages they’d never heard. By the time they arrived, there were twenty-four different ethnic, racial, and national groups speaking over three dozen languages.

			
They tried to pick out anyone speaking in their home dialect, all the while hoping they didn’t look as lost and scared as they really were. 

			
Over the racket, they heard Ange’s name called. The brothers looked at each other, and Mariano nudged him to raise his hand. They thought it might be a paisanu, from home, or at least someone who could help them. 

			
“Sono io!”—It’s me!—he called out.

			
Two men with mining badges and a little man with a book walked over to them. The badge men sized Ange up like he was a steer ready for slaughter, nodded their heads, and told him through the other man to report to the mine office. The book man, who spoke Italian, asked Ange to spell his name. Not only did Ange barely understand him (Sicilian was so different from what they called “high-class Italian” that it was itself recognized as a separate language), he couldn’t spell his name anyway. He’d never been taught. Instead, Ange said, “La Barbera, Arcangelo mi chiamu.”—My name is Arcangelo La Barbera. 

			
The man with the book went down the list and said he had an Angela Barbarian listed but no Arcangelo La Barbera. 

			
“Close enough,” one of the badge men said and showed Ange where to make his “X.” on the line. 

			
The bosses shoved Ange along to the mine shaft, and Mariano was left standing there more confused than ever. 

			
While Mariano waited to find out what he was supposed to do and where he was supposed to go, the sky opened up. He’d never seen rain like this. It was like something out of the Bible. His old fedora and threadbare jacket were as useless in the storm as a three-legged mule on a mountain. 

			
He had to find someone—anyone—he might know. There! Right there on the line. Wasn’t that Filippo Arcuri? That fella sure looked like Filippo, but it was hard to tell what with the rain and what he could see of the man’s face, which was black with coal dust and shadowed by the helmet on his head. But since Arcuri was a big man—six foot four if he was an inch—Mariano had a good feeling it was him. 

			
So, he called out, “Filippo! Filippo Arcuri!” and—dang if the man didn’t turn around. Without saying a word, the giant jumped off the line and reached Mariano in about twenty seconds, his stride being twice that of the other men. He lifted Mariano in a bear hug, kissing both sides of his face. In a second, other men skipped off the line, splashing their way through mud to greet them. 

			
They didn’t have to ask Mariano what he was doing there. They knew. 

			
Mariano, though, wasn’t so clear about what he was doing there himself, or about anything. So, he took off his fedora, slapped the puddles off it, and asked what the hell he was supposed to do besides stand there and wait. 

			
Arcuri put his massive wet arm around Mariano and patted his back, which Mariano knew was not a good sign. 

			
“Mariano,” he said, gesturing around them at the hundreds of men waiting amid the filth, mud, and splashing rain. “You do nothing,” he said in Sicilian. “Just wait to get called. And then you wait some more.” 

			
“Pi chi??”—For what? 

			
“To be picked to work your ass off in that shithole of a mine until you can’t breathe no more,” Roberto Candiano, another fella from back home chimed in, shaking his head in disgust. 

			
“This land of the free paisanu?” Arcuri added, “It ain’t so free.” The massive man, who was as tough as they come back home, didn’t look so tough anymore. He looked beaten. So did some of the other men who’d gathered around the newcomer. 

			
“What the hell did they do to you?” Mariano wanted to know. 

			
Arcuri spit on the ground. “Va Fangul Patruni!”—Fuck the padrones. Then another man who looked familiar, though Mariano couldn’t place him right away, reminded them all of the old Sicilian saying: “Si liccanu ‘I sarde e nun si li manciunu.”—[These people are so mean] they lick sardines instead of eating them. 

			
“What them son of a bitch patruni never tell you,” Arcuri added, “is that you are not free to live life like a man here in this cursed place.” 

			
Mariano didn’t know what the hell was going on. “Nun capisciu,”—I don’t understand.

			
The man he didn’t recognize earlier said, “My friend, you don’t remember me? Sono Tommaso Maniscalco.” Mariano was shocked. When Tommaso had left their town four years ago he was a kid. Now he looked forty. 

			
Tommaso continued, “At least you have a patruni, no matter how much of a rotten dog he is. Men who come here without a place to stay or a patruni get put to work as punishment with no pay at all!” 

			
Mariano realized no free farmland was coming to him anytime soon. OK, he’d work hard so he could buy it one day. “How much is the pay?” 

			
Arcuri answered, “Oh goombah. You don’t get paid right away. No, no, no. First you got to pay for these pants,” he said pointing to his legs. “Doongareece they call them.” 

			
“I saved up and bought this helmet to keep my head from getting bashed in,” Arcuri said, pointing to his headgear. “Do you have a heavy jacket for the cold and work gloves?” 

			
“No. I just have the clothes on my back and what’s left in my pouch.” He pointed to the bindle on the end of a stick. “Where do you buy such things?” 

			
“The company store,” Candiano said. “They don’t pay us in American money—they pay only in company money, which is only good at the company store.” 

			
Mariano was shocked. “Gesù Cristi Maria! You pay the bosses back with their own money to work here?” 

			
“Cettu. E chistu è nenti, cumpari.”—Sure. And this is nothing my friend. 

			
“Comu nenti?”—Really, that’s nothing?

			
Arcuri nodded his head in disgust. “The winters are freezing with snowstorms, sometimes avalanches near the mines. Then there’s diseases like the black lung that, I swear, kill off half the men.” 

			
Mariano made the sign of the cross. 

			
“Oh,” said Arcuri. “Another thing: You must also pay off what you owe your padrone before you can even leave here.” 

			
“Pay that stugots? For what?” 

			
“Your passage.”

			
“He said it was free! They want us to pay for a rotten boat and a stinking cattle car with vomit, shit, and piss all over the floor and spoiled horse meat for food?” 

			
“Si, paisan.”

			
“This is what they call the land of the free?” Mariano cried. 

			
Arcuri snorted a bitter laugh and shook his head. “It’s a lie. Just a filthy lie of the rich, white men who run things in this country.” 

			
“Let me ask you, my friend, what job do you have so you could pay for…” he pointed to Arcuri’s filthy work clothes. 

			
“I’m a coal heaver,” Arcuri said. 

			
“Che cosa?”—What is that?

			
“I shovel and carry coal. The bosses want seventy ton a day out of a mine. Me? I heave maybe three ton a day. We get paid by the ton. I do more than my share, but for that I only make twenty dollars in company money a month. Part goes to pay back the patruni, five dollars for rent to the company for a bed in a shack, and then there’s food. Nothing much left to send back to my wife. Even if there is anything left, I can’t send her the company money—it’s called ‘scrip’—so I have to sell the scrip to the money traders for American dollars. Of course, they give us a shit rate and charge to send the money. I don’t know if she ever gets it.” 

			
Mariano tried to contain his rage. If he started yelling, they’d throw him out for sure—and then what? He tried to keep his voice down. “Cu jè chiddu chi cumanna tutti ‘nta miniera ‘i carbuni?”—Who’s the big boss of the mine? Maybe he could talk to him personally. 

			
Arcuri let out a roaring laugh. “The big boss? Ha! John D. Rockefeller, Jr. He don’t live here, and even if he did, you couldn’t talk to him.”

			
“They call him ‘Rocky,’ and he’s a bastard that one,” Candiano said and spit on the ground. “He’s got boys five years old working down there. The kids say they are older, and nobody asks nothing.” 

			
“Five? How can they—” 

			
Arcuri cut him off. “Did you know there was a mine collapse last week that killed a boy?” 

			
Mariano shook his head, not sure he wanted to hear anymore. 

			
But Arcuri went right ahead anyway. “You remember Little Sal—Salvatore Amato’s boy? He was probably ten years old. The kid was working as a breaker boy.” 

			
“A what?” 

			
“The kids too young for mining work, they break coal into pieces with their hands, sometimes fourteen hours a day. Not allowed to wear gloves so they can handle the coal better. When Little Sal’s hands got too cut up and burnt from the acid in the rock, they sent him into the mine to bring down some canaries.”

			
“Birds? They send down birds?” Mariano asked, confused.

			
“Si. If the canaries die, it means the air is bad,” Candiano answered.

			
Arcuri continued, “But when the boy went down into the mine, it collapsed. Killed him.” 

			
Candiano threw his hands up, disgusted. “They handed that boy’s body back to Big Sal like he was a sack of coal.” 

			
The giant took off his helmet, bowed his head, and rubbed his eyes. “Futtini!”—Fuck them.

			
Was Arcuri crying? No, it couldn’t be. 

			
“Coal dust,” he said, “Just coal dust in my eye.” 

			
“Ma picchì nuddu mi dissi comu minchia era ‘cca?”—Why the fuck didn’t nobody tell me what this was like?

			
“Come mai?”—How come?—“I think the boss—curnutu!—threw away my letters to my family telling them the truth.” 

			
Mariano was taken by surprise—not at the shitty boss ripping up the letters but that Arcuri could read and write. “Sai leggere e scrivere?”—You know how to read and write?

			
Any man who could read could own the world. Maybe the American white men taught reading and writing instead of good pay? 

			
“No. No,” Arcuri answered. “One of the Italian wives writes them for us. We didn’t hide nothing from nobody, but we don’t think them letters ever get sent. Them mine bosses would never let the people back home know what it’s like here or nobody would come. That’s why there are so many men from Lucca here. The strong ones at least—the ones they think won’t die on them. These bastards even have a name for this kind of work. They call it ‘indentured.’” 

			
“Minchia! I thought the president of America was a good man,” Mariano said, sticking his fingers together in the pinecone hand gesture. “Indentured? Che diavolo?”—What the hell?

			
Arcuri shook his head, patted Mariano’s shoulder, and turned to go back to the work line. “Veni la rivuluzzioni cumpari.”—Come the revolution, friend. 

			
He squared his shoulders, shook off the rain like a dog who’d fallen into the river, and headed back, ready to go down into the mine and face whatever was waiting for him that day. The others followed. 

			
It didn’t take a genius to figure out that “indentured” was just a new moniker for an old game: slavery. Whatever they called it didn’t change the fact that coal turned to gold for this Rocky fella back in New York, and coal turned to shit for the miners up there in Colorado. 

			
Mariano stood in the middle of the muddy street in Rockefeller’s shanty town next to the mine and looked at his future. The sewer-less street was overflowing with mud, human and animal waste, coal wash, and rats. He had been hoodwinked, bamboozled, conned. 

			
The actuality of the reality, as they say, washed over him just like the coal wash and shit floating down the muddy road. 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 7 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 7 –

			
Big Sea, Big Lies

			
Sicily to NYC 

			
1909

			
Three months later, Maria, and Ange’s wife, Rosaria, kids in tow, boarded a ship to meet their men. Maria felt that whatever the new world would bring, it would all be fine because she’d be with the man she loved. The padrone had promised safe passage to a great new world, and Mariano had believed him, so it must be true.

			
Their accommodations on the ship were no better than their husbands had been, and as ladies with children, it was even worse in many ways. 

			
When the young mothers boarded the ship and went down, down, down into the belly of the beast—and it took a bit of time for their eyes to adjust in the dark with just a few swinging lanterns for light—they hoped what they saw wasn’t real. 

			
But it was real, and it scared them plenty. The steerage deck, which was below the waterline, was divided into three sections: single men, families, and single women. But that didn’t stop those varmints from venturing onto the ladies’ side. Along both sides were double rows of bunks with a small aisle down the middle. There was a tiny water closet at both ends—one for men, one for women. 

			
For drinking, there were barrels of “fresh” water, which had to last for the eight days of the journey. The steerage passengers said the water smelled like pickles, which was true because captains of these hell-on-water vessels would add vinegar to the barrels to disguise the stink of rotten water. 

			
Just as bad, the rowdy emigrant men started fighting, screaming, and cussing even before the ship had left the harbor. 

			
Rosaria tied her baby up in a sling and told Maria she was not going to let the infant out of the sling, except to change her dirty diaper until they landed. And she didn’t. 

			
They had been told to bring their own bedding, and Maria had proudly included the beautiful Italian linens that she and her mother had embroidered for her marriage bed. They realized right off that this wasn’t the place for fine linens. Hell, they were lucky if they could find a cot to sleep on—and those they could find were full of bed bugs and God knew what else. 

			
Their mothers raised them up to be good and proper brides and housewives—women who kept their homes, poor as they were, spotlessly clean. They had never seen filth like this. 

			
There were bunks for the adults but none for the children; not that they’d leave them to sleep alone on this dangerous deck. They decided one mother would sleep, and one would stay awake to prevent them from being attacked, raped, or robbed. Women were considered fair game for both the sailors above and the men below. 

			
On night two, a storm as fierce as any the crew had experienced blew in, and the sailors battened down all the hatches. The steerage passengers were locked in, trapped, tumbled, and terrified. The children screamed and clung to their mothers. The boat heaved all night and most of the following day like it was about to capsize. Maria, Rosaria, and the rest had no way of knowing what the hell was happening. There was no fresh air to breathe, only the vomit-filled stench of the seasick passengers. There was no means of escape should the boat sink. 

			
The terrified screams of the trapped peasants sounded like souls in purgatory begging the Lord to set them free. They managed to get through the night and half day of terror and then sometime the next afternoon, the hatches were opened. The passengers rushed the ladders, and the crew threatened to lock them in for the rest of the voyage if they didn’t get back down. They could just die down there for all the sailors cared. They then announced that it was up to the passengers to mop up the floors of vomit, diarrhea, and piss. They were to hand the buckets back up to the crew, and the fetid mess would be tossed overboard. 

			
Because of the filth, there was fear of typhoid, cholera, and pneumonia. Two infants died in the first few days, followed by below-deck funerals with no priest present. After they said prayers, sailors came down and took those poor dead babies, wrapped them in some kind of cloth, and tossed them over the side like chum.

			
What hell were their husbands bringing them to? The only hope was that a wonderful new life was waiting for them in the New World. 

			
When the ship docked more than eight days after it had left Italy, the sisters-in-law were met at Ellis Island by the middleman’s middleman, put into quarantine with thousands of other immigrants for a week, questioned by men who spoke no Sicilian let alone Italian, numbered, examined again by doctors who touched them in places no men but their husbands had ever touched, and registered them. Three Sicilian women they’d become friendly with on the boat were classified as “undesirable” and denied admittance to the United States. Le donne La Barbera never saw their new friends again. 

			
After an agonizing wait in confinement at Ellis Island, would they be found “undesirable” too? They finally were granted admittance and hustled out to where the padrone’s thugs were waiting to load them onto the standing-room-only trans-continental railroad to Denver. 

			
When the train finally arrived, they unloaded their bags and waited in the vastness of the railroad station overnight. They found benches to sleep on until the train to Trinidad arrived in the morning. They boarded with dozens of new miners and wives of miners like themselves for the rest of the 116-mile trip to the coal town. The children were so exhausted and miserable that they cried non-stop.

			
“Is this just a sign of things to come?” Rosaria worried.

			
“No!” Maria tried to comfort her sister-in-law. “Aviamu na bona vita ntô Colorado.”—We will have a good life in Colorado. 

			
“Come inizi, così finisci,” Rosaria snapped. As you start, so you finish. 

			
It wasn’t optimistic, but it was truthful. And correct. 

			
When they arrived at the mining town, Maria and Rosaria saw not farmland but black smoke belching from furnaces and streets running with mud and sewage. Bedraggled miners carrying pickaxes were coming and going as unhealthy-looking children wandered aimlessly or sat outside broken down shacks with no windows. 

			
They finally saw their husbands, standing with their hats in hand, heads down, shame written over every inch of them. 

			
Maria and Rosaria ran to them, kids in tow, and kissed them all over their dirty faces. The men fought back tears as they loaded their wives and kids onto a borrowed buckboard for the short ride to their new home. 

			
The town reminded them of the hell ship—rough-housing workers yelling, filthy conditions, and scavenging vermin. This town, as they liked to call it, didn’t have streets, just mud ruts made by coal carts and horse-drawn wagons. Their new home near the mining site was a run-down, long, narrow log house with one window. 

			
It was not paradise. It was not even Sicily in the worst of times. 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 8 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 8 –

			
Beast on Beast 

			
By the Purgatory River

			
1914–1916

			
After coming to Colorado, the fire between Maria and Mariano had gone out. He was worked like a pack animal in the mine, never bringing home enough to keep his family fed. His back was starting to bend, and his hands and face were always blackened from coal. Lovemaking became brutal, rough, and necessary to keep Mariano going. 

			
In the intervening years, things went from bad to unbearable. They had tried their best, but nothing got better. Nothing could get better—not under these conditions.

			
The more Mariano and Ange slaved in Rocky’s mines, the more money they seemed to owe Rocky’s company. Changing company scrip into cold hard cash was a losing proposition. “And we thought the strozzino back in the old country were thieves,” Ange would moan, referring to the money lenders who charged impossibly high rates to the destitute farmers. 

			
“We have to do something. We have to fight for more money and a better way of life. We mean nothing to these ’Merigaans who own us. And they do own us, make no mistake,” Mariano would reply, slamming his right fist into his left palm.

			
But Maria didn’t complain. Who could she complain to? Who could she tell that, as miserable as life had been in Sicily after the bad times had hit, nothing had been as brutal as this? 

			
And yet she continued to have babies. Of course, the babies had not been planned, but not unwanted either. She didn’t even know there was such a thing as birth control, and if she had, she would have thought it was against God’s wishes. The first time she’d ever even been kissed or touched by a man was on her wedding night. What she knew about sex was that when a man wanted you, he had you. Even after it stopped being the best part of life. If you got pregnant, you prayed for a boy. She’d been told by her sister, Cologera, before Maria and Mariano got hitched, that sex was not something to be enjoyed but something to be endured. After Maria and Mariano made love for the first time, she worried that her sister was crazy because for her, at least, sex turned out to be the most exciting and naughtiest experience of her young life. 

			
Once she got to America, though, Maria began to understand the “endured” part. The only thing, however, was that sex did bring the chance of another baby, which was God’s blessing no matter how much a family struggled to survive. During the ninth month of her twelfth pregnancy, Maria started bleeding heavily. 

			
Her friend, Francesca Lanzone, who spoke a little English, rushed Maria to the local hospital owned by Colorado Iron and Fuel, which had been set up for employees of the company. At that time, Mariano was on a company watch list of men who had been stirring up discontent among the miners. As the wife of a known malcontent, Maria could have bled to death outside that hospital for all the doctors, nurses, and volunteer ladies (many of whom were wives of the mine managers) cared. 

			
Francesca would never normally have gone to the hospital and would have called upon one of the Sicilian ladies who birthed babies to help, but there wasn’t time. It wouldn’t have mattered anyway. It was already too late. The baby was stillborn. Francesca handed the dead infant to Maria in the cold metal hospital bed. The baby’s curls circled her tiny, perfect head like a halo. 

			
The midwife who was in charge of the birthing unit hated immigrants, especially “them WOPs.” She was so repulsed by them that she kept a copy in her pocket of a famous newspaper article to justify her hatred. The article called Southern Italian immigrants, “Swarthy, kinky-haired criminals.” 

			
That midwife had seen red when Maria and Francesca—two Guinea dagos yet—first entered the hospital. It didn’t matter that the mother was about to give birth or might be bleeding to death. She wasn’t going to make Maria’s agony any easier. 

			
Looking at Maria holding her dead infant, the midwife told her to stop carrying on. Babies died. Period. Even those that didn’t come out dead, she said, wouldn’t live long. “A quarter of ’em die in this town before their first birthday anyways.” And that was a fact. 

			
She gave Maria a bunch of rags to put between her legs and said, “Move along. We’ve got babies to care for.” As Maria struggled to get up from the bed, Francesca cringed with shame when the midwife said, “Those Guinea sows breed like animals. They’re the real Guinea pigs.” And then she laughed like she was as funny as Tom Major-Ball. 

			
Her next baby, the wild child Firenze, was born after they’d lost their home, while Maria was still mourning the loss of her precious baby-doll, whom she’d named Marian after her husband. She’d lost babies before—four in fact. But the others had been lost earlier in pregnancy and were not fully formed or ready to start living. 

			
When Firenze was born one year and two months later, Maria vowed to the Lord and the newest baby girl in her arms, that even though the devil wolf had come to her birthing and she clearly had the sign of wolf upon her, she would fight to the death to protect her from anything and anyone who would try to harm her—including Mariano. 

			
She didn’t care that Firenze had plainly been born different or looked different with those bright-red baby lips. 

			
What Firenze’s papa didn’t know at the time of her birth was just how different she was from the rest. But he’d learn.

			
Firenze was clearly born an alpha. Powerful. Ferocious. Determined to live. She would not become her papa’s prey. 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 9 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 9 –

			
Strike a Blow 

			
Berwind to Ludlow, Colorado 

			
1914 

			
So, how in hell did a good man’s soul rot and die on the vine as Mariano’s had? Why did Maria’s once-loving husband turn into a snake with no soul—but plenty of venom? Call it a slow death by rich, white men. 

			
Soon after he arrived in Colorado, Mariano started drinking more than he ever had back in the old country—mostly his own homebrew—which he and Maria made out in the woods. He even sold a bit of it to his friends for extra pocket change. It was a shame how low a man with such promise had fallen. 

			
Farming and tending his vines, animals, and crops from dawn to dusk had been his way of life back home, so it wasn’t as though he was afraid of hard work. But dawn to dusk in the pit of the earth was not a job fit for man nor beast. He bucked against the yoke of being owned by this John D. Rockefeller, Jr. fella whom he’d never even seen. He felt that, in America, he was nothing more than a beast of burden with no future. 

			
Maria thought the mine’s mighty bell, which was rung each day at 4:00 a.m. to wake the miners, was as different from the sweet sounds of the church bells in Sicily as heaven was from hell. 

			
Ange, who could always find the good in the bad, and the joke in the misery would say, “In America, the church bells are played by devils, and in Sicily by the saints.” Then he’d run around covering his ears like a clown. 

			
No matter how long they’d worked there, going down into the darkened mine chambers was always a shock to the system. 

			
The tops and sides of the mine shafts were held up by logs, so being crushed to death in a mine collapse or killed in an explosion were more than a worry, they were a reality.

			
One morning, as Mariano and Ange approached the mine they heard a mighty roar and felt the ground beneath them shake. 

			
“What the hell?” Ange screamed as he and Mariano ran, without thinking towards the mine. What they found was chaos and smoke. Men were stampeding out of the shaft and screaming. Some were badly burned, others bleeding. 

			
Mariano and Ange volunteered to try to rescue trapped miners. 

			
They were taken down into the belly of the mine and worked their way through tangled debris, clearing the ground and rebuilding walls as they went. They found four bodies, but they were nearly unrecognizable from being so badly burnt and mangled. They knew the men: Juan Suarez and Liberio D’Antonio, and Juan’s sons, twelve-year-old Enrique and fifteen-year-old Manolo. 

			
Mariano and Ange found the wives and children of their dead friends, who were gathered with all the other mining families, hoping for word. Even in this land where the nearly unbearable was normal, the news was devastating. Maria and Rosaria cooked meals and tended to the widows’ children, but there was no consoling them. All told, ten men died that day.

			
Colorado Fuel and Iron paid for the funerals with great fanfare. A week later, each family was given one hundred dollars—and an eviction notice. They had nowhere to go, and they didn’t read, write, or speak the language. As they left on foot with whatever belongings they had, the tragedy was such that even those women whose husbands and sons had been spared, screamed, wept, and ripped at their clothing. 

			
Is that the fate that awaits us as well? Maria and Rosaria asked themselves.

			
When it was printed in the newspaper a few weeks later that the explosion had been caused by a mine inspector who’d tried to relight his safety lamp and had set the methane on fire, the miners gathered in rage to protest.

			
Mariano and Filippo started a word-of-mouth campaign for a work stoppage. They managed to convince about a quarter of the miners to refuse to go down. But without pay, and under the threat of losing their jobs, the protest ended in a few days. Mariano’s rage did not.

			
But this was the lot the La Barbera brothers had signed on for. They worked heaving coal from dawn to dusk, hoping they’d escape the fate that had befallen so many of their brother miners. No one could understand a word that the guy next to him was speaking; misery was their universal language. 

			
The difference between Mariano and most of the other miners, was that Mariano wasn’t beaten, he was angry. Always angry.

			
Broke as he was, most Saturday nights, Mariano would comb his hair, grab the dollar he’d made the previous week at the card tables, and make his way to Mrs. Bianchi’s saloon. Ange usually stayed home and played with his growing family, but Mariano and his friends would gamble, drink, and scheme deep into the night about how they’d get even or kill their bosses.

			
“They work us to death or kill us with unsafe mines. Is that not murder?” Mariano would rage. “An eye for an eye, I say.” 

			
Filippo, who never missed a Saturday night, would shake his head and remind Mariano of how their work stoppage had failed, saying, “Cumpari! La pinna è fatta pî ricchi, ma pâ testa dû viddanu.”—The gallows are not made for the rich, but for the head of the peasant. 

			
Mariano would counter, “A peasant now, but not for long, goombah, not for long.” No one had any idea what the hell he meant, since every last man among them knew that fighting against all the power in the world was impossible. Would he really kill a manager? Then what would happen to his family?

			
The more down in their cups they got, the more they’d talk about how the white ’Merigaan ruled this land and how the Italians, the Greeks, the Blacks, and every other minority were their prey. 

			
But then, one night in 1913, as the usual men were sitting around the card table, Enrico Anastasi, a coal heaver who had been a professor in Sicily, walked in, slammed his palm down on the card table and announced that hope was on the way. 

			
He said word was spreading like a wildfire in a drought that an outfit called the United Mine Workers of America had shown up at nearby mines and were talking strike. In fact, he said, this group was hitting mining towns all across the country. The impossible was suddenly possible, instead of just the usual drunk talk.

			
Anastasi said there was strength in numbers. He had, he whispered, even joined the union already. 

			
The union organizers, he continued, had been holding rallies where men who sounded like preachers told miners that they could—had to—strike for better wages and safer mines. In fact, there was a rally of Italian miners coming up right near town. 

			
Mariano’s reaction? He slammed his glass down and said, “Deal the cards. Promises? Promises in America are as worthless as padruni contracts.” 

			
That first union rally a few weeks later was held in a tent outside of town and was filled with miners who wanted to know how they could possibly improve their sorry lot. Arcuri dragged the brothers with him. Mariano went with no expectations, but it was better than being home with his brood of hungry kids.

			
They arrived early enough to find seats in what became a standing-room-only crowd. A Sicilian speaker from the union, Enrico Scuderi, began by talking of the most recent tragedy, which the miners were still mourning.

			
Then he held up The New York Evening Post. He jabbed his finger over and over into the story and said, “The writer of this filth calls Italian immigrants ‘childlike, dependent, ignorant, and helpless.’ That’s what these rich mine owners back in New York City think of you,” he shouted, spitting on the ground. 

			
After pausing for effect, he asked, “Do you know the names Antonio Lorenzo, Stanislaso Vittani, Francisco Ronchetto, Pietro Giacabino, and Antonio Zapetto?”

			
The crowd shook their heads, shouting, “No!”

			
So Suderi explained. “Those were five Italian miners from the coal mine in Walsenberg, not twenty-five miles from here. They were murdered in cold blood by a group of ’Merigaan vigilantes who killed them after a friend of theirs, a saloon keeper, was killed in a fight.

			
“Later that night, these same ’Merigaans stormed the jail where the last two Italian miners were held and shot them to death like rabid dogs! The killers were never charged. And who owned the mine where these Italian miners had slaved? Colorado Fuel! Another Rockefeller mine. To him, to his managers, we Italians are not even human. We are just slaves who can be replaced when they kill us.”

			
The crowd started shouting their outrage, and Suderi hit them with a big one. “You’re shocked? That was the third deliberate massacre of Italians here since 1891.”

			
The miners were shocked and also perplexed. Who had been killed and why?

			
“And do you know what The New York Times, the famous newspaper in New York run by the friends of John D. Rockefeller, Jr. said about such crimes? About our kind? They said Italian immigrants, are ‘sneaky and cowardly descendants of bandits and assassins!’” He paused and added, “They said, ‘as good as rattlesnakes!’” 

			
The crowd was on their feet yelling, “Semu frati!” “Sfacchima!” “Tu sì mortu!” “Cazzo ê capi!” (“We’re brothers!” “Fuck off!” “You’re dead!” “Fuck the bosses!”)

			
It was very loud, none of it was good, nor would any of it make much sense if translated into English. 

			
To the amazement of Mariano and his group, Anastasi was called to speak. He talked of how it wasn’t just one newspaper with a hatred for Italians. He said another newspaper had called all Italian workers, “herds of steerage swine!” Anastasi was, after all, a respected professor, a learned man who probably had more education than those rich, white bigots in New York.

			
The crowd was up on their feet, shouting. Knowing this kind of passion could degenerate very quickly into a brawl, Anastasi gestured with his hands and asked them to sit and let him finish. “We don’t need to live like this! It’s in our heritage,” he told them, slamming his fist on the podium. “We are fighters. Our ancestors in Sicily were warriors against their oppressors. That’s what they lived for. That’s what many died for! Should we be less?” 

			
The crowd roared its approval, but the truth is, few of them had any real notion of their history. So, he gave them an earful of pride. They had heard the name “Mafia” back in the old county, but only as some loose group of criminal thugs located mostly in Palermo. 

			
The strikers knew about those brigands, but they didn’t know anything, really, about the origins of the Mafia—or any of what he was about to tell them. 

			
Like a man telling a bedtime story, he told them about the Sicilian rebels of the Middle Ages. “They stood against foreign conquerors like the Saracens, the Normans, and the Spaniards,” he said. “La Mafiusu—the boldness—that’s what folks called ‘em. They fought against their oppressors like we must fight against our American oppressors! They organized so they could fight against the rich, brutal landowners just as we must fight against the rich, brutal mine owners who have oppressed us. We must be like the Mafia of old!”

			
Then, as loud as he possibly could over the din, he cried, “Megghiu muriri ‘ntra li granfi di lu liuni chi sutta la cuda di l’asin.”—Better to die in the clutches of the lion than under the tail of a jackass. 

			
The crowd’s roar could be heard all the way to the fancy homes of the mine managers in town. Like in the stages of an opera, Anastasi calmed them down again. 

			
Assuming a professorial tone, he said Sicily had survived no matter how many times it had been invaded because of strong, proud, fighting men. Men like they could become.

			
Anastasi had touched these men in a place that hadn’t been touched since they had boarded those devil ships—their pride. 

			
He also made it very clear that La Mafiusu of old was not what they now knew as “The Black Hand.” The Black Hand, he said, were the lowdown bastardi. Sure, some of them had immigrated to places like New Orleans, New York City, and Colorado and brought the name with them. They were nothing more than disorganized thugs, extortionists, and blackmailers. Mostly though, they were just dimwits. They’d leave extortion notes with black handprints on them, threatening to kill families if the marks failed to pay up.

			
When the alleged Black Handers showed up to collect, their intended victims would hide, take aim, and shoot them to death instead. 

			
“Dumb as a box of rocks,” Anastasi said to a hall full of guffaws. 

			
When all was said and done, it was a night to remember. The United Mine Workers representatives gave these men hope that there was a way out of the bondage they’d found themselves in. They could once again become men of honor.

			
It had been perfectly, operatically orchestrated—sonata, followed by a slow movement, followed by a minuet, ending in a rousing finale: “Ma-fi-a! Ma-fi-a!”

			
Of course, they were nowhere near becoming La Mafiusu of old, or even strikers, but they were on fire with hope. Hope is a powerful weapon, and even a sliver of it can be more powerful than anything the rich men in New York, with all their firepower, could destroy. 

			
Mariano was hooked. The more speeches he attended, week after week, the more convinced he was that they could be as fearless as the warriors and knights of the ancient order of Mafia.

			
Mariano and Ange attended every meeting and vowed, along with their paisanu, that they’d fight to the death for a decent living wage, safer mines, and payments to the families of men who were crippled or killed. They’d fight so their own wives and children wouldn’t have to live like beasts—ten or twenty crammed into a long shack, scrounging for food and dying young.

			
Those speeches did their job, enraging Sicilian miners into a united, if unruly, mob. They lined up by the hundreds to join the union and to strike.

			
The UMWA also rallied the descendants of former slaves and the other immigrant miners from the Mexicans to the Irish, Germans, Chinese, British, and Greeks—until thousands of miners became proud union men. 

			
And then they struck.

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 10 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 10 –

			
How to Kill WOPs, Wogs, Women, Wetbacks, and Wee Ones

			
(And Create the Mafia by Mistake)

			
Ludlow, Colorado

			
April 20, 1914

			
Nobody outside the camps ever believed a wild mob of immigrant “wops, wogs, spicks, micks, afros, and cholos” as the mine bosses called them, could be a match for Rockefeller. 

			
But the strikers believed it. What they didn’t understand in their riled-up state, however, was that Rocky wasn’t a man to take shit from nobody, as they say. Keeping the union out of the mines would be worth it in the end whatever the cost in the present. 

			
True to his word, he hired goons from an outfit called Baldwin-Felts Detective Agency to break the strike—and if they broke the backs and heads of strikers who got in the way, well, that was just the price they’d pay for walking off the job. 

			
It wasn’t too long before an eighty-three-year-old lady, a famous reformer called “Mother Jones,” showed up in Trinidad and began encouraging the strikers to fight on. The law arrested her almost immediately “for her own protection.” They threw her in a hospital with bars on the windows and guards all around. 

			
Her lockup got the strikers so enraged that 1,000 of them met at union headquarters with Mariano, Ange, Filippo, and Gaetano among them. The strikers had been warned by a general of the Colorado militia, John Chase, that if they took to the streets, blood would be shed. Men would die. A union representative told them flat out that the US government had no problem killing men who disobeyed the rules. Not the law, mind you, but the rules. 

			
So, the strikers’ wives organized and marched in their stead. Maria was so angry at what mining had done to her once-loving husband (and what she feared would happen to her sons), she decided to join the march and bring the children with her. She asked Rosaria to come with her. “Even guards wouldn’t hurt children,” she said. She was wrong. 

			
By the time they joined the march it had grown to 400 women and children. The marchers were met by General John Chase’s cavalry regiment. The clamor and high-pitched yelling and singing of the women and children spooked his horse. That war horse had seen battle, blood, and bullets, but it had probably never seen hundreds of angry ladies before. The beast reared up and threw that general in his fancy uniform clear off his saddle and right into the mud. In front of God and everyone. 

			
The roar of women and children laughing and heckling went down the line from front to back like a wave. That general’s pride was torn like a Confederate dollar bill. He remounted with as much dignity as a mud-covered officer could muster. Furious, he did the unthinkable for a so-called “warrior gentleman.” He raised his arm and ordered the cavalry to draw their sabers and rifles with bayonets bared and charge the women and children. It was a disgrace to the uniform they wore.

			
The marchers fell back screaming, cursing, and throwing rocks at the militiamen. Both Rosaria’s and Maria’s arms got slashed, while their friend Francesca’s ear was nearly severed. The guards who stood outside the hospital would not allow the injured women and children to enter for treatment. 

			
When Maria returned home, battered and cut up, and told Mariano what had happened and how others had been “Chicagoed” (beaten—to within an inch of their lives), Mariano went mad. It was not just Maria’s injuries that drove him crazy, it was also the great injury to his manhood that could not be tolerated. The cavalry had disrespected him by treating his wife like a puttana—a whore. Whatever small reservations Mariano may once have had about trying to make peace with the mine owners disappeared like snow in the spring. UMWA would now become so important to him, and he was so sure they could win this strike that he volunteered to become a union organizer.

			
What had started out as a strike for a decent living wage turned into what would be called The Colorado Coalfield War. Union agitators—Ange among the first—got the boot. He and his family were thrown out of the company shack they shared with Mariano, Maria, and the kids. They moved to the union-sponsored tent city of Ludlow, where 1,200 other fired strikers and their families would eventually be holed up. In all, there must have been over thirty different languages spoken by these families including Italian, Greek, Mexican, Shoshoni, Irish, and English among the folks who were black, white, and brown. 

			
Rosaria cried every night after she’d put her children (there were three now) to bed on the tent’s cold, wood plank floor. She’d plead with Ange to beg for his job back and quit the damned strike. But he couldn’t go against Mariano. He’d be called a scab, and he’d be an outcast and a disgrace among the other immigrant miners, especially those from Lucca Sicula. When Mariano finally did get the big boot, the union rewarded his loyalty by moving him and his brood to a communal bunkhouse, miles from Ludlow. He was proud. Maria wasn’t. She felt that living there while her sister-in-law and children were in a tent miles away made the nightmare even worse, if possible. Mariano, enraged that she didn’t share his union pride and embarrassed because he knew she saw him as a failure, hit her and shoved her to the floor one night in a rage. It was the first time he’d been violent with her. Ashamed but prideful nonetheless, he told her she should thank that “Jesus god of hers” they had a roof over their heads. 

			
She didn’t dare fight back—he was her husband after all. She had no defenses. Yet. 

			
Even though the union organizers had thought the strikers would win their demands quickly because the mines couldn’t operate without them, the strike dragged on. And on. The La Barberas, like all the other striking families, were living on union rations. 

			
John D. Rockefeller, Jr. was not a happy man. In fact, he was so disgusted and angry that the goons he’d hired hadn’t ended the strike, he went ahead and did what rich men do: He made a deal with the government. In this case, the governor of Colorado, Elias Milton Ammons, who allowed Rocky to hire the Colorado National Guard using his own private money. The Guardsmen—even though they were part of the US military—joined up with the bums from Baldwin-Felts and became Rocky’s private army. Still the strike continued.

			
When Ange and Mariano got together from time to time, Ange told him the Guards who drove around the striker’s camp had mounted a turret machine gun on top of an armored car they called “The Death Special.” He said those goons would get into the camp in the middle of the night and fire that machine gun around the tents, paying no mind to who they could have hit. Mariano, who had grown up surrounded by corruption in Sicily, was not surprised that the army could be bought. He was devastated nonetheless to know they’d come so far for the same old shit.

			
Mariano gave Ange a six-shooter that he’d stolen from the stash in the union shack. “Be careful. But kill them if they try to kill you or hurt your family,” he warned. 

			
Ange said he had every intention of doing just that. “No one,” he declared, pointing the gun for effect, “will hurt my family. I am like Mafia!” 

			
For Rocky’s militia men, though, shooting those miners at night was like shooting fish in a barrel. So, Ange and the other strikers’ families came up with an ingenious way—they thought—to keep the wives and kids out of the line of fire. They dug trenches under their tents so families could take cover under the wooden floors when the Death Special machine gun started its nightly bombardment. They lay under the boards in the wet mud, shivering and miserable, but at least safe from bullets. 

			
Whenever Ange got discouraged—and even though the mine was hardly operating at that point—he thought about talking to other strikers about going back to work to end the “madness” as Rosaria called it. But Mariano would shame him out of it. He demanded that Ange never give in, no matter what. “Remember what you said? We are like Mafia!” Mariano’s words rang in Ange’s ears. He wasn’t a coward. He wasn’t a scab. But he was like Mafia! 

			
Finally, on the night of April 20, 1914, hundreds of striking miners of every color and creed in tent city, driven to outrage, decided to fight back. Hard. Nobody knows for sure who shot first, but for fourteen straight hours, the state militia fired their machine guns at the striking miners, and the miner’s fired back. The Greek strike leader Louis Tikas was shot in the back and killed. 

			
Ange killed an agent of the federal government and at least a few militiamen. This gun battle was only the first of many shootouts that would make the La Barbera family famous…or maybe “infamous” would be a better word.

			
The families, including Rosaria and the kids, hiding under the tent that night, were scared out of their minds. 

			
Rosaria hugged the children and tried to keep them quiet. “We can’t let the bad men know we are here, or they could shoot us,” she whispered to them to please not make any noise. “Per favore, per favore, miei bellissimi figli—Please, please, my beautiful children…shhhh.”

			
When her littlest one, Giuliana, started to whimper, Rosaria did the unthinkable and covered her mouth with her hand. It was hard enough to breathe under the tent, and this made it worse for the tot. But it was the only way, she believed, to keep them safe. She was wrong.

			
They had no way of knowing what was happening outside. Nobody seemed to know—even the ones outside doing the fighting. But sometime during the night—and Arcuri and Candiano bore witness to it—Rocky’s hired men went crazy with rage. They brought in giant cans and ran from tent to tent pouring oil on top of the canvas tents, then set them ablaze, creating an inferno of death with women and children trapped underneath.

			
Rosaria smelled the smoke, but because they were hiding under the floor of their tent, she didn’t know it had been set on fire. There was such chaos, and the sounds of people screaming in agony that it was impossible to know anything except that she had to stay under the tent to keep her children safe. It would have been impossible to even imagine that their tents were deliberately being set on fire with families trapped below. When their tent began to burn on top of them, it was too late to escape.

			
Rosaria and her three helpless children, Roberto, Giuliana, and Umberto, along with dozens of others were burnt alive like roasted pigs in a pit. The news stories called it, “the worst act of inhumanity anybody had ever seen.” 

			
That was God’s truth—and these settlers and miners had heard about and seen frontier atrocities for themselves—men who’d been scalped, children who’d been stolen, women who’d been raped by trappers or kidnapped by local tribes and had their faces covered in tattoos.

			
Some of the families who had been able to escape from under the burning tents were shot at as they fled. The stench of burning flesh, the screams of children and their mothers burning to death would never be forgotten by anyone who survived.

			
The day after the fire and massacre, the immigrant miners from Lucca Sicula were among those searching the scorched earth for the blackened and suffocated bodies of women, infants, and little kids. The official government report said only two women and eleven kids had been killed—twenty-five altogether including the men—and that’s what most newspapers reported. But the volunteers (Arcuri among them) who had gone in and removed the dead counted at least fifty-five bodies including Ange’s wife and children. Their bodies, burned down to bone, lay there like the leftovers from a cookout. 

			
One female reporter wrote that rescuers found nine kids with their fingers burnt off from holding onto the edges of the pit. The La Barbera children were among them.

			
The day after the massacre, a Greek miner, Achilles Diakos, ran around warning everyone that the militiamen had snuck back into camp. Survivors chased the bastards through the still-smoking hellfire grounds. When they caught them trying to cut off the heads and hands of the burnt corpses so they couldn’t be identified, the strikers drove them off before they hacked up too many bodies. Those whose bodies had been mutilated were never officially reported among the dead. 

			
Mariano was still at the mine, rounding up stragglers who hadn’t joined the strike, fifteen miles outside Trinidad. News of the massacre had not yet reached them. The telephone lines had been cut, and the union leaders had mostly all gone to Ludlow before the attack. Arcuri stole a horse and rode hard the next day to deliver the terrible news in person. There was no way of softening it, so when he found Mariano, he grabbed onto him as he had the first day they’d met at the mine. He had no choice but to tell him what they’d seen for themselves that night and what they’d seen and heard the next day. 

			
Yes, Arcuri said, he had seen what remained of Ange’s wife and kids. Rosaria had a body, but no head. He knew it was her because her dead, blackened children were still in her arms.

			
Mariano began screaming like a wild beast. Arcuri tried to hold onto him, but Mariano punched his giant of a friend, knocking him down. 

			
“Ma Arcangelo? Ca’ veni?”—What about Arcangelo?—“I must go to my brother!”

			
Arcuri got up off the ground and grabbed onto Mariano again to deliver the final blow: Ange had been shot in the back as he was running towards his family’s burning tent. He was dead. But he’d been a hero, a warrior, and had killed a federal agent; he’d killed armed soldiers. He’d been like the Mafia of old, fighing the oppressors. 

			
It was right then that Mariano, the man who had once loved, laughed, protected, and believed in right and wrong, died too. What remained was a monster.

			
Fierce. Brutal. Dago.

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 11 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 11 –

			
Resist. Defend. Defeat.

			
Ludlow, Colorado

			
Late May 1914

			
In the embers grey and red

			
Here we found them where they bled,

			
Here we found them stark and dead.

			
Here on Ludlow Field.

			
—Frank J. Hayes, UMWA President, 1914

			
Right after the massacre, and in the bloody ten days that followed, the United Mine Workers of America gave out free arms and ammo to any striker who wanted them. Mariano was among the first of God-knows-how-many strikers and survivors to take to the hills, armed to the teeth. One newspaper wrote, “…the hills in every direction seem suddenly to be alive with men.” Every man from Lucca Sicula joined the other oppressed miners in the hills and mountains to fight against the government in the land of the free. Even though it was an army of white, Black and brown strikers, speaking every language imaginable, they didn’t have to communicate by words. They knew what they had to do. 

			
When news got out about the massacre in Ludlow, demonstrations broke out all over the USA. Something like 5,000 citizens demonstrated in front of the US Capitol. Workers’ unions from all around the country sent members to Colorado to fight against Rockefeller and his private army.

			
Meantime, The New York Times, the so-called “paper of record” whose editors were white men in black silk hats—men who ran in the same circle as the Rockefellers—never believed they would find themselves on the wrong side of history. The editors wrote of the strikers: “With the deadliest weapons of civilization in the hands of savage-minded men, there can be no telling to what lengths the war in Colorado will go unless it is quelled by force.” 

			
Editorials like that one, as well as pressure from the rich establishment, had so scared the governor of Colorado that he caved to pressure. So did President Woodrow Wilson, a toady if there ever was one. He sent federal troops in to wage war on the miners—men who only wanted freedom and a decent living wage in the “promised land” of America. 

			
The cavalry came in big numbers, but at least one troop train of soldiers bound for the area mutinied rather than kill working men like themselves. But after all that? The miners lost the war anyway despite a great and mighty effort. Eventually, the strike just ended. 

			
But the outrage didn’t. 

			
To shut people up, the US Congress held a hearing with Rockefeller as the guest of honor in the hot seat. Many thought he should have been hung for murder just for his attitude up there. It was clear though that, to him, none of the dead miners, or their women and children were of consequence. 

			
The committee chairman asked Rocky if keeping the union out of Colorado Fuel and Iron would be worth it even “if it costs all your property and kills all your employees.” He answered, “It is a great principle.”

			
Not that it mattered that he gave such an answer because, to the great consternation of the working man, Rockefeller was never held to account nor punished for his crimes against humanity. Neither were the murdering Baldwin-Felts detectives nor the National Guardsmen. Nobody took blame and nobody got punished. 

			
The miners’ families’ deaths were, in the end, not of consequence. They weren’t rich, their daughters didn’t have shiny blond hair like the robber barons’ debutant daughters, their sons would never go to college and take over their father’s vast holdings. So really, who cared?

			
Maybe the government just plum forgot to put this whole tragic thing in the schoolbooks, because you won’t find it there. But it happened. Damn right, it happened. 

			
The great injustice of it all, the great sadness of it all, so inflamed the already-raging Mariano that he was finally brought to the point of mindless fury. Rockefeller walked away, while Mariano’s brother and family were dead. Ange with a bullet in his back, Rosaria without a head, and the children clinging to their mother as they all burned to death. The image haunted his every waking moment and nightmare-filled nights. Any shred of humanity that Mariano had left in him at that point, he cut out like a canker sore. 

			
He couldn’t stop repeating the words in his head: “Even if it… kills all your employees.” And their wives and babies. 

			
Yes, Mariano had fought with his union brothers against the militia, but that wasn’t personal, that was war against the establishment.

			
The murder of his family though? That was personal. Mariano’s honor depended on avenging those deaths, no matter what danger and what misery it might bring upon his own family as a result. The deaths of his brother and family could not go unanswered. Could not go unavenged.

			
He had to make a personal kill. An honor kill. His rage had to be satisfied. For him, a knife across the throat was the most honorable way for a Sicilian to get true vengeance. 

			
So, at some point, Mariano snuck into the Baldwin-Felts bunkhouse, his six-shooter in his pocket just in case things went bad. He snuck up to the cots and slashed the throat of one, more likely two, sleeping goons in cold blood and rubbed their spurting blood on his own face. 

			
But he’d been spotted running away and a gunfight ensued. Wily critter that he was though, he managed to escape, but his wanted poster was put up all over Colorado. He was happy to see they offered such a big reward: “Wanted Dead or Alive: Marian Barbarian for Murder of Two Agents. $500 Reward.” They even had a sketch of him, but it didn’t look anything like him. Gaetano told Mariano he was one of the FBI’s ten most wanted men. That made him proud. A top ten out of millions.

			
He was even prouder when he found out that “barbarian” meant a savage, uncivilized man. Someone to be afraid of. Yup, he liked that a lot. It suited him. 

			
Mariano was no longer like other men. He was a barbarian like the poster said. A barbarian who never looked back, or, if he ever blamed himself for forcing Ange to stay and fight—for refusing to allow his brother to go back to the mines—he never admitted it. He never regretted killing Rocky’s men, even though it would force his family to live wild and on-the-run. 

			
He dug in harder. Vengeance, not blame. Never forgive, never forget. Never become a rat no matter what. His cause had been right and just. He was angry, too, that the union didn’t have the same grit to fight to the end the way Anastasi had said the Mafiusu of olden times had done. 

			
He would never trust the American ways again. He wanted to be like the resistance warriors of old Sicily. 

			
Resistiri. Difenniri. Onori. Omertà. Mafia.—Resist. Defend. Honor. Courage. Mafia.

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 12 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 12 –

			
Purgatory/Heaven/Hell

			
By the Purgatory River

			
May 1916 

			
Firenze never wished she’d been born “normal.” Or even human. 

			
They say, right out of the womb, she felt the violence inside of her papa and smelled the fear seeping from the pores of her mama and siblings. It’s said she knew from the beginning that her father was dangerous. Maybe that’s a yarn, but help had arrived to save her that first night. And yes, it was in the form of a she-wolf. 

			
Seems likely she always knew things. Like things about the female Alpha Grey. Was that wolf her real mother, she wondered. Did she belong outside in the wilderness with her and the pack and not inside this terrible wooden place? Of course, babies can’t think, well not as far as anybody knows, but she always swore she had those thoughts even as an infant. She never much cared if people thought she was loco. Or mavara. 

			
But Firenze was clearly different from the start. She started to crawl at four months and attempted to talk at around the same time. The other kids could see the frustration on her baby face when she couldn’t form words. So, she’d howl. Bloooo….

			
Maria hid as much of Firenze’s too-fast progress as she could from Mariano, knowing he’d start in on the witch business, and when he got drunk, God knows what he’d do. But lately he had other things on his mind—like becoming the bootleg king of Las Animas County. 

			
That same year, when the snow started to melt, they left that hellish shack, carrying what few possessions they had with them, and went in search of a new place to live. They found a spot in the fertile valley near the Purgatoire River. The name couldn’t have been better suited to them because the family really was in purgatory back then. The area they found was isolated and uninhabited, so there wasn’t much chance they’d be found. 

			
They set about building another cabin and preparing the land for planting. Mariano’s friend and his first “employee,” his faithful paisanu, Gaetano, had stolen a sack of sugar beet seeds and some hand tools for Mariano. In exchange, he’d get a cut of the first batch of bootleg. 

			
Maria hoped Mariano would stay so consumed with his new enterprise that he wouldn’t give a damn about the baby. He seemed to have forgotten about Firenze altogether; he just didn’t seem to notice her anymore. 

			
By the time spring rolled around and the ground had softened up enough to prepare it for planting, Mariano’s plan to become rich and powerful began to take shape. Story goes that one fine morning, the whole family was up early and hard at work digging up the newly thawed earth using their hands, sticks, and Gaetano’s stolen tools. 

			
It was necessary to start planting the first crop of sugar beets to get a jump start on Mariano’s new business. And this was the perfect day because the moon was in a waning phase—the best time to plant root crops. It was during this phase that the moon’s energy shifted below the ground to where root crops grow. 

			
Maria fed the baby at dawn and left her fast asleep in her crude cradle (which was barely holding together after rocking half a dozen babies over the years), then she went out to join Mariano and the children. 

			
The day was warm, and the sun was a true blessing after the unbearable and unimaginable winter. They had a new cabin that wasn’t as drafty and miserable as the shack had been, and Maria felt things might finally turn around for them. After all, they had somehow made it out alive after a blizzard that had killed hundreds of people.

			
The ground around the old cabin had been covered all winter in three to four feet of snow with constant, freezing winds that could blow up to more than sixty miles an hour. That was followed by the thaw, which brought mud slides to the unforested areas and ankle-deep mud everywhere else. Bad then, good for planting now. As long as the nights didn’t dip below twenty-nine degrees, the seedlings would be safe.

			
Spring was almost here, and Mariano hadn’t even flown into a rage for a few weeks. Maybe Jesus had heard Maria’s prayers, and the miracle she had asked for was coming true. 

			
Down below, Gaetano had been working Mariano’s contacts in the union all winter long. Many men who had been fired or had gone back to slaving in the mines, were, if not as desperate as Mariano, then, at least as downtrodden and hungry for a way out. Gaetano was looking for workers for Mariano—workers who would become soldiers in Mariano’s war against the system. He couldn’t pay them at first, but Maria came up with an idea: The men who worked for him would share in the first year’s profits—once he took his cut. He was giddy with the idea of beating the system that had beaten them to a pulp with pulp—his sugar beet pulp. 

			
The Barbera’s lot hadn’t improved yet, but at least now there was a plan and some measure of hope. Maybe there was even a way to get back to Sicily. At least that was Maria’s dream. 

			
On that particular day, the sun was shining, and the air was warm and smelled of pine and spring. The virgin ground was soft, wet, and fertile. 

			
Best of all, Maria’s magical baby, her little Firenze, had survived. She hadn’t been devoured by the savage beast, hadn’t been killed by her beast of a father, and was thriving against all odds. 

			
Maria was so happy for the first time in a very long time that she started singing a Sicilian folk song, making the kids join in as they raked and prepared the earth. 

			
After five hours of hard, but good work, her breasts started aching, and she realized it was past feeding time. She’d forgotten all about it because Firenze hadn’t yet started screaming for a breast. Odd, because she was a hearty, hungry little thing. 

			
And where was Mariano? He wasn’t in the field they’d carved out. Had he gone into the cabin? But why would he? There was nothing for him in there, and she hadn’t seen him heading that way.

			
“Mariano,” she called out. “A unni si?” There was no answer.

			
Then to the kids, “Petrantoniu, Calandra a! Trova a to patri.”—Go find your father. 

			
“Mama!” Calandra teased, “Chista è America! ‘Callie m’havi a chiamare.”—This is America! Call me my American name, ‘Callie!’

			
Maria laughed, shaking her head. “Ho key, amuri mei. Cawlee.”—OK, my love. 

			
Then, to herself, scared Mariano would spoil the day, “Spero ca non è svinutu ubbriacatu sutta n’àrvuru.”—I hope he’s not passed out drunk under a tree somewhere. 

			
She told the kids she was going inside to get Firenze for her feeding, and they’d better not slack off while she wasn’t watching: “La barbabietola duci non crisci di sulu.”—The sweet beet doesn’t grow by itself. 

			
Maria put down her handmade hoe, anxious to relieve her heavy, swollen breasts and walked into the cabin humming. Then she screamed. 

			
Firenze was gone. 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 13 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 13 –

			
Blue’s Moon 

			
By the Purgatory River

			
That Same Day 

			
That little baby, she knew things. 

			
She was just four months old, but she could smell Mariano approaching. She could sense he wasn’t coming the way her family always came and went. He was coming for her from behind—from the place where there were many, many trees. Where was Mama? 

			
She sensed danger—smelled it in her papa’s sweat; she knew she was in as much danger as she’d been in that first day. She hadn’t formed enough of her power to know why he was coming for her. Just that he was. 

			
Nobody can say what that viper really had in mind. Since he’d already figured he could use her power to curse his enemies, why would he want to harm her? 

			
The story goes that he’d gone outside to pee the night before when everybody was asleep. The kids were passed out in their rag quilts on the floor. Maria was in their bed. 

			
As he started to pee against a tree, she was there. Firenze. Mariano believed she was staring at him from a few feet away—out there in the tall grass, giving him what he thought was the evil eye, ‘Il malocch.’

			
The next day, when baby Firenze sensed danger and realized her mama was not inside the cabin, she panicked. Instincts of a wolf cub. 

			
Damn! If she hadn’t managed to climb out of the cradle and creep and crawl out the open front door. She couldn’t see Mama over the tall grass—and no one could see her as she crept along. 

			
She somehow knew Mama couldn’t protect her from Papa if she wasn’t there. She lifted up her little head, her wild, black baby hair blowing in the sweet spring breeze. 

			
Like a feral animal she sniffed the air. That way. Yes, that’s the way! She picked up the pace of her crawl and made it from the grassy area to the dark area where the trees were. Even though it was where Papa had come from, instinct drove her on in that direction anyway. She stopped, lifted her nose, and sniffed again. Papa was still in the place of trees—somewhere—but she had to go through it to get to the other side where she’d be safe. 

			
She continued to crawl. The earth was no longer soft and covered with grass. Grass couldn’t grow well in the dark place. There were many rocks and things that stung; rough ground that scraped and tore into the baby skin on her knees and palms. She was bleeding, but her rag diaper was the only covering she had against the forest. 

			
Mariano was close, so close. He started calling out in sing-song. “Firenzedda Firenze! T’ha femmari! Fèmmati.”—Baby Firenze! Stop. Stop!—Then to himself, “Prima o poi ti pigghiu, mavara!”—I’ll get you sooner or later. 

			
Again, to himself: “Ti prenderò mavara!”—I will get you, witch!

			
Like a madman, he was calling to his four-month-old baby girl as though she was a dog who could understand and obey. Roll over. Sit. Stay. 

			
Mariano was so used to everyone in his world—which had become smaller and smaller since running from the law—obeying his every word that he figured…well, who the hell knows what he figured? But this was a man who didn’t make idle threats. Why bother? Every threat he made was real. 

			
He was getting closer. Too close! 

			
Baby Firenze sniffed the air again. She was getting confused. Should she go this way? That way? His footsteps were hard and loud on the ground. It was not like he was tracking an animal and had to be quiet. He was getting close. Very close. 

			
Her dirty cloth diaper got stuck on a sticker bush and ripped away, spraying her scent in the breeze. Firenze started to whimper. Then he was there. 

			
He spotted the tiny baby, naked to the elements. She looked at him. He heard the growl of an animal. A big animal. He could leave her here for the animals, but he’d come too close. She was a witch, so maybe the animals would be afraid to kill her. He had to make sure she was dead so she couldn’t curse him or his enterprise. He drew his knife and went in for the kill. 

			
She watched him, helpless. 

			
Then, even though the ground in that area wasn’t muddy at all, he somehow lost his footing, tried to regain it, and fell backwards and smashed his head—hard—on a huge rock. The first thing he heard was the crack of his skull. The last thing he heard before passing out was another growl. But the last thing he thought? That the cursed baby had done it.

			
Firenze started to crawl away from him. She must get to the safe place, back to her mama. She heard a howl and looked up. Two blue eyes were staring down at her. Her other mama.

			
Maria heard that wolf. 

			
Ooowwoooo. 

			
What she didn’t hear was the very faint baby howl that came after it. “Bloooo.” 

			
Maria, frantic to find Firenze and save her, not just from Mariano but now also from a wolf, tore through the forested mountain towards the howl like a crazed mother bear, screaming the baby’s name. 

			
The children, having lived in the wilderness, knew how to track animals and humans and saw the baby’s crawl marks in the earth. “Mama! Mama!” they screamed. “Firenze accussì jè!”—She’s this way. Maria, her long calico dress and apron ripped and muddy, ran to where the children were pointing to the ground. 

			
Maria looked at the hand and knee prints and put her head in her hands. Even though the baby was advanced for her age, she still was too little to crawl this distance. Or any distance really. What the hell? There was no time to think; everything was happening so fast…

			
Michelina, the second girl (who the kids all called “Mickey”), had run ahead of them in the forest and called out that she’d found something. When the family reached her, she was standing next to the baby’s diaper still stuck on the bush. She pointed to the ground with one hand, her other hand covering her mouth to keep from screaming. 

			
Next to the diaper were both Papa’s long footprints and the five-inch-long claw marks of a huge animal. The strides of both man and beast were far enough apart to see they both had been running. 

			
Inside the paw prints were streaks of blood. Whose blood? The animal’s, Papa’s, or the baby’s? 

			
“Firenze!” Maria yelled over and over. All she got in response was the howling of the wolf. 

			
“Marianu! Marianu!” she called. “Arrispunni pi faùri! A unni sì? Lassati sulu lu picciriddu a.”—Where are you? Please, Mariano, leave the baby alone. 

			
Then, once again, she reached down deep inside of herself and prayed to her Lord and Savior, Jesus, to save her baby. Could they survive without Mariano? She didn’t know, but she didn’t pray for him. 

			
They trekked deeper into the forest following the tracks. 

			
“Mama! Mama!” Peter got to the clearing first. He stopped dead in his tracks and cried. “Vidu papà, ddassutta. Mortu mi pari!”—I see Papa! There! I think he’s dead! 

			
Maria pushed the kids out of the way and entered the clearing. Mariano was lying still on the ground, blood gushing from his head. His arm was ripped open, his pants covered in animal hair. He was unconscious and moaning, more dead than alive. Maria looked down at him and didn’t even bother to check his breathing or injuries; she instead tore off a piece of her apron and told the twins, Callie and Peter, to wrap the rag around their papa’s arm and stay with him while she took the other kids to look for Firenze. Maria wasn’t the only one who hoped Mariano was dead and that the baby was alive. The twins made a pact as they watched over their near-dead father: They’d help Mama to make it without him. Somehow, they knew that despite his strength and guile, they’d be better off.

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 14 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 14 –

			
Wolf Bait 

			
The Forest Near the Purgatory River

			
Spring 1916 

			
Mickey, who had taken to wearing her brothers’ duds when they grew out of them, was tracking ahead of the rest of the kids when she spotted what she thought could be Firenze about one hundred feet in front of her in the forest. She wasn’t sure because the trees were so heavy with leaves, and the ground cover was so thick, it was too dark to see. But whatever the thing was that was moving on the ground, it didn’t seem to have fur, a shell, or scales. 

			
Forgetting to step quietly and hold her breath as she’d been taught to do when tracking, Mickey let out a gasp and rushed towards the form. Yes, it was her baby sister all right, and she was crawling—not crying, mind you—but crawling along, naked as a jaybird. 

			
Mickey could see that her baby sister was struggling but she was still doing an impossibly good job of creeping through forest’s deep underbrush. And she was heading straight for a clearing ahead. Mickey was confused because what she saw didn’t make any sense no way, no how. Could the infant have crawled by herself through a forest for what had to be at least a mile? Was she just seeing what she wanted to see? Was that moving form actually a ghost, a spirit, a devil? 

			
In a few seconds, Mickey got a clear look—it was Firenze all right, and her shock and fear turned to relief, relief to tears, and tears into a tear-ass run towards the baby. 

			
Mickey moved as fast as her legs could carry her through the forest, yelling, screaming, “Firenze! Firenze!” her arms out in front of her to gather up her battered little sister. The baby turned her head towards Mickey as though she knew her name when she heard it. But as Mickey got to within two feet of touching her, an animal bounded out of the clearing ahead, aiming right for them. Mickey instinctively reached for Firenze. Why hadn’t she thought to take the six-shooter from the house? She was as good a shot as any boy. 

			
Holy dear Christ. It was the wolf with the spectral blue eyes. Before Mickey could grab her sister, the wolf grabbed the baby by the scruff of her neck and ran into the forest and disappeared. “Stop! Please stop!” Mickey cried. 

			
But they were gone. 

			
Mickey knew it was the same she-wolf that had invaded their cabin the night Firenze was born. Did that devil from hell come to finish off what it had started? Or perhaps finish off what their father hadn’t? 

			
When the rest of the family caught up to Mickey, her trousers were torn, and her face was streaked with tears and blood. Shaking, she pointed her finger towards where the wolf had run away with the baby. 

			
“Mama! La Lupa!” she bellowed like a banshee

			
Maria grabbed her and shook her hard. “Lu lupu arrubbò lu picciridda?”—Did the wolf steal the baby?

			
Mickey nodded, knowing by the look on her mother’s face that she’d better stop bawling and own up to the fact that she let the baby be taken. She pointed again towards the woods. 

			
Mickey’s sniffle was the last sound they heard. No growl of a beast, no cry of a baby. There was not even a sound from where they’d left Peter and Callie with Mariano probably to die, if he hadn’t already kicked the bucket, praise Jesus. 

			
The children showed Maria the tracks. They tried to follow them, but the forest was dark with new leaves filling every tree, and the soggy ground was full of tracks. Many creatures, big and small, had passed through here. 

			
“Picciriddu meu! Unni è la me picciotta? Dio, ti pregu sarba lu me picciriddu!”—My baby! Where is my little girl? God, please save my baby!—Maria cried into the deathly quiet woods.

			
There were too many tracks from too many animals to tell which were those of the wolf that had taken Firenze. Her miracle baby had survived the night of the wolf on the evening of her birth, but she knew she could not survive this day. 

			
As they trudged along, searching without a shot of a chance, the kids began to cry and cling to Maria. Mickey was sure they were getting too deep in to find their way out. Truth be told, they all knew it. The Greenhorn is a beautiful mountain, but it is a deadly one—just like the animals that live there. 

			
After two hours of searching, the family was dehydrated, exhausted, and done in. 

			
Mickey, being the boldest in the search party, got up the gumption to stop walking and face her mother. “She’s gone, Mama. We can’t risk the lives of the other children to save just one,” she said in Sicilian. 

			
Maria looked into Mickey’s eyes, and at first Mickey thought, by some miracle, she’d gotten through to her mother. Instead, Maria slapped Mickey’s face so hard, she knocked her to the ground. 

			
“No! Tu sì na soru orribbili. Circamu finu a quannu nun truvamu lu picciridda!”—You are a horrible sister. We will search until we find the baby. 

			
But the sun was starting to set, and if they didn’t trace their steps back very soon, the woods would turn pitch black, and they wouldn’t be able to find their way home. They could perish like Firenze had—in the jaws of animals. But Maria trekked on. The sneering words of the midwife repeating over and over in her head, “Babies die, babies die, babies die….” 

			
Finally, exhausted, and without Maria’s permission, Mickey took it upon herself (and knowing she’d be in big trouble with her mother) to round up the other kids. “If we don’t go now, we won’t make it back home,” she told them out of Maria’s earshot. 

			
Maria was desperate and scared that she would fail again and lose yet another baby. She had failed at everything she’d tried in this terrible, New World. Now her husband—the man she once loved—was probably dead, and her precious, magical baby daughter had been taken by an animal. It was over. Firenze was gone. She knew it in her heart. 

			
Eventually, she became aware of the other children crying in the distance, and their cries were getting further and further away. The sounds of her other children retreating was like a smack upside Maria’s head, and it knocked her back down to earth—or maybe it was down to hell. 

			
She knew Mickey had been the one talking sense. The remaining kids were in danger, and she wasn’t even trying to protect them.

			
Meantime, the sun was setting, and it had brought the forest back to life. Growls and howls and screeches rang out from above, behind, in front, and all around, which made Maria even crazier and more frantic. 

			
Not far off, she heard a battle erupting between a mountain lion and—what?—she didn’t know. She had to get to the remaining children. She was exhausted and dehydrated, but she kept heading toward the clearing where she prayed she’d find them. 

			
But the kids were deep in the woods and scared as hell that they were lost. As they trudged on in the darkening forest, the shadow of a huge grizzly appeared on the next rise, not one hundred feet ahead of them. 

			
If they thought they knew what fear tasted like before, it was nothing compared to the terror that now crashed over them like a tidal wave. They were alone. Their father was almost certainly dead, their mother was lost in the forest looking for their baby sister, and they had no protection—not from the giant beast, tall and terrifying. 

			
They’d been taught by their father that, when confronted by a bear, the best thing to do was huddle together, keep very quiet, and wave their arms very slowly to make themselves look bigger. He had made them practice over and over in front of their cabin. It had brought on gales of laughter then. Not now. 

			
Angelina and Mickey grabbed the kids around themselves and they all waved their arms, trying really hard to keep their cries low so maybe the bear wouldn’t hear their fear. Like he couldn’t smell it. Like he couldn’t sense it. Like he wouldn’t know it. But Mickey knew he wouldn’t smell it on her. She was fearless and had a real animal sense, which is why she was the best hunter in the family.

			
The huge bear came closer, his eyes illuminated by the rising moon, and reared up on his haunches. Little Austin began to sob louder, and so did Helena, despite Angelina trying to hush them without success. 

			
The grizzly looked at these strange, furless beings, slowly waving their arms, some of them whimpering. Were these creatures a danger or not? Suddenly, the sharp smell of urine was on the wind, and the unfamiliar sound of a child’s wails pierced the night.

			
Austin, an acorn calf if ever there was one—the brother who’d always been prone to the fits—suddenly fell to the ground, shaking and moaning, his eyes rolling back in his head as he foamed at the mouth. 

			
Mickey, young as she was, forgot the danger lurking so close by, dropped to the ground, and did what she had seen her mother do many times. She felt around for a stick and forced it into Austin’s mouth to keep him from swallowing his tongue. But he was fitting something fierce. 

			
The others kept standing and waving their arms, hoping that somehow the damned bear would figure out that he was supposed to be afraid of them. 

			
Just then, Maria caught up close enough to set sight on the kids. She crept quietly, calling upon the Sicilian martyr, St. Guido, who was known to protect against animal attacks as she inched towards the kids. The huge animal lifted its head, sniffed again, let out a fierce and terrifying growl, and then, like her prayers had been answered, quickly turned tail and ran back into the forest. They could only figure that the bear smelled the sickness on Austin, knew something was bad and wrong with these creatures, and that they wouldn’t make for good eating. 

			
When Austin came to, not knowing what had just happened, Maria lifted him in her arms, and the little band quietly attempted to feel their way back through the dark, holding onto branches and tree trunks to keep from collapsing from exhaustion. 

			
Mickey tripped on a downed branch and fell into a sticker bush. Her head landed on something soft, wet, and squishy, making her cry out. At first, no one paid attention because they’d all been crying on and off for most of the trek anyway. But this cry was different. 

			
Mickey picked the wet thing up, and it smelled something awful. “Aspetta! Aspetta! È lu pannu!”—Wait! Wait! It’s the diaper! 

			
Maria took it from her and said, “Va tutto bambini. Andiamo avanti.”—It’s OK kids. Go on. She kept them moving towards what she hoped was the cabin. She would save her tears for when the children were safely asleep.

			
How she hated this America. This Colorado. She vowed that if Jesus saved what was left of her family this night, she would be a faithful, prayerful woman and do her best to keep the rest of her family safe from harm. 

			
As they trekked on in the light of the now risen moon, they came to the spot where Mariano had been left with Peter and Callie, but there was no sign of them. They’d been told to stay with their father until he died. Was this the wrong spot? If so, she and the kids were headed in the wrong direction. 

			
“Mama!” Laura called out. “La scarpa di papà!”—Mariano’s shoe. This was the right place, but the three were gone. Even if Mariano had lived, he couldn’t have walked home, especially without a shoe, and the twins couldn’t possibly have carried a grown man. 

			
What the hell? 

			
The blood from Mariano’s head was there—Maria felt it with her fingers—but the blood trail stopped or was invisible in the darkness. There was no disturbance in the area, so it didn’t look like they’d been attacked by animals, drunken trappers, or any Apache scalpers that might be roaming the area. 

			
Maybe Peter and Callie had somehow dragged their papa’s body home instead of leaving it for the vultures? 

			
If so, Maria figured she’d bury the bastard tomorrow, then get on with the business of mourning, figuring out how to raise her children, and keeping them from starving or being killed like Firenze. 

			
By the time they got to a spot where they could get a glimpse of the cabin in the distance, they wanted to scream with joy, especially because they saw a candle burning inside. 

			
They ran home with what little strength they had left, but Maria wouldn’t let them go inside. There was no way of knowing if it was the children inside or a stranger. She carefully opened the door. “Pietrantonio! Calandra!” she called. The two kids emerged from the darkness and ran into their mother’s arms. 

			
“Chi facìsti cû corpu di to patri?”—What did you do with your father’s body?—she asked.

			
They pointed to the bed. 

			
There lay Mariano Barbera, aka Marian Barbarian, his bloody head wrapped in rags. He was in bad shape. He wasn’t conscious, but he was somehow still breathing. His tremendous strength, which had once captured her heart, now just held her captive. 

			
She wished they’d just left him out there to die, but he was their father after all, and as such, he still had to be respected…whether he deserved it or not. 

			
He had tried to kill her baby but failed. Instead, he’d left the infant for the wolves. Now it was his turn to suffer. Would he live? Would he die a slow, agonizing death? Did she care? 

			
She didn’t tend to him but instead told Peter to bring in more firewood and asked Callie to fill two pails with water from the stream. Not for Mariano, but so she could feed the children. 

			
They had already lit the fire, so she filled a pot with water, threw some wild dandelions and mushrooms that had, thank God, come up in this early spring. She took two squirrels Mariano had killed that she had skinned, cleaned, and soaked in salted water for two days, and put them to the fire. 

			
She didn’t ask the kids how or why they had dragged their father home. 

			
When the food was cooked enough to eat, they sat down on the floor. Maria led the prayers, asking Jesus to make Firenze’s trip to heaven an easy one and for her baby to rest in His arms for eternity. 

			
Just then, she saw Firenze’s spirit jumping in the shadows of the fire. They all did. 

			
She told them that little Firenze was “talking” to them from heaven and that they shouldn’t be afraid. She told them it was Jesus showing her to them, so they knew Firenze was safe in his arms. 

			
Little Helena asked, “Mama, is Firenze playing in heaven with other dead babies?” 

			
Peter said, “Stop it! She ain’t dead, and I will never say she’s dead.” 

			
Callie jumped in, “No? Then why’s her spirit jumping outta the fire? Answer me that!” 

			
Before a real fight broke out, Maria put her hands together, told the children to do the same, and led them in a hymn to the Virgin, who understood a mother’s anguish better than any woman. 

			
She made no prayer or hymn for Mariano. 

			
Minutes after they’d filled their bellies, the children fell into a sad sleep on the floor. 

			
It was only then that Maria wrapped a quilt around herself, took a long swallow of what was left in the bottom of Mariano’s sugar moon jug, and cried until she could no longer feel the pain. 

			
She woke up before the sun, checked on her filthy little ones, and also on Mariano. He wasn’t dead yet. Then, she grabbed the six-shooter and went outside to fetch some fresh water. 

			
She walked down to the stream, about two hundred yards from the cabin. She dipped the bucket into the freezing water and heard a growl. She put her hand up to her eyes to block the rising sun so she could get a better look. What now? How much more could she take? 

			
On the other side of the stream, not forty feet away, stood a wolf. That wolf. The Alpha Grey with her God-awful blue eyes. She could tell it had given birth recently because her belly had been plucked of hair, and her teats were exposed. Besides which, it was spring, and she was the alpha female. But an animal mother wouldn’t leave newborn pups behind in a den, would she? 

			
The grey looked at Maria and howled as though she was mocking her. Had she come for another one of her children? Had she come to kill Maria too? Maria picked up the gun and fired. 

			
She missed, and the wolf took off. The she-wolf got far enough away to not get clipped by a bullet and planted herself in one spot—to stare Maria down. Maria was about to give chase to get a better shot when she heard a sound coming from the tall grass. It sounded like a wounded kitten. Or maybe a wolf pup. She didn’t know much about wolves, but she knew this wolf had wanted her human child and had taken her. If the wolf had abandoned a pup—maybe it was wounded or disfigured—Maria would kill it like the wolf had killed her baby. 

			
The she-wolf appeared again—but now on Maria’s side of the stream. She looked towards the weeds, then back at Maria before turning and running back into the woods, vanishing like a spirit. 

			
Maria carefully tiptoed toward the sound. If it was the bitch’s pup, she’d finish it off and cook it. She’d heard that’s what the Indians did to take on the spirit of an animal, and, hell, those folks had survived this terrible place for God knows how many thousands of years. She no longer thought of small creatures as pets like she had as a girl, but as food. She was a mother with children to feed. 

			
She crept the last few feet, fully expecting to find a wounded animal. 

			
Instead, she found Firenze. 

			
Was that milk on her lips? 

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

A REGALO PRESS BOOK

			
ISBN: 979-8-89565-343-2

			
ISBN (eBook): 979-8-89565-344-9

			
 

			
The Descendant

			
© 2026 by Linda Stasi

			
All Rights Reserved

			
 

			
Cover Design by Jim Villaflores

			
 

			
Publishing Team:

			
Founder and Publisher – Gretchen Young

			
Editor – Adriana Senior

			
Managing Editor – Caitlin Burdette

			
Production Manager – Morgan Simpson

			
Production Editor – Rachel Paul

			
 

			
This is a work of fiction but one that is based on actual events. Names have been changed in some instances, and the stories herein are taken from family lore and tales—both long and short. Anecdotes have been expanded upon and in the context of fiction, much of it comes from my own imaginings including how events and conversations might have unfolded. 

			
 

			
As part of the mission of Regalo Press, a donation is being made to Civil Rights Foundation NYC, as chosen by the author. Find out more about this organization at https://donorbox.org/civil-rights-foundation-giving.

			
 

			
This book, as well as any other Regalo Press publications, may be purchased in bulk quantities at a special discounted rate. Contact orders@regalopress.com for more information.

			
 

			
No part of this book may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted by any means without the written permission of the author and publisher.

			
 

			
  

			
 

			
Regalo Press

			
New York • Nashville

			
regalopress.com

			
 

			
Published in the United States of America

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 15 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 15 –

			
Big Boot 

			
Wet Mountains, Colorado

			
1916–1919 

			
No, Mariano didn’t die from smacking his head, gashing his shins wide open, or breaking a few ribs in the forest that day. Nor did he die from the near-deadly infection that swept over him hot and fast as a brush fire. 

			
Maria’s fears aside, Firenze didn’t die either—neither from being eaten by the wolf or another wild beast, nor from exposure after having been on the cold mountain for more than eighteen hours. Hell, she didn’t even have a touch of frostbite. 

			
But another question remained: How did Mariano get back to the cabin that night? The truth, she later found out, was that when the twins went to retrieve his body, he was somehow still alive, so they rolled him onto a sort-of sled they’d made from Callie’s petticoat and Peter’s shirt. They dragged him home, got him inside, and then waited for him to die. 

			
By the next night, Mariano was delirious, and his forehead felt as hot as the lowest rung of hell. 

			
The younger kids got to crying like nobody’s business. They were more scared than sad he might die. They were afraid they’d starve to death without him. When Maria could tell he wasn’t going kick the bucket anytime soon and would probably linger around for God knew how long, she made a decision: She’d treat the wounds rather than allow him to die the agonizing death he deserved. She did it for the kids; they had been through enough without having to live with the stench of slow death. Besides that, she worried the Lord would deem it murder if she just let him die.

			
So, she set out some watered bread she’d made from the sack of flour Gaetano had brought them up from the company store. She kept the poultice in a warm, dark place, and in a few days, it looked more green than white. 

			
She put chunks of the moldy bread on top of Mariano’s infected wounds, tied them on with clean rags, recited not very fervent prayers to Santa Maria Francesca of the Five Wounds each morning, and waited to see if he would die or somehow manage to live. Well, that ole sumnabitch, he lived. 

			
After two weeks or so, when the moldy bread and the prayers had done their work and Mariano was well enough to get outside with help, he immediately started criticizing their work, saying the sugar beets weren’t planted right. He refused to admit anything could go right without him. He didn’t even thank the kids for dragging his ass all the way home or Maria for saving his life. 

			
It took all of Maria’s willpower to keep from picking up the six-shooter and letting him have it between the eyes. 

			
About the beets, he was, of course, wrong as sin on Sunday. Those plants took to the rich Colorado earth like, well, like prayers on Sunday. Damn! The soil near the stream was so fertile and untouched since the day of creation, you could stick a shoe in the ground, and it would grow a boot! 

			
Like the plants, Firenze grew healthier, heartier, and heftier—even better, in fact, than she’d been before her night in the woods. The other kids always kept the story to themselves, even as they got older because the idea of Firenze crawling that distance when she was four-months-old was even crazier than what had happened on the night she was born. The night of the wolf. They knew if word got out, she’d be marked “strega.”

			
***

			
In the three years since Firenze had gone missing and was somehow returned to them, Mariano had not only fully recovered, he had become a fulltime bootlegger, introducing himself to strangers as Mario Barbera. (“Mario” and “Barbera” were the only names the law didn’t have on wanted posters or in their files). Besides, he thought chopping off the “La” as they had done at Ellis Island sounded more ’Merigaan, and although he liked “Barbarian,” it just had to go. But from then on, “Barbera” would be the family name.

			
Mariano the tough guy liked to brag that he was too mean to die, and he said it like it was a good thing. Maybe it wasn’t a good thing, but it sure as hell was a true thing—maybe the truest thing he ever said. 

			
He liked to show off his wolf bite scars. They added to his reputation. Even those who called him “friend” said he was cold enough to steal a coin off a dead man’s eyes. He was alive but dead inside.

			
While he might have become mean, he wasn’t dumb by any means, and he had been right as rain about booze: By 1917, bootlegging was very big business in Colorado, and it was about to get much bigger. Nationwide Prohibition wasn’t declared until 1920, giving these Siggie moonshiners four long years to perfect their craft. 

			
A year and a half after prohibition had been declared in Colorado, the US entered World War I. Every miner who was an American citizen or any immigrant male who had even applied for citizenship could—and would—be conscripted to fight in the war. 

			
The funny part is that the Sicilians who didn’t apply for citizenship (because all they wanted to do was go back to Sicily after finding out the “land of the free” was really the land of indentured servitude) could not even get drafted to fight in that rich man’s war. Even when Italy joined up with the allies, there was no way they’d risk their lives—again—to help the ’Merigaan oppressors. 

			
These men couldn’t be called up to fuel the rich man’s war (they were considered non-declarant aliens), or even help them get richer with the coal and steel needed for the war effort. For the first time since stepping foot on American soil, the Barbera family had caught a break—via bootleg. Better still, thanks to prohibition in Colorado, Sicilian workers who made moonshine were able to quit the mines and pay off their padroni by joining with the only armies they cared about—the armies of moonshining Italian families. And these men were joining the families in such numbers that the US Army could have learned a trick to two about recruitment and loyalty from them. 

			
That was such a kick-in-Rocky’s-ass, it was like getting a Christmas bonus every day of the year. 

			
The men who left the mines took with them the guns that the union had given out during the strike, so they came fully loaded to Mariano’s and the other families’ bootleg enterprises. 

			
It wasn’t a smooth ride though, make no mistake. Mariano had personally killed and ordered hits on more than a few Sicilians who tried to muscle in on his boot. And he’d kill more if he had to, and he’d do it without flinching. That’s why he loved the Sicilian saying, U santu di marmuru nun suda—A marble saint doesn’t sweat. 

			
No matter what or who got in his way, Mariano forged ahead, believing only that might make it right.

			
His only regret was that his oldest boy, Giuseppe, was not there to see what he’d accomplished. The family had accepted the fact that Giuseppe, who had signed on to the cattle drive back in 1915, was never going to return. It was the way of the West—brutal and deadly. Mariano, though, never wrote him off as dead.

			
And he was right. One day in 1919, Giuseppe, riding a dapple-grey stallion, returned like a ghost from the past.

			
He had left as a skinny, half-starved, wiry boy, but came back a muscled and mighty strong man. He’d been driving cattle for all those years and had made friends of men who were White, Black, Mexican, Greek, Chinese, Comanche, Ute, and yeah, even Italians from Calabria, Bergamo, and Roma. In other words, he was no longer the unshucked boy who had left almost four years before. 

			
He’d grown way up and now called himself Joe. 

			
He had a stained, ten-gallon hat on his head, spurs on his boots, and cash in his pocket. He could speak some Spanish, dance an Irish jig, and play the guitar. God knows what else he learned on the range. 

			
He had expected—with good reason—to return as the savior of the family, so he was shocked to find out from one of Mariano’s spies back at the mine that the family was living on a decent-size plot of land a few miles north of Pueblo. When he left, they’d all been hiding out in a shack in the wilderness on the mountain. What the hell? It took him more than a week to even find them. 

			
He saw his father first—out in a field inspecting a crop of—what?—he didn’t know. But he was out there bold as brass. Giuseppe jumped from his horse, ran to his father, and hugged him like there was no tomorrow. Mariano was so overcome that he hugged him back and wouldn’t let go—a rare sign of affection from the grizzled bastard. They had all given the boy up for dead—but he hadn’t. 

			
Giuseppe was confused as hell. Here was his father, working the land like a free man. Wasn’t he a wanted man with a price on his head? 

			
Sure, Mariano told him, but the law had their hands so full with all the Sicilian gunslinger-bootleggers warring out in the open—right in the streets—that they seemed to have forgotten about him. He let out a hardy laugh when he told his son about one bounty hunter who had come looking for him. He said he’d shot that bounty man full of more lead than a butcher’s pencil and then hauled his body up the mountain for the animals to feast on. 

			
Well, he added, the bounty hunter hadn’t exactly been a corpse when he left him up there because he wasn’t all the way dead. Didn’t matter. Nobody’d ever find what was left of him anyway. 

			
He didn’t wait for Giuseppe to ask, because Mariano was thrilled to tell him about his new enterprise. It was so successful, he said, that he’d been able to even buy the piece of land they were standing on—legitimately! 

			
Those crazy ruminations he’d had back on January 1, 1916, about becoming a big man and how one day Maria would be able to go into town to buy bolts of cloth, some provisions, and even that giant provolone hanging in the window of the local Italian shop were becoming truer by the minute. 

			
What the mean ole bastard would never tell Joe, though, was that if it weren’t for Maria, his business would never have succeeded the way it did. She was the brains; he was the muscle. She was the one who’d come up with the idea of putting the land in her name, seeing as how he was a wanted man and all.

			
Of course, she got none of the credit—just the blame whenever things went wrong. But since she was smarter than him, she kept all the bad times in her head the way a bookkeeper keeps books: red and black.

			
He had made enough, he said, with that first illegal batch of Sugar Moon, that he bought these few acres, built a small house and a corral. Then he bought a herd of goats and two pigs.

			
“Joe” was so shocked by this unlikely turn of events he was practically speechless—not that he was a big talker to begin with. 

			
Joe said he’d heard about this new no-liquor law in Colorado, but after bringing another herd to the slaughterhouses on his way back, he didn’t stop at a saloon to find out. He just wanted to get home. He thought he was going to save his family with the money he’d made. Well, they sure as shootin’ didn’t need it anymore. But Mariano took it anyway. Enough was never enough for him. 

			
Joe told of how the men on the cattle drive all had their own hooch, so they figured what they’d heard about booze being against the law in Colorado was just another rumor. 

			
“No rumor,” Mariano laughed, putting his arm around his son. 

			
Wine, and especially bootleg moonshine, he said, had become more valuable than coal. Or gold. “And you don’t have to dig for it—just maybe die for it.” 

			
But it was the best thing that had happened to Sicilians since coming to this country. He showed Joe the stills and his stash of weapons—which included machine guns like the ones that had been mounted on top of “The Death Special.” He showed him the sugar beets and told him they mixed 120 pounds of sugar with the local spring water and yeast to make the “Sugar Moon.” He said his “company” also made wine, which he sold at a big profit with grapes he imported. From where he didn’t say. 

			
Before even letting his mother, brothers, and sisters lay eyes on Joe, Mariano introduced him to some of his “soldiers.” These men patrolled at the edges of his land, toting machine guns. He said these fellas were their family now. Their Società Onorata family. The Society of Honor. 

			
“La me quali famigghia??”—My what family?—Joe asked. 

			
Mariano didn’t answer except to say there was a new order. He said he wasn’t the only one who’d figured out how to turn a profit by turning sugar beets into moonshine. Other families were also in the moonshine business and out of the Goddamned mines. 

			
These Italian immigrant moonshiners, though, he warned, had got to brewing up more than just booze. As fast as their stills were built, they got to springing their paisani from the mines and arming them up. These men went from working underground to working in the underworld. 

			
He explained that the Barberas—without the “La”—were their own bootlegging family, and Joe would have to learn who the other families were because some were allies and some were upstart rivals. It never crossed his mind that his son would want a different life from his. 

			
The Lombardos, the Marinos, and the Amatos were the upstarts, he said. 

			
The La Donas, whom they knew from Lucca Sicula, and the Carlinos, who were blood relatives of Maria’s, were Barbera allies. He then said, “We are together like Mafia.” 

			
Joe would later learn what that meant, exactly…and the tragedy it would bring. But right then, all Joe said was, “Mama Mia!” He could hardly believe what he was hearing. 

			
A bigger problem than the law, Mariano explained, was the deadly feud going on between the La Donas and the Carlinos, but he added, “Noi di Barbera arristamu niutrali, propriu comu ‘n Italia quannu accuminciò la guerra!”—We Barberas remain neutral, just like Italy was when the war began. 

			
Joe couldn’t figure out what this all meant and why his father was calling the family, “Barbera,” and not their actual name, La Barbera, but knew it was better not to ask, and better still not to ask how in the hell they were supposed to stay neutral in what amounted to a range war, not over land, but over booze.

			
Joe learned who their customers were that day too: the miners, the bosses, and yes, even the governor who’d passed the law banning booze in the first place. Everybody wanted booze—more now than before it was banned. Mariano charged the big bugs twice what he charged the miners and regular folks. That, he said, was the honorable thing to do.

			
“Botta ri sali.” Mariano laughed bitterly, turning the expression about miners bumping their heads against salt mine walls against the coal mine bosses. Now the bosses were the ones pounding their heads against the walls, he said, because they were dependent on their former wop/dago/Guinea slaves for what they wanted and couldn’t get legally: booze. 

			
Mariano told Joe that as the oldest son, he would learn the business and become his number one man. Joe’s head was spinning. 

			
Mariano figured by the next year he might make enough money to buy more property and get himself a herd of cattle. Joe explained to his father that to keep a herd, you had to have horses and cowhands. 

			
“OK! I will be a big American cowboy,” Mariano declared in his newly acquired broken English. 

			
Joe had to tread through the next part as carefully as walking on new eggs, explaining to his bad-tempered papa that he should never use the word, “cowboy” about himself—especially around white ranchers. Or even bootlegging, amateur ranchers, he thought.

			
Furious that his son knew something he didn’t, he grabbed Joe’s shirt and demanded, “Perchè no?”—Why not?

			
Joe, now an actual, real-life American cowpoke, explained to him that he, Mariano, would be a “cowboss” not a “cowboy,” because a “cowboy,” was the nasty slang that the white men used for colored cowpokes and ranch hands. 

			
White ranch owners considered the Black ranch hands not men but boys, he explained, even though one in four cowhands—a full twenty-five percent—were Black men. Mariano didn’t believe it at first, but Joe said, “I believe it to be a true fact.” Whatever it was, Mariano took it as God’s truth. 

			
Joe said when his father learned this, it made him mad enough to swallow a horn-toad backwards. He saw his father’s fury boil to the surface and instinctively ducked. 

			
But Mariano wasn’t mad at Joe, and he wasn’t mad because he might have been compared to Negroes. Just the opposite. 

			
Mariano slammed his right fist into his left hand and declared in his best broken English: “Then I will call myself ‘cowboy’ because Rockefeller and the white men call us Italians same name as they call Black men anyway.” Then he added for good measure, “Vaffanculu Rockefeller! Vaffanculu the mines! Vaffanculu all rich, white ’Merigaans.”—Fuck them all.

			
From that moment on, to all his men, and later to any new ranch hands—no matter the color—Mariano Barbera was only called, “Signor Cowboy.” 

			
His fury cooled as quickly as it had started, and he went right back to bragging about his achievements. But before Mariano would allow his son to go find his mother, brothers, and sisters—who Joe missed like life itself—he gave him one last warning.

			
“I have what they call a ‘left-hand wife,’ in town,” he said. “And if you ever run into her or if your mama ever asks about her, you keep your mouth shut, or I swear I’ll kill you.” 

			
Well, that didn’t take long, Joe thought. Was that just his father’s way of saying he better keep his trap shut, or did he really mean he’d pump him full of lead? Joe didn’t know. 

			
What he did know was that, for Mariano anyway, America really was the land of opportunity—if a man was smart enough and tough enough to find those opportunities. And if he had to kill for those opportunities, well, that was just the way it was. 

			
Isn’t that what men like Rockefeller had always done, Mariano asked his son. Kill to get what they wanted? The only difference between Rockefeller and Barbera, he said, was the color of their skin, the country they came from, and the accent that came outta their mouths. He said that joke always got a big laugh from the regulars down at Mrs. Bianchi’s. Some of those regulars even worked for him now. 

			
Joe got it right off that his papa had become even meaner, ornerier, and more dangerous than he’d been, even during the strike. The strike had been about all the men. This new business was all about Mariano Barbera. He was the big bug now. 

			
Making people fear him was his way of dealing with others. It was how he’d dealt with his family, and now it was how he dealt with rivals in these mean mountains of moonshine and machine guns. Thing of it is? Mariano was a man without a conscience, and that in itself could scare the shit out of anybody with a brain. He stunk of mean, and the badness clung to him like slime on a slug. 

			
Mariano, it was clear, had no fear. None. Except for one little thing he didn’t talk about. And she scared him shitless. 

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 16 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 16 –

			
Season of the Witch 

			
Pueblo, Colorado 

			
1919 

			
Yeah, he had tried to kill that baby, but she lived. Instead, he was the one who almost died. He knew as well as he knew the fingers on his own hand, that the wild child was definitely una mavara. He also knew that any shot he had of bending her to his will to do his bidding against his enemies was over. 

			
He knew that she knew what he had tried to do to her. He also learned that the day of the wolf attack, Firenze would have killed him first if she could have. Of course, she couldn’t. Yet. She still needed help.

			
Maria knew it too. They all kinda knew it, but nobody said it out loud or even whispered it to one another. This badness between the baby and Papa wasn’t done. 

			
And as soon as baby Firenze (who they all now called Flo) added words to her mad howling, she named the wolf—her wolf—“Blue.” Her siblings first thought the wolf was a demon, what with the blue eyes and all, but Flo knew different. Blue was her guardian angel in the cruel world she’d been born into. 

			
So, when Mariano and Joe walked in the door that day, Mariano was glad to see there was no sign of little Flo. Maria near-fainted at the sight of her son, and Joe near-fainted at the sight of their nicely appointed cabin. She reached up high to grab her tall son’s face and kiss it all over. “Peppineddu!” she cried using the Sicilian nickname for “Giuseppe.” The other kids, some nearly grown, stopped their racket, and stared, stock still. 

			
Who was this man? 

			
Peter and Callie though, recognized their older brother right off and almost knocked Maria out of the way rushing to hug him. Then Helena (who now called herself Helen) as well as Angelina, Clara, and Austin, realizing this was their brother, joined in the hugging. 

			
“And who’s that fella there?” Joe asked of the kid who remained standing in the corner wearing banged-up boots, a wide-brimmed hat, and work clothes that had seen some hard riding. Mariano snorted, but Maria put her arm around the nearly fourteen-year-old. When Joe got a close-up look, he found out that him was a her. 

			
“Dici salutu a to frati, amuri meu,”—Say hello to your brother, my love—Maria told Mickey.

			
Mickey stuck out her hand to shake his. “I’m Mickey. I ’member you. You went offin’ the cattle drive, and we thought you was dead. You ain’t skinny no more, and now you got skin like Silas. Do you remember me?” 

			
Joe nodded but didn’t bother to ask who Silas was because he was too busy trying to figure out the whole thing. 

			
He was worldly enough now to know that a girl could be a boy. Why, the cattle drivers loved to tell the tale of One-Eye Charley Parkhurst, back in the last century. Ole Charley, he was the greatest, bravest, toughest stagecoach driver who ever lived. But Charley was a lady who decided to be a man. 

			
But the surprises just kept on coming. If that wasn’t one too many shockaroos—and it was—he then heard a weird howl coming from the front steps. Then another. 

			
But dang! No one inside was paying any attention to the howls right outside. He looked around wild-eyed and put his hand on his gun pocket. Since the cabin door had been left open, he quickly went to shut it, but before he could, he saw a little child on the grass holding onto the fur of a big wolf.

			
Fearing the wolf would kill the child, Joe immediately drew his pistol, but quick as lightening, Maria grabbed the gun out of his hand. 

			
“No! Peppineddu! Lassalu stari. Chiḍḍu è lu cani di Firenze!”—Leave it alone. That’s Firenze’s dog. Then, the tot and the beast proceeded to climb the front steps and come inside, where they plopped down on the floor like they belonged. 

			
What the hell is happening here? 

			
That a girl could be a boy, well, that was possible, but that a baby could have a wolf as a pet? No. Not possible. 

			
He’d been gone not quite four years, he figured. How could there be a planted plot of land, a nice house, farm animals, a bootlegging business, ranch hands, a sister/brother, and a baby with a blue-eyed pet wolf that his mother called a dog? No, not possible. 

			
He turned to the family for an answer, but they didn’t seem to think anything was strange, so he turned back around for an answer from his father, but Mariano was gone. “Wait a cotton-pickin’ minute,” Joe said using an American phrase he’d learned on the trail. “Where did Papa go?” 

			
Mariano, as usual, had high-tailed it out the door faster’n a pronghorn antelope as soon as he saw the wolf. So much for Papa having no fear. Joe didn’t know it wasn’t the wolf that scared his father so much—it was the wolf’s little companion. Even so, he was shocked at his father’s cowardice. 

			
As Joe took his hat off and scratched his head, little Flo stood up and scooted over to Joe and hugged his legs like she knew who he was. He scooped her up in his arms, keeping his eyes trained on the wolf. He wasn’t buying any of it. Yet. 

			
“Blooo,” Flo cried out happily, pointing to her “dog” laying on the floor. “Blooo! She Blooo!” she giggled over and over. 

			
And anyway, who was this kid? Was she a new sister, he asked in Sicilian. 

			
When he left, he didn’t know his mother was pregnant, though she seemed to be pregnant all the time. 

			
Callie laughed and explained the little girl had been born on New Year’s Eve 1916, at midnight, and she was one of his new baby sisters. “She’s Firenze but we call her Flo, like an American,” she said in perfect English. “Clara’s asleep in the cradle.”

			
She said the wolf had sort of adopted Flo, and that the little girl named her Blue because of the animal’s blue eyes. How a toddler knew the color blue to begin with was anybody’s guess.

			
Joe told Callie to take a breath and start over and slow it down. He was trying to get it all straight in his head—which, by the way, he never did. He’d seen some crazy things on the trail and had even smoked a pipe with the company’s Comanche scout which gave him weird dreams while he was awake—but nothing beat this for strange. 

			
“Blue has stayed close to Flo from the night of her birth,” his sister Helen added. “After a while, we all got so used to the big wolf being around that we didn’t fear her no more.” 

			
But Mariano? He was a whole different story. Nobody had the gumption to tell Joe that their papa was afraid to kill the wolf because he was more afraid of what baby Flo would do to get revenge than he was of the savage beast in their midst. So, Papa tried to stay out of their way. Mariano had even made Maria nurse Flo outside. Once she got big enough, he made her take her meals outside or all alone by the hearth during storms. 

			
By the age of three, Flo didn’t want to be separated from her brothers and sisters anymore, and she sure didn’t want to eat outside. Crying didn’t change things, so one night when the family sat at the table and she was put outside, she started to howl. Loud. This made her nasty ol’ papa so angry that he went outside with a board. He’d had it. Scared or no, he was going to end this once and for all. “Vaffanculu a mavara! Vaffanculu a lupa!”—Fuck the witch! Fuck the wolf! 

			
As she sat alone howling on the ground, her lips grew redder as her papa approached and raised the board. Without warning, Blue emerged from the woods and raced towards him. Mariano turned and high tailed it back inside. Both the child and the wolf howled until he slammed the door behind him. 

			
Maria ran out and saw no wolf—just her little one eating her pastina with her fingers. Maria grabbed her up, brought her inside, and did something she’d never done before. She put Flo at the table and told Mariano that, from now on, he could eat outside, or he could sit with the family and leave the child be. Maria, too, seemed to be gaining courage from the wolf. Or maybe from her own little daughter. 

			
She then said something to little Flo that she’d say again many times in the coming years. “Nobody is better than you. Nobody.”

			
Mariano started to get up to strike his wife when Firenze turned towards her papa and howled. Loud and scary. He swore she had also made the sign of il malocch’ at him because when he stood up, he peed all over himself. He believed this shame was caused by the wild child; she had for sure given him the evil eye. He even wanted to ask Maria to do the malocch’ test by putting water, salt, and olive oil in a bowl. Only older women could perform this test, and the reaction would tell her if he had the curse or not. But he didn’t trust his wife anymore. Maybe she would say he wasn’t cursed when he really was or say he was cursed when he wasn’t. 

			
One thing, though, he never challenged Firenze’s place in the Barbera pack again. He feared she’d hit him with the evil eye again and that the next time, he might even lose his strength. So, he saved the hitting and the punching for the others and only when little Flo was out playing in the far field and couldn’t see the beatings.

			
Everyone made excuses to Flo when she inquired about their “boo-boos.” They didn’t want to unleash Blue on Papa—no matter how hard he struck them. They could live with a broken nose or black eyes. If Mariano was dead, though, they would have no protection from the other bootlegging families who could kill their brothers, take their land and their stills. 

			
Flo had earned her place at the table, yes, but that didn’t mean that Mariano had to share a meal with her. He was afraid to look at her, at those lips he swore got even redder when he was near her, so he ordered Maria to serve him, Peter, and Joe before the rest. He refused to allow the youngest son, Austin, who had the fits, to sit with “the men.” Austin was made to eat with the women. The girls didn’t care because they loved little Austin and didn’t want him around Mariano anyway. 

			
As for Blue, she would disappear for long stretches but always came back to Flo when she wasn’t nursing pups. They played together in the field and seemed to have their own language. Flo’d even let her baby sister, Clara, a year younger, tag along. 

			
Firenze learned the way of the woods, and folks swore that Blue was as domesticated as a house dog when she was around the little girl at the homestead. 

			
A year later, Blue limped onto the Barbera’s porch and collapsed, bleeding. She’d been attacked—probably by a female in her own pack who wanted to take over as the alpha female. Blue had become too attached to this human girl to protect and defend her pack properly in those savage woods. 

			
She had become the thing wolves fear and dread most: an outcast, a lone wolf. 

			
Flo, nearly hysterical, dragged Maria outside and, throwing herself atop the wolf, begged her mother to save Blue. Maria and the boys carefully lifted the wolf and brought her into the tool shed. It was safe because Mariano rarely went in there now that he was a “cowboss” and didn’t have to repair fences or anything else himself. 

			
Maria tended to Blue as though she were one of her own human babies. She cleaned the wounds, applied moldy bread to them, and wrapped them in cotton rags while Firenze made her a bed of straw. Weeks went by, and Flo fed her bits of meat out of her hand and every few days Maria changed the dressing. Even so, it looked like the wolf might not make it, so Flo took to sleeping out in the shed with her until Blue began to improve. 

			
Her pet had gone from the brutally tough female mate of the alpha male in the pack to a wounded outcast. Flo promised her that now she’d have a new pack, even though it was a human one. 

			
They just had to keep Mariano from finding out Blue had become vulnerable and was living among them. 

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 17 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 17 –

			
Carried. Nation. 

			
Trinidad, Colorado 

			
1920 

			
On January 17, 1920, the Volstead Act went into effect, making alcohol illegal in the whole US of A. 

			
Crazy as it sounds, and after all the trouble the booze ban had caused in Colorado, the do-gooder ladies of the Temperance Movement had still convinced their lily-livered politician-husbands to pass the law. As Mariano had always known, these men had no interest in giving up liquor—just in getting their nagging wives to leave them alone. 

			
But these men also figured, and rightly so, that they’d still be able to get their booze and wine. It would just be harder to come by—unless you knew the right people, that is. And for the first time in their lives, the Barberas were the right people—even if it was for all the wrong reasons.

			
Although many called illegal booze “moonshine,” the term “bootleg” took hold because it’s what the cowpokes called the hooch they hid in their boots when they traded with the Indians. So, the meaning of “bootleg” went from hiding booze to hiding booze. 

			
What not one of them could have guessed though, was how wild not just the West would get but also how wild the whole country would get. All the government had to do for hell to break loose was to keep one single thing from folks: alcohol. It made everybody go crazy wanting it. 

			
Mariano had a saying: “Keep anything from a man, and he’ll want it even if he didn’t want it before.” The sweet beet and the grape had become the forbidden fruits of the modern age. He just couldn’t understand how these Bible-thumpers didn’t liken this to Genesis. 

			
To imbibe of the forbidden fruits, the husbands of the do-gooder ladies started frequenting what they called “speakeasies,” where the booze was bad and the ladies badder. And lots of it was made and supplied by the likes of the Sicilian Colorado gangs. Mariano had been right way back when he declared that to live men needed cooch and hooch. 

			
Now that all bets were off, the stiffs in their tuxedos kicked up their heels every chance they got even though they were scared to death the law would catch them, the gangsters would ban them, or their wives would kill them if they ever found out. 

			
If things were good for Mariano and his “enterprise” when Colorado had gone dry, it got so much better—and a helluva lot more dangerous—when the whole damned country dried out. Shootouts became as common in Las Animas County as bocce. 

			
In fact, prohibition had been such a good thing for Mariano he actually—briefly—considered going to church one Sunday to thank Maria’s God for his good luck. Then he went to Mrs. Bianchi’s on Saturday night, got stinking drunk, went upstairs with his left-hand wife, Cora-Lee Jones, and had a time of it before passing out until way past church-going time the next morning. 

			
With the whole damned country begging for alcohol, the demand became too much for small operators like Mariano to handle. He was, so to speak, small grapes compared to some of his paisani bootleggers. 

			
A few families had bought trucks and were distributing booze to Chicago and New York City. Yeah, the so-called Sugar Moon Wars between the rival Sicilian families in Colorado was heating up to boiling. 

			
The time had come for the Barberas to choose sides—they needed the protection of a bigger “family,” or they risked being taken out by one of them. The La Donas and the Carlinos were going national, making deals with the newly formed mobs in Chicago, New York, Kansas City, and New Orleans. Each family had relatives in every city. Joe and Peter, who were now grown up, had a talk with Mariano. “We gotta choose a side,” Joe said. “We don’t have enough ’moon to distribute to the big cities.” 

			
“We risk everything if we’re alone,” Peter added. “It’s time to choose or lose.” 

			
“Carlino is family,” Joe said. “What with Mama’s sister, Zia Cologera married to Ziu Vito. I feel that we are safer with them.” That side of the Carlinos had come to Colorado but lived a distance away. They saw each other occasionally, more so now that they were both in the business. The Carlinos were smart and had become serious, big-time bootleggers.

			
“They are sly foxes those Carlinos,” Mariano snapped. “I wouldn’t trust them—unless we have something to offer.” 

			
What they had to offer was a thriving business, loyal workers, loyal customers, and a ranch through which to launder money. 

			
Because blood is thicker than water, even if the blood connection was through Maria’s side, they finally settled on siding with the Carlinos. 

			
Although he would never admit it to anybody, Mariano had to first approach Sam Carlino, and then if Sam was agreeable, he’d move onto the big cheese, his father, Don Vito Carlino. A deal was struck, and the Barbera’s family enterprise became part of the Carlinos’ growing national operation. 

			
Don Vito would never break his word, but to make sure the Carlino brothers—Sam, Pete, and Carlo—kept their end of the deal, Mariano made a double blood pact: His not-even seventeen-year-old daughter, Callie, would be betrothed to her twenty-one-year-old cousin, Carlo, who was called “Charlie.” Mariano had really wanted to give Charlie his thirteen-year-old daughter, Laura, with the black eyes, big dimples, beautiful face, curly brown hair, and grown-woman’s figure. That would have been a good deal for the Carlinos. 

			
But Maria threatened to have little Flo sic Blue on him if he offered up young Laura, so he backed off. Maria had learned that brains, a magical child, and a wolf on your side were great levelers against a fists-first spouse. 

			
Callie was the girl Maria worried about the most anyway. She was seventeen and not what you’d exactly call marriage material. 

			
The business deal they made was Callie’s dowry: The Carlinos got partial control of Mariano’s business with half the profits going back to the Barberas. The embroidered linens Callie had made with Maria just as Maria’s mother had made with her, were just a little extra that nobody but Callie cared about. 

			
Charlie Carlino, was what they called a “dandy.” He liked his booze, he liked his poker, he liked the ladies, and he liked to take baths. He went around sporting cowpoke duds that you would never see on other stockmen or gunslingers. You’d likely see him riding into town looking like a real buscadero wearing white fur chaps made from sheep or goat or some Goddamned hide, and below that, carved leather boots with honest-to-God silver spurs. He always had his long gun slung over his back the way some musicians carry their guitars. On his head, he likely as not wore a spotless, white ten-gallon hat with a leather band and silver stars around the brim. He even wore a carved leather holster that held his six-shooter. Back then, almost every man carried his gun in his pocket or tucked into his belt, so Charlie looked, well…like a sideshow cowboy in a Wild West show. 

			
“Oobatz!”—crazy—the Sicilians would laugh—but not to his face.

			
The cowpokes in town used to say. “The boy don’t have nothin’ under his hat but hair,” but that wasn’t true. That cowboy had plenty of notches on his gun and brains in his head, no matter how fancy his clothes were. 

			
He just liked to dress up. 

			
Not that a fella dressing up like that didn’t cause talk. Most other men looked like they’d been sleeping outside too long or mining too hard. 

			
Not Charlie.

			
Looking like a dandy man was his game. It kept everybody off guard. He’d show up to a poker game all dressed up so the marks would take him for a mark, and he’d usually wipe them out. Sure, he had to kill a few gamblers along the way, but who didn’t? He liked to say, “If you don’t know who the sucker at the table is, then it’s you.”

			
On the first day Charlie came courting, Callie had washed up good, tied her hair in ribbons, and put on a dress trimmed in lace that she had made herself. She was waiting for her intended with her Mama and Papa out on the front porch when Charlie rode up on his big black horse with those silver spurs and the stars on his hat sparkling like fire in the sunlight. By God, he dazzled like a prince. 

			
Callie, who was much shyer than her mother had ever been, turned so red at the site of him approaching that Charlie thought maybe she was all burnt up from working out in the field like a farmhand. When he tipped his hat, Callie got to shaking so hard Maria worried that she might fall off the steps. 

			
To make it all worse, Callie wasn’t anybody’s idea of a beauty queen—nice gal but plain in the face, a broken nose, skinny as store-bought thread and flat as the side of a barn. So, all that shaking and shying that could have looked charming on a pretty woman, well, on poor Callie, it looked like a case of the palsy. 

			
Charlie wasn’t what you’d call taken with the young lady. But since the families had worked it out and it was all decided, he did his duty and made a little small talk with Callie for a few minutes. When he got up to go talk to Mariano about future product distribution, that poor girl jumped up so fast she spilled her mama’s homemade red wine-and-peaches all over Charlie’s pretty, white-fur chaps. Those furry pants ended up looking like they’d been attacked by a boar in a peach orchard. He said it was alright, but he didn’t mean it. To a dandy like Charlie, wrecking his duds was worse than shooting his horse. 

			
Maria knew Charlie wouldn’t be a good or faithful husband to Callie, but who was? At least she and Mariano had fallen hard in love as soon as they laid eyes on each other, so he had been faithful. At first. 

			
She had taught Callie, like all her daughters, to cook, sew, and keep a clean house. She tried to talk about sex with the girl the night before the wedding, but Callie looked bored. Maria was worried. 

			
The wedding between Callie Barbera and Charlie Carlino was planned to take place at The Sacred Heart Cathedral in Pueblo. The family’s own priest, who had also relocated from Lucca Sicula—Father Angeletto—was on tap to perform the service. 

			
Callie was done up in a beautiful white dress, white stockings, and button top shoes with high heels. Her sisters had braided her hair with flowers, and her mother had embroidered a veil. Together they had pulled Callie’s corset strings so tight they almost broke her ribs, but the poor girl was so skinny they could have pulled ‘till the cows came home, and she still wouldn’t have any curves. 

			
Charlie, on the other hand, in a silk coattail suit with his long, black, curly hair trailing out the bottom of his silk top hat was so pretty, he put even Laura and Angelina to shame. He looked like a God. 

			
One of the women in the church, whispered too loud, “Oooowee! That boy’s as fine as dollar cotton,” which set up embarrassed giggles.

			
Taking no chances, Mariano did not lift Callie’s veil for the handoff, but when Charlie did, the murmuring from some of the meaner lady guests could have been heard all the way to Denver. 

			
Everybody felt sorry for the bride except for one Carlino cousin, Donatella, who was crazy, madly, in love with Charlie. She whispered to another disappointed cousin, Felicia, “Don’t feel bad for her, she got the best-lookin’ man in the state. Feel bad for me because he should have been mine.” 

			
Felicia elbowed Donatella in the ribs and said, “Calm down! He wudda cheated on you, just like he’s gonna cheat on poor, poor Callie.” 

			
Donatella laughed almost out loud. “Yeah, but it wudda taken him a whole lot longer to start!” 

			
Callie knew they were laughing about her less-than-beauty-queen face and stick figure, and she burned with shame. But she had a little secret of her own. 

			
What they didn’t know was that Callie had snuck into town more than once to pay a visit to Mariano’s left-hand wife, Cora-Lee Jones. Callie wanted to learn a thing or three about pleasing a man. 

			
What Callie had known about sex up until that point, she’d learned from watching livestock. What she learned from Cora-Lee no cow ever did to no bull. Sugar Moon and vino flowed like spring water at the wedding party which was held in the Carlino’s meadow. The Carlinos supplied bunkhouse-big pots of Sunday gravy—tomato sauce with braciole, pork ribs, meatballs, and homemade sausage—which was served with the pasta. 

			
The Barberas supplied the American BBQ. They’d slaughtered a goat, a pig, and ten chickens. The women had made every kind of Italian pastry. When the dancing started, everyone headed into the spotless barn that had been decorated with flowers and paper streamers. Peter had hired a bunch of the locals to play music with them: Joe on guitar, Peter and Mickey on fiddles. 

			
Much to the annoyance of the new couple’s fathers, the local musicians were Greek and Black fellas, so the closest they got to the tarantella were square dance tunes. Joe, Mickey, and Peter had to tell them to take a break so they could play the Italian songs. The crowd made them play until their fingers practically fell off, with every old man in the crowd getting up to sing. 

			
Charlie was so graceful on his feet when he waltzed with Donatella and kicked up his heels with the Barbera sisters in a tarantella, it was like his patent leather shoes with spats didn’t touch the ground. Even when he was square dancing, he was smooth as silk with his coattails flying out behind him like he was a bird. Callie watched him, her love overflowing like water over a falls. He knew she didn’t dance, so he occupied himself with the willing ladies. Callie was OK with it—as long as he didn’t make her dance. 

			
Joe, Peter, and even Austin were all good dancers, and they had all tried to teach Callie dance steps before the wedding, but it was about as hopeless as trying to put socks on a rooster. 

			
So, at the wedding shindig, each brother took a turn sitting and talking with Callie while the other brothers whirled their sisters and all the other pretty young ladies on the dance floor. 

			
They were trying to make Callie look occupied so she could somehow get away without dancing. But it wasn’t to be. When the crowd demanded it, Charlie finally did the traditional thing and took his new wife’s hand to lead her to the dance floor. Callie, bless her heart, turned purple with embarrassment. So did her mama, while her brothers and papa ran to the booze barrel. They knew what was coming: The Wedding Dance. 

			
The women tied colorful streamers onto the hands of the bride and groom, as the guests surrounded them, and each took hold of a streamer. The guests were supposed to wrap the streamers around the couple as they swirled around in a waltz. 

			
Callie tried following her new husband, but she was so clumsy she nearly choked herself on the streamers. Worse, she stomped all over Charlie’s beautiful white spats with each step. The crowd stood there with their mouths open, and even the meanest of them was embarrassed for her. Peter, Austin, Joe, and Mariano belted back the booze like it was banned, which it actually was. 

			
As soon as the hellish dance display was over, Charlie headed right to his family’s house and changed into his boots. 

			
“What the hell did Papa get this poor girl into?” Peter whispered to his brothers. 

			
“Yeah,” Austin whispered back. “Charlie looks mad as a sheep-killin’ dog. I hope he don’t take it out on Callie once they get alone.”

			
They belted back more booze. 

			
Papa didn’t care if Charlie whipped the girl bloody once they got alone—or even every day of her life. Mariano Barbera was a happy man. He had pulled off the deal of a lifetime. 

			
When the time finally came for the bride and groom to leave, Charlie unhappily lifted Callie onto the buckboard that had been decorated with flowers and cowbells, lest anyone miss the hooting and hollering as the couple rode off to make history. Or to make misery as Charlie’s cousin Luigi joked. 

			
Charlie and his brothers had built the couple a nice little house close to the Carlino’s main home so that Charlie could hang out with his brothers until he was forced to go home to his new bride. 

			
When the couple got to their new house, Charlie, as was his nature, did the right thing and carried his new bride over the threshold. She nearly passed out with nervous excitement as this was the first time a man ever touched her. 

			
I am the luckiest girl in the whole world, Callie thought when he lifted her up even though the bones in her corset nearly pierced a lung. All Charlie was thinking was that she was so skinny he could feel her bones through her corset. 

			
He had been hard drinking all day, so he knew he was too drunk for loving her up that night. With any luck, he thought, he’d just pass out. And for that he thanked the Good Lord. Maybe he’d have to stay drunk the rest of his life. 

			
How was he supposed to ever do right by his bride? How was he going to give her babies? He just did not have desire for her. 

			
It got worse. Charlie was so drunk it took a while to wobble back to the front door to kick it closed. But when he turned around, he was so shocked by what he saw, he sobered up in about half a second. In the time it took to shut the door, Callie had managed to take off every bit of her bridal getup except the veil covering her face and stood before him, naked as the day God made her. 

			
He was about to run out and try to figure out what the hell to do, when Callie grabbed onto him, unbuttoned his pants, pulled them to the floor, took his member in her hand and began to do what Cora-Lee had shown her on a wooden doohickey she kept on her dresser. He was so shocked that he jumped back in horror. 

			
“How did you learn that? You’re not just unsightly, girl, but you’re actin’ like a whore to boot!” he screamed. 

			
Callie, that usual nervous Nellie, got very calm and easily recited exactly what Cora-Lee had taught her to say: “I know you could take any woman to bride, but our families made a pact. I am your wife now, and since I am not as comely as some, I learned how to please my future husband in other ways. From a woman who is an expert in these things.” 

			
Charlie was so shocked he tripped and fell on the floor while trying to pull up his pants and get out the door at the same time. 

			
“Who?” was all he could get out from this position on the floor. 

			
“Papa’s left-hand wife, that’s who.” 

			
“Cora-Lee?” he cried out like he’d been shot. 

			
As Charlie lay there unable to move like a man who’d been shot for real, butt-naked Callie slid on top of him, wiggled her way down, removed her veil, smiled up at him, and put him in her mouth. 

			
Cora-Lee was right, Callie thought. This is a whole helluva lot of fun! 

			
They definitely made history—not misery—that night. All night. And every night. 

			
Never was there a more faithful Carlino man than Charlie. Not that he gave up the card table, the booze, or walking around like a popinjay, but he left the tables earlier, stayed home longer, and arrived at the stills every morning looking happy as any man who’d been out whoring all night. Nobody ever imagined that Charlie’s “whore” was his own wife. 

			
Mariano himself couldn’t figure it out. He knew the Carlino brothers were not happy that the handsomest of the Carlino men had ended up with a girl no man would look at twice. The family’s oldest brother and next in line, Sam Carlino, couldn’t say anything since he had agreed to the matchup. That girl, he’d tell his wife, would never produce children worthy of the Carlino name. But good ole Charlie never said a word to anybody, leaving them to speculate about what the hell he was up to. 

			
Everybody saw it and everybody said it: Since the wedding, Charlie always had a smile on his face. He’d sometimes lose himself in thought in the middle of business and start grinning like a loon. And Callie? She wasn’t just happy she was happifying her man, he was happifying her every single night too. 

			
The girls down at Mrs. Bianchi’s even started complaining about how much they missed Charlie. They thought he’d be back the night after the wedding looking for some good lovin’, but he never showed up for them again. 

			
Back when he’d been out whoring every night, those ladies would fight over who’d get him upstairs first. No more. He had stopped looking at other women altogether. 

			
Charlie was such a happy man that he would take Callie all the way to Denver to buy her fancy bonnets and silk dresses with ruffles and ribbons. One time he even bought her a new-fangled, short, and very racy flapper dress to show off her great legs, which had grown fatter from living the good life. Nobody in Pueblo had ever seen a lady’s legs on display like that. Hell, not even a lady’s ankles. Well, not any lady who didn’t work over at Mrs. Bianchi’s anyway. They’d drive around in his new Model-T Ford, and when they’d stop, she’d swing her legs out, the tops of her silk stockings on display bold as brass. 

			
Yup, her gams became as much the talk of the town as her hubby’s duds. 

			
And Callie was always happy to help her dapper dandy pick out even fancier duds for himself. He took to wearing a white fedora with a feather in the hat band on special occasions. The couple dressed in such finery that folks stopped to stare at them. Nobody could ever figure him out before he got married, and after he was hitched, he became more of a curiosity than ever. What kinda man not just dressed like that himself but dressed his wife up like a doll? It wasn’t normal.

			
“Maybe Charlie is a two-spirit,” Yellow Fly, a Ute cowhand at the Barbera ranch said to his brother Water Man, who everybody called Walter. 

			
“Could be,” said Walter. In two seconds flat, the other hands joined in the speculating. 

			
“You mean he’s a feller who likes men, not the ladies?” asked Jimmy John, a drifter cowhand who roamed from ranch to ranch. 

			
“No,” Yellow Fly explained. “We believe there are lady-ladies, man-ladies, lady-men, man-men, and some who aren’t neither or maybe both.”

			
The bunkhouse grew quiet as the fellas tried to make sense of what Yellow Fly had said.

			
Finally, somebody piped up with, “But that’s more’n two spirits or whatever you call it, that’s four.” 

			
“Five, not four,” said Lawrence “Bones” T. Bone, the cook who showed up for cattle drives and poker games.

			
One of the Negro cowhands, Bill Black aka Black Bill thought about it and finally said that even though Charlie was sure pretty enough to be a lady-man, he and Callie sounded like they couldn’t get enough of each other. 

			
“Those two are louder than howlin’ wolves,” his cousin Silas pointed out. “That don’t sound like no lady-man to me.” 

			
No, none of that talk was to make fun of Charlie, no sirree. Nobody back then cared very much who a man had sex with. There weren’t any ladies on cattle drives, so well, a man found his loving where he could. 

			
But cowhands have leaky mouths as everybody knows and love to yak it up just for the sake of it. 

			
Truth be told, Charlie was a favorite among the men because he was tough, he was fair, he was funny, and he was so beautiful to look at that even the roughest of the men couldn’t help but stare at him. 

			
Mariano, of course, had heard talk about Charlie’s possible “proclivities.” He just ignored it. 

			
Not that he didn’t think it himself. One time, he told Cora-Lee that any man who walked around town in white fur pants must be finocchio. She just smiled. You didn’t have to be Sicilian to figure out what finocchio meant. 

			
One thing was sure: If Charlie had ever been a two-spirit fella, he was strictly a one-woman man now.

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 18 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 18 –

			
The Great Escape 

			
Pueblo, Colorado

			
June 3, 1921 

			
Flo managed to reach the age of five without Mariano doing her in. That was a good thing. It meant she could start school. 

			
School? No way was she going to school, she cried, her lips even more ruby-red than usual. Every day? No way! Not without Blue, and not without Clara she screamed. Flo wasn’t the kind of child you could punish, reason with, or smack into submission. Not even Maria could give her a good whack on her coulo when she deserved it for fear of Blue jumping into the scene. 

			
Flo stomped her feet and ran off with that wolf of hers and wouldn’t come back, so Maria went searching and found the two of them sleeping in the woods. Since she couldn’t make her do what she wanted her to do, Maria had figured out long before this incident that she had to make deals with her stubborn daughter. 

			
Maria promised Flo that she’d lie about Clara’s age to the school marm and tell her the girls were twins. In exchange, Blue would have to wait for them outside—no wolves allowed in school. 

			
Maria figured she’d get away with it because it wasn’t like anybody had been there to record their births. Flo and Clara had been born in the wild in the shack on the mountain. And they had no birth certificates, so who cared what the teacher might suspect. 

			
Even though Clara was tiny for her age and Flo was tall for hers, Miss Trainer, the school marm, allowed them both into the school but warned Maria that she’d be checking with the town hall to be sure of Clara’s age. With Flo interpreting, Miss Trainer warned Maria, “Either she’s a midget, or you aren’t being honest with me, Mrs. Bearbary,” deliberately mispronouncing their last name. 

			
Maria didn’t like the teacher lady’s tone, but she believed Miss Trainer would never be able to find out Clara’s real age anyway. She didn’t realize that since the family had gone legit (sort of), and bought property, they had participated in the government census. Peter told Maria that the kids’ ages were written down in black and white for the government to see. Worse, he said, the town clerk who collected taxes had probably made birth certificates once the children were registered on the census. Clara was eleven months younger than Flo and not old enough to go to school, so she would never be allowed back once the teacher found out. Flo cried her eyes out to Joe and Peter as though the world was coming to an end, and it broke their hearts. These tough guys were soft as creamed butter when it came to their little sisters, and there wasn’t much they wouldn’t do for them. 

			
That very night, the town hall just happened to burn to the ground, taking all the records with it. The Barbera family was never questioned about the fire or the ages of the children by anybody ever again. 

			
Clara lived the rest of her life believing she was Flo’s twin. 

			
The “twins” continued to ride the family donkey—they called her Bella Ragazza—to the one-room schoolhouse and back every day with only Blue as their guide and protector. They only missed school when the snows came. But now it was June, and they had finished nearly a whole school term with nothing going wrong. 

			
As for Blue, she had recovered, though she had lost the wild animal savagery she needed to lead her old pack. But she was still strong and wild enough to tear a man or most beasts limb from limb, and Mariano knew he was number one on Blue’s kill list. He didn’t know why the wolf was no longer with her pack, but he knew enough to stay out of her way. 

			
She was now as domesticated a wolf as anyone had ever heard of and was Flo’s closest companion. She waited outside the schoolhouse every day until the girls were dismissed to guide them back home. Dismissal often meant finding the bloody carcass of a cougar, beaver, or other animal near the schoolhouse. Blue’s fangs and fur would be smeared with blood—but probably never her own. It was enough to keep Miss Trainer in her place. 

			
Now that the Barberas had a bigger house and the kids even had beds, Maria and Flo would wash the blood off Blue in the stream before the beast curled up on Flo and Clara’s bed. 

			
School meant that, for the first time, the girls met kids who weren’t in their family or even in their family’s tiny circle of other Sicilian families. Some kids weren’t their color, and most of them either didn’t know much, if any, English or had accents so thick it was hard to understand what they were saying. They all were afraid of Blue but understood she was there to protect Flo and Clara. Miss Trainer would make Flo send Blue off into the woods during recess for fear that the wolf would drag one of the kids away. 

			
Flo and Clara learned the alphabet and had begun to write out sentences. They had little chalkboards and would proudly show Mama how they wrote their own names and words like “house” and “horse” in English. The first word Flo learned to spell was “Blue.” Maria was so thrilled her girls could write she nearly cried, even though she could not read the words they wrote. Mariano only cared that his sons had learned to read and write in English, could add and subtract numbers, and could shoot a man’s eye out before he got his gun cocked. 

			
Maria knew the danger her family faced in the bootlegging business, but all in all, America had gone—in her mind—from a nightmare to a mixed blessing. 

			
Life was hard wherever you lived, but where else would her “unmarriageable” daughter, Callie, be so happily married to a rich, handsome man who worshipped her? Charlie didn’t care that Callie wasn’t shapely or that she had a big, broken nose. Charlie was so wild for Callie that if she had ever told him the truth—that it was her father who broke her nose when she was twelve—Charlie would for sure have gone and killed Mariano as dead as Caesar. She never did tell him because it was important to keep the peace between her new family and old. 

			
Maria was proud of all her children. Back in Sicily, her daughters—or even her sons for that matter—would never have gone to school. They would never have learned to read and write. And she herself would never have lived on her own husband’s ranch with milking cows, goats, and chickens. And recently, Joe and the ranch hands had driven one hundred head of yearling steer from Ogallala, Nebraska, to the Barbera’s spread. They were true American ranchers. 

			
Mariano—who could ride a horse with the best of them—didn’t go to pick up the cattle with them because there was the more profitable bootleg operation to tend to. 

			
He did, however, design a cattle brand and had the local blacksmith make the branding irons and a sign which he hung at the front edge of their fenced-off property. The “Circle Double Bar A” ranch it was called because the brand looked like two bars with a circle underneath and a bottomless triangle on top. It spelled out in symbols the family’s name with a circle for “unity.”

			
For the first time since Maria and Mariano married, there was food aplenty, fresh water from their own spring, homegrown vegetables to eat, and sugar beets to turn into Sugar Moon—and, of course, there was plenty of homemade wine. The fact that her husband was violent was less important to her now that she had Blue and Flo to keep the beast at bay. 

			
Sure, it was a hard life, having to make three meals a day for the family and the ranch hands. But her daughters did their part too. 

			
Maria was actually glad that Mariano had taken a left-hand wife to keep him occupied, though she never let on that she knew about her. Better her than me, she’d say to herself when Mariano would stay away for days. There was talk that Cora-Lee had a child by Mariano, but that was none of her business either. 

			
When he was home, Mariano would start drinking hard before the girls got home from school or supper was on the table. Then he’d drag Maria to their bed, hold her down, and take her over and over again. Then she’d go back out—usually with fresh bruises—and finish cooking. 

			
She didn’t think to call what happened to her “rape” because he was her husband and had his rights, but it was rape no matter which way you called it. 

			
What was Maria’s business was an understanding that bootlegging had brought them a good life. Make no mistake, she kept an eye on every barrel and every cent, even after the Carlinos took over most of the business. That little Sicilian lady was proving every day, and in every way, that she was very much the brains behind the bootleg. She also began keeping a strict eye on the product and the livestock. 

			
In fact, when the steers arrived, she, along with Mickey and Joe, took control of the branding and bookkeeping as each calf was set out to graze. It was a beautiful thing to behold. 

			
No one from the old country would ever have imagined that this could have been possible. Barbera Bootleg Booze had bought them honest-to-God American respectability. Well, almost. Mariano was a real Colorado rancher living the American dream. 

			
But the dream meant he would always be looking over his shoulder for a prohi, a fed, a sheriff, a bounty hunter, or worse, “soldiers” from a rival family armed to the teeth looking to do them in. Mariano had killed Rocky’s men for revenge, but since becoming a bootlegger, he had also killed two rival bootleggers for the hell of it and a bounty hunter to warn anybody else who might come looking for him. Those stories, the rumors around them, and his wanted poster helped build Mariano’s reputation as a dago to be feared. 

			
But anything worth having was worth risking it all to keep it. After a terrible, tragic start, life in this America had turned out to be good for the Barberas. Until it wasn’t. 

			
June 3, 1921, started out like every other day—except for one little thing. Flo had caused a ruckus in the classroom the day before when she smacked another girl—very hard—for making fun of Blue. As punishment, the teacher told Flo she’d have to stay after school and clean the chalkboard erasers, wash down the chalkboard, and sweep the schoolhouse. And Clara had to stay after school, too, because she couldn’t go home by herself. Maria wasn’t happy with Flo’s wild ways (or the schoolmarm’s strict ways, either, for that matter) but figured it wouldn’t do Flo any harm to get some discipline.

			
In the late afternoon, Blue began an unholy howling outside the schoolhouse. Miss Trainer threw her hands up. That wolf was always creating a commotion. When she wouldn’t allow Flo to go outside to see what was bothering Blue, the wolf started scratching at the schoolhouse door. Miss Trainer had had it up to here with the beast and finally screamed at Flo to climb out the window, afraid to open the door for fear the wolf would charge inside. Clara scrambled after her sister and got halfway out the window before the teacher grabbed her feet to keep her from escaping. Didn’t work. Clara kicked the teacher’s hands away and wiggled her way out. 

			
Once both were outside, Blue, acting crazy, bit the hem of Flo’s calico dress—the one she loved best with the flowers on it—and dragged her back to the tied-up donkey like a mother grabbing a bad kid by the ear. Little Clara was close behind. 

			
Miss Trainer yelled at them to come back. “If you dare leave, you’ll face the strap tomorrow. I warn you!” When they didn’t turn around, she leaned all the way out the window. “That’s it! Don’t come back! You’re expelled!” 

			
Little Clara, tears streaming down her face, begged, “Please, Miss. Please don’t. My papa will be so mad.” 

			
“Too bad. And don’t send your Guinea gunslinger father here either.” 

			
And that was the last thing Miss Trainer said. Ever. 

			
Clara turned to Flo. “A signorina ni jetta fora se nun tunnamu ‘intra!”—Miss will expel us if we don’t go back inside!

			
Flo, whose lips were now redder than a red-hot chili pepper, said she didn’t care about the stupid teacher anyway. Flo and Blue had their own way of communicating, and she knew that if Blue needed them to go home, they better get a move on. Blue felt something. 

			
Is Mama sick? Did the house burn down? Did Austin take a fit and die? 

			
“Andemu!”—Let’s go!—Flo screamed, even though she knew they were going to get a helluva good paddling from Mama if they didn’t go to school the next day…and a worse paddling from Miss Trainer if they did. 

			
Clara was afraid, so Flo leaned down and grabbed her up like a rag doll and pulled her onto the donkey, as tears ran down little Clara’s face. 

			
Blue ran in front of the donkey. She wasn’t headed towards home, but to higher ground, while constantly looking back, trying to get the donkey to get a move on. Flo was trying to do the same. But donkeys are donkeys, so Bella kept wanting to head home as she usually did. 

			
Blue bared her teeth, which scared the bejesus out of Bella, and she snapped to and reluctantly followed. Blue was leading them to the high ground way above the schoolhouse. “Mama’s gonna give us a lickin’ iffin we get home late,” Clara cried. 

			
Flo shushed Clara and told her Blue must know something they didn’t. “Capish?” 

			
“Si,” Clara answered, hanging her head. “I unnerstan’.” 

			
She didn’t, but she would. 

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 19 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 19 –

			
Rivers Over Flo

			
Pueblo, Colorado 

			
June 3, 1921 

			
Dark clouds hung low along the lofty range, 

			
When broke the storm, Hell’s fury seemed unleashed 

			
To wreck and ruin all the universe… 

			
—Walt Drummond (published in The Pueblo Chieftain June 17, 1921) 

			
As the little band was climbing up that rise, without warning, the sky got very dark, and they could see a cloudburst forming over the city. The clouds opened up, and the rains started falling like nobody’s business. Clara started crying again, griping, and blaming Blue for getting them stuck in this terrible storm, when they could have stayed safe and dry inside the schoolhouse. The winds got to whipping, so the girls found a flat piece of ground where they could tie the little donkey to a tree. Then they did as best they could in the wind and rain to unpack the saddle bag. They managed to get the rain tarp out and covered themselves and Blue, too, praying they wouldn’t die. 

			
Next, they heard an ear-splitting roar down below where the mighty Arkansas River met Fountain creek. Clara screamed and Flo grabbed Blue to keep from screaming. Blue had her fur up as though she could fight the storm. They peeked out from underneath the tarp and saw that the rivers had swelled up higher than heaven. The water’s rise wasn’t just from the ungodly amount of rain but also from the runoff of snow rushing down the mountain like it was its own river, flowing into both the swollen Arkansas River and Fountain Creek. 

			
Even though the girls couldn’t see it as it happened, the rising water had breached the eighteen-foot levee and smashed a one-hundred-foot hole in it. Water surged over the city like the biblical flood. The girls once again peeked out of their makeshift tent and saw horses, cattle and, yes, human beings, being washed away. Then they heard the sounds of buildings collapsing. 

			
Clara screamed, “Bella! Bella!” as the poor little donkey was getting battered by the storm. Bella was braying in terror, but there was just no room for her under the tarp.

			
They lifted the rain tarp up some more—enough to see if Bella was still alive (she was). Unbeknownst to them, the city of Pueblo was, for the most part, getting swept off the face of the earth. 

			
The storm raged for hours, the two little girls not knowing if they’d live or die out there. Blue had forced them to higher ground, saving their lives, and stayed by their side. As the night and the storm wore on, the girls huddled together, their arms wrapped around each other. Blue lay straddled over their laps, keeping them safe and as warm as she could. 

			
After God knows how long, the torrential rains finally took a break—although it was still raining on and off. When dawn broke, the girls, soaking wet and covered in mud, threw the tarp aside. 

			
Bella, battered and covered in branches, mud, and leaves, had broken loose but was still standing nearby. She had survived. The girls ran to her, hugged and kissed her, told her they were sorry she’d had to stay alone during the storm, and promised they’d never do that to her again. 

			
They dried her off with their bare hands, tried to get the mud from her eyes, and walked her down the rise a bit, holding her tight. 

			
When they got to within viewing distance of Pueblo itself, they beheld what couldn’t be possible. Pueblo looked like it was half underwater and mostly destroyed; shattered buildings floated atop the water. 

			
With Blue guiding the way, they began to make their way home, their feet sinking up to their ankles in the mud. The high ground was indeed a slippery slope even for two little girls who’d spent most of their lives outdoors riding horses, planting, digging crops, and learning the ways of the natural world. They kept slipping and sliding as the winds blew and the rains came and went. 

			
They had to get home. But was there a home to go home to anymore? 

			
They didn’t get far because they couldn’t get to the town. Everything was either gone, blocked by debris, flooded, floating away, or on fire. 

			
They got close enough to behold a sight so terrifying, they had no way to make sense of what they were seeing. Giant blocks of fire, floating on top of the river like hell’s own monsters, rushed by. How could the river be on fire? 

			
These fire monsters floated at top speed right into the heart of Pueblo, burning whatever buildings in their paths hadn’t already been swept away. The terrible crashing of buildings collapsing went on and on. 

			
The screams of the dying and injured survivors were worse to the ears of these two young ones—only four and five years old—than were the sounds of the city being destroyed. They sat down on the slippery, sloping ground and stared at what they could see of what remained of the bustling, modern city of Pueblo. Just the day before, the city had hotels, an opera house, stores, businesses, paved streets, trolley cars, sewers, horseless trucks and carriages, plus one of the most modern railroad stations in Colorado, which had seven railroads running in and out of there. 

			
But now everything was uprooted, wrecked, overturned, or gone. 

			
They heard terrible high-pitched sounds and watched a herd of distressed cattle floating down river to their deaths. It sounded like the screams from hell Mama had told them about—the screams of the sinners who would spend eternity burning. 

			
Drowned horses were swept away, whole families huddled on the roofs of houses because the rest was under water. Two railroad passenger cars had capsized, and ladies—wearing dresses cut so low that their breasts were out—were standing on balconies until the river rose up to sweep them away, screaming and waving for help. Cottonwood trees rushed down river, the roots which once held them to the ground pitching skyward like the devil’s own pitchforks. 

			
Worst of all, they saw the twisted bodies of infants and children, all alone, being swept along the mighty river like toys in a carnival game. 

			
How could they ever find home again? 

			
They thought they could make out the schoolhouse—or what was left of it. If they had stayed there, like Miss Trainer had ordered, they would probably be dead. They had gone to higher ground, but they didn’t see any other people up there. Were they the only ones who had gone into the hills? 

			
Pretty much. The good citizens of Pueblo had thought the rising waters would be a grand sight to behold, so hundreds of them made their way to the levee to watch the spectacle. They were having a high old time of it—until the water breached the eighteen-foot-high wall and came crashing through. 

			
But, by God, the little Barbera girls, their wolf, and their donkey were up, up, and away from the flood, though they were a long and dangerous way from home and their mama. 

			
Flo and Clara, bedraggled, scared, wet, cold, and so tired that they needed a rest, moved to a big rock, sat down, and hugged Blue. “You will be our mama until we find our mama. Right, Blue?” 

			
Blue started howling. 

			
That’s when the high, sloping, muddy ground began to slide away. First, it took little Bella. 

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 20 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 20 –

			
The Missing Whore 

			
Pueblo, Colorado

			
June 1921 

			
The Barbera Ranch was far enough from the raging rivers to remain mostly OK except for a section of crops that got damaged from the torrential rain that had fallen. 

			
Word spread that Pueblo was destroyed. Many, many dead. The schoolhouse? Who knew? 

			
Maria cried, screamed, and pulled at her hair like a wild woman, repeating over and over, “Unni sunnu li me picciriddi? Unni sunnu Flo e la picciridda Clara?”—Where are my babies? Where are Flo and little Clara?

			
She got on her knees, begging her go-to saint, St. Anthony, finder of lost things, to help them not just find Flo and Clara, but to find them alive and safe. Meantime, Mariano—who months earlier had set up his left-hand wife, Cora-Lee, in her own bordello downtown—was more concerned about his investment than his missing children. His name was not on the property deed or any legal papers because he couldn’t risk the law raiding the joint and remembering he was still a wanted man. So, he and Cora-Lee just shook on it—that would be the bed, not their hands.

			
He’d financed his gal’s sporting house to make money, yes, but also to keep Cora-Lee from catting around with other men at Mrs. Bianchi’s. As a madam and owner of her newly named Miss Cora-Lee’s Tea Parlour, she got to run her own girls, and Mariano got to run her. Or so he liked to believe.

			
He felt that she was now his property and his alone. He never compared his “ownership” of her to his once being owned by Rockefeller in the mine. Since Cora-Lee held the deed, she let him think what he wanted. She knew otherwise. 

			
For over a year, Mariano had it made in the shade like lemonade stirred with a spade, because he not only skimmed off the top of the whoring business, he was also able to run Barbera booze through the joint to boot. 

			
So, as soon as the heaviest rains let up, Mariano rustled up his sons and some ranch hands. They saddled up and rode towards Pueblo. They were supposed to be looking for his missing daughters, but Mariano was only interested in finding Cora-Lee. 

			
They watched as the Arkansas River receded. Floating on top and rushing by them were human bodies and dead animals, big and small, in the still-raging waters. 

			
They were stopped before they reached the actual town by a sheriff’s posse. The Barberas thought they were after them for bootlegging, but the last thing these lawmen were interested in at that point was the Barbera gang. Mariano and his crew immediately saw why their “enterprise” was of no concern to the law. 

			
And the sight nearly knocked those tough-as-nails cowpokes off their saddles. 

			
The town of Pueblo was no more. Stores, houses, and places of business were destroyed. Mud covered the horseless carriages, so that they looked like clay sculptures. 

			
The once-elegant hotels, boarding houses, and businesses that survived were still knee-deep in water. Trains were derailed, miles of track were still underwater, and two passenger train cars had rolled over on their sides. 

			
Even Mariano was nearly brought to tears by the massive destruction. His tears dried very quickly however, when the sheriff’s deputy asked, his brogue thick as an Irish bog, “Did ye come to volunteer?” When they shook their heads, the deputy told them that by order of Governor Oliver H. Shoup, all men entering town had to aid in the rescue and cleanup. “Go to work or go to jail.” 

			
Joe tried to explain to the deputized lawmen that their little sisters—just four and five years old—were missing. He promised that they’d work their asses off in town after they found the girls. 

			
“Go to work or go to jail,” the lawman repeated. Mariano was about to draw his pistol when Joe stopped him and asked for a compromise: The whole group would stay and work if he alone would be allowed to go search for the girls. 

			
“They never came home from the schoolhouse,” Peter explained. The deputy, who was just a kid himself, said, “I’m real sorry to tell you this, mister, but the schoolhouse was hit hard. Water reached way high,” he said raising his hand above his head. 

			
Then he removed his ten-gallon, looked away, and said, “They found the body of the schoolmarm, Miss Trainer, floating two mile downriver.” 

			
“I know my little sisters escaped,” Joe said without any reason to believe it other than he refused to believe otherwise.

			
Mariano had other concerns. “E li burdelli?” he asked. You didn’t have to speak Italian to know he was asking about the bordellos. 

			
His question shamed his sons and shocked the deputies. How could he be asking about whores in the midst of all the horror and destruction and possible loss of his daughters, the lawmen wondered. 

			
His sons and the ranch hands weren’t surprised; they were just disgusted.

			
Joe dismounted, hat in hand, and quietly apologized for his father’s crudeness, and begged to be allowed to search for his little sisters. 

			
The sheriff nodded his head and told Joe he could go look for the girls, but the rest of the crew had to stay and clean up. Especially that father of his. 

			
The men were put to work cleaning, moving logs, breaking down what was left of destroyed buildings and houses. Even Mariano had no way to get out of it. He really just wanted to go look for Cora-Lee. He shamelessly approached a few of his old compari who had been put to work righting an overturned truck and asked if they knew where Cora-Lee had got to.

			
They all shook their heads. The last thing on their minds was worrying about the ladies in the casa delle puttane—brothel. The girls there weren’t human beings to these men who had used and abused them whenever they had enough coin to do so.

			
As the days went by, filled with the backbreaking work of cleaning up a destroyed city, no word came about anyone they knew who had gone missing since the flood hit. 

			
The Barbera crew worked and waited for what seemed like forever for Joe to return. With each day that passed, the men were losing hope that he’d found the missing sisters. If Joe were anybody but steadfast, reliable Joe, they might have thought he had given up and gone home to tell his mama the bad news.

			
But he hadn’t. He had scoured the whole city, he’d ridden up and down the banks of the still-swollen river, praying he wouldn’t see their corpses floating amid the wreckage, dead animals, logs, and burning timber. He hadn’t seen their corpses, no, but then again, he hadn’t seen their living selves either. He asked every man, woman, and child survivor if they’d seen them, but nobody had. It was as though the girls had vanished off the face of the earth, swallowed up whole by the raging waters. Would they never be found? There wasn’t even a sign of little Flo’s wolf, who would probably have run off and instinctively gone to higher ground. Joe just didn’t know whether it would be worse to go home to his mama without the girls or with, God forbid, their little bodies. 

			
On the fifth day, Joe returned to Pueblo alone. The Barbera crew, who was busy knocking down what remained of the post office, saw him riding into town alone. Peter put down his shovel and, in front of all the men, burst into tears. 

			
Joe hung his head in sorrow and shame that he had come back without them. Mariano was relieved. He’d never have to deal with that devil child and her Goddamned wolf again. As for little Clara? He couldn’t have cared less. One less skinny daughter to marry off. 

			
Meanwhile, Maria was losing what she had left of her mind. Her daughters were missing, and now she had no idea where the hell her boys, the ranch hands, or her husband were. 

			
After a few days of cleaning up, Mariano and the crew were allowed to return home. Peter and the ranch hands went first. They had all agreed on a plan. They’d tell Maria that all the children at the school had been sent to another town temporarily until it was safe to return. They’d deal with the truth later—when Maria had figured out for herself that the girls were not going to return. 

			
Joe stayed to search for them, hoping at least to find their bodies. 

			
Mariano? He didn’t return to the ranch either. He went to look for Cora-Lee. He mounted up and went straight to her place. What he found was a shattered shell of the once-popular Miss Cora-Lee’s Tea Parlour. Hers had been the very girls that Flo and Clara had seen screaming for their lives.

			
The back wall of the building was gone, though the staircase still stood, and chandeliers were on the ground in the mud. The furniture and naked-lady paintings had washed away along with the piano and all the bootleg booze. 

			
No sign of Cora-Lee or any of her specially picked, beautiful painted ladies. Crazy as it sounds, Mariano wasn’t as upset that he’d lost one of his thriving businesses or his stash of Barbera bordello bootleg as he was that Cora-Lee was gone. 

			
It never occurred to him that maybe she’d been killed along with the three hundred or more other poor souls who died horrible deaths that day. No sirree. He was beside himself with the unbearable thought that maybe she had just up and left him. 

			
He imagined she’d hightailed it outta there with the booze and set up in another city. How she and her girls would have done that in the middle of the flood and destruction, he didn’t bother to think about. He was just stricken by the belief that she’d left him. Even the massive flood was only about him. 

			
She must be on her back or on her ass, pleasing other men, he fumed to himself. She was no longer his alone. 

			
“Puttana! Puttana!” he yelled. 

			
In his twisted way, he loved her. 

			
He vowed that when he found her, he’d screw her blue…and then he’d kill her. Nobody left him and lived to tell about it. Nobody. 

			
Then Marian the Barbarian sat down on what remained of the bordello staircase and cried. 

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 21 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 21 –

			
Little Girls Lost 

			
Somewhere in Los Animas County 

			
June 1921 

			
Joe continued his search even though he despaired of ever finding his little sisters. He rode for days up and down the Arkansas River and Fountain Creek, pulling little bodies out where he found them, whether they were still floating or putrefying on the riverbanks. He’d bury them with crosses he’d make from sticks. 

			
Each time he found a body that looked like Flo or Clara, he’d be both relieved that he could bring them home and heartsick that he’d have to bring them home dead. 

			
But after a week, there was no sign of the girls, their donkey, or even Flo’s wolf. One morning, he tracked a wolf up on a high ridge. It looked to be a lone wolf, which was a good sign. But there weren’t human footprints, which wasn’t good. When he finally spotted the wolf—and it was a grey alright—it didn’t have those spooky blue eyes. He was relieved because if it had been Blue, it would mean Flo and Clara weren’t with her. He knew it might sound crazy to anybody else that a man could be relieved that his little sisters weren’t with a wolf, but nothing about his family—especially since little, beloved firecracker Flo was born—was what you could call normal. 

			
So, on he rode. On a Tuesday, with light rain falling, Joe spotted the flower dress his mama had made for Flo. He was sure it was hers because Flo wanted to wear it every single darned day. It was hanging, ripped and ruined, on a high branch of a cottonwood tree. Should he take it back to Mama, so she’d have something of her daughter? He climbed up and managed to get the dress—but he couldn’t decide whether he should give it to Maria or not. 

			
But then he got to wondering whether finding the dress was a good sign or a bad one. Was it there because the girls had made it that far and were alive, or did it mean they’d been drowned and carried further along the river, their bodies smashing into the trees—maybe for miles and miles? 

			
They couldn’t have made it. This had to be ten-miles from Pueblo. Children their age couldn’t have made it this far. There were also no tracks from donkey hooves, but then again, it was so muddy that any tracks close to the riverbank would have been washed away. 

			
Joe tried tracking for two more weeks—asking everybody he could find if they’d seen two little girls—one of ’em wearing just her undergarments. He was a strong man, but his heart would be torn when he allowed himself to imagine the fate that may have befallen his baby sisters and how he might have to break his mama’s heart if he never found them. 

			
Finally, one homesteader lady down by the river told him that a bachelor man—a trapper—had a little girl, or maybe it was two little girls, in his shack up on the mountainside. 

			
That was all she knew. 

			
Joe raced up the mountain, his six-gun in his pocket and his long gun on his shoulder, ready in case he had to kill the man. His mind was racing. Is the man a kidnapper, a slaver, a sexual deviant? he wondered. The thought made him retch. Maybe he’s just a decent, church-going man who kindly took them in until their family came to claim them. Probably not.

			
As Joe got close to the bachelor man’s cabin, he heard what sounded like little girls’ voices. They were crying something fierce, and the sound pierced Joe’s heart like an arrow. 

			
The man had heard Joe’s horse approaching and came out with a shotgun. “Get offin’ my land!” he warned. The man’s lone pig in a small enclosure bellowed.

			
“The mountain ain’t nobody’s land,” Joe reminded him in a not-so-friendly way. The filthy man had a still on his property, but it was a small thing, probably just for his own ‘shine. As he was taking stock of the situation, one little girl came outside, wearing nothing at all. Joe’s heart sank, and his blood boiled. He couldn’t see the girl clearly because she scurried away with her back to him. 

			
“Firenze!” Joe yelled, but the child scampered back inside. “Firenze! Clara! È Peppineddu!”—It’s me, Joe.

			
The man turned his shotgun on the house. “One more word, dago shithead, and I’ll kill those girls sure as I’m standing here.” 

			
“I came for my sisters,” he said. “If you try to keep ’em you’ll have to kill me first, and that ain’t happening. Either which way, if you don’t turn ’em over, the whole Carlino Gang will be up on this mountain faster than a herd of scalded cats.” 

			
“Get the fuck offin’ my land,” the man repeated, aiming his rifle right at Joe. 

			
Joe didn’t flinch but just said, “They will find you. They will slowly kill you, cut you into pieces, and feed what remains of your sorry ass to that pig of yours. Now you turn those girls over to me and nobody will be the wiser.” 

			
“Who the fuck is the Carlino Gang? One of them Guinea bootlegger gangs?” He laughed. “I ain’t afeared of no fuckin’ WOPs.” 

			
As the sobs of the girls got louder, Joe tried to keep himself from committing murder. He wasn’t his father, even though he would have liked nothing better than turning this swine into pig feed. 

			
The man aimed his shotgun at Joe and pulled off a shot. Joe ducked, and before that filthy deviant had a chance to get off another one, Joe shot him between the eyes, causing the varmint’s brains to blow out the back of his head.

			
He heard the little girls screaming inside the house. He dismounted and approached the front door. He cracked it open. The shack had no windows, so he couldn’t make out anything in the dark, but two shapes huddled in the corner. 

			
“Firenze, Clara? É Peppineddu,” he said as softly as he could. All he got in response was sobs

			
As his eyes got used to the dark interior, which smelled of piss and shit and some kind of animal or maybe human remains, he made out the backs of two naked girls with their heads buried in each other’s arms. 

			
As he approached, the thump of his boots hitting the wooden floor sounded louder and more threatening than he meant them to be. He reached down to touch them. They screamed and tried to run away, but he put his arms around them and carried them over his shoulders outside. He had to get them away from the filth—even if it was to see the corpse of their torturer. 

			
He put them down and saw their faces for the first time. Wrong age, wrong height, wrong girls. They weren’t his baby sisters. These girls were tiny, and crooked—probably from not eating—but they weren’t all that young. They could have been twelve or thirteen even. Hard to know. 

			
“Papa!” they screamed, looking at the dead man, whose head was half blown off. 

			
“Oh shit!” Joe moaned. He had killed their father. 

			
But there was something wrong with this picture. What kind of man keeps his daughters naked? As Joe tried to get them to stop their screaming, he saw the bruises on their faces, arms, and legs. Then he saw the rope burns on their wrists and ankles. 

			
As they stood shivering and afraid, he took two shirts out of his saddlebags and covered them up. “It’s gonna be OK,” he said. “I’ma take you home to my mama. She’ll take good care of you.” 

			
Then, even though they were cowering and crying and scared out of their heads, Joe managed to lift the two girls onto his horse, and he walked beside them. 

			
How in the hell was he going to explain this to his mama? He didn’t think any further into the future than that. 

			
“What’s your names?” 

			
“Girl,” said one. “Girl,” said the other one. They didn’t even have names. 

			
For two days they rode and walked, stopping to sleep under the stars. On the first night, they shared some salted meat and hardtack that Joe had in his saddle bag. Nobody in the right mind gets excited over dried food, but these girls? They ate like they’d just been served a T-bone steak. 

			
Mama would not be happy to see their terrible manners. Even when they were starving, she’d never let the kids grab whatever food they could find and run away with it. But these poor kids never learned manners because nobody had ever cared enough to teach them…well, anything.

			
After they ate, Joe gave them a trail blanket, and they lay down under a tree and hugged each other to sleep. He heard them whimpering and sobbing, but since he was just a man, he was helpless to know what to do under such unusual circumstances. He thought of Flo and Clara. Were they alone and scared too? Or dead? Had someone shown them kindness?

			
On the second day, Joe killed a rabbit that the girls knew how to skin and make ready for cooking. Joe learned right off that the girls also knew which wild plants were safe for eating such as onion, rice grass, and dandelion, and they knew how to make the wild greens into a soup over a campfire. He hoped his little sisters, wherever they were, remembered how their mama had taught them which plants were safe for eating. 

			
On night two, Joe and the two orphan girls had a real prairie feast: roasted rabbit and plant soup. 

			
He was glad that they had some skills, hoping these small, broken girls with no names might be a help to his mama and that he wasn’t bringing her home more of a burden. Maybe the girls could lend a hand in cooking for the cowpokes in the bunkhouse, which was a big chore three times a day when the boys weren’t out tending or driving herd. 

			
There wasn’t much talking during the next day’s journey either. Maybe just a “watch for the snake,” or “I seen some dandy-lines over there,” until they finally approached the Barbera property, where no words were spoken at all. They passed under the crude arch with the Barbera brand burned into the wood; the girls were all wide-eyed because they had never seen a proper homestead before. 

			
Joe heard the ranch hands screaming first. “It’s Joe! He done brought Flo and Clara home,” Silas Smith screamed. Everybody rushed towards them, Maria tearing out of the front door at top speed. 

			
“Firenze! Chiara! I miei piccoli bambini.”—My little babies!

			
Then, like the ranch hands, she stopped dead in her tracks and went mad, pulling at her hair and screaming like a wild animal. 

			
Somehow it had not occurred to Joe, who was the most level-headed of the whole bunch, that when he came riding home with two girls, folks would think they were Flo and Clara. Instead, he was bringing home a couple of orphans. 

			
Callie, who had come to stay with her inconsolable mother, burst into tears, which set off the rest. Now everybody was crying.

			
Joe took the girls off the horse, hung his head, and said in Sicilian, “Mama. I’m sorry. I’m so sorry, I didn’t find Firenze and Clara. These two girls are orphans.” 

			
The girls, more scared now what with everyone carrying on at once, just sat down on the ground and joined them in wailing. 

			
Angelina and Callie picked the girls up from the ground and took them by the hand to the creek to get them scrubbed up. When they returned, wearing blankets, they took them inside to get them some dresses to wear. Maria went loco. She refused to let anyone wear her lost daughters’ clothes, though they would have fit. These orphans were that small.

			
So, Callie took off her silk petticoats, ripping the bottoms off like they weren’t worth a fortune, and went back outside and put one on each girl. Peter gave them his only two work shirts. 

			
“Mama,” Callie tried to reason, her arms around both girls. “Wouldn’t you want someone to take care of Flo and Clara like this?” 

			
Maria couldn’t be consoled. Callie, not using her head, told her that maybe the two girls were a gift from God. 

			
Maria put her face right up to Callie’s and screamed at her in Sicilian, “What? To replace my babies?” Then she slapped her daughter. 

			
It was a good thing Charlie wasn’t around. He was so smitten with his wife that he wouldn’t cotton to her being slapped around—even by her own mama. 

			
Joe tried to explain to his mother that the girls had been living with a man, maybe their father, who tied them up and did God-knows-what to them. He had rescued them. Surely there was always room for two more at the table. 

			
Walter, never one to keep his mouth shut when he should, said, “But Joe, you said they was orphans.” 

			
Joe answered, “They are now.” 

			
Maria, a kind woman after all, after a while, couldn’t help but take pity on these two wretches. It was what, as Callie had said, she would wish someone had done for her missing babies. So, despite her heartache, she found herself walking the battered girls towards the house. 

			
“Nothin’ that Mama’s Eye-tie pasta cain’t cure,” Walter called out, eyeing the strange little creatures and crying like a girl himself. 

			
A few more days passed, and Maria called Peter and Austin into the house. As they walked up to the house from the corral, Peter said, “I hope she don’t want us to go out lookin’ for Papa.” 

			
“Who’s himself probably out lookin’ for the whore,” Austin answered, as he opened the door and saw the orphan girls all cleaned up and making meatballs. 

			
The girls were little and bent from malnourishment but seemed older than their sizes. They were cleaned up and had some food in their bellies, but their crooked legs and spines made them as sad a sight as you’d want to see. Maria had taken them in, tried her best through her own pain and sorrow to heal them, and had even given them names: Lucia and Antonella. 

			
Maria, fighting back a mountain of tears, wiped her hands on her apron and said as firmly as she could to her family, “It’s time to bury your sisters.” 

			
“But Ma! There ain’t no bodies,” said Austin. 

			
If looks could kill, Maria’s might have killed Austin right on the spot. “I don’t need bodies,” she said, her lips so tight it scared everybody. “Build two coffins. Paint them pink.” Her English was good enough now to at least make her wishes clear in two languages. 

			
Two days later, two pink coffins were put onto the buckboard, and the whole family (well, the whole Barbera family except, of course, for the missing Mariano), the entire Carlino clan, friends, and ranch hands gathered out in the meadow. They all stood around one big, empty grave like Maria had ordered. She wanted Flo and Clara to spend eternity next to each other, even though there was no “each other” in the boxes. 

			
Father Angeletto came out to the graveside riding on his mule like Jesus himself. Joe, Peter, and Mickey played the Ava Maria on their fiddles as the mourners gathered around, weeping and waiting for the priest to begin the funeral ceremony in Latin. 

			
Everyone sobbed harder when Maria opened the coffins and put Blue’s ball and Flo’s tattered flower dress in one coffin and Clara’s rag doll and her favorite dress in the other. She closed the lids and threw herself on top of the closed coffins wailing their names. The sight of that poor lady so overcome with grief made even the toughest cowhands and the usually-calm Carlinos cry like babies as the brothers made ready to lower the coffins on ropes into the ground. The men had to keep Maria from throwing herself into the grave. She had once made an oath to never lose another child and now she had lost two. 

			
Although sadness and grief overcame the group, the Carlinos were also furious as rattlers that Mariano hadn’t had the decency to come home for his own daughters’ funeral—even though he had no way of even knowing a funeral was going on. 

			
“No rispetto!” Charlie whispered to his brothers about Mariano’s absence. “No rispetto!” Then, even lower and in English, God forbid the family would hear, “He must be out chasing that sciaquadell’.” He didn’t add that it was the very same sciaquadell’ who had also made him the happiest man in the whole country. 

			
As they lowered the empty, bright-pink caskets into the ground, Maria began such a loud moaning and rocking that it broke everybody’s hearts. Austin caught her just before she hit the ground in a faint. Callie and Angie let out great sobs, reaching out for their mother. Charlie watched, his heart breaking for his beloved wife. Everyone crowded around Maria trying to do something—anything—for this good woman whose heart was being ripped out in front of them. 

			
Maria was not carrying on in an unusual manner or making what they call a spectacle of herself in front of everyone. What she did and how she was behaving was very normal for any Sicilian mother who couldn’t bear the grief. 

			
Austin, who himself couldn’t bear to see his mama coming undone like that turned away. He knew she loved him best even though he sometimes had fits and visions because he wasn’t right in the head. So, when he had his back to the mourners and was facing away from the grave, he saw something that he just knew couldn’t be there: a grey wolf standing on top of the hill. 

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 22 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 22 –

			
A Time to Mourn, A Time to Dance 

			
Barbera Ranch, Colorado 

			
June 25, 1921 

			
Austin was so upset by the vision of the wolf that he fell down and got to shaking, jerking, foaming at the mouth, and staring up into space. He knew he was having one of his visions when he saw the wolf—he’d had them many times before, especially when he was about to have a seizure. He thought the vision of the wolf meant his sisters were watching over their own funeral. It didn’t stop him from beginning to feel the seizure coming on, however. 

			
Helen and Mickey rushed to Austin’s side, lifted his head off the ground, and, like they’d done so many times before, stuck a stick in his mouth to keep him from swallowing his tongue. 

			
Callie got so scared that the Carlinos would think the fits could be passed on to her own children (God willing, she would get pregnant soon) that she nearly fainted herself. 

			
When Austin’s seizure finally passed, he managed to get himself up, and the first thing he did was to look up the hill. The grey was still there. 

			
He started crying and rubbing at his eyes so hard, it looked like he would poke them out. Finally, he opened his eyes again, and the wolf was gone. It had been just another one of his visions. Sometimes his mother, Clara, and Flo, too, had visions, although they weren’t broke in the head like he was. 

			
After the Austin scare, the family got back to praying over the empty coffins with Father Angeletto. Without saying a word, Austin broke away from the group and walked towards the hill alone. He was so ashamed of fitting in front of everyone that he needed to get away to save his mama even more shame than he’d brought on her already. He wondered if she or any of his sisters had wished it was him that had died and not the girls. He had seen Callie’s face when he came out of the fit—he thought she for sure wished it was him in one of those coffins.

			
Callie’s father-in-law, Don Vito, had seen Austin’s seizure out of the corner of his eye. He shook his head slightly and looked at Callie, who blushed. Yes, Don Vito now knew her family’s secret shame. Would he tell his son to do what men do to keep his wife from getting pregnant? 

			
She had to get pregnant—and soon. Having Charlie’s son would ensure he never left her, or, at least he’d always be tied to her. 

			
Was Cora-Lee still in town to give her advice about getting pregnant, she wondered? But Cora-Lee probably only knew the secret to not getting pregnant, instead of the other way around.

			
Don Vito’s wife, Cologera, who had never cottoned much to her niece/daughter-in-law Callie in the first place, did that thing she did with her mouth, making her lips so small they practically disappeared. It wasn’t bad enough that Callie was no looker, but now Cologera also knew the rumors were true: a Barbera boy had the fits to boot. Since Cologera was sister to Maria, she knew the fits were not something that ran in the Ragusa family; that curse had to have come from that nasty Mariano Barbera’s side of the family. 

			
Cologera had been angry since the start that her husband had agreed to marry her beautiful son Carlo (Charlie) to that, skinny fìmmina sfacciata. 

			
The service was rightfully long with everyone heartbroken for the lost little girls and for Maria. When Father Angeletto finally finished the service, the mourners each threw a wildflower on top of the coffins then turned to go back to the homestead for the funeral meal. As they walked, some noticed that Austin was no longer among them. Since he liked to roam the hills talking to the animals after one of his fits, nobody paid his absence any mind. 

			
The group kept walking towards the hill, some still wailing, all wiping their eyes. 

			
When they rounded the top, they beheld a sight that could not be real. Austin was sitting on the grass with one arm around Flo and the other around Clara, with Blue standing behind them. Ghosts! They were seeing the spirits of the dead girls and that infernal wolf from hell. Maria started to run towards them and was stopped by Peter. “Mama! No. Nun sunnu veri!”—They ain’t real. 

			
As strong as Peter had become, Maria broke free of him and raced towards the girls. Some in the funeral group tried without luck to catch up to Maria to stop her from reaching the ghosts, while others stayed back, yelling, and crying. Most got right down on their knees and made the sign of the cross to protect against the malocch’. 

			
Maria got to the little girls and leaned down, sobbing and trying to hug and kiss them. But they wouldn’t let her touch them. If they were alive, they would have welcomed her, wouldn’t they? But they looked so real. 

			
Even though she couldn’t touch them, she still believed they were her living, flesh-and-blood children. Blue, she saw, was all banged up, missing fur and bleeding from many wounds. 

			
The mourners, meantime, got up off their knees and ran like a wolf pack themselves towards the ghosts. They saw Maria on the rise of the hill with her rosary beads in her hands, giving thanks to Jesus and St. Anthony for performing this great miracle. But some, seeing how filthy the girls were—muddy, scratched, cut, battered, bruised, and only wearing bits of underwear—decided that maybe they had never died in the first place, because as every fool knows, when children died, they became clean and shining in Jesus’s arms. 

			
Some of the rest of them thought the girls must still be dead because the living would never act like this, only allowing that hellish wolf and Austin—who they all now knew was off-his-rocker—to touch them. 

			
So, were they alive or spiriti? Father Angeletto decided they had definitely returned from the dead, so he needed to write to Rome immediately to tell of the miracle.

			
Then Yellow Fly said, “Maybe the ‘twins’ really were dead and came back for their own funeral.” His people believed the soul lived on after death, and they were, after all, on Indian land. Or what once was Indian territory. 

			
Charlie Carlino had another thought, which he voiced out loud. “Maybe that dang wolf is like that she-wolf, Lupa, in the Romulus and Remus tale.” The crowd got to whispering and speculating that maybe these “twins,” too, were like the twins in that tale. Back in ancient times, everyone believed those twins had drowned, but they had really escaped death, were saved by a she-wolf, and finally returned to their true home. “Thing is,” one of the Carlino uncles pointed out, “when Romulus and Remus were old enough, the king, who had tried to kill them, was killed himself—probably by them twins.”

			
Nobody would say out loud that maybe Flo and Clara had come back to kill their “king”—the ornery, missing Mariano. But everyone thought it.

			
Maria understood the truth though, and she always had, since the minute the she-wolf entered the shack when Firenze was born. These weren’t ghosts—these were her own flesh-and-blood children. And as she had known somehow on the day Firenze was born, she knew there had to be a proper hand-off, mother-to-mother. Blue had been the girls’ mother through their mysterious journey home. So, Maria hugged the wolf, thanked her, and gently examined her terrible wounds. Flo pointed to the fur on Blue’s back. It looked like a recent bullet wound, and it was a bad one.

			
“Pi favuri, Mama! Fix Blue!” Flo cried and allowed her mama to touch her face and even her lips, which weren’t very bright anymore. The crowd roared. Half of them with fear, half of them with joy. 

			
Maria declared that the living girls had indeed returned home. They were not spiriti. Anyone who didn’t believe it should leave and never speak to her again. Nobody knew what the hell to do, so they all stood there like posts. 

			
Then Maria ripped her black dress right off right in front of everyone and ordered the men to use it to lift Blue. 

			
When the girls were convinced Blue was being cared for—and, for that matter that they were really home—they allowed their mama to hug them, which set the mourners all to wailing again. What started out as tears of sorrow for the dead became tears of joy for the living. 

			
Everyone wanted to hug the girls, but they wouldn’t let anyone other than Maria and Austin touch them, and they wouldn’t be separated from Blue. So, the wounded wolf was carefully lifted onto the wagon along with the girls—the same wagon that had carried their pink coffins—and they headed towards home. 

			
At the gravesite, Peter, Joe, and Mickey, all dressed alike in men’s Sunday suits, picked up their fiddles and broke out playing “Buffalo Gals,” and the mourners started dancing with joy. Had a stranger passed by and seen the fresh-dug graves and dancing, he’d have thought for sure the crowd was possessed by the devil. 

			
Once in the wagon and safely on their way home, Flo squinted her eyes, scary-like, and said loud enough for everyone to hear, “Dov’è papà?”—Where’s Papa? No one had an answer, but it was more than likely most of them secretly prayed he was dead.

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 23 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 23 –

			
Don’t Read All About It

			
Somewhere Near Pueblo, Colorado

			
1921 

			
They had all managed to get along without Papa just fine now that the boys were grown. As the days wore on, Flo’s lips regained their unnaturally bright ruby color and both she and Clara, under Maria’s steady hand, began to heal and regain their health. And so did the orphans, Antonella and Lucia. But the wounds to the minds of those four girls would last forever.

			
Austin had removed the bullet from Blue’s back the first day, and Flo applied moldy bread to it every day after, wrapping it with a big piece of muslin to keep it in place. Even though her wounds had been very bad, she also began to heal. Peter liked to say that the wolf would have been safer defending herself in the wild than watching out for his wild little sisters. Probably true too. 

			
After a few weeks, Clara really wanted to talk to her mama about how she saw her beloved Bella get swept up in the mudslide and disappear. But when she tried to talk, Flo shushed her. It was not to be spoken of, not yet. Flo needed to keep it all inside as though she was ashamed of what had happened to them. Clara remained heartbroken and would mourn that donkey until the day she died. 

			
Right then, though, the most important thing on Flo’s mind was to nurse Blue back to full health. She insisted a mattress of straw be sewn for the big wolf so she could be comfortable and sleep next to Flo as her wounds healed. 

			
It was more than a month before the girls slowly began to share the story with their mama, bit by bit, of how they had survived. They told her of how Blue had taken them to higher ground just before the flood. How somehow with God’s blessing, they sat down to rest on a big rock and, unlike Bella, had not been in the direct path of the mudslide. They told of other flood survivors they’d met on the way who were searching for kin. Those who had it to spare, gave them what scraps they could to eat. And how some lowdown varmint had tried to steal them one night where they were sleeping on the prairie, but Blue had attacked the man, and he shot at them as they escaped. 

			
Could he have been the father of Antonella and Lucia?

			
Weeks passed, and one day, a reporter from the Pueblo Times by the name of Robert Roberts Jr. showed up. He’d heard the impossible tale of the brave little girls whose pet wolf had taken them to higher ground to escape the flood. He wanted to be the first reporter to get the scoop. What a story! Talk about your heartwarming, human-interest article. It was just the kind of tale the beaten-down folks of Pueblo needed. 

			
So, Robert Roberts Jr. drove to the ranch in his Model T, took his camera out to take their picture, and planned to write it up from the girls’ own lips. 

			
Maria heard his noisy car pull up and stood peering out from behind the screen door. 

			
Roberts Jr. got out of his car, tipped his hat, and said, “Good day to you ma’am. I’m here to talk to your daughters about their incredible story of survival. But you can’t be their mama because you look so young!” 

			
Of course, Maria had no idea what bull this man was slinging, but she could tell a smooth talker in any language. Flo, who had followed her to the door, translated what the man had said for her. Maria had already sized him up for a no-good, but when she found out he was a reporter, she knew for sure he was. Besides which, if the girls photographs, God forbid, showed up in a newspaper, it would bring nosy strangers—not to mention the law—to their home. She swung open the screen door with the force of a hurricane wind.

			
“Ehi, signuri! Vatinni fora cu tutta a machina fotografica!”—Get out of here with your camera.

			
“Ma says you gotta leave,” said Clara, who was never more than a foot away from Flo. 

			
But the man ignored them and kept setting up his camera on the front porch. After all, who listened to little girls or a woman, let alone a WOP? He just grinned his big, toothy smile as though he was an actor in one of those moving pictures. 

			
“Aww come on girls! Move a little to the right,” he ordered, moving them into position for a good shot. “You’ll be famous like Annie Oakley and Calamity Jane. And where’s that wolf of yours?” 

			
He laughed under his breath, figuring the little mother would scare easier than a rabbit. He had an assignment, and he wasn’t about to leave until he got the story and the pictures to go along with it. He told the girls to tell their mama he was going to make them famous, which was exactly the wrong thing to say. 

			
Once again, Maria asked him to leave, and once again, he ignored her and kept talking up the girls. Maria finally threw her hands up and went back inside, wiping her hands on her apron. 

			
“Well, that was easy,” the reporter chuckled, then said under his breath (which they heard anyway), “That one’s so timid she wouldn’t bite a piece of bread.” 

			
The girls laughed. How dumb could one grown man be? 

			
The front door opened—as they knew it would—and out came Maria with a long gun—as they knew she would. 

			
“No u capisti? Italiano? Oh-kay Doookey,” Maria said, aiming the rifle between his eyes. “I tell Englay-say at you. Get offa my ’ouse or I shoot you dead.” 

			
Flo shook her head and said, “Mister? I’d listen to her if I was you. Mama’s got pretty good aim.” Maria stepped closer to him, shoving the girls behind her and kicking over Robert Roberts Jr.’s camera stand. 

			
“Va’ e fatti’na passiata!” which sort of means “Take a walk.” 

			
You didn’t need to understand Italian to understand a rifle at close range aimed your way. That reporter grabbed his equipment and backed right the hell off the porch without taking his eyes off Maria or the rifle while trying not to trip and fall. 

			
Still, he yelled, “I’ll be back! You ain’t seen the last of me!” as he turned around and ran to his Model T. He was loading his camera into the back of his open-top sedan when he felt a tug on his pant leg. He hadn’t heard anything, so he looked down. “Oh shit!” A giant grey wolf was tearing at his brand-new brown-striped pants. Good thing he was wearing suspenders to hold them up, or he would have been, as the poker players like to say, “All mouth and no trousers.” 

			
Austin showed up behind him out of nowhere. “Blue! Stop!” he yelled. The wolf let go of Roberts Jr.’s pant leg and snarled. Roberts Jr. said, “Thanks, Mister,” surely thinking there was at least one sane person in the group. 

			
Austin smiled and made what the reporter wrongly took as an apologetic shoulder shrug. Roberts Jr. nodded his head and winked. 

			
Austin was confused, and said, “What? Since you don’t capisti Italiano, Mister, let me explain. If Mama says no newspaper story, it’s no newspaper story.” 

			
Now it was Roberts Jr.’s turn to look, if not confused, then exasperated, rolling his eyes like he was trying to communicate with a bunch of monkeys. 

			
Austin gave him the bad eye. “Capisti, pardner?” Then he shoved Roberts Jr. with all his might backwards over the car’s open top. The reporter fell in with his feet sticking up. Austin leaned in and smiled, proud to show off his new gold front tooth. “Nice to make your acquaintance, Robert Roberts Junior. That’s what they call you, right?” he said, smacking the side of the car. “Safe travels, Cumpare.” 

			
Roberts Jr. righted himself, got behind the wheel, and began pulling out, leaving a trail of dust in his wake and all over Maria. Having just been humiliated by a man who didn’t look like he had all his marbles, he called out, “I’ll be back! Don’t you worry about that!” 

			
Maria understood part of what he’d threatened and threw a stone at the car, aiming for his head, and since she had an arm like a real Dead Eye Dick, she beaned that reporter good. 

			
“Butta gazz!” she yelled. It was her way of saying “Goodbye.” 

			
But “goodbye” was not in his dictionary. “I’ll be back” sure was though. 

			
The ranch hands who’d heard the kerfuffle had run out of the corral ready for a fight, but they instead stood back and let Austin have his minute. By the time the car finally pulled away, the hands were applauding Austin like he’d just won the bronc-riding contest at the rodeo. They clapped him on the back, saying things like “Good job, kid!” and “That was tellin’ him!” None of the men had ever said kind things to him before, so he blushed and said the most American thing he could think of: “Aw shucks, fellers.”

			
Walter, never one to miss a chance to let loose with one of the crazy sayings he’d learned on cattle drives, shook Austin’s hand, and declared, “Iffin that feller’s brains was dynamite, he wouldn’t have enough to blow his nose.” Nobody knew what the hell he was talking about, but they all laughed anyway.

			
So, no, the girls’ story never made it to the papers, even though they sure did like the notion of being like Annie Oakley and Calamity Jane, so they took up the roles for themselves. Black Bill even carved toy guns for them out of wood so they could pretend to be those rough-and-tumble cowgals. 

			
Even though she hoped she’d seen the end of it, the tale of Senora Barbera’s actions that day caught on like wildfire across a dry prairie. Maybe it was spread by the leaky-mouthed ranch hands, or maybe it was spread by Robert Roberts Jr. himself. 

			
Either way, people talking was exactly what she did not want. The less people knew about her family, the stills that were their lifeblood, and her husband’s whereabouts, the better. Not that she had any idea of her husband’s whereabouts anyway, but still. 

			
And the story about Blue? The rumors after the incident made the beast sound like one of those werewolves in the novels all the cowpokes read—those who could read anyway. If guns and crazy “Eyeties” weren’t enough to keep strangers away, talk of werewolves surely would be. Or so Maria thought. 

			
And more importantly, whether the townsfolk knew it or not, the Barberas also had the protection of the bigger “family” now—the Carlinos.

			
Even though Maria felt safer as part of the Carlino organization (especially with hair-trigger Mariano gone), she was still afraid that the law would find their stills, or that her sons would be ambushed by the rival La Dona family, shot by a rogue bootlegger, cattle rustler, or arrested by the prohibition agents who loved nothing better than finding and killing Italian bootleggers. The West was never as wild as it became after Colorado went dry. Kansas, North Dakota, and Iowa had been dry since the 1880s, but they weren’t full of indentured Italians who knew how to brew and how to stew. 

			
Maria liked to comfort herself with the thought that bandits had roamed the hills of Sicily too. Wasn’t everybody always scared of being killed, squeezed by the Black Hand, or robbed by the outlaws in the old country? Wasn’t the law itself to be feared everywhere? 

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 24 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 24 –

			
Return of the Range Rover 

			
Barbera Ranch, Colorado 

			
September 1921 

			
The marriage of Callie and Charlie and the business arrangement it brought had solidified the pact with the Carlinos, sure, but despite warnings from Don Vito, the war between the La Donas, the Barberas, and the Carlinos kept heating up. It put them all in as much danger as any raid by the feds. Maria worried every day until her boys came home. Well, her boys and Mickey, who rode the range and also rode shotgun on the trucks carrying the booze when necessary. The young woman had her own Tommy gun and wasn’t afraid to use it. 

			
They all knew Mariano, wherever he was, would have to be blind or dead not to see that wars were raging and threatening everything he’d built. 

			
One day, five months after the flood, Mariano came riding back to the ranch like nothing had happened. He had lost Cora-Lee, but he’d be Goddamned if he was going to lose his property. He imagined the whole dang place had gone to rack-and-ruin without him. It hadn’t.

			
Instead, he found that, during the time he had gone missing, Joe and Mickey had taken charge of the cattle, and Peter was managing the ranch hands. Maria? She was running the bootleg in partnership with the Carlino men. Damn. In fact, she was overseeing every single thing. 

			
It never occurred to him that the Carlinos would think that Zia Maria was a whole helluva lot more capable than Ziu Mariano. When left to her own devices, Maria had kept a steady hand and watched every penny. Truly, they all just wished the bastard had stayed gone. 

			
“Your mama’s got more guts than you can hang on a fence post,” Charlie told his wife. If it was possible for Callie to love Charlie more than she already did, that remark would have done it. Not only was he complimenting her mother, but for a man to believe a woman could run things, well, “You’re the bee’s knees, Charlie,” she told him, using the jazzy American expression he had taught her. He then said—and she wasn’t to tell anyone—that his father had told him he preferred dealing with Maria in all matters of business. 

			
In fact, the whole damn lot of them were doing just fine without Marian the Barbarian, a nickname that Don Vito had always found disgusting and offensive. But Mariano had left his family and his responsibilities to go looking, as everyone suspected, for a puttana. Maybe the name did fit him after all. 

			
Back before he went missing, Vito would tell him, “Mariano, we are men of honor—civilized men, not barbarians.” 

			
But Mariano didn’t know the difference anymore. He had killed those Baldwin-Felts detectives out of honor. He had earned honor the hard way—on the field of burned women and children. 

			
Even though they all knew that was true, Maria also knew it was the day he’d lost his soul forever. 

			
Mariano had expected that, upon his return, he’d be greeted like a long-gone king arriving home after a battle to restore order to his kingdom. Instead, he found that the ranch, the cattle, the bootleg, the distribution, and the deal with the Carlino family were running smooth as a baby’s behind. The kingdom was just fine.

			
Nobody needed him, and the Carlinos did not even come to pay respects when he returned. Mariano was in a rage. 

			
Not that it took much to get him riled up to begin with. One night, he’d got to drinking his own bootleg and grabbed Maria, shoving her down on the bed, ready to take what was rightfully his. 

			
“Mariano,” she cried, managing to squeeze out some tears. “Va’ e fatti’na passiata! I have the cancer. Down below!” He was so shocked that he stopped attempting to rape her. She got up, told him it was “catchy” and turned her back to him. He thought it was out of shame; it was actually to keep him from seeing her laughing. 

			
“Chi voi diri?”—What do you mean? Then, “If you die, who will do the bookkeeping and make my food?” 

			
The more he went on about his own needs, in spite of believing she had cancer and would suffer and die, the more of a kick she got out of pushing the lie. 

			
“Non è il tipo di cancro di cui muori, marcisce solo il pene dell’uomo.”—No, she didn’t think she had the kind of cancer that would kill her, but it would rot his penis if they had marital relations…unless he already had it. Then she said that, of course, she’d still perform her marital duties with him because he was her husband, after all. 

			
The whole thing made Mariano crazy as an unwound horse. Not only was her disease depriving him of sex, but he also then got to wondering who she had gotten the cancer from. So, he did what he always did: He shook her, but then stopped a second later, afraid that even touching her could give him the cancer. 

			
Towering over her, he demanded to know who she had been loving up while he was off heroically trying to find—

			
“Who, dear?” she cut in. “Cui?”

			
He stopped there, and after a lot of hemming and hawing, came up with: “Quannu ciccava i nostri figghi Firenze e Clara.”—When I was looking for Flo and Clara. 

			
Maria had to keep from smacking him, because that lie was as clear as the nose on his face. The fact that she was ready to smack him in the face even surprised her.

			
Mariano knew she knew he was lying, so instead of trying to sell it, he changed course, puffed up his chest, and went back to threatening—the skill he was best at. 

			
“Prima ammazzu a tia, e poi ammazzu a iddu!”—First, I’ll kill you. Then I’ll kill him! 

			
“U facisti,” she said, wiping a fake tear from her eye. She went on in Italian: “The doctor said I got it from picking up and washing your underwear after you had sex with your prostitute in town.” 

			
Mariano immediately grabbed his man part as though it was about to fall off, checking it the way men check their hair when they know they’re going bald. Did it have the cancer too? “Am I going to die from rotted cugghiuna? Mincha!”

			
Maria just shrugged and let him stew, pretending to look sad for him. 

			
Then Mariano remembered Cora-Lee. Maybe she didn’t leave him and run away after all. Maybe she caught the down-belows cancer, and it had killed her. What a relief. 

			
But wait. Fangul! No. Cora-Lee could never have given him the dirty disease. She was clean. She took baths every week. What a cruel fate Maria’s God had cursed him with. 

			
Joe and Peter heard the argument behind the bedroom door. They knew what it was about, although they couldn’t hear the specifics. They loved their mama but were stuck. “Isn’t it a man’s right to take what is his when he wants to?” Peter asked without expecting an answer.

			
“Not if the woman is our mama,” Joe answered. “She has her own way of doing things.”

			
“Truer words were never said, brother,” Peter laughed. “I’ll bet she don’t even have no cancer.”

			
“That’s a sure bet, definitely a sure bet,” Joe said, and they walked away from the door knowing their mother was safe, not just from cancer but also from her poisonous husband. 

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

Contents
		

	
	
		

			
Contents

			
Author’s Note

			
1.     The Feral Baby

			
2.     Witch’s Brew

			
3.     Big Love in a Small World 

			
4.     Promises 

			
5.     Passages 

			
6.     The Actuality of Reality 

			
7.     Big Sea, Big Lies

			
8.     Beast on Beast 

			
9.     Strike a Blow 

			
10.   How to Kill WOPs, Wogs, Women, Wetbacks, and Wee Ones

			
11.   Resist. Defend. Defeat.

			
12.   Purgatory/Heaven/Hell

			
13.   Blue’s Moon 

			
14.   Wolf Bait 

			
15.   Big Boot 

			
16.   Season of the Witch 

			
17.   Carried. Nation. 

			
18.   The Great Escape 

			
19.   Rivers Over Flo

			
20.   The Missing Whore 

			
21.   Little Girls Lost 

			
22.   A Time to Mourn, A Time to Dance 

			
23.   Don’t Read All About It

			
24.   Return of the Range Rover 

			
25.   The Donna-Uomo in the Rancho Uomo

			
26.   One-Eye Walnut Jack

			
27.   KKK Meet M.A.F.I.A.

			
28.   Dancin’ in the Moonlight

			
29.   The Big Bang

			
30.   Deader than Kelsey’s Nuts

			
31.   Love and Death and Love

			
32.   Baxter Bridge Over Troubled Waters

			
33.   What Do We Do About Carlotta?

			
34.   Oh No Little Flo!

			
35.   You Pay the Hit with a Hit

			
36.   The Get Out Get Together

			
37.   The Double Bar A Double Take

			
38.   The Blue Blues

			
39.   Trains, Plains, and Automobiles

			
40.   Grand to Not So Great

			
41.   Brook-a-Land

			
42.   Double Or Nuthin’ Leaves Nuthin’

			
43.   A Panelle for Your Thoughts

			
44.   No School Like Old School

			
45.   Cash In, Cashed Out

			
46.   Daughters of the Italian American Revolution

			
47.   Boys Will Be Men

			
48.   Only The Good Die Young

			
49.   Nobody Is Better Than You. Nobody.

			
50.   Days as Black as Night

			
51.   Unloved, Unwanted, Unhoused

			
52.   Ruby’s Lips

			
53.   Loss and Found

			
54.   Return of the Ruby Rover

			
55.   Home on the Range

			
56.   Skin in the Game 

			
57.   The Peabody Body

			
58.   His Heart Over Flo-eth

			
59.   Mickey, Should I Marry?

			
60.   Days That Will Live in Infamy

			
Epilogue

			
Acknowledgments

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 25 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 25 –

			
The Donna-Uomo in the Rancho Uomo

			
Barbera Ranch, Colorado 

			
The Following Day

			
Mickey, who’d taken to sleeping in the bunkhouse as one of the boys, had heard only Peter’s first remark about a man’s right, so she punched him in the gut. He gave her a shiner; she gave him a bigger one, and that’s how he got that split eyebrow. 

			
Right after the dust-up, they got up off the floor and tended to each other’s wounds.

			
Peter had grown up and had become a very handsome young man—he looked like that movie star, Clark Gable, whose picture his sisters had cut out of The Pueblo Times. The scar didn’t do anything but make him look more rugged. As for Mickey, it didn’t matter how tightly she wound that cloth around her bosom to make herself flat as a boy or how much she dressed in men’s clothes. It didn’t matter either that she wore a derby or sombrero hat or hid her hair under them. Nope. No matter what she did to ugly herself up, she was still a looker. 

			
The ranch hands knew to stay away from her. They weren’t afraid her brothers would shoot their eyes out—they were afraid Mickey would. 

			
Mickey did not want to, but she had no choice but to move back into the house. Her mother had told her that her father would kill her if he knew she was sleeping in the bunkhouse. He didn’t scare her any longer, but there was no sense in turning up the heat under an already simmering pot.

			
Mariano was so afraid of cugghiuna cancer that he often just popped into the bunkhouse to sleep or take his meals. The last thing anybody wanted was for him to find out Mickey was sleeping there, not with men, but as a man. 

			
Maria knew—they all knew—that Mariano would have to believe he had taken back control of the ranch, or he’d go on a bender and ruin everything they’d built in his absence. 

			
Respect was paid to him, and they all acted like he was boss, but they went about keeping the crops, the livestock, and the bootlegging humming along same as it had without him. 

			
With not much to do at the ranch, plus with Mrs. Bianchi’s gone, and Maria having the cancer, Mariano got to cogitating about how he needed sex. There were no decent whores around since the flood, and those difurmatu—the orphans—Maria had taken in weren’t up to his standards. They were old enough for sex—fourteen or so—but they disgusted him, what with their knock-kneed, rickets legs. 

			
So, one night, Mariano walked into the bedroom that Mickey shared with her little sisters. He’d teach Mickey what a real man was like. She woke to see him trying to climb on top of her. She grabbed her gun and fired a warning shot into the ceiling that just missed Mariano’s head. 

			
“Puttana del cazzo!” he screamed, trying to wrestle the gun away from her.

			
He was drunk and she was strong, so she shoved it right against his temple and cocked the hammer. “Mi? Si jò sugnu puttana, tu purpu sì.”—If I’m a whore, then you are homosexual. She was letting him know that, for all intents and purposes, she was a man. 

			
“Get out!” she spat. “And never come near me again!” 

			
She kept the gun aimed at his head as he jumped off her. The other girls sat up in their beds, shaking with fear, the covers pulled up to their eyes.

			
When Mariano turned to leave, Maria was standing in the doorway, her own long gun locked and loaded. He mumbled something about how Mickey had tried to seduce him or some dumb lie. With her rifle at his back, she walked him out to the barn to sleep it off. Before she left, she said, calm as can be, in her deep Sicilian: “You touch one of my daughters again and I won’t be merciful.”

			
Then Maria closed the padlock on the outside of the barn door. The final humiliation. After that, Mariano couldn’t say anything about it, but it simmered in his brain.

			
Mickey moved back to the bunkhouse the next day, and the ranch hands were as happy as a bunch of hogs in mud. Mickey was better than most of them at roping, riding, and wrestling, although if her papa knew she was wrestling with any of the bunkhouse boys, he would have shot them deader than Old Henry Clay.

			
She also was the best poker player of any woman they’d ever seen. Hell, she was better than any man they’d ever seen—even if she’d already drunk them under the table. 

			
Maria didn’t care whether Mickey liked boys, girls, or frogs, as long as she didn’t do the worst thing possible—move away from home like Angelina had done when she married that city slicker, fat Arthur Mauro. Panzut! 

			
Thing is, Mickey didn’t know what the hell to do about the feelings she had. She was most comfortable with the bunkhouse boys and could spend every day and every night riding the range, roping steer, and sleeping under the stars next to Black Bill and Yellow Fly. But she didn’t have any yearnings for them in that way. They didn’t seem to have any feelings in that way for her either.

			
Problem was, she was so good looking that every time a wedding, baptism, or confirmation came up among the families and she had to put on a lace dress and wear ribbons in her hair, the boys in the county would go crazy and come around to try to see her.

			
Even though she never paid them any mind, she was about to become the living proof of the term, “fatal beauty” anyway.

			
It all began when Billy La Dona saw her in church one Sunday. She was miserable wearing a dress for a christening after mass. Her scowling face didn’t hide the fact that she looked like a beauty queen. The fact that Billy was from the hated enemy La Dona family didn’t stop him from falling straight away in love with her. 

			
He began staring at her across the pews, thinking Romeo and Juliet. She felt his stare and glared back, thinking, You’re barking up the wrong tree, feller.

			
Risking hell from his own father for daring to set foot on enemy land, a few days later, Billy rode all the way to the Barbera ranch carrying presents for her: a mirror wrapped in paper and tied up with string and a bag of coffee. These showed his serious intent. 

			
Cranky Helen happened to be outside and thought he might be there for her and actually graced him with one of her very rare smiles. But Billy looked right past her and said, “Pardon, ma’am,” which stopped her cold. 

			
“Ma’am?” she growled, right back to her old self, “You’re older than me. Gidrul! What do you want?” He explained he was there to call on Mickey and asked if she was at home.

			
She laughed in his face, sneering. “Just because a chicken has wings don’t mean it can fly, mister.” 

			
He looked confused. “You mean another feller’s courtin’ her?” 

			
“Yeah, that’s what I mean,” snickered Helen. 

			
Billy, who was the deadliest if not the brightest of the La Donas—which is why the Barberas all called him Billy Imbecillé—had no idea what she meant. But not wanting to waste that long ride, the fancy mirror, or coffee, he offered them to Helen instead, asking, “Are you bein’ courted too?” 

			
 

			
Helen took the packages and said, “No.”

			
He got excited until she said, “I’d rather eat my own feet than let you court me. Now ride on outta here.” 

			
As he rode out, he spotted Peter on his horse. Peter’s first instinct was to draw his gun. Billy’s first instinct was to get the hell out of there as fast as he could. 

			
Highly insulted, humiliated, and shamed to his core by “that Helen girl” and then by Peter, the whole thing added fuel to the fire of the feud between the bootlegging families. Not that Billy could tell his family he had tried to court a Barbera gal. They’d have shot him themselves. Instead, he held it in and planned his revenge—his vendetta—in secret. One that would destroy everything.

			
When Helen told Mickey what happened, they laughed like they were about to die. Mickey took the coffee; Helen kept the mirror.

			
Mickey didn’t like boys, and she didn’t like boys to like her, but boys just didn’t get it. So, she took a pair of shears and cut her beautiful, long, dark-brown hair to just above her ears. Maria slapped her own head when she saw it and told her to wear a hat when she was around her father, or he’d whip her for sure. 

			
“Let ’im try,” Mickey said, harkening back to when he had last pulled a gun on him. 

			
Thing is, though, Mickey being Mickey was becoming a problem. It was not uncommon for men to “be” with other men because there were over a hundred men to every woman in Colorado. But for women to be with women? That wasn’t so common, so it was not as accepted. 

			
Most men couldn’t understand why a lady would choose another lady when there were so many fellas around to choose from. 

			
For Mariano in particular, who had seen plenty of that sort of thing down at Mrs. Bianchi’s among her fancy ladies, the idea that one of his daughters could behave like that was driving him mad. He even managed to rationalize it in his head that her “proclivity” was the real reason he had tried to climb on her. He was just trying to “fix” her. 

			
He would not have a man for a daughter. He would not. He’d marry her off, that’s what he’d do. But who’d take her? Then he got an idea.

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 26 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 26 –

			
One-Eye Walnut Jack

			
Barbera Ranch, Colorado 

			
October 1921

			
You didn’t have to be smart to see things weren’t going Mariano’s way. It was all the fault of that puttana, that Cora-Lee, he’d think, and then, in the blink of an eye, he’d change his mind and practically elevate her to sainthood. 

			
Whatever she was, he understood that if he hadn’t been so hooked on her, he wouldn’t have taken all that time to go looking for her. She caused him to lose respect not only in his own family but among the Mafia families too. Cora-Lee had ruined everything. He loved her madly and hated her passionately. 

			
Before the flood, he had always thought of her as just a whore who wasn’t important to him—except for business and sex.

			
He’d even joke to his poker pals at Miss Cora-Lee’s Tea Parlour, “Once you’ve eaten rice, you get up from the table right away!” In other words, once he had his fill of her in bed, he’d not think about her again. How wrong he was. 

			
Worse, while he’d been gone searching like a wild man for the woman he thought was so forgettable, his wife had become the boss of both the ranch and the bootlegging operation. She had even earned the respect of Don Vito himself.

			
Worse, Maria had allowed his daughter, eighteen-year-old Michelina, to turn into a masculu-fimmina—man-woman. Everything had gone crazy without his heavy hand. He demanded that Mickey stop dressing like a man, but even she—his own daughter—would brush him aside and tell him it was just part of her job.

			
“If you want the bootlegging and cattle business to run smooth, I have to look the part,” she’d say and ride off to meet the other ranch hands.

			
Rispondere in malo modo—disrespectful answers—he thought. Always disrespectful answers. As he’d heard the cowboys say, it was time to take the reins.

			
“Michelina Mascula!” he called out one morning, using the worst word he could think of, to summon his daughter into the barn where she was ordering the cowboys to either get saddled up or hop in the car to get out to the stills. 

			
While Mariano waited for Mickey to come, he took what you’d call a survey of the cowpokes going about their business. He was there to pick a husband for Mickey. Not like he could try to marry off another one of his daughters to a Carlino. His sister-in-law, Cologera, hated that handsome Charlie had been made to marry stick-figure Callie. But at least Callie was female.

			
He knew that most of the ranch hands would bolt before getting tied to one woman for life. He thought maybe Black Bill would agree to it if he offered him a patch of land, but then he remembered that he’d heard talk that Bill had a wife somewhere—just like Maria’s father had once heard about him. Besides, Bill was too valuable a ranch hand to risk aggravating. The very thought of marrying Mickey might well drive him off for good. That was enough to scratch that cowpoke off the list of potential husbands.

			
Then there was Giovanni Arcuri, Filippo’s nephew, who called himself Jack in the American way. He might make a good match. Filippo owed Mariano for taking his dumb lug relative on. Who else would put up with Jack? Mariano knew Jack didn’t have a wife, so that was good. Mickey was a pain in the ass, and Jack was a big, ugly guy who didn’t much get along with anybody. He was always starting fights in the bunkhouse. It was a perfect solution.

			
Jack was strong as an ox and not afraid of nothing and nobody. Hell, Mariano thought, he was just the right man to make a woman out of his manly daughter. Plus, he’d get Jack and Mickey out of the bunkhouse by building them a cabin on the property. Jack wouldn’t be able to start fights with the other ranch hands every night, whom he always accused of cheating at cards, and Mickey would stop embarrassing him in front of the other families. She’d stop being manly. All she needed, he knew, was to stop riding the range and start riding a cowboy. 

			
Or as he heard his son Joe say to the unshucked cowpokes, “Hey kid—time to get your cannoli in a holey.”

			
He yelled for the men in the barn to hurry up and get the hell out. “Arcuri—you stay.” So, Jack hung around, figuring Mariano was either gonna give him the boot or make him do something he didn’t want to do. 

			
It turned out to be both.

			
Mariano told him straight out that he had to marry Mickey or go work for the La Donas, which was not really a choice because they’d kill him if he ever showed his face at their place.

			
Not being the most subtle of men, Jack took his hat off, scratched his head, and answered that while he sure would like to get married, Mickey wasn’t the marrying kind. Then added, “If you know what I mean.”

			
Mariano grabbed him by the collar and said, “No, I don’t know what you mean.”

			
Jack laughed. “Well sir, then you are the only one in this whole damned ranch who don’t know what I mean.” 

			
They were scuffling with one another when Mickey walked in. “What the hell is goin’ on here?” she wanted to know.

			
Jack picked up his hat off the ground, rolled it around, and answered, “Your father wants us to get hitched, but I tol’ him you ain’t the marrying kind—and you know what I mean.”

			
“You are right about that. I am not the marrying kind, and iffin’ I was, it sure wouldn’t be with you!”

			
Mariano knew it wouldn’t be easy to get these two hitched, but the way he figured it, they had no choice. He’d throw them both out, and they’d never survive the winter.

			
Mickey yelled and stomped her feet. Jack said he’d rather marry a rattler. And so it was settled. They’d get married. 

			
Mickey ran like a madwoman to her mama who was picking vegetables in the garden. “I will never marry Jack or any man!” she declared. 

			
Maria took her by the shoulders and said, “You have no choice. You can’t stay unmarried. I was already married three years with babies at your age. But you can do what you want when no one’s looking. Understand?”

			
“No!” Mickey said. “I’ll never let that beast mount me. Ever!” Maria licked her fingers, wiped the dirt off Mickey’s face and said, “Michelina, amuri meu. You will do your wifely duties and then do what you want when he’s away. Capisti?”

			
“I won’t marry him. I won’t!” 

			
Maria just shook her head. The girl would have to learn that she couldn’t always have her way. Yes, she allowed her to dress and act like a man, but she would not allow her to stay unmarried. Maria handed Mickey a burlap sack of vegetables. 

			
Mickey followed her inside and stomped her mud-caked work boots on the wooden floor. Maria took her by the shoulders. “Me’ figghia, Giovanni is not the smartest man on the ranch and, well,” she covered her mouth to keep from showing her smile, “you are.” 

			
For the first time, Mickey knew for sure that her mother knew who she really was. And she didn’t judge her for it. She only wanted to help her get through it. 

			
So, the women of the ranch began to make wedding preparations while Mickey kept to her duties as a ranch hand manager. Everybody thought she’d accepted her fate like the good girl she probably was under all that hell raising she did. Then, a few days before the wedding, Mickey proved them wrong and shaved off her hair in a fit of fury. 

			
“Dang,” said Walter when her hat fell off while she was roping a steer. “Did you take your head for a shave at the barber shop?” 

			
Mickey, who loved all the hands, thought that was about the funniest thing she’d ever heard and punched him in the arm for good measure.

			
On the big day, when her mother tried to put the veil on her head to cover the stubble, she had no hair to pin it on. Mickey said, “I told you I wouldn’t wear it.” And then to put a fine point on it, added, “I ain’t some virgin goin’ to slaughter in that thing,” and tossed it on the ground. 

			
Maria, trying to lighten the terrible situation joked, “So you are not a virgin?” Mickey laughed but still refused to put it on.

			
Angelina, who’d come back from New York for the wedding and was so tall she towered over all the others, came up with an idea.

			
She told Callie to fetch the bright, white cowboy hat that her husband Charlie had donned for the big doings. Charlie wasn’t eager to part with it, so Angelina had to step in and beg him.

			
Mickey allowed her sister to put the ten-gallon on her head, but it sunk below her eyes, so Angelina had to stuff it with newspaper to hold it up. She then tucked the top of the veil under the hat so that the rest trailed down her back. 

			
Somehow, they got her to the church, where Mickey refused to take her father’s arm as she stomped down the aisle to the altar where her not-beloved was waiting. Jack had cleaned up pretty good, she thought, but she wouldn’t have cared if he’d bathed in a tub of lavender soap. 

			
Father Angeletto, who had seen pretty much everything in that Wild West town, was so disgusted when he saw the bride in a man’s cowboy hat that he made a face.

			
A couple of folks in the pews started snickering, but Mickey turned around and looked at every single person, giving each one the bad eye. They stopped laughing when she took the hat right off and handed it to her father. The veil slipped off her stubble and floated down to the altar like a dead spirit at Mickey’s feet. Mickey tore off the paper ring that was supposed to hold the hat in place. The folks in the church nearly fell off their pews at the sight of the bald bride.

			
And Jack? He was a man in shock. What the hell? His bride was bald as Old Chance the stagecoach driver. Balder. At least Old Chance had sideburns. The church grew quiet as a church mouse—and even the church mouse was probably struck dumb at the sight.

			
When it came time for the priest to ask if she’d take this man in holy matrimony she said, “Hell no!” and everybody started laughing. 

			
Mariano, who was standing at the altar with them, answered for her. “She do!” he said. 

			
Jack wasn’t as brave and said, “I do too.”

			
Father Angeletto wasn’t sure they were really married, but considering half the folks were carrying pistòli, he pronounced them man and wife anyway.

			
“You may kiss the bride,” he uttered. 

			
Mickey pushed Jack’s face away and said, “No you may not, mister.”

			
Before the bride had a chance to stomp back ahead of her groom on her way out, Charlie scrambled up to the altar to pick up his white hat so it wouldn’t get stepped on.

			
The barn had been cleaned out, and paper streamers were hanging, and there were wildflower bouquets in jars on every table. The Carlinos and friends and relatives from town and beyond were invited with food spread out over many tables. The wine and booze flowed like…well, like it was legal. 

			
Peter and some of the boys, whom they’d finally taught to play Sicilian tunes, provided music—from the tarantella to the waltz—and an Italian version of a square dance. Mickey sat on a bench and sulked. Jack, who was no dancer, got to dancing up a storm, excited by the prospect of the honeymoon night ahead. 

			
“Your husband’s dancin’ like there’s no tomorrow,” said Flo, who was done up in ribbons and lace. 

			
“If he keeps it up,” Mickey answered, “that dumb ass critter will have no tomorrow because I’ll be obliged to kill him.” 

			
Little Flo laughed, which made her sidekick Clara laugh, but little as they were, they knew their sister meant it. “He ain’t the best dancer in the world,” Clara added.

			
“He ain’t good at nothing,” Mickey added, shooing the girls away.

			
Antonella saw how miserable Mickey looked and went over and sat beside her on the bench to try to comfort her. 

			
When the band struck up a dreamy waltz, Mickey turned to her and asked, “Wanna dance?” 

			
Antonella blinked and said, “We shouldn’t do that.” Mickey looked annoyed and then tried to take her hand. Antonella gently pulled it away. “I’ll get you some food,” she suggested. 

			
“Get me some booze,” Mickey answered. 

			
When it came time to leave, the newly-hitched couple headed outside, Mickey’s bald head shining in the moonlight. The Model T had been decorated with old cans hanging off the back bumper like these two were a normal, happy pair.

			
When Jack tried to help Mickey get into the Model T, she looked at him in confusion. “Do you think I cain’t get into a car by myself? What the hell is wrong with you?”

			
Mickey got in the open-top car, slammed the door, and spotted Antonella among the well-wishers. She waved her over and when Antonella got to the car, Mickey squeezed her hand. The tiny young woman pulled it away but before doing so, Mickey felt her give it the smallest squeeze back.

			
When Mickey and Jack got to their new cabin, Mickey proceeded to light the oil lamps and then she went ahead and stripped down naked—shameless in front of her new hubby. Jack was thrilled…until she pulled on her work pants, shirt, and boots. Jack stood there shocked. What the hell was going on, he wondered.

			
“There’s work to be done,” Mickey announced heading for the door. When he pointed out that it was dark outside, she said, “Work on a ranch never stops.” 

			
So Jack decided to take matters into his own hands. He grabbed her and with his arms around her, puckered up and made the giant mistake of saying, “How ’bout givin’ your honey some sugar?”

			
Mickey tried shoving him away, but he was such a big lug that even she, with her big muscles couldn’t much budge him. When she finally managed to wiggle free, she said, “I’m goin’ to the outhouse. Don’t follow me.”

			
After twenty minutes or so, Jack, worried that she’d run away, trudged over to the outhouse. It had started raining something fierce, so when he knocked and there was no answer, he opened the door.

			
There she was, sitting on the commode where she did her best thinking, with her pants down around her boots.

			
“Go away! Can’t you see I’m doin’ my business?” She slammed the door with her foot. 

			
After standing there in the rain, Jack finally opened the door again and dragged her out and back to the house kicking and screaming. When they got back inside, soaking wet, he tried kissing her again. She picked up a knife and cut him a small scratch. Jack jumped to the other side of the room. “Dammit, darlin’!” he said. “It’s time you stopped all this fussin’ and give me what a man wants.”

			
“What I want is for you to keep your damned hands to yourself.”

			
“Oh honey, why don’t you just behave yourself?” he said, grinning like he was enjoying sparring with his wildcat wife.

			
“Did you just tell me to behave myself?” 

			
Jack (stupidly) nodded and rubbed his hands together in happy anticipation of what he figured was about to happen.

			
Instead, his new bald-headed bride grabbed a walnut off the table and flung it at him like she was Red Faber, taking his left eye damn near out.

			
Jack fell to the floor, screaming in pain. Mickey grabbed one of her newly embroidered moppinas, told him to hold it over his eye, hopped into the car, and drove as fast as she could back to the homestead.

			
She woke her mother, told her what happened, and said she needed help. Maria—furious that her daughter wounded her new husband on their first night together—told Lucia to grab the medical supplies she had in the kitchen and told Joe to fetch Doc Dawson, who was probably still drunk from the wedding.

			
Maria tended to the eye as best as she could, but by the time Doc Dawson arrived, wobbly as a newborn calf, he pronounced it too far gone to be fixed. 

			
The bridegroom was immediately nicknamed One-Eye Walnut Jack by the crew.

			
Mickey felt really bad about blinding Jack and all, so she came to an agreement with him. They could have sex once a week on Sunday, or, if she was unavailable, then on Thursday. But he was never to bother her on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday, or Saturday, or she might be inclined to take his other eye out.

			
While it wasn’t the best arrangement in the world, Jack was happy that he was at least getting some once a week, whereas before he was married, he got it none a week. He couldn’t drive cattle the way he used to—too many calves ran off on the side of his bad eye—so he learned to be a great one-eyed shooter. Some of the men took to calling him “Dead-Eye Jack,” which he figured sounded better than One-Eye Walnut Jack.

			
He was banned from poker though, because he had become more convinced than ever that everyone was cheating him now that he couldn’t see who was doing what on his bad-eye side.

			
As luck would have it, and crazy as it was, Mickey found herself pregnant. And in spite of her mother and sisters begging her to quit riding, roping, and wrestling while in her delicate condition, she kept it up, and nine months later gave birth to a ten-and-a-half pound, healthy baby boy. They called him Filippo in honor of Jack’s uncle. Mickey immediately nicknamed him “Flip.” The name stuck to him like skeeters on flypaper.

			
Jack was thrilled with his new son, and so was Mickey. Not because she was ready to settle down, nurse a baby, and start knitting. No way. And it wasn’t only because she could get right back to work either, although that did make her happy. Mostly she was happy because she was able to convince her mother to let Antonella come and live with them. 

			
“That way, she can take care of Flip, do the cookin’ and cleanin’ while I’m out with the cattle.” Maria knew exactly what her daughter was up to, but as long as Antonella was OK with it, and only if Antonella was OK with it, she wouldn’t refuse.

			
So, the tiny, bent young woman moved in, cared for the baby, did the cooking, the cleaning, and the mending. But that’s not all she did.

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 27 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 27 –

			
KKK Meet M.A.F.I.A.

			
Trinidad, Colorado 

			
1921–1923 

			
In 1920, when the 18th Amendment passed, making booze illegal in the whole of the United States, the Sicilians had to up the game they’d already been playing. While most of the country had been sitting on their asses, the Sicilians had been putting a fine point on their bootleg booze. By the time the rest of the country went dry (except for Connecticut and Rhode Island), the Sicilian bootleggers knew how to brew it, sell it, hide it, distribute it, and keep it all in the family. The government had inadvertently given them four long years to perfect their craft.

			
Still, when the 18th Amendment actually passed, no one—from the winos to the regular joes to the swells—could believe the bad news. The Sicilian bootleggers meantime—from the Carlinos to the Barberas to the La Donas—couldn’t believe the good news. They’d been brewing up a storm and praying for that day to come. It was vindication for the years they’d slaved in the mines, even though it would never make up for the family and friends who’d been slaughtered like swine. 

			
The rich Anglos wanted booze, and now they had to rely on the Italians, whom they despised, to get it. 

			
Supplying the whole country with illegal booze became much bigger than most families could handle, so Don Vito put out the word that it was time for them all to cooperate with one another and to organize. It was the only way to give their families the kind of protection that folks outside their world would never understand. 

			
As for the bootlegging? They had provided the people of Colorado what they wanted and, as Charlie liked to say, “We give all of the people what they want all of the time.” Callie thought he sounded very Lincoln-like. 

			
Colorado’s Sicilian bootlegging families did their best to keep the feds in the dark about what the hell they were dealing with. The feds were so sure the Italian bootleggers were Black Handers that they put up wanted notices of men who weren’t even involved in their operation at all. 

			
The families loved that because the self-styled “Black Hand” thugs were usually nothing more in those parts than unorganized teppisti—hoodlums—who tried to scare other Italians out of their hard-earned dough. They weren’t bootleggers or Mafia. They were just idiots. 

			
If the feds found one of these clowns first and cut him down, so much the better. They were saving the families the trouble of knocking off the bad seeds. And they didn’t even need to put out contracts. It was so easy it was almost embarrassing. The more they confused the feds the better. 

			
As bootleg booze became mother’s milk for millions of people, the Barberas and the rest of the Sicilian bootleggers moved up in the underworld. They got into national booze distribution with a new division: smuggling primo liquor out of Canada. 

			
How in hell did those ignorant, Guinea bootleggers keep growing right under their noses, the feds wanted to know. It had to be stopped. But catching these moonshiners was like trying to catch ghosts in a bag. 

			
The solution to several problems came like the miracle Maria had been praying for. Don Vito had found a way to make use of Mariano and get him out of the way so his wife and family could better run the business. He called Mariano to his home one day and explained that he wanted to send him to Denver to do a secret investigation. Carlino knew that before the once-respectable Mariano had gone to hell with drink and whoring, he’d had a good sense of things. He could always tell when things were about to go bad.

			
Before he had disappeared like a barrel of his own confiscated booze, Mariano had preached over and over to anyone who would listen that American law was not there to protect Italians but to exploit them, hang ’em, or shoot ’em. He was righter than rain. 

			
Don Vito told Mariano that he had found out the mayor of Denver, a man by the name of Benjamin Stapleton, was interfering in their business. “He’s more of a criminal than any of the bootleggers. He has no honor, no soul. You ever heard of the Ku Klux Klan? It’s a big, organized group of white Protestant men who are out to kill anyone who isn’t a white Protestant. They are the ones who got Stapleton elected. He belongs to them.” 

			
To pay the Klan back, he explained, Stapleton hired a Klansman as Chief of Police and then he deputized 125 Klansmen as cops and prohibition agents. “Soon, all of Colorado’s prohibition agents will be KKK, as they are called,” he warned. “I need you to find out everything so we can fight back.” 

			
Mariano was not surprised that a group of Protestant men wanted to kill them. “But how can I get their information when they would never trust one of us?” Mariano wanted to know. 

			
“This is how,” the Don said, and handed him a big wad of cash. “Go there, play poker, drink in the speakeasies, listen, learn. Find out what they are doing.” In other words, Mariano had to disappear. Again.

			
Which he did, sneaking out in the middle of the night. Maria and the family assumed he was off on a booze bender. Which he was, but this time someone else was paying for this cowboss to pony up to the bar.

			
It was the perfect job for him: boozing, whoring, gambling, bullshitting. 

			
The information Mariano sent back was so premium, though, Don Vito decided to call the heads of the various families to his home. Maria attended with Peter, who was supposed to do most of the talking for the family, even though she was the one calling the shots. It was unheard of for a woman to sit in among the men, but Maria excused it away. She said her missing husband was ill—which everyone took to mean he was on a bender—and Peter was learning the business, and she was just there to protect her family’s interests. 

			
Charlie, who loved his mother-in-law, still shook his head in amazement and said, “Chi paisi! Fimmini a tavula!”—What a country! Women at the table! 

			
When the group settled down, Charlie’s father explained why he had called them to his home: He had recently come into information. He never mentioned Mariano for fear there might be a traitor in their midst regarding the federal crackdown on their businesses.

			
The government had a new way to deal with—or more specifically kill—Sicilian bootleggers and had deputized Ku Klux Klansmen as prohibition agents. 

			
“La K cosa?”—the K thing?—asked one of the assembled men. 

			
Peter asked permission to answer the question. “The KKK are those men who hide behind white hoods and burn crosses in front of the houses of immigrants and colored folks.” 

			
Anthony Alonzo, who had been an attorney in the old country, added, “They hate us and say Italians should be deported because we brought what they call the ‘whore of Rome’ to America. That’s what they call our Catholic Church, ‘the whore!’ These men have no training, no honor, no soul. They just want to kill the colored, the immigrant, and the Catholic.” 

			
The local Klan, he explained, was led by a certain man called The High Exalted Cyclops of the Trinidad Klan. 

			
“He must have one eye in the middle of head,” one of them joked. “Maybe that’s why he wears a hood over his face!” Everybody started laughing—except for Don Vito. 

			
“You think this is funny?” the Don asked with that look in his eye that scared the hell out of most of those tough guys. “The time has come to be extra vigilant. These Ku Klux Klansmen now have a license to hunt us like wild game.” He warned that they could claim everyone they killed just happened to have an illegal still. 

			
He shook his head in disgust and put them on alert: “If these fake polizzia find your operation, they will wreck your stills, smash half your barrels, steal the other half, and rob you of all the cash you have on hand.” 

			
They stopped laughing. 

			
“And probably burn your house down. The government is paying them to murder us, our families, our businesses. Just like they did to the strikers. It is just that dangerous. And they aren’t even real G-men.”

			
Little Boy Frankie Parisi stood and asked, “With all due respect Don Vito, we all know that money talks. No?”

			
The Don shook his head. “You will be sorry if you try to bribe them. They’re scum. They’ll take the bribes and steal your goods anyway. They think we are pissuni ‘gnuranti—ignorant fish. Do not prove them right! But first, we need to stop killing each other if we ever hope to defeat them. You understand?” 

			
He meant that they themselves—the other Sicilian bootleggers—were creating as big a threat to their businesses as the feds and the Klan were. He warned them that this situation, now commonly called The Sugar Moon War, had to end. 

			
The Sugar Moon War was as real as South vs. North back in 1861, except this time, it was South vs. South. Sicilians vs. Sicilians.

			
Already shot-up Sicilian bodies were littering the fields and roads in Pueblo, Chicosa, and Trinidad like fallen, rotted apples. Some were killed in family feuds. Some were shot dead by deputized Klan prohis—who claimed the kills were caused by family feuds.

			
Now that so much money was at stake, even the slightest slight or the poaching of clients could—and had—become deadly. 

			
“We have the government to fight so we can’t be fighting each other,” the Don said banging his open palm on the table, which ricocheted around the room like a shotgun blast.

			
Then, to every man’s shock, Maria stood up. She was so tiny she could barely be seen behind all those derbies, ten-gallon hats, fedoras, and even a few top hats. The men all turned when she called for their attention. Even though they stared at her downright audacity, she said in her best English, which was colored over by her thick Sicilian accent, “We Barberas pledge our loyalty, Signor. We stand with you if you choose to make peace with the La Donas.” 

			
Don Vito nodded his head in approval, so she continued, but in Sicilian, speaking to all the assembled men. 

			
“Signori! We came to this America looking for a home and found ourselves without one, so you men fought your way out of the pit. The ’Merigaan say we are ignorant immigrants for fighting for our place here like they once did. We did not choose this life in America. America chose this life for us! 

			
“We are ’Merigaan too. We fought for a home, and we have one now. We cannot let them take it from us.” 

			
Then she paused and turned to look at the men around the room. “And we must stop trying to take it from each other. It makes us as bad as these—what do you call them?—Klanaman.” 

			
The men all nodded as Peter looked on as though his mother had lost her last marble. 

			
Moved by her talk, the men, one by one, stood up and clapped. She was so shocked that she flopped back down in her seat and saw that her son was among those standing and clapping. For her. 

			
“Grazzi, Signora Barbera. Grazzi,” Don Vito said. 

			
It wasn’t, he went on, just about the bootleg brew and the premium booze they smuggled out of Canada anymore. It was about the distribution of it to New York, Chicago, Kansas City, Boston, St. Louis, Miami, Seattle, San Francisco, and Detroit that was causing the latest problems. Wars were fought and people died securing and protecting routes and customers from poachers. The Carlino/La Dona feud that had started back in Sicily over something no one even remembered was blowing all the way the hell up here. 

			
Don Vito waved his arm around the room. “We all knew Pellegrino Scaglia. We all know he was assassinated while out making a delivery with his children!” he cried out, slamming his hand on the table again. 

			
He mentioned no names, but everyone believed it was a hit ordered by the La Dona family.

			
“Those cowards attacked a man with his own family in the cart. That can never be tolerated. The bullets lifted the boy out of the cart, and he fell under the wheels, crushed to death. Scaglia, my old friend, was a brave man, not a coward. He threw himself on top of his little daughter to protect her as he was being filled with lead. The child was found alive under her father’s corpse, drenched in his blood. 

			
“Because of those murders and our war against each other,” he continued, “the heads of the O’Banion outfit, Alphonse Capone, and that crooked lawyer George Remus are meeting this very night in Pittsburgh to try to settle our war! We could lose everything because we are killing each other.” 

			
Maria stood again and said, “Stamu facennu a nuiautri a stissa cosa chi ni fici cummattiri cu Rockefeller picchì a facia a nui.”—We now do to each other what we fought against Rockefeller for doing to us.—Money turns even our good men into thieves and killers.”

			
Before the meeting, Vito had told his sons privately that the La Donas would have to pay but not yet. “I like best the old French expression,” he said. “Avinnitta è nu piattu chi s’havi a sebbiri friddu.”—Revenge is a dish best served up cold. 

			
“How cold, Papa?” his son Sam had demanded. “How cold?”

			
“As cold as a corpse,” he had answered.

			
Even so, at that night’s meeting, Don Vito told the crowd he would call for a sit-down with La Donas. 

			
“What if they don’t agree?” asked Gaetano. 

			
“Si ‘voi a paci, priparati a guerra.”—If you wish for peace, be ready for war.

			
When the meeting ended and the men walked out into the Colorado night filled with so many stars there was hardly any space between them, Maria and Peter overheard Charlie joke to his father that Maria was a better “man” than her husband. No one knew Mariano was doing the Don’s work.

			
Don Vito stopped short. He wouldn’t have his son talk ill of his father-in-law. “Figgiu mei,” his father said, “Mariano was once a great man. Remember that. He lost much during the strike trying to get the mine workers a fair deal. That Goddamned strike…brought Italians nothing but death and misery. So, please, respect his memory.” 

			
Vito never made a mistake when talking, so Charlie figured his father had just admitted that he believed—or maybe hoped—that Mariano was dead. 

			
He was very wrong.

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 28 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 28 –

			
Dancin’ in the Moonlight

			
Pueblo and Back 

			
December 1922

			
All the women in the Barbera family, except for Mickey and Maria, had been kept in the dark about the war and the dangers it brought, so Callie went about her life as sex queen/wealthy man’s wife as usual. Charlie was her all, but her happiness was tainted by the fact that she hadn’t given him a baby yet. 

			
Meantime, baby Flip was doted on by not just his grandmother but by his aunts and all the ranch hands too. Callie tried to pretend Flip didn’t really exist. She resented that Mickey wasn’t one for mothering, yet she was the one with a baby. 

			
The whole crew knew Mickey and Antonella shared more than a bed each night and that One-Eye Walnut Jack was either too dumb or too scared to say anything. The arrangement somehow worked for them. 

			
That didn’t mean there wasn’t a whole hell of a lot of speculating about it. But eventually, even the gossiping bunkhouse boys got tired of talking about it and decided it was just a happy case of a “Boston Marriage,”—casa lesbica—a housewife who has a girlfriend on the side. 

			
Mickey had ordered one of those new-fangled breast pumps, so she didn’t have to stop herding cattle or, more importantly, take time off from her new job of guarding the acreage around their homes. More men, too, had been hired on so the entire perimeter of their property was guarded from a La Dona attack at all times.

			
Not that Callie gave a hoot about any of it. She wasn’t curious about why there were guards around the property or why everyone was suddenly carrying guns even when they went to check on the damned goats. 

			
All she cared about—besides Charlie, of course—was how Mickey, who must have hated being intimate with Jack, got pregnant faster than, well, a jack rabbit, while she and Charlie who had sex more often every night than most humans do in a month, still came up empty.

			
“Mama!” she’d cry. “Why does Michelina who didn’t even want a baby, have a baby, and I can’t get one? It’s not fair! She’s like a man, but she got pregnant right quick. My darling Charlie and me, well, you know, Ma.”

			
“I know what?” asked Maria, knowing full well what she meant.

			
Those two could be heard moaning and groaning every morning and every night. When they actually slept was the big question everybody was always asking.

			
Hell, Charlie had even taken to riding home for lunch instead of chowing down at the chuck wagon with the boys whenever he could. Why? So, they could get to more moaning and groaning, that’s why. 

			
“I made a novena to Saint Gianna who helps the helpless get pregnant,” Callie wailed to her mother. “Charlie will surely go find another lady who can give him babies iffin’ I don’t get a bun in this oven soon,” she said, laying her hands on her caved-in stomach. Her hipbones stuck out like she was about to die of starvation. 

			
When she went to see Doc Dawson, he told her there wasn’t a darn thing wrong with her that he could tell. “Maybe it’s Charlie who got the, ah, problem?” Callie was so offended that anyone could think Charlie wasn’t superior in every way that she said, “Well, Doctor, that goes to show what you know. My Charlie is a perfect man. The problem is with me.” 

			
Dawson knew when to back off. The woman was blind with love and would never see reason. So, he said, “That’s probably true,” meaning she was crazy. She didn’t get it.

			
After more days of wailing, Maria told Callie there was only one thing to do: They’d travel to visit Chepeta, the Ute shaman, or as the settlers called her, the medicine woman. Chepeta was so wise that, while tribal members would often change their names as many as five times to match transitions in life, she only had two name changes. Here, as her birth name, and another when she began to walk at an unusually early age. An older relative changed her name to honor her Aunt Chepeta, the most famous Ute wise woman who ever lived. And nobody ever thought it should be changed to anything else. Wise is wise. Spirit is spirit. 

			
Yellow Fly had fetched Chepeta many times when calves were sickly or when fever spread around the hands or the livestock. But it wouldn’t do for her to come to them this time, though. Callie and Maria had to go to her. 

			
“Chepeta can make the miracle that even our Lord hasn’t seen fit to grant you,” Maria said. The medicine woman was her daughter’s last hope, and they both knew it. 

			
To keep the trip’s purpose as secret as possible, Callie told Charlie that she and her mother were going to tend to a sickly relation for a few days. She was vague about just which relative it was. Charlie figured it was lady stuff, so he accepted it but insisted that Gaetano accompany them as a guard. 

			
Even if she was doing a good deed, he wasn’t happy about his Callie leaving him—ever—no matter for how short a period of time. 

			
“But darlin’!” Charlie cried, pointing down to his man parts. “Who’s gonna take care of Big Man while you’re gone?”

			
“Well, don’t you go sharin’ Big Man with no other woman. You’ll just have to make do.”

			
Charlie made a jerking off gesture with his hand, causing Callie to pretend to blush. “I guess this will have to do until you get back,” he whined.

			
“Or better still,” she offered, “this will do you ‘til I return.” She opened her mouth wide, kissed him, and rolled her tongue around. Then she pushed Charlie right onto the bed, got on top of him and put Big Man inside her where he liked it best. Everyone on the ranch heard them yelling, moaning, sighing, and carrying on, but by then their noises were common as cows mooing. 

			
Charlie loved Callie so much that he never said anything about why she hadn’t given him a son yet, but it did play on his mind. Maybe they did it too much and her lady parts was worn out? Maybe she just wasn’t born to breed? Or maybe God was cursing them for being so happy together?

			
Callie had her own thoughts. She was definitely what the medical doctors called a “nymphomaniac,” so maybe God didn’t want women who wanted sex all the time to have babies. Her mother told her that wasn’t true, and that the more sex a woman had the better chance she had of getting pregnant, which only caused Callie to become hysterical. “Iffin’ we had more sexshal relations, we’d never have time for anything else!”

			
Indeed. It was a problem.

			
Maria and Callie took the buckboard and rode out to where the Mouache band of the Ute tribe was camped out south of Trinidad. Gaetano followed a respectable distance behind. 

			
Charlie was a man every ranch hand wanted on their side, yes, but it was Maria who put the real fear of God into all the men. So, Gaetano did as she asked when she told him to make camp about half a mile from the Ute’s encampment. This trip was about women’s business, not anything a man could know about.

			
Maria had brought Chepeta a silver comb and hairbrush and one of Callie’s fancy lace petticoats with ribbons. Chepeta, who was dressed in her traditional long, deerskin dress and leggings thought they were pretty enough but probably best suited to the ladies who sold sex in town.

			
Maria also bought jars of her own canned tomato sauce, a big jar of Italian spices, which was her own secret bland, and homemade pasta. 

			
Chepeta didn’t know what to do with the sauce or the strange looking little bread things (the pasta), but Maria showed her how to cook it up. There was no common language among the women, but with hand gestures and drawings in the dirt, Callie made clear the reason that she was there.

			
“Ah,” Chepeta said, smiling, “no’apükkangkün!” 

			
Callie hoped that meant “get pregnant.”

			
The next morning, Chepeta took Callie into her wickiup where she sang and danced around her, applying herbs to her body and making up a tea with leaves, berries, and twigs that Callie had never seen before. 

			
As Callie tried her best to look unafraid, Chepeta took her leather rattle, which was filled with quartz crystals, and shook it until flashes of light crackled all around them. Powerful magic for sure. But for Callie it was also scarier than hell itself. She was too paralyzed with fear to run out of the tent.

			
After that ceremony was finished, Chepeta put Callie inside a sweat lodge for a day. Callie thought she was going to die and then swore that her heart actually stopped when she was finally taken out of the steaming hot tent and plunged into the freezing cold stream. Maria knew her daughter, now the very spoiled wife of a very rich man, could stand with some roughing up, so she didn’t pay any mind to Callie’s crying and carrying on. Meantime, she slept on the ground outside and prayed on her rosary. There was no such thing as too much praying when it came to this situation, she figured. After having survived and even thrived on this frontier, Maria knew miracles came from more than one God and bad times from more than one devil.

			
After two days, the rituals and cleansings were done. Chepeta gave Callie a sack of herbs that she was to boil into a tea and drink every day. Somehow, they understood.

			
There was one more thing, she said. But Callie and Maria didn’t understand what she was trying to say, so Chepeta had to call over the male scout, who spoke English. 

			
He said, “Chepeta says you must do yoko two times at the full moon.”

			
“Yoko?” Callie asked. “How do you do yoko?”

			
The scout looked embarrassed, but Chepeta nudged him and said, “Sumaikku!”—Go ahead.

			
The scout made a circle with his thumb and forefinger and shoved his finger on his other hand in and out of it.

			
“Oh,” said Maria. Callie didn’t blink.

			
Then Chepeta said the one phrase she knew in perfect English, “I guarantee!”

			
Callie bowed down to thank her and then popped back up again, suddenly distraught. “You mean we can only do yoko two times in one night?”

			
Even the scout laughed when he interpreted it, and Maria and the medicine woman exchanged looks. This girl had no shame. 

			
Chepeta raised two fingers and shook her head. “Gaidease!” 

			
“She said only two times yoko. No more,” the scout explained. 

			
Callie attempted to thank Chepeta in the same Shoshoni language muttering, “huuwihyu,” which came out more like “who are you?”

			
By the time the ladies and Gaetano got a move on and got home after supper, Ute magic was already at work. There was a full moon, and Charlie was in bed.

			
Callie poured lavender water all over herself to hide the stink of the ride, put on a lacy, racy nightgown and climbed into bed. Charlie was quick to respond, and they made love—twice. 

			
Callie was nervous he’d want to go a few more times like usual, but when he tried, nothing happened. 

			
“The heart is willin’, darlin’, but the flesh is weak tonight.” He flopped back down on the pillow and pretended to be fast asleep.

			
She took this as a good sign from heaven that the blessed event she had so yearned for had already begun.

			
Charlie took his lack of going all night as a very bad sign from hell that the horror he so feared—the war between the families—was about to boil over. 

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 29 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 29 –

			
The Big Bang

			
Pueblo, Colorado 

			
September 1, 1923

			
Two weeks after they got back from the Ute camp, Callie missed her first moon cycle. She told only her mother, fearing that her bloods might start flowing, and the bad news might break Charlie’s heart. She knew how much he wanted a son. 

			
He never noticed that she’d missed her bloods, which was funny seeing how he was so obsessed with her skin-and-bones body. Crazier still, he didn’t even remark on how her flat-as-a-barnside breasts had started to pop.

			
Charlie hadn’t taken note of it, or if he had, he never mentioned it to Callie. Charlie had changed alright, but he held the reason as close to the vest as his gun. The meeting of the families had brought home the reality of the dangerous situation they were in. 

			
The American vigilante group, the KKK, had been given a hunting license to kill immigrants as long as they claimed they were bootleggers. Proof not needed. That was a fight the families were willing to take on, but it would only work if they all banded together. But was that even possible?

			
Despite what his father had said, Charlie feared the murder of Pellegrino Scaglia and his young son, and the attempted murder of his daughter, made peace seemingly impossible. The La Donas had declared war not just on the men, but they had done the unthinkable and gone after their rivals’ children. How could the families ever move on from such a thing? Could his father have misjudged the situation?

			
While his father was always right, in some ways Charlie was secretly relieved Callie hadn’t produced a child. Imagine if they had a baby and he couldn’t protect it? The very thought made him sick with rage.

			
No one was safe. He didn’t share any of these fears with his wife. It was men’s business, but it was weighing him down to the point that he could think of nothing else. 

			
Callie was confused and upset. Maybe he was disappointed in her because she hadn’t produced a child yet. Maybe he just didn’t love her like he did before, because, for one thing, he wasn’t as fussy about looking perfect for her. 

			
She didn’t worry too much that he had another lady because, hell, he’d even stopped dressing up like a dandy when he went into town. He had stopped dousing himself with that fancy Caswell No. 6 Cologne; the one the ranch hands said was so strong that Charlie couldn’t sneak up on a blind man.

			
Callie was worried for sure, but she tried keeping faith that her man was keeping faithful to her even when he started coming home later than usual since most of the time she knew where he was.

			
He and his brothers had taken to spending the evenings at their father’s house. But why was he staying later and longer each night? Callie didn’t know but decided to believe it was just him needing time for man talk. Business and all that. Whatever it was, it was a secret not for women to know.

			
But she had a secret of her own—one that would make him happy again no matter what was troubling him. She just had to wait to make sure before announcing it. So, by the time Callie had missed two cycles and was starting to finally put some meat on those bones, she decided to announce the big news to Charlie over a dinner of chicken cacciatore and a bottle of her family’s best Barbera rosso. 

			
Even though he didn’t walk in the door until well past eight, she had kept not only the dinner warm but also kept herself looking hotter than a fried chili pepper. All she wore was a silk slip that left nothing to the imagination. 

			
Charlie tossed his hat on the rack and sat down at the table without even washing up as he usually did. 

			
“Charlie,” she said rubbing her stomach and breasts, which he took to mean dinner would have to wait until they hit the sheets—or maybe even right there on the table.

			
“I have news,” she announced stopping all the rubbing around, her nipples bulging out of the thin silk like fresh popped corn. Since it didn’t seem to involve more sex, Charlie stopped being all that interested, so she moved behind him and put her hands on his shoulders.

			
It kind of annoyed him because he liked food almost as much as he liked Callie’s ways with her mouth—and that didn’t mean her sparkling conversation. 

			
“I said I have news, Charlie.”

			
“OK. What’s your big news?” 

			
What the hell was wrong with him? He sure didn’t seem to care what her news could even be.

			
“I’m pregnant!” she yelled, dropping her hands, clapping, and dancing around the table. “We’re having a baby!”

			
Charlie just looked startled. 

			
It wasn’t the reaction she had been expecting, so she started to cry. “Charlie, I said we’re having a baby!”

			
Charlie snapped out of it long enough to say, “Why darlin’, that’s great news!” He got up and hugged her, but his heart wasn’t in it. 

			
“Charlie, what’s wrong?” Callie cried. “I thought you’d be the happiest man in the world now that our family is starting.”

			
“I am happy, sweetheart.”

			
Callie had a thought. “Oh wait—are you worried you won’t be getting as much lovin’ everyday? Well, don’t you worry about that. Even when I am too big for you to mount, I promise my hands and mouth will be working overtime!”

			
Charlie laughed and gave her a smooch, but for reasons she didn’t understand, it didn’t end in bed. Instead, he dove into his grub, and as she was cleaning up the dishes, he went to bed instead of taking her to bed. 

			
He was dozing when she walked into the bedroom. She lit the oil lamp, slowly removed her slip, and rubbed her belly and breasts as she sang their favorite Sicilian folk song to him: 

			
“Mi votu e mi rivotu suspirannu passu li notti ‘nteri senza sonnu, e li biddizzi tò jù cuntimplannu, li passu di la notti finu a jornu…”—I turn and turn again, sighing, I spend whole nights without sleeping. I admire your beauty and see the whole night pass until day.

			
Charlie snapped out of his fog, sat straight up, and cried out, “Hot damn girl! You got titties!” What had started out troubled turned into a night to remember. 

			
Would it be an exaggeration to say they went eight times? No, it would not. 

			
But in a few days, he was back to being mopey, not as interested in sex, and not talking up a storm as usual. She could have sung until Blue joined in for all he cared. Some nights he didn’t come home at all and stayed over at the Carlino house while she sat alone with her big news and new big titties. 

			
Charlie just couldn’t tell her the truth. He had vowed to his father that what they talked about would stay between father and sons.

			
So, no, he couldn’t tell her why, and besides, he would never want to spoil her happiness by telling her they weren’t safe on the ranch any longer; that the son she was carrying, despite talk of peace, would never be safe as long as even one member of the La Dona family walked the earth. They’d never be safe from the deputized Klansmen either. To his mind, it was almost better to make her think there was another woman than to make her feel unsafe while she was carrying his baby.

			
Charlie had a tailor connected to the family make him a heavy, bulletproof leather vest filled with salt and brine. It was so plain, heavy, and ugly, it looked like a punishment, not a garment. “Charlie!” Callie asked, “What in the world are you doin’ wearin’ a heavy vest like this in the summer?”

			
He told her it was because he was doing more roping and would fall off his horse more often. The vest, he said, kept him from breaking his ribs. It didn’t make a whole helluva lot of sense, but she didn’t question it. 

			
All she cared about was that he wasn’t having sex with some whore on the side. She made sure that no matter how big her belly got, she’d satisfy her man every evening he was home. She couldn’t have been more thrilled when one night, he took her big-belly-naked self into his arms after she’d pleasured him nine ways ‘til next Christmas and whispered, “Your lovin’ is the only thing that makes me forget my troubles. I love you, darlin’.”

			
What troubles?

			
She didn’t ask because she didn’t want him to go into a dark mood again. 

			
On the morning of September 1, 1923, Callie got to moaning and groaning so loud they probably heard her in Denver, and for once it wasn’t because she and Charlie were going at it like wild cats. The baby was coming.

			
Charlie put his troubles and his guns aside for the day and so did the rest of the men on both sides of the family because Callie said no one could come ’round wearing a gun on birthing day. It was a time for new life not more death.

			
All guns were stashed, and booze and fireworks were brought out in preparation for the big moment. The big question was: Would the baby—which everyone hoped would be a boy—be a looker like Charlie or a skinny faccibrutta like Callie?

			
Callie’s labor wasn’t easy like Mickey’s had been. That girl toiled like she was about to die for twenty hours until a bloody, curly little black head of hair pushed out. Maria snipped the cord, checked the infant from top to toe and declared, “Cincu ‘irita di mani, cincu irita di pedi!”—Five fingers, five toes!

			
Callie struggled to sit up, “Is it a boy?” was all she wanted to know.

			
Her sister Laura, who was helping with the birthing, blurted out without Maria’s permission, “Callie, it’s a beautiful baby girl.”

			
Callie didn’t even try to fake it. A flood of tears came pouring down her face, and she didn’t stop crying even when she took her new baby in her arms. She had failed to give Charlie a son, and he would be very disappointed. She tried to console herself by thinking that, now that she had produced one baby, more babies—sons—would follow. That’s what she thought.

			
Charlie was called into the room and didn’t show any disappointment at all; although, what man wouldn’t be disappointed with a girl? But Charlie just smiled and kissed his Callie passionately on the lips. It was so passionate that Maria had to step in, laughing, “Eh musciad!”—Mush-pot.

			
Callie was quick to tell Charlie not to worry because one baby meant sons would follow. “I gave birth to our future son’s big sister!” she said by way of trying to make the best of a not-good situation. He believed her because he believed everything she said. Then she said she was sorry it wasn’t a boy.

			
Charlie laughed, kissed the baby’s head, and said, “Ma chi bedda!”—But she’s beautiful! 

			
Dark skin, curly black hair, perfect little feet. Everyone agreed she was a beautiful baby; everyone except for Callie, that is.

			
Maria shooed Charlie out of the room—the birthing room was no place for men—and told him to go pass out cigars. But when he looked for the cigars in the bunkhouse, he found empty boxes. Those card-playing varmints had gone and smoked every last one.

			
“No problem, brother,” Peter said to the new father. “You stay here, and me and Gaetano will take the Ford and go pick up some good ones down at Bratton’s.” 

			
W.R. Bratton Cigar Emporium was the place for the best Pueblo had to offer. It sold cigars in the front, bootleg in the back, and had a speakeasy in the basement. What could be bad?

			
Peter and Gaetano took the open-top Ford into town, and as Gaetano was parking the car, they saw a sedan with the windows blacked out speeding up to pass them. 

			
“Stunad!” Gaetano yelled, jumping up from his seat and slapping his right hand on his left arm in the gesto dell’ombrello gesture, yelling, “Va Fangul!”—Go to Hell!—for good measure.

			
The shotgun blasts that followed hurled Gaetano halfway out of the car. What used to be Gaetano was splattered everywhere. Peter tried climbing over to him and saw that the top of Gaetano’s head was mostly gone. 

			
Another shot rang out, just missing Peter, who reached for his gun. That’s when he remembered they’d all put their guns down that day, and he’d forgotten to take it back for the drive to town. More shots. The boy got hit. The force of the bullets lifted him up and threw him back down on top of Gaetano’s bloody corpse. 

			
Several minutes passed before townsfolk felt safe enough to come out and run to the bloody Ford. The sedan with the shooters had sped off, so no one saw anything even if they had seen something. Peter was still alive, but there was so much blood nobody could tell which man it had come from.

			
Doc Dawson who had been knocking back a few downstairs at Bratton’s ran up two steps at a time when he had heard shooting and the yelling. He reached the ground floor just as some men were carrying Peter into the store. Robert Roberts Jr., who just happened to have been downstairs imbibing with the doc, followed him up and grabbed his camera and stand where he’d left them leaning against the wall.

			
The men laid Peter on the counter right on top of the displayed goods. Doc listened for a heartbeat and began cutting away his clothes. “He’s still breathing!” he declared.

			
Roberts Jr. and his camera moved in closer for a good picture. Doc noticed what he was doing and yelled, “Get that sumnabitch the hell outta here!” But Roberts Jr. kept on taking photographs, not budging. By then, Bratton’s was so packed with onlookers that even if the President of the United States himself had shown up, nobody would have moved. 

			
Leave? thought Roberts Jr. Hell, this could be the revenge story even I couldn’t make up.

			
And that no-good reporter could make up a tall tale out of spit and string. Especially when he was supposed to be writing news and truth. 

			
Roberts Jr.’s Protestant God had just handed him the story of a lifetime. He grinned to himself, thinking how sweet it would be to get even with Peter’s illiterate Guinea bitch mother who had refused to let him talk to the little flood girls or even take pictures of that devil wolf of theirs. 

			
Screw the flood girl story. This? This was one hundred times better. He’d publish pictures of Maria’s son as he lay dying in a store. She would be sorry she drove him off. She’d be so damned sorry. 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 30 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 30 –

			
Deader than Kelsey’s Nuts

			
Pueblo, Colorado

			
September 2, 1923

			
The Pueblo Times

			
Black Hander Hit Point Blank

			
By Robert Roberts Jr.

			
Special to The Pueblo Times

			
The twenty year-old Sicilian gunslinger and murderer, Pietrantonio La Barbera, alias Peter Barbera, alias Pete Barbarian, son of the wanted Black Hand bootlegger and assassin, “Marian the Barbarian,” got his just desserts on Saturday when he was gunned down by his own kind.

			
The young killer and his mobster friend, Gaetano Passentino, forty-two, were riding in Barbera’s convertible car when rival Sicilian mobsters overtook them in a black sedan and opened fire. The assassins’ bullets blew half of Passentino’s head clear off and fatally wounded Barbera. 

			
The sedan carrying the killers sped off as soon as the deed was done. No one saw their faces, but it is assumed they were rival gangsters because violence among the Italians has been increasing daily since the murder of mob boss Pellegrino Scaglia, while he was with his children last year. 

			
In an attempt to save Barbera’s life, local townsfolk put aside their revulsion of the filthy immigrants and rushed to their aid, as God-fearing Americans will do, regardless of the danger to themselves.

			
Passentino was beyond saving, but Barbera was still alive. They carried him into W.R. Bratton’s Cigar Emporium and laid him on the display counter where the victim proceeded to bleed all over the imported cigars. 

			
Dr. Dawson, who happened to be in the shop at the time, was Johnny-on-the-spot, cutting away Barbera’s clothing in an attempt to see where he had been shot. As Doc was removing the bullets, young Barbera, who had lost much blood, passed away.

			
This will no doubt bring upon the good people of Pueblo more violence at the hands of Italians. The New York Times even published a highly praised editorial warning Americans about the particular danger of the Southern Italian immigrant. 

			
The editors wrote: “There has never been since New York was founded, so low and ignorant a class among the immigrants who poured in here as the Southern Italians.” The editors further warned that Sicilian children were “utterly unfit—ragged, filthy, and verminous” and should not be educated in public schools “among the decent children of American mechanics.” Sadly, that sage warning has gone totally unheeded in Colorado.

			
The Barbera family, who are as bad as they come, have been in the news before. The late Peter Barbera happened to be the older brother of the infamous so-called “Flood Girls.” These were the five-year-old twins who, along with their pet wolf, somehow “magically” survived the 1921 Pueblo flood even as others in the schoolhouse perished.

			
The Barbera family had yet to be informed of Peter Barbera’s death at the time this newspaper went to press. 

			
***

			
Robert Roberts Jr.’s front-page story ran along with a half-page photo of young Peter sprawled out without clothing, covered in blood on the cigar counter at Bratton’s. 

			
What that yellow journalist forgot to mention was that Peter didn’t die by the time he had filed his story with the newspaper. As it turned out, Peter did not die at all. 

			
In reality, local hotel keeper, Bad Boyce, had raced to the Barbera Ranch to tell the family about the shooting, not knowing if Peter was alive or dead. Everyone from the family plus the ranch hands rode, drove, and ran to the scene. Doc had managed to save Peter’s life, but just barely. That boy was so full of holes, he looked like a cowboy’s boots, and he had lost more blood than you’d imagine a person had in them.

			
Peter stayed on the counter that night, watched over by his mama and the Barbera men, while outside, the ranch hands surrounded the store armed to the teeth.

			
The next day, weak as he was, they managed to bring Peter home, where Maria and the sisters tended to him while the men stood watch at the property borders and around the house.

			
Maria called in Father Angeletto, and the two of them prayed over Peter, the priest anointing the wounded young man with olive oil and salt. His mama applied moldy bread to his bullet wounds and kept watch with her daughters twenty-four hours a day.

			
After three days of Peter going in and out of consciousness, Maria called upon Chepeta once again, this time to do a healing. Father Angeletto, outraged that she would put a heathen medicine woman ahead of Jesus in the healing arts, left in a huff. Of course, he’d return. He was too afraid of offending any of the Mafia families, and as importantly, he didn’t want to lose out on their generous donations. 

			
As everyone did what they could, from praying to rituals, Peter’s sister Mickey wasn’t among what she called her “sisters of mercy” who were tending to him. Mickey had other plans. 

			
Once Chepeta had finished her ritual and left, Father Angeletto returned to the ranch on his donkey. 

			
“He thinks he’s Jesus,” Austin said to the men, which gave them the first laugh since Gaetano’s murder and Peter’s shooting.

			
As the priest entered under the Double A sign, he ran into Mickey who was cleaning a gun. Furious that she wasn’t doing the proper “woman thing” by ministering to Peter with the other ladies, he took to preaching to her about the power of prayer and how she seemed to be ignoring her brother in his time of need and solace.

			
“Solace my ass,” Mickey shot back, shocking the priest into a near faint off his own ass. She then whistled and looked through gun sight and said, “Vengeance is mine sayeth the Lord.” The priest made a quick sign of the cross, which annoyed the hell out of her, so she aimed the gun his way, causing him to take off on his mounted ass like his own ass was on fire.

			
On Wednesday night, Mickey rode out on horseback with Black Bill, Yellow Fly, and One-Eye Walnut Jack towards the La Dona home. They waited under cover of darkness in an unguarded spot on the property until they saw a car pulling up. Mickey and the boys walked their horses as quietly as they could as close as they could get to the house. The car stopped in front of the house, and four men jumped out. They were all laughing and joking. The screen door opened, and the two men came out holding a bottle of booze. One of the men who’d been in the car waved a copy of The Pueblo Times and read Roberts Jr.’s headline. They all cheered like he had just read that The Denver White Elephants had won the American League baseball pennant. 

			
“We kilt ’em good.” One of the men added for good measure, “Them Carlinos and Barberas won’t be messin’ around with the La Donas no more!”

			
Mickey aimed her shotgun and signaled for Yellow Fly, Black Bill, and One-Eye Walnut Jack to do the same. 

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 31 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 31 –

			
Love and Death and Love

			
Pueblo, Colorado 

			
September 4, 1923

			
The La Dona gang had already been drinking pretty good by the time Mickey, Yellow Fly, Black Bill, and Mickey’s half-a-husband, One-Eye Walnut Jack, snuck onto the La Dona farm in Vineland. 

			
They were all great shots, which is why Mickey took them with her. They had settled in a wooded area where they couldn’t be spotted but were close enough to hit their targets.

			
Still on horseback, Mickey aimed and nodded her head to let the others know to do the same. When everyone had a man in their sights, Mickey whispered, “Go!” and what seemed like an endless barrage of bullets flew. The La Dona boys screamed in pain and fell like dominoes right where they had been celebrating half a second earlier. Some of the La Donas managed to get a few shots off, but they were shooting blind into the dark while they had been silhouetted by the oil and electric lamps inside the house like ducks in a carnival game.

			
Seconds after the shooting started, the screen door slammed open, and two other men with rifles came flying out. Mickey and One-Eye Walnut Jack shot them too. She raised her arm for the group to move out, turned her horse, and they all took off as fast as their very fast horses would carry them.

			
They heard the sound of women and children screaming as they put distance between themselves and the La Dona gang. They rode like the wind, careful to avoid any honeypots—mud, sand, tall grass, and soft dirt—that would leave tracks. But it was impossible to avoid them all, so Walter, who was the best tracker they had (which made him the best man for covering tracks) had been waiting at the edge of the La Dona property. He had a big piece of carpet tied to his saddle, and he dragged it behind him, brushing away tracks and righting the bent grasses.

			
Mickey was so happy that her plan had gone off without a snag and even happier that One-Eye had made two kills, that she went down on him when they got home, as Antonella sat sulking outside the room she normally shared with Mickey.

			
Antonella was still sitting on the floor and feeling sorry for herself outside the bedroom when Mickey opened the door at sunrise. “Get over it,” she snapped at Antonella. “The man deserved a bonus.” 

			
Then, “Hey, Jack! Get your ass outta my bed.” 

			
When he came stumbling out, pulling his pants up over his long johns, Mickey said, “That was a once-in-a-lifetime treat for doin’ so good. Don’t expect it’ll ever happen again because it won’t.” Then she thought about it. “Unless you bag old man La Dona.”

			
That gave One-Eye Walnut Jack a whole new lease on life. For the first time, he had a goal, something to shoot for so to speak: Blow old man La Dona away and get a blow job in return. 

			
Meanwhile, a day later, when word reached the Barbera Ranch that there’d been a slaughter at the La Dona Farm, Maria put two and two together. 

			
She stood on the porch and screamed like a wild woman, “Michelina! Ntrasi subbito!”—Get in here right now! 

			
When Mickey walked into Maria’s house, she removed her ten-gallon. “Jesu Christo Maria!” her mother said to her. Mickey had completely shaved her head not even leaving her usual stubble. She was bald as a cue ball.

			
“What did you do?” Maria demanded, her Sicilian so thick that only her family could ever catch every word. “What the hell did you do?”

			
“I shaved the rest of my hair off,” said Mickey. “It would get all sweaty and stuck when I was out on the range.”

			
Maria swatted Mickey’s head so hard it left a welt right in the center of the bald. “No! You stupid girl. What did you do when you rode out with the men the other night? Did you kill La Donas without an order? Without a contract? Without my say so?”

			
“Oh, that,” Mickey answered, like she just remembered she’d assassinated a shitload of men a couple of nights earlier. She had thought for a second about denying it, but her mother was way too smart for that. Not only was Maria clever and sly, she knew her children better than they knew themselves. 

			
But why, Maria wondered, had she been so thoughtless as to forget to warn Mickey not to do anything? Why hadn’t she told her the family would take care of the La Donas in its own time? 

			
Why? Because the usually strict Maria had been working so hard to keep Peter alive, she hadn’t talked about her plans to take down the rotten bunch of what they called, “La Dona Belladonna.”

			
Now it was too late.

			
“You’ve put us all in jeopardy!” she screamed at Mickey. 

			
“We were already in jeopardy,” Mickey reminded her mother like she needed reminding. “Those fuckers, pardon my language, Ma, but those fuckers killed Gaetano, and Peter is hanging by a thread.”

			
“It wasn’t your place! I would have gotten vengeance in my own way, and I would have broken them and made them surrender.”

			
“Well, Ma,” Mickey said, not the least bit sorry and in fact proud of herself. “Thing is? You shudda seen those bastards go down.” She pointed her hand like a gun and swept it around the room. “Pow! Pow! Pow!” 

			
Mickey saw her mother’s enraged face and tried to pretend she was sorry that she’d done it, but she knew her mother knew it was a bunch of bull. 

			
“Get out!” Maria snapped. “If any more harm comes to this family, it will be on your soul.” 

			
That reached Mickey, and she bowed her head for real and said, “I’m so sorry, Ma.” Then, “But they deserved it.” 

			
Maria picked up a plate and threw it to deliberately smash into the wall an inch above Mickey’s head.

			
When she left, Maria went to the room where Peter was laying on top of the covers, sweating and groaning. Maria took out her rosary, knelt, and prayed, “Arcangelo Michele, proteggi nuiatri ‘nta battagghia…”—Saint Michael the Archangel, defend us in battle. Be our protection against the wickedness and snares of the devil; God rebuke him, we humbly pray; to hell with Satan and all the evil spirits who roam the world for the ruin of souls…

			
The story was everywhere, and accusations flew around Pueblo like dust in a storm. Robert Roberts Jr. took particular delight, of course, in continuing to write about the “ambush and slaughter” of members of the La Dona gang by “coward swarthy Sicilians under cover of darkness.” Like he knew, which he didn’t.

			
Neither John nor Antonio La Dona had been killed, although like Peter Barbera, John La Dona had a fifty-fifty chance of survival. Pete La Dona, escaped without a scratch. Several of the henchmen, probably the very ones who had ambushed Peter and Gaetano, were killed. Roberts Jr. went so far as to accuse the Barberas and Carlinos of the “cold blooded murders.” It was true, of course, but he was such a slanted reporter, he printed it with no proof.

			
Little Flo, who could read and write with the best of ’em, walked into the kitchen and picked up The Pueblo Times from the table. Maria and Helen were busy rolling out the dough for the night’s pasta.

			
“This is that man who came here and you threw him out, right Mama?” Flo asked. Maria nodded her head. 

			
“Why does he hate us?” the little girl asked. “He wrote that terrible article about Peter and Gaetano too! He called them terrible names. I hate him.” 

			
Maria tried to explain to her that many white ’Merigaans—the Protestants—in this new land hated Italians even though their families had come here as immigrants just like the Italians had. Flo nodded her head.

			
“Where does he live?” Flo wanted to know. Maria shooed her away saying it didn’t matter where he lived, and she better not try to find out because he was a bad man.

			
Flo asked, “Mama? Why wasn’t nobody arrested for shooting Peter?” Peter had always been her favorite because he had taught her useful things like how, if you held a buttercup under somebody’s chin, you could tell if they liked butter. “And,” she added, showing Helen the newspaper and stomping her feet, “why ain’t they arrested nobody for shooting Gaetano dead?”

			
Cranky Helen grunted and, looking up in great annoyance, said, “Why? Why you ask, you pest? Resistiri. Difenniri. Onori. Omertà. Mafia. That’s why. You know nothing.”

			
Flo put her hands on her hips. “That’s not an answer, and I do know stuff, but how can I know more stuff if nobody tells me nothing?” Then she added, “Helen, you are such a grouchy old maid, you never teach me anything.” 

			
Helen picked up the rolling pin and mock-threatened to hit Flo on the head with it.

			
Maria tucked the little girl under her arm and kissed her on the head. “Nun lu diri a nuddu.”—Do not tell anyone. 

			
Flo wasn’t sure what she wasn’t supposed to tell anyone, but she ignored it because it was a thing her mama seemed to say all the time about everything.

			
What she meant, that Flo didn’t yet understand, was that Sicilians would never talk to the law, even if talking would bring the killers of their own family members to justice. The law? They were worse than your worst enemy.

			
“Now skedaddle,” Helen told Flo. “Go outside and play. And mind your own business!”

			
Flo stomped out to the front porch and called Blue, who came running out of the woods. The wolf hopped up on the porch, stuck her head in the front door, and growled at Helen, which made her scoot for protection behind Maria. Flo thought that was about the funniest thing she ever saw, which just made Helen even grouchier than usual. 

			
Laughing out loud, Flo ran off with Blue, with little Clara trailing along. God knows where they went, and they never told a soul where they had gone off to that day either. 

			
At first no one paid them any mind, but later there were suspicions and plenty of speculation about it. The girls wouldn’t say…like their mother had taught them Nun lu diri a nuddu. Meantime, since the ambush of Peter and Gaetano and the retaliation by Mickey and her boys, to the untrained eye at least, it looked like everything had quieted down. But truth to tell, Maria was still preparing—as she had hinted to Mickey—a lot more than pasta dough. She was preparing a full course of retaliation. But first Gaetano had to be given a funeral with all the honors he had earned. 

			
Gaetano’s body had been taken to the T.J. Maggiore Funeral Parlor, but two days had gone by, and they still had no word on when they could hold the wake. So, Maria and Joe went into town to find out what the holdup was all about.

			
Signor Maggiore explained that he had been trying very hard to put together what was left of Gaetano, but it was a nearly impossible task. He tried to suggest that perhaps a closed coffin would be best. Maria and Joe were shocked.

			
“Closed coffin?” Maria gasped. “No, that would be disrespectful. And,” she added making sure that the undertaker understood her meaning, “everybody should see what the La Donas did to one of us.” There was no further talk nor consideration about what her own family had done in retaliation. One thing was clear without it being spoken—the murdered men at the La Dona home would not be waked at the T.J. Maggiore Funeral Parlor.

			
Callie, meantime, was not interested in what she called “men’s business” even if the men’s business she was talking about was run by her mama.

			
Yes, the new mother did have a lot on her mind: Would her brother ever recover? Was her new little family safe? What would happen when her sister Laura, who was helping out the with baby, went back home in a few days and she was alone with the infant she called “Screaming Mimi?”

			
She was not happy that the baptism had to be a private affair instead of the big blowout she had imagined because of the dangers surrounding the family. Would there be another blood bath when they had the funeral, which, unlike the baptism, would be open to all friends and family?

			
Callie was mostly interested in getting her marital relations back on track. To keep Charlie coming home every night, they must get back to the love making that had taken up every free minute before the baby was born.

			
She was worried. What if she and Charlie resumed their wild sex life and she ended up pregnant right away? 

			
I wonder if Chepeta has a spell to keep me from getting pregnant right away? she thought and then dismissed it as bad luck.

			
She fully intended to give Charlie a son. Just not right away. Babies were a lot of work, and besides, the baby (whom they had named Carlotta) took time away from Charlie. If pregnancy was hard, her own infant, she discovered, was harder to deal with. She told Laura, much to her sister’s surprise that, “This cryin’ nasty little thing wasn’t what I hoped for.” 

			
“It ain’t like you didn’t know what was in store for you. Mama popped ’em out like rabbits.” 

			
“But we were all good babies, not like ‘Screamin’ Mimi’ over there,” she whined as Laura went to pick up the crying baby from the cradle. 

			
“You forget. We all wailed and carried on plenty as babies. Somebody was always bawlin’ and if we weren’t, it was because we were too starved to scream.”

			
Callie just shrugged her shoulders.

			
Charlie was still out a lot and at his father’s house until late, but Callie made sure that between feedings, she was all over him like paint on a wall. Now that she had big nursing breasts, their sex life had entered a whole new dimension.

			
Being a new mother hadn’t improved her looks, nor had she ever developed that “new mother glow” they talk about. For reasons nobody could figure out, though, the already too-handsome Charlie did seem to get better looking. 

			
So that gal had to make sure she kept him hot as a stolen tamale.

			
She did have those new, big breasts, which was good. Her biggest thrill was not feeding the baby but offering them up to Charlie. That was a new sex trick that she figured even Cora-Lee probably never learned. 

			
 

			
When Carlotta wailed to be fed and then would attach herself to Callie like a starving pup on a teat, it just annoyed her. Those breasts were for her man. She worried that Carlotta would ruin them and make them sag.

			
And even though they couldn’t have what you’d call full marital relations yet, Callie was all about pleasing Charlie as many times a day as he wanted in every way she could think of. The more he would get to loving on those breasts, the louder Callie’d cry out, “Oh, Carlo!” using his given Christian name instead of “Charlie” like usual. 

			
She did it because it drove him wild, especially as he was coming. He just didn’t know what else was coming.

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 32 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 32 –

			
Baxter Bridge Over Troubled Waters

			
Baxter Bridge, Near Pueblo

			
September 10, 1923

			
After a morning of mighty satisfying sex, Charlie set out for the bottling and distribution site like always. Well, not like always because, since the ambush and Mickey’s retaliation, the Barberas and the Carlinos had bodyguards riding shotgun with them. Nobody rode, worked, played, or even went to the outhouse alone. When the men were gone from their homes, their houses were guarded by sharpshooters who had pledged their lives to protect their “family.”

			
The Sugar Moon War was full on, and nobody was safe. It was like Vito Carlino had never called that meeting with the other families or issued the warning for them to stop warring with each other or they’d risk losing everything. 

			
That morning, Callie blew her man a kiss from the front porch with her free hand as she held the baby who suckled at her breast with the other. She couldn’t help if the top of her dress fell down and her other breast was exposed, could she? 

			
Charlie’s bodyguard, Dominic Ingo, tried like hell not to stare, but he’d never seen such a display. Now he knew why the other fellers said in private that for an ugly-ass woman, Callie showed off more of what she had (and didn’t have) than any other good, Catholic woman they’d ever seen. Dominic would never put up with such shamelessness from his wife. But that Charlie? He seemed to love it. Good thing Callie’s bodyguard was a woman—her sister Mickey. 

			
What Charlie didn’t tell anybody was that, since the Peter and Mickey incidents, his father told him a meeting had been arranged between the families. 

			
“They want to negotiate a truce—or at least a cease-fire. So do I. You will be my representative, and one of the La Dona boys will represent his family at the first meeting.”

			
Don Vito told Charlie to make it clear the Carlino’s would accept nothing less than a piece of the La Dona bootleg action in exchange for lasting peace. Charlie was to keep the meeting to himself and report back to his father immediately thereafter. 

			
“Do you trust them, Papa?” Charlie wanted to know. 

			
“I trust no one who isn’t blood, but I trust that they want peace as much as we do.” 

			
So, on that fine morning, Charlie took a turn Dominic didn’t expect and headed towards the Baxter Bridge, which spanned the Arkansas River. It was not the way to the plant. Dominic didn’t dare ask or question it. If Charlie was of a mind to tell him, he would. Not that it didn’t make Dominic nervous.

			
What Charlie hadn’t told his bodyguard, of course, was that he was to meet Pete La Dona.

			
Charlie was feeling very confident that a truce was in the offing. But since he had sworn omerta—silence—to his father, he hadn’t told Dominic about the meeting. 

			
As they drove onto the bridge, Charlie said, “You know, Dom, I might be the luckiest buckaroo north of the Mississippi.” His grin was as wide as the brim of his spotless, white hat. “My wife is one hunka woman. Isn’t she?”

			
Dominic nodded his head in agreement. What was he supposed to do—tell him the truth? If the guy was blind with lust, he was blind with lust. 

			
“Did you see her on the porch this mornin’? What woman could nurse and be a gorgeous hot tomata’ at the same time?”

			
Dominic almost said under his breath, well not that one, but instead said, “Yes, a rare talent in a woman.” He silently prayed to Jesus that those wouldn’t be his last words because then for sure, he’d go straight to hell.

			
Charlie nodded and got that look in his eye. “I think I’ll go home for lunch today.” 

			
“OK,” Dominic answered without making a face. He was thinking, though, Jesu Crista Maria! With the war raging, the last thing a man should be thinking about is going home and getting laid in the middle of the day. Everybody else was worried about being ambushed, and he was worrying about a lunchtime are una cosina velo?—a little quickie.

			
As their car traveled the north side of the bridge, another car was heading towards them on the south side. Dominic sat up straighter and cocked his rifle. “Are those the La Donas?”

			
Charlie squinted in the sun. “I think so.”

			
Dominic shot him a look. 

			
“OK, between us. My father has been speaking to them about a truce. It’s good. They want to make peace, we want to make peace. We’re on our way to meet them. But I don’t know why they’re traveling in the opposite direction though.” Not concerned about it, he patted Dom’s knee. “Don’t worry. I’m in control.”

			
“Don Vito approved this?”

			
“Si. He wants the bloodshed to end.”

			
“You trust them?” 

			
“I trust them as far as I can throw a grenade,” he joked, “but we believe they will keep their word on this, yes.”

			
Dominic looked at him like he’d lost his mind. As the cars were getting closer to one another, Dominic said, “Charlie, I don’t know about this.”

			
“I do,” Charlie laughed, stopping the car. Then he reached into the back seat for his Tommy Gun. He patted it and said, “I don’t have a grenade, but John T. Thompson here is just as good.” He paused. Then, “I mean if things go south.” 

			
Charlie saw the look on Dominic’s mug and said, “Don’t worry, paisan. You worry too much.”

			
What happened next—what started it—is up for argument. The way it finished isn’t. The La Donas’ idea of a peace offering was for them to jump out of the car, guns blazing. Or at least that was one recounting of the story by witnesses. The La Donas on the other hand, claimed that Charlie and Dominic were hiding on the far side of the bridge on the banks of Arkansas River and had ambushed them. There was never a deal pending.

			
The whole thing smelled like week-old fish. The only one who would—and did—buy that story was Robert Roberts Jr. 

			
Whichever way it went down, it’s known that Charlie and Dominic did take refuge at some point behind their Ford, shooting the La Dona car so full of holes it looked like the La Donas’ story sounded. 

			
Charlie and Dominic, guns blazing, made it to the riverbank on the north side of the Arkansas river. The gunfight between the Carlinos and the La Donas lasted so long—some say it might even be the longest gunfight in Colorado history—that Pete La Dona was able to hop back in his car, tear back to his farm in Vineland, pick up what reinforcements he had on hand, and call a La Dona soldier, Frank Bacino. He ordered Bacino and his brothers to tear ass to the battle site loaded with ammo and guns. 

			
Hours after the gunfight started, the La Donas, freshly locked and loaded with the Bacino stash, hit Dominic. Hard. He fell back on a stump and bled out. Outnumbered, outgunned, and probably out of bullets, Charlie retreated. He slid down the riverbank and crawled until he found a section of the Arkansas River where it was shallow enough to enter. 

			
Just as he got his footing, a barrage of bullets hit him square in the back, throwing him facedown into the raging river. That beautiful boy, that new father, that Charlie, the dandiest fella to ever walk the streets of Pueblo, was dead. 

			
His shot-up body floated away downriver, graceful as a reed. 

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 33 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 33 –

			
What Do We Do About Carlotta?

			
Pueblo, Colorado

			
September 10, 1923

			
Callie swore that as Charlie and Dominic pulled away that morning, she heard a hen crow.

			
Maria had taught her kids that when a hen crows, someone in the family is going to die, so you had to kill it immediately to destroy the bad omen. But that morning, Callie didn’t feel like running after the blasted bird and wringing its neck, so she figured she’d ask Charlie to do it when he came home. Charlie would for sure love to have roasted hen, so maybe they’d have it tomorrow.

			
That night though, she baked thin prosciutto slices in the oven until they were crisp as Sunday morning, which she’d sprinkle over pasta when they sat down to supper. Everything was set and ready to go—water was boiling, table was set with wine and bread. So where the hell was Charlie? She was annoyed—or as annoyed as she could get at her man—because it was already past six. After that morning’s loving, he stretched those perfect, muscled arms of his, leaned down, and kissed Callie, telling her he couldn’t wait to get home for supper and more of the same. 

			
But now he was late. She just hoped Charlie hadn’t gone and stopped off at Bratton’s for a snootful and a round or ten of poker. 

			
At around 6:30, when she heard a car pull up, she ran to the front porch to greet him, leaving baby Carlotta screaming in the cradle.

			
But what the hell? That wasn’t Charlie’s car, and neither were any of the ones behind it, so she ducked back inside, locked the door, and grabbed a six-shooter from the drawer in the kitchen table. 

			
The La Donas! Or maybe the frigging prohibition agents? Damn!

			
Hiding in the bedroom with the baby, she couldn’t see who the men were, but she could hear them walking up the front steps. 

			
Charlie—where the hell was Charlie? Why wasn’t he home protecting her? Where the hell was Mickey? Wasn’t it her damned job to keep intruders away and keep her and the baby safe?

			
When she heard the knocks on the door, she thought maybe she could climb out the little bedroom window and run with baby Carlotta to safety. But the window was too small. 

			
From the porch she heard, “Callie, it’s Joe. Please open the door.” Why was her brother here? Had he, God forbid, been captured by the La Donas who were going to kidnap her too?

			
Mickey called out, “Callie. You need to open the door. The whole family is here.”

			
“What? Why is the family here?”

			
Then Maria spoke, “Figghia mia, pi favuri…”—We have something to tell you…

			
Callie’s heart actually stopped beating for a second. She couldn’t breathe. If she opened the door, she knew she would never be able to close it again. Her beautiful life would be ruined. So, she didn’t. She cowered in the bedroom, holding the baby in the crook of her left arm with the six-shooter shaking in her right hand.

			
Maybe the La Donas had captured the whole family, and they wanted to take her and the baby too? Even she knew her thinking was ridiculous, but she couldn’t, just couldn’t, think about the other possibility.

			
“Charlie—are you with them?” she called out.

			
At that point, someone put a key in the door, and people walked solemnly into the tiny house. 

			
Maria and Laura knocked on the bedroom door and then walked in. As soon as Callie saw them, she began to wail, rocking back and forth, still holding the baby and the gun. 

			
It couldn’t be! No. It wasn’t. It couldn’t. But she knew it was. Charlie was dead.

			
Laura took the baby, and Maria tried to take the gun, but Callie put it up against her temple. 

			
“Ti pregu Calandra, a picciridda avi bisognu di so matri…”—Please Calandra, the baby girl needs her mother—Maria begged. “I need you. Please.”

			
“And I need Charlie,” she screamed. “Where is Charlie?” Then she passed out, dropping the gun on the floor. 

			
When she revived, everyone was surrounding her. “Where is my Charlie?” she cried. 

			
“We haven’t found him yet,” said Joe. 

			
“Well, why are you all actin’ like he’s dead then?” she screamed.

			
“Because we know that for sure. I’m sorry, Callie, but it’s the doggone truth.” 

			
The family gathered ’round her and tried to explain what they knew, with everyone filling in bits of the story as Callie became more and more hysterical. 

			
Charlie’s body hadn’t been found yet, they said, but they’d found Dominic’s remains. What they knew about Charlie was that he’d been shot and killed, and his body was somewhere in the river. 

			
There was no hiding the truth from her the next day when the ranch hands found Charlie’s body a few miles downstream from where he’d fallen. 

			
When the men first saw his corpse, they were thrilled. It looked like Charlie was alive and bobbing up and down to stay afloat. But when they got close to him, they saw instead that his fancy jacket had got snagged on a branch. It was the rough water that was causing him to move about. Damn! Poor, dead Charlie looked like a dancing zombie. 

			
The men brought his bloated body over to T.J. Maggiore Funeral Parlor where Signor Maggiore drained him and fixed him up as best as he could. He didn’t tell the family that the once-beautiful Charlie been shot more than twenty times. In the back. A cable was sent to Mariano in Denver by Don Vito, so he made it home in time for the wake. Not because he cared one way or the other about Callie or even Charlie but because he wanted to show Don Vito he was more than just a loyal soldier. And no one dared ask how he even knew about the murder of his son-in-law. 

			
But to Mariano’s annoyance, Don Vito seemed to be paying more respect to Maria than to him at the funeral parlor.

			
How can that be? She’s just a woman, Mariano thought as he knelt at the coffin.

			
Hundreds and hundreds of folks packed into the funeral home to wake Charlie. Even Peter got up from his bed at his mama’s house where he was recovering to attend and take his place with his family. 

			
If you didn’t know better, it looked like a wedding for the dead with the Carlinos sitting on one side and the Barberas on the other with Charlie laid out in front. Callie was dressed head-to-toe in a black lace dress with a black embroidered veil covering her face. The veil looked just like the white one she wore the day she and Charlie married. 

			
She sat in the front row with Charlie’s mother and father, Cologera and Vito. It is hard to say who was more hysterical, mother or wife. Callie kept going up to the open coffin to brush imaginary dust off of Charlie’s white tuxedo or to kiss his cold, cold lips. Every time she did that, though, she got hysterical all over again.

			
Vito remained calm and accepted the hands and kisses of all the men who came to pay their respects to him, offering their condolences and pledging their loyalty. 

			
On the day of the funeral itself, Charlie’s coffin was placed in an open, wooden wagon, which was pulled by his magnificent, black horse. The mourners followed the horse and cart up the hill to the cemetery as the band played Sicilian funeral dirges.

			
Callie collapsed at the gravesite and, like her mother had done years before, tried to throw herself on top of the coffin after it was lowered into the ground. Her brothers held her back to keep her from following Charlie into the grave.

			
Never had anyone seen grief like that, even among these folks who’d already suffered so much loss. Callie went so far as to dress baby Carlotta, who was just ten days old, in her christening dress, which she had dyed black.

			
After the service, they went to the Carlino’s home for the traditional funeral meal. When it was over and everyone got up, Callie did as well. Her mother and sisters walked her back to her own house not one hundred yards away. But when they tried to hand baby Carlotta back to Callie, she refused to take her.

			
“I won’t raise her,” she said calmly.

			
The reaction from the others was not so calm. Her sisters were shocked, and her mother protested and tried to talk sense into her, promising she’d stay with her and the baby as long as she wanted.

			
“I don’t want,” Callie answered. “I don’t want for you to stay with me, and I don’t want to raise the baby. If it was a beautiful boy like Charlie, I would proudly raise him to honor and reflect his father, but she’s not a boy, and she’s not beautiful like her father. I don’t want her.”

			
Maria and the sisters tried to tell her she was crazy from grief, that Carlotta would be her comfort in time.

			
“Do you not understand? I don’t want to be her mother.”

			
“But what do you mean?” Maria demanded and tried to hand the poor little baby back to its mother. 

			
Callie dropped her arms so she wouldn’t have to hold her. “I will go to Skenekeedy in New York and live with Angelina and Arthur. I can’t be here.” 

			
“You think you can just go to this Skeeneky or whatever it’s called and live with them like you don’t have a child?” Maria shouted.

			
“Yes, I can, and that’s what I’m gonna do.”

			
“Does Angelina know this?” Maria demanded. 

			
Callie tidied her bun and said, “I sent her a cable.”

			
The women stood in stunned silence. Mickey, of all people, came forward and said, “I’ll raise Carlotta with Flip. They can be brother and sister, and nobody will tell.”

			
Maria had tears starting up out of love for Mickey’s kindness, but at the same time, her mouth was scowling in disgust for Callie’s selfishness. 

			
Maria looked at Mickey and said, “She is my granddaughter, and I will raise her up as my own.”

			
Then, turning as cold as she’d only been when dealing with rival mobsters, Maria held the swaddled baby closer and said, “Go to New York, Calandra. Never come back. You are not welcome here, and you are no longer my daughter. Joe will take you to the train station in the morning. Get packed.” 

			
With that, she took baby Carlotta and walked out with her other daughters stalking after her. Carlotta began to cry. Maybe that infant girl knew right off that she was not wanted and would never really belong anywhere with anyone.

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 34 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 34 –

			
Oh No Little Flo!

			
Pueblo, Colorado

			
September 12, 1923 

			
The Pueblo Times 

			
Bootlegging Black Hand Murders

			
By Robert Roberts Jr. 

			
Bodies of immigrant Italian mobsters are falling like grapes from their illegal bootleg vines.

			
On Monday, a two-hour gunfight between the Black Hand Carlino family and the La Dona family, who are not known to be Black Hand or in the bootlegging business, took place on the Baxter Bridge.

			
Carlo “Charlie” Carlino, who was married to a daughter of bootlegging assassin Mariano “Marian the Barbarian” Barbera, was killed, and his body was taken by the current downriver, where it was found hanging on a tree. The body of his armed bodyguard, Dominic Ingo, was found slumped behind a tree stump.

			
This reporter has it from a witness to the event that both the Carlino car and the car carrying Pete and John La Dona, and friend, Carlo Valenti, were passing on the bridge in opposite directions at the same time. For no apparent reason, the cars both stopped and Carlo Carlino and Ingo, and possibly another armed assailant, jumped out of their sedan and started firing their Tommy guns. 

			
Another account has Carlino and Ingo hiding in the marshes waiting to attack the La Donas.

			
Because the Carlino mobsters were not decent shots, only the La Dona car got hit, and the La Donas walked away with nary a scratch.

			
Carlo Carlino, who fancied himself an all-American cowboy even though he was just an immigrant son of a bootlegger, was known for his feminine attire such as fur chaps, white hats, and pure-silver spurs. 

			
His union with Calandra “Callie” Carlino née Barbera, was said to be the result of an arranged marriage uniting two of the most vicious Black Hand families in order to form one larger criminal enterprise.

			
The La Dona brothers have made it known that Charlie Carlino had recently made several visits to their house trying to convince them to join him in extorting money from poor Sicilian immigrants—their own countrymen—via Black Hand threatening letters.

			
Pete La Dona told this newspaper, “I would rather beg than do that.”

			
It is not known at this time whether the La Dona brothers and Valenti will stand trial. 

			
When this reporter interviewed townsfolk about the murders, the sentiment was unanimous: “Two less filthy immigrants to worry about.” 

			
***

			
The article had a photo of Charlie’s body being carried into the funeral home, covered by a bloody blanket but with his face exposed. His eyes were open, and so was his mouth in what sure looked like a silent scream. 

			
The morning the article ran in The Pueblo Times, baby Carlotta’s wails woke little Flo at 4:00 a.m. She noticed that Blue wasn’t at the foot of her bed—night hunting, she figured. So, Flo walked into her mother’s room and saw Blue at the foot of the cradle instead. Not night hunting but protecting the baby. Flo watched Maria open a can of condensed milk, which was how the motherless infants got their milk when a wet nurse couldn’t be found. 

			
“Good girl, Blue,” Flo said, kissing baby Carlotta and her mother. Then she smacked the side of her leg for Blue to get up and follow. They wandered out to the front porch to see what adventures they could get up to.

			
She saw someone had tossed what looked like an old, rolled-up newspaper onto the front steps. Flo was forbidden by Maria to look at newspapers since Robert Roberts Jr. had written the awful story with the photo of shot-up Peter, so of course, Flo being Flo, she picked it right up. She wanted to get a sneak peek before Maria caught her. It was barely light yet, so she lit the porch lantern. 

			
When she saw the photo and read the story about Charlie, she kept herself from screaming and waking everyone up. She thought this was even worse than the one Roberts Jr. had written about Peter. In fact, this was the worst thing ever to be in a newspaper. Flo was enraged. 

			
It was, she said to herself, time to take things into her own hands. Well, her hands and Blue’s paws that is. That child, she was the only hell her mama ever raised.

			
She pulled on her button-top shoes and headed into the woods. 

			
“Blue, it’s time to do what I said I’d do. Whaddaya think?”

			
Blue just looked at her. Since they had their own secret way of communicating, Flo took that as a yes.

			
“Blue, find what we hid.” Her wolf led her right to the exact spot where she’d hidden the thing she was forbidden to touch. It was what she’d snuck out of the barn that day Helen had shooed her out of the house.

			
Flo then went to the corral looking for Black Bill’s cousin, Silas, before the men headed out.

			
Silas always had a soft spot for Flo and her wolf. Figured she knew more about the natural world than most folks twice her age. He’d even sneak her penny candy he bought whenever he went to town. She loved him. She could trust him.

			
So, when she asked him for Roberts Jr.’s address, saying she wanted to write him a letter telling him that he was being mean to her family and it wasn’t nice, he thought that was about the sweetest thing he’d ever heard.

			
But Silas told her he had a better idea. “Well, Little Flo,” he said, “I think it would be a might bit better if you write that letter to the editor of the newspaper, instead of that no-account reporter man.”

			
“But why,” she wanted to know.

			
“That way they’ll print it.”

			
“Oh no, I can’t do that. Mama said I’m not allowed to do anything that will get our name in the newspaper.”

			
He thought it was damned sweet of the child to want to write to that sumnabitch and tell him to leave her family alone. It nearly brought tears to his eyes.

			
“I promise I won’t tell nobody, Silas.”

			
“OK, then—it’s our secret. You know that log house? The one half a mile from here with the cottonwood out front?” She nodded her head. “That’s where he lives.”

			
“Thanks, Silas,” she said innocent as can be. Then, “Oh, he doesn’t have a dog or a wife, does he?”

			
Silas laughed. “Little lady, even a starving dawg wouldn’t live with that sidewinder if he was offerin’ it a side of beef.”

			
Good, she thought. 

			
Later that day, when Robert Roberts Jr. didn’t report into work, his editor, Franklin Moss, rode over to his house. He was mad as a hornet that Roberts Jr. had missed his deadline.

			
He was ready to give him hell, but when he got to the house, Roberts Jr. was already in hell. Somehow, he’d got his leg caught in a small animal trap that somebody must have dropped by mistake right in front of his gate. 

			
Moss managed to get Roberts Jr. into his car, with the reporter still attached to the trap, screaming and crying, and drove him to Doc Dawson’s. The doctor had to ask for help getting the damned thing off Roberts Jr.’s leg, not only because it was on tight, but also because the patient was carrying on like a little girl, so it was hard to hold him still.

			
Roberts Jr. should have just held still. All that carrying on caused the rusty metal trap to cut further into his leg, which caused a terrible infection. It took a month to heal, but that reporter with the gift of gab was left with a mouth that didn’t work anymore. Lockjaw, they call it. 

			
Too bad he hated the Barberas, or he could have called on Maria and her famous moldy bread cure. That would have fixed him up right quick so he could have kept on asking questions that were none of his business.

			
Nobody ever did find out who was so stupid and careless enough to drop an animal trap right in front of somebody’s gate. Those things cost good money. 

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

For all the brave, defiant Barbera cowgirls and cowpokes ...
		

	
	
		

			
For all the brave, defiant Barbera cowgirls and cowpokes who rode the range, brewed bootleg, and survived the worst and best of what they found in the American Wild West—and beyond. 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 35 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 35 –

			
You Pay the Hit with a Hit

			
(Aeschylus, 535–456 BC)

			
Trinidad, Colorado

			
September–October 1923

			
Mariano felt that, even though he’d delivered the goods for Don Vito on rival families—quick like the Pony Express—the Don hadn’t shown him the respect and gratitude due him in front of everyone at the wake. 

			
It never occurred to him that no one knew, or more importantly could know, of their secret arrangement. Or that, if the head of the Carlinos had shown any kind of public gratitude to Mariano, it would have made all the mourners wonder why he was suddenly grateful to a man who had shown himself unworthy of respect.

			
Mariano gave no thought to the fact that the man was grieving the loss of his golden son. He just knew he’d done such a great job, he should be treated like a trusted ally. 

			
Marian the Barbarian would have to show his loyalty in a bigger, more obvious way. He had to do what others, including his manly daughter, had failed to do—he would kill a La Dona son.

			
An eye for an eye, a son for a son, a hit for a hit.

			
Mariano found out before he left Denver that the La Donas had a new truck depot in Trinidad. So, after the funeral, he had his son Joe drive him to Trinidad.

			
“You be sure,” he told Joe, “to let it be known only to Don Vito that I was the one who revenged the death of Carlo.”

			
“Don’t do this, Papa. It will be bad for us. You will make things worse. Please.”

			
“Go home,” he answered, dark as coffin air. Joe’s words had fallen on deaf ears. Mariano ran from the car like a man on fire.

			
Mariano crept up to a spot near the truck depot behind a thick grove of pines. As soon as Billy La Dona came out laughing and joking, Mariano took one clean shot and young La Dona went down. He died on the spot.

			
Mariano ran all the way to the train station and hopped the 10:15 morning train to Denver as it was pulling out of the station.

			
He felt very good about himself. Even after all that time gambling and whoring in Denver, he still was the crack shot he always had been. Now if he could only keep his mouth shut about what he’d done.

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 36 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 36 –

			
The Get Out Get Together

			
Barbera Ranch, Colorado 

			
October 1923

			
One fine, crisp morning Blue started howling aggressively, and Flo and Clara stopped riding their ponies and watched as big, black cars headed their way. This was something that had never happened at the ranch before, so they rode as fast as the wind back up to the house to tell Mama. 

			
They hadn’t known why their mama had kept them home from school that day, but now they figured something big—or something bad—was happening.

			
“Mama! Mama!” Flo yelled as they approached the porch, her eyes glued to the dirt drive that led up to their house. “The biggest, blackest, longest car I’ve ever seen, and two other black cars, just turned into our property right under the Double Bar A sign! Hurry Mama! Hurry,” she hollered, running up the steps and pulling open the screen door to stick her head in.

			
Instead of asking what all the fuss was about, they saw their mama frantically managing the older girls at the stove. She was wearing her best calico dress and had her hair done up in a high bun with sparkly hair pins. Flo and Clara’s older sisters had their hair piled high, too, and even though they were dressed to the nines, they were busy cooking up a storm. 

			
Huh?

			
And their brothers—Joe, Austin, and Peter too? Why were they dressed in their Sunday best and running around like headless hens? Peter was still hobbling on a crutch, but even he was trying his best to look normal.

			
They heard the commotion in the barn as the ranch hands rushed out, dusting off their pants with their hats and slicking down their hair with spit. They lined up shoulder-to-shoulder in front of the house. None of them were even packing guns. 

			
Clara poked Flo and tilted her head towards the back pasture. “Holy Juan cannoli,” Flo said. The table for twenty had been set out there with Mama’s good, embroidered tablecloth, linen napkins, and the best dishes—the ones she bought down at Handle’s Dry Goods in town. The table was so loaded down with bottles of Barbera rosso and bianco wine, baskets of fresh-made bread, whole cheeses, giant platters filled with dried meats like prosciutto and pepperoni, and little dishes at every place setting filled with garlicky olive oil, that if that table hadn’t been made of good, sturdy barn board it would have been sagging under the weight.

			
All Maria would tell the little girls is, “We’re having special company. You go wash your faces, and change into your good dresses. And tie Blue up. Right now!”

			
Tie up Blue? Flo had never tied her up. She thought about it for a second just because her mama had said to do it, but then decided that no, she wasn’t about to tie Blue to a post. No way, no how.

			
They went inside to wash up and change as the cars pulled up. Maria and the grown-up children hurried outside to greet the passengers with such obvious awe, it was like King Victor Emanuel III of Italy himself had come to pay the Barberas a visit.

			
Flo and Clara, peeking out the window, watched as the first two men stepped out of the long, black car holding Tommy guns. Then another man rushed over to hold the door open even though it was already open, and Don Vito stepped out. Finally, a tall man, probably over six feet, with blubber lips and eyes as cold and black as a dog’s nose stepped out. 

			
“He’s wearing his coat over his shoulders like it’s a cape or something,” Flo remarked. 

			
They saw as Maria nearly curtseyed. “Benvenuto a casa nostra, Signor Capone,” she said quietly, adding, “E a te, come sempre Don Vito.” 

			
Not even the big sisters knew who the tall man was, so cranky Helen whispered to Joe, “Why is Mama making such a big fuss over the man with Zio Vito.” The other sisters leaned in to hear the gossip.

			
“Why? That’s Scarface! Signor Al Capone, that’s why. Head of the Chicago Outfit.” He answered as though that meant something to a bunch of his cowgirl sisters in dresses.

			
As they stood there not moving a muscle, more men with machine guns came out of the other cars, and finally, the last man came out, his head down like he was ashamed.

			
Mariano!

			
They all moved to the table out in the pasture, Maria and the older girls poured wine as the guests enjoyed the first dish—cheeses and dried meats with bread.

			
Next, they served up the pasta course with Sunday gravy and passed around bowls of braciole and tripe that had been cooked in the gravy.

			
Signor Capone was the first to finish. He patted his stomach, turned to address Maria, and asked her to sit next to him. She sat down beside him, and he said, “From what I hear of you, Signora Barbera, you deserve a seat at the table with the men.” She looked at her husband, who kept his head down.

			
Capone rapped his knuckles for quiet, and the men at the table instantly fell silent. “Your family has been a good producer, and you have been a good soldier for Don Vito. The only woman to have such an honor.

			
“But I came here to tell you that the two unsanctioned hits against the La Donas—deserved or not—cannot go unanswered. I will tell the La Donas the same thing.” 

			
He nodded to Don Vito who continued, saying, “I ordered that this war between the families had to stop. Your family refused to honor my command on this. I told you it would be bad for business—and it has been.”

			
Capone added, “Mariano Barbera and others we know disrespected those wishes,” he said, deliberately disrespecting Mariano by not addressing him directly.

			
“Your husband killed Billy La Dona in an unsanctioned hit. Now the war we didn’t want is officially on, even though we can’t afford one. We cannot have the law shutting down suppliers as a result of the hotheaded actions of one man and one of your reckless sons.”

			
Apparently, even Capone didn’t know Mickey was a woman. “Now the La Donas will seek revenge again on you,” Capone warned. “I don’t want this to happen. Don Vito doesn’t want this to happen.”

			
Then, pausing for impact, he said in a loud bellowing voice, “You need to leave Colorado.”

			
Everyone sat stunned. Finally, Maria spoke, “Signori, with all the respect due both of you, please! My family worked like slaves in the mines, then we were starving without a home, and then we worked day and night to make this ranch. We employ many Italians, and we produce fine wine, and the Sugar Beet drink that you yourself buy. This is our home.”

			
“I know how hard you’ve worked, Signora, but your family refused to follow orders and have brought this on yourselves.”

			
“Can we work out a peace with the La Donas? That’s what my son-in-law Charlie—Carlo—was on his way to do. Make peace. Then he was ambushed by the La Dona sons and shot like a dog, and his body thrown in the river!”

			
“There are different versions of what happened that day, Signora Barbera,” Capone answered waving his hand in the air dismissively. “It’s no matter now. His death was one of many—too many—murders between your families. You are more of a danger to each other than the Klansmen prohibition agents.”

			
“I give you my solemn word—” Maria began but was cut off.

			
“I’m sorry, Signora Barbera, but that’s not good enough. You will locate in Brooklyn, New York, in a Sicilian neighborhood called Red Hook where your family will run a fruit and vegetable store. You will handle the movement of money from our New York operations through your business.”

			
“But the La Donas…?”

			
“You can’t be here anymore. Not now, maybe not ever. I don’t know. I do know that it’s not safe for the women and children.”

			
Mariano gave a sigh of relief. “So, I can stay and run things here?”

			
Capone jumped up from his seat in a rage. “Va Fangul!” he yelled, his fists balled up on the table. “You would let your wife and children live in Brooklyn, New York, alone? Unchaperoned by the head of the family?” 

			
Mariano sputtered. “I just meant—”

			
Capone lifted his hand and slammed it on the table. “It is those kinda reckless, disrespectful ideas that have caused all the problems in our businesses. Capisti?”

			
It was right about then that the back door swung open, and Clara, Flo, and Blue came running out to the table. Blue wasn’t tied up, but she did have a long rope around her neck which Flo was sort of holding. They bounded to the table, making the already-nervous guests jump ten feet in the air. 

			
Maria shouted, “Firenze! I told you to tie Blue up!”

			
“She is tied up,” Flo answered, leading Blue right to them. Capone’s thugs did what came naturally and pulled their guns. Even Capone, who tried to show no fear, reached for his gun.

			
“Whatchya all doin’?” Flo asked Capone, bending down, and hugging her wolf like a mama. “She’s friendly. Her name is Blue, and you can pet her. My name is Flo, and this here’s my little sister. Her name is Clara. What’s your name Mister, and why do you have such a big car?”

			
Capone didn’t pet Blue but, without taking his eyes off the wolf, reached into the big bowl of meat, picked up a chunk of braciole that was dripping red gravy, and threw it to Blue. He was hoping the wolf would chase after it and eat it instead of eating him. Blue didn’t go for it and instead moved closer to Capone to get a sniff of him. Capone jumped up, knocking his coat off his shoulders and onto the ground.

			
“Jesus, Mary, and Joseph,” he screeched. “Don’t your ah, ah, dog like meat?” 

			
This caused Flo to laugh out loud. “Of course she likes meat. She’s a wolf! A Sicilian wolf, so she loves braciole best of all.”

			
Scared but calming down and almost charmed, Capone, who was more clever than most, could see that the females in this family were fearless, smart, and even funny.

			
He took a breath and, with one eye on Blue, continued what he was saying before, but now, wanting to get the hell away from the wolf, he wrapped it up quicker than everyone expected. 

			
“Anyways, as I was saying, Signora Barbera, you can decide who will run this spread. The Carlinos will take full control of your liquor business and all the money from it. You are out of the bootleg.” 

			
“So, we can keep the ranch?” Maria asked hopefully. Neither Capone nor Don Vito said anything. She took that to mean they still owned it, but they just couldn’t live on it. 

			
One of Capone’s men picked up his boss’s topcoat, dusted the Colorado dirt off of it, and draped it back on his boss. Capone squared his shoulders and got back in his big, black car. 

			
Flo, who wasn’t done talking to the stranger, knocked on the window. Capone rolled it down. “Hey Mister, why do you wear your coat on your shoulders instead of inside your arms?”

			
He rolled the window back up, but she could hear laughing and talking inside. She heard him say, “That kid with the lips and the wolf is a pain in the ass! Too bad she’s a girl. Smart as hell.” 

			
They sped off, leaving everyone—except Flo—scared and scratching their heads. 

			
“Nice feller,” little Flo said with her hands on her hips. “Scaredy cat, but a nice feller anyways.”

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 37 –
		

	
	
		

			
 – 37 –

			
The Double Bar A Double Take

			
Pueblo, Colorado 

			
October 11, 1923

			
Every time Maria thought about never coming back to her homestead in Colorado, she burst into tears. Even though Don Vito had told her not to worry and that he had friends of all kinds in New York who would always watch out for her, she was worried.

			
If anybody had told her back in 1910 that the place she once cursed, the place she had hated with its black holes of coal, the place where she’d birthed and buried babies, the place where they’d nearly starved and frozen to death, would turn out to be the place she never wanted to leave, she would have said they were crazy.

			
She and her family had built not just a ranch from nothing, they’d built a life—a life where she became who she never imagined she could be. She was a boss, a businesswoman, a ruthless protector, the mother of a strange band of children, and a woman without the strings of a husband holding her down. She wasn’t “just a wife.”

			
As she had grown in stature, she came to understand that being “just a wife” was maybe not even what she had wanted all those years ago when she first saw Mariano back in Lucca Sicula. Maybe “freedom”—a word not in a Sicilian woman’s book back then—was what she had always really wanted.

			
Whether that was true or not, it’s what she got in this wild new country, and she loved it. She had married Mariano when she was a young girl in love. Now, she was a woman in charge. She feared that in Brooklyn, New York, she’d be forced to go back to her old life as the wife of a mean bastard—but even worse this time. She no longer had any love for her husband, and yet, she and their kids would all be living together with him in a big, filthy, strange city. Signor Capone had told her she’d be handling the money, yes, but he was in Chicago, and she would be in New York. 

			
Worse, what she remembered about this New York City was the horror of Ellis Island. The screaming, dirty people, the brown air, the disrespect she was shown because she was what one officer there called “another filthy wop immigrant.” She didn’t know what it meant back then, but she kept the words in her head so when she learned to speak English, she’d learn the meaning of them. She did learn, and she’d shown them all just what a filthy wop immigrant could become.

			
But now, after all they had built in the Wild West, she would go back to where she started in the new world: New York City. Worse: Brooklyn, a village inside New York City. Would she be just another filthy WOP immigrant in that terrible place?

			
It was Mariano who had brought them so low. She refused to blame Mickey in any way, even though she had been the one to attack the La Donas’ home. She knew Mickey did it out of love for her brother, but Mariano did it only to prove to the bosses that he was a big man. It was the final straw.

			
She cried over every item she packed and every item she had to leave behind. Mariano had been ordered to go on ahead to Brooklyn to find them a place to live. She imagined a house; he found a walkup apartment. He sent her a cable with the address: 151 Union Street in Brooklyn, leaving the packing and travel part for her to figure out. 

			
More important to figure out was who would be left in charge of the ranch.

			
A week before they left, she gathered the family and the ranch hands together out by the corral. A storm was brewing, so everybody—men, women, and children—had bandanas covering their faces. Even the hands who had been out securing fences and putting equipment away rode back in. 

			
They all knew there was a storm brewing in their lives too. 

			
As always, the cowboys were leaky mouths, and the stupid talk had been flying like sage brush in the wind. Who would stay, who would go to Brooklyn, who would decide to join a cattle drive and make their own way in the world? 

			
Maria had thought long and hard about who was most fit for the job of running the ranch and which family members were targets that the La Donas would aim for. No doubt, her boys, who were now men, would be shot and killed if they stayed. She removed her bandana to make her announcements. 

			
They were all expecting big changes, sure, but when she said Mickey would be left in charge with the help of One-Eye Walnut Jack and Antonella, everybody was stunned nonetheless.

			
Cranky Helen stepped up and pulled down her bandana to talk. “Mama! I’m gonna stay.”

			
“No, you will not,” Maria said, shaking her head. “You don’t know how to herd, you never learned your way around a gun, and you are without protection. Michelina will be too busy to be your bodyguard.”

			
“I won’t be without protection,” Helen shot back.

			
The whole bunch looked at her. Who would be her protector?

			
“What do you mean?” Maria asked, losing patience with her most disagreeable daughter.

			
“Silas,” Helen answered. “We want to stay and raise a family together.”

			
If eyes could pop out of heads, the ground around that corral would have looked like an eyeball floor. Everybody was dead quiet for a second, and then the whole bunch started talking at once.

			
“Silence!” Maria shouted, putting her hand up. “You can’t marry Silas, and that’s final.”

			
Cranky Helen stuck her face right up in Maria’s and said, “Why? Because he’s a Negro? You’re worse than the white mine owners who hate Italians.” 

			
Maria shook her finger in Helen’s face and said, “No, you stupid girl. It’s not because he’s a Black man. It’s because he’s thirty years older than you! You’d end up a nursemaid, not a wife.”

			
“Too late to worry about that,” Helen said, wiggling her ring finger which had a gold ring on it. “We got married yesterday.”

			
Peter pulled his bandana down, dust be damned, and spit out, practically choking on his words, “You got married without Ma’s permission? You ain’t even old enough to get legally hitched.”

			
“This isn’t the big city, brother,” Helen said as Silas came up and put his arm around her waist. “This here’s the Wild West, remember? The judge down to the courthouse married us for one dollar.”

			
As the others looked on, speechless, Silas got down on one knee in front of Maria. “Please Missus, we’d like your blessing. We want to stay on and help run the ranch and keep it safe. You know I’m the best cow herder on this whole spread. I mean ’ceptin’ Mickey of course.”

			
Maria smacked her head with her hand. “What next? Is somebody going to say they robbed a bank?”

			
That’s when Yellow Fly, who had let his braids grow down past his belt these past few years, stepped up. “Missus, I also have something to say.”

			
Maria moaned, “I need to sit down.” Walter, Yellow Fly’s brother, ran a chair over from the porch. She flopped right down in it.

			
“You know I will stay, and so will my brother,” Yellow Fly said, not moving a muscle, “but there’s something else you should know, Missus.”

			
“Jesu Cristo Maria! Is it bad news?” she asked, even though she didn’t want to know.

			
“No, it’s good news! Lucia is carrying my son.”

			
“What?”

			
“We became man and wife in the tradition of my people.” Lucia lowered her bandana, and proud as a peacock, showed everybody the four lines that were tattooed from her mouth down her chin.

			
Joe, always slow and easy, kinda shook his head and laughed low. “Well, this will be one helluva ranch family.”

			
Everybody knew what he meant. They’d made marriages of every kind—and none of them what you’d call “normal.” Woman/woman. Black/white. Ute/and whatever the hell Lucia the orphan girl was. Imagine it: a tattooed four-foot-high woman, a bald woman in man’s clothes, a man with hair longer than any woman’s, and a Negro boss, name of Smith, all running a ranch in Colorado handed over to them by “filthy WOP immigrants”.

			
“I need to think about all this,” Maria said. “I need to think.” She had figured the ranch hands would want to stay, and maybe one of her sons would beg to stay because they loved the cattle drives, loved the horses, and the outdoor-hard-work way of life. She knew she’d have to force them to leave no matter what. She knew all that. 

			
She thought she had carefully planned for the future of the Circle Double Bar A Ranch. But she hadn’t planned on any of this.

			
Maybe it is God’s will, and it will all work out. Or not.

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 38 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 38 –

			
The Blue Blues

			
Pueblo, Colorado 

			
October 28, 1923 

			
The wagon carrying their goods for the train trip to New York was overloaded, but it was underloaded considering the rancher’s lives they had left behind and the city life they were facing.

			
Maria had carefully packed the good dishes she’d bought at Handle’s Emporium. She treasured them. They weren’t fine china or anything, but they were the first purchase she’d made when they finally had a little money to spare. These dishes, painted with birds and flowers, represented the good life to her and symbolized where the family had come from and what they had built.

			
She also took the embroidered linens that she and her own mother had sewn. She even packed her wine glasses. 

			
She ordered the family to leave behind whatever fancy duds they’d acquired—there just wasn’t room for everything. 

			
She thought—they all thought—they’d be back; that this Brooklyn town was just what you’d call a temporary hideout. When the families made peace, they’d be back, she kept saying over and over. 

			
If Mama said it, it must be true—right? She’d led them through the worst and the best because she was stronger than any man. She’d kept most of them alive when nature, enemies, and God Himself had tried to kill them off.

			
One-Eye Walnut Jack and Antonella stood with cranky Helen and Silas Smith, Yellow Fly, and Lucia in front of the house. They were all weeping.

			
Mickey, who was driving the wagon, and Walter, who would be driving the sedan with the family, were near hysterical as the final bundles were loaded onto the wagon. Flo and Blue squeezed in next to Mickey, and little Clara climbed on top of the bundles. 

			
“We’re going to a new adventure,” Maria said in her best broken English, holding back a mountain of tears big as the Greenhorn itself. Then, in Sicilian, “God willing, it will be good. I was very unhappy when I first came to this place Colorado. And look at how we prospered. The city could turn out good too.”

			
As the wagon lurched forward and the sedan moved out, the screams and cries from those remaining behind could probably be heard all the way to Brooklyn.

			
For the first time in maybe forever, the family began to doubt that Maria really believed what she had just said. What could be better than the big outdoors, the mountains, the woods, their horses, their cattle, their goats?

			
Laura was already mourning the beautiful dresses she’d had to leave behind. There’d never be a place to wear such finery in this Brooklyn. She’d read about it. It was crowded, dirty, and poor.

			
Joe worried that he’d have to find work as a laborer. No call for cattle drovers in New York.

			
Peter, fully healed now except for a bunch of scars on his body, figured he’d survived the worst, and he’d make the best of it in the city. Everybody loved Peter. He just assumed they’d love him in the big city too.

			
Austin wondered and worried. What would become of a man who had the fits and wasn’t able to read and write much? Would Mama always be there to protect him?

			
Little Clara was excited. New school, new friends, and new dances to learn!

			
But Flo? She was not happy. Would she and Blue have a prairie to roam in a place like a city? Would Blue have to be—God forbid—tied up so she wouldn’t run away or be run down by a sedan car? Would she be allowed to bring Blue to school with her every day? Would she have to tie her up in back of the schoolhouse? No, none of that was good. A city couldn’t be good for her and Blue.

			
The train station was crowded and full of more people than most of them had ever seen in one place before. 

			
The fellas loaded their goods onto the train, and the ladies began to board. As Flo and Blue started climbing the high steps into the train car, both Maria and the conductor, who was wearing what looked to Flo like a policeman’s uniform—and they sure didn’t trust policemen—stopped them.

			
Flo looked to her mama. What the heck is going on? Does he want Blue to go in the train car with the baggage? No way!

			
Maria bent down on the platform and hugged Flo. Why was Mama crying? Was the policeman going to arrest them?

			
“Gioia du me cori, Blue non pò veniri cu nui. Nun si ponnu puttari i lupi ‘nto trenu e nun si ponnu puttari i lupi a Brook-a-land, New York.”—My darling baby girl, Blue cannot go with us. They don’t allow wolves on the train, and they don’t allow wolves in Brooklyn, New York.

			
What is Mama saying? It is not possible that Blue couldn’t go with her. No. Not possible. Flo hugged Blue tighter like she’d never let her go. 

			
It started to dawn on her that they thought she could leave her other mother—her wolf mother—behind. 

			
Flo tried to bite the conductor’s leg, but Maria grabbed her away before the conductor knew what she was trying to do. Nor did he understand when mother and child started carrying on with each other in Sicilian.

			
“Mama!” Flo cried, reverting to Sicilian. “Would you stay behind and send your children to this Brooklyn place? Would you? Well, Blue is my mama, too, and she won’t let you take me away from her.” 

			
She paused and gave them all a positively feral look. “And I won’t let you take me from my mama or abandon her. She can’t go back to her pack. She’ll die out there. She’ll be a lone wolf!” 

			
Flo grabbed Blue’s fur and tried to run. 

			
Maria stopped her by pulling her back by the collar of her dress. She knew she couldn’t try to reason with the child because what Flo had said was the God’s honest truth. Blue had declared herself Flo’s mother on the night of her birth, which was only the first time she saved the child from death. Blue had saved both Flo and Clara from the flood and had taken a bullet for them, probably shot by a child-slaver, as they tried to make their way home. That wolf had done as much for Flo, more even, than a human mother could have done. 

			
Maria knew she’d never be able to get through to her beloved daughter, so tears poured down her face as well. Pulling Flo and Blue apart would be, as the wise child had said, like abandoning your own mother to the wild. 

			
Determined, kicking, and fighting to get her mother’s hand off of her, Flo screamed, “I’m going home then! I’ll live with Mickey and Antonella and Walnut Jack. They love me, and they love Blue, and you don’t!” 

			
Then, she broke free as the collar of her dress ripped away, and she and Blue took off running on the tracks as fast as the wind. Joe and Peter dropped what they were doing and ran after them. A train heading in the opposite direction was coming their way. Flo would be torn in half.

			
Peter caught up to them and grabbed Flo up just as the train came barreling through.

			
“Blue! Blue!” Flo screamed, but she couldn’t see her. The train was now covering the track where she and Blue had been running.

			
Flo kicked and screamed and punched Joe. “Blue is my mama and my guardian angel, and you killed her. I hate you. I want my Blue!” 

			
She was not to be comforted. Not by Joe, not by Peter. When they carried her, fighting like a wild beast, onto the train and Maria tried to hold her and comfort her as the train lurched forward, Flo kicked her mother. “I hate you! I hate Brooklyn. I hate everybody. Blue! I want my Blue. You killed Blue.”

			
Clara looked shocked and started wailing too. “Blue. You killed Blue?” she cried, echoing her sister’s words and heartbreak.

			
Despite the tight hold Maria had on her, Flo broke free and ran to the back of the train car where the couplers connected. Peter ran after her and grabbed her just before she either jumped off or had her legs crushed between the cars. 

			
Flo scrambled to the open window, but Joe took hold of her as she tried to climb out. She screamed, “Blue!” As she struggled, they saw, through the gap between the cars, the absolute impossible. Blue was not dead but was running at top speed next to the train. The wolf ran and ran until the train gathered up enough speed that even she couldn’t keep up and collapsed on the ground.

			
“Blooooo!” Flo screamed. It had been the first sound she made when Blue had come to her rescue on the night of her birth. It was the last sound she made when she abandoned her beloved Blue to what she knew, if she had lived, would be the worst fate possible: that of a lone wolf. 

			
Flo’s red lips lost all their color as she opened them to howl.

			
“Blooooooo….”

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 39 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 39 –

			
Trains, Plains, and Automobiles

			
Colorado to New York

			
October 31, 1923

			
There was no comforting that wild child. And when there was no comforting that wild child, there was no comforting Clara either. What Flo felt, Clara felt. 

			
Clara loved Blue and owed her life to her, but it was clear that Blue was Flo’s alone—like little Bella Ragazza the donkey had been Clara’s alone. Clara put her head on Flo’s shoulder and said, “I lost my own other mama in the flood, and now I lost my aunt, too, ’cause that’s what I always figgered Blue was to me. Just like Zia Cologera but with blue eyes and fur.” 

			
That got them to crying and screaming even worse than before. Flo refused to speak to Maria or eat a bite of the food her mama had brought aboard. Peter and Joe snuck the conductor money to buy food for Flo and asked him to give it to her outside of their mother’s sight. 

			
Flo was happy to eat the conductor’s food, just not her mama’s, who she had decided was the worst mother in the world.

			
They all saw it, but no one told Flo that she no longer had ruby-red lips. She was behaving wild enough without adding a new weird thing that might make her crazier. Only once did Clara touch her sister’s lips and make mention of it. “Hmmm. One day you and me will have to buy some of that lipstick we seen in Helen’s magazine,” she said.

			
Flo didn’t bother to question it. She was in mourning and didn’t give two hoots what she—or anybody else—looked like. 

			
The train trip was tough enough on everyone without the sisters crying, screaming, and carrying on all day long every day. Only baby Carlotta was quiet. That child was so good, it was like she was afraid that if she kicked up a fuss, her grandmother, like her mother before her, would abandon her. 

			
Maria felt the baby’s pain, so she’d just kiss her over and over again and whisper, “Bedda, dolce bedda.” 

			
The other two little girls were miserable, thinking their world had come to an end, and they hated being confined in the train. They had no idea that the tin lizard (as they’d heard their brothers call the train) taking them east was pure luxury compared to the human cattle car Maria and Rosaria had ridden in coming west. 

			
To distract herself from how she’d broken Flo’s heart, Maria would think about how terrible the trip from New York to Colorado had been and how their lives had changed on this trip back. Was it only fourteen years ago? 

			
Instead of fighting for a seat and sleeping on the floor with their children when a seat couldn’t be found, this train had leather seats, polished brass handrails, and wood tables. Heck, it even had a flush toilet in a little room at the back instead of a slop bucket in a slop closet. 

			
But what really bowled her over was the notion that a train could have sleeping compartments and a dining car. A whole room just for eating? Not that Maria used it. She had brought their food, because who would trust food made by strangers? She slept in her seat with a money belt stuffed under her corset and a gun in her carpet bag. There was no way on God’s green earth that she’d let some desperado sneak up on her as she snoozed in a sleeper car. Besides as every damned fool knew, it was easier to shoot a thief when you were sitting up than lying down.

			
But neither desperados trying to hold them up inside the train nor bandits trying to hold them up from the outside, turned out to be the problem. The problem was the lethal combination of her own little disperati and all the well-off American city slickers who were traveling on the same train. 

			
The men looked like they worked as managers for the mine owners back home, and the women looked like they’d spent too much time in school. Even though they looked very proper and polite, they weren’t. And they made it clear that they didn’t want to be traveling with “loud, uncivilized Eye-ties,” which was another slang that the upper classes seemed to think was hilarious. And so, they complained. About everything. 

			
Those men in their fancy suits griped to the overworked Negro conductors about how “those immigrants” (that would be the Barberas) had two filthy, kinky-haired little brats who were screaming and crying. The other group (their do-gooder wives) complained that “those little WOP girls are being walloped to within an inch of their lives by the mother.” They told the conductors to “do something to stop the beatings!” 

			
Negro conductors were not about to put white folks in their place—even if they were dark-skinned white folk. And besides, the children weren’t getting beaten. They were just upset.

			
They knew why the little sisters were carrying on. Flo had told the conductor—his name was Samuel—why they’d been crying and fussing: She was mourning her Blue. But her pet wolf wasn’t something the other passengers would have cared about, or believed, anyway. 

			
When they’d left Colorado, frost was already on the ground, but the further east they travelled, the steamier it got. Dispositions were heating up like the air around them. 

			
Peter joked to his brothers, “No wonder they call it ‘temper-ature.’”

			
Their clothes didn’t help. Men were in suits and the ladies—who had squeezed themselves into “modern” rubber girdles—were so hot they felt like they were trapped in a Turkish bath house. By the time it was nearing 100 degrees inside, tempers were shorter than Princess Wee-Wee at the carnival. Something was bound to give. And that something was Maria’s home-brought food. There were whole cheeses, salamis, and prosciutto loaves that were so big they were the size of small kids. 

			
The hotter it got, the smellier the grub got—especially the Taleggio cheese. Truthfully, yes, it does smell like cowboy socks, but to the Italians, the over-ripe cheese smelled as fine as French perfume. To the Americans, it smelled like stink on a stick.

			
After a day of the lady passengers complaining about his mama’s food, Peter decided to take matters into his own hands. He got up—his leg was all healed up by then—and walked with his long, slow stride to the back of the carriage where two of those gossiping, griping, women were seated. One looked as sour as a pickle and the other as sweet and luscious as a bottle of store-bought honey. 

			
“Which of you fine ladies been complainin’ ’bout my mother,” he asked, somehow making it sound like he was flirting. 

			
The pretty one blushed and said, “Well, don’t you look like Clark Gable!”

			
“I appreciate that ma’am, and you sure are pretty as Clara Bow the movie star yourself. Now I must say—and don’t take this wrongly—I just can’t have anybody bad-talkin’ my kin, most particularly my mama.”

			
“Well, sir,” the pretty one started in, but Peter put a long, elegant finger up to his lips to stop her from going further. 

			
“Dear ladies, I sure am so sorry about the noise my little sisters is makin’ too. But I’d have more success hollerin’ down a well than trying to keep those girls quiet. See, they ain’t bein’ beat or bein’ bad. Those poor little girls, they just lost their dog on the railroad tracks. That pup was so upset about us leaving that she chased the train until she collapsed on the track. And those poor young ‘uns are mighty, mighty sad.” 

			
The pretty one said, “Oh my. I’m so sorry about that.” And then she batted her eyelashes so fast it looked like she had dirt in her eye.

			
Peter gave her that sideways grin of his—the one he knew was a lady killer. Then he leaned in and said really low, “As for Mama, well ladies, she’s off-limits. I just don’t cotton to nobody—even two beauties like yourselves—saying anything about her that ain’t pleasin’.” 

			
He winked, and those ladies got so flustered they looked like they were about to faint. In fact, Sour Pickle did, in fact, pass out for a few seconds. He knew it wasn’t the boiling hot temperature in the carriage that brought on the fainting spell; it was his smile and bad-boy eyes. 

			
Only Peter could get away with telling two women he disapproved of their attitude while making them feel like he was making love to them.

			
It was right about then that the pretty one’s husband, who was fat as a whorehouse cat, walked over.

			
“Is there a problem young man?”

			
“No, not unless our conversation broke up your poker game,” Peter said, a twinkle in his eye as he tossed his head towards the game tables in the next car. 

			
“I’m sorry ’bout that,” he added, and everybody knew he didn’t mean one word of it.

			
Pretty Lady tried to hide her smirk behind her lace fan.

			
“I beg your pardon,” the portly must-be-mine manager said, particularly annoyed that an ignorant young man, who he assumed was fresh out of one of his company’s own mines, dared speak like that to a gentleman. 

			
Peter stuck out his hand, which Mine Manager shook like it was covered in slug slime. “Name’s Peter. Peter Barbera out of the Double Bar A Ranch in Trinidad.” He tipped his hat, “Ladies.”

			
“You don’t work the mines? You’re a cow hand?” Mine Manager asked, eyeing him suspiciously. “Yet your name is familiar—” 

			
“No. Never have worked them mines, thank the good Lord. We’re a cattle family. Sixteen hunnert head last time I looked.” 

			
Mine Manager was surprised and spit out, “But you’re Eye-talians right?” 

			
“You bet. You should join us one day for some of that real Eye-talian grub that my mama has brought.” The sarcasm was lost on those folks.

			
Even so, Peter could tell Pretty Lady was getting all smeary eyed. Without Mine Manager noticing, he gave her a sly look. 

			
Pretty Lady stood up, her silk dress rustling, setting Peter himself aflame.

			
“Darlin’, we’re just fine here,” she said to her husband, touching his sweaty face. “Young Peter was just explaining the situation with his little sisters—the ones who were making such a fuss.” She paused and moved her wet hand to her husband’s arm, sneakily drying her palm off, and said, “You go enjoy your game my love, and I’ll join you for supper later in the dining car. Six thirty?”

			
“I sure am truly sorry about all the noise, Mister, ah, I didn’t get your name,” Peter said, eyeing Pretty Lady and refusing to call her husband “sir.” 

			
Mine Manager didn’t give his name, shaking off the encounter as one of the inconveniences of travel——and headed back to his game.

			
No one knows what happened next, but Pretty Lady and Peter seemed to be missing for one whole hour. By suppertime, all the other ladies who were headed to the dining car swept by his seat, giggled, and said, “Good evening, Clark.”

			
Maria just shook her head. “You’re gonna get your coglioni shot off one of these days,” she warned in Sicilian. 

			
Peter nearly spit out his coffee and let out a guffaw that could be heard all the way back to where Pretty Lady was sitting with the ones Austin called, “The Peter Barbera Fan Club.” 

			
“Mama! Comu si dici cosi accussì?” Peter gasped.

			
She told him she didn’t learn how to neuter just farm animals in Colorado, so he’d better stop behaving like a bull or she’d do the job herself. His mother never failed to amaze and even, yes, scare him. 

			
Joe, standing nearby, tipped his ten-gallon to his brother and said, “You better mind Mama ’cause she means what she says. Who do you think was the one who decided old Wild Bull Hickock should become a steer?” He shot a look their mama’s way.

			
Peter smacked his head. “Veru, frati miu?”—Really, my brother?

			
Joe smirked and Peter instinctively grabbed his man parts. Austin came running up from his trip to the toilet, jumped in front of Peter, and whispered, but not nearly low enough, “Them ladies can see what you is doin’!” He continued in Sicilian: “Babbu! Apri l’occhi!”—Idiot! Open your eyes.

			
Maybe the ladies saw what Peter did and heard what Austin said and maybe they didn’t, but they weren’t complaining, at least not about that. Maria shook her head, raised her eyebrows, and tilted her head back towards the gaggle of married women. 

			
Despite what had gone on between Peter and Pretty Lady, not to mention all the complaining from other passengers (but not the ladies any longer), the train trip would remain an adventure the family would never forget.

			
Austin liked sitting next to his mama because, for one thing, without Blue, who’d been able to warn him a fit was coming on, he’d never know when he’d have an attack, so he wanted his mama nearby. 

			
For another, he also enjoyed looking out the window and talking with her about what they saw. He’d never been more than a few miles from home before, and the only “big” town he’d ever seen was Pueblo—which still hadn’t been fully rebuilt to its former glory by the time they’d left. 

			
They saw prairies, fields upon fields of harvested corn stalks, majestic snowcapped mountains, Indian settlements, and all that endless wildness. Animal herds roamed free, rivers ran wild, and wildflowers were still in bloom. The great swaths of undeveloped territory truly made this the land of plenty and, yet, Maria thought, they were leaving it all behind to go live in a crowded, noisy city—a place where they’d have to buy food instead of growing it. It was important to her for Austin to see, love, and appreciate it all—even from the train window—while he still could. She didn’t think her poor son would ever see these great, open spaces again.

			
Joe had seen a good part of the West already from his saddle on the cattle drives, but even to him, the scenery out the train window was sight after sight of wonder to behold. He felt that America was about the most beautiful land in the world. 

			
None of the big cities the train stopped in, like bustling Kansas City and St. Louis, Missouri, could compare in Joe’s mind to the wide-open spaces.

			
He’d seen Chicago when he was driving herds to the stockyards and was even less impressed with that city when the family changed trains there for the final leg to Grand Central Terminal in New York City. 

			
“Yeah, I’ve seen a city or two before,” he boasted, adding to his brothers, “They ain’t nothin’ but brick and noise and no sky.”

			
But to Laura, every city they passed looked like a golden paradise from the window of a train. As a bonus for her, the lady passengers often left the fashion magazines they’d already read in the dining car, and Laura read them cover to cover like they were the Bible. And to her they were—fashion bibles.

			
Flo and Clara didn’t care about magazines or the beauty of the landscapes. They only cared what they were leaving behind: their life with their beloved animals. The countryside out the windows looked to them like what they’d left, and the cities looked like places with too many people and probably too few wolves.

			
As the train got closer to New York, the conductor walked thru the cars as the sun was rising, crying, “Next stop Newark! Next stop Newark!” 

			
Maria stood up. “We’re in New York—everybody get your bags.” Before scrambling for them, the girls all looked out the window. This sure didn’t look like the New York City that Laura had shown them in a book. It looked ugly.

			
The conductor saw them pulling their suitcases down and stopped them. “No ma’am this isn’t New York, it’s Newark,” he said to Maria. It still sounded like he said, “New York” to them. 

			
“Are there two towns with the same name?” Flo asked him. 

			
“No, little girl,” he said, “We’re in New Jersey. We still have one final stop to go. This is the city of Newark, New Jersey, and next stop will be Grand Central Terminal in New York City, New York.” 

			
When the conductor heard the mine managers snickering at the family’s confusion, he, who hadn’t been treated like a human by those same men, added louder than necessary, “But I have to agree with you, ma’am. Newark…New York. They sure do sound the same—unless you been riding this route as long as I have.” 

			
The doors closed, the train rolled on, and it seemed in no time flat, that same conductor walked through the cars announcing, “Welcome to Grand Central Terminal, New York City, the grandest train station in the grandest city in the world!”

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 40 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 40 –

			
GRAND TO NOT SO GREAT

			
New York City, New York 

			
November 1923

			
And grand that terminal was indeed, with its soaring ceilings and what seemed like millions of people rushing here and there. Maria was terrified of losing the girls in the madness, and her grip on their hands was so tight they complained she’d break their bones. The sons who were carrying the bags worried that they didn’t have easy access to their guns should trouble erupt. 

			
And out of the crowd, sure enough, trouble approached: a long, lanky man in a wide-brimmed fedora came rushing towards them. His pants and jacket were rumpled and dirty, the brim of his stained hat pulled so low it cast a shadow over his whole face. Maria had been through enough bad behavior by traveling men back on the boat and at Ellis Island to know that this skinny man with a slight limp not only looked like trouble as he pushed through the crowd causing people to back away from him, he looked downright dangerous. How right she was. 

			
She signaled for her sons to drop the bags and reach into their pockets where they each had a gun. At first no one recognized the man. All they knew was that the dirty-looking fella didn’t belong among these fancy city slickers. 

			
The man stopped, pulled his hat off, and set his mouth into a grim attempt at a grin. Mariano!

			
He no longer looked like the robust, tough, dapper cowboy that had been ordered to leave Colorado. Now he just looked tired, drawn, skinny, and probably drunk. He was at least twenty-five pounds thinner. 

			
Without women to wash, iron, and tend to his duds, he looked like half a bum.

			
But I gave him money to buy as much food as he could ever eat. Even enough to eat in risturanti every night. Why does he look like he hasn’t eaten in a month? Maria wondered. It couldn’t be good, whatever the reason. 

			
Austin, who didn’t have much of a filter, whispered to his brothers loud enough for the sisters to hear, “Jesus and Joseph. Pa looks like he’s been chewed up, spit out, and stepped on.” Flo, Clara, and Laura got to laughing out loud, but the second Maria shot them a look, they shut up tighter than Charlie Chaplin’s wallet.

			
Austin was right, of course, but it just wasn’t funny—not to Maria, anyway.

			
She had gotten a telegram from her derelict husband while she was still back in Colorado saying he’d be there at the station to meet them, but there was a wide river between what Mariano said and what he did these days. She hadn’t put a whole helluva lotta stock that he’d be there when they reached the big city. The only thing that made her feel better about it was the assurance by Don Vito, who was ten thousand percent more reliable than her husband, that Mariano would be at the station. 

			
Thank God, at least my sister married a man who is true to his word, Maria thought. 

			
Peter, Joe, and Austin took their hands out of their pockets and picked the bags back up. The girls gave weak hugs. Maria just stood stone-faced. There just wasn’t a whole lot of love between that man and his kin.

			
The family followed Mariano through the crowd and then through the big doors that opened up into the heart of New York City. 

			
“Them buildings reach into the sky,” Flo said looking up in wonder. 

			
Clara answered, shielding her eyes from the glare, “There’s so many windows. Are the buildings made of glass? How come they don’t fall down?” It was dizzying.

			
Back down on earth, Mariano led them to his pickup truck, which he’d driven from Brooklyn to Manhattan. The brothers climbed in the back to clear away the bags of potatoes, crates of gagootz, and broccoli rabe. 

			
“Where is the grass? Where are the fields?” Clara wanted to know. Mariano told her they were in a place called Central Park.

			
“Chi è chistu Central Park-a??”—What is this Central Park?—Maria asked. Mariano explained that the president of New York City put all the grass and fields in places called parks.

			
Flo piped up, “You mean like grass museums? Is the grass allowed to leave? Do they have wolves?”

			
Joe scooped her up in his arms, pulled her into the back of the pickup, flopped her down in his lap, and planted a fat kiss on her cheek. “If you ain’t the cutest thing this side of the Rockies, I don’t know who is!”

			
“Joe, is our new house in Central Park?” Clara wanted to know. 

			
“No, no it ain’t sweetie pie. No, it ain’t.”

			
Peter helped Maria, who was holding baby Carlotta, into the front seat, while the rest piled into the open bed in back. 

			
They drove along for well over an hour, until they reached Red Hook, Brooklyn.

			
It was clear to anybody with a brain that this Red Hook place was about the furthest thing you could imagine from the pastures, meadows, and fields of the Double Bar A.

			
Here were tough streets, not valleys. Instead of cows and horses in the fields, there was everything from horseless carriages to horse-drawn wagons traveling on cobblestone streets, carrying everything from food to horse manure. But this manure didn’t even have the same smell as the manure up in Colorado, which they always found to be what the perfume advertisements called “fragrant.” Clara sniffed and made a face. “This here don’t smell like horse cocky. It smells like dead people.”

			
From the mouths of babes as they say. It was easy to see—and feel—that Red Hook was a treacherous and deadly place. It was, as Maria had been told, filled with Mafiosi “families.” Don Vito had also warned her that in New York City, of which Brooklyn was only one area, Sicilians weren’t the only ones in the bootlegging business like they had been in Las Animas County, Colorado. In fact, he estimated the Italians controlled only about a quarter of the business here. Their biggest rivals were the Jewish gangs that controlled fifty percent, while the Irish had ten percent. 

			
Sometimes they cooperated with one another, and sometimes they just killed each other.

			
Every block Mariano turned onto brought fresh, new shocks. People begging, children without shoes, women and their children in rags huddled together on stoops seemingly without anywhere to go. 

			
On the bigger streets, men pushing wooden carts filled with vegetables, rags, pig carcasses, fruits, and smaller loads of manure fought for space with the horse-drawn buggies, motorized trucks, and cars. A few feral dogs were sniffing around, trying to snatch meat off the carts, but they were beaten back with sticks, which caused Flo to start screaming at the dog-beaters before bursting into tears. Wherever they could carve out space, there were kids playing Ringolevio, Kick the Can, and Potsy—games the Barberas had never seen before. 

			
Even the sidewalks were crowded. Vegetable stands, ladies pushing baby carriages, and vendors hawking pots and pans, as well as every kind of household item, and medicines guaranteed to cure everything from tuberculosis to whooping cough to rheumatism. 

			
Mariano turned onto Union Street and slowed down; everyone was hoping that this wasn’t where their new house would be, but they all felt in their guts that it most likely was. Union Street was noisy, it was crowded, and it had a murderous feel to it. 

			
Clara and Flo started to cry again. No grass, no mountains, no wolves. No open spaces, no mooing cattle, just the clomp of beaten-down horses, folks yelling to buy their wares, babies crying, and angry drivers cursing in every language at each other while blowing their horns. 

			
“Why is everybody so mad?” Flo wanted to know. 

			
“They ain’t all mad—well some of ’em are,” Peter said. “They’re just in a hurry to get someplace fast. Where? Who knows?” 

			
Laura only saw beauty. The fashions worn by the goomahs—the mistresses of local Mafiosi—dazzled her. Short silk dresses, flapper hats pulled down low, shoes with rhinestone buckles and heels so high you could touch the sky, and yes, silk stockings. 

			
“Where can I buy me some of those dresses?” Laura wanted to know and managed to duck the swift backhand of her mother. 

			
“They puttani,” Maria scolded. 

			
“Like you would know,” Laura whispered, sulking to no one in particular.

			
“I hear you say!” Maria said. “I am know puttani when I seen puttani!” She then glared at her husband who kept looking straight ahead at the road in front of him.

			
“You better be taking us to a nicer place than this,” Maria warned Mariano who said nothing in return but looked cowed. 

			
Joe whistled low, Austin looked the other way, and Peter smirked and whispered to his brothers, “Fellas, if a lady could be a sheriff in this town, her name would be Mama.”

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 41 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 41 –

			
Brook-a-Land

			
Red Hook, Brooklyn, New York 

			
1923

			
Mariano stopped the truck in front of 151 Union Street. “Welcome to Red ’ook, Brook-a-land!” he said, waving his arms around in front of the tenement building that had a panini shop on the bottom floor. The sign painted in gold on the window read, “Ferdinando’s Focacceria.” Then underneath it, “Founded 1904.”

			
“Since when do we eat in a taverna?” Maria wanted to know. “I want to see our house. We have work to do. No time for sitting with your goombahs drinking wine.” 

			
Mariano looked confused. “Goombahs? No! Chista è lu novu appartamentu.”—This is our new apartment.

			
“We’re going to live in a taverna?” Flo asked, looking as confused as the rest. Even she knew that the only people who lived above taverns were what they called “fancy ladies.”

			
Clara asked, “Will those gals with painted faces who walk around in their corsettu live with us?”

			
Flo, wanting to show off that she knew all about it, piped up and said, “Clara, you mean, prustituti! That’s the real name of fancy ladies with painted faces who only wear underwear and no dresses.”

			
Maria smacked her own head. True, in Pueblo, the only taverna she knew of did have a brothel upstairs. Well, until the flood swept the place away, along with all the puttani, including her husband’s mistress. 

			
Mariano explained that Ferdinando’s Focacceria was not a taverna but a respectable ristorante serving paninis to the dock workers in the day and then early supper to families. He said their new home was upstairs. Everyone looked at each other, stunned. 

			
Furious, Maria said in Sicilian, “You took our money—the money I saved and gave you to buy us a house. Instead, you bought a building with a taverna?”

			
Mariano, now equal parts angry that he was being questioned and ashamed that he’d done what he’d done with the money, shouted back, “Brook-a-land é caru!”—Brooklyn is expensive! 

			
“Caru? It’s so filthy that they should pay us to live here!” Maria shouted back in Sicilian.

			
Mariano countered. “That’s what you said about the mines, and look how rich I made you.”

			
“You made us?” Sensing Maria’s anger, Carlotta started wailing as Maria fought back her own tears. 

			
She was reminded of the words that her beloved, murdered sister-in-law, Rosaria, had said to her when they first arrived in the filthy Colorado mining town: “Come inizi, così finisci.”—As you start, so you finish. 

			
Rosaria’s prediction back then had, in fact, turned out to be worse than any of them could have ever imagined, but in time, it became better than any of them could have hoped for. It had become a good life. A very good life.

			
That was mostly because Maria had fought to keep her children from languishing in the land where the streets were paved not with gold but with coal and blood.

			
Would she be able to do the same thing here where the streets were paved with cobblestones and also with blood? 

			
As they all stared down at the unfamiliar stones embedded in the street, Joe explained that the stones had once been what they called “ballast” that kept empty cargo ships from capsizing as they crossed the oceans en route to New York. 

			
“They came in empty and went back full to the brim with American goods,” Joe explained.

			
Like us, Maria thought. We came here empty, hoping to become full of the good things America could provide. 

			
The blood? That came from the same place as it had in Colorado: greed.

			
Time will tell, she thought.

			
The family grabbed as many of their belongings as they could each handle and climbed out of the truck. Maria took the gun from her carpet bag, laid it on the seat, and told Laura to stay with the truck and shoot anyone who tried to steal anything.

			
“But Ma!” Laura cried. “I didn’t come here to kill people.” 

			
Maria gave her the look, and Laura picked up the gun. “Right. Shoot anybody who tries to steal from us.”

			
They carried their things up the dark, rickety stairs, with the boys carrying the heaviest loads. When they reached the second-floor landing, Mariano stopped in front of a brown door that had been painted over many times. It had “2A” scrawled in pencil in the middle. They all held their breath as he inserted the key into the lock and turned it several times until the bolt gave way. 

			
The same thought was running through everyone’s mind: What is behind this door?

			
When he shoved the warped door open with all his might, the whole family was struck dumb at what little they could see of the inside.

			
“What the hell?” Peter whispered under his breath, Joe showed no emotion, and Austin started shaking. He dropped between the stair landing and the open apartment door, foaming at the mouth.

			
Maria handed baby Carlotta to little Flo, knelt next to her boy, reached into her bag, grabbed the spoon she kept in there for these incidents, and stuck it in his mouth to keep him from biting off his tongue. As Austin was shaking and foaming, another tenant on the floor came out of her apartment to gawk. She was wearing only a thin, pink silk slip, had peroxide-blonde, finger-waved hair, red painted lips, and eyebrows that were plucked thin as blades of grass.

			
Mariano started screaming in Sicilian. “Take this circus freak inside. He disgraces me. No one can know we have un figlio idiota in famiglia!”

			
Even in her frenzied state, Maria managed to say, “Who—the puttana?”

			
Maria turned to the woman and snapped, “You! Stop looking at us. Go inside before I shoot you.” 

			
The woman scurried back inside but called out from behind her door in a southern drawl, “Mario, honey. Do something!”

			
Different place, same old shit, Maria realized. It was a theme that would be repeated many times in this new Brook-a-Land place. 

			
As she tended to her son, Maria managed to say, “I’ll deal with her in a minute,” then to Mariano, “Tu sì la disgrazia, non lu nostru pòviru figghiu.”—You are the disgrace, not our poor son.

			
When Austin eventually stopped seizing, Maria got him to his feet. The brothers helped him inside, but then almost wished they hadn’t. They tried hard not to gasp as they surveyed their new home. Gasping would have only made their mama feel worse. Four rooms, nine people, including the infant, the only sink was in the tiny kitchen that had a coal stove and a small broken table with two chairs. The filthy windows had a view of endless lines of wash strung from broken-down building to broken-down building so they couldn’t even see the ground below. The toilet, Mariano explained, was down the hall, and all the tenants shared it. As for the bedrooms, he was happy to announce that there were two. He didn’t have to explain the mattresses covering the floor. They spoke for themselves.

			
Going from acres of prairie, herds of cattle, and a big ranch house to a four- room walk-up apartment in a crowded, dirty city was, for the family (and most especially Flo and Clara), like being sent to prison. Maria, who had thought she couldn’t be more disgusted with her husband after they were forced to leave Colorado, looked around that tenement and realized that disgust was a well without a bottom.

			
She had turned from a bride who couldn’t bear to have her man out of her sight to a wife who couldn’t bear the sight of him. 

			
She also knew she would have to make the best of it, just as she always had…for her children’s sake. 

			
At the same time, she feared “the best” might well be behind them. Even though she had fought against Helen staying in Colorado and marrying a man three times her age, she was now relieved that she had stayed and escaped this horror. This Brook-a-land. This New York. 

			
At least we own the building, shitty as it is, she thought. Maybe Helen and Lucia and their husbands will come to live with us once I fix the building up and get rid of the no-good tenants. 

			
She then put her hands on her hips and announced to her no-account husband that the first thing she was going to do was throw out the prostitute and take over that apartment so they’d have more room. As she headed to the door to confront the woman, Mariano stopped her. “No, you can’t throw her out,” he said, hemming and hawing as Maria ripped his arm away. 

			
“No? Just watch me,” she spit out and walked out into the hallway.

			
It took Mariano only two long strides to grab his tiny wife and spin her around, holding tighter this time so she couldn’t move. He looked first at his sons who’d come out to stop the fight, then back at her, as she struggled without success to break away.

			
Marian the Barbarian put his head down and uttered a phrase no one had ever heard come out of his mouth before:

			
“I’m sorry.” 

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 42 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 42 –

			
Double Or Nuthin’ Leaves Nuthin’

			
Red Hook, Brooklyn, New York

			
Same Day

			
“The safe way to double your money is to fold it over once and put it in your pocket.”

			
—Will Rogers, Humorist/Citizen of the Cherokee Nation 

			
Maria felt her stomach drop and her heart speed up. We’ve lost it all. Again.

			
She stopped struggling, and Mariano loosened his grip, giving Maria the chance to spin around and get right up into his face. 

			
“I’m sorry?” she seethed, her eyes squinting shut, her fists at her sides, balled up in anger. She’d lived with this man long enough to know what Mariano’s first and only apology had to mean.

			
“You are sorry for what, exactly?” she spit out anyway, wanting him to admit what he’d done in front of his children. Mariano just looked down, rolling his hat around in his hands, so she demanded, “You didn’t even buy this building—did you?” 

			
He said nothing.

			
“And you lost the money I gave you?” Again, he didn’t answer as the rest of the family stood still, sickened at this possible, newest betrayal by their father. 

			
“I had a business opportunity,” he said in Sicilian, trying to excuse himself with an air of confidence, but failing miserably. “It was a sure thing,” he continued, “I could have doubled our money.”

			
“A sure thing?” she seethed waving her hands. “It broke my heart to leave my daughters, my only grandson, and everything behind. All because of you. Now you bring us to this dirty building with no space to breathe? Over a taverna with puttana next door? Our cattle lived better than this. And you didn’t even buy it. Make no mistake. I will telegram Don Vito. Let’s see what he says.”

			
Mariano stopped pretending he had any remorse. He was still her husband, her boss. How dare she think she could disgrace him in front of his sons. “You wouldn’t do that,” he said, ready to strike but fearful of her words at the same time. “You wouldn’t dare to do that.” 

			
“I don’t make threats,” she said, flicking her fingers under her chin at him.

			
He raised his fist to hit her, but Joe and Peter jumped between them like men separating brawlers in a bar fight—Peter facing Maria, Joe facing Mariano.

			
Clara had experienced her father’s fists firsthand, but Flo had always had Blue to protect her—now she, too, was gone. The little girls ran, terrified, out of the apartment, down the stairs, and out into the street. Never having had to watch out for traffic before, they sprinted at top speed out of the building’s front door and into the street.

			
Trucks, cars, and horse-drawn wagons barreled towards them. Once they realized what they’d done, they froze in fear in the middle of the road. A sedan swerved, just missing them, a horse reared up and galloped around them, a truck, too high for the driver to see little girls standing in the road, was still heading in their direction. The sisters felt themselves being lifted up off the ground as a loud male voice commanded, “Ferma!”

			
God’s voice, thought Flo, and recited the best prayer she knew, hoping God’s mother would pass the message along to her son so he could save them. “Hail Mary, full of grapes, the lord is a tree.” 

			
The man who’d grabbed them wasn’t God, but he was as close as you could find to Him on that wretched street.

			
It was a giant of a man in a white apron, and he had risked his own life by running into the road, scooping up both girls with one massive arm, and rushing them out of harm’s way. Realizing it wasn’t God, but a human man running away with them, Flo did what Blue had taught her to do when a predator threatened. She bit at him and growled like a feral beast as little Clara screamed, “Help! We’re being kidnapped!” 

			
The man’s free hand reached around and covered Clara’s mouth to shut her up, which made Flo kick him in the shins. Still, he didn’t let go as he tried to maneuver them out of the street and onto the sidewalk.

			
The brothers heard the shouting from inside the tenement building and came running down the rickety stairs three at a time. Joe pulled the girls out of the big man’s grip, as Peter and Austin wrestled him to the ground and began pummeling him. 

			
The man’s head started bleeding, and his long white apron was spattered with blood, but he was still struggling. 

			
A woman, her apron splattered not with blood but with red sauce, her hands white with flour, came running out of the restaurant screaming, attempting without luck to pull the brothers off the man. 

			
“They was a’tryin’ to run in-a street with-a the cars,” the beaten man tried to explain as the woman kicked Austin in the seat of his new pants. A crowd had formed, everyone yelling at once. Several men jumped in, cursing the brothers and trying to pull them off the man. 

			
Over the din, came another cry. “Cosa sta succedendo qui?”—What happened here? The crowd looked up as a tiny woman and a tall, gaunt man burst out of the building’s front door—Maria and Mariano. 

			
“Cosa sta succedendo qui?” Maria repeated while trying to keep Mariano from jumping in with her sons, who were still holding down the bleeding man.

			
The lady in the apron called for someone to bring rags to stop the bleeding, “Questo è mio marito,”—This is my husband—she said. “The bambini was be killed!” she cried in her best English. “Mio marito grab-ba ragazzine for the runover.” 

			
The boys loosened their grip as everyone—including Flo and Clara—stopped moving, ashamed of the mess they’d created. The man had only tried to save their lives. 

			
“Caro Dio! Per favore perdonaci, Signora,” Joe begged the lady, apologizing for what they’d mistakenly done. 

			
“Voi animali!” she spat back at him as she tried to lift her husband off the sidewalk. 

			
They begged her to let them lift him for her. People in the raucous crowd were becoming more unruly; the men who’d tried to break up the fight yelling and shaking their fists at the Barberas.

			
“I saw Ferdinando risk his own life to rescue those girls,” one shouted. Others agreed but said they had also seen the brothers rush out after hearing the little girls’ cries that they were being abducted. Others spoke in whispers that one of the children had growled like a wolf, another swore she heard her howl. 

			
Mavara? Strega?

			
Seeing that another situation was developing among the crowd itself, the woman in the apron nodded her head at the brothers but never changed her expression. Joe, Austin, and Peter lifted the man carefully and carried him back inside as the lady held a rag to his bleeding head. They laid the poor guy on the serving bar near the front door, which was a terrible reminder of how Peter had, several months back, been laid atop the counter at Bratton’s. 

			
Maria touched the woman’s hand and told her how sorry she was and tried to thank her for what her husband had done. The woman shrugged her off and pushed her away, white flour handprints remaining on Maria’s black dress.

			
The woman told a terrified young boy, whose school papers were scattered on the floor, to hurry and fetch the doctor.

			
The doctor arrived in what seemed like seconds. He took control of the situation immediately, and, in Sicilian, ordered the crowd of onlookers to disperse. This man was no Doc Dawson. For one thing, he wasn’t drunk, and for another, he was Italian. Dr. Alessio Polito, a distinguished sort of gentleman in a crisp white shirt, bow tie, and good suit, examined the injured man and declared, “Just a busted lip, a bad cut on his head, and he’ll have a black eye, but he’ll live.” 

			
He sent someone to chip pieces of ice from the giant block in the restaurant’s ice box while he cleaned and stitched up the battered man’s lip and wrapped gauze around his head. Dr. Polito told Flo and Clara to stand on chairs so they could hold the ice packs on the man. The girls climbed up on the chairs, each praying that the chore would last all day because they knew that as soon as it was done, their mama would smack their backsides but good for running into the street. 

			
Not what you’d call a good start in a bad neighborhood.

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 43 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 43 –

			
A Panelle for Your Thoughts

			
Red Hook, Brooklyn, New York

			
Same Day

			
Clara saw—but did not say—that just before the truck was about to run them down, Flo’s lips had turned back to ruby red. But when she looked at her sister now, her mouth was once again as pale as it had been since losing Blue. 

			
Clara thought, Must have been my ermaginator.

			
Maria thought, We have caused all this trouble on our first day in New York City.

			
Dr. Polito thought, Just another typical day in Red Hook. 

			
As Dr. Polito was packing up his medical bag to leave, the beaten man’s wife moved to the back of the counter and brought up a basket covered in a red and white checkered cloth. The aromas of fresh-cooked pasta con sarde mingled with still-warm bread. Her husband had prepared it for the social club across the street where the neighborhood mobsters hung out, but instead she gave it to the doctor. 

			
They’ll understand, the woman thought as she followed the doctor to the door, thanking him again. Everybody from the mobsters to the bishop loved Dr. Polito.

			
The doctor stepped out, the sweet tinkling of the little bell above the door mingling with the chaotic noise of the street outside, and he was gone. 

			
Maria, whose whole life was waiting to be unpacked, had had nothing in hand to offer the doctor but swore to herself that she’d never forget this kindness.

			
And she never did. 

			
The man lying on the bar, banged up and bandaged as he was, managed to wink at the little girls holding the ice. “No worry,” he said. “Yous-a bambini did right. Who know what means if uomo strano grab-ba you?” He was trying to tell them it was good that they knew to fight back when a stranger grabbed them.

			
Signora Buffa, his wife, was not as conciliatory and stared daggers at the violent family who had created such a mess before they had even officially moved in.

			
“You come here, first day you fight. No good. You fight again, and I make sure the landlord throw you in-a the street.”

			
Maria responded in Sicilian, “Dear Lady, we are good people. Country people, farmers. My children don’t know the ways of the city yet, and the little ones thought they were being stolen.” 

			
Maria shook her head at her family and vowed, “I promise, Signora, no more violence.” 

			
At that, the door swung open and Laura, who had been hiding in the truck, burst through, gun drawn, hands shaking. 

			
The lady screamed and Maria grabbed the gun out of Laura’s hand, which went off, shooting a bullet into the floor. 

			
“No more violence?” the woman scolded in Sicilian. “You are violent, uncouth people.”

			
“Mi dispiace, Signora,” Maria apologized as she lay a reassuring hand on the lady’s shoulder.

			
“Go,” the woman bristled at them, shaking off Maria’s hand. “Don’na touch me, don’na touch mio marito, and don’na come back ‘ere. Never no mo’.”

			
They understood and turned towards the door.

			
Normally Mariano would have beaten the three girls for the turmoil they’d created—and Austin just for the hell of it—but now all he wanted was to get away from them all. 

			
He stuck his hat back on his head and sulked out the door before the rest of the family, as though he was just respecting the restaurant lady’s orders. Which he would never consider doing. 

			
I had a whore every day, a game every night, and I was free here like in Denver, he thought. 

			
He stomped back up the stairs, and they heard an apartment door slam shut above the restaurant’s tin ceiling. 

			
It wasn’t the door with “2A” penciled on it.

			
The rest of them hadn’t moved yet, so the woman again ordered them to leave and not come back, repeating under her breath, “Voi animali.” 

			
The man lying on the counter—the opposite of Mariano in every way—was still groggy and aching, but he managed to wave his hand and say to his wife, “No, amore mia. Solo un malinteso.”—No, my love. It was just a mistake.

			
He turned to Flo and Clara who were taking their job of ministering to his wounds very seriously. “My name-a eese Signor Ferdinando. This-a is my ristorante.” 

			
“Oh,” little Flo said, shaking his limp hand. “It is very nice to meet you Signor Ferdinando,” hoping that was the polite way to respond to a man who’d just saved their lives but was now bleeding after being beaten by her brothers. 

			
Clara grabbed his other hand, and copying her sister, said, “It is nice to meet you, Signor Ferdinando.” 

			
Signor Ferdinando managed a smile, looked at his furious wife, and asked her anyway, “Per favore, date delle panelle alle bambine.”—Please give the kids a panelle. 

			
Ferdinando believed there wasn’t anything that couldn’t be solved with a snack—especially panelle, the Sicilian chickpea fritters that were one of the specialties of Ferdinando’s Focacceria. When the girls bit into his delicious chickpea panelle, they thought exactly the same thing. 

			
It was the start of a lifelong friendship, and one that would strangely reemerge again many generations later.

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 44 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 44 –

			
No School Like Old School

			
Red Hook, Brooklyn, New York 

			
November 1923

			
The family managed to settle in as best as they could in the overcrowded rooms. Maria, who’d had enough of public schools thanks to the very dead Miss Trainor, enrolled Flo and Clara in the local church school—Saint Mary Star of the Sea elementary school, which was free to the children of parishioners. 

			
In exchange for the free schooling, the mothers of the children in the parish cleaned, cooked for the priests, and kowtowed to the nuns who ran the school like it was a juvenile detention center. 

			
On their first day as the new girls in school (Clara was enrolled again as Flo’s twin), Flo made the mistake of asking their teacher, a nun named Sister Joseph-Mildred, “Why do you have the same name as my brother if you wear a gown? Are you a man or a lady?” 

			
The children in the classroom laughed out loud, the loudest being Louis LeRoux, who upon returning from the water fountain, squirted water out of his nose, which made the kids laugh louder and the nun even madder than she already was. 

			
Clearly, she didn’t find any of it funny. 

			
Not one to take remarks from wise-ass brats, especially immigrant brats, the nun cracked the ruler on Flo’s desk. She’d been aiming for her hands, but Flo, being fast and limber from living with Blue, pulled her hands out a second before disaster struck.

			
The nun’s savagery so startled Flo that she followed that by doing what came naturally. She hunched her back and growled low. The nun was not sure whether she actually heard a growl or not, but she was sure that whatever it was, it was not good. And it was probably unholy. 

			
Sister Joseph-Mildred lifted Flo out of her seat by her armpits and slapped her face. Hard. “You little dago guttersnipe!” she screeched. “Did you growl at me? You better learn you aren’t in the Wild West anymore. This is the big city, and I’ll beat you silly if you ever disrespect me again!”

			
Flo remembered what her mama had taught her before they left Colorado, which was very specific: “Don’t act like a wolf there. They don’t know about those things in Brook-a-land. They might think you are lupa mannaro.”—a werewolf.

			
Flo took a breath, quit growling, and sniffled, “I wasn’t bein’ disresect, teacher, I just wanted to know why—”

			
With that, Sister Joseph-Mildred grabbed her up by the collar, slammed the dunce cap on her head, and dragged her over to the corner where she had to face the wall for the rest of her first day in her new school. Tears ran down Clara’s face all day, but she tried not to make a sound even as the snot ran down her face, making the nun even angrier.

			
When Maria arrived to pick the kids up and saw the big red mark still visible on Flo’s face, she knelt down and asked her what had happened.

			
“The teacher slapped me because I asked why she had my brother’s name, and if she was a lady or a man,” Flo cried, falling into her mother’s arms. “She called me ‘dago guttersnipe.’” 

			
“Where is the teacher?” Maria asked in Sicilian. Flo pointed to her classroom. She didn’t know what guttersnipe, meant, but she sure knew what dago meant. Maria put her face down next to Flo’s and told her, “You listen to me. Nobody is better than you—nobody!” 

			
With that, she told the girls to wait for her on the playground and walked to the door of the classroom where the nun was erasing the blackboard. 

			
“Sorella Giuseppe?” Maria called from the doorway. The nun didn’t turn around and said, “I don’t speak Eye-talian, so speak English or go find one of your own kind to interpret for you.”

			
Maria understood her well enough to answer, “I speak-a small da’ Inglesay.” 

			
“I don’t understand you,” Sister Joseph-Mildred said, still not bothering to turn around. Maria walked into the classroom, up to the blackboard, tapped the nun on her shoulder, put her mouth right up to where the sister’s ear was hiding under the veil, and whispered, “You toucha mia figlia, Sorella Teacher? Maybe I send somebody a’teach you.”

			
With that, she turned around and walked out, leaving the nun stunned—and hell bent on revenge. By tomorrow, that filthy howling little dog and that midget sister of hers will be expelled, Sister Joseph-Mildred promised herself.

			
So, keeping her word, right after supper, the nun walked over to Monsignor Preston’s palatial residence a few blocks over, lifted the enormous lion-head door knocker, and knocked three times. When a young priest answered the door, she told him she needed to speak with the monsignor. “It’s of the utmost importance,” she snapped.

			
In a few minutes she was escorted into the monsignor’s study as he was finishing up his brandy. She told him the story, embellishing the part about the growl and adding that she thought she saw fangs on the child. She asked that both the feral child and her sister be expelled immediately. 

			
“I hate Southern Italians,” she added for emphasis, smoothing her already smooth habit. “They think they’re God’s gift, but are just filthy darkies pretending to be white. Or maybe they are just hairy and smelly because they are part dog or wolf or something.”

			
The monsignor shook his head in agreement. “Those Guineas are nothing but trouble. Always have been, always will be. Coming here, invading our neighborhood. The sooner they find somewhere else to ruin and get outta here, the better.” 

			
Rising up, holding out his hand for the nun to kiss his ring—which was a gesture well above his rank—he assured her, “Don’t you worry, Sister. The brats will be expelled tomorrow. So help me God.”

			
Feeling powerful and happy, Sister Joseph-Mildred walked out of there with a spring in her step, which was about as unusual an occurrence as spotting a wolf girl in Brooklyn.

			
The next morning, Maria took Flo and Clara to school bright and early. The schoolyard was full of kids playing ball, potsy, and marbles, jumping rope, and having fun. The bell rang at 8:00 a.m., Potsy and the children lined up according to grade and classroom. Sister Joseph-Mildred stood, guarding the door, salivating at the thought of turning the Barbera brats away in front of everyone. When the girls reached the door and gave their names to the novice checking the kids in, Sister Joseph-Mildred stepped out and took the attendance sheet out of the young nun’s hands. 

			
In her haughtiest voice, she chirped, “That won’t be necessary, Sister Rose. These two are not—”

			
Before she could finish her pronouncement, the monsignor, red faced and out of breath, came rushing through the schoolyard, accompanied by a man in an overcoat and fedora. “No, no, Sister, let them in,” cried the monsignor, sweat pouring down his face despite the cold weather.

			
“But—” she started to say, and the monsignor put his hand right over her mouth. “Do not disobey me, Sister! These girls are very welcome here.” He then tipped his hat to Maria, patted Flo and Clara on the head, and said, “Such good girls.”

			
The nun looked from the monsignor to the man in the fedora, whose face was as blank as a schoolroom slate. 

			
When the nun, shamed and cowed, walked back inside holding the hands of both girls, Flo told her, “Sister, my mama said nobody is better than me. Nobody.” This made the nun stiffen, furious that she could no longer slap the child or even squeeze her hand until it hurt. 

			
She turned around to see if the man in the fedora was still there. He was and he smiled at her—if that’s what you’d call such a thing.

			
He then took a fat envelope out of his coat pocket and handed it to the monsignor. “For the poor, fathah. From Mister Lansky,” he said. 

			
It was clear to everyone that the Carlino’s hand reached far, just as the Don had promised. 

			
The monsignor gave the man a blessing and said, “Thank you, my son. It will go to good use,” then stuck the envelope right in his own pocket.

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

Author’s Note
		

	
	
		

			
Author’s Note

			
The Sicilian language used throughout is as authentic to the period as possible. In many cases Italian, English, and Sicilian are intermixed conversationally. The misspellings are deliberate when used as the spoken word. The natural disasters in Italy and in Colorado such as the Messina Earthquake of 1908 and the Pueblo Flood of 1921, actually happened and were the springboard for much of the characters actual and fictional lives. Some of the unnatural events—such as the Ludlow Massacre—are real, while others have been fictionalized. Some characters such as Michelina, Callie, and Vito Carlino are an amalgam of several different people I’ve known or have heard stories about.

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 45 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 45 –

			
Cash In, Cashed Out

			
Red Hook, Brooklyn, New York 

			
1923–1928

			
The story of how the monsignor and the man in the fedora had come to the little parish school spread around the neighborhood faster than one-half of no time. If Calvin Coolidge himself had shown up, it wouldn’t have been as big news. The only time that the monsignor ever showed up at the school was for the Christmas pageant. The fedora man? He was never seen there before and never again after that.

			
That visit made it very clear to the whole neighborhood that sweet-faced little Maria was someone who had influence with folks of influence, both in the neighborhood and beyond. The thinking was, if you had the monsignor, you had the mobsters.

			
Therefore, by week’s end, business had picked up to overflowing at “Mariano’s Deluxe Fruits and Vegetables Store.” When Maria was manning the place, she noticed that the produce that had seen better days went flying off the shelves. 

			
Even so, the Barberas were still mostly broke, thanks to Mariano. The money she made from washing the Carlino money didn’t cover expenses because Mariano was either giving everybody credit so he’d look like a big shot, or he was paying women back in groceries for what he’d lost to their husbands at the tables. 

			
But no matter how short they were every month, Maria wouldn’t let customers buy what they didn’t need to gain favor, so she put a stop to it. Instead, each evening, she, Laura, Flo, and Clara would gather up the fruits, vegetables, and loaves of bread that weren’t at their peak (and many times, at their peak) and put them in sacks. When they finished making up the bundles, Maria and the girls would walk from building to building discretely hanging anonymous packages (or as discretely and anonymously as they could in the crowded tenements), on the doorknobs of families who were struggling. 

			
Within a year, Maria’s reputation as a good woman with powerful friends had grown, and she began to take little jobs washing money for the Carlino’s allies too. 

			
Meyer Lansky, of the Bugs and Meyer Mob—the first person known to launder money through Swiss banks—sent some business her way just to show good faith with his Italian friends. But she’d already experienced his “good faith” when he had sent fedora man to have a talk with the monsignor.

			
The connection between the Italian and Jewish bootleg mobsters was “Lucky” Luciano, a friend of the Carlinos and La Donas. He and Lansky had been great friends since they were kids growing up together. Birds of different feathers flocking together.

			
As long as everybody took their piece and only their piece, and everybody stayed out of everybody else’s affairs, the alliance would hold. 

			
A year after they moved in, Flo and Clara were playing Potsy on the sidewalk on a Saturday morning when they saw Maria rushing towards them from the store. She hustled them inside, up the stairs, and pulled down all the shades. “Don’t talk,” she ordered.

			
“What’s going on, Mama?” Flo cried. “We was playin’ Potsy!”

			
“I say ‘don’t talk,’” Maria scolded, putting her hand over Flo’s mouth. Mama knew something they didn’t, and that was good enough for them. 

			
Seconds later, shots rang out, followed by screams and the sound of people running, doors opening and slamming shut. When it grew quiet, Clara snuck a peek under the shade and let out a scream. “I tol’ you no look!” Maria whispered, taking the child into her arms.

			
Clara had seen a man, full of bullets, bleeding out right inside the potsy grid they’d chalked on the sidewalk.

			
Word on the street was that Lansky had done his buddy Luciano a solid by sending four Jewish mobsters to take out the dead man, one Salvatore Maranzano. He had been an Italian mob boss who’d put a contract out on rival Luciano. 

			
Different town, different players, same old shit.

			
That murder, though, was like a gift from God for one other person—Mariano. Maranzano’s loan shark operation had extended extra coin to Mariano, which the boss knew he couldn’t pay back. Maranzano had a plan, though. After the mob boss scared the living daylights out of Mariano with several beatings, Maranzano offered Mariano a deal: He’d cut the interest on the loans by half, and in return, Mariano would rat on his own people.

			
Out of respect, Don Vito had let Mariano keep a seat at the table, even though he had no say in any decisions. He didn’t have a say within his own family anymore, either, but he had plenty to say to the Maranzano gang—trading information in return for shaving his debts and keeping them from beating the hell out of him. 

			
He was saving his own skin with the Maranzanos, but if the Colorado connection ever discovered Mariano had been sleeping with the enemy, that would have been the end of him. So, with Maranzano out of the way, Mariano was once again able to slip the noose. 

			
“Papa’s slipperier than a can of Red Rose lard,” Austin often said.

			
“The little lady,” as Maria came to be called, was the one that people trusted and relied on for favors, for food, for…well, whatever they needed.

			
Joe and Peter meantime collected the bootleg money in burlap sacks that had to be “washed” through the family’s grocery store. 

			
One March day in 1927, when the family had extra cash because Mariano had mysteriously gone missing for two weeks, they went out and bought a piano and placed it in Ferdinando’s Focacceria. It was high time for Austin to make his way, and since he was a helluva piano man, he could earn money playing for tips. Which he did. Yes, there were the occasional times when one of his spells would come on, but Ferdinando and his wife knew what to do, and the customers were all like—or actually were—family, so they knew enough to just wait until it passed. They never made Austin feel ashamed, or as Mariano would say, like a freak. 

			
Nothing much changed—until the unthinkable happened. Black Tuesday. That was the day, on October 29, 1929, when the Wall Street Stock Market crashed—not that the family knew what that was. But they knew that, thank God, even though rich people were jumping out of windows and poor people were on bread lines, somehow it hadn’t much affected the bootleg business and thus the money laundering business. 

			
Others weren’t as lucky. Men lost jobs and families were evicted, and not just in Red Hook; the newspapers proclaimed it was this way all over the world. Her neighbors were starving, and even more women were out in the streets with their children.

			
Maria had a sit-down with the bosses and got their permissions to take a percentage off the top each week to pay rents of the poorest widows with children in the neighborhood. 

			
Mariano wasn’t around very much any longer, which was a relief to everyone. What he did for money during these times, they could only guess. When he did show up, though, he was either angry or drunk, or angry and drunk. 

			
On Union Street, Mariano was loathed, Maria was loved. He was feared, she was fearless. He took, she gave.

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 46 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 46 –

			
Daughters of the Italian American Revolution

			
Red Hook, Brooklyn, New York 

			
1929–1930

			
Laura, the beauty with the dimples, the flowing mane of black curls, and the good fashion sense, never got to buy those pretty dresses she so admired. One day in the eleventh grade, she declared that her education was over and refused to go back to school. She took a job sewing mattresses at the O’Mara Mattress factory and promptly took up with a small-time crook named Frank Furiano. 

			
Maria was raving mad. “He no good!” she warned Laura when Frank first started coming around. “He can’t even steal without getting caught. A real stunad. Stay away from him, or I kill you!” 

			
Laura eloped with Frank two months later and moved into his parents’ one-bedroom apartment where he began to beat her regularly. Each time she’d hide from her family until the bruises faded because makeup just wouldn’t cover it. Her co-workers knew she was being beaten up, but sometimes it was just a woman’s fate, and there was nothing anybody could say or do about it.

			
Laura knew she had married a man who was worse than her father.

			
If her brothers ever knew that the two-bit hoodlum with no affiliation to any of the “families” in the neighborhood had beaten their sister to within an inch of her life, they would have had no problem doing the same to him and not leaving even that inch of life in him. But, like her mother, Laura couldn’t live with her no-account husband, but neither could she live with his murder on her conscience. 

			
But knowing this marriage had forever trapped her in a prison of her own making, she did the only thing she could: She took a lover. 

			
No, not the kind of lover like the fancy puttanas had—those men in silk suits with flowers in their lapels who could keep a girl in style—but a decent, blue-eyed man named Lorenzo Sant’Angelo. Lorenzo drove an O’Mara mattress truck and, despite his thin frame, hefted mattresses single-handedly up five flights of stairs. 

			
When Laura got pregnant with the second of the four sons she’d eventually have, the new baby was named for her brother Giuseppe. He was, by the grace of God, the spitting image of the beautiful Laura. He was all dimples, with a tiny nose, black eyes, and masses of black ringlets. Frank was so stupid, he believed that gorgeous baby boy was his spitting image, and maybe it was—even though Frank himself had no dimples, a Roman nose, and hair as straight as a stick. It was the kind of look that a young girl might at first glance think of as thrilling and dangerous.

			
But there is a difference between dangerous and cruel. The meaner he got, the less attractive he got. It was like his soul was showing in his face. In fact, one day when Flo, Clara, and Maria were crossing the street, Flo, who had become fascinated by cars, said, “Mama, lookit that Buick roadster over there. Doesn’t the front with those buggy headlights and that ugly front grill look just like Frank’s mug?” Maria looked at the Roadster, saw that yes, it sure did look like Frank, and all three of them burst out laughing until tears rolled down their faces. 

			
“Good thing the baby don’t look like Frank,” Clara added, and they all started laughing out loud again. 

			
Maria was just grateful to God that the baby looked nothing like the front grill of roadster, and even more grateful that he didn’t have Lorenzo the truck driver’s blue eyes either. 

			
Lorenzo had fallen deep as a bottomless well for Laura and she for him, but the idea that she lived not just with another man, but with the brutal Frank, drove Lorenzo crazy. This was especially true since he believed the baby was his, because, for starters, little Giuseppe looked like a miniature version of Lorenzo’s little brother, Tommy Boy. But then again, Tommy Boy looked a bit like Frank, which was traditional Sicilian.

			
Maria always knew everything, even though her kids often thought she didn’t know anything about what they had gotten up to. She understood when she could step in and stop whatever trouble they were getting into and when they had to learn those lessons for themselves—just as she had learned them: the hard way.

			
Flo and Clara in those same years had done well in school and eventually even adjusted to Red Hook. But they never stopped yearning for Colorado, for little Bella, and for Blue. No matter how many years passed, every time Flo thought of her mama wolf running after the train, she’d burst into tears. The apartment was too small even for a dog, which left the animal-loving girls bereft. 

			
“Mama!” Flo would wail. “What am I supposed to do—have a big, fat rat for a pet?” Sometimes Blue would come to her in her dreams, but when she woke and realized Blue wasn’t real, she’d get to sobbing all over again. 

			
Maria relented and one day brought home a parrot, which she had gotten from a customer who was moving upstate. His name was Omar, and he unfortunately only spoke Portuguese and wasn’t very friendly. Every time the girls would go near him, he’d spit out, “caralho!”—fuck!—at them in Portuguese. Omar had one other talent as far as anyone could tell and that was imitating a doorbell, which he “rang” very loudly several times a day. 

			
Omar was no substitute for Blue or Bella, but when the girls somehow learned what caralho meant, they’d whisper it to each other when they saw someone unsavory and then laugh themselves silly. 

			
Eventually, Maria managed to get the peroxide blonde moved out of the apartment next door by phoning Mr. Lansky, who’d sent the man in the fedora to “collect the rent.” Conveniently, that just so happened to be about the same time Joe married a girl named Irene, so the new couple moved into the former apartment of the woman Laura had nicknamed, “Puttana Blondie.” At first Flo and Clara were excited to have a new “sister” to visit, but then they saw what was on Irene and Joe’s bed and froze in fear. Covering their maroon, quilted, satin spread was Irene’s collection of scary porcelain dolls with real hair and gowns also made of satin. 

			
Maria was also able to take over the empty storefront across the street and open a second shop. She called it, “Maria Latteria,” where she sold fresh milk, mozzarella made by a local wife, imported cheeses such as Parmigiano Reggiano, and fresh-baked bread. After she closed up for business each night, she’d open the soup kitchen for women and children in need in the back. Maria, Flo, Clara, and other volunteer ladies (and even Sister Joseph-Mildred on occasion) would pass out hot soup, bread, cheese, and when possible, as many panelli as Flo could coax out of Ferdinando. Not that the big-hearted ristorante owner would refuse Flo anything. 

			
One stormy evening, six months after the stock market crash, as Maria was about to close up the dairy store, a young woman showed up outside pushing a baby carriage. Maria ran to open the door as the young woman, her back to Maria, lifted the baby out of the carriage. She turned around and said, “Buonasera, Mama.” Callie. Without giving the family notice, not only had Callie showed up out of nowhere, she had showed up with a baby.

			
A big man in a fancy coat came rushing up right after them and took the baby from Callie so she could throw her arms around her mother.

			
As they stood in the rain, Maria, half in shock, half enraged, and completely disgusted, stiffened against the hug and said, “I suppose you have come to take Carlotta away from me?”

			
“Oh no, Mama, I would never do that,” Callie said.

			
Maria pretended Callie wasn’t even there and walked back inside the store, but before she could close the door, Callie and the big man holding the baby followed her. Maria stood at the open door, blocking their way.

			
“Then what do you want, showing up here after seven years? Never once contacting us, never once asking if your daughter was alive or dead,” Maria said, cold as a delivery from the ice man.

			
“I’m—we’re—back, Mama,” Callie sputtered. Then, “This is my husband, Orazio, and this is our baby, Katerina, but we call her ‘Kat.’”

			
When Maria stepped back to let them enter, more to protect the baby from the rain than as a welcome back to the family, Callie took the blanket from the baby’s head. Kat was an angel baby—the baby Callie would have accepted if it had been Charlie’s—even though she was a girl. Her head was covered in bright, blonde fuzz, her huge eyes were the sweetest hazel, and her nose was more of a button than an appendage. Baby Kat looked like the Gerber baby before there was a Gerber baby: the perfect white, American infant.

			
“And what about Carlotta?” Maria spit out. 

			
Looking up at her new husband with the same loving stare she had once reserved for Charlie, Callie answered, “Oh, don’t worry. We aren’t here to take her away from you. In fact, Orazio, he doesn’t even want to think I ever had another husband, let alone a child!”

			
Orazio looked confused, but said nothing.

			
“And you think this is normale? To reject your child not once but twice?”

			
“Oh Mama, I want to be in her life. I love her.”

			
Maria snorted and went about putting the day-old bread into baskets to bring to the needy families, not looking up at them. 

			
“Mama, after all this time, she’s more your child than mine—” Callie said as Maria cut her off at the pass, putting her finger right in her daughter’s face.

			
“Carlotta! Her name is Carlotta!”

			
“I know her name is Carlotta. Carlotta Maria, in honor of you.”

			
“In honor of Carlo you mean. Anyway, what do you want?” Maria repeated. 

			
“I—we—want to come back to the family,” Callie said a big grin spreading over her face. “Orazio—Raz—has a business opportunity here. His father died and left him the shoemaker shop around the corner. Raz is trained to fix shoes, but he is too educated for that kind of work. He’s a writer. He’s building a little theater in the back where he can put on his plays.”

			
“His plays,” Maria sneered, making it as clear as a plate glass window that she didn’t care to hear anything else.

			
Callie continued anyway. “Yes, Raz writes plays, you see—that’s how we met. I was working at the little theater in Schenectady when Raz came to town to put on a play.”

			
Maria shook her head. “A shoemaker-play writer. Perfetto. Now get out.”

			
“But Mama!” Callie cried, just like she’d sounded when she had been Charlie’s spoiled brat wife.

			
Maria gestured towards the door. As the couple turned to leave, Callie turned back and vowed, “We will come back. Raz wants to meet my brothers and sisters too.” 

			
They won’t want to meet him or see you, Maria thought.

			
A month later, a letter arrived at 151 Union Street inviting them to Raz’s first play in Brooklyn: Falling Leaves of Sorrento.

			
Peter, Flo, Clara, Carlotta, and Austin—against Maria’s wishes—decided they just had to go, if for no other reason than to see what the hell Callie was up to this time around. They were shown to the best seats in the rickety theater behind “Orazio’s Shoe and Saddle Repair Shop.” It was, in reality, a pretty terrible place, but the girls had never been in a theater before or seen a real play so to them it was amazing.

			
The play, an awful melodramatic hour of hand-wringing and bad acting, concerned a man whose beautiful fiancée had been kidnapped by a bandit, so he kills himself. It made no sense, but the family was dazzled nonetheless.

			
The only one who didn’t enjoy it was Carlotta. First, she became uncomfortable, and then downright disturbed, because the skinny lady holding the beautiful golden baby (who had been introduced as “Aunt Callie”) kept turning around to stare at her.

			
“Is she really our aunt? Why does she keep looking at me?” Carlotta whispered to Flo, who knew the truth but didn’t answer. 

			
Carlotta understood the silence meant this wasn’t a question she should have asked. Or a question she might ever get answered.

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 47 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 47 –

			
Boys Will Be Men

			
Red Hook, Brooklyn, New York

			
1930

			
Peter grew, if not more handsome—impossible—then even more appealing. The ladies were struck dumb by his unintended swagger, his natural confidence, crooked smile, and ability to charm the pants off anybody. Literally.

			
Men, too, loved being around Peter, not just because he was funny and trustworthy, but also because where Peter went so followed the ladies. 

			
Then, without warning, Peter eloped with a neighborhood gal named Jeannette Giarratano, leaving half the women in Red Hook bereft.

			
Not that they had to wait too long after the wedding to get, as they called it, “into the sheets with Pete.” No, Peter was not a faithful husband, but he was a good provider. His extra money came not from his backbreaking job on the docks, but from his leg-breaking job collecting for the local numbers runners. Although, in all fairness, Peter was more of a heartbreaker than a leg-breaker. Half the time, he took the money out of his own pocket and told the runner he’d collected it.

			
By the time Peter and Jeannette had been married less than three years, Jeannette had already popped out two gorgeous baby girls. First there was Marie, named in honor of her mother-in-law. When the second baby was born, they named her Beatrice in honor of Jeannette’s grandmother but gave her the fancy French middle name of Claudette in honor of her favorite movie star, Claudette Colbert. That was as wild as Jeannette ever got. 

			
She kept her home spotless and contented herself with her duties as a mother and proud wife to the catch-of-the neighborhood. She knew Peter was a man many women wanted—and she suspected many women still had. 

			
In fact, Jeannette once heard a woman say to her friend as they were passing the pushcart where she was perusing kitchen items, “Ooo, slow down, here he comes.”

			
The other one answered, “I’d keep the light burnin’ on the porch for that boy anytime.”

			
They turned around and laughed out loud, just like, Jeannette thought, a couple of cheap dancehall girls.

			
She didn’t know who these loudmouths were talking about, so she turned around and saw Peter walking towards them. When he saw Jeannette, though, he stopped heading in their direction, turned, and walked instead towards the pushcart where she had been standing.

			
Jeanette put down the eggbeater she’d been eyeing and took her husband by the arm, glared at the women, and strolled away, holding onto him with one hand and pushing the baby carriage with the other. Before they got to the corner, Jeannette turned and sneered at them. A few seconds later, Peter turned and winked at them. If Jeannette had seen it, she said nothing. Not to him anyway. She never would. Her mother had taught her to always pretend to look the other way when it concerned a husband.

			
The only one Jeannette ever talked to about Peter’s flirtatious ways was her sister, Caterina, but it was only to let her know that she was no dummy and knew what he was up to. The conversation she had always wanted to avoid, but would nonetheless have to happen, took place one crisp fall afternoon when the sisters were out walking their babies. Jeannette, who was dressed in her new fur coat even though it wasn’t fur-coat weather, brought the subject up herself.

			
She admitted that, yes, she knew her husband sometimes had experiences with other women, “But I’m the one he bought this expensive mouton coat for, and I’m the one he comes home to every night.” 

			
Caterina stopped herself from saying, “We both know your husband does not come home to you every night, and that fur coat probably fell off a truck.” 

			
She buttoned her lips but thought: Better to have a man who doesn’t look like a matinee idol and is faithful to his wife, than un uomo bellissimo—a beautiful man—who can’t keep it in his pants.

			
Maria’s oldest son, meanwhile, was the opposite of Peter. Joe was tall, slim, and muscular but looked like, well, a regular Joe—not like anybody’s idea of bell’uomo. Joe was as faithful a husband as any girl could wish for. No one who knew Joe would have expected anything less.

			
Joe’s wife was a neighborhood girl, Irene Impastato, who happened to be the niece of Paul La Dona. In addition to the fact that Joe loved his bride, the marriage helped bring the feuding families together. Moving away from Colorado had put enough distance between the Barberas and the La Donas that, if absence didn’t make their hearts grow fonder, it did make those hearts grow a bit softer. Capone had been right about the Barberas moving to New York.

			
Not that any of them—with the exception of Peter—loved Brooklyn as much as they loved Colorado, but at least the family wasn’t being killed any longer. 

			
Irene was raised in the city, so she was a citified gal who didn’t know any other life, but she would have been OK wherever they landed. She was just one of those kind-hearted souls who was as good as bread, even though she was plain in the face and big in the belly. Irene was what they called a “big gal.” 

			
Didn’t matter. Helen Keller herself could have seen that Joe and his wife were very much in love.

			
Joe told his brothers, “If I was any happier, I’d think it was a setup.”

			
They were a very happy couple, yes, but then again, not. The disappointment in their lives was that Irene’s big belly never held a baby, which the couple had yearned for. People began to wonder about it, and they’d even ask her, “So when are you two going to start a family?” 

			
Or worse, mistaking her for being pregnant, they would blurt out, “Yowsa! When’s the baby due? Looks like any day now, right?” 

			
Two years into the marriage, Irene—fearing that Maria, too, would think her a failure for not producing a child—threw herself into Maria’s arms and cried, the tears landing on her big bosom and wetting down the bodice of her flowered house dress. 

			
“Mama Maria! I just can’t get pregnant,” she wailed, reminiscent of Callie all those many years ago. It was so long ago, in fact, that “Baby” Carlotta was already seven years old. 

			
“No matter how I pray, no matter how many novenas I make,” she continued, “I just can’t get with child.”

			
Maria tried practical advice. “Praying is good, cara, but fari l’amuri is better.”

			
“But we do make love,” Irene sobbed. “I try to keep my Joe as happy as I can. I never refuse and I’m always ready for him, whenever he wants me.”

			
Too bad there is no Chepeta here in this Red Hook, Maria thought. She was half temped to send Irene to Colorado to try and find the medicine woman, but she knew that the tribe would have moved on by now.

			
Worse, the more Irene failed to get pregnant, the bigger her collection of scary porcelain dolls grew, until they covered every inch of the bed. There was the satin doll in a faded pink gown with frightening brown curls and a giant bow atop her head; there was the one in the blue gown with blonde hair and eyelashes and glass eyes that opened and closed. The worst one was the one in the giant brown gown and matching hat with lace that covered its face. They all wore Mary Jane shoes with white stockings, and all had painted faces with red lips. Some had scary little doll teeth too. 

			
Joe loved Irene so much it never occurred to him that the dolls scared the hell out of everybody else.

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 48 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 48 –

			
Only The Good Die Young

			
Red Hook, Brooklyn, New York 

			
1930

			
Flo and Clara, now thirteen and fourteen (both fourteen as far as school records went), and Carlotta, seven, all swore that Auntie Irene’s dolls came alive at night and killed people.

			
“You know that man they wheeled into old man Pirro’s funeral parlor today?” Flo asked Clara one night as they snuggled together in the tiny single bed. “I think that terrible doll with the brown gown came alive last night and killed him dead!” That caused Carlotta, who slept on a cot next to them, to break into a million tears and run to the safety of her mother’s bed—or the only woman she had ever known as her mother.

			
Maria snuggled Carlotta in her arms under her big quilt and sang her to sleep with their favorite Sicilian lullaby.

			
Vò e la rivò, ora viene il padre tuo

			
e ti porta la semenza, la rosa marina e il basilico…

			
It was the last song Carlotta ever heard her “mama” sing.

			
A few days later—it was May by then—Maria went to visit Irene next door, toting along her constant companion, Carlotta, as well as her “medicine bag” of holy water, oil, and herbs. Maybe the old remedy would help even though it had failed to do the job with Callie. When Maria walked into the apartment, she began rubbing her stomach. 

			
“Mama, what’s wrong—do you feel sick?” Irene asked.

			
“She said she’s fine,” Carlotta piped up. “But look, Auntie Irene. Mama’s belly is swole out big as yours.” 

			
Good natured Irene laughed. “Oh honey, nobody’s belly is big as mine!” Then turning to Maria, “Mama, maybe you want some Bromo-Seltzer?”

			
“No, no, I’m fine,” Maria answered, even though it was clear that she was uncomfortable. 

			
“Pass some gas,” Irene offered. “It always helps.”

			
“No, no Bromo, no pìditu.” In her best English, Maria continued, “We here because I want to pray for you have a baby, not to pray rotten belly.”

			
Irene nodded, grateful for any help in the baby department, but she was nonetheless mostly concerned about her mother-in-law. 

			
Rubbing the side of her stomach before they started praying, Maria brought up a subject she knew would be about as disturbing to her daughter-in-law as any, but it had to be said. 

			
The dolls, she delicately explained, which were posed on the bed could be the problem. Since so many in the family found them scary, was it possible that they were, ah, ah, “bambole maledette?”—Cursed dolls? 

			
Irene looked stricken, but Maria continued, nonetheless. “Could maybe,” Maria suggested timidly, “they shouldn’t be on the bed?”

			
Irene, like a mother protecting her real-life children cried, “No, Mama Maria! No! These are my sweet bambini.” 

			
Maria made that face, the one she made when she found something to be ridiculous—the one where she’d open her eyes real wide, lift her eyebrows, and look sideways. 

			
“Maybe we pray anyway,” she said, looking up at the gigantic crucifix hanging dangerously over Irene and Joe’s bed. Maria poured some oil into a tiny dish and added a few drops of holy water and some smelly herbs. Irene knelt down next to the doll-covered bed, bowed her head, and put her hands together in prayer. 

			
Carlotta couldn’t bear to be so close to the killer dolls, so Maria told her she could go find her sisters who were playing in the schoolyard. 

			
Carlotta was more than happy to get out of there, so she jumped up, ran out the door, found her sisters in the schoolyard, and told them, “Mama says Auntie Irene’s dolls is cursed. I was up there, and it’s true. Soons Mama walked in, her stomach got to hurtin’.”

			
“Oh that’s ’cause Mama’s got ‘her friend,’ silly,” Clara said like a know-it-all.

			
“No, she ain’t got no friend up there,” Carlotta answered. “Just Auntie and them dolls.”

			
Clara looked up at the sky as though she was exasperated with this child who didn’t understand grown-up stuff. “You’re such a baby, Carlotta,” she said. “Mama’s having her ‘lady business,’ that’s all. You know what ‘lady business’ is, right?”

			
When Carlotta still looked confused, Flo weighed in, “She means she’s bleeding.”

			
“No, no, she ain’t bleeding, she just got a bellyache,” Carlotta answered, shaking her head like she was talking to two real-life dummy dolls. 

			
Conversation done, Carlotta begged the older girls to play Potsy with her even though they tried to act too old to play a kiddie game. They would never admit that they still loved to play, so Flo, pretending to be above it all, nonetheless threw a pebble into the first box on the potsy square which had been chalked in. She hopped on one foot to the box, totally unaware of what was transpiring upstairs at 151 Union Street. 

			
Back at 151, before the ritual had even begun, Maria bent over. Irene, assuming it was a special posture for the pregnancy ceremony, bent over too. When Maria didn’t make any gesture or sound to get the prayers started—she hadn’t even reached for her Rosary—Irene glanced at her sideways. 

			
Should I be doing something, she wondered but was afraid of asking for fear of looking dumb in Maria’s eyes.

			
Nothing. 

			
Finally, after a few minutes had passed, Irene whispered, “Mama?” 

			
A low and painful-sounding groan erupted from Maria. She looked at Irene with fear in her eyes, clutched her stomach, and slumped to the floor. 

			
“Jesu Christa! Mama! Mama!” Irene screamed and lifted her mother-in-law up to a sitting position with the older woman’s back pressed up against the bed rails, her legs splayed out in front. 

			
Maria skidded back down to the floor, slipping in and out of consciousness. Irene ran to the window, leaned out, and screamed for help. People outside stopped, looked up, and ran towards the building. Ferdinando and Anselmo, the ice man, also heard the cry, and the two rushed up the stairs. They found Maria unconscious on the floor with Irene hovering, begging Maria to keep breathing. 

			
Together, the two men carried Maria downstairs to the ice truck. Irene climbed up into the front seat and Ferdinando lifted Maria onto her lap. Ferdinando hopped in the back with the ice, and Anselmo took off at top speed, swerving and honking his way to the Brooklyn Hospital.

			
All three of them screamed for help as they carried Maria into the foreboding stone building.

			
The nurses inside were overwhelmed trying to deal with scores of patients groaning, moaning, coughing up blood, and bleeding from accidents, beatings, and gunshot wounds, so they just ignored the family. 

			
Somehow, Joe, Peter, and Austin had found out through the neighborhood grapevine that their mama had been rushed to the hospital, so all three brothers showed up within minutes. They threw open the front doors and saw their mother lying on a lobby bench in Irene’s arms, moaning. This was a sound they had never heard come out of her—except maybe during childbirth. No matter how terrible things were, nor how much of a brute Mariano had turned into, not even the loss of her babies or the near loss of Peter had ever caused Maria to moan so helplessly. She was Mama who could always fix whatever was wrong.

			
But now tiny Maria cradled in Irene’s big arms looked as lifeless as one of her daughter-in-law’s porcelain dolls. 

			
“Where are the damned doctors? Why aren’t they taking care of her?” the brothers asked Irene and Ferdinando, who answered feebly, “We try, they just go away and not care!”

			
Joe cried out to his mother, “Mama! We’re getting help. Please, please hold on, Mama!” All three rushed off in different directions trying to find a doctor. Austin grabbed the first man he saw wearing a white gown, white cap, and black rubber gloves and begged him, “Please! Please help my mother!” 

			
The doctor brushed him off and turned to walk away, but Joe and Peter, suddenly at his side, surrounded the doctor, never having to say a word to one another. 

			
The doctor’s name, embroidered on the pocket of his white coat, read, “James Morgan III, MD.” 

			
“Peter Barbera the First, Doctor Morgan Three,” he said at first quietly. Then with increasing volume and fury, “Let’s help you get right over there where our mama is suffering since you’re not doing a Goddamned thing about it!” 

			
A little annoyed and a lot frightened, the doctor was pushed along by the brothers like a prisoner surrounded by cops. When they reached the bench where Maria now lay unconscious, Dr. Morgan bent down and made a signal with his hand, so Irene got up to let Ferdinando and Joe lay her head down on the bench. Dr. Morgan felt Maria’s stomach, looked up, and said, “Oh, for God’s sake. It’s just everyday appendicitis. She needs bedrest and only liquids. If she doesn’t get better in a few days, bring her back for surgery. Meantime, if you get on the line over there, right outside by the Rexall sign, the druggist will give you some tablets to give her.”

			
Only appendicitis, they thought, not knowing what the hell appendicitis was. “Does that mean it’s just a bad bellyache?” Joe asked. 

			
“Basically, but it could get worse,” the doctor answered as he walked off, leaving her laid out on the wooden bench like a drunk. 

			
The last thing Dr. Morgan the Third would have ever guessed was that the little immigrant woman he had just dismissed out of hand had probably saved more lives than he ever had and had lived a life more extraordinary than he ever would. 

			
That little woman had survived starvation, servitude, and the slaughter of her family and friends. She had lost six children, some before they took their first breath. She had managed to keep ten of her living children safe in the wild, without resources, through blizzards, a flood, and the threat of savage beasts on a remote mountain. Unable to read, write, or speak much English, she had nonetheless made her way in this new world. She’d been a bootlegger, a landowner, and run a cattle ranch full of ornery hands. She had worked like a man and had become the only woman to earn a place at the table with America’s newest rich and most dangerous men. 

			
Would Dr. Morgan have believed it? For that matter, would any of the respectable, fancy Fifth Avenue families who sent their sons to Harvard and Yale to become doctors and bankers ever acknowledge that their ancestors had once also been immigrants—folks who’d also done the unspeakable to make it big in America? 

			
No, because the stories of those rich, white tycoons had been bleached cleaner than hospital sheets. 

			
Not that it mattered anyway, because Dr. Morgan never turned around to see this newest family tragedy play out. He’d seen that same scene before—probably a thousand times—among the poor immigrants who flooded the hospital day after day. Just another ordinary day in the life of Dr. James Morgan III. 

			
But no matter how many times the Barberas had lived through heartbreaking scenes, this day would never be ordinary for them. 

			
Irene knew that the doctor was wrong. This? This was much more than a bad bellyache. She managed to squeeze onto the bench where Maria was stretched out and once again put her mother-in-law’s head on her lap and stroked her hair. 

			
Before Joe took off sprinting to the Rexall window, he bent down and kissed his mother who was now gasping for air. 

			
He also felt that something was not right. People didn’t gasp for air if their bellies hurt.

			
Peter? He just paced back and forth, helpless, his hands in his pockets, head bent to hide tears. Ferdinando and Anselmo, hands clasped behind their backs, followed him like twin shadows.

			
Austin? He knelt on the floor, held his mother’s hand, and whispered in Sicilian, “Don’t worry, Mama. Joe went for the tablets. They’ll fix you up.” 

			
When she didn’t respond, Austin squeezed her hand. Nothing. 

			
“Mama!” Austin cried, “Mama! Per favore svegliati. Respirare!”—Please wake up. Breathe!

			
But that didn’t happen. Couldn’t happen. Maria was thirty-nine years old.

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 49 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 49 –

			
Nobody Is Better Than You. Nobody.

			
Red Hook, Brooklyn, New York

			
Later that day

			
Clara and Carlotta stopped their game of Potsy and frowned when they saw Joe, Peter, and Austin approaching. They were sure their brothers were going to make them quit playing and go home for supper. 

			
“Ugh. Baccala night,” Clara told Carlotta who stuck her tongue out.

			
“Why can’t we eat meat on Friday instead of—blecchk—baccala?”

			
“Because God died on the cross on Friday, and he liked fish,” Clara answered. 

			
Clara, holding her pebble, looked up at her brothers and begged, “Come on, it’s my turn. I’m winning. Just five more minutes, pleeeeease?” 

			
Instead, Joe knelt down to embrace Clara, and Austin picked Carlotta up in his arms.

			
Peter reached down to Flo, but she shrugged him off. She wasn’t thinking about fish or potsy or any of it. In fact, she didn’t even question why her brothers were there. Instead, her face took on a kind of glow, and she reached out her hands to touch something that none of the others could see. 

			
Right there in front of her, as real as a playground rat, stood Blue. Her beloved Blue.

			
“Blue?” Flo asked and reached for her wolf. “Where have you been, Blue? How did you find me?”

			
Tears streamed down Peter’s face, which caused his normally strong brothers to fight back tears themselves. They were here to tell the children the worst news a child could ever be told, but somehow, they also understood there was a miracle transpiring before them that only Flo could see. 

			
They let the news go unsaid because they felt that, for a moment, and maybe the last one she’d have in a long time, Flo was happy. 

			
They let her have her time with Blue, who seemed to have returned, not to save Flo, but to comfort her, just as she always had done. 

			
As Blue’s image began to fade and Peter came into focus, Flo looked confused, then alarmed. 

			
“Where’s Blue? Why are i miei fratelli all here? What’s wrong?”

			
Joe only said, “We need to go home, girls.” 

			
Flo screamed, “Blue is here! I’m not leaving!”

			
“Blue is with you, always, wherever you are,” Peter said. That’s when Flo knew without anyone saying the words, that both of her mamas were now gone to heaven.

			
It slowly dawned on Clara that something was terribly wrong, so she just dropped her pebble, her eyes big as saucers. Carlotta was still a little girl, so she was just confused. Flo nodded her head at her sisters to stop fussing, and let the brothers take their hands and lead them home. 

			
When they reached 151 Union Street, the girls heard the sound of people crying inside the focacceria. Flo charged up the stairs, knowing, but refusing to believe what Blue had come to tell her. “Mama! Mama!” she cried as she whipped open the apartment door to a scene she would never forget. What seemed like dozens of people—family, friends, people she’d never seen before—were crowded inside the small space, sobbing; some were on their knees—women pulling at their hair, men standing and rocking back and forth. 

			
Everyone turned to stare at the girls, who were afraid to step inside. They somehow knew that once they walked in, life would never be the same again.

			
Laura, Irene, and even the mysterious Callie rushed to the door and tried to usher the kids inside.

			
“Mama!” the children screamed. “Where is Mama?” But they knew she wasn’t there and that she might never be there again.

			
“Where is Mama?” Carlotta screamed again anyway. 

			
Callie tried to take her in her arms, but Carlotta pushed her away. “Go away! I want my mama!”

			
Laura tried to tell them the truth. “Mama got very sick. Sicker than anybody thought….”

			
All three girls started wailing for their mama, wrenching themselves out of the arms holding them, and then, led by Flo, ran out and down the stairs. 

			
Callie, Laura, and Irene chased after them, but the girls were too fast. The older sisters ran to the schoolyard. Not there. Ran to the church. Not there.

			
Frantic, they stopped everyone on the streets to ask if they’d seen the children. 

			
“We need to go home and get the men,” Irene said. “We need to find the girls before it gets dark. Then she added, loud enough for everyone to hear, “Please Saint Anthony, finder of everything lost, please help us find the girls,” she begged. “Please. I vow to give the church one dollar every week of my life if you find them for us.”

			
“We need to find Papa, too,” Laura added, looking more terrified of finding him than of not finding her sisters.

			
Callie, every bit the outsider, suggested, “My husband is very smart, maybe he can find them.”

			
Irene, normally gentle as a falling snowflake finally snapped. She had about had it with this spoiled woman who hadn’t seen her own precious daughter since she was an infant.

			
“Go! Go find your husband and let us find your missing daughter. Just get out of my sight.”

			
Callie and Laura stopped dead in their tracks. Laura, who knew her sister-in-law better than anyone else (and had often been hidden by her when Frank was on a tear) couldn’t believe what she had just heard coming from sweet, quiet Irene. 

			
The tirade wasn’t over. 

			
“You don’t deserve that sweet baby girl you tossed away like garbage. Go!” Irene screamed. It was as though all the pent-up anguish she’d suffered from being unable to conceive, plus the terrible heartbreak of having her beloved mother-in-law die in her arms, came rushing out of her like lava out of Etna. “Go!”

			
Callie began to cry and turned to Laura for support. After all, Irene wasn’t even blood, yet she thought she could talk to her like that. 

			
What nerve.

			
But Laura turned her back on her sister and walked away with her sister-in-law, leaving Callie alone on the street not knowing what to do.

			
When Laura and Irene reached 151 Union Street to get more help, Ferdinando waved them in. They saw the three girls sitting at the counter, tears streaming down their faces, plates of panelli in front of them. 

			
But this was something even panelli couldn’t make better.

			
Trying to ease their pain, the normally standoffish Signora Buffa, who was herself tearing up, brought out a tray of fresh-made cannoli and said, “Mangiate, ragazze dolci, mangiate.”—Eat, sweet girls, eat.

			
Mama was dead and wouldn’t be coming back. That was a fact. Life was bitter despite the sweets laid out in front of them to ease the pain.

			
They had yet to come to grips with the reality that their papa would be their only parent. Who would protect them from him now? 

			
What would become of sweet Austin—the brother who still lived at home and the one their whiskey-soaked, raging father despised for his helplessness and his fits?

			
What would become of them all? 

			
Flo put her hands on her head and sobbed. Was she strong enough to take her mama’s place? It was then that she felt Maria’s arms wrap around her and heard her say, clear as day. “Nobody is better than you. Nobody.” 

			
No one else had heard that, but everybody in Ferdinando’s Focacceria heard the sound that followed: 

			
Ooooowwwooo. 

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 50 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 50 –

			
Days as Black as Night

			
151 Union Street

			
May 1930

			
After Signor Pirro finished preparing Maria’s body for viewing, Laura did her mother’s hair in an up-do with the same sparkly hairpins she’d used when Signor Capone and his men had come to the ranch.

			
They dressed her in her best blue taffeta dress with her tiny black pumps on her feet. On the fourth finger of her left hand, Laura put the small diamond wedding band that Maria’s sons had chipped in to buy Maria for her twentieth anniversary. 

			
Joe, Austin, Peter, Mariano, and some men from the funeral parlor carried Maria’s body in a coffin to 151 Union Street and lifted it up the stairs to the family apartment where she would be waked.

			
Signor Pirro and his staff placed the coffin atop a stand in the living room. The funeral had been postponed for a few days until sisters Helen, Mickey, and stepsisters Lucia and Antonella could get there by train. They came without their husbands, who had to stay back to guard the ranch and keep it running. Yellow Fly and Walter had made a circlet of feathers to put around Maria’s head, which the sisters hid for the time being from Mariano.

			
Helen and Mickey slept with Flo in Irene and Joe’s apartment, while Clara and Carlotta reluctantly slept at Callie and Raz’s house with Lucia and Antonella for the duration of the wake. None of them had ever been in a whole house in the city before, which to them looked like a palace in England—not that they wanted to be there. All four slept in the nursery with baby Kat. The only bright spot in those dark days was that the baby took to Carlotta, gurgling and laughing every time she came into view and crying when she went into another room like she knew they were sisters.

			
On day one of the viewing, the family had the first hour of the three-day wake to themselves in order to view Maria in private. Carlotta fainted, Clara threw up, and Flo stood stunned, not crying and not moving. They all thought the same thing: Mama looked like one of Auntie Irene’s porcelain dolls in her long, blue dress and fancy hairdo. She was even in a box just like the ones that the dolls had come in.

			
Austin somehow did not have a fit and just sat alone. He did not speak to anyone and wandered in and out of the apartment.

			
For the next three days people came and went. The older sisters used Ferdinando’s kitchen to prepare food, and Ferdinando himself cooked for them when things got too rough. 

			
Some of the folks who came to pay their respects were friends, some family. All of the La Donas who had moved to New York came, as did the Carlinos—all the way from Colorado.

			
When the Carlinos walked in, Callie got so weak in the knees she nearly fainted and was made to lay down on the couch next to where her mother’s body was laid out.

			
“Always has to steal the show,” someone said, too loud, as she was being revived. 

			
“Can’t face Charlie’s family after what she did,” said someone else. “And now with the new husband and all…” 

			
Her husband, Orazio, meantime, glared at his wife’s late husband’s family and left the wake in order to avoid shaking their hands. 

			
On the day of the funeral itself, which dawned ugly, the family alone gathered around Maria’s body in the coffin. They each bent down to kiss her ice-cold lips. As Mariano did so, he yanked the diamond ring off her finger.

			
Joe shoved his father and demanded that he put the ring back on their mother. “We gave her that ring, and you have no right to take it from her.”

			
Mariano answered, “It’s against the law of America to bury someone with jewelry. Believe me, I will give it to the next daughter who gets married.”

			
No one believed him, but it was not the time nor the place to start a family brawl, so they let it pass until a more appropriate time. 

			
As the scuffle was ensuing and just before Signor Pirro closed the coffin lid, Lucia and Antonella slipped the feather wreath on Maria’s head and made the sign of the cross. 

			
Antonella whispered, “Like Mama always said, ‘Miracles come from more than one God and bad times from more than one devil.’ I think we have both here today.”

			
The coffin lid was closed, and Mariano was never the wiser about the Indian crown of feathers on Maria’s head.

			
The funeral mass at Saint Mary Star of the Sea was presided over by none other than Monsignor Preston himself, with two of the parish’s Sicilian priests in attendance, as well as an organist and full choir. 

			
After the funeral mass, Maria’s coffin was lifted out of the church and into the hearse by six pall bearers: Joe, Austin, Peter, Mariano, Don Vito, and Ferdinando. Maria’s sons all wore black cowboy hats in tribute to the ranching life their mother had loved so well in Colorado. 

			
Maria’s body was taken to the local cemetery, which was crowded with hundreds of mourners, from the powerful to the powerless—everyone whose lives she had touched. 

			
Mariano had always failed to grasp the fact that, at the end of life, a person’s true legacy was how much they were loved and cherished by those they in turn had loved and cherished. He imagined all the big shots there had come to pay their respects to him. 

			
Austin, who had remained calm throughout the ordeal of the last few days, lost his composure when the coffin was lowered into the ground. First, he let out a wail, then dropped to the ground; his eyes rolled back in his head, and his body went into full seizure.

			
Flo, who had taken her mother’s place taking care of Austin, had carried a spoon in Maria’s handbag in case her brother went into one of his spells. She handed it to Joe who put it into Austin’s mouth to keep him from biting off his tongue. 

			
Mariano was furious. Once again, Austin had disgraced him in front of the Carlinos, and now, as he watched him seizing, his only thought was that he would be stuck with this freak forever. No more Maria to cater to him. 

			
Mariano’s face told the story of his anger and disgust, causing every mourner to have the same thought: What would become of poor Austin?

			
That night, Mariano left his grieving family in the apartment and went to his favorite tavern. It was the same one where he’d gambled away Maria’s money within the first month of moving to Brooklyn. But this night, he skipped the poker game in the back and made a big show in the crowded front room by kissing his latest mistress, the one he called Cora-Lee Due, although God knows what her name really was. 

			
Then, like a carnival magician, he waved his hands around, reached into his pocket, and pulled out Maria’s little diamond ring, stuck it on Cora-Lee Due’s pinky finger, raised her hand, and announced, “Drinks on me you bums!” 

			
Three days later Austin disappeared. 

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 51 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 51 –

			
Unloved, Unwanted, Unhoused

			
Red Hook, Brooklyn, New York 

			
May 1930

			
Two days after the funeral when everyone had gone home, Flo and Clara picked Carlotta up from school and took her home to the 151 Union Street apartment. It was the first time they were alone without Mama or their big sisters.

			
Austin was still at home, but he was weeping and trying to fry up some meat to make gravy for the pasta. He’d never made gravy before, and it wasn’t going well.

			
Flo and Clara had helped Mama make gravy before, and it looked like Austin had gone and burnt all the meat. He’d tried to make braciole, too, but forgot to stuff it with breadcrumbs or to even make breadcrumbs. Instead, he rolled up a piece of beef, tied it up with some string he found on a box of cannoli, which a mourner had brought, and fried it to death.

			
The three girls had a big laugh with Austin about the mess he’d made, which was good because it was the first laugh they’d had since Mama had passed.

			
As they were trying to clean it all up, Mariano walked in, saw what was going on, and smacked Austin across the face, “Tu sì ritardatu e nun apparteni â famigghia!” Mariano screamed, saying he was “retarded” and no longer belonged with the family.

			
When Austin wept harder, Mariano pushed him down, which caused the girls to cry. Mariano reached for Austin again, but Flo stepped in. 

			
“Papa! Please, just go out. We’ll take care of this. Please.”

			
Mariano grabbed his hat off the table where he’d flung it and slammed out the door.

			
The four siblings looked at one another. What now?

			
Austin had some money left over from the last time he’d played piano and said he’d take them all downstairs for a bowl of pasta con sarde, which is what they did. Mariano didn’t return home that night, so they were all able to sleep a little better than if he’d been there and raging.

			
The following morning, Flo, Clara, and Carlotta went off to school, kissing Austin goodbye. He promised them he’d do better making supper that night.

			
When the girls arrived home from school, Austin was nowhere to be found, and supper hadn’t been started.

			
Carlotta went next door to see if Auntie Irene had seen him, and she said she hadn’t since the night before. When Joe came home from the docks, Irene and the girls asked him if he’d spotted Austin, but he, too, had not.

			
Irene prepared enough food for all of them, so they ate supper in silence, each worried in their own way about where Austin could be.

			
Flo finally piped up. “If Austin is lost and he starts to fit, what will happen to him?” That got them all to crying again, so Joe told the girls to clean up the supper dishes, and he and Irene would go look for him.

			
They enlisted Peter, and the three of them scoured the neighborhood, but no one had seen him. 

			
At about eleven, Mariano sauntered in. When they told him that Austin was missing, he looked neither surprised nor concerned. Peter and Joe exchanged glances, and Peter grabbed his father by the shirt.

			
“If you done anything to Austin you better ’fess up right now, or you’ll be sorry you were ever born, you lousy piece of shit.”

			
When Mariano pulled back his arm to land a punch, Joe grabbed it and twisted it around his father’s back. Mariano’s sons were no longer boys he could beat at will. They were grown, strong men, and Mariano was a drunk. 

			
“I don’t know,” Mariano slurred. “For all I know, he had a fit and fell in the river.” 

			
After days of searching and going from police station to hospital to police station searching for Austin, Maria’s children had to face the fact that he was gone.

			
After much discussion, it was decided that Irene and Joe should pay a visit to Callie in her big stone house in Bensonhurst. Callie, busy with baby Kat, was shocked when she answered the knock on her front door to discover Irene, Joe, Jeannette, and Peter standing there.

			
She invited them in, sat them on the velvet sofa and chair in the living room, and brought out a tray with demitasse cups, a pot of espresso, and a bottle of Anisette. 

			
Thinking perhaps they’d brought Irene over to apologize, she sat down with them and put baby Kat on the floor on a blanket.

			
They all stared at each other for a bit until it got downright uncomfortable. Joe finally spoke up.

			
“Thing’s ‘r bad over at the apartment,” he said.

			
Callie just blinked, totally unaware of what her responsibility in this whole tragedy was supposed to be.

			
Figuring whatever was coming was not going to be good for her, she poured an extra big shot of Anisette into her espresso, sat up straighter, and folded her hands in her lap like the Queen of England meeting her subjects.

			
“Yes, I figured. Papa can be very strict.”

			
Peter jumped up. “Strict? Strict? Che cazzo dici? He’s a shit!”

			
Callie smoothed her skirt and said, “Well, yes, I know that too. I lived with him long enough, remember?”

			
“So you agree,” Irene managed to say, “that living with him is no place for your daughter. She won’t last ‘till she’s ten with that man!”

			
Callie, trying not to bring the conversation where she didn’t want it to go while trying to sound outraged at the same time, said, “You’re not thinking of putting her in an orphanage are you?”

			
Peter smacked his head. “Va fa Napoli,” he said, which kind of made no sense, but everybody knew he was trying not to get vulgar again. Not that it was easy to keep his temper with this sister of his. 

			
“We are here to say that Carlotta needs a mother—”

			
“And she’s got a mother,” Irene cut in. 

			
Callie picked Kat up and smoothed the blonde fuzz on her head. “But I have a baby to care for, and well, Carlotta doesn’t even like me. She sure don’t like Raz.”

			
They all stared at her, surprised that anything she said, thought, or did could still shock them. 

			
It took a lot to get Joe hot under the collar, but his collar was practically shooting flames at that point. “That’s because she don’t even know you! And it’s just about time that girl learnt the truth!” 

			
“The truth?” Callie sputtered. “But Raz—”

			
Irene stood up. “You mean to tell us that Raz don’t know little Carlotta is your daughter?”

			
“I didn’t say that!” Callie shot back like a fast ball pitcher. “It’s just that he don’t like the idea that…well, that, I, you know, had another man in my bed and that anybody might know it.”

			
They all looked at each other. Peter stood up and over Callie. “Anybody might know it? The whole of friggin’ Pueblo knew it. You were louder than a bunch of cats makin’ kittens. Every night.”

			
Joe jumped in, “And every mornin’. You was the only one who wasn’t embarrassed by your bed sounds, so don’t give me that shit.”

			
“What exactly do you expect me to do at this point, anyway?” Callie asked, clearly annoyed.

			
Jeannette finally spoke. “We expect you to do the right thing. That’s what. And don’t act like you don’t know what that is.”

			
“I have to talk to Raz about it,” Callie answered.

			
“If you don’t I will,” Joe snapped. “And if you don’t do it tonight, I’ll be back tomorrow to talk to that husband of yours—if he can stop writin’ plays long enough to listen.” 

			
“Oh, I think you’ll make him listen,” Irene said.

			
The four of them got up to leave, Peter turning over his full cup of espresso onto Callie’s fake Turkish carpet. 

			
“Oops.”

			
Laura was the one chosen to deliver the news to Carlotta. She gave her the truth but nothing like the truth.

			
She quietly explained to Carlotta, Flo, and Clara that “Auntie” Callie wanted very much for Carlotta to live with her for the time being.

			
“She feels that because you are still a little girl, it wouldn’t be good for you to live here with Papa.”

			
“Why can’t I live with you then?” Carlotta begged Laura.

			
“I would love nothing better, but you know Frank. He’s meaner than Papa and twice as drunk.”

			
They all agreed that was true.

			
“How long do I have to stay?” Carlotta asked.

			
Laura couldn’t answer this, which caused all three kids to become hysterical again.

			
“Mama died, Austin’s gone missin’, and now Carlotta has to go live with Callie and whazzisname, Mister Big Shot?” Flo sobbed.

			
Three days later, Callie, Orazio, and baby Kat showed up to take Carlotta away. Once again, Carlotta knew, as she must have known as an infant, that she was not wanted and would never really belong anywhere with anyone ever again.

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 52 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 52 –

			
Ruby’s Lips

			
All Around New York

			
December 31, 1930

			
It was the eve of Flo’s fifteenth birthday, the first one without her mama. Maria had always made a big fuss for each of her kids’ birthdays, bringing out a homemade cake flaming with candles, the family singing, “Tanti Auguri a Te”—“Many Wishes to You.” Flo would never forget how they’d all applaud wildly when she blew out the candles as though she’d completed an impossible task.

			
Last year, even though she’d gotten a pair of patent leather pumps from the Sears and Roebuck catalog for Christmas, Mama had presented her a week later on her birthday with a new store-bought dress. It had roses on it and a real silk sash around the waist.

			
So what? she thought. If there wasn’t going to be a cake or a birthday celebration, she’d put that fancy dress on and take a few trolley cars to Callie’s house to visit Carlotta, whom she missed like crazy. 

			
When Flo got there, her little “sister” was so excited to see her that she turned somersaults in the living room and then clung to her happy as a boardinghouse pup. She jumped up, twirled Flo around, and sang, “Happy Birthday to you, Happy Birthday to Firenze…” using her given Italian name which she thought was about the cleverest thing she’d ever done in her whole life.

			
Flo was shocked that not only had Carlotta remembered it was her birthday, but also that she’d made her a card with hearts and real lace, even though the little girl had no idea she’d see her that day.

			
Callie had forgotten that it was Flo’s birthday, but she tried to make up for it by telling her that she would ask Raz to take them all out to a local restaurant. “It’s not just your birthday. It’s New Year’s Eve,” Callie said. “Time this family had a celebration.”

			
Callie knew she wasn’t supposed to, but she put some lipstick on Flo anyway, because as she said, “You’re practically a grown-up lady now.”

			
Flo couldn’t believe how pretty she looked with her lips painted bright ruby red. She’d never thought of herself as pretty before, because she was too busy being, as Laura called her, “a Tom boy.” 

			
“This must be what my lips looked like when I was a baby,” she said.

			
Callie told Flo that that they’d been so bright red some folks thought that Mama had gone and painted those baby lips with rouge.

			
“Really?” Flo answered, turning her face this way and that as she stared at herself in the mirror atop Callie’s giant mahogany bureau. “I kinda ’member when they used to be red. But then when Blue got runned over by the train, they stopped bein’ ruby red and turned pale. Clara told me true, that when we almost got run down ourselves that first day in Brooklyn, my lips went all red again. But just for a minute.”

			
Callie didn’t think her husband would cotton to such spooky nonsense, so she dropped the subject and told Flo not to talk about it in front of him.

			
When Raz got home from work, Callie told him—not asked him, mind you—to take them all to a pizzeria to celebrate. Flo and Carlotta had never tasted anything as good in their whole lives as that pizza pie topped with pepperoni, they said. 

			
“I feel like I died and went to res-runt heaven,” Carlotta exclaimed taking a giant bite. 

			
Callie, Flo thought, was not at all like the mean lady her older sisters and mother had said she was. And Uncle Raz seems a pretty good feller too.

			
Then, when she thought the night couldn’t get any better, Raz drove her home in his Buick car. 

			
Now this is livin’.

			
The only bad part was that when they reached 151 Union Street, Carlotta got to crying and begging to come back upstairs to live with her and Clara again. But as they all knew, that could never be. 

			
Living with Callie and Raz wasn’t the best situation for Carlotta, but it sure beat living with Mariano and the puttanas he’d bring home. And besides, it was the only situation possible.

			
Flo tried to hop out of the car, but Carlotta clung to her like a monkey to a tree. She gently pried the little girl’s arms off, promising to come back the next week to visit.

			
She felt awful about leaving Carlotta, but truth be told, she also had a bit of a spring in her step because Callie had made her feel very special on her first birthday without her mama. Flo was also anxious to get upstairs to Clara so they could ring in the new year together. They’d get out the pots, pans, and spoons and make a world of racket at midnight—just like Mama used to do.

			
But as Flo climbed the stairs, she heard yelling and furniture being tossed around. 

			
Oh God, what now? she thought, dreading what was waiting for her inside the apartment when she opened the door.

			
Mariano was drunk and Clara was whimpering, trying to hide herself under the table. From the way their father was lunging at her sister, it was clear the bastard had filth on his mind.

			
The sight brought Flo an unexpected flash of memory that she’d kept hidden in her brain since she was a little girl.

			
Mickey. Colorado. Her mother. A gun. 

			
So, not thinking—or maybe not caring—about the consequences, she jumped on her father’s back, punching and kicking. 

			
He tossed her off and saw that she had painted lips. The shock of seeing his daughter with those same red lips she’d had as a devil baby made him stop thinking about groping Clara and start wailing on Flo instead.

			
“Whore!” he screamed, reaching for her and ripping the dress her mama had given her one year ago to the day. 

			
“Ruby! Painted lips like a puttana! Ruby the whore.”

			
With that, “Ruby” grabbed a kitchen knife, which he easily snatched out of her hand, yelling, “Strega! Mavara! La strega deve morire!”—Witch! The witch must die—over and over.

			
Clara scooted out from under the table and tried to stop him, but she was helpless as a little bug against the big man.

			
“You try to touch my sister again, and I will kill you. I swear!” Flo screamed.

			
Mariano laughed and lunged at Flo again, kicking her in her groin. No matter the pain, Flo refused to fall.

			
As she lunged back at him, the apartment filled with a sound so loud it was nearly deafening. Mariano’s hand dropped to his side, paralyzed, the knife falling and sticking into the linoleum. 

			
No, the sound wasn’t coming from New Year’s Eve whistles outside, it was coming from inside. 

			
Ooowwwooo.

			
It couldn’t have been more than a few seconds later that they heard footsteps running up the stairs. The door flung open, and Joe and Irene rushed in, done up in their finest celebratin’ clothes. 

			
Joe dug the knife out of the floor, and Irene grabbed hold of the girls who were scratched up and beaten, Flo’s beautiful dress all torn up.

			
Irene managed to get the hysterical sisters back to her own apartment and cleaned their wounds as Clara sobbed and clung to her. Flo would not allow herself to shed even one tear.

			
Joe was furious—not a thing that often happened to the level-headed cowpoke. He threw his father down to the floor, spit at him, and made sure he aimed it so that the glob of phlegm landed on the older man’s lips. 

			
“I’ll deal with you tomorrow,” he warned. Then he grabbed the house keys and locked the door from the outside trapping Mariano inside to rage alone.

			
The next morning, the girls, Joe, and Irene woke to a gentle snowfall blanketing the whole town. It made everything seem so calm and peaceful that it was hard to imagine what had happened a few hours earlier had really happened. 

			
That afternoon, with Mariano still locked in the apartment and snoring it off, they left to join some of the rest of the family for the holiday meal at Peter and Jeannette’s apartment. 

			
The girls couldn’t go back into their own home, and with all the stores closed for the holiday, they had to keep on the same torn and blood-spattered clothes they’d had on the night before.

			
When they walked into their brother and sister-in-law’s apartment to the delicious smells of roasting pork and fresh baked bread, the family festivities were already underway. But the shock of seeing those two teenage kids battered so bad turned the celebration into a meeting instead.

			
Laura was there with her kids, but not her husband. Callie and her family hadn’t been invited. 

			
“We won’t go back to Union Street and Papa ever again,” Flo announced. 

			
It didn’t surprise anyone, but the question remained: Where would they live?

			
The girls sat silent as they listened to everyone else debate their fate: They couldn’t move in with Irene and Joe as long as the brute still lived next door, that was for sure. Maybe they could move in with Callie and that new husband of hers. But, as Jeannette pointed out, Orazio was already annoyed that they’d taken in Carlotta. He’d go mad with two more kids. The girls were certainly welcome to move in with Peter, Jeannette, and their babies, but the apartment was already overcrowded to overflowing. The final suggestion was that they could stay with Laura and her family in Frank’s family’s apartment. No way. That was the worst of all possible solutions. 

			
The only thing that was clear was that the girls couldn’t and wouldn’t stay with Mariano.

			
It was about then that Flo noticed that in addition to her bruises, she had developed big, scaly red patches overnight on her arms and the tops of her hands. 

			
This city, this father, this way of life was destroying her.

			
She heard someone come up with the bright idea that Flo and Clara could each live with different members of the family.

			
Flo could move in with Peter, while Clara could stay with Callie. Not perfect but it was safe. 

			
Flo was only fifteen, but she knew what she had to do. There was no way on earth that she’d be separated from Clara.

			
She stood up, trying as best as she could to cover up the ugly, scaly patches on her skin.

			
“Everyone be quiet!” she yelled over the din. The room for the first time fell silent. 

			
“I have something to say. Me and Clara—we will go back to Colorado,” she announced. “We can live with Mickey, Antonella, and Jack, Yellow Fly, Black Bill, Helen, and Silas. We want to be with our animals and ride our horses. We can be cowgirls just like Mickey. That’s what we want to do. That’s what we will do.”

			
When the family got over the shock of Flo taking charge of her life over the plans of her family, or their attempt at plans, they all started talking at once.

			
So, Clara stood up and yelled, “Everybody! Shut up! Yup. That’s what we’re gonna do.”

			
Flo put her arm around her sister and spat out, “We won’t be separated, and we won’t live in this terrible city one more minute.” 

			
Then she grabbed a few struffoli—honey balls—from the platter of sweets on the table. “If you don’t send us back, I swear we’ll hop a freight train.”

			
She popped one of the tiny fried treats into her mouth and declared, “OK, it’s settled then? We’re goin’ home.”

			
Clara grabbed her sister’s hand for courage and repeated, “We’re goin’ home.” 

			
Then she stopped and added, “Maybe that’s where Austin went too. Home. To Colorado.”

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 53 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 53 –

			
Loss and Found

			
New York to Colorado

			
January 1931

			
So, it was decided. Flo and Clara would go back to Pueblo. 

			
Until they could leave, though, the girls crowded in with Irene and Joe, everyone on Mariano high alert. It would be at least two weeks before they could finish their travel arrangements and get it set up with Mickey and the rest. 

			
Then out of the clear blue sky, three days before they were scheduled to leave, Flo handed Joe and Peter a cable. 

			
“What is this?” Peter wanted to know.

			
“It’s where Austin is. We want to take him with us to Colorado.”

			
The cable read: “Alive. Stop. Pilgrim State insane asylum.”

			
The brothers looked confused. “Huh?”

			
“I wrote a letter to Don Vito when Austin disappeared. I figgered if anyone could find him, it would be him. I hoped he might send someone to look for him, and sure enough, they found him. That’s what this cable means,” she answered.

			
When they all stared at her, stunned, she finished up by saying, “I didn’t think he’d run away, and I for sure knew he weren’t dead. Don’t ask me how I knew. I just knew.”

			
The brothers turned the cable over in their hands. Joe asked, more to himself than to the others, “Papa? The sumnabitch had him committed?”

			
“It sure looks that way,” Peter said, shaking his head and slamming his fist into his other hand. “Now we just gotta find this place.”

			
“I know where it is,” Flo piped up. “I went to the library, and the lady there helped me. It’s in a town called Brentwood in a place called Long Island.”

			
Early the next morning, Flo, Joe, and Peter were heading out to Long Island with a bag of Austin’s clothes in a big Cadillac sedan that Joe had borrowed.

			
The drive was long—almost fifty miles—and cold. The car was supposed to have heat, but it was a lotta show and no go. 

			
They thought the same thing about Pilgrim State when they pulled up. It looked like it was built for show and no go, with its massive brick walls and hundreds of barred and caged windows. This was not a hospital made to comfort the mad, but to incarcerate them. The gigantic structure had a center entrance with two wings jutting out on each side like the arms of a giant. It looked frightening—at least from the outside.

			
“Why would they build a place that looks so awful to hold people who are sick?” Flo asked. There was no answer.

			
Inside was worse. Folks in every state of crazy were wandering the halls screaming, mumbling to themselves, walking like zombies, crying, and fighting. To call it terrifying would be to make it seem more like a carnival fright house than the scary asylum it really was.

			
They found the administrator’s office and asked for Austin Barbera. After a few hours of waiting, a man in a dark suit came around to tell them which ward he was in.

			
“We’re his family and we’re here to take him home,” Peter said.

			
“Home?” the man asked pointing to the paper in his hand. “It says right here: ‘Austin Barbera was admitted suffering from insanity. He doesn’t have a home or a family.’” 

			
“I’m here to tell you different,” Joe said.

			
“And I’m here to make sure you understand,” Peter added.

			
“Hmmm. Perhaps we can start with a short visit,” the man offered, more as an order than a suggestion. 

			
“Let’s start with ripping up that form,” Peter answered. “Then you can go ahead and get another form that gets him sprung from this joint.”

			
“Well, it’s more complicated than that,” the man said.

			
“No, I don’t think it is,” Joe snapped. “We’re family, he’s a grown man, and he was confined against his will. The fella who got him committed—our father—is a drunk and had no authority to do it. Austin is not a minor.”

			
The man just stood there, so Flo said, “Mister, I think you should do what my brother said. Right away.”

			
The implied threat did not go over well, but he knew the family knew they were within their rights, and besides, the place might be brand new but was already crowded.

			
They followed him to the ward where they were met by a huge male attendant standing in front of a bolted door. He walked them down another hall to Austin’s “room.” Joe looked through the tiny window of the locked metal door of the cell and saw Austin lying on the floor, facing the brick wall. He was bound in a straitjacket. 

			
“Get him out of that contraption right now,” Joe demanded.

			
The attendant smirked at them and said, “Can’t do that. He’s a violent one, that one.” 

			
“He’s the gent’list gent on earth,” Flo cried. “He’d never hurt no one!”

			
“That just ain’t so, missy,” the attendant said. “He hit me when we tried to put him in the tubs, and he hit the other fellas too.”

			
They didn’t even want to know what “the tubs” were. 

			
Flo stood on tippy toes to look for herself into the window and almost sicked-up at the sight of her beloved brother all bound up on the floor. “Austin!” she screamed. “Austin! We’re here to get you out.”

			
After several more hours of paperwork with Joe signing this and that official document while Peter and Flo stood outside their brother’s cell, Austin was released.

			
An attendant removed the straitjacket and led him, wobbling, out of the cell door to his waiting family and into the bright electric lights of the hallway. He rubbed his eyes because all he could see were spots as they went from the dark cell to the glaring lights. They all prayed that the lights—a few of which were blinking from a power shortage or some damn thing—wouldn’t bring on a seizure. If that happened, they knew he could be committed all over again. 

			
Austin himself thought maybe he was already having a seizure because once the spots cleared up, he couldn’t believe what he saw before him was real. How could his brothers and sister actually be there right in front of him? 

			
“We come to take you home, brother,” Joe said as Austin collapsed in tears into his arms.

			
“Papa…” Austin tried to say, but confinement had confused him so much that he couldn’t continue. He didn’t know what was true, what was a dream, what was a lie.

			
“Flo is the one who found you,” Peter said. This seemed to give Austin a moment of clarity before he went blank again.

			
They changed him into the clothes Peter had brought and walked him to the car. As they were piling in, Austin started to cry. “No! No, Papa, no.”

			
“You will never see that bastard again,” Peter assured him. “Never.”

			
Flo took his hand. “Austin, we’re all going to live in Colorado. You, me, and Clara. Not Papa.”

			
He looked confused but understood on some level that he was safe. It would be days or maybe even weeks before the barbiturate, Luminal, which he’d been force-fed in the asylum was out of his system.

			
Austin stayed with Peter, his wife, and children, never speaking much but crying a lot. Would he ever be the same, they all wondered.

			
Two weeks later, although he was hardly himself but at least had started to communicate, the family, who had delayed the girls’ trip home, decided it was finally time for Austin, Flo, and Clara to make the move.

			
Bags packed, they boarded the train to go back to the ranch in the opposite direction from which they’d come seven years earlier.

			
“I’ll write every single day,” declared Clara from the open window of the moving train to the family waving goodbye from the platform. “Every day. I promise.”

			
Laura smiled through wet eyes, but Irene wept uncontrollably. 

			
“Joe, I know it’s for the best, but those girls are like my own children.”

			
Joe hugged his wife and said, “Sweetheart, I promise one day I’ll take you to Colorado. Maybe even to live there.” 

			
She didn’t know that, much to his own peril, Joe had removed the two porcelain dolls Irene had stuffed into the girls’ luggage for good luck. He hid them in the basement of the old building where Irene never ventured. 

			
Them girls have enough to deal with without getting scared out of their wits when they open their bags, he’d thought. He figured he’d deal with Irene when or if they went back to the ranch one day and Irene went looking for her bambini. 

			
As the train pulled clear of the station—porcelain doll-less—Austin was frightened. Clara was excited. Flo held off on having an opinion for the time being.

			
They settled in and right off dug into the tomato and Provolone sandwiches Irene had made for them, each thinking the same thing: Will it be the same? What will become of us?

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 54 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 54 –

			
Return of the Ruby Rover

			
Barbera Ranch, Colorado 

			
January 1931

			
“The hell with waiting for them in Pueblo!” Mickey declared. “We’re going to Denver to grab our kin right when they get off that train in the city.” 

			
“But their tickets are paid for all the way to Pueblo,” cranky Helen protested. “I love them and all, but that’s no cheap ticket.”

			
Mickey shot her a look. “Jesus Christ, Helen. You were born a cheapskate, and you’ll die a cheapskate.” Cranky Helen looked even more cranky and walked away in a huff with Mickey calling after her like a bird, “Cheap, cheap, cheap.”

			
When their train pulled into the Denver station, Flo, Clara, and Austin reached for their suitcases and climbed off and onto the platform looking for the track where the train to Pueblo was scheduled to arrive in several hours. There were more tracks than they’d expected. They had forgotten just how big the Denver station was.

			
“Just one more train ride, and we’ll be home again,” Flo assured her brother and sister, hoping she sounded brave as all get out and not scared to death like she really was. The new plan, she announced, was for them to go inside the station and look at the big board to see which track and at what time the Pueblo train would pull in.

			
Before they got more than a few feet, they heard screaming and yelling. 

			
“Oh my God!” Clara said, practically losing her breath. “It’s them. It’s them!”

			
Running towards them, arms outstretched, were a group of characters as colorful and cowpoke-looking as you could imagine. Mickey, Helen, Yellow Fly, and Walnut Jack. 

			
The three travelers dropped their bags and ran to them, eager to be taken into their big arms—especially Mickey’s, which were now especially big.

			
Yellow Fly, his braids flying out from the bottom of a top hat, a giant medallion flopping over his coat, ran right past, shouting, “Valises!” In their excitement they had dropped their bags, leaving them free for thieves to make off with.

			
Mickey, who was garbed in wide overalls, a big, banged-up, flat-brimmed hat, and a jacket made of pelts, grabbed Clara, hugging her so tight the girl thought she’d turn blue and faint. 

			
Austin recognized Walnut Jack, who rushed up, engulfing him in a bear hug. The giant would have been hard to mistake for anyone else anyway, seeing how he was dressed pretty much the same as Mickey. But he was now missing the familiar eye patch over the mess that was once a working eye. He had long ago declared that he wasn’t going to wear it anymore because he thought the patch made him look “too citified.”

			
Helen, in a deerskin coat and cowboy boots, her hair done up high and fancy, reached for Flo and threw her arms around her kid sister, who immediately burst into tears. 

			
It was the first time since Maria’s funeral that Flo had allowed herself to cry.

			
Safe. They were safe.

			
They piled into the bed of a pickup truck, bundled under big, thick, wool blankets for the drive all the way back to the ranch. Never had freezing cold and falling snow felt so wonderful.

			
When they saw the huge Circle Double Bar A sign piled high with snow like a hat, Flo and Clara got up, threw off their blankets, and did a crazy dance. They jumped out of the moving truck, running the rest of the way home, arms raised, reaching for the endless sky.

			
They could see right off that things were different from what they remembered. The barn was bigger and so was the ranch house itself. Cattle were grazing on what wheat they could forage as well as the giant bales of hay that had been collected and stored by the ranch hands for winter. 

			
Cowpokes they’d never seen before were herding on horses that they’d also never seen before. As they approached the house they passed a new corral too. They were met on the new, wide front steps by Antonella, Lucia, and Flip, who’d grown almost as tall as the two tiny women. There was also a little girl standing with them who might have been the baby Lucia had been carrying when they left. Antonella, who’d been holding a newborn in her arms, passed the infant off to Flip. 

			
Are they glad to see us or angry we’ve returned, Flo wondered, as the two stepsisters met their big hugs with stiff arms and half smiles.

			
Austin, Clara, and Flo walked into the house, pointing out this new room and that new contraption. Antonella then led the way to their bedroom as though it was her house and not theirs.

			
When Flo took off her coat and lifted her suitcase onto the bed, the sleeves of her blouse rode up, revealing the scaly patches on her elbows and arms.

			
Antonella screamed and pointed at them, as though the newly returned girl had become a monster. 

			
Flo quickly pulled down her sleeves to cover up her shame. I think I got happy too soon, she thought.

			
Mickey noticed her sister’s sores but also her “wife’s” reaction, and without even asking what had happened to Flo’s arms, she spun Antonella around and said, “Here’s the way it is, dearie. You don’t be lookin’ at my sister like that or actin’ like you just done, or you might find yourself right back where you come from.” 

			
Antonella started to protest that Flo could be carrying a disease that would get them all sick. Mickey stopped her cold. “Va eccati!” she snapped, which basically means, “go jump in a lake,” “get lost,” “calm the hell down,” or whatever the speaker wants it to mean.

			
Antonella sulked away, at which point Mickey put her arm around Flo and said, “Don’t pay her no mind. You ’member how she always was. She just don’t want me payin’ no attention to nobody who ain’t her.” And then she followed Antonella out the door to have a bigger “Don’t-you-give-my-kin-no-shit” talking-to with Antonella and her sister.

			
It began with, “When you two sickly, misshapen kids was orphans, we took you in. But Flo, Austin, and Clara? They’re blood.”

			
Nobody mentioned that they weren’t yet orphans when Joe had found them.

			
Cranky Helen saw Flo’s scaly patches and said, “Don’t you fret, darlin.’ We’ll take you to the doc who will fix you right up.”

			
“Doc Dawson?” Flo asked.

			
Helen scowled making her dimples flash. “Oh honey, Doc Dawson tied one on last spring and fell off a ridge. They say he was a goner before he hit bottom.”

			
“He was a nice man,” Clara remembered, walking into the room.

			
“Nice and drunk,” Helen added. “But we got a new doc now. He’s not a drunk, but he ain’t as good as Doc Dawson neither.” 

			
Fat chance he’ll be able to fix me ‘right up’ then, Flo realized. 

			
But at least she was home. Or was this still her home? 

			
I want my mama, Flo yearned, fighting back months and months of longing and pain as she looked around at the house that she had imagined would ease the hurt. But home was her mama—not a place. 

			
Now what?

			
While they all stood there uncomfortably looking at one another, from outside came the most beautiful sound in the whole wide world. The only sound that could ease her pain. 

			
Ooowoooo. 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 1 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 1 –

			
The Feral Baby

			
Wet Mountains, Colorado 

			
December 31, 1915 11:59 PM 

			
The moment 1915 turned into 1916, two things happened on Greenhorn Mountain that would change everything everywhere forever: A feral baby girl was born. And the seed for the American Mafia in the West was sewn. 

			
They say that baby girl came barreling out of her mama’s belly howling—not crying mind you, but howling—louder than the blizzard roaring outside, louder than the hungry wolves circling that Godforsaken two-room shack where the fugitive La Barbera family had been hiding out for nearly two years. Another girl was the last thing her brute of a father, Mariano La Barbera, wanted. 

			
She wasn’t the first, and she wouldn’t be the last. 

			
But this one? She had that wild thing about her—like a wolf you rescue as a pup. No matter how you try to domesticate it, it will always have an untamed instinctive part that wants out, that hunger that’s got to be satisfied, that instinct to survive and fight. 

			
Mariano knew that. 

			
The kids knew that with his jug of homemade brew already half-emptied plus the howls of their newborn sister, the bleeding of their mama, and their own whimpering, their papa was being driven into such a frenzy that he might go ahead and kill them all.

			
“Strega!” he bellowed each time the newborn opened her bright, ruby-red lips and howled. Then in Sicilian, “Mavara!”—Witch.

			
But their mama—her name was Maria—knew that wasn’t true, and she wasn’t going to let her new baby be called such names, such filth. Normally a quiet woman who had long ago accepted the harshness of life—and death—in America, she suddenly gave out a cry so loud the children heard it even over the deafening roar of the raging blizzard. Their papa didn’t notice, or maybe he just didn’t give a damn. 

			
Maria’s scream was so piercing, the kids thought maybe she was hemorrhaging and dying. They had seen new mothers die plenty of times back in the camp. They’d just bleed out until there was nothing left. 

			
They were not only scared—they were also desperate. If Mama died, they’d be on their own with no one to protect them. Their snake-headed father would let them die—or beat them to death—as sure as eggs is eggs. 

			
“Mama! Per favore Mama!”—Please Mama!—they begged. But her answer didn’t comfort them either.

			
She only let out a low rumble and rasped, “Firenze!” She took a breath, the frozen air rushing out of her and tried again, louder this time: “Firenze!” 

			
Teenage Pietrantonio, who called himself “Peter” in the American way, didn’t understand and thought she might be calling upon a saint for help. “Mama, stai bonu? Ti nesci sangu?”—Are you alright? Are you bleeding? 

			
Maria shook her head, touched his face, and said, “Nun mi servi nenti,”—I don’t need anything. Then the woman who never made any decision without her husband’s consent, declared in as strong a way as she could, “Lu picciriddu si chiama Firenze.”—The baby is called Firenze. 

			
The kids forgot for a moment how cold and hungry they were and just stood in front of their parents’ makeshift wooden bed, dumbfounded. Then they all stared at their papa, knowing he’d strike, not caring that their mama had just given birth and was holding a brand-new baby. But no, that crazy bastard didn’t move. He didn’t seem to be among them any longer. He was in another place. 

			
Without blinking or acknowledging anyone, he got up, opened the cabin door, and let the blizzard blow right in. He stepped outside, threw his hands up, and yelled, “Si chiama Firenze? Si chiama Firenze? Mavara!”

			
Then, remembering that the infant had howled, not cried, he realized with horror that she might be worse than a witch, she might be lupa mannaro—a monstrosity. It was a common belief in Sicily that babies conceived during a full moon would become lupo mannaro. He didn’t remember when the newest baby was conceived, of course, because he took Maria every night in the most brutal ways. 

			
This night though, he wasn’t thinking about sex as he stood in the demon blizzard as if it was as easy on him as the air on a warm spring day. He was a broken man and wasn’t able to feel much of anything anymore except anger. But now, for the first time in his life, he felt fear. 

			
He reached down and picked up a splintered and snow-covered log and felt its heft before turning back to the door. The bambina had to be killed before it grew.

			
He went back inside, pounding the log over and over into his palm as he moved towards Maria and the baby. This is what it had come to. No food, no money, no escape, and now his wife had given birth to a girl—and a wild one at that. 

			
End this before it begins. 

			
When he reached the bed, the kids screamed—but not at their papa. A massive grey wolf—a lupa—with unnatural blue eyes had followed him into the room. Covered in ice and snow, she bared her giant fangs and growled. Then she leapt towards the bed. 

			
There was no place to hide. It was so quick, even Mariano snapped out of his trance long enough to get his wits about him and quickly retreated outside, never turning his back on the animal—only on his freezing children.

			
Once, he had been a man so brave he’d fought all the power in the world in order to make a better life for his family. Now he was a man who would abandon them inside a cabin with a wild beast. Not that he’d ever admit to such a thing. 

			
Perhaps he hoped the beast would save him the trouble of killing the crazy, howling infant and the smaller kids, too, since they’d put up the least fight. 

			
Inside the shack, the children watched, horrified, as the animal, mouth open, salivating, and with her big canines gleaming, focused on their precious new baby sister. The wolf, they all believed, had come to devour her…and maybe them too. Maria knew better.

			
Peter spotted Mariano’s six-shooter on the table. He managed to grab it without being mauled. Angelina, the oldest sister, cried, “Ammazza u lupa! Ammazzulu Petrantoniu!”—Kill the wolf, kill him Peter! 

			
The wolf was too close to his mother and baby sister for Peter to shoot. If only their older brother, Giuseppe, were there. He’d know what to do. But Giuseppe had left in the spring on a cattle drive, swearing he’d bring back money. He still hadn’t returned. Maybe he was dead. Nobody knew. 

			
So, right then, Peter assumed the oldest brother role and said, as quietly as he could, “Come on kids,” forcing his sisters outside into the storm. He fired a shot to drive the lupa’s pack away, saving not just the kids but also his papa. 

			
Not thinking beyond the moment, young Peter shut the door, trapping himself inside the cabin with his mother, his new sister, and the wolf.

			
If it were just him against the animal in the tiny shack, he might stand a chance. But that wolf would sure as hell rip his mama and the baby apart before he ever had a chance to shoot. He had to get off a shot first. 

			
Peter yelled to his father, who couldn’t have gone more than a few steps in the blizzard with the wolf pack gathered behind him. “Papà! Pi favuri, non struppiari a picciridda! Pi favuri Papà!”—Papa please! Help! Please take care of the children. Please! 

			
Mariano may have heard him or maybe not. But either way, he didn’t budge. 

			
So, Peter, not yet old enough to sport whiskers, tried to lure the wolf away from Maria and the baby so he could shoot. It was impossible. The wolf did not even turn his way. 

			
With his small hands shaking, he aimed the gun, but instead of pulling the trigger, he beheld a sight so crazy, he knew he should never tell anyone about it. 

			
That wolf, well, she just ignored him, shook the ice and snow from her fur, and didn’t even budge when he screamed. Instead, she leapt onto the bed where Firenze lay in Maria’s arms. 

			
Maria tried to cover the baby with her own body, but it was no protection. 

			
Peter cocked the gun, but he was shaking too hard and was too scared of killing his mama or sister to pull the trigger. 

			
At the sound of the hammer being cocked, la lupa turned to him, bared her teeth, shining dangerous in the little bit of candlelight, and growled a warning. 

			
Had the smell of blood been so strong that the wolf went against her instincts and left her pack behind to enter into the domain of humans? 

			
It had been a tough winter, and food had been scarce even for these rulers of the mountain. You’d have to be just plain loco to not figure that the she-wolf was going to devour that baby girl right in front of her. It was the way of the wild up there on that muntagna orribile e spietata—the horrible, ruthless mountain.

			
But the little one? She opened her eyes and—God’s truth—gurgled up at the wolf, happy as a rich man’s newborn swaddled in the finest linen. 

			
The beast opened its giant mouth, dripping slime, her tongue lolling, and growled deep and low before ripping the ragged birthing blanket off of Firenze. Maria finally screamed and clutched the newborn even closer. 

			
The wolf paid no mind to the terrified mother and instead raised her massive head, howled, and shoved the baby out of Maria’s arms with her snout. Maria could do nothing but watch, helpless, as the she-wolf opened its jaws. But instead of tearing Firenze to pieces as easily as she’d torn the birthing blanket, la lupa began to lick her. She licked her matted black ringlets, her face, her tiny hands and feet, her legs, and chest, cleaning away any extra birthing fluid clinging to her. 

			
At some point, Maria began to understand the extraordinary thing she was witnessing—mother-to-mother. La lupa was treating that baby girl as her own. She’d heard about things like this back in the old country.

			
When Firenze’s tiny body had been licked clean, damned if that beast didn’t lick her crazy ruby lips before jumping back down to sit watch at the foot of the bed. Peter was paralyzed, no longer just with fear, but with awe.

			
Many minutes passed—which seemed like many hours—before the animal threw its giant head back and howled again, this time so loud that the freezing kids and their papa could surely hear it in spite of the deafening winds.

			
Outside, the smaller children—whose lips were turning blue, the snot and tears freezing on their faces—wailed, believing their mama was dead and that their baby sister had been eaten by the wolf. They knew it because Mama, baby Firenze, and Peter had all gotten spooky-quiet inside that damned shack.

			
But back inside, with the snow rushing through the gaps between the log walls, none of that had happened, even as the wolf’s unholy howling continued. 

			
Peter swore that—damn!—la lupa kept on howling until the tiny newborn pursed her lips and howled back: “Blooooo,” was the sound that came from her bright-red baby lips. 

			
Only then did the grey wolf put her head down and stalk back to the door, brushing Peter with her massive body as she passed. He carefully swung it open, jumped back, and the wolf trotted back out into the blizzard, bypassing the terrified children outside. 

			
As they rushed back in, gathering their blankets around them, Peter spotted his father, stumbling like a specter trying to make his way back in the blinding snow. He also could make out the form of the wolf. She charged towards Mariano, knocking him off his feet and ripping at his pant leg. Just as suddenly, she turned and ran back to her pack, leaving Papa bleeding but alive.

			
When the kids were all back inside, it was so dark and so quiet that they were sure their mama and the baby were dead.

			
Then they heard it. A tiny baby howl: “Blooooo…”

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 55 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 55 –

			
Home on the Range

			
Barbera Ranch, Colorado

			
January 1931

			
Was that Blue? She had seen it for herself. Blue had collapsed and died trying to catch Flo’s train. 

			
Nonetheless, she ran out of the room, through the kitchen, and out the front door. Yes! There she was: her own Blue, staring at her with those magical blue eyes and a litter of little ones.

			
Could it be that Blue didn’t remember her? She wasn’t running to her or even excited to see her. So, Flo ran to her beloved other mother. The wolf remained cautious, taking a few steps towards her but more to protect her pups than to greet Flo. 

			
“Blue!” she cried. “It’s me—Flo.” The wolf let out a low growl and trotted back to her pups.

			
“Blue. It’s me,” she sobbed.

			
Mickey approached her younger sister, bent down, and put her hands on Flo’s shoulders. “Sweetheart, that ain’t Blue.” 

			
“I know Blue went and died when she was chasing me on the train. I saw her collapse,” Flo said, “but I also know that it’s her all right.”

			
“Blue didn’t die that day,” Mickey explained. “We didn’t see no wolf body on the ground next to the tracks or even on the tracks, so we looked for her that day. And the next, and the next. Somehow, she survived, though. We were sure of it. Reckon, she went off into the wild. Then one day, don’t know how much longer, but it was a while, Blue came back to the ranch with a belly full o’ babies.”

			
Flo looked confused, so cranky Helen picked up the story.

			
“That mama-wolf there? She isn’t Blue. She’s her offspring. We call her Bella Blue.”

			
Flo didn’t know how to process this information. “But why didn’t you tell me?” she demanded.

			
“We didn’t know you thought she died, so how could we tell you?” 

			
Clara perked up. “Is there a new Bella too?” 

			
“Well, we got a few donkeys and a coupla mules,” Walnut Jack said, his bad eye squinting against the sun even though there was no eye to speak of. “But this here wolf is named in honor of the an’mals what saved you in the flood.”

			
“Your Blue,” Mickey explained as best as she could without crying herself, “she passed on two years ago now. Right here.” Then, pointing to the west, she added, “She’s buried on the first rise over. She’ll spend eternity overlooking the whole spread. We can walk over later. OK?”

			
“OK.” Flo blinked back tears, trying to take it all in. “Bella Blue?” she called without expecting any response, but the female grey padded over. When Flo held out her hand, Bella Blue licked it and rubbed up against her and then did the impossible—for a wolf anyway. She rolled over for a belly scratch.

			
“BB,” Flo said. “I’ll call you BB.”

			
Yeah, maybe they were home again. 

			
BB would never be as domesticated as Blue, but Flo and Clara were no longer tiny girls who needed to be protected in the wild—or from the wild man called Papa either. Austin was now the challenge. And as miraculous as Blue had been to Flo, so was Bella Blue to Austin. She became his, and she, like Blue, was able to sense when Austin was about to fit and would warn him. 

			
Mickey made it very clear that there was to be no prejudice against her sisters or Austin on this ranch. They were to be as loved and welcomed as if they’d never left. And in turn, they, too, would be given the same chores as any of the other siblings. 

			
She was still worried about the stepsisters though. “Mama took you in and my sisters accepted you, and you just Goddamned better—” 

			
Helen, riding shotgun for her sister, cut Mickey off before she said something she’d regret. “Love them like we love you both. If you are part of this family, then you love them like we do—”

			
“Or you get the hell out,” Mickey finished, perfectly willing to say something she might regret. But then again, Mickey never regretted anything she ever said.

			
Instead, she stuck her hands in her belt, looked at Antonella and Lucia and said, “Got it? Good.”

			
“Let’s walk up the rise so I can visit Blue,” Flo said. “I will put my things away later. First my Blue.”

			
When they were nearing the top, they saw two tombstones. “Who else died?” Clara asked, panicked. 

			
That’s when they found out that Silas had passed shortly after Mama, leaving young Helen a widow. He was buried next to Blue.

			
“We didn’t tell you because you was already so aggrieved,” Mickey said. “We wanted you to try to find some peace. But we knowed how terrible Papa would be. Peace was never somethin’ anybody could have around him.”

			
“Walter carved the tombstones himself,” Helen said, wiping away tears. Flo, Clara, and Austin hugged Helen, and the three cried, not just over their deaths but over the wonder of the lives lived by Silas and Blue. 

			
Silas’s marker read: 

			
Here Lies Our Brother Silas Smith

			
Best CowMan in Colorado

			
Blue’s read: 

			
Here Lies Our Beloved Blue

			
Mother Hero Friend

			
Would you—could you—go home again when those who kept you from harm and loved you even when you didn’t deserve it, no longer existed? 

			
Those were questions that, at that moment, didn’t have answers. What they did know was that they were back in Colorado without Mama, Blue, or Silas. 

			
But they didn’t know if it could ever again be home. 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 56 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 56 –

			
Skin in the Game 

			
Pueblo, Colorado 

			
1932–1935

			
It took time, but in time, Antonella and Lucia even came around. That ridge became Flo’s place of solace. She’d attend school and do her chores—herding cattle some days, tending to the pigs and goats on others—and then ride up there on her favorite horse, Stella. She’d sit until suppertime talking to Blue about everything: the good, the bad, the confusing.

			
Helen, as promised, had taken her to the new doc in town, a man named Dr. Neary, to find out how to get rid of the scaly rash that was taking over Flo’s skin. It was a nasty thing and caused her to constantly itch day and night. Doc said it wasn’t a rash but something called “psoriasis.” And it was permanent. He said it was brought on by “nerves.” 

			
“Nerves?” Flo asked. “What do you mean, and how do I get rid of it?”

			
“Well, darlin’,” the doc said, “I’m afraid that once you get it, you can’t get rid of it. Sometimes it comes on bad when you are highly emotional or frightened or have a shock. Like I said, it’s permanent, but we can treat it.”

			
Flo tried not to cry. She knew this was bad. She hated her skin, and she figured she might hate her future because of it, too. For one thing, she could never get married. What man would have a woman covered in red, scaly, itchy patches? For that matter, what man would she want to see that?

			
“I guess this means I’ll never have a boyfriend or anything…” she managed to get out. 

			
The doc looked surprised. “Of course you will,” he said like he really meant it. “Don’t you know that you’re a beautiful young lady?”

			
Beautiful? Nobody’s ever said that to me, she thought. He must be saying it because he feels bad for me. Yes, that’s it.

			
But Flo was beautiful. She’d turned into a five-foot-five, raven-haired stunner with a slim waist and strong muscular legs that went on forever. Every once in a while, she’d carefully apply lipstick to give her back those ruby lips she had been born with. She loved the way they made her mouth look, even though Papa had tried to ruin it by calling her “Ruby.” A whore named Ruby.

			
Doc made Flo a compound of tar that she was to smear on her sores wherever they were, which sometimes meant the tops of her hands, her elbows, and her legs from the knees down. 

			
Clara felt about as bad for Flo as she would have felt for herself and tried to make her feel better by saying, “Look it ain’t on your face, and you are still gor-gee-oooose.”

			
Smearing the black stuff on, Flo thought, was worse than the psoriasis itself. It was miserably uncomfortable, and it stained the bedsheets so bad that it looked like black blood. But it did relieve the itching.

			
She came to realize for herself that being out in the sun in the summer with her sleeves cut off and shorter pants on did help clear her skin up, and the tanner she got the better. 

			
She also came to understand that Antonella had assumed the full position as Mickey’s second spouse, taking on the traditional duties of wife and mother: bedmate at night, cook, housekeeper, and mother during the day. Lucia and Yellow Fly’s little girl, who was as wild and adventurous as Flo had been, was called Elu. And Mickey and Walnut Jack had just had another baby before the group returned home—that was the infant Antonella had passed off to Flip on the porch. Her name was Juicy. It was really Josephine, but no one ever called her anything but Juicy.

			
Not happy that Mickey had kept her bargain to bed down once a week with “that one-eyed freak,” as Antonella called Mickey’s husband, she was nonetheless happy to have another baby to care for. 

			
After a respectful period of mourning, cranky Helen took a job in town teaching English to the newly arrived children of the Italian miners. After Silas died—and Mama had been right, Helen had become a nursemaid during his waning years—she would often stay at the boarding house in town during the week. It wasn’t considered a racy thing to do because Pueblo was pretty far from the ranch, and if she didn’t have a ride home, it was easier to stay at the boarding house. Anyway, she was “the widow Smith” and “the teacher” and therefore a very respectable lady.

			
One fine spring eve, Helen was having supper with a teacher friend at the new café in town, when in walked the new fella that people were talking about, Michael Ambrosio. 

			
Michael was a tailor by trade, but he fancied himself a lecturer and intellectual. His main themes, when he could draw a crowd after mass on Sundays or town meetings on weekdays, were the joys of Communism and the wonders of vitamins. Ambrosio was blond, unimposing, slight, and smart. 

			
Helen attended one of his lectures on an evening when she had nothing better to do. After the lecture she remained undecided about whether he was brilliant or a blowhard. 

			
When she walked out the door he was standing outside shaking hands like he was a priest or something, and when he shook Helen’s hand it took long a time before she could pull it away. The next day she received a card at the boarding house asking if he could call.

			
What the hell, she thought. He’s not my type, but I do want to learn about vitamins.

			
In spite of her reservations about him, they began to see one another. He fell in love with her, and she eventually fell in like with him. What she admired was that Michael stood for something—anything. She thought his views about communism were right. After all, her mama had always said that all people were equal. 

			
She remembered Maria always saying, “Nobody is better than you. Nobody.” That meant that nobody was better than anybody else, right? Right. (Well, except for the mine owners and managers who were scum.)

			
But Helen wasn’t sold on Mike’s ideas about vitamins. She figured they got all the so-called vitamins they needed from their own beef, vegetables, and fruit. Why would she need some powder compound?

			
At one of Mike’s Wednesday night sparsely attended lectures, he tried making the case for vegetarianism and declared, “Beef is not just unhealthy but un-communist because not everybody can afford to buy a steak.” He was immediately pelted with two tomatoes and a head of lettuce.

			
This wasn’t, of course, the brightest cause to take up in cattle country. In fact, it was dumb as school in summer. Worse, it was a step too far for Helen the rancher’s daughter. She told him to take a short walk off a high mountain.

			
Thing is, cranky Helen got even crankier after the break-up, so it was probably good that their split didn’t last long. It took no time for Mike to figure out that life without beef was not worth life without Helen. So, he made the ultimate gesture to win back the woman of his dreams. He showed up after work at the boarding house bearing a bloody steak wrapped in butcher paper. 

			
A year later they married and moved to Brooklyn, Mike’s hometown. The locals were happy to get rid of him, the family was unhappy that he took her away from Colorado, but the Brooklyn contingent was thrilled to have her back—even if she was a cranky pain in the ass. Nothing made her happy, so it didn’t matter where she lived.

			
To prove his sincerity to his new bride, Mike opened a butcher shop.

			
“Love does crazy things to a man,” Mike would often say to justify his change in meat philosophy. He didn’t personally eat meat, but he sold enough of it to keep a roof over their heads. 

			
Meanwhile, during those same years, Austin found his calling as a cattleman and herded and drove with the best of them. On weekends he’d play piano at the Cock and Bull Saloon.

			
He also increased the goat herd until it, too, became a going enterprise. He still had seizures, but BB would warn him when one was coming on, and by that time, everyone around him was used to it. “Looks like Austin’s gonna go fittin’ again,” somebody would say, and someone else would grab the spoon he always kept in his pocket and stick it under his tongue.

			
Flo and Clara had attended school and graduated with honors and then tried to figure out what they would do with their lives.

			
Ranching seemed to be the only choice. It was what they knew, but they’d also lived in the big city. Life was still going on outside the cattle world, and they secretly told each other that they wanted a piece of that life too.

			
Clara, who always loved to shake it up, hadn’t missed a town hall dance since Jesus was a baby, and she learned every new step that came along. Maybe she would be a dancer she decided. But she had to get better at it.

			
Problem was, cowpokes weren’t very good at (or interested in) ballroom dancing. Square dancing sure, ballroom, not so much.

			
By the age of twenty, Clara, not five feet tall, decided to change her style from cowgirl to movie star. She bobbed, permed, and bleached her hair bright blonde to match her dancing idol, Ginger Rogers. 

			
With her chiffon dresses and yellow/white hair, she looked as smooth as new silk on the dance floor. She would have to find different partners, though, because the local fellas’ bowed legs were better for driving cattle than dancing foxtrots. 

			
It wasn’t until she learned to Peabody that she came into her own as a dancer. The Peabody was a dance in which you’d glide not step or jump around, and it seemed like it was invented just for her.

			
She practiced it with Flo every day and then taught a local boy, Jerry the blacksmith, to do it. He agreed to learn just so he could get close to Clara and hold her around the waist. Even though he wasn’t nearly as good a lead as she was a follower, they entered a dance contest and won twenty-five dollars.

			
Flo was happy that Clara and Austin had found something they wanted to do with their lives, but she still had no idea what she wanted for herself. 

			
She tended the animals and thought maybe she could become an animal doctor, but the chances of a young lady becoming a doctor, even an animal doctor, were not good. 

			
She volunteered at the veterinarian’s office, and eventually he helped her get a certificate of some kind to be a veterinary assistant. 

			
Still, Flo was restless. She had never lost that wild, untamed thing she’d been born with. There was always a part of her that was different, a part that wanted out of normal existence, a part that wanted to be free like…well, like a wolf.

			
Flo dated many young men who came calling. Maybe one would be different, she hoped. 

			
There wasn’t a single cowpoke who didn’t follow her around like a lovesick fool, but they didn’t know her secret shame. She always wore long-sleeved blouses and pants or dresses that covered her arms and half her hands, and thick stockings that covered the marks on her legs when she wore a shorter, more stylish skirt. 

			
So, she’d only go so far with each young fella before dropping him. When they wanted to hold her hand and she wasn’t in a flareup, she’d let them, but when her skin was erupting, she’d break up with them—and break their hearts. They never knew why she broke up with them, but they always landed as hard as being knocked off a bucking bronco.

			
As she’d say to Clara, “None of their damned business what my skin looks like. They don’t know, and I’ll be Goddamned if they ever will.”

			
“But some man will come along, and you’ll want him to know,” Clara would protest. Flo’d shut her up with a look. She had perfected their mama’s glare—the one that was so final and so definite it could shut up a howling bobcat.

			
But Clara knew her sister was not really a hard girl. Flo had a soft side. Prickly on the outside, soft on the underbelly, just like a porcupine. 

			
Life had put Flo in charge and made her tough, and, like their mama, she didn’t take no shit from nobody. In Flo’s case though, her skin had become both her shield and her enemy. She didn’t want anybody to know because if they did, she feared they’d scream like Antonella had done that first day. Folks would think she had leprosy. But on the other hand, it kept her safe from men like Papa too. 

			
She almost got engaged to one fella, Johnny Smith, a nephew of Silas’s. He was the only one she ever told about her skin, and they’d joke that they each had skin that stupid white folks didn’t like. 

			
He was different from other men. He was sweet and kind and easy on the eyes. He thought the same about her. But, when he took her home to meet his family, Johnny’s mother made them break it off. 

			
“We Black folk have enough troubles without you marrying a white girl—even if she is as dark as us when she’s been in the sun,” she said. 

			
He protested, but he knew his mother spoke the truth. It was one thing for Helen and Silas to have gotten married because they lived on the ranch and their whole lives were spent there. But Johnny was the first in his family to go to college—two years at Howard University—and his mother wasn’t going to let him jeopardize it for some fool crush he had going on. 

			
“You gonna be a lawyer and that girl probably didn’t even finish high school.” It wasn’t true, but it didn’t matter.

			
No way. No how. No more talk.

			
The awful end to their romance only made Flo harden her heart against hurt even more than it already was. 

			
Nobody is better than you. Nobody.

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 57 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 57 –

			
The Peabody Body

			
Around the USA 

			
1936–1940

			
With relentless practicing in the barn, Clara and Jerry the blacksmith got so good that they entered and won a contest in Trinidad, one in Chicosa, and a big one in Pueblo. They were racking up the cash, but all that traveling around plus the cost of dancing shoes was eating up the profits.

			
Jerry, who wasn’t the brightest bulb in the ceiling, had finally come around to the notion that maybe Clara was just never going to say “yes” and take their partnership from the dancefloor to the marriage bed. Hell, she wouldn’t even kiss him. 

			
“You’re just not smooth enough,” Clara would say. He thought she meant his dancing, but she meant his way with the ladies.

			
But they enjoyed each other’s company, even though Jerry’s father had started accusing him of being a sissy man who liked dancing better than hammering metal all day. But Jerry didn’t let his father discourage him. He’d keep dancing until Clara gave in. Or that was the plan.

			
The biggest dance contest in the state was coming up soon in Denver, and if they won, he was sure he’d win her heart. She wasn’t interested in winning hearts, just cash—like Denver’s seventy-five-dollar cash prize. Clara made up a “dance team” name for the contest, and she and Jerry became “The Ranch Dancers.” 

			
On the day of the contest, they stood in the arena watching the other fifty or so couples practicing on the massive floor. “They don’t stand a chance against us, Clara,” Jerry told her. 

			
“I know. We got this made in the shade,” she answered.

			
Then onto the dance floor in the middle of all the others came Big Al Venturo and his big gal of a partner. She was all red hair, red lips, red dancing pumps, and a red satin dress. 

			
“If she ain’t the reddest thing since apples, I don’t know what is,” Jerry observed.

			
Clara didn’t give two damns about the redhead, but she couldn’t take her eyes off the big man with his thick, black wavy hair and pencil-thin mustache. They called themselves, “Dream Dancers.” When the dancing duo got into position, Clara whispered to Jerry, “Jesus. I think they are going to do the Peabody. He sure is a fine-looking fella, but he’s way too big to be graceful. Nothing to worry about.”

			
Then the Dream Dancers stepped out and way above every other couple on the floor. In fact, people stopped practicing themselves to watch them glide.

			
Clara’s heart sank. The contest came down at the end to the Ranch Dancers versus the Dream Dancers in a tiebreaker. Finally, the Dream Dancers pulled it out and won first place. Clara, carrying her second-place cup, went over to congratulate the winners and decided instead to say, “Big Al, you’re about the most graceful Peabody dancer in the whole wide world.”

			
Big Al was even bigger up close—maybe six-foot-two—but his size didn’t intimidate four-foot-eleven-inch Clara, and neither did his gal, Big Red. Towering over her, Al started to thank Clara, and instead she cut him off and said, “If you ever want to win the national title, look me up. Circle Double Bar A Ranch out near Pueblo.”

			
Jerry scowled and Big Red sneered.

			
A week later, Big Al made his first appearance at the ranch gate where one of the cowpokes directed him to the corral. When Big Al spotted Clara, she and Flo happened to be practicing their trick riding routines for the upcoming rodeo. Clara was standing up on top of a speeding horse going round and round the corral. Right there and then the big man lost his big heart. 

			
What Big Al knew about horses was not what you’d call extensive. He just knew they still pulled the manure wagons in New York City, and if you got too close, they would bite you. But the sight of Clara looking like a rodeo star from Life Magazine made Al wish he owned cowboy boots instead of patent leather dance shoes. 

			
He didn’t know that the last thing Clara wanted was another man in cowboy boots and was just yearning for a fella who owned his own pair of patent leather dance shoes.

			
Flo knew, just knew, as soon as her sister jumped from her horse and began sashaying towards Al that their days as inseparable “twins” were numbered. Annie Oakley was about to lose Calamity Jane to the Peabody. At least temporarily.

			
Flo called after her sister who was butt-swaying herself towards Al, “Hey, Clara. It must be jelly ’cause jam don’t shake like that!” Clara turned around and gave her the high sign.

			
It was love at second sight. Within weeks, Clara and Al dropped their dance partners, teamed up, and never looked back. The way they moved so naturally together on the dance floor was magical, even though Al was a good fifteen inches taller than Clara. They practically became a national sensation and were even photographed for that new Look Magazine. People lined up to see them perform the Peabody at theaters and dance halls around the country. 

			
Clara confessed to Flo in a letter that, yes, she had lost her virginity to Big Al, and that making love was more fun—almost—than doing the Peabody. Flo was shocked. She’d never known a girl who’d lost her virginity before marriage, let alone her own sister, and wondered if she ever would.

			
No, it’ll never happen. I will never show my skin to any man. 

			
But since hope springs eternal, Flo became more vigilant about applying the tar ointment, until one day, young Flip sniffed her and said, “Aunt Flo, you smell like one of them tar roads they got up in Denver.”

			
Mickey yelled that he smelled like half a horse’s ass, and he ran away laughing. Flo tried to laugh it off, too, but in her heart, she knew he was right. That was the end of the tar treatment and the start of even worse psoriasis flareups.

			
A few months later, Clara phoned up the ranch house with big news. Flo answered the telephone, and Clara told her to gather everybody ’round for an announcement. She and Big Al were getting married. They planned a May wedding in Brooklyn. 

			
“Everyone has to come,” she declared. 

			
Somehow Flo had always thought Clara would, sooner or later, tire of dancing, return home, and they’d go back to being Annie and Calamity forever.

			
“Married?” Flo croaked as though she didn’t understand the word.

			
“Yes, married,” Clara gushed. “And you are going to be my maid of honor, so buy yourself a beautiful gown.” 

			
“Gown? Are you never coming home again?” Flo asked, happy for her sister but sad for herself.

			
“Of course we’ll be back,” Clara answered. 

			
Flo knew what “we” meant. It meant that once Clara got hitched, she and her sister would never share time alone together in their own world. One of them was a grown woman now, and that would be the one who was younger than she was.

			
In late May, Flo boarded the train to New York. She wanted to have a few days with Clara before Mickey and Austin came in for the wedding. Before Clara became a wife. 

			
In Flo’s luggage was the beautiful, long-sleeved, green satin gown and dyed-to-match high heeled pumps that the salesman in Denver had called “gen-u-ine Poe Der Swahr, French material.” 

			
She knew she would be a knockout, but she couldn’t help but be worried about other things. Would it be too hot in New York to get away with a gown that covered her limbs? Would Papa be at the wedding? Would she remember her way around Brooklyn, would, would, would…

			
But no, she realized, it really wasn’t any of those things giving her this sense of uneasiness, this unsettling in her soul. It was a kind of knowing without knowing. Same as how, on the night of the wolf, her mama had known without knowing: 

			
Something is about to happen that will change everything everywhere forever.

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 58 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 58 –

			
His Heart Over Flo-eth

			
Brooklyn, New York

			
May 1940

			
The wedding morning broke hot for a day in May. 

			
“Hell,” Clara sighed, sitting miserably in her silk wedding gown in Callie’s living room. “This would be a scorcher even if it was August.” 

			
Flo, sweating even worse even than Clara in her big, hot, satin gown, with a cold rag to her forehead, added, “Hot as Miss Cora-Lee’s on nickel night.” 

			
With their sisters fanning them with fans and newspapers, which did as much good as waving flaming torches at them, Clara tried lifting her arms to dry off the embarrassing wet stains under her armpits.

			
Laura tried wrapping a bunch of netting around her sister’s shoulders to help cover the sweat stains on the silk gown.

			
Flo, whose dressmaker in Denver had added extra-long pointed sleeves to disguise the sores on her hands, thought she might pass out. 

			
“If only Mama was here,” cried Clara. “She’d know what to do.”

			
If Mama were here, I wouldn’t have broken out in these giant skin sores that are itching like a bitch in this heat, Flo thought.

			
Never one to feel sorry for herself, this day, though, was pushing Flo to the limit. Her partner in crime since birth was getting hitched, her mama was long gone, she was covered in psoriasis, she would never be loved by a man, it was nearing 95 degrees, and she was swathed head to toe in a stupid, giant gown. 

			
Big Al’s best man, a mystery fella named Tony, had arrived late last night. He had been at a friend’s father’s wake in upstate New York. Even Big Al was worried he wouldn’t arrive on time.

			
Flo already had a chip on her shoulder against this man because he’d kept everyone on pins and needles about making it to the wedding. The last thing she wanted to do was walk arm-in-arm with him out of the church after the wedding ceremony. 

			
“Some best friend,” she complained to Clara, waving a big newspaper in an attempt to cool off. “Making everybody worry that he wouldn’t show up on time.”

			
“Aww c’mon, Flo,” Clara protested. “He’s the nicest fella on earth. He was at a funeral.”

			
“Sure, sure,” Flo harumphed. 

			
They finally left and rode in a limousine the few blocks to Our Lady of Sorrows where their family and friends were already packing the church waiting for the big event. When the organ sounded, Flo took a deep breath and walked down the aisle, sweat soaking everything: armpits, hands, and even her newly pin-curled-hair had turned into a stringy mess. Clara followed, a beautiful, long veil covering her face and hair and trailing six feet behind her. She was accompanied by her brother Joe, since Mariano had disappeared a few months earlier, which was a blessing as far as everyone was concerned.

			
Flo had grown up a lot since the last time she’d laid eyes on her papa, and she wasn’t sure that she wouldn’t have shot him dead if he had shown up.

			
When Clara’s veil was lifted and she was handed off to Al at the altar, Flo took her sister’s bouquet to hold during the ceremony. As she tried to maneuver both her own huge lily and white roses bouquet and her sister’s even bigger one, she glanced up and got her first look at the best man. He was staring at her sweaty self, but not like she was a clumsy, sweaty mess. He was staring at her the way Clark Gable stared at Vivien Leigh on the movie screen.

			
No wonder, Flo thought. I look like I’m wearing the damned drapes from Tara in this big, hot gown. 

			
She really wanted to say—but of course didn’t, seeing how they were standing at the altar—“Whatcha lookin’ at Shorty?” Tony was hardly what you’d call a tall man.

			
In fact, she thought, He’s more Clara’s size, and Big Al is more my size, although I’d never look twice at either one of ’em. She then gave herself a mind slap for thinking bad thoughts on her sister’s wedding day. But she knew it was because she felt lost and alone.

			
When the ceremony was over and Big Al lifted little Clara clear off her feet for the big kiss, everyone applauded. Flo did, too, and realized how wet her hands were in the extra-long sleeves. 

			
So, when Tony grabbed her hand so they could walk together back up the aisle, she took his arm instead. 

			
“I’m Anthony Stasi,” he said, ducking the rice being tossed their way as they stood on the hot stone steps of the church with the bride and groom. “But everybody calls me Tony.”

			
Flo just looked at him. She was a good two inches taller in her “gen-u-ine Poe Der Swahr, French material” high heels than he was. 

			
Not in the least intimidated by Clara’s taller sister/maid of honor, Tony continued, “And I know your name is Flo. Nice to meet you, Flo.”

			
She gave him a weak smile in return and turned back to look at the newly wedded couple. All she wanted to do was get out of that gown and into a bathtub of ice.

			
The party after the ceremony at the local Italian Sons Hall was what they called “a football wedding.” That means it made the barn weddings at the ranch look like a royal wedding, and if you didn’t duck, you could get hit with a flying prosciutto sandwich.

			
Sandwiches were tossed around tables, whiskey and beer flowed like it was legal—which it was by then—and Mickey, Austin, and Peter provided the music on fiddle, guitar, and piano. Every male relative over the age of sixty got up to sing, everyone danced the tarantella, and even the die-hard Sicilians tried square dancing, although they made it look more like the tarantella than a quadrille. When Tony asked Flo to dance, she refused but invited him later to square dance because she knew he would never in a million years know how to do it. He surprised her by jumping right in and leading her around in a serious do-si-do. 

			
What? she thought.

			
For a few minutes, she forgot how hot she was and started enjoying her sister’s day when the worst thing in the world—at least as far as Flo was concerned—happened. It was the thing Flo dreaded at every family party and avoided like influenza: Peter called her up to sing. Flo always loved to sing, but mostly to herself or at a little family party, but never, ever in public.

			
Against her will, and with the entire party calling her name even though they’d never even heard her sing, she was dragged up to the small stage. She leaned into the microphone and said, “I’m no singer. Really!”

			
Someone in the crowd yelled out, “Compared to Uncle Ralph, you’ll be like Helen O’Connell,” which caused everyone to laugh as she stood up there panicked. More sweat. If possible.

			
She was about to jump off when Tony jumped on stage, said something to the band, and started singing until she laughed out loud and joined in: “You must have been a beautiful baby, ’cause baby lookit you now!”

			
To wild (drunk) applause, Tony lifted Flo down from the stage, and she found herself laughing until tears were running down her face. 

			
“Now that’s more like it,” he said and led her onto the floor in a wild Lindy Hop. He, like his best pal Big Al, was a helluva dancer.

			
When the night was coming to a close, Clara called all the single ladies up to the stage. She turned her back and tossed her bouquet yelling, “Whoever catches it gets married next.”

			
Somehow, the bouquet landed on Flo who instinctively caught it even though she’d tried keeping her arms at her side. What? She looked around like a mad woman for some other gal to give it to.

			
Instead, Tony grabbed her hand and led her to the dance floor for the last dance, a slow ballad. “Well, I guess I’m going to have to marry you now.”

			
“Like hell you will,” she answered, half-charmed, half-annoyed at the nerve of him. 

			
“Exactly!” he answered going for a full-out swirl and dip. “Like hell I will marry you. You’ll see.” 

			
“No. Just no,” she answered on the way up from the deep dip.

			
“So, you’re saying definitely ‘no’?”

			
“Definitely ‘no,’” she answered, joining the crowd heading out the door.

			
He grabbed her hand. “OK! So now we have a place to start negotiating.”

			
She laughed, shook her head, and made her way outside to see the newlyweds off in their open-top car with dozens of cans dragging off the back.

			
The next day, as Flo was packing, with her cotton gloves on to keep some new miracle cream in place, Callie came into the room. It was the room that Flo and Clara had been bunking in together before the wedding.

			
Callie was carrying the biggest vase of flowers she’d ever seen except for the ones piled on hearses at mobster funerals. “What the….”

			
“You’ve got a not-secret admirer,” Callie said. “They’re from Anthony.”

			
“Oh Jesus,” Flo said. “I hope you like them because I’m hopping on the 12:35 outta here.”

			
“Charlie used to bring me flowers,” Callie sighed. “It’s a sign of true love.”

			
“It’s a sign of a man who thinks he can get what he wants,” Flo laughed, shaking her head.

			
“Don’t be so mean,” Callie said. “He’s a man in love.”

			
Flo stopped packing, lifted her sleeves, and showed Callie the fiery red, itchy and scaly patches on her elbows. 

			
“Marriage is not in the cards for me. I’m not you. I don’t want a man, and I sure as hell don’t need a man.”

			
Callie hugged Flo. “I think that man has other plans.”

			
With that, Flo kissed her sister goodbye and headed for the station to board the train with Mickey and the rest of the gang heading back to Home Sweet Home, Colorado. 

			
During the trip, Mickey got up the nerve to ask snippy Flo, “So…you like the best man from the wedding? You sure had fun together—”

			
Flo cut her off, saying, “Non-starter. Not interested.” 

			
Mickey shook her head. It was clear to everyone but Flo, though, that this Tony fella had other plans.

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 59 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 59 –

			
Mickey, Should I Marry?

			
Barbera Ranch, Colorado

			
1941

			
Tony sure did have other plans. 

			
He wrote letters to Flo which she read and tossed, never bothering to answer. Yes, she liked him, thought about him a lot, and even sometimes imagined what it would be like to be married to him. But she knew in her shutdown-heart that it could never be. 

			
Most of the time, especially when she was upset or nervous, her body broke out in huge, scaly patches, some as big as her whole calf. She told herself, It’s best to just stick to my horses, my animals, and those cute-as-a-button, brand-new wolf pups. 

			
She was a rancher’s daughter and planned to live and die as one.

			
As beautiful, funny, and as much of a firecracker as Flo was, she was bound by her secret shame. It wasn’t just her skin that caused her such humiliation; it was also what had caused her condition in the first place. No one could know she had pulled her own father off her tiny sister when she caught him trying to commit an unspeakable act.

			
After several visits to Dr. Neary, Flo felt comfortable enough with him to confess most of the truth. She told him that her father had jumped on her sister—but didn’t say why—and that she fought him off. She told him that the next morning, she had her first breakout. The doc figured out the part she didn’t say and tried to explain that sometimes things like her skin breakouts were “psychological.”

			
“Flo,” he said, as gently as possible, “I think it’s possible you got the condition to keep yourself safe.”

			
“What?” she asked, disgusted that he’d suggest she did it to herself.

			
“Sometimes, when a person, say a young woman, witnesses or is the victim of a horrible attack, their mind can cause them to get a disease.”

			
“Absolutely not,” she snapped at him. Leave it to a man to think it’s the woman’s fault, she thought. “You aren’t a woman, so you don’t understand.”

			
He continued anyway, even more gently. “It’s a protection mechanism, Flo. Your brain might have triggered your immune system as a way to keep what happened to your sister from happening to you.” Then, he took a deep breath and said, “To keep you safe from brutal men who rape women.”

			
She was shocked he used the word “rape,” but he was a straight shooter. She had to give him that. Was it possible?

			
After Johnny, she had promised herself that the world would only see the outside, never what was going on under her work clothes. Those duds, however, which were great for covering up her condition, did exactly what she was trying to avoid. They made her look like a star in a Western movie, and it drove the drovers crazy. 

			
Let them dream, she’d think, even though she refused to allow herself to do the same.

			
In fact, in one of the letters Tony sent her, he even remarked that he pictured her on the ranch and he bet she looked like she belonged in a Western movie. She never answered that letter either. But she thought it was dumb, seeing as how those actresses were fake, and she was real.

			
After a dozen more letters, Tony decided to try phoning her up. If he’d been born with the gene for shame, he would have given up long before, and for sure would have dropped the whole thing when she did answer the phone.

			
“Who do you want to speak to?” she asked as though she hardly knew who he was. 

			
But Tony didn’t have that shame gene, and he did believe that eventually Flo would come around. He could tell she liked him and didn’t care that Big Al and Clara told him he had no chance. 

			
“I know my sister better’n anybody in the world, and if she said ‘no’ you better know she means it. Besides,” she added to soften the blow with a joke, “we’re Sicilian and you’re Calabrese. It would never work.”

			
“So, you mean she’d kill me and still be mad?” he said, and they all laughed like hell, even though what he said probably held a grain of old-time Italian stereotype.

			
Tony ignored Clara’s advice and decided to go to Colorado and do whatever it took to get Flo to admit she liked him back. 

			
He graduated with his certificate in accounting on June 5th, and on June 6th, he was on a train headed to Colorado. 

			
He showed up at the Circle Double Bar A ranch house on an especially hot, dusty day and was greeted at the door by a tiny, crooked lady and her tiny, crooked sister holding a squalling infant. Behind them stood two men: an Indian with braids down his back and a giant white man with one eye.

			
A relentless reader of fiction and history, poor Tony from Brooklyn felt like he’d taken a trip and ended up in some crazy, scary Grimm’s fairy tale. “Whatever you’re selling, we ain’t buyin’,” Antonella said, nearly closing the door on him.

			
He stuck his foot in the door—a trick he’d learned earning his way thru school as a door-to-door Fuller Brush salesman. Yellow Fly and Walnut Jack moved Antonella out of the way and stared Tony down.

			
They didn’t scare him. He’d come all this way, and if he had to fight a savage Indian, a one-eyed giant, and two bent little women to rescue his beloved, that’s what he’d do.

			
Instead, he didn’t have to say a word because Lucia scurried up next to Yellow Fly and said, “Wait a second. Ain’t you that city slicker feller from Brook-a-land who calls up here on the telyphone?” 

			
Tony nodded his head, and the whole bunch moved into the doorway to get a better look. Antonella wiped her hands on her apron, pushed the stray hairs off her forehead, and said more than asked, “You lookin’ for Flo, right? She’s out on the range.”

			
Tony stuck his hand out to introduce himself, which no one took, but Yellow Fly did look him over and nodded, if not with approval, then, well, with something.

			
“I’ll go find her. If she’s of a mind to come, she’ll come. If not, you can have a meal and be on your way. Lucia, give the man some grub.” With that, Yellow Fly walked out the door, mounted a horse, and took off. 

			
An uncomfortable hour later, during which Tony tried to make conversation that nobody wanted to hear, Flo came riding up. She walked in, let the screen door slam behind her, and used her wide brimmed hat to dust off her well-worn chaps. Then she looked at Tony and said, “You sure are persistent.”

			
“The greasy wheel and all that,” he said. No one had any idea what the hell he was talking about.

			
He told her he was staying at the hotel in town. He didn’t tell her that he intended to come by each night when her chores were done to visit. He was always polite but also a big flirt. He had a return ticket and time was running out, so after church on the Sunday before he had to leave, they were down by the creek having a picnic. Flo had a fried chicken leg in her hand when Tony leaned in, took her face in his big hands, looked deep into her eyes, and kissed her. 

			
A shock ran through her whole body, and she thought she’d burst into flames. What just happened?

			
He asked her right then and there to be his wife. She wouldn’t answer him. 

			
She couldn’t marry anyone—not with her skin. How could she? How could he want a woman like that?

			
“I love you, and I want to be with you for the rest of my life. Even with your crazy family,” he laughed. Flo couldn’t help but laugh too.

			
The next day when he left, she didn’t see him off at the train, but he got something better. He had her promise that she’d at least think about it. 

			
She tried to tell him whenever he called about her psoriasis. She said sometimes when it flared up, it looked like leprosy. He said she was being crazy. “You’ve never seen it,” she told him. He said he didn’t care about that, and besides, he added, how could he see anything when she was always covered from head-to-toe even in ninety-degree heat?

			
She hung up on him. This disruption of her spirited, unmarried, free-to-be-herself-life was not something she needed. She had chosen to remain unmarried, so why was she also wishing things could be different? 

			
Sure, he was exciting in ways the cowpokes who had come calling would never be. Tony dreamed big, he wanted to see the world, and he wanted to see the world with her.

			
Do I love him? Does that matter? she’d think over and over.

			
He didn’t stop calling and writing. Sometimes, she’d even get on the phone, and once in a while, when she couldn’t help herself, she’d write him a letter. Nothing flowery, almost like a report of the state of the ranch, the animals, and her work with the veterinarian. 

			
But she couldn’t stop thinking about him and wondering what it would be like to be his wife.

			
One night, overcome with confusion, she fell into Mickey’s lap. “Help me, please,” she cried. “What can I do? He just won’t take ‘no’ for an answer. And I just can’t ever say ‘yes.’”

			
Mickey, always the practical one, picked up her sister’s face, wiped her tears with the cuffs of her rolled up shirt, looked her right in the eyes, and said, “Oh for Christ’s sake, Flo. What if I’da thought ‘Poor woe is me. I love a woman but I gotta get married to a man. I can never have what I want, wah, wah, wah.’ Huh?”

			
Flo had no answer other than, “But that’s different.”

			
“You bet your ass it’s dif’rent,” Mickey said. “Dif’rent from everybody in the whole world practically. Sure dif’rent from anybody we know. A woman living with a woman and a man?”

			
“Well, that’s for sure,” Flo admitted, allowing herself to giggle, wiping her tears.

			
“Did I give a good Goddamned if the whole-a Colorado thought I’d gone to the bad? No,” Mickey reminded her.

			
“But that was your choice. I have no choice,” Flo shot back, pulling up her pants’ leg to show her sister the latest flareup.

			
“Bullshit. He loves all of you, no matter what,” Mickey said, then asked, “Tell me sumthin.’ What if Mama had got to feelin’ sorry for herself with a shack full-a starving, half-froze kids and not a nickel to her name, huh? Instead, she did what was near-on impossible. She made booze, she ran bootleg, she ran a buncha men on a ranch. Us Barbera gals don’t cotton to that ‘I cain’t do’ crap.” She stopped to take a breath and finally asked, “Tell me true, do you love the feller, Flo?” 

			
Flo just looked at her sister, her eyes as wide as supper plates. 

			
“I’ma take that as a yes,” Mickey said. “Just don’t be a Coward Howard.” Then she added about Flo’s persistent suitor, “Me? I sure admire a person who don’t give up no matter what.”

			
And he didn’t. Tony came back to Colorado, and first thing he did was come to the ranch when he knew Flo would be out on the range and asked Austin and Mickey for Flo’s hand.

			
Austin said, “Sure ’nuf. But I don’t know if my sister loves you back. She might turn you down flatter’n a copper’s feet.”

			
Mickey said, “Balderdash! She likes ’im alright. She just too stubborn to admit it.”

			
Tony’s face lit up. “That’s what I think too. I love her like crazy.”

			
Mickey smiled. “Sure, I give you my blessing to take her hand. Hell, take the whole thing, if she’ll have you.” Then she laughed like she was funnier than Buster Keaton. 

			
They told Tony to come for supper that night. 

			
Nothing on that ranch was ever done in private and certainly not something as big as a proposal. So, Austin invited everyone to witness the whole thing because, for starters, a proposal was sure more exciting than repairing fences. And there was going to be cake and wine after. 

			
“Well,” Austin thought for a second and said, “If she says ‘yes,’ that is. No ‘yes,’ no cake.”

			
“Can we still have the wine?” Walter wanted to know.

			
When Flo came in for supper and saw Tony standing there among the crowd, she couldn’t help but smile. 

			
To her shock, Tony went down on one knee as everybody hovered over them. He took out a ring and asked her to be his wife, adding, “I will cherish you every day I live on this earth. Just like I do now.”

			
She didn’t say yes, but she also didn’t say no. When Tony took that for a “yes” and tried to place the ring on her finger, the red, scaly skin on the top of her hand showed. She tried to pull her sleeve down to cover it, but he pushed it back up, kissed the sores, and pushed that ring all the way on. 

			
Then he said something that knocked everybody for a loop. “Nobody’s better than you,” he said and kissed Flo on the mouth.

			
She pulled away shocked. Tony didn’t understand why everybody had gasped and were now holding their breath

			
Finally, Flo threw her arms around Tony, buried her face in his neck so they couldn’t see she was crying, and said, “OK.” 

			
Before she could change her mind, they got married by Father Angeletto, who was really getting on in years. Clara and Big Al came out to stand as matron of honor and best man. A small party for the family and the ranch hands followed. Flo insisted on keeping it on the down-low.

			
After the party, the groom took his bride to the hotel in town. He booked the bridal suite, which was slightly bigger than the not-bridal-suite rooms.

			
When Flo emerged in her cotton head-to-toe nightgown, she slipped into bed and turned the bedside light off. He turned it back on, slowly removed the nightgown from her shoulders, looked at what she’d hidden from the world, and said, “You are perfect.”

			
They made love that night, all night and all the next morning. For the first time since she had first broken out in the psoriasis, Flo didn’t care about her skin.

			
When she went to the sink to wash up, she saw she still had that ruby red lipstick on from the night before. Only this time it didn’t come off.

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 60 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 60 –

			
Days That Will Live in Infamy

			
Brooklyn, New York

			
1941–1942

			
Tony had a job waiting for him in Brooklyn—accountant at the Spinner’s food market. Flo didn’t want to leave Colorado and go back to the bad memories of Brooklyn, but Tony promised her that if, after meeting his family, she still didn’t want to live in Brooklyn, he’d find a job in Pueblo or even Crowley, and move back to the ranch.

			
Flo was nervous in the cab taking them from Grand Central Terminal to his family’s home at 200 Franklin Avenue in Brooklyn. 

			
What would his family think of her? What would she think of them?

			
When they pulled up to his parents’ house, his father, big strapping Domenico, and mother, itty-bitty Domenica, were waiting for them right inside the front gate in what looked to Flo like a mighty big house on a mighty small piece of property.

			
“You didn’t tell me you were rich,” she said, turning from him to the house. 

			
“Not rich. Hard working.”

			
Domenica rushed out and did the right thing: She hugged her new daughter-in-law before hugging her own son. She was tiny like Maria, and her hug was as big as Maria’s had been. Domenico did the same.

			
Before they knew what was happening, out rushed five sisters of all shapes, sizes, and ages from thirteen to early twenties, as well as one tall, handsome brother. 

			
Before Flo got swept up in the hurricane that was the Stasi family, Tony held out his arms and said, “Flo meet Anna, Rosaria—Rosie, Francesca—Fran, Philomena—Philly, and last but not least, Maria.” 

			
“They’re almost the same as my own family’s names,” Flo cried. 

			
“That’s ’cause we are your family,” Philly said, hugging her, which ended in a free-for-all hugging fest. 

			
“Oh, and here’s my brother, Louie,” Tony said, but she didn’t get to greet him as she was rushed along by the sisters and up the stairs into the house.

			
The next few months were easy for Flo. This was the home life she had always wanted. A kind father who took care of his family and a mother who could be a mother without having to protect her family from both wild animals and a wild animal of a husband.

			
Flo called Domenica Mama Tri, not mentioning that Mama Due had been a wolf. 

			
Domenica taught her to cook Calabrese, which included the warning that Sunday gravy needed plenty of sugar, as though anything other than that was a mortal sin. 

			
Domenico was simply “Papa” because her long-lost and never seen again father had never been a father to her, which she realized when she saw what a real papa could be. Strange as it must have seemed to their city neighbors, Flo’s new father-in-law also had a way with animals, same as she had. She even told him about Blue which seemed as normal to him as rain in spring.

			
In fact, he thought it was also normal to have his own small menagerie in Brooklyn. There was a string of ducks that followed him wherever he went, a Chow Chow dog named Jack Dempsey, and a goat that he kept in the tiny backyard called Shoeless Joe. 

			
“And you say I have a weird family?” Flo would laugh.

			
Four months after they were married, Flo missed a period. By the next month it was certain. She was pregnant. Mama Tri and Papa got up and danced around the table as the sisters all came up with names for the baby. Anna was sure it would be a girl and suggested…well, “Anna.” The rest thought it would be a boy and that he should have an all-American name. 

			
“Dominick,” they decided was about as American as apple pie or maybe as Italian American as pizza pie. 

			
Her own sister, cranky Helen, said he should be named Karl Marx, or if it was a girl, Karla Marx. Flo told her to name her own kids after a bunch of communists. “How about changing your Joey’s name to Benito,” she joked. Even Cranky cracked a smile.

			
Tony and Flo—with Flo’s once-again ruby red lips in full bloom—were so happy together that they prayed this baby would be the first of many; they wanted a big family just like the ones they’d grown up in. At night, in bed, on the third floor of the Stasi brownstone where they had their own apartment, Flo would snuggle with Tony after making love and fall asleep wrapped up in his arms. 

			
While falling asleep on the night of December 6, 1941, Flo was so content with her new life, new husband, and their new baby on the way, she thought it couldn’t get better. Then it did. She felt the first flutter of life and put her husband’s hands on her belly. 

			
“Honey,” she said, as they held hands over her fluttery stomach, “We are so blessed. And I am one happy cowgirl.” 

			
Then, the next day, Sunday, December 7, something happened that would again change everything, everywhere forever. 

			
Tony and Flo were having breakfast, and he had her in stitches reading aloud the Sunday funny papers when they heard heavy footsteps rushing up the stairs. 

			
Rosie ripped open the door without knocking and screamed, “Hurry up downstairs! It’s all over the radio! The Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor!” 

			
“What’s Pearl Harbor?” they both asked, confused.

			
“I don’t know, but they bombed it,” Rosie cried pulling them up out of their chairs. They rushed down to where the family was gathered around the radio, listening to the news. Within hours, all the papers had put out special editions describing the horrific attacks. The Japanese had bombed not just the American naval base but several islands in the Pacific and had torpedoed eight US naval ships, sinking four of them. 

			
“Unprovoked!” the papers screamed. The Japanese had wreaked havoc against their American “friends.”

			
The next day, the Stasis, along with millions of other American families, once again gathered around their radios and listened to President Roosevelt declare that December 7, 1941, was a day that would live in infamy. A state of war, he said, now existed between the United States and Japan. 

			
Flo touched her pregnant belly. “Will you be called up?” she asked, every bit as terrified as Domenica, who reached out to grasp the hands of both of her sons.

			
“I guess we all will be,” Tony answered.

			
“Japan,” his mother said. “It’s so far away. Isn’t it?”

			
The youngest sister, Frances, piped up, trying to make the best of a horrible situation. “Thank God Tony has an accounting certificate. If they call you, and they probably won’t what with Flo being pregnant and all, they’d only put you in an Army office doing numbers.”

			
Anna added, “And Louie’s just a teenager. He’s too young.”

			
Four days later, on December 11, the US declared war against Italy and Germany after they declared war on the US.

			
On December 31, Flo’s birthday eve, Anthony J. Stasi, first generation Italian American, whose family had immigrated to America from Italy for a better life, received notice that he had been selected “for training and service in the United States Army Air Corps.” 

			
He was ordered to report to Fort Hamilton in five days.

			
“Ma mio figlio! L’Italia è la nostra patria,” Domenico said, panicked. Questo Corpo Aereo lancerà bombe sulla nostra stessa gente?” He wanted to know if Tony would fight against his own people in Italy, if the Air Corps would drop bombs on their homeland, Italy.

			
“Papa, please. America is our homeland now, not Italy. You ran from Italy, remember? And I will do whatever my country asks me to do. And if they send me to Italy, well—” 

			
Louie stepped in. “Pops,” he said using the American hep cat expression, “that Mussolini fella is a rotten dictator. I’ll volunteer to kill him myself,” he said, pretending to shoot a machine gun.

			
Domenico didn’t agree. “He was a good man. He made the trains run on time.” 

			
“Train schedules! That’s a great reason for him to keep all the Italians down,” Tony said, shaking his head.

			
“So, it be gooder to bomb-fight them?” Domenico asked, using his best English. 

			
As upset as he was that his sons would go to war, Domenico was doubly disturbed that his sons might end up fighting and killing their own kin in Italy.

			
Domenica put her arms around her boys, weeping, and asked in Italian. “They can’t take two sons from one family, can they?”

			
Four days later, Louie, underage, walked to the local recruiting office and voluntarily joined the Army with an altered birth certificate.

			
The Stasi boys were quick to become 110 percent American soldiers, anxious to get into the action—not knowing, of course, what the action would really be like.

			
Tony sent letters from basic training when he could, writing that it was tougher than he expected. “I never knew I could run, jump, climb, and do drills for twelve hours without dying,” he kidded. “But wait until you see my new muscles. I’ve got muscles on top of muscles.”

			
He was right. Three months later, Tony walked through the gate at 200 Franklin Avenue for his short leave before shipping out. He was handsome in his US Army Air Corps uniform with, yes, new muscles on top of muscles. 

			
Tony was thrilled with what Flo had grown too—a big baby belly. They spent what little time they had alone but shared supper every night with his parents and sisters. 

			
He had, he boasted, scored so high on his exams that he was chosen for flight school. 

			
“Does that mean you’ll be in school for most of the war?” his sister Philly asked, hoping against hope.

			
Tony ruffled her upswept hairdo and said, “No, it means I’ll be flying in a bomber.”

			
All the joking stopped, and silence took over. 

			
“You’ll be flying a fighter plane?” Flo asked, panicked.

			
“Well, I don’t know if I’ll be a pilot or not, but for sure I will be flying in one.”

			
Flo gasped and held her belly, Domenica asked what it all meant, and the sisters broke out crying, all except for his oldest sister, Maria. Married to an older man with two young sons of her own, she hugged Tony and said, “We’re proud of you, Tone. Really proud of you.”

			
Domenico lit his pipe and just stared, too afraid to say anything for fear of breaking down. They all knew Tony may never return. There was a very good chance he would be shot down as he was dropping bombs on the land of his ancestors—the foreign, yet not foreign country where both he and Flo still had aunts, uncles, and little cousins they’d never met.

			
On the day he was set to leave, Tony and Flo told the family that he wanted his wife to see him off at the station alone. The sisters became hysterical at the very thought of it, but their mama told them it was only right for Flo to have this time alone with her husband. 

			
Saying goodbye to his parents and sisters was tough, knowing he may never see them again, but leaving his pregnant wife was even harder. What if he died in combat and never met his child? Flo would be left a widow with a baby. What would happen to them?

			
She knew what he was thinking and said, “You’ll be safe. I know it. I promise you.”

			
As Flo and Tony approached Grand Central Terminal—the place that had changed Flo’s life in so many ways so many times—she steeled herself against the biggest change of all. 

			
This time the station was in a different kind of chaos with thousands of soldiers, sailors, and their families rushing every which way, crying, saying goodbye, looking for the tracks where their troop trains were boarding.

			
They found the right track and Tony kissed Flo like he’d never kiss her again. He hefted his duffle bag onto his shoulder and climbed onto his assigned packed-to-the-rafters troop train to the raucous sounds of laughter, joking, and singing. Young men going off to adventure in foreign lands who were still green enough to believe they were invincible, that the USA would defeat “the Gerrys,” “the Japs,” and “the Eye-ties” in a month.

			
As he boarded, Tony found an open window so he could lean out and wave to Flo on the platform. 

			
As the train pulled out, she ran alongside it, holding her belly. He called out “Nobody’s better than you. Nobody!” hoping she heard him.

			
“I’ll see you real soon! I love you!” she called back, running until there was no more platform. 

			
Just like Blue followed my train once upon a time, she thought, crying until she could hardly see. 

			
Then she caught her breath. Were the tears blurring her vision? 

			
Or was she really there? 

			
On the platform standing in front of Flo of the ruby lips, stood a blue-eyed wolf.

			
Ooowwooo. 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

EPILOGUE
		

	
	
		

			
EPILOGUE

			
All-American Family

			
Anthony J. Stasi fought the Nazis in Italy and France in the US Army Air Corps, (US Air Force). He crewed on a long-range, B24 aircraft nicknamed “Strictly Social” in the invasion of Anzio, Italy, as well as on a P47D Thunderbolt single-seat fighter known as “Stinky” in the invasion of Utah Beach, Normandy, France.

			
When the war ended, he returned home to his wife, Flo, to meet his son, four-year old Dominick Stasi for the first time. 

			
The Barbera Magic Continues

			
After graduating cum laude from Wellesley College, Linda’s daughter, Jessica Stasi Rovello’s first job was on a film shoot in Brooklyn where she was drawn to a tiny restaurant. Becoming friendly with the owner, she asked about renting the apartment upstairs. The address? 151 Union Street, Red Hook, Brooklyn, New York. The restaurant? Ferdinando’s Focacceria. The apartment? The same one in which her great grandmother had lived and died. Two families united one hundred years later.

			
Dominick Stasi came of age, and he, too, joined the US Air Force, became a nationally recognized engineer known for his innovations in network and cable TV, including the satellites that launches MTV onto the air.

			
Flo and Tony had one more child, Linda Stasi, columnist, TV host, novelist, and a scrapper in the mode of her mother.  

			
Flo’s Grandchildren

			
Jessica Stasi Rovello, Linda’s daughter, became one of the first and only female CEOs of a major digital games company—Arkadium. She was named to Crains NY 40 Under 40 and was on the cover of INC. Magazine as the CEO of the “Best Workplace in America.” She is now CEO of @Woods. 

			
Christopher Stasi, Dominick’s son, became a nationally honored engineer who founded and is CEO of several tech and management companies, winning national praise and awards for his innovations.

			
Jackie Stasi, Dominick’s daughter, is a nationally known and honored media marketing expert who has won “Agency Person of the Year,” as well as Adweek’s coveted Media Plan of the Year.

			
Flo’s Great Grandchildren

			
Marco Rovello, Jessica’s teenage son, at just seventeen, has two works of art on exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in NYC. He is attending the prestigious Rhode Island School of Design.  

			
Dean Stasi Rovello is in high school and is following in his grandmother’s footsteps as a journalist and writer.  He covers the stories of committed high school athletes on his website and Instagram @HSCommitted.  

			
Reed Rovello is a middle schooler who loves basketball and living in Brooklyn, just a few blocks from his ancestors.

			
Olivia Stasi, Christopher’s daughter, is a kindergartener who lives in Hermosa Beach, California and loves ice skating, music, and playing at the beach.

			
Barbera’s Children and Grandchildren Whose Military Service Has Been Honored

			
Frank Candiano Jr., Laura’s son, a Lieutenant Colonel in the US Army, was the first US Army officer to lead troops into and secure Ground Zero on 9/11, where they remained at the smoking pit for months.

			
Mario “Bobby” Candiano, Frank’s brother, served with honor in Vietnam and died at the age of twenty-eight from exposure to Agent Orange, leaving a wife and two toddlers behind.

			
John Venturo, Clara’s grandson, became a decorated helicopter pilot serving in Desert Storm as well as a decorated police officer and pilot who is, at the time of this writing, running for US Congress.

			
Engraving on Florence Stasi’s Gravestone

			
1916–2001

			
Nobody’s Better Than You

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

Acknowledgments
		

	
	
		

			
Acknowledgments

			
Thank you forever to my late mom, Florence Barbera Stasi and her siblings who loved me like crazy even though I was a brat: My Godmother Aunt Clara, Aunt Carrie, Uncle Pete, Aunt Angie, Aunt Mary, Aunt Laura, Aunt Helen, Uncle Austin, and Uncle Joe. 

			
A huge, big thanks to my agent Liza Fleissig, of the Liza Royce Associates literary agency who never stopped advocating tenaciously for this book despite pushbacks from those who just didn’t want this true and yet untold story of the other Sicilian immigration story to be made public. Thank you from the bottom of my heart. You did it!

			
To all the great folks at Regalo Press: Publisher Gretchen Young who loved and understood this book right off and made me an offer I couldn’t—and never wanted to—refuse. Thank you for getting it and getting me. Ditto to Post Hill Press Publisher Anthony Ziccardi, my editor Adriana Senior, and Managing Editor Caitlin Burdette who worked incredibly hard to make this book exactly as it should be and exactly as I dreamed it could be. Xxoo

			
To my husband, Sid Davidoff for his advice, suggestions, and patience and to my daughter Jessica Rovello for coming up with so many great ideas that helped me get through when I was ready to “absquatulate” as the cowpokes used to say. (Look it up!)

			
Thank you to the gorgeous Marie Yervasi, daughter of Peter, the last living kickass Barbera gal, who helped me in so many ways that I can’t begin to count them. Marie—you are the best and I love you.

			
Thank you to all my cousins for allowing me to use their parents’ and grandparents’ names to imagine and reimagine what it was like to be them at the turn of the century: theirs loves, their losses, and their bravery.

			
Grazie mille to my writing pals from the Art Workshop International which meets each summer in Assisi, Italy. This is where I have taken two weeks a year to formulate and begin all my novels. I especially need to thank my 2023 writing group led by the great bestselling author, SJ Rozan, my mentor and my friend who has guided me through three novels there, as well as Dr. Mia Talmor, Nancy Ennis, and Cynthia Fagen—great writers all. We all met with SJ every morning in that glorious space to write, critique, and write some more. Oh, and to eat great meals and drink too much wine.

			
Many many thanks to my three pals, Damien Miano, Rosemary Rogers, and Antonia Ka for reading, re-reading, and for always being ready, willing, and able to offer invaluable advice and suggestions, which helped turn this book into a living, breathing work. Xo.

			
Grazzi Assai to the wonderful Roberto Scarcella Perino of NYU and music fame for translating both English and standard Italian into Sicilian—and making sure even that was accurate for the time period. You are a genius, a terrific person, a gentleman and scholar (as they say). 

			
Thank you to my long lost cousin, Sam Carlino, the wondrous BBQ king of San Jose, California, for all his friendship and help. His fantastic book Colorado’s Carlino Brothers, a history of his family, knocked my socks off. His great book is a must read for every fan of The Godfather because I found his real life descendants, their family name, as well as events and the horrific murders they experienced (which were reported in newspapers of the time), so similar to the names and events in Mario Puzo’s classic that it makes me wonder if they may even have been his inspiration. 

			
Our connected families sure were mine!

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 2 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 2 –

			
Witch’s Brew

			
Greenhorn Mountain, Colorado

			
January 1, 1916 

			
Mariano made his way back inside, grumbling about his bloody leg. Maria watched him carefully as she tried to get Firenze to nurse with whatever her starving body could produce. Her husband was cogitating over this development, sure enough, but he was still looking mean and surly as a rattler.

			
Why couldn’t it be a boy—a normal kid? Mariano thought. He could put a boy to work by four or five years old. He needed sons more than ever now that they were living wild. 

			
Girls were just a man’s burden. They had to be married off, sold off, or carried off as soon as they reached puberty so they could produce sons for some other poor bastard. And this one? This unclean thing, this strega that his wife had birthed? Who’d ever marry that? 

			
More bad luck. His whole life had been cursed since he’d come to this God-forsaken country. Now he was a man running from the law and hiding out like un fallimento—a failure. With another daughter. One that had already been visited by the devil. 

			
Killing la picciridda might even be the solution to the curse hanging over his head. Kill the witch, kill the curse. 

			
Maria was scared. She knew what Mariano was thinking. She’d lived with him too long to not know. So, she prayed as hard as she had ever prayed to her Lord Jesus. She begged Jesus for a miracle to save them, a miracle to protect her children not just from the wolf, or the grinding poverty, but from her husband. She prayed for the Lord to help Mariano find God again. He had once believed in Him. He hadn’t always been a beast. 

			
She hugged Firenze closer. 

			
Then, just like that, after he finished off his jug of homemade brew, Mariano did find God. Seems God had been staring at him all along, right there at the bottom of his now empty jug.

			
It wasn’t exactly what you’d call a “coming to Jesus” moment though. It was more like a “demon rum” moment. 

			
The flash of inspiration came to him from a recent bit of news. His goombah, Gaetano Passentino, had recently met him at a secret spot partway up the mountain to bring the family a hunk of Parmigiano, half a sopressat’, some flour, and the latest rumors from down below. Gaetano wasn’t much of a talker, but that day he talked to Mariano—a lot. He claimed the miners had told him that on January 1, the Colorado governor was going to ban liquor in the whole damned state. Gaetano swore on his mother’s life that it was true. He even pulled out a news article to show Mariano. But since neither of them could read, it didn’t matter anyhow. 

			
“Nobody in America can drink alcohol after the new year?” Mariano asked, shocked.

			
“No, no,” Gaetano answered. “Just in Colorado. A man could go to another state to drink,” but nobody they knew could afford to do that, anyway. They couldn’t even leave town. 

			
What? How could men live without wine, without beer, without whiskey? 

			
Gaetano claimed that Protestant do-gooders, who had the right to vote, had voted to ban liquor in the whole state. 

			
Mariano began to seriously contemplate what this meant. So now a fella couldn’t knock back a few in public anymore? Couldn’t stop by Mrs. John Bianchi’s saloon ever again on a Saturday night, get drunk, and play Scopa until he was out of money or out on his ass? 

			
Trying to keep a man from his drink was about as dumb as trying to keep a man from the puttanas hanging around saloon tables willing to relieve a miner, cowhand, or drifter of his money in exchange for a good time upstairs. A law like that could make him a rich man because if there was one thing he knew, it was how to make good brew. His wine and hooch had been in such demand down at the mines—before the murders—that he always had a dollar or two in his pocket.

			
Ban liquor? Any dang fool knew that to live, a man needs cooch and hooch. 

			
Mariano suddenly whooped with joy, which scared the bejesus out of the kids, who were already shaking in their boots. If they had any boots to shake in, that is. 

			
The idea came to him as easily as the forbidden apple had come to Eve. Except in this case, the forbidden fruit was…sugar beet. 

			
All Italian peasants knew that sugar beets were so easily turned into booze it was almost a sin. And now it actually was. Or illegal at least. The Sicilians called this homemade brew “Sugar Moon,” and they’d been making it as long as anybody could remember. 

			
Now that it was officially illegal to buy, make, move, or sell liquor in that cursed state of Colorado, any man with knowledge of making Sugar Moon or vino could make a fortune. Mariano had that knowledge. He only needed a cart. And a mule. 

			
Those rich ’Merigaans would be sorry they made booze illegal. These fat-cats had worked the immigrants and brown folk in the coal mines until they were dead or crippled, and now they’d gone and taken away the one thing that helped those poor working stiffs forget their miserable existences: Booze. 

			
No matter how bad things got, they always had their Zuccuru Luna, their Sugar Moon. They had cooked up that brew in the old country, and the Siggies (Sicilians) had been cooking it up here in the New World since settling in this hellish place, this United States of America. This Wild West. That was the only skill most of them had left that was of any use: growing grapes and beets and turning them into potent-as-hell wine and moonshine.

			
For Crissakes, knowing how to make wine and Zuccuru Luna was as much a part of Mariano and Maria’s lives as their dark skin, black eyes, and curly hair. 

			
Mariano began to concoct a plan, completely unconcerned with the family chaos swirling around the shack. Goddamn! Why couldn’t he supply the hooch and let Mrs. Bianchi supply the cooch? He’d sell his vino and ‘shine, not just to the miners, but to the prominent big bugs who ran the mines. He’d charge those rich sumnabitches double. It was the Siggie form of enterprise. He didn’t need an education to grow, make, and sell. He couldn’t read or write in any language, but he sure could count. 

			
Mariano had forgotten all about the wolf, the family’s fright, their plight, even his bleeding leg. Instead, he began planning his escape from hell via the Sugar Moon Express. 

			
His bootleg brew would make those brutal mine managers, the pezzu ‘i novanta—big shots—so dependent on him that they’d forget he was a wanted man on the run, forget that they considered Sicilians an inferior race of filthy, impoverished, degenerate criminals. 

			
He’d be the big man. Those pigs with their fine white houses and their respectable womenfolk who dressed in silks and had real ribbons in their hair and wore fancy button shoes—they would need him for the bootleg booze they would want so bad. 

			
He began to imagine making so much money bootlegging to the mining camp’s managers and the miners themselves that he’d become an important man, omu di panza, a “man of the belly” as they said in the old country. He’d buy himself a pair of fancy shoes, a suit, maybe even a silk hat.

			
No more living off the land, hoping to bag an elk or a big buck with just a six-shooter, which was about as likely as lassoing an eagle in flight. 

			
All this hiding out without a pot to piss in? That was about to be over—but not forgotten. Never forgotten. 

			
Finally, he’d have respect. Rispettu. 

			
As his plan was coming together in his fevered brain, baby Firenze started howling again. He turned to look at her. Maybe he wouldn’t kill her—not just yet anyway. Maybe the witch cast a spell and that’s how he came to this important new thinking. 

			
If she was really una mavara, (and how could she not be—this child who could summon the wolves), maybe he could turn it to his advantage. When she got old enough, he could force her to use her powers against his enemies. He’d make her use u malocchiu—the evil eye—on anyone who got in his way. And if she refused, well…. 

			
Since living wild, Mariano came to know that brute strength and brutality were the only way a man could control anything—or everything—in a brutal country. It had always worked with the others, including his family. 

			
He didn’t know it yet, but such brutality would never work with this one—the baby that howled with ruby lips.

			
Firenze was the fifteenth of sixteen children that pint-sized Maria Ragusa La Barbera would conceive in both the old country and the new world. Since marrying Mariano, Maria had either been pregnant, nursing, or mourning nearly every day of her life. She had lost almost as many babies as had survived, Yet, each infant she lost was as painful and unbearable as the ones she’d lost before. And each one who’d lived brought her as much joy—even if most of them had been girls. 

			
Girls were a terrible disappointment to her husband, and he took each one out on her. Though she’d given him three boys, the last four had been girls. Mariano would say in disgust that she just wasn’t built for boys.

			
But Maria knew that she had been born to breed, especially this one, this new magical wild child, the one her husband didn’t want. 

			
The one he already feared.

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 3 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 3 –

			
Big Love in a Small World 

			
Lucca Sicula, Sicily

			
1905 

			
Mariano had forgotten that he hadn’t been born to bully and tyrannize. In fact, before coming to this new country where everything had gone so badly and become so deadly, he’d been the sort of man that women either wanted for themselves or for their daughters. 

			
By the time he reached the age of thirty, in fact, Mariano had made it kind of big in a very small-town way. He was a tall, powerfully built, but slender man—not a showstopper but handsome enough. More importantly, he commanded respect. He had managed to acquire enough land just south of Lucca Sicula in Sicily to start his own small vineyard. They said he had a way with the grape. 

			
To support his budding enterprise, he also raised goats and chickens. 

			
Odd that he didn’t have a wife, perhaps, but if anybody dared to ask, he’d just say he never had time for a family. But fate was about to change all that. One day, he walked into the general store in Lucca Sicula and stopped dead when he laid eyes on the proprietor’s fourteen-year-old daughter, Maria. He opened his mouth to speak, but all that came out was, “Matri e Sarvaturi!”—Mother and Savior! 

			
Mariano was a goner. He knew right off that this was the woman—or girl anyway—that he’d waited for his whole life. 

			
Mariano thought Maria was about the prettiest thing he’d ever seen—a tiny girl with wide, dark eyes and long black curls that went clear down her back. She smiled at him when he handed her the money for his goods. Her smile and those tiny feet—the only things peeking out from under her long cotton dress—put him into a tizzy. Love, lust…whatever it was, he had to have her. 

			
But Mariano didn’t exactly come a-courtin’, as they say. That same day, he simply approached her father, Pietro, as he was loading goods onto a customer’s wagon. Mariano picked up a fifty-pound bag of flour like it was a toy, lifted it into her wagon, and tipped his hat to the customer as she drove off. Then he turned to Pietro and said he wanted to marry his daughter. Mariano told Pietro he owned a small farm with goats and planned to buy more land. He said he would take care of “the girl,” since he didn’t yet even know her name. 

			
Neither Maria’s mother, Beatrice, nor young Maria had a say in the matter. Beatrice wrung her hands, put her arms around Maria, and cried, “No, pi favuri Petru! Idda sulu na picciridda, iè!”—No! Please! She’s just a girl!

			
But the thing is, as soon as Mariano La Barbera jumped off his horse, Maria felt a strange fire inside. So, she took her mother’s hand and told her it was alright, and that Papa knew best. Her mother was shocked. She dragged the screaming Maria back inside the store by her ear. 

			
But it was near a done deal. Maria had been preparing for this day all her young life, and her dowry included a trunkful of pillowcases and sheets, which she and her mama had been embroidering since she was a little girl—a little girl dreaming of the handsome man who would one day ask for her hand and sweep her away. 

			
Mariano, the sort-of handsome man who asked for her hand didn’t exactly sweep her away; he just sort of took her away after a week of negotiating with Pietro. Her mother wept; Maria smiled. 

			
But the deal almost fell apart. Through a friend, Pietro found out one small detail that Mariano had forgotten to mention: his wife. 

			
When confronted, Mariano came clean—or so he claimed. He told Pietro she had died and hung his head. That was good enough for Pietro and for Maria. Dead was dead. 

			
A month later, they were married with the blessing of Padre Paolo, who didn’t question whether Mariano’s first wife was really dead or not. Everyone they knew—and some they didn’t—turned out for the festivities. 

			
Big pots of pasta were served along with roasted meats prepared by all the ladies. Pietro’s homemade vino flowed, and music by Mariano’s brothers filled the town square. 

			
As expected, Pietro beamed. Beatrice wept some more. Mariano’s father, Rafaelo, got stinking drunk, and Mariano’s mother, Giulia, kept her arms folded across her big bosom and scowled. 

			
Maria? She was every inch the blushing bride in a white dress and hand-embroidered veil covering first her face, then flowing down her back after she became a wife. She savored every second of the biggest day of her life. Everyone danced in the streets, but even the best dancers stopped to watch when Mariano took tiny Maria in his big, strong arms and twirled her around. She followed his every step as though she’d danced with a partner all her life, when in fact, he was the first man she’d ever danced with other than her father, whose shoes she would stand on as a little girl so she could follow his steps. Maria gazed up at Mariano, and he stared down at her, their lust so clear that people stood with their mouths open. 

			
It was not just unusual for people to marry for love back then/back there, but when love mixed with lust, there was no stopping it. 

			
This was a girl who was fit and ready to fulfill her destiny as lover, breeder, mother, and helpmate to her husband. 

			
Everyone agreed: this was what you call a love match. Maria burned for Mariano like he did for her. Their lovemaking was epic—and loud—so they became the talk of the village. That was OK. They were married. She wasn’t the least embarrassed, even though they were, as custom dictated, living with his parents. After a few months, little Maria was proudly sporting a baby belly and a sly smile. 

			
She didn’t care that her mother-in-law wagged her finger in Maria’s face and said that only filthy girls and puttani engaged in marital relations when they were expecting. That night the couple made louder love than ever. 

			
Mariano was so in love with his bride that he picked wildflowers for her every day and fresh vegetables during harvest and brought it all home to her like a child bringing an apple to his teacher. He tended his vineyard with a whole new vigor. He was now a family man.

			
Mariano, unlike most Sicilian men, was not middatu a so matri—a mama’s boy. He stood up for Maria to his mother whenever the older woman tried to talk trash to her or about her. They walked hand-in-hand everywhere and exchanged kisses during their evening passiata through the tiny town. Mariano’s friends and even his brothers teased that he’d become pussidutu—possessed. Mariano couldn’t even look at Maria without taking her face in his hands and kissing it all over while proclaiming, “Bedda!”—beauty. 

			
Maria counted herself very lucky to have been found by such a man. Such a lover. Such a husband. 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

– 4 –
		

	
	
		

			
– 4 –

			
Promises 

			
Lucca Sicula, Sicily 

			
1909 

			
So, how in the hell did the Barbera family end up like this, with Maria married to a mean, ornery varmint if ever there was one? Why did they leave the only village and home they and their ancestors had ever known? And what had turned, if not a God-fearing man, at least a good, loving man into one so bitter and angry? 

			
Maria had already birthed three babies—including a set of twins—when the hard times hit Sicily. Bandits roamed, drought was threatening, work was drying up faster than the land, taxes were crushing, and a long spell of bad weather had hurt not just their village of Lucca Sicula but also the whole province of Agrigento. Still, Mariano refused to give up, eking out what he could from the land. The vines withered and died no matter how he tried. Despite this, he still brought his Maria what few flowers he could find that were left in the field. He’d help her on and off with her shoes and even did the unthinkable: He helped her care for the babies as they came along. 

			
Then in December of 1908, bad became unbearable, and the world they knew came to an end. First, Mount Etna erupted for one whole day and night, which caused small, local earthquakes. Those small quakes caused a whole lot of shaking but not much damage. Even so, it was terrifying. 

			
A few days after that—Christmas week in fact—the earth stopped teasing and shook hard across the whole of Southern Italy. It was the biggest quake to ever hit Europe. It was so bad that the port cities of Messina and Reggio di Calabria were almost completely toppled, killing thousands upon thousands.

			
Then, even though it couldn’t get worse, it did. 

			
Ten minutes after the quake, the sea started to recede and sucked itself back in so far it was hard to tell where it was. Where did the sea go? Everyone was scared as hell. And rightfully so.

			
It didn’t take long to find out. It began with a roar so mighty it could have come from the mouth of God himself. And before anybody could run, the sea rushed back covering the land like Noah’s flood itself. Three forty-foot tidal waves hit one after the other, drowning everything and everyone. Nearly 100,000 souls perished and those that did survive were left starving and homeless. 

			
The people who had relatives in the mountains and inland began heading to towns like Maria and Mariano’s village, seeking shelter with family. The starving survivors who made their way there brought the barely-hanging-on towns to the breaking point. Babies died, mothers and fathers roamed the tiny village streets begging for scraps. Maria’s parents’ store was out of food—even the hundreds of jars of peaches they had canned were sold or stolen—and they had to close. Maria went to help close up the store, and she and Beatrice hung onto each other and cried. Gone. Everything they’d worked for was gone, dried up like the dead earth under their feet. 

			
It was as though the wrath of the Almighty had come down to punish Sicily. Mariano’s family survived on sugar beets and whatever olives and grapes hadn’t dried up and died before they came to full fruit. They had one goat left, and even it wasn’t doing too good. Kill it for meat or keep it for whatever milk and cheese it could produce? How could they continue? 

			
The only way out was out. 

			
Mariano had never wanted to go to America; he had made terrible fun of the young men who had left Sicily to go to the New World thousands of miles away. Paradise was here—right here—in Sicily. Until it wasn’t. 

			
Whenever he could, Mariano hired out as a day laborer in the farms that were still hanging on and got some work cutting down trees for a company that shipped them to Naples, but that only paid what amounted to twenty-five centesimi for a twelve-hour day. It wasn’t even enough to buy food for one person. He would be gone looking for work for weeks at a time, leaving Maria and the children with his parents, who didn’t want them. 

			
There was very little work and too many men willing to work for even less than those measly wages. When Mariano would come home to Maria and the little ones with little or nothing, Maria—who was very understanding for lady so young—would tell him, “Non è colpa soi. A scarsizza fa lu prezzu.”—It’s not your fault. Scarcity sets the price. 

			
In his head, Mariano knew her words to be true, but his heart said something different. His family missed meals. While Maria didn’t complain, his mother did. She never tired of reminding Maria that if they weren’t burdened with her and her children, her own belly would be full. Maria only smiled and skipped meals, feeding her children as little as it took to keep them alive. 

			
When Mariano was gone, he couldn’t know what was happening back home, but he knew his mother well enough to know she wasn’t making Maria’s life pleasant. He worried that Maria felt marrying him had been a mistake. She was a beauty and could have done better—not living on scraps in her husband’s father’s house. 

			
A rich man could have come along and seen that beautiful young girl at her parent’s store. She could have become the wife of a wealthy man living in a big house in Roma. 

			
Maria didn’t think that way, though. To her, Mariano was the greatest gift God could have ever given her. He was kind, he was gentle with her and, well, he set her on fire. No life, she believed, was without pain—often great pain—but she at least she had a man who would always be her rock. Until he wasn’t.

			
Even so, Mariano felt ashamed—as though the natural disasters that brought them so low had been his fault. A man who couldn’t feed his family wasn’t a man. He was more helpless than a woman. Mariano was un nu fallimentu—a failure in the midst of greater failure. 

			
So, the next time the traveling padrone—Enzio Saicchitano—came to their village, Mariano and his brother Arcangelo listened to what he had to say. Saicchitano was what they called a middleman, and it was his job to travel to the poorest villages looking for strong Sicilian bucks who were broke and desperate for a break. He’d offer the biggest and strongest of them free passage and well-paying jobs in the land of opportunity.

			
On this day he stood in Lucca Sicula’s piazza, resplendent in a silk derby hat and cutaway jacket, and called for the men to gather ’round. 

			
When he had a bit of a crowd, he began his pitch. “The land is dried up,” Saicchitano said, sweeping his arms all around. “There is no work for you men.”

			
“But we—my brother Ange and me—hear that there is work in Naples rebuilding the port. We plan to go there,” Mariano said, turning around to go back home. 

			
“Yes, you could do that,” the padrone answered, grabbing both of the brothers’ attention. “Travel eight hundred kilometers and leave your wife and family to find work. If there is any.”

			
The brothers turned back around. It couldn’t hurt to just listen to the man, could it? “Thousands of desperate men are already there begging for work. It’s like slave work.” He took a pause to gauge the mood of his audience. He nodded his head and continued. “Or—or—if you are wise and brave enough, you could make a new life. In America. It’s a country where men are free. You would be free from this cursed place and its crooked government.” He spat in disgust. 

			
Mariano and Ange exchanged looks. 

			
“Do you know two million Italians have already left and gone to America?” the padrone continued. “They all found the good life in a good country. Plenty of work, and better, plenty of land.”

			
“Maybe that is so, but we can’t leave our home,” Ange shot back. “You want us to make a home in America? We know nothing there.” 

			
The padrone answered with a common phrase, using Sicilian to show he was one of them—but a rich version now: “Casa quantu stai e tirrinu quantu viri.”—Home for as long as you need to be, and land as far as the eye can see. 

			
Mariano put his fingers together in a pinecone hand gesture, shook them at the padrone, and answered with a saying of his own: “Asini, donni e sciccariaddunun t’alluntanari di li toi.”—Don’t go far away from your donkeys, women, and oxen.

			
The game was on.

			
“No. No,” Saicchitano protested with a twinkle in his eye, “Sulu a fimmina e a iaddinasi perdi si troppu cammina.”—Only women and hens get lost if they wander too far. 

			
Ange jumped in, shaking his finger at them both and grinning. “Tra il dire e il fare c’è di mezzo il mare.”—An ocean lies between what is said and what is done.

			
The old men got up from their chairs around the dried-up stone fountain where they gathered every day, to watch the show. This was going to be good. 

			
Mariano, playing to the crowd, nodded his head and added, “Cu lassa a vecchia pa nova sapi chiddu chi lassa ma un sapi chiddu ca trova.”—He who leaves the old road for the new, knows what he leaves, but he doesn’t know what he will find.

			
The padrone shot back, “Tutti i nodi vengono al pettine.”—All tangles come to the comb. In other words, if he wasn’t honest, it would have come out already. 

			
Fat Lorenzo, the village skeptic, stuck his very large head into the crowd and bellowed, “Quello ha gli ami da pesca in tasca.”—That one has fishhooks in his pocket. 

			
The whole crowd, including the padrone roared with laughter, so Fat Lorenzo, loving the attention, added, “In bocca al lupo”—In the mouth of the wolf. 

			
The padrone again laughed but, realizing the whole thing was running off the rails, got serious, put his arms around the strapping La Barbera brothers, and said with all sincerity, “Amici e vaddati.” He meant it was good that their friends were looking out for them, but he added, “Trust me. I won’t steer you wrong.” 

			
Ange laughed, did a little dance, and spat out, “Scecchi Minchia! Fidari è bonu, nun fidari è megghiu.”—Donkey dick. Trusting is good. Not trusting is better. 

			
The padrone, understanding that the contest wasn’t over until the brothers said it was over, said, “Amici miei. A mali estremi, estremi rimedi.”—My friends. Desperate times call for desperate measures. 

			
That could not be denied. Even the crowd stopped most of its caterwauling. 

			
The padrone had come up with the truest, saddest, toughest phrase of the day, and he had just won them over. 

			
As Fat Lorenzo had predicted, as soon as Saicchitano knew he’d hooked them, he reeled them in like fish. “I arrange everything,” he said, “As soon as you arrive in America, I will be there to personally escort you to the place where jobs will be waiting for you. You will never be on your own or lost.” 

			
“What kind of jobs?” Mariano asked. 

			
“Farm laboring jobs in Colorado, America,” Saicchitano said. “And the bosses there? They are crazy. They pay foreign workers one dollar and fifty cents in American money a day. And after a few years, maybe one or two at the most, the government gives you your own land to farm.” 

			
The brothers looked at each other. How could that be? Those were rich man’s wages. And free land? 

			
“That’s six times more than you could earn in the same job here,” the padrone added. “If you could find the work.” Which they knew they couldn’t. 

			
“But this place, this Colorado? Che cos’è?” Ange asked. 

			
“Che cos’è?” Saicchitano laughed, taking a piece of newspaper out of his satchel and reading it to them: “‘Colorado,’ it says right here in this newspaper, ‘is the Italy of Western America.’ So many Italians there, it’s like you were still home. And most are right from this area.” 

			
Mariano knew it sounded too good to be true, but as the padrone had said, “Desperate times call for desperate measures.” Besides, Mariano figured since he was a smart man, he’d just beat them (whoever “they” were) at their own game. 

			
“What about our wives and children,” Mariano asked. “Do they come with us?”

			
Saicchitano said, “Of course. As soon as you are settled, I will arrange for them to join you.”

			
For the first time, Mariano allowed himself to imagine what it could be like. He’d get that Colorado land; he’d farm it with Maria by his side. He would become what they called an American cowboy. They would be rich. They would be free. They would be happy. 

			
But there had to be more to it, Mariano knew, so he asked, “Saicchitano how do you earn money from this?” 

			
Saicchitano said his job was to find good, honest Italian men who were willing to work hard and make homes in the American West. He said he was an “agent.” It sounded like he meant he worked for the American government, but he never said that. Not really. 

			
He was no damned agent for the government. He was just a modern-day slaver for John D. Rockefeller Jr.’s Colorado Fuel and Iron Company. These padroni made a lot of money by betraying their own kind, promising the moon but sending them to hell. 

			
The US government knew about this filthy practice but looked the other way. The one thing that was true was that the US of A was in desperate need of workers—especially on the rails and in the mines. Thing is, they just didn’t give two damns about how the workers got there or what happened to them once they were handed pickaxes, hammers, and shovels. 

			
Saicchitano always promised the men at these gatherings that America needed workers so badly that he was authorized to provide them with free passage to the towns where good jobs waiting for them. He even took care of the paperwork. He said he’d already arranged for hundreds of wives and families to follow the men he’d recruited. The small fees for their passage would be taken out of their husband’s salaries. It was not anything to worry about. 

			
The La Barbera boys were strong like bulls and willing to work until they dropped—if they could see there was a light at the end of the tunnel. And they could see light, so they signed their marks on the dotted line and put an X next to their chosen work, which Saicchitano told them was “farmhand.” To assure the padrone that he would not be sorry for taking them on, Ange said they knew how to grow grapes, sugar beets, and other vegetables, so they’d be great farmhands. They even knew how to raise and slaughter goats. 

			
Saicchitano signed his name underneath their Xs. Fat Lorenzo, who didn’t trust the stranger no matter how good he was at proverbs and for sure didn’t trust any document, called out a warning as he left the group, “Chi non ha intenzione di pagare, firma qualsiasi contratto, Mariano.”—Who doesn’t intend to pay, signs any contract, Mariano. Then, the big one: “Orva di l’occhi.”—Blind to the truth.

			
Mariano laughed, but it wasn’t genuine. The brothers were both worried, but Mariano only joked back that the proverb contest was over. 

			
Fat Lorenzo couldn’t help himself and called out a final warning, “Mariano, Arcangelo: Nun vi fati schiacciari da ‘sti bastardi.”—Don’t let the bastards get you down. 

			
They wouldn’t, they promised one another. They wouldn’t let anybody get them down. There was no choice now, anyway. They just had to trust that the padrone was a man of honor and not a pezzo di merda—a piece of shit—and that they hadn’t signed their lives away. 

			
Honor? That son of a bitch made P.T. Barnum look like the pope himself. 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com

Advance Praise for The Descendant
		

	
	
		

			
Advance Praise for The Descendant

			
“The Descendant is a riveting family saga that carries readers from a small Sicilian village to the mines of Colorado and the streets of Brooklyn. Inspired by real events, it reveals the resilience and daring of the Barbera family—especially the fierce women whose courage and defiance helped them survive poverty, violence, and the pull of the Mafia. Epic in scope yet intimate in its storytelling, this is a powerful portrait of love, loss, and the fight to carve out a future against impossible odds.” 

			
—Jacqueline Friedland, USA Today bestselling author of He Gets That From Me and Counting Backwards

			
“Vivid as folklore and true as history, The Descendant brings early twentieth-century Colorado to life through women whose strength and defiance reshape their families—and the world around them.”

			
—Shelley Blanton-Stroud, author of An Unlikely Prospect

			
“Told through the eyes of one family, The Descendant is the story of how thousands of Italian immigrants helped settle the American West fighting unimaginable hardship, massacre, flood, blizzards, and bigotry to emerge triumphant as cattle ranchers, cowboys, bootleggers, and heroic WWII fighter plane crew members. Written with heartbreak and humor, Stasi’s novel brings 
needed change to the accepted, but biased, untold Italian American immigrant narrative.”

			
—Andrew Cuomo, former New York State governor and New York Times bestselling author

			
“Captivating fiction often requires an author putting the reader in a situation they have never envisioned possible. In The Descendant, Linda Stasi uses her family’s incredible true journey to take us to a time and a place few know anything about.

			
“I guarantee your imagination will put you there with them and, as I did, you will wonder what you would do to survive. This is a story that will resonate in your thoughts for a long time.”

			
—David Fisher, author of twenty-four New York Times bestselling fiction and non-fiction books 

			
 

		
	

OceanofPDF.com