c0




OceanofPDF.com

c12R





CHAPTER 11


AMBROSE

September


I never meant to break her. At least, not entirely. Not like this. Intimidate her? Sure. She needs to be aware of my power, needs to be somewhat fearful of me, needs to know she can’t run.


But any fight or determination she’d had before is gone. She’s a shell of a woman, broken by her circumstances. Circumstances that I, in part, created.


She’s an unwilling captive with someone she views as a heartless monster. The jury’s still out on whether or not I actually am one. Even I can’t decide. Most of the time, it’s easier to pretend to be the villain she wants me to be.


I shouldn’t have let her go to that hospital alone, but she also needs to see every side of death in order to embrace it, no matter how painful. Still, maybe I should have given her a less traumatic lesson first.


She had gotten under my skin last night when she returned, and when I snapped, she hadn’t even attempted to fight back; She had simply told me that if I were going to kill her, I should “get it over with.”


But I saw her reaction when I raised my voice. She flinched, not because I was loud, but because she’s lived too long with the kind of men who get loud before they get violent. Holding a knife to her throat was not one of my finer moments. I think that maybe I was hoping for a reaction, anything to break through the hollow numbness consuming her. It didn’t work, though.


I wish she would fight, yell, something to show me she’s still holding onto any spark of feeling, but it’s like she’s gone nearly catatonic, and I have no clue how to change that. I worry I’ve only dragged her deeper into the darkness she’s been drowning in.


My only rule for myself is not to get entangled in humans’ lives, but that’s exactly what I have done. I should have never interfered, but I also couldn’t stand to watch her die when she has the potential to live a life away from all the hardships she’s faced. She’s not ready to be on her own yet, though; she has no money and no plan, and her mental health is just as precarious as it was previously. I was the one who gave her hope, ironically enough, and now she’s lost it again.


It was a choice where I knew I would be the villain either way.


This was all a terrible idea. She doesn’t even know she’s alive because of me, and I do not know if that would make her hate me more or less. As soon as she took that blade to her wrist and I had to choose between waiting to take her life or making sure she survived, I did something I haven’t done in a very long time: I chose to save life instead of taking it. It was easy to slip her good-for-nothing husband’s badge back onto the bathroom countertop where he frequently leaves it.


I keep telling myself that I should forget about her, that I should tell her the deal is off and she is free to live the rest of her life.


I won’t, though. I can’t. While I justify it to myself by reasoning that it’s safer for her here than anywhere else, that’s not entirely true. My own selfish motives are still guiding me.


Just as her obsession for me had grown before she knew my true nature, so has my fixation on her grown as I’ve watched her, even though she despises me. Even though I deserve every ounce of hatred she throws my way.


I’m trying, though. Trying to be better, trying to make her feel some semblance of safety. I’ve been closing the kitchen cabinets softly rather than letting them slam closed after noticing her flinch every time it’s too sudden or loud. If I wear my shoes inside the house, she freezes at the heaviness of my footsteps, so I’ve started taking them off at the door. When she scans my expression as soon as I walk into a room, I give her a smile, even if it’s a teasing one, or make a joke, even if it’s a sarcastic one. As soon as she rolls her eyes at me, it shows me that she’s annoyed but also feels safe enough to express her annoyance.


She’s felt unsafe in her own home for so long that every conversation is met with calculated hesitance as she attempts to decipher my emotions instead of focusing on her own. Her nervous system has been on edge for so long that everything holds the potential of a threat.


I may have broken my moral compass a long time ago, but I’m not entirely a monster. I just hope she’s able to see that in time.



OceanofPDF.com

c13K





CHAPTER 12


Ican't go back to the hospital. The gravity of witnessing that kind of tragedy still sits like a lead weight in my chest. Even now, days later, the memory of that mother's wail haunts my dreams.


I need a different approach. One that involves as little trauma as possible. Maybe that’s selfish of me, but I’m not strong enough to witness that sort of agony again.


These past few days of being holed up in my room have given me plenty of time to think. Too much time, really. The walls seem to close in a little more each day, but it's better than facing Ambrose after our last encounter. Like before, I only venture downstairs for food, timing my raids on the kitchen for when he's elsewhere in the house or outside.


So, I’ve been thinking. If I can't handle the emotional toll of watching people die in hospitals, what options do I have? I’ve been mulling over ideas, and though I don’t have any solid plans, concepts are beginning to take shape in my mind.


Ambrose isn’t in the kitchen or the living room when I go downstairs in search of him, so I head toward the open doorway across the living room. There, in the midst of thousands of books lining the walls, is Ambrose, sitting on a recliner with a novel in his lap.


His gaze flicks up to me over the top of his book, but my attention is already diverted. My jaw hangs open at the sheer volume of texts lining the walls. Every wall, from floor to ceiling, is lined with wooden shelves packed with books. The only open wall space is the perimeter around the brick fireplace, which I now see is a double-sides fireplace connecting this room and the living room. Tucked back near the corner is a wooden desk, and the massive rug in the center of the room sits beneath two armchairs and a couch. The windows let in the soft glow of afternoon light that beams across the maroon carpet—and Ambrose’s thick, dark hair that falls over his forehead.


“Hello, Brielle.” My stomach flips at the way he purrs my name, but I push down the traitorous reaction.


“I need money,” I say in way of greeting, though I have a difficult time keeping my attention on him when the massive shelves around me hold a lifetime’s worth of reading material. It’s stunning, almost unbelievable. I can’t believe I’ve been in this house without knowing this room existed.


“May I ask why?”


“So I can go shopping for different clothes. I only brought a suitcase worth, and I’ll need some different outfits if I'm going to carry out my end of the deal. I have a plan. Sort of.”


Without hesitation, he reaches into his back pocket and pulls a thick fold of bills from his wallet, holding a small handful out to me. “Go nuts.”


I stare at the money, suspicious of his easy acquiescence. “Really?”


He furrows his brows. “Yes. Why, what's wrong?”


“Nothing.” I snatch the bills before he can change his mind. “Thanks. I'll be back tonight.”


He merely nods and returns to his book, dismissing me as easily as if I were a passing thought. The casualness of it all grates on my nerves. How nice it must be to care so little about everything.


I grab his keys from their hook and hurry outside. The Camaro purrs to life beneath me, and I find myself remembering the mall I passed on my trip to the hospital, which is good since I didn’t get any directions from Ambrose in my rush to leave the house.


The mall is a refreshing reminder of the normalcy that exists outside my current circumstances, filled with people living their ordinary lives. They browse racks of clothes, chat over coffee, window shop with friends. They all seem so blissfully unaware of the darker things at work in the world.


I don’t exactly have a plan for myself yet when it comes to fulfilling the bargain, but I know I’ll likely need to blend in in different environments. So, I pick a store filled with business attire first and peruse the racks of blazers, slacks, dresses, and blouses. After trying on some items, I walk out with a filled bag in hand. Next, I opt for some more casual wear, things that will allow me to blend into a crowd without notice.


Eventually, I have everything I think I need, but I still dip into a store that has a little bit of everything. I pause at a rack of dresses, sliding the silky fabric of a little black dress through my fingers. When I lift it off the rack and hold it against my body, I realize it would barely reach mid-thigh. Joel would have lost his mind if he saw me even looking at something like this. The thought makes me snag it immediately.


With a good chunk of money still in my pocket, I decide makeup comes next. It wasn't exactly a priority when I fled home, but now, who knows what I might need. I take my time with testing out various foundations and concealers on the back of my hand before picking some out, along with eye makeup, lipstick, and a contour palette. If Ambrose didn’t want me spending all this money, maybe he shouldn’t have given it to me. There’s nothing like a spite-fueled shopping trip, after all.


Next time, I’ll stash more away instead of spending so much, because he’s not getting any change back. He probably stole it all, anyway. He doesn’t seem to have a job, but he’s clearly not worried about finances considering how much he so casually handed over. It makes sense that someone so unbothered by murder would also have a propensity for theft.


The food court calls to me before I leave, the scent of greasy Chinese food and pizza wafting through the air. I settle into a corner table with my mountain of bags at my feet and a plate of orange chicken before me. Each bite is pure bliss, and for the time I’m eating, I pretend that everything in my life is perfectly normal—I’m just a normal woman shopping at the mall and eating amongst the cacophony of the food court and the buzz of people around me.


When I finally return to the cabin, laden with shopping bags, I head straight upstairs without looking for Ambrose. He's probably in one of his usual spots with a book, wearing his usual expression of detached amusement. I don't care.


In my room, I spread out my purchases across the bed, examining each piece and considering all the different contexts I could wear it in. I’ve got the clothes to allow me to fit in in almost any environment, so now comes the hard part.


I need to figure this out. I need to gather five hundred years—well, maybe closer to four hundred now, thanks to that poor boy. If I only take the lives of those who are already near death, it could take decades for me to fulfill my end of the deal. I need to find a way to do this as quickly as possible without completely destroying what's left of my already fragile mental state.


But how?



OceanofPDF.com

c14R





CHAPTER 13


I'm sitting in a corner booth at a local diner on Main Street of the nearest town with a notebook and my third cup of coffee on the table before me. The smell of grease and coffee mingles in the air, but the restaurant itself is in decent shape for something that looks straight out of the 70s, with wood paneling covering the bottom half of the white walls and dome lights above the booths.


The diner sits in the middle of the “downtown” area, which is comprised of two blocks of storefronts, most of them dilapidated and boarded up with crooked “Closed” or “For Lease” signs hanging in darkened windows. From what I saw on my walk down the street earlier, the only places open were a pawn shop, an old family-owned pharmacy, a thrift store, a Chinese restaurant, a few bars, and this diner, all enveloped by the morning fog seeping through the spaces between buildings and enshrouding the street.


It’s identical to most rural southern small towns I’ve come across that aren’t tourist destinations. Storefronts side-by-side in crumbling brick buildings that require more repair than anyone can afford, used for months or years, then closed never to be re-opened. The only places you can expect to be a constant in towns like this are bars and churches.


The fog suspended in the gray sky makes it feel more like a ghost town, though. Too quiet aside from the occasional passing car, their headlights cutting through the air before being swallowed into the haze again.


I wrap my hands around the steaming cup of coffee on the chipped laminate table before me and shake my attention away from the window to stare down at the blank page of my notebook.


I’ve been staring at the open notebook all morning, hoping a plan might simply materialize before me, but unfortunately, the blank lines continue to taunt me.


Outside, the thick fog presses against the windows.


Once I take another sip of the slightly bitter coffee, I pick up my pen and write the words “Game Plan” at the top of the page, just to feel like I’ve started something.


In reality, I could stay here all day. The freedom to come and go as I please from Ambrose’s house is strange after spending most of my adulthood with Joel. No trackers, no interrogations about where I’ve been. Of course, the fact that I can't stay away for more than a day is probably all the reassurance he needs. He had said that the longer I’m away, the more it will drain my energy until I’m too weak to survive, and I’m not eager to test those limits.


Across the small restaurant, a group of five elderly men loudly complain about “the state of the world these days,” their conversation jumping from politics to the media to money then back to politics. I tune them out at first until one man’s words snag my attention. I’m not entirely sure which political leader they’re talking about, but the man’s rather crass proclamation of, “I wish that fucker would die. We’d all be better off without him,” is enough to make me think.


Every day, so many people who deserve to live full, happy lives pass away, like that little boy from the hospital. Most people don’t deserve to die early.


But some do.


A plan begins to materialize as I uncap my pen.


I used to think that wishing death upon anyone was too extreme. People could change, after all, and they wouldn’t have the opportunity to right their wrongs if they’re dead. But the longer I’m alive, the more I realize that some people will never change, no matter how many chances they’re given to be a good person.


It may be debatable as to whether or not people are inherently good or inherently evil, but one thing’s for certain: There are too many people actively making a choice to be evil, and if the death of one man means better lives for a dozen others, who am I to say he should live?


Who are you to say he should die, either? The voice in the back of my mind whispers, but I push it away. This isn’t the time for some internal philosophical debate.


I take another swig of my coffee and savor the bitter warmth as it washes down my throat. The waitress, a middle-aged woman with tired eyes but a kind demeanor, refills my cup without a word. I flash her a grateful smile and thank her, watching her walk away before I start writing.


My thoughts shift to overdrive as I jot down categories and ideas, my handwriting messy from my hurried pace. The list grows longer as I brainstorm, the dark ink smudging when I accidentally rub my hand across the words.


On the right side of the page, I do some calculations, now having a rough idea of who to target. If the average natural lifespan of a person is seventy-five years, give or take, how many people would I need to target in order to fulfill the bargain? I do a handful of calculations with different variations, but the number still seems so high.


Five hundred years is a lot of time, but at least I have some sort of motivation now.


The bell above the door tinkles as a customer enters, and I glance up, ensuring nobody passes too close to my booth and happens to see my list titled “Game Plan” that starts with the words, “Child abusers, rapists, murderers.” Not only would that be an incredibly difficult thing to explain, but the third entry might be a bit ironic given my new circumstances.


The diner is getting busier as patrons filter in for an early lunch, though, so I need to get going soon. I look back down at my list and tap my pen against the paper. A list of types of people who, in my opinion, do more harm than good. The world is full of them, hiding in plain sight, preying on the weak and vulnerable.


If anyone deserves to die, it’s the people who actively and irreparably harm others. The ones whose deaths would result in others’ safety and wellbeing.


Joel flashes through my mind, but I quickly push the image of him away. I don’t want to see or think about him ever again. Even the thought of going back home makes it hard to breathe. There are plenty of men out there just like Joel, though.


But how do I find them? How do I choose? It would help if I had a phone to do any research, but I don’t.


I flip the notebook closed and take a moment to observe the diner while absentmindedly picking at the cracked vinyl of the booth. It’s strange how normal everything feels—dishes clanking in the kitchen, old men debating politics, the oldies station playing on the tinny radio, families coming in for lunch before school starts back up next week.


And here I am, plotting murder in a family diner, trying to justify my actions with some twisted sense of morality.


I want to believe that I’m doing the right thing, that I’ll be making the world a better place if I go along with this plan I’m scheming up, though I know it’s not that simple. But, I have to do something to fulfill my bargain, and this is the best idea I’ve had so far. It’s also the most ethically ambiguous, but at this point, maintaining a sense of morality may be a futile effort when I’ve essentially gone and made a deal with a demon. Or whatever the hell he wants to call himself.


The waitress approaches the table to politely ask me if I need anything else, but I can tell it’s her way of asking me when I’m going to leave. The seats are filling quickly as more people file in for lunch, and I’ve been sitting here drinking coffee after having finished my breakfast well over an hour ago.


“I’ll just take the check,” I tell her.


“Perfect. I’ll be right back.”


I pay with the cash left over from what Ambrose had given me yesterday, and I’m about to leave when two women, probably in their mid-twenties, slide into the booth directly in front of mine. They speak loudly enough that I can’t help but overhear their conversation.


“So, what's the plan for tonight?” one of them asks the other over the sound of their plastic menus flopping open.


“I don't know. We could stay around here and hit the bars, which would be less money, or we could spend the night in the city.”


The girl with strawberry blonde hair who’s facing in my direction wrinkles her nose. “Ugh, the bars here suck, but I really don’t want to spend money on a hotel room either.”


Her friend sighs. “Yeah, that's fair. And we also can’t go to DJ’s.”


“Why?”


She drops her voice. “Don’t you remember what happened to Kayla? I don’t even care who’s working there, I don’t trust the place anymore.”


“Ohhh, I forgot about that. Poor girl.”


Their warning tone piques my interest. What happened to this girl that would make these women avoid one of the local bars?


I stand from my seat and slide my notebook off the table before tossing my purse over my shoulder and taking a timid step over to their booth.


“I’m so sorry to bother you,” I say in a soft, friendly tone. “But I'm here in town for a couple of months visiting an older family member, and I was planning on going out for a couple of drinks tonight. I overheard you talking about the bars near here. Is there, uh, one I should avoid?”


The two women exchange a glance before the more serious one nods. “Yeah, DJ’s, right on the eastern edge of town.” She lowers voice even more. “One of the bartenders has been drugging women. A couple people reported it over the past couple of months, but the police weren't able to prove anything, so it was dropped.”


“Wow. That’s fucked up.”


“I know, right? And the bartender he works with most of the time is his best friend, so I’d be willing to bet they’re both in on it,” the other woman adds with clear disgust in her expression.


I blow out a slow breath. “Well, thanks for the info. I appreciate it.”


“No problem.”


They smile at me, and I return the gesture before walking away. As I exit the diner, the bell above the door chimes softly before I step outside into the impenetrable fog. It’s gotten thicker against the backdrop of the gray sky, and a boxy stoplight suspended from wires at the center of the intersection sways, the halo of the illuminated red circle bleeding into the air.


When I finally reach the car, I toss my notebook into the passenger seat and smile to myself.


No need to brainstorm anymore today; I have a plan and a potential target.



OceanofPDF.com

c16K





CHAPTER 14


“Power is given only to him who dares to stop and take it… one must have the courage to dare.”


—Fyodor Dostoevsky


After an hour of trying on outfits, mixing and matching various articles of clothing, I’m finally walking downstairs in a pair of dark-washed jeans that hug my curves, a tight black blouse, and mini heeled boots. I took the time to do my makeup as well, winging out a subtle smoky eye and putting on a neutral-pink lipstick, which I haven’t done in years. Joel always hated dark makeup.


I take a deep breath when I make it to the bottom of the stairs, mentally preparing myself for the night ahead, then round the corner to the kitchen.


“Where are you going?”


Ambrose’s voice makes me jump, and I teeter on my heels before steadying myself with a hand against the wall.


“Jesus, you scared me.”


His gaze rakes over my body before returning to my face, and if I didn’t know any better, I’d think he was checking me out.


He’s probably just surprised I can clean up so well. I’ve practically been living in sweatpants and t-shirts since I got here.


“I asked you a question,” he prompts.


Oh, right. Asshole. “I’m going to the bar.”


His eyebrows rise before he schools his expression to his typical cocky self. “Why? Do you have a date?”


His tone is off, like his taunting holds more of a bite than normal. Something must have put him in a bad mood today, but I don’t care enough to ask what or why.


“Does it matter?” I fire back with a feigned smile. For once, it feels like I’m the one with control while he’s on edge, and I can’t say I hate the shift in the dynamic, no matter how temporary it may be. He deserves to suffer a little. Or a lot.


Ambrose clenches his jaw, and it takes everything in me not to laugh in his stupid, smug face. Doesn’t feel so good to be taunted all the time, does it, asshole?


“No,” he finally says, his tone too controlled, like it’s taking entirely too much effort to speak normally. “But I’d appreciate knowing if you’ll be out for the entire night. And I refuse to allow another man into my home, so don’t even consider bringing someone back here.”


I snicker. “Relax. The only reason I’m going to the bar is to make the most of this deal you tricked me into making.” I brush past him on my way to the fridge, ignoring the way his eyes stay locked on me.


His tone is considerably lighter when he asks, “Oh, is that so?”


I take a swig of the soda I just cracked open and stare right back at him. “Yes, and I’m leaving now. I’ll be back sometime tonight. Don’t wait up.” With that, I stride past him, loving the sense of power that comes with the measured click-click-click of my heeled booties against the hardwood floor. As I walk, I pull the necklace from its place in my purse pocket and slip it over my head.


I snatch the keys to the Camaro without losing my stride and slam the front door behind me.


Resentment simmers up in my chest. What right does he have to question me like that after he’s the one that’s trapped me here? He’s given me the rules of our deal, and that should be enough. I don’t owe him an explanation. Although, it was entertaining knocking him off balance for a change. I don’t know what’s gotten into him tonight, but he can stew in it for all I care. I’ve got more important things to worry about.


I park the car on the side of the street, two blocks down from the bar. Close enough for a getaway, but far enough that it’s not in direct view of the bar or any cameras that might be out front. There’s no way to predict how tonight will go, so I can only hope I manage to get out unscathed.


Pushing open the heavy wooden door, I step into the dimly lit dive bar and am enveloped by the smell of stale cigarette smoke and beer.


The country music playing over the speakers is barely audible over the cacophony of voices and billiards balls clacking into each other. The open area in the back of the bar has six pool tables, all teeming with people.


As I make my way towards the bar, the soles of my shoes cling to the sticky wooden floor, and my skin prickles with the amount of attention shifting to me. I’m a stranger walking into a small-town bar all alone, and everyone seems to notice.


Quickly channelling the necklace’s magic, I will myself to become less noticeable, to blend into the background. It’s a strange sensation, like a veil dropping over me, and the gazes slip away. Thank goodness that worked.


I take a seat at the end of the bar, tucked into a corner where the shadows are deepest. It’s the perfect place to lay my trap. I release the energy I’m transmitting to the necklace—or the necklace is transmitting to me. I’m still not really sure how this works—and catch the attention of one of the bartenders a moment later. He’s young, probably close to my age, with a wide, charming grin that reminds me of Joel’s public facade. I suppress a shudder and smile back.


“Hey there, sweetheart,” he drawls, his bright blue eyes dipping to my chest before flicking back up to my face. I panic for a second before realizing he’s checking out my cleavage, not taking an interest in the necklace hanging against my chest. “What can I get you?”


“Can I get a can of whatever cider you’ve got? I should probably start light,” I say, giving him my sweetest smile.


“Sure thing. Planning on drinking something stronger afterwards?” The question seems innocent enough, but knowing what I do about him—or who I’m expecting him to be, based on what the women at the diner said and the way his presence automatically stirs uneasiness in my gut—I’m certain I can hear the predatory undertone.


If he’s the right guy, he's probably already planning how to spike whatever drink comes next. That’s part of why I ordered a can—it’s not nearly as easy to drop something into if I’m paying attention. Still, I need to be certain. The thought of taking an innocent life makes my stomach turn, so I need absolute proof of his guilt before I act. Only then will I be able to justify it to myself.


“Maybe,” I answer coyly, brushing my long hair back over my shoulder. “We’ll see how the night goes.”


He grins and turns to grab my drink from the mini-fridge. I watch him as he moves, noticing his eyes flick over to me more than once.


When he brings my drink, he lingers, propping his elbows up on the bar. “So, I haven’t seen you around here before.” His eyes dip to my cleavage again. Way to be subtle, buddy.


“Yeah, I’m just in town for a few weeks, staying with my uncle. Figured I’d get out of the house for a bit since it’s Friday night.”


“Well, welcome. I hope your Friday night doesn’t end up being too boring.” He winks. “I’m Jake, by the way.”


“I’m Brielle,” I reply. As soon as I say it, I regret not giving him a fake name. I’m the worst criminal ever, and I haven’t even committed a crime yet.


“That’s a beautiful name. What part of town are you staying in?”


I give him a vague answer about being quite a few miles out, in the middle of nowhere, then immediately launch into a fabricated story about my elderly uncle and how I’m helping him fix up his house. As I speak, my eyes to wander behind him, taking notice of the fire extinguisher in the far corner, the box of empty liquor bottles marked “Recycle,” and pool cue with a broken tip leaning against the wall beside the door to the back room.


The bartender—Jake—focuses all his attention on me, neglecting the other patrons while the other bartender helps them out.


The entire time we converse, I’m flirting and laughing at his stupid jokes, playing the part of a woman enraptured with his charm and fawning over how handsome he is. Too bad for him, I’m not really into douchey blondes.


Jake finally walks away to close out a different customer’s tab, and I don’t even have time to breathe a sigh of relief before I notice a familiar presence halfway down the bar.


Ambrose sits in one of the stools, wearing jeans and a black t-shirt that hugs his biceps. Most of the women in this place are casting inconspicuous glances in his direction, and I realize it’s probably because he doesn’t have his necklace to avoid the attention.


I’m standing from my seat and making my way over to him before I can think about what I’m doing. He’s going to fuck up this whole thing.


“What the hell are you doing here?” I hiss.


He gives me a sardonic smile and signals to the bartender, orders an old fashioned, then turns back to me. “I was interested to see what you were planning to do. When my new pet leaves the house, I’m inclined to find out what she’s up to.”


I grit my teeth, trying to keep my voice low. “I’m not your pet, asshole. You need to leave.”


He merely shrugs, accepting his drink from the bartender and handing him a credit card. “Hmm…” he pretends to contemplate my demand. “I don’t think I will.”


“You’re fucking evil.”


He takes a sip of his whiskey, his eyes never leaving mine. “Can you blame me for wanting some entertainment.”


“Why couldn’t you have just stayed home and been boring like usual?” I ask, though the question is mostly rhetorical.


“No rest for the wicked, baby,” he taunts with a devilish grin. “Plus, I couldn’t miss an opportunity to watch you seduce a man to death. I have to admit, it’s kind of hot.”


I roll my eyes and ignore the chill that runs through me. This is his game, I remind myself. Knocking me off balance just to watch me struggle, and I refuse to let him get inside my head.


I turn away from him, my heart pounding with anger. What a sick, twisted, cocky asshole. Taking a deep breath, I attempt to compose myself, then take my seat at the end of the bar while trying to ignore Ambrose’s existence.


“Everything alright?” Jake asks, nodding subtly in Ambrose’s direction.


I force a smile. “Yeah, everything’s fine. That’s just my cousin. He’s been pissing me off lately, but he’s harmless.”


Jake leans in and drops his voice. I can smell the beer on his breath. “Good. I was hoping he wasn’t some boyfriend I’d have to steal you away from.”


My stomach churns, but I force a lighthearted laugh and flutter my eyelashes at him like I’m some flirty goddamn teenager. “No stealing necessary.”


He winks. “Need another drink?”


I pretend to think about it for a second. “Maybe a shot. But only if you’ll do one with me. I do need a proper welcome to town, after all.”


“In that case, are you down for a double?”


“Someone likes to party,” I tease. “But sure.”


His smile widens, and he pours us each a shot. I don’t miss the way his gaze flicks to the side, the way he mutters something to the other bartender who smirks and nods before walking over to Ambrose, who is holding up his empty glass in silent request for another drink.


I reach down and rummage through my purse, pretending to look for something and subtly palming the small bag of powder I’d hidden there earlier. My distraction gives Jake the opportunity he’s looking for. In my peripheral vision, I notice the sly slip of his hand as he drops a tablet into the shot glass.


He sets the shots down in front of us, pushing mine directly in front of me, but before I take it, I lift my empty can of cider.


“Could you grab me another cider too? I didn’t realize I finished this one, and I don’t think I can take a shot without a chaser.”


He glances down at the shot glasses, checking to make sure they’re clearly separated and on their respective sides of the bar.


As soon as his back is turned, I channel the energy from the necklace to obscure my actions as I dump the powder—one of my old Xanax pills I had crushed earlier in preparation for this very moment—into my shot glass before quickly swapping it with Jake’s.


But even with the obscurity I’m channeling, Ambrose’s eyes burn a hole in the side of my head.


That’s fine. Let the asshole watch. It’s not like he has any room to judge.


Jake returns with my cider, and I flash him a sweet smile as I lift my shot glass. The predatory gleam in his eyes makes my stomach churn, but my nausea is subdued by the fact that he’ll soon be getting a taste of his own medicine, so to speak.


And I’ll probably need the whiskey to deal with whatever comes next.


I clink glasses with Jake, and as I throw back the shot, I can’t help but think, this is it. This is where it begins. My descent into evil.


How do I do this without losing myself? Without becoming a monster like Ambrose?


You’re doing this for a good reason, I remind myself. He’s not only been drugging and sexually assaulting unsuspecting women, but getting away with it. And while I know that any one person being judge, jury, and executioner isn’t ideal when it comes to enacting justice, my options are limited.


As I watch him and note the satisfied, predatory gleam in his eyes, I know that this is the right target. This is a man with malevolence in his heart.


Who’s to say he won’t change? The voice in the back of my head asks. What if he becomes a good person in the future and expresses guilt and remorse for what he’s done?


I shake the thought away. I can ask myself “what if” questions all night, but the truth of the matter is, men like him have already caused more harm than they could possibly atone for in the future. Becoming a better person in the future doesn’t erase one’s past transgressions no matter how much regret they might have.


“I’ll be right back,” Jake says when a woman at the end of the bar calls him over. “Don’t go anywhere,” he adds with a wink. “I still want to get to know you better.”


Yeah, I bet you do.


I don’t know how long it’ll take the combination of drugs to kick in alongside the alcohol, but I don’t figure it’ll be too long. Maybe half an hour. My Xanax prescription was a high dose, meant to be taken as needed for the occasional panic attacks. That, combined with whatever he spiked the drink with alongside the alcohol will make for a pretty potent cocktail.


As I let my gaze wander around the bar, I accidentally lock eyes with Ambrose. He’s staring at me.


I narrow my eyes at him, but his expression doesn’t change. He simply raises a glass toward me in mock salute then takes a sip.


Jake returns to me a couple minutes after closing some tabs. He props his elbows on the bar and leans in too close.


“So, how are you getting home?” he asks. “I don’t think you should be driving after drinking this much.”


“I don’t know. I didn’t plan on drinking this much.” In reality, I’ve had two ciders and a shot over the course of a couple hours, but that’s not really what he cares about anyway. He’s anticipating that, at any minute, I’ll be feeling a lot less sober than I expected to. That’s when he’ll swoop in and save the day.


“Don’t worry, I can give you a ride home,” he offers, but there’s a slight slur to his words.


Perfect.


“I wouldn’t want to inconvenience you,” I say with feigned concern. “Plus, I’m not feeling too great… I think I need to get some air first.”


“Let me help you,” he says a little too eagerly. “There's a door out back where you can get some air, away from all the smokers out front.”


I nod weakly, following him as he guides me towards the back door. He doesn’t notice me grabbing the broken pool cue that’s leaning against the wall, and I subtly hold it behind my back until we’re outside.


The alleyway behind the bar is dark and smells like rotting garbage, the only light coming from a distant streetlamp on the main road.


Jake stumbles slightly as we step into the alley and furrows his eyebrows at me when he notices me leaning the pool cue against the wall. It’s almost comical how clueless he is. The shouts and laughter from inside the bar are instantly cut off when the door slams shut.


The silence is terrifying, if only because it makes me fully aware of what’s about to happen. It’s only the two of us now, alone in the dark alley.


Am I really about to kill this man? If I ran now, I could get in the car and be back at the cabin before anyone realizes what’s happened. It would make tonight’s attempt futile, but then I wouldn’t have to live with the guilt of what I’m about to do.


Jake backs me against the cold brick wall, placing both hands on the wall on either side of me in an attempt to steady himself as he leans down to kiss me.


I turn my head at the last second. “Stop,” I snap, as if that will do anything to deter him. His breath is hot on my cheek as he sways in place.


I look around, scanning the alley quickly for any cameras that might be placed out here, but I don’t notice any. Still, I can't be too careful. I focus on channeling the power of the necklace again, willing it to obscure me from any people as well as any cameras. Whether it will work, I can't be sure, but it's a risk I have to take. I make a mental note to ask Ambrose more about the magic this week.


Jake presses closer, lifting one hand off the wall so he can caress my cheek. “C’mon, don't be like that," he slurs, trying to force another kiss.


I sidestep him easily, and he stumbles forward, hitting his head against the brick wall with a sickening crack.


“Fuck,” he mutters, overcorrecting by stumbling backward and falling on his ass.


Now what? Do I wait?


The drug combination might do the trick of killing him, but every second I spend out here with him runs the risk of me getting caught. I need to end this as quickly as possible.


He’s still on the ground rubbing his forehead when I snatch the pool cue from where I had leaned it against the wall and approach him from behind.


As I stare at his hunched form on the ground, a pang of guilt hits me at what I’m about to do, but I don’t allow myself to let it linger. In fact, anger wells up in my chest as I come to terms with the situation I’m in. It’s been easy to look at this guy as nothing more than a nuisance tonight, but only because I knew what I was getting myself into. If I really had been an unsuspecting woman looking for a nice night out, he’d probably be raping my unconscious ass in this alley right now.


Why should I give mercy to a man who’d never show me the same kindness? Men like him take without care to feed their own selfish desires. Why should I be any different?


My heart hammers in my chest as I grip it in my hands like a baseball bat, my hands about halfway up the length with the thicker end at the top.


He looks up just as I start to swing.


“What are you⁠—”


I don’t give him time to finish his sentence.


As I bring the stick down with all my strength, that voice in the back of my mind whispers, This is it. The point of no return.


The wood connects with his temple with a heavy thud.


Falling back slightly, he raises his arm, attempting to shield his head from the next blow, but he’s not fast enough with the drugs in his system.


He slurs out angry, panicked curses, as I hit him again and again, each blow more brutal than the last. Blood runs from his nose and the gashes on his head. The more I hit him, the more rage courses through me. All the injustices of the world seem to be condensed into the microcosm of this moment, and he’s a representation of all the shitty men who harm others for their own selfish gains. And I want to destroy him.


I don’t stop. I can’t stop.


I strike him over and over again, aiming for his temples and the base of his skull, and each crunch of bone reverberates through the stick in my hand like the crack of a bat against a baseball. Eventually, he’s still, collapsed on the ground in a pile of limbs with blood gushing from his nose. His jaw juts out at an odd angle, and his face is already bruising and swelling beyond recognition.


I stand there, breathing in ragged gasps and wondering if he’s still alive but afraid to get close enough to him to check.


And then, suddenly, I feel it—the moment his life leaves him. It's a gentle sort of shudder that passes through me and into the necklace. His years add to the tally, and the weight of the stone pendant settles around my neck like a noose.


I drop the pool stick then pick it back up again a second later, realizing I can’t leave a murder weapon at the scene. When I lift it from the ground, I notice I’m shaking. Not just my hands, but my whole body is trembling with the shock of what I've just done.


But it's done. He's dead.


And I wish I could say I felt worse about it.


I walk to the back of the alley and circle the block to get to my car, doing my best to focus on being as invisible as possible. Walking down a main road with a bloody pool cue is sure to gain me unwanted attention.


My heels click against the pavement, and the sound bounces off the surrounding buildings in the quiet night. Finally, I reach the spot where I parked the Camaro.


Ambrose’s car sits a few spaces down from mine, and I realize he’s probably still waiting for me to come back inside.


Let him wait. He can stay there all night for all I care.


Opening the door, I slide into the driver's seat, my hands specked with blood as they grip the steering wheel. I take a deep breath to steady myself, and then I start the engine and pull away from the curb, leaving behind the alley and the body and the girl I used to be.


I just killed a man, and that’s something I can never take back.


I wait for the guilt to overwhelm me, to consume me the way it did after that last trip to the hospital.


But it doesn’t.


In fact, my chest feels lighter, like I’ve lifted a weight off it that I hadn’t even realized was there. Maybe that’s the curse of my mind—numb to violence, so used to dissociating from brutality in order to survive.


That should scare me, the fact that I don’t feel any remorse for murdering a man, but it doesn’t. The only feeling coursing through me is the sick, sweet satisfaction of vengeance.



OceanofPDF.com

c1B2





CHAPTER 15


The woods are darker than I remember, thick with a tension that makes it seem like the entire forest is holding its breath.


What am I doing out here?


A familiar force tugs me forward, desire and unease twisting together in a strange sort of magnetism, and I know he’s here. Ambrose is watching, waiting somewhere in the shadows.


This time, I don’t have to search for him before he speaks to me.


“Lost?”


His voice is a jolt of electricity straight to my heart, forcing it to pick up speed as I whirl around to face him.


Every one of his features—razor-sharp cheekbones, rigid jawline, a subtle smirk on his full lips—is streaked with slashes of silver moonlight.


“No,” I lie. “I’m just headed back to the house.”


He moves, circling me slowly, like a predator assessing its prey. It’s unsettling in the worst kind of way. I stand frozen, though my eyes stay locked on him when he’s in my line of sight. I try not to think about the fractions of a second when he’s fully behind me and I’m completely vulnerable. But I won’t give him the satisfaction of seeing my fear.


“Ah, but where’s the fun in that?” His voice wraps around me like the vines snaking through the forest.


“I’m not trying to have any fun out here,” I bite back.


“Mmm, but what if I am?”


I wave a dismissive hand and hope he can’t hear my heart pounding against my ribcage. “Have whatever fun you want in this creepy ass forest, but I’m leaving.”


“That’s where we have a problem,” he murmurs, closing the two feet of distance between us to stand before me. I refuse to look at his face, not wanting to be forced to confront the smugness on his face from knowing he has me trapped.


But he clicks his tongue and places a finger under my chin to tilt my head up, forcing me to face him.


“Because you’re what I want to play with. My ‘fun’ involves you, whether you want it to or not.”


I swallow around the lump forming in my throat, my voice breathy when I ask, “W-what do you mean?”


“You’ll find out soon enough, pet,” he murmurs, using that infuriating nickname while tucking a strand of my hair behind my ear. My breath catches in my throat.


I don’t have time to question him before he leans down, his mouth only an inch from my ear, and his low voice turns to a growl. “Run.”


There’s such an urgency in that one word that my feet are carrying me over twigs and damp leaves before I even realize I’ve moved. I don’t know why I’m running, but I’m certain I don’t want to get caught.


The forest swallows me whole.


Branches claw at my arms like grasping fingers. The shadows seem to slither between the trees, stretching unnaturally, as if the very night is alive and complicit in his fucked up game of cat and mouse. I don’t dare look back. The beating of my feet against the ground and my blood pounding through my head is enough to drown out any sound behind me. I have no idea how close he is, unable to tell whether the crunching leaves and cracking branches are from my own steps or his as I run deeper into the forest.


My lungs burn with every ragged inhale, but I can’t stop. Adrenaline courses through me, pushing me deeper into the darkness. Yet alongside the fear sparking inside me, there’s something else that I refuse to acknowledge—a dull ache between my legs that pulses in time with my pounding pulse.


He's hunting me.


And I can’t help but wonder what he’ll do to me if he catches me…


The trees blur together, the darkness broken only by moonlight slicing through the gaps between the leaves.


My ankle catches on a root, and I stumble, barely managing to stay upright. My lungs scream. My legs ache.


But I don’t stop, because I can feel him.


Not see him, not hear him, but feel his presence like electricity crackling in the air.


Low, amused laughter resonates behind me, and my muscles burn as I push my legs to run faster.


This is a game to him. He’s toying with me.


He’s going to catch me. It’s inevitable, but I’m not about to make it easy for him.


I veer off to the right, off the deer trail, hoping the undergrowth will slow him. Thorns tear at my jeans and scrape my skin, but I don’t care. I push harder, ducking beneath low branches, half-blind in the dark.


A hand latches onto my bicep, and I scream.


He yanks me back so quickly that my breath rushes out of my lungs just as my back slams against a tree trunk.


The bark is rough, even through the fabric of my shirt, and a hand clamps over my mouth before I can scream again.


I look up to face my captor, my predator. His expression is feral.


“Just not fast enough,” he says, drawing out the words in a low taunt.


My lungs burn with the need for more oxygen, and my chest heaves as I breathe through my nose.


“I’ve wanted to catch you for a long time, my pet,” he purrs, twisting me in one swift motion so that my back is against his chest rather than the tree. I have a feeling he isn’t just talking about this chase through the woods.


I whimper, unable to speak with his hand still clasped over my mouth. The few seconds of silence, of waiting to see what his next move is, feel like an eternity.


Finally, he moves, and my breath catches in my throat when Ambrose’s palm trails around my waist and across my stomach, sliding lower and lower. Despite the terror burning through my veins, my stomach somersaults with his touch, and there’s a throbbing between my legs that I desperately wish would go away.


Ambrose’s hand is splayed across my lower abdomen, and he presses it firmly into me, forcing my torso against his body even more.


That’s when I notice his erection pressing against me.


“This is what you do to me. You can try to run and scream, but that fear in your eyes only makes me want you more.”


He removes his hand from my mouth.


“I loathe you,” I seethe.


“Love and loathing are the same sensations, simply with different names.”


“That’s a lie. I hate you. Love is entirely out of the question.”


Slowly, Ambrose’s hand moves lower inch by inch, until he’s slipping his fingers past the waistband of my pants and into my panties.


“Keep telling yourself that, but I think we both know that’s not entirely true. Look how wet you are for me, and I’ve barely even touched you yet.”


I’m frozen, ashamed of the effect his words have on me. Why is this turning me on? And even worse, why am I imagining him forcing me to take him in the middle of these woods?


It’s despicable.


But even as I want to yell, fight, something, I can’t help but roll my hips against him as his finger presses against my throbbing clit. Fuck, that feels good.


His fingers move slowly, rhythmically, just enough to make me desperate for more. With each shift of my hips, his cock rubs against my ass, and I reach up to steady myself against the tree trunk as the tension in my core winds tighter. The bark is rough against my palms, but clutching the tree is still preferable to collapsing in Ambrose’s arms. It may be the only minuscule shred of dignity I have left.


He leans forward over my hunched form to slide his fingers farther down, and there’s a pressure at my entrance just before he pushes two inside. I cry out at the sudden intrusion, and he curls his fingers inside me while his palm keeps steady pressure against my clit.


Fuck.


“That’s right, baby. Let me hear how good I make you feel,” he growls.


I bite back my moans, not wanting to give him the satisfaction of getting everything he wants from me, though I don’t know how much I’ll be able to hold back. I’m dangerously close to coming, and his movements are relentless as he pushes me closer and closer toward my orgasm.


“Is that how it’s going to be?” he taunts, noticing my attempts to hold back. “I do love a challenge…”


He picks up his pace and intensity, until I’m a writhing, needy mess beneath his touch. My pleasure builds inside me like a wire ready to snap, until I take a shuddering breath and⁠—


I wake from the dream with a start, my heart pounding in my chest and a throbbing ache between my thighs.


Holy. Shit.


The urge to slip my hand between my legs overwhelms me until I realize where I am and who’s in this house with me…


Ambrose probably did this on purpose. He admitted my dreams about him from before were all intentional on his part, and I’m sure this is another ploy to fuck with my head.


God, I hate him.


“Love and loathing are the same sensations with different names.” His words from my dream echo in my mind.


As if I’m not already going through enough stress, the last thing I need is to be thinking about fucking the immortal man—demon, Liminal, whatever—who forced me here against my will and is now making me carry out some ridiculous bargain that involves watching people die.


He doesn’t deserve my attraction, and I’m not about to give into his twisted mind games.


I hastily pull on my pajama pants and stomp downstairs, where Ambrose is sitting at the kitchen table writing in his leather journal and sipping a cup of coffee. When I stop in the doorway to cross my arms and glare at him, he slowly raises his gaze and lifts an eyebrow.


“Yes?”


“Stay the hell out of my dreams.”


He cocks his head. “What do you mean?”


“You know what I mean.”


He’s silent for a moment until a pleased, knowing look overtakes his features. “Did you have a dream about me, pet?”


I furrow my brow. Is this a trick question, or was that really not his doing? A blush stains my cheeks as I desperately attempt to play it cool.


“No.” I rush past him into the kitchen to brew a pot of coffee. There’s a warm pulse in my core at the sound of his nickname for me, a reminder of how he had said it to me in my dream. “And stop calling me that.”


His low chuckle carries through the silence. “Hmm… maybe I’ll consider another pet name for you if you tell me about this dream you had.” The sound of his fingers drumming against the cover of his notebook makes me want to throw this ceramic mug right at his damn head.


“Fuck off.”


He laughs again but thankfully doesn’t say anything else.


Once I’ve poured my coffee, I head back upstairs in an attempt to save whatever shred of dignity I might have left. God, that was humiliating.


My brain, as always, is working against me to fuck things up. Still, I can’t shake the lingering feelings from that dream.


So much danger, so much seduction, so much exhilaration. I know it’s just the leftover endorphins flooding my body, but that doesn’t make the physical effects any less real.


Damn it all.


After setting my coffee on the nightstand, I flop back onto my bed and pull out a notebook, doing some more math to consider the number of lives I’ll need to take to get the hell out of this mess. Then, I turn to a blank page and title it “Future” with the intent of brainstorming where I might go after this, what I might do, or who I might become without the constraints I’ve come to know.


And just like that, my thoughts are a whirlwind again, too chaotic and overwhelming to even begin to make sense of.


The page stays blank until I close the notebook, finish my coffee, and consider my imminent next steps to get the hell out of this situation as quickly as possible.



OceanofPDF.com

c1E4





CHAPTER 16


Life is divided into a series of befores and afters. We section our existence into fragments separated by milestones: before and after graduating high school, getting married, moving to a new city, losing a loved one. Now, my life has been forevermore divided into the time before and after I’ve killed a man.


The afternoon air is heavy with the promise of rain as I walk the property, needing to clear my head after the events of the last few days. Thick, gray clouds gather in the distance, but the sun still shines for the time being.


I don't feel guilty as I should for killing that bartender. The murder replays in my mind like a video on a loop, but it feels distant, disconnected, as if I was simply a witness in the scene and not the perpetrator. It’s a relief, honestly, to not be wracked with guilt, though that should probably be cause for concern. Can I really justify killing a man simply because he was a shitty person?


Apparently I can.


Behind the house, I discover Ambrose has a fire pit that looks unused and a massive vegetable garden. Neat rows of plants line the raised bed. I try to imagine him out here watering the garden or pulling weeds, but it’s difficult to envision. It seems too domestic for someone—something—like him.


I walk the perimeter of the multi-acre yard along the treeline, finding a small break in the trees where a worn path leads into the woods.


My dream from this morning filters through my mind, but I shove it away.


I glance over my shoulder to make sure Ambrose isn’t watching me, then take the path into the woods. The further I walk, the more the trees close in around me, their branches creating a canopy where sunlight spears through the gaps.


The forest is still a deep green, though the falling temperature each week tells me that the leaves will be changing soon. Will I still be here when they start to fall? Or even when they begin to grow back in the spring? The thought of being here for another year is almost more than I can bear. Freedom is close enough to taste now that I have an end goal, so every day spent here is a day wasted.


I rear back when a crow takes flight from a branch near me, cawing loudly and followed by two others. It takes a moment for my heart to settle back to its normal pace, and I shake my head at my skittishness.


I’ve been walking for fifteen minutes under a canopy of encroaching trees when a white building peeks through the trees. At first, I think I’ve gone too far and found another house hidden out here in the mountains, but I recall Ambrose saying he owns dozens of acres surrounding the house. I definitely haven’t walked that far. As I round the bend of the path, I realize it’s not a house; it’s a church.


It’s a simple rectangular building with a slanted roof behind a short steeple, seemingly lost to time but still standing. The white vinyl siding is peeling away to expose the gray beneath, and the brick foundation is crumbling. A couple of the windows are boarded up, but I’m surprised to see that most of the lancet stained glass windows remain.


When I circle the building, giving it a wide berth, a small graveyard comes into view as I round the other side.


It seems like a perfect recipe for a horror movie—a woman alone in the woods coming across an abandoned church with a cemetery. But though the air is heavy here, like it tends to be in any sacred space, there’s no fear prickling my skin.


I make the potentially stupid decision to investigate further, climbing the three cracked concrete stairs and tugging at the handle on the wooden door, its white paint chipped and peeling.


It opens.


The door squeals on rusty hinges, and the sound echoes in the empty space. It’s a small church, obviously abandoned long ago, but some long-forgotten pews and dozens of candles sit untouched in the space. Dust motes swirl in the disturbed air, catching the colorful beams of light streaming in through the stained glass windows.


The thick, musty air makes me cough, but I push on, taking cautious footsteps that echo off the vaulted ceiling as I make my way down the center aisle.


How long has it been since someone has been in here? A thick layer of dust covers the pews, and half-burned candles litter the altar and the windowsills.


When I step onto the altar, I search for anything else that might be hidden, but I don’t find much. Only a bible open on the podium. Curious, I pick a verse at random from the page it’s open to and read it aloud.


1 Peter 5:8


“Be alert and of sober mind. Your enemy the devil prowls around like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour.”


I can’t help it. I cackle, the sound bouncing off the walls of the church. Maybe someone should have warned me about that a few months ago. Then I might not be in the predicament I’m in now.


I shake my head in amusement and turn, speaking aloud as I stare at the crucifix on the wall. “Great joke, big guy.”


I’ve never really believed in God, but my newfound knowledge that the supernatural actually exists makes me wonder. To me, religion was always like the grown-up version of believing in Santa Clause—mostly harmless, a motivator to act with moral integrity, and a good way to control people because they believe an omniscient presence is always judging.


But if Ambrose is able to exist and prove that my assumptions have been wrong, it’s not impossible to think there may be some sort of deity out there. Hell, maybe Santa’s real too. Would anything really surprise me at this point? Probably not.


After scouring the church for anything else that might be of interest, I head back outside and meander through the cemetery. There’s a path leading around the back, and I follow it into the small maze of headstones that have become faded with time. Most of the dates of both life and death seem to come from the 1800s, and it makes me wonder how long this church has sat here forgotten and unoccupied.


If this is on Ambrose’s land, how long has he actually been here? I know he’s essentially immortal, but how long has he actually been doing this? It’s something that has crossed my mind, but I haven’t felt the burning need for an answer until now.


I trail my fingers across a faded name carved in the cold granite headstone—Emma, 1882 - 1975—and wonder what sort of life this woman lived. The 1800s seems like such a long time ago, but in the grand scheme of things, it’s just a tiny blip in time. I’ve been thinking about the grand scheme a lot more lately. Life and death, good and evil, immortality. If I think about it too much, it’ll overwhelm me, but I also can’t help but wonder after everything that’s come to light.


What sort of things lurk beneath the perception of humanity? Now that the supernatural side of life has been revealed, it's impossible not to wonder what other mysteries might be real.


So many questions have come up since I found out what Ambrose is that I can’t ignore them anymore. I don't particularly want to deal with his cocky attitude, but I can't turn down the opportunity to potentially learn more about the metaphysical side of life just because he takes delight in pissing me off.


As I make my way back to the house, following the path through the trees, I decide that if he can't be tolerable, maybe he can at least be educational. If I’m going to be stuck here for a while, I may as well learn what I can.


The sky is gray now, massive clouds obscuring the sunlight and the air still, as if the forest is holding its breath waiting for the rain to spill. In the distance, thunder rumbles across the mountains.


I’m about to walk through the back door of the cabin to find Ambrose and escape the impending storm when I notice a light shining from the massive detached garage behind the house. As I walk closer, I see that one of the two car port doors is open, and Ambrose is hunched over and focused intently on whatever he’s working on.


“What's all this about?” I ask, leaning against the doorframe as the smell of sawdust fills the air. There are pieces of wood everywhere in various states of finish. A pile of untouched two-by-fours is on the floor beneath the table, a dark, wooden dresser without drawers sits against the wall, and a heavy mahogany desk is in the center of the room where Ambrose leans over it.


He glances up and flashes me a smile. “I like to do some woodworking in my spare time. I go out every once in a while to auctions and buy old furniture that needs some work, then refinish it and sell it to a guy in town who owns a shop where he resells it.” He sets down the screwdriver he had been using to put handles back on the desk drawers. “I guess when you're essentially immortal, you've got to find some sort of hobbies.”


“You talk to people in town?” The information surprises me, though I'm not sure why. I suppose I imagined him living in complete isolation, like some sort of mystical hermit.


He chuckles. “I may not be entirely human, but I'm not Dracula.”


“When I first got here, the man who drove me said the devil lives in these woods. Would you happen to have anything to do with those rumors?”


The corners of his lips lift in a conspiratorial smile. “I might. Keeps people from getting too curious and snooping around.”


I step further into the garage, drawn by curiosity despite myself. “I want to know more about you.”


“Ah,” he says, a smirk spreading across his face. “I was wondering when you'd succumb to my charms.”


I roll my eyes. “That's not what I meant.”


He gestures to a rocking chair near the wall. “Take a seat and ask away, then.”


I settle into the chair, gently pushing my toes against the floor to rock back and forth as I watch him clean up.


Where do I even start? There's so much I want to know, so many questions that have been multiplying since I discovered what he is. The first thick raindrops tap against the tin roof.


“Were you born like this?” I ask. “Or is it some vampire type of thing where you were made immortal?”


His movements slow as he organizes tools in a drawer.


“The vampire thing isn’t too far off, I suppose. I was dying,” he states. “I don't remember all the details—though I'm sure that's by design—but I was given a choice to pass on or stay alive in this form. I chose this.”


“What do you mean you got a choice? How did that work?”


“I had a heart condition that I didn’t know about, and one day, it just gave out. I was only thirty eight when it happened. Everything went dark, but then I was in a sort of dream—only I knew it wasn’t a dream. There was a powerful presence there, and I know I spoke to It, but the conversation is hazy now as it was when I awoke. All I know is that It had given me the choice to return to this life, living it out for as long as I chose. But in order to continue living, I had to…” He pauses. “Well, you know that part.”


“So what, you spoke to God?” The shock in my tone is evident. This is even more unbelievable than I imagined it would be.


He shrugs. “I’m not really sure. Like I said, it's hazy, and a lot of the details are missing. Maybe God, maybe the Devil, maybe something in between. It's impossible to know.” He says it like he's talking about a conversation with a local farmer and not some omnipotent supernatural being that can bring people back to life.


“Why would you choose to stay alive?” The question slips past my lips before I realize it was meant to stay inside my head.


Ambrose’s dark eyes pierce me as he lowers himself into a chair about ten feet away. “Why not?”


“It’s one thing to not want to die because you’re worried there’s nothing after this.” Admittedly, that had been one of my biggest wonders when I thought about killing myself. Does anything come next, or am I just gone forever? I’ve never really believed in God, but apparently my lack of faith was misplaced according to what Ambrose is telling me. “But if you were given the choice between staying here and going to an afterlife, I just don’t understand why you’d choose to stay.”


“Call it curiosity,” he says, running his fingers along the armrest of the chair he’s in, seeming to examine the wood grain. “I wanted to experience life to the fullest before I gave up. There are so many simple pleasures in this life, and each day brings a new one.” He looks directly at me, and I avert my gaze. This is all too intense, and the way he examines at me makes it feel like he’s looking into my very soul.


“Plus, I'm not sure there is an afterlife,” he adds. “Just because there's some powerful being in the space between life and death doesn't necessarily mean there's a Heaven or Hell, or whatever else one might believe in. There are infinite possibilities, and that's just as scary as the idea that there's nothing at all.”


The storm accelerates, rain drumming against the roof and echoing through the room. With the car port open, the sudden rush of cool air blows through the garage carrying the earthy scent of petrichor. When the wind whips faster, raindrops dart into the garage, and Ambrose is forced to close the car port door to keep the wood pieces from getting wet.


The space suddenly feels more intimate as we’re shut in against the storm raging outside.


“I’m not sure how long this storm is supposed to last,” Ambrose says. “We either run inside now or chance getting stuck out here once the lightning starts.”


“Let’s go inside,” I suggest. Already, the air in the garage feels heavier without the cool breeze floating through it, and I’d rather be in the house if the storm is going to pick up.


Ambrose puts away the last of his tools, and we both stand at the door to the garage preparing to make the run to the back door of the house.


“Ready?” he asks, grinning.


“Ready.”


We sprint across the slick grass, cool rain pelting our skin and seeping into our clothes. Thunder rolls through the hills, closer now, and we stumble through the back door, breathless and smiling.


The air conditioning on my damp skin raises goosebumps across my arms.


“Would you like to join me in the living room?” Ambrose asks.


I nod and follow him down the hallway, grabbing a blanket from the back of the couch and wrapping it around my shoulders before sitting.


“What other questions do you have?”


I think for a moment. “Have you done any jobs in your life besides selling your furniture and wood stuff?”


“I have. Believe it or not, I initially went to college and double majored in English Literature and Philosophy. I was a teacher at a small college for a handful of years, I worked as a ghostwriter for many well-known authors, I did physical labor in some places.”


Well, that explains the books. And the mind games. And the muscles.


“How long have you been alive?”


He hesitates before answering, “I was born in the 1880s.”


My eyes widen. Holy shit. Almost one hundred and fifty years. It takes me a moment to regain my composure to ask my next question.


“So, if you’re technically immortal, do you ever get sick? What happens if someone tries to hurt you?”


“I don’t get sick,” he answers, “and I’m not sure what the limitations are for physical injuries, though I’d prefer not to find out. My artifact—the necklace—serves as a protective item, but I have never been seriously hurt enough to know if it would protect me from something like, say, a gunshot. Cuts and such heal exceedingly quickly, though.”


Thunder booms outside, rattling the windows, and I glance out the large picture window just in time to see lightning crack against the purple-gray thunderclouds, illuminating the landscape for a fraction of a second with its jagged white light.


Raindrops hurl against the windows, and I simply stare at the awe-inspiring sight of the heavy storm surging over the land. There’s nothing more captivating and formidable than a late summer thunderstorm in the south.


“Do you have any other questions?” Ambrose asks.


“I don’t think so.” I do, but they’ve all managed to leave my thoughts. I’ll be stuck here with him for many more days, though, so I’m sure I’ll have more time to pester him with my curiosity.


“Well, in that case, I’m going to start making dinner. I hope our conversation was enlightening.” He flashes a sardonic smile in my direction, but there’s a sincerity to the smile that he tries to hide.


He wasn’t as insufferable as usual, I think, then immediately correct myself by reasoning that I’m probably suffering from some Stockholm Syndrome bullshit.


As I head up to my bedroom to change into drier clothes, my head spins with newfound information that I have no idea what to do with.


However, it is fascinating to have some sort of confirmation of the fact that a deity exists, even if the idea that God—or something God-adjacent—exists is enough to throw me into an existential crisis.


Just one more thing to come to terms with in the chaos that my life has become.



OceanofPDF.com

c1H5





CHAPTER 17


AMBROSE

September


Brielle’s curiosity has begun to overshadow her hatred for me, and it’s more of a relief than I care to admit. She’s still hesitant, constantly assessing my words and actions, but she’s begun to open up ever so slightly. I’m not delusional enough to presume that she feels fondly toward me, but her willingness to ask me questions is a good sign.


It seems as if we’ve reached a sort of truce. She’s still frequently frustrated with me and with the situation she’s trapped in, which only causes the guilt to grip me harder, but it’s a tradeoff I’m willing to take.


I hadn’t realized how much I’ve missed having the company of another person, particularly one as intriguing as Brielle.


She still struggles with her mental health and the lingering effects from the abuse, though she attempts to hide her pain, as if her being broken is by some fault of her own rather than a failure of those who were supposed to love and protect her.


But in the process of beginning to fulfill our bargain, she also seems to be regaining a sense of self she lost long ago. She’s finding strength in taking back the power that was stolen from her. I had hoped, deep down, that this is exactly what would happen when I had concocted this bargain.


Where she would once hide and make herself small, she is now gaining the courage to take up space and make decisions on her own behalf, to snap back at my agitating comments instead of cowering in silence. I’ll admit that I frequently push her to frustration only to see that fire light in her.


Maybe I should be concerned by the fact that murdering a man in cold blood seems to have empowered her, but that would make me a hypocrite when I’ve felt that same sense of justice and empowerment after killing men for much less.


I shouldn’t allow myself to get close to her. In fact, I actively attempt to keep her irritated with me, because I know all too well the consequences of caring for someone like her. However, I got myself into this predicament, and as the days pass, I’m finding it more and more difficult to resist her. Every day, she surprises me.


It’s been a very long time since I’ve been surprised, yet here I am, waking up every morning wondering what the day has in store. I had almost forgotten what joy spontaneity brings.


I didn’t notice how complacent I’d gotten until I found her.


She frequently gets lost in thought or disappears to her room for long periods of time, but she’s slowly opening up. She’s become more intentional with her actions, more curious about what she can do with the power she’s been given. It’s like she’s been so subdued for so long that she’s just now discovering who she could be rather than who she’s been told to be.


It’s a beautiful thing to witness.



OceanofPDF.com

c1HX





CHAPTER 18


Ifind myself drifting into the living room after dinner, drawn in by the soft glow of the TV and, oddly enough, Ambrose's presence. He's sprawled on the couch, remote in hand, flipping through channels. With it being one of the first cool nights as summer gives way to fall, he has lit a fire in the fireplace, and it casts the room in a soft, orange glow.


“Mind if I join?” I ask, hovering in the doorway.


“Not at all.”


He continues skimming the channels before settling on the news. I groan, but at least it's a reputable station, unlike the sensationalist garbage Joel used to watch.


The leather couch creaks as I adjust, making sure to keep as much distance as possible between us. The news anchor's voice fills the room, and as much as I’d like to zone out, it might be good for me to see what’s been happening in the weeks I’ve been disconnected from the world.


It’s the typical sort of news content: the weather, crime, politics, and one positive story amidst the onslaught of negativity.


A story about a local pastor catches my attention. Apparently, he's under investigation for taking advantage of elderly members of the church, somehow gaining control of their properties and assets before they die then using the monetary value to his advantage. Despite this, he's still allowed to preach on Sundays, and his hearing isn’t for another month.


The camera cuts to him standing outside with a small brick church in the background. “God is guiding me through this journey,” he says. “These are difficult times, but I trust in His plan and that He will show us the path forward.”


Following his pious, self-righteous bullshit is a middle-aged woman with tears in her eyes, explaining how Pastor Gary Delaney managed to convince her late grandmother, who had been showing signs of dementia before she passed, to leave him many of her assets.


My fingers dig into the leather of the couch. If God is real—and according to Ambrose, some kind of higher power definitely exists—hopefully there's a special place in Hell for people like that. Men who stand on pulpits preaching virtue while living lives of calculated, intentional greed.


An idea begins to materialize in my mind. If this pastor is guilty, if he's been preying on vulnerable people who trusted him…


I might have another target on my hands. I could do my due diligence, question him (likely through unconventional means), and figure out whether or not he’s truly guilty. It’s only right to have a confession before atoning for your sins.


Before I can explore that train of thought further, the news shifts to the next story. My blood runs cold as I recognize the face on the screen—the bartender I killed.


“A local man was found dead this past weekend outside of his workplace. Jake O’Connor, a 31-year-old bartender at DJ’s Tavern, was found by his coworker in the alley behind DJ’s in the middle of his shift Friday night. Police are still looking for information related to death and believe foul play may be involved.”


The camera pans to a woman, presumably his mother, with tears streaming down her face as she speaks about what a kind, loving boy he was. “He always knew how to make everyone smile,” she says, sniffling and wiping her eyes with a tissue clutched in her hand.


My heart sinks.


A man about his age speaks next. “We were supposed to go on a camping trip next month that we do every year with a few of our friends. We all grew up together, same classes in elementary school and everything, but now it’s just—” he hides his sob in a feigned cough.


“Turn it off.” My voice comes out strangled.


I expect some sarcastic comment from Ambrose, some reminder that this was my choice, but he clicks off the TV without a word. The silence is a weight on my chest, suffocating me second by painful second.


In the quiet, doubt creeps in. Was what I did that wrong? I thought I was doing something at least moderately good—if I kill one man who would have hurt dozens of women, that's a net positive, right? But I didn't consider the ripple effect it would have on those who loved him. Even terrible people have mothers and fathers and best friends. Those people don’t deserve to experience the pain of someone they love.


But at what point does the harm one person would cause outweigh someone else’s pain of losing them?


It’s all so fucking complicated.


His family and friends will be grieving for the rest of their lives, and it’s all my fault. I killed him, and I’ll have to live with the knowledge that I’ve ruined a family for the rest of my bitter existence.


“Would you care for another form of entertainment?” Ambrose asks, breaking the silence.


I glance at the clock on the wall. It’s only 7. Not late enough for me to fall asleep.


“What did you have in mind?”


“Here, come with me.” He stands and offers me his hand. I don’t take it, instead pushing my weight up from the couch and watching his arm awkwardly fall to his side.


I follow him into the adjacent room—his study. Or library. When he stops in the middle of the room and turns to look at me, I raise an eyebrow in a silent question.


He gestures broadly to the bookshelves that line the wall and stretch from floor to ceiling. The spines of countless books create a mosaic of colors and textures, some worn with age, others crisp and new.


“Reading?”


“Why not?”


“I need to be able to focus in order to read. Also, you know there's this cool thing called the internet that exists now, right? You don't need to collect thousands of physical books.” The sarcasm helps mask the lingering unease from our earlier conversation, gives me something familiar to hide behind.


He smirks. “I have internet here. But there's something about holding a book in your hands that makes reading more magical than simply staring at a screen.”


“Wait, you have internet connection here? You mean to tell me I could have been keeping myself entertained in ways that don't involve staring out windows or walking in the woods?”


“In theory. But you don't have a device, and I try to keep my time online to a minimum.”


I roll my eyes, slumping back against the couch. “You would.”


“Suit yourself. Be bored, then.” He shrugs and picks up a book from the coffee table, the leather binding smooth and well-worn. He gestures to the wall of shelves again in offering before sinking into an armchair and cracking open the dark green, leather-bound book.


I stare at him until I realize he’s not going to speak any more, but instead of picking up a book of my own, I ask, “What are you reading?”


He lifts his gaze to where I’m still standing in the middle of the room. “Poetry.”


I snort, then realize he's being serious. The thought of this dark, intimidating man reading poetry is ridiculous. “You're reading poetry? Seriously?”


“What’s wrong with that?”


“You don't strike me as the poetry type.”


“And what type would that be?" His long fingers wrap around the book as if he’s holding something fragile, and I pretend not to notice the way he seems to almost caress the edges of the cover.


“Oh, I don't know. Empathetic, in tune with their emotions, not committing frequent acts of murder…”


“To be fair, some of the best poets have been ones known for their debauchery.” His lips quirk up at the corners, and for a moment, I can almost forget what he is. What we both are.


“Whatever.” I wave him off, trying to ignore the way the firelight catches in his eyes, turning them into burning coals. “So what poems are you reading then?”


“This one happens to be a personal collection of some of my favorites.”


“But why wouldn’t you read a real book? Like something with a story?”


“Some of these do have a story,” he retorts.


I can’t say I’m an expert on poetry—probably because I actively avoid it as much as possible in favor of actual books—but I can’t imagine there’s any world where reading a poem would be more fun than picking up a fiction novel.


Ambrose must be able to tell that I’m not at all convinced, because he goes on. “Poetry is a lot more than what you might think,” he explains. “And I’d be willing to bet there’s some you’d enjoy.”


“I don’t know about all that. ‘Tolerate’ may be a better word than ‘enjoy.’”


“Well, there’s only one way to find out,” he says, his eyes gleaming with the challenge. “Let me read you this one.” His deft fingers immediately begin flipping through the pages, with him clearly having a certain poem in mind.


“Ugh, what did I do to deserve such torture?” I say with a dramatic flourish, even as I sit down on floor next to the fireplace and snag a blanket from the couch to wrap around my shoulders.


“If you hate it, I’ll never say a word about poetry to you again.”


“Deal.”


He clears his throat. “This one is called The Highwayman by Alfred Noyes.”


His voice is low but clear over the sound of the crackling fire.




“The wind was a torrent of darkness among the gusty trees.

The moon was a ghostly galleon tossed upon cloudy seas.

The road was a ribbon of moonlight over the purple moor,

And the highwayman came riding⁠—

Riding—riding⁠—

The highwayman came riding, up to the old inn-door.”


I want to close my eyes as I listen, the words painting a picture of a man meeting a woman in secret while a bright, full moon lights up the dark night. But instead of closing my eyes, I watch Ambrose read, his gaze cast downward and a loose strand of dark hair falling over his forehead, the fire illuminating one side of his face with a soft orange glow. In the poem, the forbidden lovers speak, the highwayman telling the woman⁠—




“One kiss, my bonny sweetheart, I’m after a prize to-night,

But I shall be back with the yellow gold before the morning light;

Yet, if they press me sharply, and harry me through the day,

Then look for me by moonlight,

Watch for me by moonlight,

I’ll come to thee by moonlight, though hell should bar the way.”


Ambrose reads, and surprisingly, I’m enraptured by the story of the poem. Forbidden love, danger, and fatal sacrifice. When he reaches the end, the repetition of the lines from the beginning now full of despair instead of hope, my chest tightens with unexpected emotion. I let out a slow breath, the silence in the room only broken by the soft thump of him shutting the book.


“So? What do you think?” he asks softly.


Fuck, he was right about the fact that I’d like it. That was incredible. “It was good,” I admit, but my voice cracks.


He smiles softly, not in a smug I-told-you-so sort of way, but in a proud, satisfied way. I can’t help but smile back. This is the first moment since I’ve been in this house that I feel like I’m almost able to relax.


The moment stretches between us, delicate as a spider's web and just as fragile. The firelight dances across his features, softening the sharp edges that usually define him, and I find myself studying the way shadows play across his face. In this moment, something seems to have shifted between us, and I’m afraid if I move or speak, I’ll break the spell.


He's still holding the book, his thumb absently stroking its leather spine, and the gentleness of the gesture is at odds with everything I know about him. The same hands that have surely ended countless lives now cradle these pages like they're something precious.


The fire crackles, sending a shower of sparks up the chimney, and I pull the blanket tighter around my shoulders. The warmth seeps into my bones, and I close my eyes for a few seconds, savoring the simple comfort.


When I open my eyes, he’s staring directly at me, and I quickly look away. He may not be a good man by any stretch, but there’s a humanity in him that I haven’t seen until today.


That almost scares me more than his darkness.


I should move, should break this spell before it takes root too deeply. But the fire is warm, and the poetry still echoes in my mind, and for just this moment, I want to pretend that I’m not his captive, but instead that we're just two people sharing a peaceful evening.


“What got you into reading poetry?” I ask.


“I’ve always loved reading, so I read a little bit of everything when I was younger. But poetry is beautiful because it allows someone to say so much in so few words. Every word, every line, every stanza is a precise sort of beauty.”


“That makes sense, I suppose.” I stand to examine the titles on his shelves more closely, but my eyes are drawn to a shelf with a clear, locked casing that contains dozens of notebooks. “What’s the deal with the notebooks?” I ask, pointing toward the case.


“Another hobby I’ve had for a very long time,” he says. “I’ve kept a journal since my twenties, before I became this way, and I’ve continued to keep one since.”


Wow. One hundred years of journals chronicling his life up to this point. My curiosity burns. What I’d give to read those, to have a peek inside the mind of this enigmatic man.


“Can I read them?”


“No.”


“That’s what you do with that leather notebook, isn’t it?”


“Yes.”


“What do you write about?”


“Everything.”


I roll my eyes. “Thanks for the clarification.”


“You’re welcome to read anything else in here, though. I know you’ve already been sneaking some books when I haven’t been around.”


My cheeks warm. “I’ve had to keep myself entertained somehow, and the door is always open.”


He chuckles. “That’s fine.”


“Have you lived here your entire life?” I ask. The massive collection of books would suggest so, but I can’t imagine living for so long and staying in one place.


“No. This has been my home since I was a young man, but I’ve lived in many places over the years—England, Italy, Spain, and all over the United States. This is simply the place I consider to be my true home, so I always end up coming back. Since I don’t age, I have to leave here every twenty years or so, and stay away long enough that the townspeople don’t start to get suspicious.”


“That makes sense. But I guess I don’t really get that feeling. Nowhere has ever really felt like home for me,” I admit.


“Why do you think that is?”


“I don’t know. They’re just places I’ve lived, but none of them have ever given me that sense of comfort I’d want from a home. Though I’m sure that has to do with the fact that I’ve never been truly wanted in any of those places, either. I went straight from living with parents who didn’t want me to living with a husband who only wanted me for the power it gave him.”


“I’m sorry to hear that,” he says, his eyes flashing with something soft and understanding.


“It’s okay. I’ll find my home eventually,” I say, desperate to believe that’s true. After I’m able to leave here, I’ll find a place to call my own and turn it into the home I’ve never had.


Maybe then, I’ll be able to put this all in my past. I can only hope the future will be kinder to me.



OceanofPDF.com

c1NK





CHAPTER 19


I’ve been exploring the woods surrounding the house more often, following small paths and game trails, but each time I’m drawn to the abandoned church. There’s something about the sacred atmosphere surrounding it that allows me to think about the things I’m too afraid to consider when I’m alone in my bed at night.


Here, considerations of good and evil, life and death, don’t seem too overwhelming. This place was meant to bear the weight of existential thoughts.


I wrap my arms around my torso in an attempt to shield myself from the cool breeze. Summer has slipped away, and autumn has crept in. The leaves have begun to turn from deep, vivid green to pale gold and orange. It’s always been my favorite time of the year. There’s a beauty in the way nature fades slowly in its temporary death, only to be reborn in the spring.


I’m just about to round the last bend of the trail when my skin prickles, some primal instinct immediately setting me on edge. It takes a moment for me to realize what causes it. The woods have gone completely silent. No chirping crickets or cicadas, no birds calling in the distance, no animals rustling through the underbrush.


Nothing.


An eerie, unsettling paranoia falls over me, and I glance over my shoulder, suddenly sure that someone is watching me.


Then, in the terrifying silence, a low whistle pierces through the trees.


My mother’s words from when I was a child surface in my mind. It’s a warning most kids in Appalachia have heard: “If you hear a whistle in the woods, pretend you didn’t, and calmly walk the other way.”


Once I got older, I realized it was likely a warning meant to avoid the moonshiners and growers hiding out in the mountains, not some mysterious supernatural force.


But now, I’m doubting every assumption I made. The forest doesn’t go silent from human presence.


I slow my steps as I round the bend, and as the church comes into view, so do two figures standing at the end of the trail. They’re both facing me, waiting for me.


My heart lurches into my throat, and I’m all too aware that I have nothing to defend myself with out here. I don’t even have the necklace on, though I’m not sure it would help me out here, anyway.


I cautiously approach the two men, who are unnaturally still and calm.


It’s only when I’m close enough to see their faces that I notice they give off the same inhuman beauty Ambrose does. But while their features mimic his in the sharp angles and unnatural beauty, the resemblance ends there. Both are wearing white and beige clothing that doesn’t look entirely out of place in front of this church, and their expressions are kind, though the taller one shifts on his feet like he’s nervous. The shorter one is only a couple inches taller than me, and his white-blonde hair, blue eyes, and perfectly straight teeth fixed in a smile all seem unnaturally bright.


They seem friendly, but their presence still sets me on edge. The stillness of the forest is uncanny.


“Who are you?” I ask cautiously.


“I’m Samuel,” the blonde one says, then gestures to the taller man with tanned skin and dark hair. “And this is Elias.”


Elias gives me a hesitant wave.


They don’t ask me who I am.


“Why are you here?” I ask.


“We’re angels. We’ve been sent here to warn you and offer you a deal.”


A deal. Those two words echo in my head, a reminder of why I’m stuck here in the first place. Maybe their admission to being angels should placate me, but something about their presence keeps me agitated. It could be because that they’re supernatural beings and I’m a human, considering the similarity to how I felt when seeing Ambrose for the first time. I don’t feel that nervous humming beneath my skin with Ambrose anymore, but maybe it’s simply because I’ve become accustomed to his presence.


Speaking of… “I thought angels and demons weren’t separate entities.”


Samuel frowns. “What would make you think that?”


“I was told that it’s all part of mythology that derives from the existence of immortals, that you’re all collectively called Liminals, and the only difference is the powers that you have.” I avoid saying Ambrose’s name, though I’m not quite sure why.


He gives me a pitying look. “Ambrose told you that.” It’s not a question, but a statement. Still, he’s looking for confirmation.


I nod.


“It makes sense that he would try to convince you of that. He’s attempting to sway you, to give you some semblance of comfort because he does not want you to realize who you’ve made a bargain with. There is a reason that there are so many stories around these mountains that warn against making a deal with the devil.”


My heart sinks. There’s no way… “Are you telling me that Ambrose is the devil?”


“Not quite,” he answers with a chuckle, mindlessly fiddling with a small pocket watch at his waist. “But he may as well be. He’s taken the gift he’s been given and used it for evil instead of good. The difference between angels and demons is not in how we are created, but what we do with the gifts The Creator has given us.”


With each second that passes, each word that comes from his mouth, the panic in my chest grows. Is the situation I’ve found myself in even worse than I thought? Have I been consorting with someone much more evil than I had assumed?


“How do I know you’re telling the truth?” I manage to ask despite the knot in my throat.


Samuel raises his hand, palm facing upward, and a ball of pure, white light grows before my eyes. I blink a few times to make sure I’m not hallucinating.


“Each of us is given a different set of powers. I was bestowed the gift of light. Elias here possesses the power of healing. Both are good, honorable abilities we have been entrusted with. Now think about it for a moment; What does Ambrose use his gift for? Manipulation, obscurity, trickery, and avoiding perception. Does that not say enough about his character?”


With every word he speaks, my heart sinks. It makes sense that Ambrose would take advantage of my ignorance and use it to make himself seem less malevolent.


Not only have I been manipulated, but I was stupid enough to fall for it yet again. The other night, it had almost seemed like Ambrose and I had shared a moment of understanding, that some sort of companionship had passed between us, but how real can our connection be if it was all built on lies and trickery in the first place? I had allowed myself to forget how I got into this situation. I can’t let that happen again.


Still, I don’t trust these angels entirely. My gut is telling me to be cautious. “So what do you want from me? You said you wanted to warn me and offer me a deal.”


“Well, that depends on how much you know. Are you aware of how he maintains his immortality?”


“Yes, he told me. Is it different for you?” I can’t help but ask. Even despite the growing ache in my chest, curiosity wins over.


“It is not different.”


“How are you any better than him, then?”


“We are much more deliberate about the lives we take, only taking what we need, whereas he does so with reckless abandon. Ambrose enjoys the hunt, manipulating one’s emotions before taking everything away from them. It’s a game to him rather than an unfortunate necessity. But surely you know that by now.”


The words are a blade through my chest. It’s not like I didn’t know that’s what he was doing with me, so why does it still hurt so much? I’ve had weeks to come to terms with it.


But I suppose that no matter how much time you have to get over it, being betrayed by someone you thought would save you will always be devastating. Giving someone hope before breaking them is infinitely more vicious than simply hurting them from the start.


I need to be careful. I’ve started to let my guard down with Ambrose, though maybe that’s been part of his plan all along. Lull me into a false sense of security so I can continue to do his bidding.


When the angels realize I’m not going to respond, Samuel speaks again. The other man hasn’t spoken once.


“You asked what we want from you. All we need is information.”


“And what do I get in return?” I ask, although I’m hesitant to make any sort of deal with another supernatural being.


“A secret for a secret. Ambrose has told you many lies that we can expose, some of which may be relevant to whatever deal you made with him. There may be a loophole.”


I wonder how much they know.


“You’re in a position where you can help us,” he continues. “He’s dangerous, and by helping us, you can make this corner of the world a safer place.”


“How would you know about the lies he’s told me if you don’t know about the conditions of our deal in the first place?” I assume angels wouldn’t be asking for my help if they knew what sort of sins I’ve already committed.


They exchange a weighted look, and Elias speaks for the first time. His voice is softer than Samuel’s. “He has been known to manipulate helpless women by any means possible. He will say whatever he needs to to ensure you don’t leave, call for help, or otherwise mess up his plans.” He runs his fingers through his dark curls, clearly uncomfortable.


“What do you want to know?” I ask. I can almost taste the bitterness in my voice. Of course I’m not the first one he’s done this to.


“Each of us has an artifact that allows us to channel our powers and increase our lifespans. Have you noticed any sort of item that he keeps on his person?”


The necklace. But for some reason, my instincts are telling me to keep the information to myself. At least for now.


“I’m not sure,” I lie. “I haven’t been paying much attention to anything like that.”


“It may look like a perfectly normal item or accessory, but no matter how inconspicuous it may look, it is an item of both protection and power.”


“What do you plan on doing with it?”


“We simply need to get the item from him to dull his power. He likely has dozens, if not hundreds, of lifetimes left that he’s already collected. He will not die, but he will not be able to benefit from taking any more lives.”


“I’ll keep an eye out for it.”


“In return,” Samuel says, “we can help you get away from him without causing you harm.”


It’s a tempting offer. Freedom, and the ability to run away from this place. But that doesn’t solve all my issues with Joel, and I’d still have no money and no place to go. Right now, I don’t think it’s wise to make any more bargains with supernatural beings.


“Meet us here again in exactly three weeks. We will wait in this same spot, just before sunset. Do whatever you need to in order to learn what his artifact is. We will see you then.”


With that, they walk across the small clearing and behind the church, disappearing into the woods. As soon as they’re out of sight, the forest comes alive again with rustling trees and buzzing cicadas and singing birds, as if I’ve been surrounded by a silent bubble that’s popped with their departure.


The tightness in my chest loosens slightly, and I take the first deep breath I’ve been able to take since I saw them lurking in the distance.


Instead of exploring the church more, like I had planned to do on my way out here, I turn around and walk back to Ambrose’s house with conflict whirling through my head.


He’s done nothing but manipulate me since I got here. So why am I struggling so much with the idea of selling him out?



OceanofPDF.com

c1S1





CHAPTER 20


The sound of power tools echoes across the yard from the garage, so I slip into the house unseen and shut myself in my bedroom. But I can’t relax. The wooden floorboards creak under my feet as I pace the room.


The more I think about it, the angrier I become. I’m just another pawn in whatever fucked up game he’s playing, and I was stupid to believe the display of emotion he showed me the other night. Every time I think I’m calming down, I’m hit with another pang of betrayal.


It was stupid of me to think I was special in any way, and it was even dumber of me to feel special because he… he what? Chose me as the special woman to manipulate into murdering for him? Oh yeah, that’s what every woman wants.


Jesus, I’m a mess.


I flop onto the bed.


But I need to play this safe and avoid suspicion while I figure out why I didn’t just fuck him over the first chance I had. He deserves it, after all. He targeted me, hunted me, and lured me here to do his dirty work. I need to remember that.


He’s a demon, or at least something close to it. His entire schtick is to be the charming trickster, just like in all those old myths and stories about the devil, and I can’t allow myself to keep falling for it.


And even though I felt on edge around the angels, the more I think about it, the more it makes sense. It’s only natural that a human would feel on edge around supernatural beings, especially ones that appeared unexpectedly in the middle of the forest with a backdrop of a decrepit church. There’s probably some scientific explanation about why my body reacted in the way it did. Plus, people in the Bible were terrified when angels appeared then even though they were the good guys, right? It’s probably the same sort of thing.


Also, the angels wouldn’t have a reason to want to take away Ambrose’s power unless it was to protect people. It’s not like there’s a shortage of human lives to take, and therefore there’d be no competition. The world is overpopulated as it is, and there can’t be that many angels or demons or “Liminals” out there.


He’s playing a multi-level game of deception, but what he doesn’t know is that I can play that game right back. The only difference is, I’m aware of his moves while he thinks I’m ignorant. But I’ll make sure he’s not aware of mine.


I’d almost be tempted to take him out and sacrifice myself in the process, but I’m determined to stay alive now, even if only out of spite. I was fine with killing myself before, but there’s no way I’m giving up now.


I thought that happiness would be the thing to drag me from the depths of my despair and allow me to feel something again, but it’s not.


It’s pure, unadulterated rage.





That evening, after I’ve had time to simmer in my anger, I force myself to calm down and put on a neutral expression before heading downstairs for dinner. One thing I’ve learned over the course of the last few weeks is that Ambrose enjoys cooking on top of his many other hobbies. It’s also clear that he takes his gardening seriously after my discovery of his labeled mason jars in the pantry and vacuum-sealed bags in the freezer containing various vegetables and herbs. Every night, I can count on him to make dinner, which I’ll admit is a nice change from my previous routine back in my own home. It’s certainly not enough to make up for all the terrible things he’s done, but it makes my hatred of him slightly more tolerable.


I sit down at the dining room table, my back to the wall so I can face the kitchen. Ambrose’s hair is wet—he must have showered after finishing his work in the garage earlier—and though he’s brushed it back, the thick, dark strands curve around his ears and fall over his forehead the more he moves.


“Do you just go grocery shopping like a normal person for the food that you don’t grow?” I ask.


He briefly glances up from the cutting board where he’s chopping a bell pepper. “Yes. What else would I do?”


“I don’t know, kill animals with your bare hands for meat, probably,” I deadpan. In any case, it’s almost comical to imagine him walking the aisles of a grocery store, tossing prepackaged cheese and meat into the cart.


“Where do you get the money?”


“I’ve saved up quite a bit of money over the years, both from working for it and from stealing it from those who don’t deserve their riches.”


I snort. “Okay, Robin Hood.”


I’m pretty sure he smiles, but I can’t be sure because he turns to grab something from the fridge just as his lips twitch.


“These days, though, I mostly make money from selling my wood carvings and the furniture I refurbish.”


“Right.” I remember him saying that in the garage.


He continues to cook, sautéing various vegetables with chicken until he brings two plates of food to the table and sets one before me.


“Thanks.”


We’re about halfway through the meal when Ambrose clears his throat and says, “I’ll require your presence at an event this Saturday.”


I pause with my fork mid-air. “What kind of event?”


“A masquerade. Sort of like a pre-Halloween social thing. There will be a lot of important people there, and I need a date.”


“No.”


He cocks his head, his brow furrowed. “Why not?”


“I may have agreed to a deal with you, but it did not involve going to events as your date.”


“It’s at a beautiful mansion in the mountains, and you don’t have to dance,” he reasons. “I just need you there for show. I’ll handle all the details, down to your outfit.”


“Still no.” If he thinks I’m going to help him out by being arm candy to make him look good, he’s delusional.


“I’ll knock fifty years off our bargain if you go with me.”


I pause. Now that is tempting.


“One hundred.”


He smirks. “Seventy-five.”


Locking eyes with him, I take a sip of water, forcing him to wait a few seconds for my answer. Anything to get under his skin.


“Deal.”



OceanofPDF.com

c1TR





CHAPTER 21


I’m going to kill him.


The slip of fabric hanging in my closet can barely be considered a dress, let alone one I’m expected to wear in public. At this point, I may as well go to this ball in lingerie. It might cover more.


But despite my growing irritation, I can’t help but slide the silky fabric through my fingers. It’s a deep purple-red, like a dark, heavy wine, and it seems to absorb the light rather than reflect it.


Fuck it, I can at least try it on.


After tossing aside my normal clothes, I step into the dress and slide it up over my torso, slipping my arms into the spaghetti straps on either side.


The bodice is tight and subtly flares out just as it meets my hips, though there’s a slit along my right leg that’s downright scandalous. And if that weren’t enough, the neckline plunges in a deep v with the point stopping an inch below my breasts.


Of course this is the dress he’d pick out for me—not something even semi-modest that will allow me to blend in. He probably knew I’d be uncomfortable showing this much skin and bought it to spite me.


The worst part is, I don’t hate it. I swish back and forth in the mirror, watching the hemline skirt across the floor, and look at myself from the side and behind.


I don’t look half-bad, actually.


And if he’s forcing me to go to this event anyway, I may as well make the most of it. Plus, I don’t have another formal dress here, so I have to wear this one. That’s what I’m telling myself to justify this, anyway.


There’s a double-breasted black coat hanging in the closet as well, so that will help cover me for a little while—at least until we’re in public and Ambrose and I won’t be alone together.


I take off the dress, not wanting to accidentally spill makeup on it, and situate myself in front of my mirror. The clock on the wall shows I still have an hour to get ready, so I take my time doing my makeup and twisting my hair up into an elegant updo.


By the time I slip the dress back on, I have to admit, I look pretty damn good. And I don’t have to worry about wearing that damn necklace tonight, either.


With a few minutes to spare, I slip on the new coat and grab the black heels Ambrose had set beneath my dress, carrying them downstairs since there’s no way I’d manage to make it down the steps without breaking an ankle.


“You look absolutely radiant,” Ambrose praises once I reach the landing.


I turn to face him, and he’s standing in the living room straightening his tie. It takes every ounce of willpower I have not to ogle him. He’s dressed in an all-black suit, including the shirt beneath, and the only color in his attire is a blood-red tie that matches my dress.


“You don’t look too terrible, either,” I mumble.


His laugh is low and rich, like he knows exactly what I’m thinking—that he perfectly encompasses the look of a handsome, tempting devil.


“I think that’s the nicest compliment I’ve ever gotten from you.”


I roll my eyes and turn toward the front door, mostly to keep him out of eyesight so I don’t allow my thoughts to wander about how handsome he looks. “Are you ready? Let’s get this night over with.”


“Patience, pet. Give me one more moment.”


“I’m not your pet.”


He doesn’t respond, but his footsteps recede into his bedroom before he returns and offers me the black lace mask in his hand. “The last part of your outfit,” he says. “It is a masquerade, after all.”


I snatch it from his outstretched palm and slip my heels on, then risk a glance at him. His dark hair is perfectly tousled, draped slightly over his forehead in a way that looks effortless but probably took a while to perfect.


Ambrose’s eyes glint with mischief at my stare.


“After you,” he says as he opens the front door.


I step outside into the frigid autumn air and rush to the car. It’s barely past 6 p.m., but the sun is already setting behind the mountains, painting the sky in shades of orange that fade into gray.


Ambrose slides into the driver’s seat a few seconds later, and in minutes we’re winding through the serpentine mountain roads toward our destination.


Thankfully, Ambrose doesn’t seem to be in much of a talking mood. We’re both silent for most of the drive, until an hour has passed and my curiosity grows stronger.


“Where exactly are we going?”


“A charity gala. It’s at a mansion out in the mountains not far from Asheville.”


“Have you been here before?”


“Yes, this event happens every year. The man who hosts it is the founder of a large tech company, but he has a lot of important connections in business and government.”


“So why are you invited?” The question isn’t meant to sound rude, but I can’t help but wonder why Ambrose would be going to an exclusive party with tech moguls and government officials. He may be immortal, but he also lives in a small cabin in the woods and generally seems to avoid society.


“As you know, I’ve been around a long time and have my ways of… persuasion. I’m pretty sure most of them are convinced I’m a member of the CIA or something similar,” he chuckles. “The rumors usually go back to something secretive involving the government, which is exactly what I hope for, because then it makes sense to them that I can’t reveal much about my job. I stay on their radars just enough to continue to receive invitations, but not enough that they can pry into my life.”


“Smart. But why do you go to things like this in the first place? You don’t exactly strike me as the high society social type.”


I catch Ambrose’s subtle smile in my periphery. “Going to events like this helps me know what’s happening behind closed doors. I like to be informed about who and what to keep an eye on. And as surprising as it may be, I don’t mind being in social environments from time to time. When you’ve lived as long as I have, you find ways to keep life interesting.”


Like forcing random women into magical bargains where they can’t escape you, I think, but I say nothing.


When Ambrose pulls into a driveway half an hour later, my eyebrows shoot up. Holy shit. He wasn’t lying when he said it was a mansion. The stone building towers over the front lawn, and the semi-circle driveway is lined with flickering lanterns. Warm, yellow light shines through the windows, and silhouettes from those inside cast shadows on the grass.


Ambrose parks alongside a long row of cars that probably cost more than everything I’ve ever owned in my life times one thousand.


“This is insane,” I say.


“It’s a beautiful estate,” Ambrose agrees as he shuts off the car and slips his keys into his pocket. Understatement of the century. “Do you have your mask?”


I lift it, secure the strap behind my head, then pull down the mirror to glance at my reflection. The elegant Venetian-style design covers only the area around my eyes and curves up to points on either side of my face, but it grants me a slight comfort in the anonymity it provides, even though I’m certain I won’t know anyone here.


I’ve barely opened my car door when Ambrose appears in front of me in his own matching mask—though slightly more masculine in its design—holding out his hand to help me step out.


I begrudgingly take it.


“Shall we?” He asks, offering me his arm once I’ve shut my door behind me. When I simply glare at him, he says, “If we’re going to be convincing tonight, I need you to act like you like me.”


“Fine.” I wrap my hand around his arm just above the crook of his elbow, trying not to think about the swell of his bicep under my fingers or the way I suddenly feel invincible with him by my side in our matching black and red attire.


“Why am I here again?” I whisper as we approach the massive double doors at the front of the mansion. I ask not only because of the fact that Ambrose could definitely handle all of this on his own, but also because I already know I won’t fit in with the type of people who attend charity galas in fancy mansions.


“Because having you here will make it easier for me to find the information I need. And because you look exquisite on my arm.”


His praise, as insincere as it may be, still stirs something dark inside of me. I’m about to ask more about how me being here will help his cause, but the front door opens before I have the chance.


The man on the other side is briefly startled by our proximity, but he quickly regains his composure and shoves the pack of cigarettes he’s holding back into his pocket.


“Ambrose! I was wondering if you’d be attending.” He claps Ambrose on the shoulder as if they’re best friends, and it reminds me of the way Brett used to greet Joel.


“Nice to see you again, Mordecai.”


The man—Mordecai—shifts his attention to me.


“And who’s this lovely lady you’ve brought with you?” He asks, not looking away from my masked face.


Ambrose wraps an arm around my waist, and I resist the urge to pull away. “This is my girlfriend, Bri,” is the only introduction he offers, and I don’t miss the way he shortens my name, as if he doesn’t want the man to fully know who I am.


Fine by me.


“A pleasure to meet you.”


“You too.” I flash him my practiced polite smile.


As soon as we step inside while Mordecai heads out for a cigarette, I whisper to Ambrose, “Girlfriend, huh?”


His breath is warm against my ear when he whispers back, “Just for tonight. Unless…”


“Don’t you dare finish that sentence.”


His low, dark chuckle electrifies me in a way that’s uncomfortable, but in an entirely too pleasant way, and I try to ignore the way his touch seems to burn through the thin fabric of the dress right to the skin of my hip.


My jaw drops when we make our way into the foyer of the mansion. It’s even more impressive in the main room, with dark wood floors and parallel staircases curving up to the second level on either side.


The lighting is dim, and low classical music reverberates from the open ballroom ahead. A man offers to take my coat, and I slip it off before handing it to him.


Ambrose’s eyes skate over my body, and he opens his mouth as if he’s going to say something but closes it again before any words slip past.


I raise my eyebrows at him in a silent challenge, and his lips twist into a sultry smile.


“You look ravishing,” he purrs, wrapping his arm back around my waist


“I look like a harlot.”


“I’m inclined to disagree, though I’ll admit the word ‘sinful’ does come to mind…”


I huff out an exasperated breath, and he simply smirks and leads me into the ballroom.


Ambrose glides effortlessly through the room with a possessive hand on my lower back the entire time, whirling through smooth introductions. I manage to smile and say polite hellos despite the constant nagging sensation of feeling like an impostor, but it’s difficult for me to pay attention to any of the people I meet—as important as they may be—because the gothic elegance of the decor in this massive mansion is breathtaking.


The ballroom feels like a shadowed dream. Dim chandeliers dripping with crystal hang from the high ceilings, capturing the light of the hundreds of candles that flicker throughout the room in iron sconces and elaborate candelabras. The warm, heavy scent of cinnamon and cloves permeates the air of the grandiose ballroom.


A string quartet tucked into a recessed alcove plays a slow, haunting piece music that sounds vaguely familiar. There must be over a hundred people here, milling about amongst the tables that line the outer edges of the room or dancing in the open center of the ballroom.


A server in a black suit and white gloves approaches, offering a silver tray lined with glasses of dark wine. I take one, twisting the delicate glass stem between my fingers, and take a sip. The wine is a deep, dark red, not unlike the color of my dress, and tastes like blackberries.


“I want you to see the garden,” Ambrose says once we’ve walked away from what feels like the dozenth person he’s introduced me to.


I glance at him, but his mask hides whatever expression he wears. I nod, and with one last glance at the room that feels like it belongs in a Southern gothic fever dream, I follow him through a pair of towering glass doors draped in thick, damask curtains the color of dried blood.


The moment we step outside, the chilly air wraps around my bare shoulders, though heat lamps are stationed in a semi-circle around the seating area. Beyond that is the garden, though I can’t quite see it past the glowing orange heating lamps.


Ambrose guides me with a hand at the small of my back, and I shiver, though whether it’s from his touch or the cold night air, I’m not sure.


We follow a stone path off the concrete patio, and the dark garden fades into view.


It stretches across the backyard, wide and winding, lit with hundreds of tiny lanterns strung through gnarled trees and lining the stone paths. The hedge walls curve and twist in a labyrinth of greenery, and whispers float through the air from somewhere in the maze.


Ambrose leads me down a path where the grass is slick with dew and the trees loom overhead.


I should be afraid, something in the back of my mind says. Alone with him, in a strange place, hidden in the darkness.


But I’m not. Something strangely pleasant is humming through my veins, and it’s not because of the wine.


“Why did you bring me out here?” I ask as he sits on a creaky wooden bench and motions for me to join him.


“I thought you might enjoy it,” he answers. “It’s peaceful out here, and I could feel how tense you were inside with all those people.”


I sink onto the bench beside him and cross my arms over my chest, trying to ward off the chill. “Thank you. You didn’t have to do that. I know you have some sort of task to accomplish here tonight; I don’t mean to pull you away from it just because I’m awkward around people.”


“You’re nothing of the sort,” he says, shrugging off his suit coat and draping it over my shoulders.


“Thank you,” I murmur, pulling the warm fabric around my bare arms. “It’s just hard to feel comfortable in a place like this.”


“Why?”


“Because I don’t belong here. All these rich, important people making a difference in the world, and I’m just… me.”


“You’re more important than you give yourself credit for.”


I raise my eyebrows at him, skeptical. “Right.”


“It’s true. You belong here just as much as any of them do.”


“Try telling them that,” I grumble. Coming here has only exacerbated the notion that I don’t belong in a place like this. Awkwardly sidestepping questions about what I do for work, pretending I understand any of their lighthearted jokes about the stock market.


“I don’t need to convince them of anything. Their opinions mean nothing to me. Besides, half the people here are simply pretending to know what they’re talking about. I’ll tell you a secret: faking confidence and having confidence are the same exact thing. Nobody knows the difference.”


I shake my head at him, but I have to admit what he’s saying makes sense to some degree.


The silence between us after my confession and his reassurance is heavy, drowning out the hum of noise coming from the backyard and suspending us in the moment. Ambrose watches me with that unreadable expression again, but this time, it feels as if he’s studying me, trying to figure out something he doesn’t quite understand.


Then, without a word, he stands and offers a hand. I hesitate only a second before placing mine in his.


We meander through the winding garden paths, the lantern light catching in the dark sheen of his hair and painting golden strokes along the line of his jaw beneath the dark mask covering the upper half of his face. His ethereal beauty is striking tonight, even with his face partially obscured.


Ambrose doesn’t speak much, and neither do I, but the tall hedges towering over us seem to press us closer together. His fingers graze mine once, and I’m not sure if it’s an accident or a silent question.


I don’t allow myself to consider the possibility of actually taking his hand—that would be too close to admitting defeat in this twisted game we’re playing.


Eventually, he guides me back toward the mansion, and I try not to feel disappointed as we approach the glass doors.


We step inside, the warm air encircling me like a blanket, when a man approaches Ambrose to say hello.


That’s when I see them.


My blood runs cold and I freeze in place, though I do my best to appear calm. Two men stand at the far end of the room near the bottom of one of the staircases. They’re dressed differently, in suits and masks instead of casual white clothing, but their aura is unmistakable.


The angels.


Samuel meets my stare across the distance with his icy blue eyes, and my pulse is like thunder in my ears.


But then he lifts a single finger to his lips in a silent gesture for me to stay quiet, and my stomach drops like a cold, hard stone.


Why are they here?


Ambrose is still chatting casually with the man beside him, oblivious to what just transpired.


I force myself to tear my gaze away from the angels, shifting to face Ambrose and the man he’s speaking to even as panic threatens to overtake me.


The man notices my movement and turns slightly toward me with a warm, easy smile, like he’s been patiently waiting for me to join their conversation. He looks to be in his late thirties, handsome but relaxed, and he gives off the impression he’s simply here to enjoy the party rather than to impress everyone else. It’s a refreshing change of pace from the others I’ve met tonight.


“Brielle,” Ambrose says, catching my hesitation and gesturing me forward. “This is Richard, a friend of mine.”


He holds out his hand for a handshake, and I take it, hoping my firm grip hides my trembling.


“Nice to meet you,” I recite for what feels like the millionth time tonight.


“The pleasure is all mine.” Richard has a soft accent that adds to that gentlemanly sense of southern charm he radiates. “Ambrose hasn’t mentioned you, but I can see why; he must want to keep you all to himself.”


I smile in spite of myself as Ambrose chuckles beside me, though his hand curls into a fist at his side. “You caught me,” he says.


I cast my eyes back in the direction of the staircase, but the angels are gone. A chill runs down my spine that makes me certain they’re still watching from the shadows.


“I hate to step away,” Ambrose remarks, his hand brushing my hip, “but I should use the restroom and grab us both another glass of wine.”


“No problem,” I answer, even as anxiety buzzes like static under my skin.


Ambrose walks away, leaving me alone with Richard. He leans casually against the wall pillar behind him with his hands tucked into his pockets, and I prepare myself for another awkward conversation, though this time without Ambrose around to do the smooth talking.


“You doing alright?” he asks softly. “You looked like you’d seen a ghost a minute ago.”


My eyes shift toward the staircase again, but it’s empty.


“I’m fine,” I say too quickly, then immediately regret it. I exhale, trying to shake the tension in my shoulders. “It’s just been a long night.”


He nods sympathetically. “You and me both. Sometimes I feel like I don’t belong in places like this.”


I cast him an incredulous look. “Really? I mean, me either, but that’s because I actually don’t.”


“Could’ve fooled me. But no, I had a rough start in life, so this sort of extravagance feels foreign sometimes. Even though I have money now, it still feels a bit like I’m pretending to be someone I’m not.”


His confession draws me in, piquing my curiosity about what his life might be like. He’s become one of them yet still doesn’t feel like he belongs, and it’s clear he’s not given up his modesty to match most of their pretentious attitudes. The tightness in my chest loosens, and it’s the first time I’ve felt at ease all night. Seeing the angels here set off sirens in my mind, but the danger feels muted right now, knowing Ambrose isn’t far away and I have good company in the meantime.


“I can understand that,” I say, even though I can’t. At least, not from a firsthand perspective. “Are you from around here?”


“Not far. Grew up near the Tennessee state line. I’ve been all over since, but this place always draws you back.”


I shudder. Not me, I think. Once I’m gone I’m never coming back.


“Where do you and Ambrose live?”


“Out in the middle of nowhere,” I answer, sidestepping the question while still technically telling the truth. There’s a note of bitterness in my tone, but I don’t think he notices.


Richard laughs. “Well, I s’pose there are pros and cons to that as much as anything else. How long have y’all been together?”


“Not long, but I knew I’d be stuck with him from the first moment I met him,” I answer through clenches teeth forced into a smile. Again, not technically a lie.


“Love at first sight then,” he jokes, but there’s a glint in his eyes that makes me wonder if he knows more than he’s letting on.


“Something like that.”


“He’s an interesting guy, that one. Always so secretive.”


I nod, not sure where he’s going with this. “He is.”


“Anything interesting you can share, just between the two of us?” He asks in a conspiratorial whisper, leaning in slightly.


“No,” I laugh nervously, “sorry to disappoint.” Ambrose did say most of them think he works for the CIA, so it makes sense there’s an air of mystery around him, but the line of questioning is disconcerting


We switch topics, and I end up asking him more about his work, to which he describes how he founded a non-profit dedicated to helping injured wild animals. Slowly, I relax into the easy rhythm of our conversation as he explains why this matters to him and how he managed to make it work. The evident passion he has for his work is endearing.


The rest of the room disappears as we continue to converse, and I realize I’m smiling more than I have in a long time. Richard isn’t just handsome, but clever and caring. I find myself blushing at his frequent yet subtle compliments, just enough to be flirty but not enough to overstep.


In another life, this is the sort of man I could have seen myself being with. Someone with a passion to make the world a better place and the drive to do something about it.


“I’m glad Ambrose brought you,” he says, interrupting my thoughts. “You’re the sweetest breath of fresh air I’ve had in a long time.”


“Likewise. I wish I could stay here all night and just talk to you.”


I sense Ambrose’s return before I see him. His presence cuts through the air like a blade sliding into its sheath.


He steps beside me again, offering me one of the glasses of wine he’s holding. His eyes sweep quickly over my flushed face, then flick to Richard, who flashed him a smile.


“Welcome back,” Richard says, as if he hadn’t just been flirting with me for the better part of thirty minutes. Not that I minded.


“I got pulled into another conversation,” Ambrose replies, “But it seems the two of you got on just fine.”


My face warms, even though I did nothing wrong, and Ambrose’s gaze lingers on me for a second too long.


“Come with me,” he says, then tosses a dismissive, “Excuse us,” to Richard.


Well, I guess that’s the end of that conversation.


Before I can ask where or why, he gently takes my hand and pulls me toward the center of the room. We weave through groups of masked guests in conversation, past tables covered with appetizers and wine, and toward the dance floor in the middle of the room.


Ambrose takes my wine glass from my hands and sets it beside his on a mostly empty table.


“What are we doing?”


He doesn’t answer until we’re in the middle of the room, directly beneath the chandelier, and he turns to face me, his hand still wrapped around mine. A few couples dance around us, lost in their own little worlds.


“Dance with me.”


I blink up at him. “Really? And how exactly does that help with whatever mysterious thing you’re supposed to be accomplishing tonight?”


He flashes me a sheepish grin. “It doesn’t. I’m just selfish, and I can pretend you’re mine, at least for tonight.”


The words hit me with more force than expected, pressing against the walls I keep carefully built up around my heart—the ones that are cracking and crumbling more each day. I hesitate only a second longer before placing my free hand in his, letting him guide the other to his shoulder.


He pulls me into him, and I can’t think of anything beside how close we are. The last time we were this close, he was holding a knife to my throat.


His hand on my waist is possessive, his fingers pressing through the fabric of my dress like he’s been waiting all night to touch me like this. His warm, woodsy scent envelops me, I’m aware of everything: the way the silk of my gown slides against his suit coat, the brush of my leg against his as we shift, the burn of his gaze when it finds mine. The way he’s so gentle yet entirely in control, leading me through the dance with a soft sort of dominance.


We sway in time with the music, and I try to keep my mind from wandering. If I close my eyes and forget about the circumstances that led me here, I can almost pretend I want this.


The rhythm pulls us into a trance, and everything else in the room disappears, like the world’s folded in around us. All that exists in this moment is the swell of the music and the press of his warm, strong body against mine.


For this brief, ephemeral moment, I allow myself to let go of all the fear and worry and resentment.


His words from moments ago echo in my head. “I can pretend you’re mine, at least for tonight.” They tug at something in my chest that I desperately try to ignore.


The slow melody fades and transitions into something more lively, and Ambrose pulls away a couple of inches to look down at me. His eyes are dark with a range of conflicting emotions, though I can’t tell what. They seem to shift from affectionate to hurt to guarded in a fraction of a second.


My heart slams against my ribcage as he leans down and places a gentle kiss on the top of my head. It’s such a simple gesture, but it quickens my pulse as if I’ve just run a mile.


His gaze flicks up over my head toward the back of the room, and his expression hardens for a fraction of a second. It’s so quick that I could have imagined it, but I’ve become more attuned to his expressions over the last few weeks, so I don’t think that’s the case.


“I’ll be back in a few minutes, my pet,” he murmurs. The nickname is spoken with such softness and affection this time that it doesn’t annoy me as much as it usually does. “Get some food, drink some wine, and wait for me in here, okay?”


I nod in agreement, though curiosity nags at me. He clearly has something to deal with tonight, but he still won’t tell me what. I follow him to the table of hors d’oevres at the edge of the grand ballroom, and once I’ve taken a small plate, Ambrose stalks across the room and out the back doors.


So dramatic.


Snagging another glass of wine from the servers, I take a seat at an empty table against the wall where I can face the room to people-watch.


It’s disconcerting to see so many people without having the ability to analyze their expressions through their masks.


I take my time eating and sipping my wine, but I frequently glance toward the back doors, hoping Ambrose will stride through them at any moment. Eventually, I give up and instead search for Richard in the crowd, though that also feels futile given the sheer number of men dressed so similarly to him.


Loneliness creeps in the longer I sit, and the emotional whiplash of the last few days is, once again, making it impossible to relax.


Every muscle in my body tenses when two figures slide into the seats directly beside me, one on each side.


I don’t even have to see their faces to know it’s them. The angels.


“What are you doing here?” I ask, glancing toward the back doors in search of Ambrose. I’m not sure if I want him to come in or stay out. If he walks in now, he might suspect I’ve been talking to them and considering selling him out. On the other hand, the angels still raise my hackles, as if some primal part of me considers them to be predators. And while Ambrose probably wouldn’t have any problem killing me for his own sake, I have no doubt he’d also protect me from other immortal beings.


“Trying to gather the information we need, since your hesitation to help us seems to be persisting,” Samuel answers. As always, the other man says nothing.


“And why would you decide to come here? Is there something special about tonight?”


The men exchange a weighted glance. “Maybe. Maybe not. That depends on what Ambrose is doing at the present moment. Maybe you should go find him.”


“I told him I would wait in here,” I argue, but even as I say it, unease gnaws at my gut.


“And don’t you think there might be a reason for that? Something he may not want you to see?”


The warm glow of emotion I’d been feeling only half an hour earlier has dissipated completely. They could be lying, I remind myself. But something tells me they’re not. Ambrose has been flighty all night. There’s something he’s not telling me.


Samuel speaks again. “Go see for yourself. We’ll see you in two weeks.” Without another word, they both stand and disappear into the crowd, leaving me alone and prickling with anxiety.


I wipe my clammy palms on my dress before I stand and make my way toward the back doors. One couple lounges on the chairs to my left, but they hardly seem to notice me as I walk past them and toward the garden area.


As I approach the hedge maze, muffled voices sound from somewhere inside. Both are men, though I can’t make out the words they’re saying.


As quietly as possible, I tiptoe through the maze in the direction of the voices. They’re growing increasingly more severe as the argument intensifies, and I catch a few words.


“Please don’t,” one man begs. That one definitely isn’t Ambrose. I can tell by his tone.


The response is a growled question, though I can’t make out the words. One thing is clear, though: It’s Ambrose.


The other man mutters something, but it doesn’t seem to be the answer Ambrose is looking for, because he repeats the question.


The man is stammering and begging now, and my stomach sinks.


Before I can consider the weight of my actions, I stride forward and turn the corner to find the two men standing there.


Ambrose has the man’s back against his chest, with one arm reaching around to hold a gleaming knife to his throat while the other pins his arms behind his back.


The knife flashes in the moonlight as he swipes it to the side, slitting the man’s throat in one sharp motion. He falls to the ground with a heavy thud, and Ambrose’s gaze raises to me just as I recognize the man collapsed against the shrubbery.


Richard. His face is paling more with each second that passes, his eyes glassy. Streams of thick blood spill down his neck, seeping into the crisp white dress shirt beneath his suit jacket.


I can’t look away.


The one person in this godforsaken place that’s made me laugh tonight is dead.


“What did you do?” I whisper. Tears well in my eyes as I stare down at the lifeless body.


Ambrose is silent.


“What did you do?” I repeat, though now my voice is louder and wracked with anger. It seems hypocritical to hate Ambrose for killing a man who’s practically a stranger to me considering that I’ve killed once and will likely kill again, but I can’t imagine why this was necessary.


He was so sweet, so kind, and it’s been years since I’ve laughed with someone like I did with him. I may have only known him for an hour, but sharp pain strikes my chest at seeing him dead. Another tiny glimmer of happiness that’s been taken away as quickly as it came.


I stare at Ambrose, waiting for a reply, some sort of explanation to make this better.


Maybe he really does kill for pleasure or greed. Or maybe it was a weird sense of possession or entitlement to me. That would make sense given the way he pulled me away to dance after seeing Richard hit on me. Is he reactive enough—or does he care enough—that he’d kill another man for flirting with me? Because that would be fucking insane.


Whatever it is, the horror and disgust are blatant in my expression, because Ambrose glares right back at me, the bloodied knife still hanging in his hand and the body of a dead man at his feet.


“I killed him,” he finally says in response to my question, his voice devoid of emotion.


“But why?”


“Does it matter?”


“Of course it matters,” I answer, though my voice cracks. “How could you do something like this?”


He lets out a harsh laugh that makes my blood run cold. Even on the night he tricked me into making a deal with him, he wasn’t this vitriolic.


“Does it even matter if I attempt to justify his death? No matter what I say, I’ll always be a monster in your eyes.”


He stalks out of the maze without another word, flicking the knife closed and shoving it into his pants pocket, and I force myself to follow him, if only to not be stuck in a dark garden with a dead body.


As soon as I find my way to the open garden, I promptly lean against a statue and heave, emptying the contents of my stomach against the concrete sculpture. It’s one thing to kill a person who’s been harming people, but it’s another to murder a man who runs a charity and lights up a room.


Maybe he did do something terrible, but if Ambrose won’t explain to me why he killed this man, then I can’t help but assume it’s unjustified. Why else wouldn’t he tell me? It’s not like he’s hid his nature from me before. Maybe I was stupid to believe that his intelligence and bouts of kindness meant he was a good person deep down.


But he’s right; he is a monster. I see that more clearly than ever, and turning his secrets over to the angels to prevent him from killing more is beginning to seem like a reasonable option.



OceanofPDF.com

c20V





CHAPTER 22


“Ihave a proposition.” I stand in the doorway of Ambrose’s study with my arms crossed, determined to plead my case. We’ve hardly spoken since the masquerade event, having driven home in tense silence that night, both of us stewing in our emotions. That night, I had briefly hoped that maybe he was softening toward me and wondered what that could mean for my future, only to see him later for the monster he truly is. It was the harsh reminder I needed not to fall for his deceitful charm.


It’s been a couple days now, and I’ve had enough time to plot out my next steps. As much as I wish to keep my distance from him, I’m still at his mercy in some regards. So, I’m forced to be friendly in hopes of getting what I need, even though the sight of him killing Richard in cold blood without an ounce of emotion refuses to leave my mind.


Ambrose looks up from the book he’s reading. “And what would that proposition be?”


“Well—” I sink down on the couch across from him “—our deal is that I need to take lives for you. However, I’ve decided I’m only going to do so by killing men that deserve it.”


He gently closes his book to give me his full attention. His eyes glint with amusement. “Okay… and?”


“And it’s hard for me to determine who really deserves it without having all the information. I can’t exactly just walk into town and ascertain someone’s true nature by having a friendly conversation.”


“You seemed to do it easily enough with that bartender,” he counters.


I spear him with a glare. “The bartender dug his own grave by trying to drug me. I wouldn’t have gone after him if he hadn’t. I gave him a test, and he failed.”


Ambrose’s lips lift in a smirk. “Whatever you say. Are you going to tell me what your proposition is?”


“Yes. You said you have internet here, and I’d like to have a device I can access it on. You know, to do some research. I’ll be able to complete our deal more quickly by figuring out who to target, and you know that I don’t have anyone to contact to rescue me even if I wanted to.”


He’s silent for a moment, thinking, so I continue.


“Plus, if we’re bonded or whatever you call it, it would be stupid for me to try to escape considering it would kill me anyway.”


His eyes are fixed on me, as if he’s trying to discern whether I’m being truthful or not, before he finally nods. “Okay. I’ll get you something tomorrow.”


Well, that was easy enough, though I wish I had been lying about not having someone to help me escape.


The next day, Ambrose hands me an older looking tablet that has a few scratches but otherwise seems to function fine.


To my surprise, he hasn’t blocked any of the social media sites I pull up, though I only check them out of curiosity. I haven’t actually used any of them in years since Joel would always freak out and accuse me of trying to talk to other men whenever I was on them. Even if I happened to remember my passwords for any of the accounts, I wouldn’t log into them anyway. There’s nothing and no one I miss from my old life.


My old life. It feels weird to think of it that way, because does that mean I’m considering this my new life? Or maybe just a stepping stone to a new life? Yeah, that’s it. It’s a middle ground between where I’ve been and where I want to be. A temporary place where I’m forced to endure hardship until I’m finally free.


I plop down on the couch and am scrolling through a news page on the tablet when it hits me that I may very well be one of these news stories if Joel cared enough to report me missing.


I open a new tab and type my full name into the search bar. Nothing comes up aside from the generic sites that offer up a person’s private information for a fee, and one article from a local newspaper written a dozen years ago about an academic award I had won in high school. Otherwise, no missing persons reports.


I had wondered what would win over—Joel’s need for control or his desire to maintain the image of control. He must’ve preferred not to tell his cop buddies that his wife ran away. I’m sure that would shatter his illusion of superiority when his coworkers would ask questions or rib him about not being able to control his woman.


I’m sure he crafted up some clever story about me spending time with my parents, even though I haven’t spoken to them in years.


Oh well. At this point, I hope to never see Joel or anyone from my old life again. Once I’m free from Ambrose, I’ll be forging my own path, starting from scratch. How or where or when, I’m not sure, but for once, the haziness of the future doesn’t scare me—it impels me.


I close the tab with my name typed in the search bar and go back to scrolling the local news site. It doesn’t take long for me to come across something that snags my attention. I recognize the man’s name and, after reading the first paragraph, I realize it’s an article about the pastor I had seen on the news last week. He’d been manipulating the elderly members of his church into signing over their assets to the church and, by association, him.


As the week has passed, more people have come forward about the pastor, including members of a church he led ten years ago in a different state. Apparently this isn’t the first time he’s found himself embroiled in a scandal.


My blood boils when I see the claims made against him from members of his former church, though. A woman in her early twenties has come forward to recount not only the abuse she suffered from her parents, but the way the pastor had covered it up.


Her quote in the article is heartbreaking.


“I thought I would be able to trust him. He preached every Sunday about acting with virtue, loving others the way God loves us, and speaking the truth. So I confided in him. I showed him my bruises, told him about the fear my brother and I experienced every day. I was only nine years old, and I thought he would help me. Instead, he used Bible verses to convince me it was my fault.”


A couple lines later, she quotes the verses. “They’ve stuck in my head ever since. ‘For the Lord disciplines the one he loves, and chastises every son whom he receives.’ He had told me that I deserved discipline for my perceived disobedience and claimed that this was God strengthening my spirit. All I wanted was to feel safe as a child, and instead he had made me believe the abuse was my fault.”


My eyes brim with furious tears, not only with empathy for this girl who went through so much, but also because I had fallen into something so similar with Joel. For a long time, I had thought that if I was a better wife—if I looked prettier, had more patience, gave him what he wanted—that the abuse would stop. If only I could be good enough, I’d deserve the safety and happiness I so desperately desired. It took too long for me to realize that wasn’t how it worked.


And this poor girl had only been a child.


This article is all the confirmation I need to mentally add him to my list of victims.


Is this enough proof to determine if he deserves to die? Maybe, maybe not. But I need to kill regardless, and I’d rather kill someone like him than someone who at least attempts to be a good person. People will commit great acts of evil if they’re convinced they have the moral high ground. Killing in the name of God, oppression in the name of maintaining superiority. The more I see it, the more sickening it becomes.


Besides, I plan on getting a full confession this time, by any means necessary.



OceanofPDF.com

c227





CHAPTER 23


“Men never do evil so completely and cheerfully as when they do it from religious conviction.”


- Blaise Pascal


Islide into a pew in the back of the church just as the service begins. This morning, I made the fifty-minute drive here after spending last night preparing everything I’d need. My plan is much clearer than the last murder I committed, and though I haven’t worked out every detail, I’ve come prepared.


I set my tote bag on the pew beside me, grateful that this isn’t one of those churches that’s packed to the brim every Sunday. I’m sure Pastor Delaney’s recent sins coming to light doesn’t help attendance, though.


The first notes of the organ resonate through the church, and everyone rises. I follow suit, though I remain silent while those around me sing about amazing grace.


But despite my rather nefarious reasons for being here, I’m able to enjoy the music. There’s something about a room full of people singing together that alleviates the weight of reality and suspends everyone in a sense of togetherness, at least until the music stops.


I’m almost relaxed when the final song fades out, but then Pastor Delaney steps up to the pulpit to deliver his sermon, and I remember what I’m here to do. I sit along with the rest of the congregation, and my spine digs into the hard wooden pew.


He's younger than I expected, maybe early forties, with cropped brown hair and the kind of face that probably photographs well for the church’s website. He wears slacks and a white button-down collared shirt.


“Today,” he begins, his deep voice filling the room, “I want to talk about trials and tribulations.”


Of course you do, I think bitterly.


“We all face challenges in our walk with God,” he continues, making eye contact with various members of the congregation. His gaze pauses on me, but only for a second. “But it's how we handle these challenges that defines us as Christians.”


The woman in front of me nods earnestly, and I suppress a surge of anger. He's using their faith against them, twisting scripture to serve his own ends. So many people come to church for community and spiritual guidance with the desire to live righteously, only for men like him to use their influence for selfish manipulation.


“Consider Job,” he says, flipping open his Bible. The rustle of pages flipping sounds as members of the congregation open their Bibles. “A righteous man who lost everything—his wealth, his children, his health. And yet, he never lost his faith.”


I clench my teeth so hard my jaw aches. Is this his way of justifying what he's done? Comparing himself to Job because he finally got caught in his corruption? Nothing like justifying your sins by cherry picking Bible stories, I guess.


“When we face accusations and trials,” he continues, and there's a subtle emphasis on 'accusations' that makes it clear he’s still attempting to claim innocence, “we must remember that God is refining us through fire. That these challenges are opportunities for our faith to grow stronger.”


The sermon continues in this vein, a masterclass in manipulation dressed up as spiritual guidance. He weaves scripture and personal anecdotes together seamlessly, painting himself as a humble servant being tested by worldly persecution all while not actually mentioning what he’s been accused of. It would almost be impressive if it wasn't so nauseating.


When the service finally ends, I remain seated while others file out, watching him shake hands and offer blessings at the door. It’s easy to see how he might have fooled so many people. He smiles kindly and asks people specific questions about their lives—kids, jobs, birthdays— showing that he cares about their struggles and successes. It’s the same sort of charisma so many politicians seem to hide behind.


Once the crowd has thinned and others are headed outside, I make my approach. I've practiced this persona carefully: young, uncertain, and seeking guidance.


“Excuse me?” I ask softly.


He turns in my direction and gives me a warm smile. “Hello. I don’t believe I’ve seen you here before.”


“This is my first time here. I’m staying with some family in the area for a few weeks and just felt—” I pretend to search for the right words “—called to come here.”


His chin dips in a nod of understanding. “Well, I’m glad you came. You’re always welcome here. We’re a tight-knit community, so everyone is always happy to offer support where it’s needed.”


“Thank you,” I say. “I think I’ll come back next week. That was a great service, and I loved what you were saying about God testing us so we come out stronger. Would there happen to be childcare during the services? I’m not sure if I’ll have to take care of my nephew in the coming weeks.” The lie rolls off my tongue easily, and it has the intended outcome.


“Yes, we do have a couple rooms, one for the younger children and another for the older ones. Would you like a tour?”


“That would be great.” Flashing him a bright smile, I grab my tote bag from the pew beside me then follow him through the empty church, past the now-silent organ and down a hallway lined with Sunday School artwork. He shows me both of the daycare rooms while asking me questions about my imaginary nephew and the rest of the imaginary family I’ve come to stay with.


I lie easily, hoping that God doesn’t smite me down right here in the hallway.


With every room we pass, I check to make sure there are no people lingering. I need the church to be empty for my plan to work. Pastor Delaney gives me a tour of the rest of the church before opening the door to his office.


It’s about what I expected it to be. A small room with an old metal desk, a bookshelf filled with religious texts, and a couple chairs on the other side of the desk. I immediately start assessing how I’ll be able to pull off my plan with what’s inside the room.


“If you’d like to talk, you’re welcome to sit.” He gestures to the chairs.


“Thank you. I think it might help…” I say hesitantly. How am I going to do this? He’s not a large man, but still bigger than me by a fair amount. I certainly can’t overpower him, which means I need to be sneaky.


He sits on the other side of the desk while I slide into the cushioned chair across from him and set my tote bag at my feet. I reach down, gingerly pulling out the handcuffs I’d bought yesterday and hoping he doesn’t hear the faint clinking of the chain as I slip them beneath my thigh. Both sides of the cuffs are already open, so I don’t need to worry about unlocking them in the heat of the moment.


Now what?


I need an excuse to get up and get closer to him. I also need something to handcuff him to, which is turning out to be a more difficult than expected. The desk chair is on wheels, and I’m not sure if I can manage to cuff him to the desk drawer handles, or if they’ll even hold up if I did.


Worst case scenario, I continue to play the lost woman searching for meaning and get out of here without having executed my plan. The only thing I’ll have lost is time, which I have plenty of to spare these days.


The steady ticking of the clock on the wall reminds me that if I’m going to do this, I need to think fast. I can only prolong this conversation for so long.


“Shall we pray?” Pastor Delaney asks.


“Uh, sure, that would be good.”


He takes my hands in his across the table, his gaze lingering on the fresh scars running up my forearms.


“Dear Heavenly Father,” he begins, bowing his head, but I only partly register the words he’s saying as I scan the room.


My best bet is cuffing him to the desk or his chair, but I’m not sure how that would work. I’d have to get to the other side of his desk without rousing suspicion, then hope that whatever spot I latch him to isn’t easily moveable. It’s a major gamble, and I’m not sure if it will work.


Think, I urge myself. I glance down at my tote bag as if it will give me some sort of answer, even though I’m fully aware of every item inside. I packed them meticulously last night.


Instead, my eyes latch onto the metal legs of the desk. They’re only about 6 inches long beneath the massive drawers, but that’s enough. I may not be able to cuff his hands, but his ankles would certainly do the job.


“Amen,” he ends his prayer, and I mutter the word as well while trying to look touched by whatever he just prayed with me about.


“Do you really believe what you said earlier, about God testing our faith through hardship?” I ask, buying myself time as I determine my next steps.


“Absolutely. If we only trust in His plan when life is good, that means our faith is conditional, and that should never be the case. All of this is part of His grand plan.”


I nod, like what he says makes total sense, then act as if I’ve had a sudden realization.


“Shoot! I’m sorry, I need to text my family really quick to let them know I’ll be home late.”


“No problem,” he says.


I slip the handcuffs from beneath my thighs, push the chair back a few inches, and lower myself to the ground, pretending to dig through my bag for a phone that doesn’t exist. I use the rustling to cover the sound of a handcuff latching around the leg of the desk, then use both hands to quickly secure the other end around his ankle.


He draws his leg back, but it’s too late. “What in the world?”


I pop back up on the other side of the desk and meet his confused stare.


“What’s this all about?” he asks when I don’t provide an explanation.


Grabbing my bag, I stand and lean against the wall near the door. I’m fairly certain the desk is heavy enough that he won’t be able to lift it, but I’m not about to take my chances in case I need to make a run for it.


“And do you think you’ve done a good job at following the moral code you preach? Do you think you’ve been following God’s plan in the way He would want?”


Understanding dawns in his eyes, quickly followed by anger. “Stop playing games and let me out of this.” He attempts to stand and lift the desk to free the handcuff, but it doesn’t budge. Perfect.


“You didn’t answer my question.”


He pats his pockets, searching for his cell phone, until he realizes it’s on one of the bookshelves furthest from him. Out of reach.


“Seriously, what’s this all about? Who sent you?” He’s still angry and confrontational, but panic laces his tone now.


“Maybe God sent me.” I smirk.


He scoffs, “Don’t be ridiculous.”


“The truth is,” I say, “I’ve seen you in the news and wanted to figure out what was going on for myself. There seem to be a lot of people saying you’re using your status to manipulate the members of your congregation.”


“Those are just allegations from people who don’t have the full context. My lawyer is dealing with it.”


I shake my head in mock disappointment. “Why would so many people accuse you of something so heinous if it wasn’t true? You’re supposed to be a man of God, after all. People trust you. But I suppose that’s how you managed to fuck over so many people in the first place, right?”


His eyes narrow on me. “Like I said, the media has taken everything out of context. People are just angry that they didn’t get as much money from their dying relatives as they expected to, so they’re looking for someone to blame.”


“Hmm, is that really the story you’re going with?” Leaning down to rummage through my tote bag, I pull out a book of matches and place them on the small table beside me.


Pastor Delaney casts a wary glance at them, then pins me with a glare. “Those people wanted to help the church. I don’t know what the hell you want from me, but you’re going to regret this.”


I smile as I lean down again to pull out the gallon of gasoline in my bag.


“One more chance…”


His face pales when he makes the connection, and he pulls against the cuff around his ankle, causing the metals to clang together. “Seriously, this isn’t funny.”


“It’s not meant to be. I was hoping it might elicit a confession, though.”


“Okay, okay,” he says in a panicked tone, raising his hands in mock surrender. “I might have persuaded some of these people a little more than I should have, but it was all for the church!”


I cock my head, waiting for him to elaborate.


“So much needs to be fixed in this building, and I don’t have money for the repairs, and everything’s getting more expensive these days.”


“So why haven’t there been any renovations?” I ask. I don’t know if there actually have been, but from his reaction, I seem to have guessed accurately.


“I’ve been planning them, I swear!”


Without a word, I uncap the gas can and pace to the other end of the room, making sure to keep a wide berth. When I tilt the can and allow a small amount of gasoline to splash into the carpet, his eyes widen.


“Okay, okay, wait! Maybe I used some of the money for myself, but I swear I meant to put it back into the church once I was more financially stable.”


“And how did you convince these people to sign their assets over?”


He swallows hard. “I—I told them it was God’s will. That they could do more good by helping the church than holding onto material possessions. That this would benefit the whole community. Most of them were older and easy to convince.”


Another part of the article I’d read about him flashes through my mind.


“I also saw a statement from a young woman saying she went to you for help about her abusive parents years ago, and that you brushed it off. What was that all about?”


He stammers, trying to come up with an excuse that won’t incriminate him further. “I—I don’t know. Her parents were good people, helped out at community events, and I just… I thought she was exaggerating, I don’t know.”


My stomach twists. “For someone who’s supposed to stand up for what’s right, you’re kind of a coward.”


He ignores my statement. “You won’t get away with this. People will find out.”


I shrug. “That’s a risk I’m willing to take.”


“Please, just let me go. I’ll do better, I promise.” He’s getting desperate now, clearly troubled by the level of disgust and lack of pity in my eyes.


“Anything else to confess?” I ask, ignoring his pleas. “I have a feeling you’ll be meeting your creator very soon.”


He lunges toward me. I step back, easily avoiding his grip, and he cries out in pain as the handcuffs dig into his ankle.


“It’s not too late to change your mind,” he begs. “God will forgive both of us for our sins. Please don’t give into temptation.”


“God might forgive you, but I won’t.” And if judgement day comes for me, I’m already screwed. May as well make the most of it.


I step as close to him as I can without being in his reach and splash the gasoline across his desk, watching it splatter across his button-down as he attempts to shield himself with his forearm. Still, he coughs and spits as some gets into his mouth.


I walk across the room toward the door and my matchbook, trying to keep as much distance between us as possible in the small space. The pastor is still struggling, attempting to lift the desk to no avail. But before I can register what he’s doing, something flies through the air. The textbook he’d ripped from the bookshelf strikes my head, hard and heavy, and I stumble.


He takes the opportunity, managing to lunge toward me and catch the edge of my shirt. I stumble again, and he yanks my arm backward at an odd angle with his fingers digging into my skin. A sharp flash of pain shoots through my shoulder, and I cry out just before he snags a handful of my hair and yanks it down, smashing my head into the desk. A heavy ache blooms behind my forehead, and the room spins. I barely manage to twist out of his grasp, though strands of hair rip from my scalp in the process, and I flatten myself against the wall, out of his reach.


He's desperate now, a cornered animal fighting for its life. He swipes at the bookshelf again, hurling books at me in an attempt to slow me down or incapacitate me. I use my good arm to block them as much as possible, the other one hanging limp at my side.


The sharp corner of one hardcover grazes my cheek, and the sting is immediate. Warm blood trickles down my face, but I don’t have time to worry about it.


I’m at the door now, matchsticks in hand, ducking his frenzied throws.


His eyes widen in terror as I open the office door, take one step backward, and light a match.


“No, no, no, please,” he begs.


Deep down, I know I should feel some sort of hesitation, but much like the incident with the bartender, I’m consumed by the need for justice after discovering how many people he’s wronged. Maybe he’s done good in his life as well, mentored those who needed it and guided them down better paths. But unfortunately for him, that doesn’t matter to me right now.


I’ve now become judge, jury, and executioner, and I’ve decided he deserves to die.


Maybe it’s extreme, maybe I’m completely fucked in the head, but it’s too late to go back now.


“What’s that phrase?” I mutter. “Baptism by fire?”


I toss the match onto the desk, and the wooden top ignites in a whoosh of flames. In an instant, the pastor’s shirt is burning, the flames licking up his torso and around his neck.


His screams pierce the air, and I shut the door between us. I don’t know how close I have to be to him in order to absorb his life, but I don’t want to take my chances by leaving the building before it happens. Light from the back door filters through the glass at the end of the hallway, so I have a clear escape route.


Despite my lack of guilt at killing this man, the sounds of his tortured screams make my stomach roll. His death shouldn’t take long, but the seconds pass agonizingly slowly when each of them is filled with the knowledge that I’m burning a man alive.


Maybe I should have made it quicker, less painful. He deserved punishment, sure, but this might be too much. The smell is the worst part—beneath the scent of the melting plastic and books catching fire, I swear I can smell the acrid stench of burning hair and skin. An image pops unbidden to my mind of his skin turning pink, then blistering in painful burns, then charring black as his consciousness fades.


Bile rises in my throat as I wait. And wait. And wait.


The air around me warms as the fire grows, likely consuming the bookcases and furniture fully by now. I imagine him choking on the thick black smoke, and while part of me is disgusted by what I’ve just done, the other part of me wishes I was there to witness the light leave his eyes.


The screams stop, and after what feels like an eternity, the stone against my chest pulses with energy, and I know he’s dead.


The only sound inside the church is the whoosh and crackle of the growing fire as flames consume the room.


And as I exit the back door and make my way into the weirdly normal afternoon cast in sunlight, I can only hope that whatever deity Ambrose spoke of is more forgiving than the one worshipped within this church.



OceanofPDF.com

c262





CHAPTER 24


Imanage to drive home without crashing, though every time I try to move my arm, it feels like a knife is being jabbed into my shoulder. I should probably go to the hospital, but that would open a slew of other issues. My name being registered in a hospital database after I’ve technically gone missing, even though Joel likely still hasn’t reported it; questioning from medical professionals about how I got hurt; the lack of money to cover the copay. It all would have been too much of a hassle, so I’ll deal with the pain for now.


I’m fairly certain my shoulder is dislocated, and I now have the internet at my disposal to learn how to pop it back into place. I’ll figure it out… probably.


Once I’ve parked in front of the house, I make my way up the creaking porch steps, saying a silent prayer that Ambrose is out in the garage or occupied in his study.


My prayer goes unanswered—shocker—as I gingerly shut the front door behind me and spot Ambrose in the living room.


Play it cool, Brielle.


Avoiding eye contact, I hook the keys on the key ring and reach up with one arm to pull the necklace over my head, setting it on the entryway table along with my bag.


The leather cushions creak in the living room as Ambrose stands and approaches me. Shit.


“Brielle, are you okay?” His concern is palpable, but I don’t want to deal with having a conversation right now.


“I’m fine,” I mutter.


I try to brush past him to head upstairs, but he grabs my good arm to stop me.


“Look at me.”


“No.” The adrenaline rush I’d had earlier is dropping dramatically, and I can’t get the screams of the pastor out of my head no matter how hard I try. One minute, I’m a woman dead set on vengeance, and the next, I’m overwhelmed with guilt at the monster I’ve become. What the hell is wrong with me? I fight back tears as they brim in my eyes, staring at the floor as I refuse to make eye contact with Ambrose.


“Brielle,” he says my name with more force this time, but not unkindly. “What the hell happened to you?”


I inhale a shaky breath and meet his worried gaze. “It’s nothing. Just a little accident.”


His eyebrows shoot up, and when he speaks, he’s seething with anger. “A little accident? You’re covered in blood and can’t move your arm. Who did this to you?”


I shake my head as if to say, “Don’t worry about it,” but I can’t speak. I know that as soon as I do, I’ll break.


“Come here.” Ambrose gently guides me to the couch, though I can feel the rage pouring off of him. I sink onto the cushion, and he disappears to the kitchen before returning with a damp, warm washcloth.


He kneels on the ground before me and begins to dab at the dried blood on my cheek. His face is so close to mine, and I gaze into his deep, dark brown eyes that are zeroed in on my wounds.


“I think my shoulder is dislocated,” I announce.


Ambrose takes a slow breath to calm himself and nods. “I figured as much. I can help you pop it back into place in just a second. Unless something is broken.”


“Okay.”


He closes his eyes for a couple of seconds before he speaks again, attempting to conceal the anger lingering beneath the surface. “I’m going to ask you again. Who did this to you?”


“A pastor. I read about some awful things he had done and picked him as my next target, so I drove up to his church this morning, and things got a little messier than I would have liked. I had a better plan this time and everything.”


Ambrose’s eyes darken, his tone lethal as he says, “I’ll fucking kill him.”


The vitriol in his voice surprises me. Even when he had killed Richard in the garden last week, he’d been cruel and calculated, lacking emotion. Now, he barely seems to be controlling the anger raging inside him.


“He’s dead now, so it doesn’t matter.”


“It matters to me. I wish he wasn’t dead so I could torture him myself.”


My mouth drops open as I stare at him, taken aback by his sudden intensity. I had expected his annoyance at me having done a sloppy job, maybe a little concern about me being hurt, but not this visceral protectiveness. It throws me off kilter even more than I already am.


It’s too much. The softness in his touch, the fierce possessiveness of his words, the tenderness with which he cleans my skin. I lean back slightly, putting a few more inches of space between us to catch my breath as I smile and say, “Well, lucky for you, I burned that motherfucker and his church to the ground.”


He chuckles. “Good girl.”


The phrase should irritate me just as much as his “pet” nickname does, but my chest flutters with something strange. I ignore it and stand up, needing to do something besides sit here and stare in his eyes with him kneeling before me.


“I’ll take a shower in a few minutes to clean up. No need to worry about the cuts. Can you just help me fix my shoulder?”


He stands and sets aside the washcloth, then takes a moment to examine my shoulder before saying, “Like I said, I think we can pop it back into place, but we’ll need to keep an eye on it in case anything gets inflamed.”


“Okay.”


He positions himself beside me and instructs me how to move my arm. He shifts quickly, helping me pop the shoulder back into place with a sudden, firm movement. A sharp pain cuts through me, and I cry out, gripping his hand. But as quickly as it came, the harsh pain subsides, leaving behind a dull ache.


“Wow, that already feels better,” I say, feeling suddenly awkward about my hand in his now that the intense moment is over.


He doesn’t let go, though. He traces slow circles on the back of my hand with his thumb, and I turn to look at him. We’re close—too close—yet I don’t pull away. I don’t have the energy to put my walls up after what I experienced today, and all I want to do is pretend like everything is alright.


Ambrose reaches up, brushing a strand of hair away from my face, and his fingers linger on my cheek. His touch is warm and comforting, almost reverent, and I find myself leaning into it rather than pulling away.


“Why are you being so nice to me?” I murmur, suddenly overcome with exhaustion.


He smiles softly, his thumb still tracing patterns on my cheek. “Because, despite what you may think, I do care about you, Brielle. Probably more than I should.”


Our eyes are locked, our faces only inches apart, and we’re suspended in time. My mind is a flurry of activity, yet no coherent thoughts surface. Only a strange, frenetic energy.


When he leans in almost imperceptibly, reality comes rushing back to me and I jolt backwards.


“I-I’m, uh, gonna go shower,” I blurt before rushing upstairs and wondering what the hell almost just happened.



OceanofPDF.com

c27R





CHAPTER 25


AMBROSE

September


I can’t allow myself to care for her this much, but I don’t know how to stop it. Even if I let her leave now, knowing she could fare for herself at this point, I would never stop wondering about her. She’s carved out a place in my heart, as much as I’ve tried to resist caring for her. At the beginning, I told myself it was simply curiosity, but even then, I knew that I was fooling myself.


I wanted her then, just as I do now.


Hell, I almost kissed her last night before catching myself. Now, kissing her is all I can think about. Those full, pouty lips and deep green eyes haunt my dreams, and I love every second of it.


I’ve tried to keep her at arm’s length, but it’s a futile effort. We grow closer each day, yet I can tell something new is bothering her. At times, she becomes distant, withdrawing into herself and retreating from any interaction I try to initiate. I’m worried that there’s something on her mind—something important—that she’s not telling me, but it’s difficult to read her. She has spent so long training herself to conceal her emotions that she’s become quite good at it.


I had wondered if my actions at the masquerade had caused irreparable damage to her image of me, as she had barely been able to look at me in the following days. If only she knew I had my reasons to kill that man, but explaining the situation to her would only heighten her anxiety and embroil her in schemes that even I’m not fully aware of yet. Better to keep her safe and unaware while believing I’m a cold-hearted monster. It’s probably easier for both of us that way, anyway.


But when she came in beaten and bruised from her last outing, I saw red. The only thing that allowed me to control my rage was the fact that my anger, even if it wasn’t directed at her, would have scared her. She’s grown so much, but it’s not a simple thing to heal from the sort of abuse she endured.


So I kept my fury in check and took care of her as best as I could, and that seemed to heal the rift between us—at least for now.


My morality is skewed enough that I’ve been able to justify keeping her here thus far, but her getting injured due to my rules forces me to consider calling this entire thing off. But if I do, I’ll have to explain all of my lies, and she’d be gone forever.


Despite how much we’ve grown together, she’s still my captive and I her captor, and I doubt she’ll ever forgive me for that.



OceanofPDF.com

c28C





CHAPTER 26


I’ve been watching the news with Ambrose some evenings just to see if anything—or anyone—catches my eye. I need another target, though I’m pretty sure I’ve found my next. After seeing controversy about him on the news, I’ve been doing research on Edward Abbott, a senator from one state over. His name is one I’ve heard with increasing frequency, and every instance seems to be worse than the last. The corruption runs deep—bribery, assault allegations quietly settled out of court, systematic abuse of power, and platforms based on hate-filled prejudices. Slowly, I’ve been concocting a plan.


As much as I wish I could keep my distance from Ambrose, and as much as the angels’ warnings and promises flicker through my head, I’ve kept up appearances of friendliness easily. Sometimes, I almost forget how terrible he is until I remember the look in his eyes after he killed Richard and his refusal to explain, or the dread that flooded me the first time I realized he had tricked and trapped me.


But over the course of the weeks, we’ve fallen into a routine that’s almost laughable with how domestic it feels. I frequently have to remind myself how dangerous it would be to get too comfortable here, but I have to admit, it’s relieving to not have to worry about tiptoeing around someone to avoid random bursts of anger.


The nights are getting colder now that the blazing heat of August has passed and melted into September, now making way to the first chills of autumn. In the mornings, frost spiderwebs across the windows against the orange hues of the sunrise, and the trees surrounding the house have begun their transformations from green to gold.


Some nights, when I stare out in the impenetrable darkness of the woods through the window, I’m certain I’m being watched, but I always brush it off as paranoia. If nothing else, this house is safe, though I can say no such thing for the woods beyond it.


Ambrose has been harvesting more vegetables from his garden over the past few weeks, making soups and elaborate dishes for dinners from his growing stash. I’ve started baking bread using a cookbook I found in one of the cabinets just to pass the time. There’s something meditative about following the recipes without pressure or time constraints.


Back home, I was expected to cook to someone else’s preferences, which made it more of a burden than anything. Here, I’ve been able to experiment and do as much or as little as I please. I’ve also come to realize how fulfilling it is to sit down to a home-cooked meal made from scratch with no fear of whether it will be deemed “good enough.”


It’s ironic that living with a demon—or Liminal—has allowed me more freedom and peace than living with Joel ever did.


Sometimes I wonder what he’s doing, if he even cares that I’m gone. I wonder if people are looking for me, though my name never shows in any online searches, and I still wake up in a cold sweat from dreams where he manages to track me down and drag me away from here.


The timer in the kitchen dings, pulling me back to the present. Pushing aside thoughts of Joel, I punch down my bread dough, dump it from the bowl it’s been rising in, and shape it into two loaves before covering it for one more rise.


This is my life now: playing house with an immortal, baking bread, and plotting murders. Somehow, it makes more sense than anything that came before.


With an hour to kill, I make my way into the living room with intentions to watch a movie just as Ambrose treads through the back door. Despite the cool weather, his forehead is covered in a thin sheen of sweat. He’s dressed in dark jeans and thick boots, and his black long-sleeve henley clings to his chest and arms like it was molded for his body. He’s breathing heavy from whatever caused him so much exertion, and my eyes cling to every detail of his form as he leans against the door frame.


There’s something so captivating about the way he’s standing there in the hallway so casually while his chest rises and falls with heavy breaths. When he notices me staring, he quirks an eyebrow, barely holding back a smile. Something pleasant stirs in my core.


“Enjoying the view?”


I roll my eyes, hoping my annoyance seems convincing. “I was just wondering what you were doing out there.”


“Chopping wood for the fireplace. It’ll only be getting colder for the next few months.”


“Ah. I see.” I avert my gaze and twist the hem of my sweater between my fingers. “Well, I’m waiting on my bread to rise. Might watch a movie or something.”


“Sounds good. I’m going to take a shower, then maybe I’ll join you,” he says before disappearing into his bedroom.


Well, that was awkward. What’s wrong with me? Sure, maybe he’s good-looking—very good-looking… inhumanly good-looking, even—but I can’t allow myself to be attracted to him like that. I can only have an objective appreciation, like I’d appreciate a nice piece of art or a stranger in the store. Letting myself have any sort of… thoughts about him would be crossing a line.


I flip through the stack of DVDs below his TV, but nothing catches my interest. Once I hear the shower running, curiosity gets the better of me. His bedroom is the one room of this house I haven’t seen yet, after all.


I don’t know what I’m expecting—maybe a bunch of demonic symbols painted in dripping blood on the walls—but I’m almost disappointed to find that his room is completely normal. A bed with navy blue sheets and a plain comforter sits against the wall in the middle of the room, a dresser stands in the corner, and paintings are arranged artfully on the walls. I only recognize one—a surrealist painting called “Departure of the Winged Ship” depicting a ship leaving the shoreline, but its sails have been replaced with butterfly wings. I had loved it when I’d first seen it online a few years ago.


Not what I would have expected from Ambrose. Somehow, he continues to surprise me.


I make my way deeper into the room, noticing small, intricate wooden carvings of various animals lining a set of shelves. My attention catches on a framed photograph positioned at the center of one of the shelves. I lean in, examining the black-and-white photograph. In it, Ambrose stands next to an elderly woman, both of them smiling at the camera. His mother? His grandmother? He doesn’t age, so it could likely be either, depending on when the photo was taken. How strange it must feel to be stuck in time, unchanged, while everyone around you grows older.


Once my curiosity has been satisfied, I creep back out into the living room, then decide to peruse the bookshelves in his study instead. I’ve been in here quite a few times, but I still haven’t taken the time to explore the thousands of titles covering the walls.


I run my finger along the spines as I pick a spot at random and begin reading the titles, occasionally pulling some out to read the back covers. They seem to be organized by genre rather than alphabetically, which makes sense. Classics, mysteries, nonfiction, even romance.


However, when I make it to one shelf in the middle of the back wall, I scan the titles trying to determine the connection between them. For as meticulously as everything else is organized, I doubt this is a mistake.


Religious texts take up most of one shelf—the Bible, The Quran, The Upanishads, and many more. Every religion I can think of is represented on the shelves. Beside those and continuing on the following shelves are a mixture of philosophical writings and mythology of various cultures. But what confuses me is the seemingly random inclusion of various other books, including Dante’s Inferno, Frankenstein, The Picture of Dorian Gray, and Doctor Faustus.


It takes me a moment to understand what connects them—they're all attempts to understand the supernatural, to make sense of immortality, morality, and the existence of a higher power.


My heart constricts as I imagine him sitting here, poring over these texts trying to make sense of his existence, analyzing every line to find similarities to what he’s been through—what he’s going through right now.


I’d do the same thing if I were him. How maddening must it be to know you're part of something divine but to not understand why or how? To know there's a God but not remember anything else about your creation or purpose? The questions have been eating at me since I learned about it all, and I'm only a bystander.


It must be worse for him considering he’s not exactly on the side of righteousness. But then again, neither am I now.


“Find anything interesting?”


I jump at Ambrose’s voice, whirling around to find him watching me. His hair is still damp, dark strands falling across his forehead in a way that makes my stomach flip. He looks softer somehow, more human, and that makes him more dangerous than ever.


I shrug as I step away from the shelf. “I was just curious if you had anything good.”


“And do I?”


I cross my arms, ignoring the way the air between us seems charged with electricity as he takes a step forward. “You’re bound to have a few decent ones with this collection.”


He picks up his book from the small table beside his armchair with that knowing half-smile playing at his lips again. “Whatever you say.”


I shake my head in annoyance and leave the room. Being alone with him is complicated now, after my getting hurt by the incident with the pastor and the way we got so close. Too close. The almost of that moment was arguably the most dangerous thing I’ve done since I’ve been here.


I need to focus on fulfilling the bargain and getting out of here as quickly as possible. He’s getting in my head, and I don’t know if I have the strength to stop him. The reasonable part of me wants to fight this budding affection with every ounce of strength I have, but the tiny voice in my mind argues, “Maybe it would be better to surrender.”



OceanofPDF.com

c29X





CHAPTER 27


“There are all kinds of love in the world, but never the same love twice.”


—F. Scott Fitzgerald.


I’ve been tossing and turning restlessly in bed for two hours unable to fall asleep. Being out here in the middle of nowhere is already a significant factor in me having way too much time to think, but now knowing that the supernatural exists, that a deity, in some form or another, exists…


Every time I’m alone in the stillness of the night, it’s impossible to think about anything else. Do Heaven and Hell exist since a deity does? I’m not single-minded enough to think that the Christian God is the only option, but I also can’t say He’s not. Who the hell knows? But if that is the case, if there is an afterlife dependent on morality, where is the distinction between good and evil? The pastor I just killed spent most of his life posing as a man of God, preaching while simultaneously manipulating the helpless to indulge his greed. If there’s a Hell, he’s definitely going there, regardless of what he believed in.


But then, that begs the question of whether a soul’s admission to the afterlife is determined by faith, morality, or a mixture of both. I’ve never been convinced of the nonsense about how simply believing in God and asking for forgiveness are enough to get you into Heaven—there are too many evil people in the world using God’s name to justify their prejudice and hatred for that to be the case.


But in the case of morality, everything gets even more complicated. I don’t quite know what all the religious texts say about sin, but it would be ridiculous to believe that all sins are equal, right? I guess, at the end of the day, it doesn’t really matter considering that if there is a Heaven and Hell, I’m certainly destined to burn for eternity.


I’m not sure what time it is when I go downstairs to make myself a mug of tea, hoping it’ll help me sleep so I can have a break from the thoughts looping in my mind. When I reach the bottom of the stairs and turn to head to the kitchen, Ambrose’s low voice sounding from the living room startles me.


“Can’t sleep?”


I spin to face him. He’s in his armchair with a book in his hand, the lamplight emanating a yellow glow that casts shadows across his sharp features.


“I could ask you the same thing.”


“You don’t have to be so defensive. It was a simple question,” he teases.


I sigh. “You’re right. Sorry. I’m just going to make some tea.”


“Make me a cup?”


“Sure.”


I turn to continue my path to the kitchen and fill the kettle with water before putting it on the stove. While I wait for it to heat, I ready the mugs with the tea bags and re-organize the cabinet to give myself something to do.


Finally, the water is boiling and I finish making the tea. With one mug in each hand, I head to the living room and place them both on the coffee table.


When Ambrose looks up from his book to smile at me, all the air leaves my lungs. For as much as I resent him, he is devastatingly handsome with his onyx hair, sharp cheekbones, and dark eyes.


I pick up my mug and grip it between both palms, not trusting myself to hold it in only one hand with how unsteady I feel, before sinking into the spot on the couch closest to him. Grabbing the same blanket I always use, I curl up and revel in the heat of the fire warming my face.


I stare out the window that’s behind Ambrose, where the waning moon casts a soft glow across the trees, and I think of the line from the first poem he had read to me weeks ago. “Look for me by moonlight; come to me by moonlight.”


“Same book?” I ask him. I already know the answer, but it feels like the easiest way to break the silence.


“Yeah,” he answers. “It has a lot of my personal favorites in here.”


“Will you read me another poem?” I ask, sheepish after telling him how I hated poetry last time.


He smirks, clearly remembering the same thing I am, but his expression quickly shifts to one of approval.


“Any requests?”


I shake my head. “Just whatever you think I might like.” Anything to get my mind to stop spinning.


He absentmindedly scratches his short beard before seemingly coming to a decision. The rustle of his fingers flipping through the pages is the only sound in the room aside from the soft crackling of the fire.


“This is one you’ll probably know, but it’s one of my favorites,” he says. The seconds seem to stretch between us as he inhales and begins reading.




“It was many and many a year ago,

In a kingdom by the sea,

That a maiden there lived whom you may know

By the name of Annabel Lee;

And this maiden she lived with no other thought

Than to love and be loved by me.”


How is it that Ambrose’s voice has the power to make the words seem alive, to send them straight into the deepest parts of me? Even in the short phrases, I can feel the pain of the narrator, his words channeling that feeling within me I try so hard to suppress.




“But our love it was stronger by far than the love

Of those who were older than we⁠—

Of many far wiser than we⁠—

And neither the angels in Heaven above

Nor the demons down under the sea

Can ever dissever my soul from the soul

Of the beautiful Annabel Lee.”


Fuck. The power of that one stanza squeezes my heart in my chest. It says so much about enduring, eternal love.


Ambrose continues reading, the cadence and gentleness of his voice hypnotic. The poem is short, but every rhythmic line seems to intensify the emotions building within me. The words wrap around my heart and shift something inside me.


The poem is over only a few lines later, and just like the last night he read to me, we sit in silence for a few moments as I let the heaviness of the words sink in. The ultimate tragedy of love.


For some reason, my eyes burn with tears, and I fight to keep them from falling. What the hell is wrong with me?


When he lifts his gaze after closing the book, though, I don’t look away. Because in his eyes, I see the same depth of emotion, and it makes me wonder what these words mean to him. There has to be a reason he chose this one, of all the poems he could have picked.


The words don’t hurt me in the same way they might pain someone else. Though I can feel the despair resonating in every line, I realize that I have never loved in this way. I’ve never felt the all-encompassing love that would rip my heart out to lose. I think I loved Joel at one point, but it was never a love like that. It was a spark of attraction coupled with my hope for a better future, and we followed the typical steps of a relationship until I realized he wasn’t what I’d wanted after it was too late.


I’ve hardly even thought about him since I’ve been here except for in passing and in worrying about him finding me. My heart is not any less whole after leaving him.


And if I’m being honest, I’ve always yearned for that type of all-consuming love, even if it ends in inevitable heartbreak. The type of love that leaves you breathless, that turns your world upside down and changes you entirely. A love that’s visceral in every sense of the word.


I’m just not entirely sure that sort of love exists in the real world. But looking at Ambrose right now makes me wonder…


“What does it mean to you?” I finally ask. The emotion in his eyes indicates that it means something to him.


He’s silent for a moment before he sighs and answers, “This poem encompasses the feeling of losing the person you love in such a beautiful, melancholy way. The fear and despair of losing them, and the bittersweetness of knowing they’ll always be in your heart long after they’re gone.”


He doesn’t meet my eyes, and it’s the first time I think I’ve seen this sort of raw vulnerability from him. It’s then that it hits me how much he’s probably lost. When you can live forever, there’s no end to the number of people you can love and lose.


“Who was she?” I ask. “The woman you think about when you read this?”


“She was my wife. I loved her so much,” he breathes. “But time takes its toll on everyone regardless of how much I wish I could stop it.”


His wife. He was married. Why hadn’t I ever considered that to be a possibility?


“How long ago did you lose her?”


“It’s been fifty years now, and I still think of her every single day.”


I watch his expression but stay silent, giving him the space to say more without pressure.


“We were in our twenties when we got married,” he continues, “and we were so damn happy. There was no warning on the night I died—well, almost died. I had been out chopping wood for the fireplace. One second I was fine, and the next, my heart was giving out. When I was given the choice to pass on or stay in this life for as long as I wanted to, I couldn’t give up the chance to live out the rest of my days with her. She was a beacon of light in this world.”


“It sounds like she had a full life with you, at least. That had to have been worth it.”


“It was,” he agrees. “She didn’t pass until she was in her nineties, and we lived a long and beautiful life together. Losing her was the hardest thing I’ve ever gone through. She’s buried out by the old church in the woods.”


My heart splinters with each additional word he speaks. He’s so vulnerable and emotionally raw that I worry I’ll break the moment if I speak. I nod, though, wanting him to know I’m listening, even if I can’t imagine what it would be like to lose someone you love so whole-heartedly. It’s no wonder he keeps this house considering the memories it probably holds.


Then, it hits me. “She was the one in the picture by your bed.”


He nods. “Yes.”


I had wrongly assumed it was his grandma or mother when I first saw it, but it all makes sense now.


“Sometimes I wish I could follow her,” he admits, his voice cracking. He doesn’t have to clarify what he means, because I know exactly how it feels to long for death. But there couldn’t be more of a difference between us. He wants to die in hopes of finding his wife on the other side after having lived a long, full life with her. I had wanted to die because I had lost all hope and was desperate for any sort of escape.


“Why didn’t you?” I ask.


“Because I have no clue if there is an afterlife, and if there is, I don’t think I’d be going to the same one as her.”


“So you choose to stay here because you’re scared of what lies beyond.”


“Yes. The same as any other person, really. Nobody wants to die because they’re terrified of what the afterlife might hold, and they’re even more afraid that it might simply be nothing. None of us fear death so much as we fear oblivion.”


I nod in agreement. “That makes sense,” is all I say. It’s true, though. When I had attempted suicide, I forced myself not to think about whatever might come next. It was a rash decision brought on by total hopelessness, and, surprisingly, one I don’t think I’ll make again. Whether it’s the promise of freedom or the tiniest bit of comfort I have here, I no longer need to fight the call of the void. My mind is often still cloaked in that familiar darkness I’ve come to know, but it’s lightened considerably in the recent weeks.


Ambrose speaks again, his voice still heavy with emotion. “I don’t want to die, because if it turns out that there’s nothingness after this life, then her memory will be lost forever. Right now, I’m the only one keeping it alive.”


I never would have guessed there would be so much pain inside him, but tonight, he’s exposing a different side of himself. Someone who’s vulnerable, someone who’s more human than creature. Someone who has loved deeply.


It breaks my heart in a million different ways. Before I can think about what I’m doing, I reach forward and lay a hand on his knee.


“I’d be willing to bet anything that she’d be happy to know how much you love her. But I also think she wouldn’t want you to agonize over any decisions about the continuation of your life because of her.”


He nods and looks into my eyes for the first time since the conversation started. “Thank you. That means more to me than you know.” His eyes are shining, and I’m not sure if it’s from tears or the firelight reflecting in his eyes.


“So, is that the only reason you’re still living, then?”


“No. Before she passed, she made me promise to continue living until life held no more novelty. Maybe that’s part of the reason I came back to this cabin and isolated myself so much. Novelty is difficult to find when you follow the same routine and never push past your comfort zone. But somehow, I managed to find something unexpected anyway.”


I want to ask what he means, but I’m scared I already know the answer. So instead, I ask, “So she knew about your… situation?” I ask.


“Yes. She knew what I was, and she loved me anyway.”


“She loved you because of who you are, not in spite of what you are.” I speak before I can consider the implications of the words, but even as we sit in the heavy silence, I don’t regret saying them.


I had thought he was a monster—and maybe he is—but there’s still a piece of him deep down that’s human. Someone who has experienced the depths of emotion in love and loss, joy and heartbreak.


His eyes never leave mine, but the corner of his lips twitch into an almost-smile when he says, “The heart has its reasons which reason knows nothing of.” I’m not sure who he’s quoting despite the words sounding vaguely familiar, but with the way he says it, I can’t help but wonder if he’s saying multiple things at once.


I just wish I could figure out what they are.


The moment is so raw, so real, that we’re both frozen, and time slows.


The fire pops and crackles, punctuating the heavy silence between us. My hand still rests on his knee, and the warmth of his skin radiates through his pants. I should move it, should maintain the distance between us, but I can't bring myself to break this connection.


“This is dangerous,” he whispers, so low I wonder if I was meant to hear it.


I say nothing.


The firelight dances across his features, highlighting the sharp angles of his face. Without thinking, I reach up and trace my fingers along his jaw, feeling the rough scratch of his stubble against my fingertips.


He catches my wrist, but doesn't pull my hand away. “Brielle,” he warns. “Don't start something you're not ready for.”


“I’m not starting anything,” I murmur. “I’m just… trying to understand.”


“Understand what?”


“You.”


His thumb slowly brushes against my wrist, and my breath stutters. My heart pounds hard and fast against my ribcage, and every logical thought that cautions me this is a terrible idea flies out of my head. His hand moves from my wrist to cup my face, and I lean into his touch instinctively.


“Tell me to stop,” he whispers as he leans in, his face inches from mine.


But I don't want him to stop. For the first time in so long, I want something purely for myself, consequences be damned. I shake my head slightly, my eyes never leaving his.


When his lips finally meet mine, it's gentle at first, questioning. But then I press closer, and the kiss deepens. We’ve opened the floodgates, and now there’s no turning back. Ambrose reaches up to thread his fingers through my hair, and we’re overtaken by urgency, overwhelmed with desperation and desire.


I lose myself in his touch, and the seconds stretch into minutes as he claims me in a way I can’t explain. Every part of me is drawn to him despite how dangerous this is. I can’t bring myself to care. This is everything I’ve never allowed myself to dream of.


Time passes in slow motion before he finally pulls away. Our eyes lock, and something inside me shifts as he brushes a long strand of my messy hair behind my ear.


It only takes a few more seconds for the spell to be broken. As if just realizing what he did, Ambrose stands, and takes a step back.


“We shouldn’t have done that.”


“Probably not,” I answer.


He takes a deep breath and runs his hand through his hair. “I think we should both get some sleep. I’m sorry.”


And with that, he disappears into his bedroom, closing the door behind him and leaving me reeling in the silence of the living room and wondering what I did wrong.



OceanofPDF.com

c2DM





CHAPTER 28


This is all a game to him. I need to remember that. The night we kissed, where he read poetry to me and opened up about his past, was too real, too intimate. It might’ve been real in the moment, but as quickly as it happened, it was over.


Since the night he kissed me then abruptly left me wondering what the hell went wrong, he’s been distant. He’s slipped back into his old ways, acting aloof in the most frustrating way possible. My attempt to talk to him about the situation was met with a sarcastic quip and a dismissive wave, and that was enough for me.


If he thinks I’m going to beg at his feet just because he kissed me, he has another thing coming. I’m done hurting myself to feed men’s egos, and I refuse to beg for affection that isn’t freely given. It just means I need to guard my heart more with him, because it’s easier for me to keep him at an arm’s length than to sit in limbo wondering if he cares for me as anything more than his captive.


My resolve only strengthens the further I get from the house, leaves crunching underfoot as I make my way down the path to the old church. The trees are layered in brilliant shades of red and gold, but the dry, brown leaves cracking under my shoe serve as a reminder that the beauty won’t last long.


I sense their presence before I see them. The forest goes uncannily silent, just as it did the last time the angels appeared, and I nervously scan the woods around me.


Even though I intentionally came out here to meet them, my heart races and nerves flutter in my stomach. I’m not sure why.


When I round the corner, I find them in the same spot as before, and I brace myself for this conversation.


“Hello, Brielle,” Samuel says.


“Hello.”


“Have you found the item we have asked you for?”


I shake my head. “No, I’m sorry. I came out here to tell you I can’t help you.”


“But you do know what it is,” the other man says. The way his gaze bores into me, as if he’s reading my thoughts, sends a chill down my spine. I really hope he can’t read my thoughts.


I pause for a second too long, because Samuel raises his eyebrows in surprise. “Interesting…” he muses. “You know, but you’re not willing to tell us. Your guilt is written all over your face.”


“I just can’t get caught up in this,” I say. “I’m just a woman who has barely survived life thus far, and I can’t pick sides on some supernatural rivalry.”


“This is more than some simple rivalry,” Samuel argues. “Innocent people are dying, and the blood will be on your hands as much as his if this continues. You’re guilty by association and by withholding the truth.”


“I’m sorry. I just can’t.” I don’t tell him that there’s already blood on my hands, as he doesn’t seem to know the details of the deal I made with Ambrose. And I definitely won’t admit that it doesn’t bother me as much as it should. The power and adrenaline that coursed through me when I killed those wretched men was intoxicating, and the guilt that may accompany it is simply a temporary side effect.


“I know it’s hard for you to trust us,” Samuel coaxes. “You’ve been manipulated and lied to by one of the most manipulative creatures on this earth, and you’re feeling conflicted. But maybe we can sweeten the deal for you.”


His words pique my interest, even though I know it’s a ploy to get me on their side. But I simply shake my head again, even as my resolve wavers. Am I really going to choose the side of evil in the fight of good versus evil simply because it’s easier? Because he kissed me and told me about his dead wife? Does my lack of willingness to help them make me just as bad as the men I’ve killed?


At some point, enabling evil becomes just as bad as committing the sins yourself.


But Ambrose isn’t evil, I reason with myself. At least, not entirely. I may be rightfully pissed off at him right now, but that doesn’t mean he deserves to have all his power taken away.


“You’ll have to find a way to do it on your own,” I answer, turning away to walk back the way I came.


“We’ll give you one last chance,” he shouts after me. “One more meeting, exactly one month from now. We can provide you with the means to start life anew, erase your name from others’ memory and provide you with the funds to leave.”


I pause and face them again. “You can do that?”


“Our powers cannot, but we have many powerful connections who can.”


The thought wraps around my mind and doesn’t let go. A new life where I don’t have to constantly look over my shoulder and worry about being found. After all, a significant part of the reason I attempted to kill myself was because I thought there was no other way out. Now, I’m being offered not only that, but an additional layer of freedom.


It’s incredibly tempting.


“I’ll consider it,” I answer truthfully before I head back down the path.


Just like last time, the sounds of the woods come alive again as soon as the angels are out of sight, as if the switch of a stereo has been flipped.


As I walk to the house, I allow myself to consider what I would do and where I would go if I were to accept the angels’ offer. The possibilities are endless.


I could have the life I’ve secretly dreamed of for years. All they need is Ambrose’s necklace.



OceanofPDF.com

c2EW





CHAPTER 29


Despite my desire to stay far away from Ambrose, the frigid autumn nights are pushing us closer together. My room feels too cold and empty for me to do anything more than sleep in it, so I’ve been gravitating to the fireplace downstairs, where Ambrose is always sitting in the study or the living room with a book. Sometimes it’s his notebook propped up on his knee as he writes in it, and other times he’s lost in a novel.


I wish I could hate him still. I wish I was full of rage and resentment, but he makes it impossible to hold a grudge. We still haven’t spoken about the kiss or his reaction afterward, but we’ve settled back into some semblance of normalcy. We cook together, watch movies, and prepare for the impending winter. I’ve done more research on my next victims to fulfill my end of the deal, but escaping from here seems less urgent than it did before.


Maybe I’m delusional, but the comfort I feel here is one I’ve never had the privilege of having. Even though Ambrose gets on my every last nerve sometimes, I know I’m safe. He’s proven to me over and over again that not only will he not harm me, but he will care for me when needed. It’s odd feeling a sense of safety with a man who meant to kill me only a few short months ago.


Ambrose has been reading to me by the light of the fire most nights, and it’s a soothing way to escape all of my thoughts for a while. Sometimes it’s poetry, but lately it’s often been chapters from The Count of Monte Cristo. It’s a story of love, betrayal, power, and revenge, which makes me wonder if Ambrose chose it for a reason. It’s a little too fitting for the current situation.


Then again, it seems he chooses every piece of literature he reads to me with intentionality.


One evening, I’m curled up on the couch and watching an old black and white movie flicker across the grainy TV screen, but I can’t focus. I’m too lost in thought as my final meeting with the angels looms over me. It’s only two weeks away.


Despite what they might have promised me and how tempting that offer may be, I’m still not sure I can go through with giving up information about Ambrose to them. I’m not sure why, considering it’s a small piece of information weighted against the idea of me actively withholding the truth from literal angels.


But by now, I’m going to Hell anyway, so I may as well make the most of it, right?


“You remind me of her sometimes,” Ambrose says softly from his place at the other end of the couch.


From the solemn tenderness in his voice, I don’t have to ask who he means. “How so?”


“You’re always stuck in your own head, thinking about much more than you let on but staying quiet unless you feel you have something important to say.”


I shrug. “A lot of people are like that.”


“I’m not done,” he says gently. “There’s a fire inside you that you think you hide so well, but I see it burning anyway. Yet you’ve spent your life tempering that flame to appease everyone else.”


I don’t know what to say. I can only nod. I grew up with parents who never wanted me, so I’d learned to stay quiet and out of the way. When I found Joel, he’d shown me so much positive attention that maybe I mistook it for love. With him, too, I found myself shrinking to fit into his view of what I should be rather than who I wanted to be.


“You’ve spent so long trying to make yourself invisible, but I see you, even when you don’t want me to. Especially when you don’t want me to,” Ambrose says.


I swallow past the knot in my throat and turn my head to face him. The guilt from considering the angels’ offer, of selling him out, sits heavy on my chest when I notice the gentleness in his eyes as he stares right back at me.


It’s the same look he had given me the night he kissed me, but it’s laced with a soft sort of sorrow.


“Is that why you brought me here?” I ask. “Because I remind you of her?” I don’t say the next thought aloud—that I hate the idea of being a replacement for the woman he once loved simply because I resemble her in some ways. That he might have thought he could find a hint of his past love through me rather than caring about me for who I really am.


“No. It’s not something I even realized until very recently.”


“Then why me? Why did you trick me into coming here?”


He takes a deep breath, as if considering his next words carefully. “When I had gone to the city, I was planning on killing a man who I’d seen doing some awful things. But I was also wandering, getting my fill of society before going back home. It can get so lonely here sometimes. But I just happened to see you as I was walking down the street, and you sparked my interest.”


“I sparked your interest?” It seems ridiculous that I, of all the people he’d come across in a city, would stand out to him.


“Yes,” he admits. “Not because I wanted to kill you, though. You fascinated me. You were beautiful, but you seemed so intent on making yourself invisible that, ironically, I couldn’t help but notice. I started following you out of mere curiosity, wondering what could drive you to such obvious sorrow. But the more I watched you, the more I started to see the signs that you might end your own life, and there was nothing I could do about it.”


The longer he speaks, the more my heart shatters. Not only because he had to see me at the lowest point in my life, but because he saw the signs when no one else did—not even my own husband.


“I was clinging to such a tiny thread of hope for so long, but it snapped so easily. At the end I started questioning whether or not you were real,” I tell him. “I thought maybe you were some angel of death there to take me away. I guess I wasn’t entirely wrong.” I manage a weak laugh.


“It broke my heart to watch you do that to yourself. I knew it was coming, which is why I used my abilities to sneak into your house the day it happened. Joel didn’t accidentally leave his badge on the counter. I put it there.”


“You didn’t,” I whisper.


He nods. “I did. I had to make a choice in that moment to either take the years of your life that you were throwing away or to give you a fighting chance.”


He saved me. I swallow past the hard knot forming in my throat and manage to whisper, “Thank you.”


There’s a beat of silence before he asks, “Why did you feel like suicide was your only option?”


Well, I guess we’re not mincing words tonight. “Everything just felt so fucking hopeless. You saw what sort of situation I was in. My husband had promised me a beautiful life so long ago, and I got stuck with him after he slowly isolated me from everyone and everything else. I had tried to leave once and go to a shelter, but he found me, and he hurt me so badly that I couldn’t risk trying to leave and getting caught again. It’s hard enough to leave a relationship like that in any normal circumstance, but it’s even harder when the man you’re trying to leave holds so much power and influence. I’d already been struggling with depression for years, and it just got worse and worse until I hit my breaking point.”


“And what about now?” He asks. “Do you still feel that way?”


I pause for a moment to consider my words. “No. I do think there will always be that little bit of darkness—it’s not something that simply goes away—but I don’t feel as crushed by the weight of it as I did before. It’s like a fog now that comes and goes rather than a brick wall. Life feels possible again.”


“It sounds like you’ve been dealt a bad hand in life, but I genuinely hope it’s an upward trajectory from here. It is an act of rebellion and strength to continue living in a world so intent on knocking you down.”


“Who do you target when you take lives?” I ask, because I’m suddenly desperate to change the subject and suppress the tears welling in my eyes. The topic of murder feels like the most obvious juxtaposition to the raw emotion overwhelming me.


“For a long time, I had the same sort of vengeful streak you seem to be on,” he says with a low chuckle. “Killing people who had done such vile things that I thought the world would be better off without them.”


“And now?”


“Now, I’ve slowed down on it a lot since I accumulated so many years of life in my earlier days. It’s only about once a year, and it’s rarely something I plan. I suppose I just have the tendency to gravitate toward death.”


His response makes me wonder if there’s sort of supernatural pull there, that maybe he’s drawn to death—was drawn to me—in some wild twist of fate.


We’re both silent for a long time before I say, “You didn’t have to trick me into a deal with you. I would have come with you and stayed willingly.”


He hesitates, opening his mouth as if there’s something he wants to say but can’t find the right words. But he says nothing. He simply moves to join me on the couch, pulls my body close to his, and wraps me in his arms, though there’s a tension tightening his muscles.


“I’m glad you’re here,” he murmurs.


Despite my reluctance to get close to him, I lean into his side and rest my head on his chest. I shouldn’t be allowing myself this sort of vulnerability around him. I keep telling myself the same thing—that I need to keep my walls up—but he seems to break them down so easily. My eyes close as I soak in the heat of his body and ground myself in the steady rhythm of his slow breaths.


And for a moment, I can pretend like everything is alright. Like this is a life I chose, one where I’m safe and content and loved. Nothing exists outside the two of us in this quiet, cozy cabin.


Ambrose’s tension slowly dissipates before he lifts his hand and absentmindedly runs his fingers through my hair, and the gentle gesture almost brings tears to my eyes. If only this was more than a fleeting moment; if only this was real…


It won’t last, and I know that, but pretending I chose this makes it hurt just a little bit less.



OceanofPDF.com

c2GM





CHAPTER 30


I’ve started thinking bigger lately. Not just about my own existence on this planet, but about how I can fulfill my lifelong goal of making the world a better place. Ironically enough, I’ve managed to work toward that goal through this deal I’ve made with Ambrose.


Killing men who make people’s lives worse might be a controversial way to make the world a better place, but it makes sense to me. If one person is terrible enough to cause so much pain and suffering, their erasure from this earth will prevent any future misdeeds, rights? The guilt I’ve felt after killing both the bartender and the pastor are outweighed by the satisfaction of knowing they won’t cause harm to any more people.


But like I said, I’ve been thinking bigger…


The bartender and the pastor were a good start as victims. The bartender hurt women in the community; the pastor took advantage of the elderly. Now, after hours of research on my tablet, I have my next target: a slimy politician who intentionally and systemically harms entire communities. It’s not like killing one (or even ten) of them will make a difference in the political climate—they’re like cockroaches, where even when one gets squished, there are ten more lurking in the dark—but it’ll at least cause panic and fear in those similar to him, wondering if they’re next.


I’ve been doing my research over the past week to figure out what Edward Abbot does in and out of office. The words on my screen blur together as I scroll through yet another article about Senator Abbott’s latest proposed legislation. My head throbs with a mixture of rage and disgust as I read his quotes, each one more callous than the last.


“Most claims of mental illness are simply excuses made by those who would rather stay home and take advantage of government handouts,” he proclaimed at a recent rally. “These people don't need government handouts or crisis hotlines. They need to get off their couches and do some hard work like the rest of us.”


The ignorance of his statement makes me want to scream. Mental health has only worsened over the recent years, but instead of looking for the true cause of this crisis, people like him turn those who are suffering into the enemy.


It’s so fucking predictable. Men like him control the masses by placing blame for society’s issues on a small or struggling portion of the population rather than trying to do something about it. It’s easier to turn people against each other than it is to make systemic change, and that’s exactly what they count on.


In another tab on my tablet, his latest budget proposal is open. The numbers are bleak. Millions slashed from mental health programs, addiction treatment centers closed, crisis intervention services gutted. All while he preaches about society’s “lack of discipline” from his ivory tower, his own pockets lined with “donations” from pharmaceutical companies and private prison contractors.


“The weak-minded are destroying our country,” reads another quote, this one from a committee hearing where he argued against funding for psychiatric care in low-income communities. My fingers tighten around my mug of now-cold coffee as I imagine them wrapping around his throat instead.


The more I dig, the deeper the corruption goes. Campaign contributions from companies that profit from human suffering. Backdoor deals that funnel money away from social services and into private enterprises. All while he stands at podiums, condemning those who are suffering as morally deficient.


My research shows he'll be speaking at a rally next week four hours from here. Security will probably be tight, but men like him always have weak spots. Their arrogance makes them careless, and their sense of superiority blinds them to danger. I've learned that much from my previous kills.


This one needs to be different though, more meaningful. His death needs to send a message to others like him, make them feel the fear they so casually inflict on others. Make them understand that their actions have consequences.


I open a new page in my notebook and begin to write, listing out potential ways to make this happen. From the videos I’ve watched and photos I’ve seen, he has security personnel, but usually only a couple standing guard along the outskirts of the room. It shouldn’t be too difficult for me to blend in before slipping past them.


As I’ve done more research and made more plans, I’ve realized something: I’m not killing with reluctance anymore. I’m fueled by vengeance and bloodlust for all the people who have made this world a terrible place. Turning corrupt, powerful men into helpless victims is a challenge I’ll happily take.


My hand cramps from gripping my pen by the time I have everything written out.


His speech will be held in the Grand Ballroom of one of the largest and most expensive hotels in the city. I study the layout of the ballroom and the hotel on their website, hoping my assumption that he’ll stay there for the night is correct.


In my research, I also note that Senator Abbott’s wife and kids are rarely seen at his events. Probably for the best, considering what I intend to do.


I close my notebook and head downstairs once I feel content that my plan will work. Ambrose is in his usual spot by the fireplace with a book open in his lap. The flames throw shadows across his face, and I’m struck by how beautiful he is. After our kiss and our heartfelt conversations, it’s become harder to ignore the way his gaze makes my stomach swoop and his touch sparks against my skin.


“I have a question,” I say, perching on the arm of the couch.


“Yes?”


“You say I can only be away from you for a day or so before it becomes a problem, right?”


He hesitates. “It’s not an exact amount of time, but approximately, yes.”


“Well, in that case, can I interest you in going somewhere with me this weekend?”


Closing his book, he pins me with a questioning look. “Where to?”


I explain my plan to go to the city that’s a few hours’ drive away and that I have my next target in mind, but that I’d prefer to scope everything out the night before. He listens silently as I explain my desire to kill the senator, though I get more worked up as I list all the vile things he’s said over the past few months.


“So, will you go?” I ask when he’s silent after my unintended monologue.


“I will. But only if I can go to the event with you,” he says.


“Deal. Just stay out of my way.”



OceanofPDF.com

c2HV





CHAPTER 31


“When one with honeyed words but evil mind persuades the mob, great woes befall the state.”


—Euripides


The marble floors of the hotel lobby click beneath my heels as I find a seat with a clear view of the entrance. The hotel lives up to its photos, with ornate fixtures and an elegant atmosphere that makes me feel entirely too out of place sitting in the lobby, even in my dress and heels.


Hours pass, and I sip coffee from the small cafe next door, trying to make it last as I watch a steady stream of guests and staff pass through the lobby. But as time ticks by, I begin to wonder if I was wrong, if he isn’t staying in this hotel. From what I found online, he had stayed here last time he was in the city, but that doesn’t necessarily mean he’d stay here again.


Just as I’m beginning to doubt my entire plan, Senator Abbott sweeps through the doors, accompanied by two security men in dark suits. He’s shorter than I imagined, though his waxy skin is folded into wrinkles at the edges of his beady eyes and corners of his lips from a career of feigned smiles. He carries himself with the same self-importance I’d expected from a man like him.


The necklace’s magic hums through my veins as I walk to the ATM beside the front desk, willing the attention of anyone who looks this way to pass over me.


I strain my ears as he approaches the check-in area, keeping my head down but my senses alert.


The receptionist greets him warmly, and he hands over his credit card while making small talk, looking and sounding every bit the typical politician.


“We have you in the twentieth-floor suite,” the receptionist tells him as she hands over the key card. “We hope you enjoy your stay, and please don’t hesitate to let us know if there’s anything you need.”


“Excellent,” he responds.


I fight the urge to approach him now and end this today, but I remind myself to be patient. It will be more impactful to carry out my plan after his speech tomorrow, when his guard is down and his ego is high.


Once he disappears into the elevator, I gather my things and walk the few blocks to a run-down motel where a flickering neon sign in the window advertises, “We Accept Cash.”


Thankfully, Ambrose booked us separate rooms, so I don’t have to worry about him being a nuisance tonight. But with the day still ahead of us, I knock on his door and listen as his footsteps approach from the other side.


“How lovely to see you, Brielle.” He smirks, as if we didn’t see each other a few hours ago when we checked into the hotel together. Always a flair for the dramatic with him.


“Stop being ridiculous and let me in,” I respond, but I can’t help but smile back.


That evening, we walk through the city and have dinner together, discussing plans for tomorrow. We’ve decided that he’ll help by keeping lookout, with a few additional options in mind depending on how the evening goes. He had gotten me a pre-paid cell phone for safety purposes as well, so I’m able to text him if needed.


Aside from murder being the topic of discussion, the evening almost feels like a normal date with a normal man, and I find myself wondering what it would be like to do this more often with him.


When we head back to our respective hotel rooms after having a couple drinks at the bar beside the restaurant, I’m almost sad to part. It’s been a long time since I’ve gotten to spend time in a public place without worrying about keeping up appearances. It’s just us.


The next day, I wake up early and slip into a black dress that hugs my curves while maintaining just enough propriety to blend in with the crowd. The necklace sits cool against my chest beneath the dress’s high neckline.


Today’s the day.


Ambrose and I walk to the hotel, and the ballroom is packed by the time Abbott takes the stage. The crowd emanates an almost frenzied energy that makes me uncomfortable, especially knowing they’re all here to feed off of his negativity.


The thunderous applause dies down, and Senator Abbott speaks. He starts strongly enough, with practiced professionalism, but the speech quickly devolves into his typical bullshit.


“We need to do something about the people in this country,” he declares, his voice booming through the speakers. “For too long, we've enabled weakness. We've coddled those who refuse to help themselves.”


The crowd around me cheers, and my fists clench at my sides. All the people applauding and whooping make me nauseous. How can people pretend to care about the wellbeing of their country while simultaneously wanting to case aside or punish anyone who needs help? If you only want those who are already well-off to thrive, that’s not patriotism; it’s a superiority complex.


“These parasites drain our resources,” he continues, and more cheers erupt. “They want handouts while the rest of us put in hard work. They claim mental health issues when what they really need is faith!”


I think about all the nights I spent hiding my breakdowns in the safety of my bathroom, having no one to go to for help. How desperate I felt when I was falling apart a little more every day. I never wanted anything but to feel safe, to have somewhere to go when I felt utterly alone. I remember the shame that overtook me when I was told my depression was a moral failing by the man who was supposed to support me most.


The words that Senator Abbott is using now are the same ones Joel had used to convince me I was broken, that I deserved the abuse because I wasn’t strong enough, wasn’t motivated enough, wasn’t good enough.


The longer he speaks, the more my stomach turns with revulsion. What kind of monster would want to take away programs that help people while funding ones that add more stress to the majority of society?


My jaw hurts from clenching my teeth so hard, until something warm touches me. Ambrose slips his hand in mine and squeezes, letting me know he’s here for me while the man on stage proudly proclaims that my existence is a burden on society.


When the speech finally ends to thunderous applause, the crowd surges forward, eager to speak to the senator. But I hang back with Ambrose beside me, watching as Abbott works the room. Finally, with the crowd thinning, he leaves the ballroom.


Ambrose and I follow him from a distance, watching as he enters the steakhouse on the second floor with a handful of people.


We decide to eat there as well, opting for a table in a back corner to keep watch.


When dinner is over and the senator receives his bill, I take that as my cue.


I slip into the shadows, using the necklace’s power to conceal myself as much as possible, while Ambrose heads downstairs to see if he can disable the security cameras from the control room. We aren’t relying on that part of the plan working, but we’re hoping the combination of his charisma, manipulation skills, and magic—still present but dulled without use of the necklace—will be enough to get him in. Worst case scenario, our figures should be hazy on the cameras between his abilities and the artifact I’m channeling the power through.


The elevator doors open with a soft ding, and I step inside, alone and heading straight to the twentieth floor.


When I step out into the hallway, I take a deep breath and prepare myself to put on the act I’ve plotted. Maybe one day I’ll stop playing the role of a woman down on her luck and vulnerable, but it’s so easy to play the same character when I know men will take advantage of it every time.


I smudge my mascara slightly under my eyes, slump my shoulders, and cross my arms tight over my chest as I lean against the wall right outside the elevator alcove.


When the elevator door dings, I jump slightly, overreactive from nervous anticipation, but I maintain my forlorn appearance. In my periphery, Senator Abbott rounds the corner, and I can tell he’s alone. Thank God for that.


As he passes, I sniffle for added effect and raise my head to make eye contact with him. With the power from the necklace, I project my presence toward him, willing him to notice me. Ambrose had said the power works to both avoid and attract attention, after all.


His gaze latched onto me, his eyes raking over my tight dress and then my face. As expected, he stops to speak to me.


“Rough night?” he asks, his voice filled with false concern.


I offer a weak smile. “That obvious, huh?”


He chuckles before glancing over his shoulder to make sure no one else is in the hall. “Forgive me if this is too forward, but can I ask what’s wrong?”


“My boyfriend was supposed to meet me here tonight,” I say, letting my voice waver slightly. “We planned this whole weekend in the city, but he cancelled last minute. We've been fighting a lot lately…”


“His loss,” Abbott says, his eyes lingering on the hemline of my dress. “Any man who'd stand up a woman like you clearly doesn't deserve her.”


My stomach churns at his obvious leering, but I force myself to smile. “That's kind of you to say. I just… I don't know. Sometimes I think relationships are harder these days because people expect everything to be handed to them. He just doesn’t want to work for it.”


His eyes light up at the familiar talking point, just like I knew they would. “That’s exactly how I feel. Nobody wants to work for anything these days, and it’s a shame your boyfriend doesn’t work as hard as he should for your attention.”


I nod fervently. “You’re right. I don’t deserve that. What did you say your name was again?” I ask, as if I haven’t been researching him for a week.


He hesitates, clearly debating on whether he should use his prestige to his advantage or not risk giving away who he is.


“Ed,” he finally answers. “And I happen to be free for the rest of the night if you’d like to continue this conversation over a drink. I’m in the suite at the end of the hall here,” he adds, gesturing to his left.


I pretend to hesitate, then answer with feigned resolve, “You know what? That would be nice. It's better than sitting alone in my room feeling sorry for myself.”


He smiles, and my stomach churns at the idea of being alone with him, even for a moment.


He leads the way down the hallway, yammering on about this generation and their lack of family values, and I pretend to care.


At his door, he swipes the key card and gestures for me to enter first. “After you.”


I step into the silence of his suite, my mind racing as I take in the space and contemplate the best way to put my plan in action.


I’m in control, even if he doesn’t know it yet, and I’m determined to drag this out with painful precision. He deserves to suffer.



OceanofPDF.com

c2KZ





CHAPTER 32


“He who fights with monsters might take care lest he thereby become a monster. And if you gaze for long into an abyss, the abyss gazes also into you.”


–Friedrich Nietzsche


“Would you like a drink?” Senator Abbott asks as he leads me toward the kitchenette area. The suite is massive, with a living room, a small dining table, a kitchenette, and a separate bedroom.


“Not yet, but thank you.”


“Suit yourself.” He shrugs and pours himself a glass of whiskey before gesturing to the couch in the living room.


I take a deep breath and follow his lead, still nodding politely and pretending to care about the stupid shit he’s saying while shoving down the revulsion flooding through me.


When I perch on the far end of the couch, he sits too close for comfort, and his thick, heavy cologne nearly chokes me.


“You're even more beautiful up close,” he says with a slimy smile as he places a hand on my knee. It’s a test to see how much I’ll let him get away with, and I swallow my pride and manage not to flinch.


My skin crawls at his touch, but I force myself to smile back. “Thank you.”


His hand inches further up my thigh as he asks me questions about who I am, what I do for work, and where I’m from. I lie easily, but my mind is on the knife in my purse.


This time, I have a real plan. I’m just not sure if it will work.


Panic flutters in my chest as I realize just how much larger he is than me, how easily he could overpower me if he chose to. For a moment, I'm back in my house with Joel, overwhelmed by the same helpless terror.


But I'm not that girl anymore.


I'm the hunter now, not the prey.


When his fingers slip under the hem of my dress, I laugh nervously and scoot back. He takes it as a challenge, closing the small gap I’ve put between us and becoming more aggressive with his movements, grabbing the hem of my dress to yank it up and groping my hips and thighs. His hot breath hits my face, and I hold back a gag.


“Wait,” I say. I’m breathless, but with fear rather than the eagerness he probably assumes from me.


He pauses, his hands still too high on my thigh.


“If… if this is going to continue, I have a request.” I cast my eyes downward, chewing on my lip as if I’m embarrassed to say what’s on my mind. If this is going to work, I need to play my role perfectly.


His eyebrows rise when I take a peek up at him. “Oh, really? And what might that be?”


“Maybe I shouldn’t say,” I rush out. “It’s embarrassing. Never mind.”


“No, tell me,” he coaxes.


And just like that, I’ve got him right where I want him. His curiosity is piqued enough that he won’t want to let it go, and his ego is big enough that he’ll feel proud that I was willing to confess this desire to him.


“Um, it’s just a fantasy I’ve kind of always wanted to try in the bedroom. My boyfriend would never let me do it, though.”


“Go on.” He squeezes my thigh, and I suppress a shudder.


Again, I look away, feigning sheepishness. “I—I want to be in control in the bedroom. I just love the idea of tying up a man who’s as confident and powerful as you. Like a role play situation, I guess.”


My heart skips a beat when I realize my slip-up of calling him “powerful” after pretending not to know who he is all night, but thankfully, he doesn’t seem to notice.


He hesitates, and for a moment, I think he's going to refuse. But then there’s a flicker of intrigue in his eyes along with a slight smile as he considers the proposition. He's used to being the one in charge, clearly, but he also relishes in the idea of indulging in a young woman’s secret fantasy.


“I understand if it's too much to ask. Maybe I shouldn’t have said anything.” The words tumble from my lips as I play the flustered, ashamed woman.


“No, no, it’s not,” he assures me. “I’ve just never done that sort of thing before. But I’ll try anything once.” He winks, and I grin, but not for the reason he thinks. So far, my plan is working perfectly.


My stomach rolls when he leans forward and kisses me, gripping my hips with his grubby hands. His breath reeks of whiskey and the onions he had with his dinner, and I nearly gag as I lean back.


“Should we take this to the bedroom?” I suggest nervously. Anything to get the fuck away from his onion breath and beady eyes.


He agrees, standing, and I follow him to the bedroom on the far side of the living room. As we enter, my eyes land on a tie draped across the back of a chair. Just what I was looking for.


I lift it, turning to face him as he pulls off the one around his neck and tosses that one to me as well. Even better. It’ll be harder for him to slip out of my restraints when I have one for each hand.


Edward wastes no time shrugging out of his slacks and button down, and I avert my eyes as much as possible without being suspicious. Before I know it, he’s lying naked on the bed and stroking his half-hard dick.


Gross.


With both ties in hand, I make it a point to stand at the very edge of the bed to secure his free hand to the thick wooden bed post. I circle the bed to do the same with his right hand when he pulls it away from stroking himself, though I attempt to not touch his palm in the process.


He watches me the entire time, and it makes my skin crawl, but I force a smile and continue to play the part of the nervous but eager young woman.


Once he's secured, I step back to survey my handiwork.


“What do you think?” I ask. “Are they nice and tight?”


He yanks against the restraints, and neither of them budge. “You got me right where you want me,” he teases.


Oh, you bet I do.


I step back, letting my smile fade as I reach into my purse, which I had grabbed before heading into the room. First, I secure my hair into a quick bun with a hair tie, suppressing a shudder as I remember the pastor’s fingers latching on to the loose strands. I won’t risk that happening again.


Edward tracks my movements with appreciation, but his eyes widen when I pull the hunting knife from my purse. Its polished, curved blade seems to glow in the dim lamplight of the bedroom. I had found it in Ambrose’s garage, and after examining the blade, I knew it would work perfectly. The handle has a textured grip, and the blade is long, wide, and razor-sharp.


“What the hell is that?” he asks, panic lacing his tone as he tugs at the ties binding his wrists. The sudden shift in his demeanor is satisfying, his cockiness shifting to agitation in an instant.


I slip out of my heels, tossing the knife sheath beside them on the floor. I need to keep my balance when he starts thrashing around, which I know he will.


“Just a little something I brought along.”


His eyes are wide with terror now, flickering between the knife I’m pretending to examine carefully and my impassive expression. “What are you doing? This isn't funny.”


I smile sweetly, stepping closer to the bed. “I’m not trying to be funny. I'm just fulfilling a fantasy, like I told you.”


Before he can respond, I drag the knife across his chest with just enough pressure to draw a thin line of blood. Not nearly deep enough to do real damage, but enough to hurt just a little. Enough to make him panic. A thin line of blood wells up, stark against his pale skin.


“Fuck!” he bellows, yanking against the restraints. “You crazy bitch! What the fuck are you doing?”


I tilt my head, feigning a look of innocent confusion. “I’m just proving you right, Senator. You said it yourself—people with mental illness are just… what was the phrasing? ‘A burden on society?’ So, I’m showing you just how much of a problem I can be.”


His face contorts with anger and fear as I slash the knife across his torso, leaving another shallow cut. He hisses in pain. “You're fucking insane. Let me go!”


I laugh, and I really do sound like a deranged maniac. The two times I’d killed before this, I’d had brief flickers of guilt and doubt, but not this time. I need to make him suffer. “No, I don’t think I will.”


He spits out a string of curses, writhing as he tries to free himself. I watch him struggle with a sense of detached amusement. This man, who has caused so much suffering, who has used his power to crush the weak and vulnerable, is now reduced to a pitiful, helpless victim.


I bring the knife down again, this time on his upper arm. The blade slices through the skin of his bicep, cutting just a little deeper this time, and he howls in pain. “Please,” he begs. “Please, stop.”


I don’t stop.


The knife swipes over his skin again and again, each cut deeper than the last, and his cries of agony do nothing to deter me. He gasps and shouts and growls out curses, occasionally pleading for me to stop or threatening me.


My only fear is that he’ll break out of his ties, but I made it a point to tie them well and make them tight.


I revel in his suffering. He deserves every excruciating moment a thousand times over.


He’s covered in blood now as the cuts have gone deeper, and it slides down from his stomach and chest in thick rivulets, seeping into the stark white bedsheets beneath.


He tries to kick me, to twist away in any way he can, but I’m too quick, having expected him to lash out in any way he can.


I’m already getting better at anticipating reactions and murdering with precision. Torturing now, too. I’m not sure if I should feel proud or appalled.


I bring the knife to his neck, and he freezes, taking shallow, shaky breaths. The vein in his neck pounds with his rapid pulse. He thinks I’m going to kill him, but I’m not going to give him that mercy… yet.


I lift the knife and dig the blade into his cheek, swiping it down in a sharp stroke, and he chokes out a sob. His eyes squeeze shut, and I replicate the action on his other cheek.


I’d love to pluck out his eye or something, but unfortunately, I don’t have the stomach for that kind of gore, even though I’m resolved to make him suffer as much as possible.


His hands are purple and swollen from thrashing against the tight restraints, and it’s evident by the pure terror in his eyes that he’s realizing he can’t fight this. He’s panting after his desperate attempts at escape and at kicking me, but his wide body prohibits him from bending easily enough to land a kick from where I stand at the side of the bed.


I pause, my chest heaving from the exertion and the adrenaline flooding my veins.


The sound of his whining and pleading is grating on my nerves, and as much as I’d love to torture him all night, a bigger part of me wants to get this over with. Every second I spend in this room is an unnecessary risk at this point, and I know Ambrose will be wondering where I am.


I raise the knife again with calm certainty. My eyes lock on his face, and fear contorts his features into a caricature of his normal self. With a steady hand, I bring the knife down, impaling his stomach. His body convulses beneath me, and I push harder until the hilt hits his skin, feeling the blade slice through muscle and flesh. His screams fill the air, like sweet music to my ears, and I yank it out before stabbing him again.


His already pale skin is ashen and sallow with blood loss, and with one final, savage lunge, I plunge the knife into his chest, right where I’d expect his heart to be. He gasps, his chest rattling with the weak breath, until his breathing stops a few seconds later and he slumps against the bed.


He’s dead.


The remaining life force of the senator floods the stone that’s hanging against my chest, though I surprise myself by caring less about the number of years I’ve gained for the bargain and more about the cruel delight of killing another man who deserved it. The man who once held so much authority is now nothing more than a bloody heap on the hotel bed.


Taking the power away from the men who abuse it is intoxicating, an addiction I fear will only grow now that I’ve tasted the sweet satisfaction of vengeance.


I yank my knife from his chest then wipe it down with the bedsheet before sheathing it and putting it back into my purse.


I’m still breathing hard when the sound of the suite door unlocking echoes like a gunshot in the silence. The heavy wooden door swings open, and a woman appears in my line of sight, directly across the living room. From where the door is, she can see directly into the bedroom behind me, and there’s nowhere for me to run.


I recognize her immediately from the pictures. Senator Abbott’s wife.


Fuck.


Frozen, I simply stand there, expecting her to scream, run, or call the police, but she simply takes in the scene with a blank expression, surveying me as I stand barefoot in the doorway of her husband’s hotel room while he lies dead on the bed and covered in blood behind me.


Her expression remains stoic when she asks, “Is he dead?”


I nod. No point in lying, though I am prepared to run or fight if necessary. I don’t want to kill this woman, but I will if I need to.


As if reading my mind, she asks, “Are you going to kill me too?”


I shake my head. “Not unless I have to, and I really don’t want to.” I did my research into her as well, and she wasn’t supposed to be here tonight, hence my killing him in his hotel room. But one thing I noticed was her total silence when it came to her husband’s policies, and I’m inclined to give her the benefit of the doubt, because I know what it’s like to be married to a powerful man who makes it impossible to leave or speak up.


She’s silent for a moment, nods, then says with resolve, “Okay. I only have a few minutes before I’d realistically need to call the police, so go now. I’ll call them in five minutes, so get somewhere safe.”


“You’re letting me leave?”


“Yes. I don’t know who you are or why you killed him, but he deserved it regardless. I just don’t want to be a suspect, so you need to go fast. Keep your head down and try to keep your face out of the cameras.”


“Cameras have been taken care of,” I say. Hopefully Ambrose was able to follow through on his portion of the job.


She nods. “Then go, and I’ll tell them it was a large man who was fleeing the room.”


“Thank you.” I collect my purse and heels, awkwardly slipping past the woman whose husband I just murdered. She has the same hollowness in her eyes that used to plague me. I can’t help but feel like I’ve done her a favor.


I make a beeline for the stairs, and as soon as I’m inside it, I race down the steps two at a time. When I reach the ground floor, I pause in the stairwell to slip my heels on, take a deep breath, channel the necklace’s powers, then casually stride into the lobby where Ambrose is waiting on a couch. Thank God my dress is black.


I acknowledge him with a subtle nod and a weighted glance, not pausing in my stride toward the automatic sliding doors at the entrance.


He follows, and we make our way stealthily into the night.



OceanofPDF.com

c2R7





CHAPTER 33


"Do you believe in destiny? That even the powers of time can be altered for a single purpose? That the luckiest man who walks on this earth is the one who finds... true love?"


—Bram Stoker


The low drone of the radio over the humming of the car’s engine is the only sound filling the silence of the car. Ambrose and I haven’t spoken much since we left the city a few hours ago after I had filled him in on the details of killing Senator Abbott and getting caught by his wife. After leaving the murder scene, we had walked the few blocks to his car, where I had taken comfortable, clean clothes from my suitcase in the trunk and changed discreetly, not wanting to sit in a blood-spattered dress for a four-hour drive.


About halfway through our drive, I had started shaking. Ambrose had told me it was likely a drop from the adrenaline, so we stopped at a restaurant in a mid-sized city for me to eat something and drink some water. While we sat, Ambrose had used his phone to look up the news about Senator Abbott. Sure enough, they’re searching for a suspect that Senator Abbott’s wife had described as, “a tall man, maybe six feet, wearing a black sweater and jeans.” Some of the articles mention that this was likely a premeditated attack due to the hotel cameras being cut directly before the murder happened.


The news that she had kept her word was enough to calm me down a bit, and the food and water grounded me enough to get my body to a more neutral state.


Now, we’re cruising down the highway as the adrenaline has mostly subsided, though there’s still a low, constant energy buzzing beneath my skin.


The bright red letters on the stereo glow with the time: 3:15 a.m.


I glance over at Ambrose, whose face is illuminated only by the passing streetlights in steady flickers of warm yellow light before becoming shrouded in darkness again. His expression is calm, but his brow is furrowed slightly, as if he’s lost in thought. I want to ask him what he’s thinking about, but it’s rare to catch a glimpse of him with such an unguarded expression, so I say nothing.


The burst of warmth in my chest gives me pause, and I lay my head back against the cool leather of the passenger seat and allow my thoughts to wander after a day of using so much focus. My mind goes to the same place it often does—where will I go when I fulfill my end of our bargain? What will I do with my life when I have the freedom to do whatever I want? I’ve never had grandiose dreams of fame and fortune, but it’s been a long time since I’ve truly been able to think about what I want.


Many of my daydreams over the past few years have centered around the idea of living in a cabin in the woods, all alone, and being able to live life on my own terms. Tending to gardens, spending afternoons in the sunshine and winters curled up by a fire, working a job where I can help others but not centering my life around a career. A life of peace and quiet joy.


If I were here with Ambrose under different circumstances, this could almost be the life I dreamed of, with the cozy cabin on a large plot of land miles from the nearest town. Hell, if he had simply asked me to come here instead of tricking me into a bargain that involves murder, I would have come of my own free will.


But that’s not what happened, I remind myself. Regardless of what has transpired, he’s still manipulative and inhuman. Even in times like this, where he seems no different than me.


We exit the highway and snake through the twists and turns of the mountain roads until the familiar crunch of gravel beneath tires announces our arrival home.


The silence between us isn’t broken until we’re standing on the porch while Ambrose unlocks the front door.


“How are you feeling?” He asks.


“Good, actually. One less person making the world a shitty place.”


He dips his chin in agreement. “Good.”


“I have to admit,” I say, attempting to lighten whatever somber mood he seems to have sunk into, “despite me being tricked into all of this, it’s been therapeutic in a really fucked up sort of way.”


His expression falls, but the shift is so quick I wonder if I had imagined it before he chuckles softly. “I’m glad. You seem to be so much more full of life lately.”


The observation catches me off guard, but I realize he’s right. It’s not like I’m miraculously better from the darkness that’s plagued me for most of my life, but that deep, constant, gnawing pain in my chest has lessened into a dull, occasional ache. It’s much more bearable than it used to be. Maybe it’s because—ironically—I feel less trapped than I did before, like there’s at least a light at the end of this tunnel. Something worth fighting for.


I also have a purpose driving me. Sure, maybe it’s murder, but a goal is still a goal, no matter how fucked up it might be.


The silence stretches between us after I shut the front door behind me, neither of us knowing what to say after the day we’ve had.


“It’s late,” Ambrose says. “You should go to sleep.”


“I don’t think I’ll be able to.” The residual thrill of today is still thrumming in my veins, and I’ll likely crash hard once it wears off. But there will be no sleep for at least a couple more hours.


“What shall we do, then?”


“Will you read to me?”


I wait for him to make some sarcastic quip, but he doesn’t. He simply smiles and nods. “Yes. Go shower and change into something more comfortable and meet me in the living room.”


I do as he says, going upstairs to peel off my dress and scrub myself thoroughly in the shower before slipping into sweatpants and a t-shirt. By the time I make it back downstairs, he has also changed, though he makes the fitted black t-shirt and flannel pajama pants look just as good as the suit he was wearing before. He’s thumbing through the books on the shelf when I sink onto the couch.


He turns his head toward me. “Any requests?”


“Hmm… I want you to read me the poem that means the most to you.”


He pauses a moment to consider, running a hand through his hair before he focuses his attention back on the bookshelf and hums to himself as he searches for a specific book.


Once he finds the small paperback, he reclines into his armchair facing me and glances up. “Ready?”


I nod.


Ambrose flips to a page in the middle of the book. “This is another one you’ll probably recognize, but I’ve loved it since the first time I heard it. It’s called ‘Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night.’” He clears his throat before he begins to read.


As always, his low, rich voice lulls me into stillness, but there’s a heaviness in his voice tonight that permeates every word.


The poem is a desperate plea from the narrator to a dying man, imploring him to fight against death instead of giving in easily.


“Rage, rage, against the dying of the light,” he reads. The line resonates throughout the poem along with the title line. It’s powerful yet heartbreaking.


When he finishes reading the poem, he sighs and closes the book.


“Does it still hurt as much as it used to?” I ask, knowing from the pained, sentimental look in his eyes that he’s thinking about the woman he lost so many years ago.


“It never really stops hurting, but with time, it changes into a different sort of pain. When you love someone so deeply, there will always be a part of you that’s broken once they’re gone.”


“I’m sorry,” I whisper.


“Don’t be. It actually helps to talk about it after so long of keeping it inside. But like I said before, she lived a full, happy life, and that’s all she had ever wanted.”


“Do you think you’ll ever love again?”


Ambrose pauses. “Yes,” he finally answers, holding my gaze. “Love is not finite. My love for her does not inhibit my ability to love again. But… it’s difficult to allow myself the vulnerability of caring so deeply for someone knowing I’ll outlive them. I’m destined to experience the worst sort of heartbreak with every person I love.”


Something clicks in my mind as I realize that this may be the reason he’s so guarded all the time, using sarcasm and cool detachment as a defense mechanism rather than simply doing it to get on my nerves. I’m sure it’s easier to keep everyone at an arm’s length rather than expose yourself to the vulnerability of losing someone you care for. I can’t imagine falling in love while knowing I’ll eventually have to witness that person’s death, especially after already experiencing that pain once before.


Not that I think he loves me, but with the two of us being in such close proximity all the time, it’s hard not to have some sort of fondness for each other.


“What about you?” He asks after a minute of silence. “With Joel?”


“I’m not sure I ever truly loved him,” I admit. “I thought I did once, but I think I loved the promises he made me and the vision he sold me more than I actually loved him.”


“That makes sense.”


“It sounds ridiculous, but this is the first time in my life that I’ve felt like there’s any sort of hope for my future.”


“And what will you do with this future you imagine for yourself?”


“I’m not sure.” My gaze drops. “I haven’t quite figured it out yet. I’ve spent so long just trying to survive that the thought of having full control of my life is a little intimidating.”


“There’s nothing wrong with that. You still have plenty of time to figure it out.”


I nod but say nothing. Maybe I should start planning my next steps soon, but the thought of leaving here and never seeing Ambrose again is strangely disheartening.


We sit in heavy silence for a minute or two before Ambrose says, “Can I tell you something?”


“Of course.”


“At the masquerade event we attended in the mountains, when I killed that man… I had a reason for doing so. But the way you looked at me that night, as if I was a heartless, evil monster, has been weighing on me since then. I just wanted to let you know that he wasn’t as innocent as he seemed to be.”


“What did he do?”


“Someone has been watching me recently, and he was working for them. I’m not sure why I’m being watched, though I have my suspicions, and I doubt their intentions are wholesome. When I left you alone with him, it was a test to see if he’d try to gather information about me through you, and he did.”


I attempt to keep my expression neutral, because I know exactly who is watching him. The angels. But if he killed a man simply because he was acting as a spy for someone whose intentions he doesn’t fully know, would he do the same to them? The last thing I want to do is put myself in the middle of some celestial war because Ambrose killed an angel after I told him their business. I don’t believe Ambrose is as evil as they say, but I also don’t believe their intentions are entirely selfless.


“So you killed him because he was spying on you on behalf of someone else?”


“Technically, I killed him because he refused to tell me who he was working for or why. I also didn’t particularly like watching him flirt with you.”


I can’t help but laugh. “You’re ridiculous.”


Ambrose shrugs. A few moments later, he stands, places the book back on the shelf, and pins me with a look I can’t quite decipher.


“Well, if we’re not planning on sleeping for a while, would you care to join me in the kitchen?”


“Uh, sure.”


Taking his outstretched hand, I stand, then quickly drop it once I’m on my feet. Even if it was just a friendly offer to help me up, every touch with him feels too intimate now, and I’m not sure if it’s all just in my head or if he feels it too.


Honestly, I’m not sure if I even want to know. It might be better to pretend none of this is affecting me. It would be easier that way.





I follow Ambrose to the kitchen, resting in one of the chairs at the dining room table and watching as he brews a pot of coffee and moves about the kitchen with ease. The sky outside is still dark, but the blackness has lightened almost imperceptibly. Sunrise will be here soon.


“You doing okay?” he asks when he notices me staring at him.


I give him a genuine smile. “Yes.”


Maybe it’s just my post-adrenaline, sleep-deprived brain, or maybe it’s the heavy emotion from the poetry and our conversation, but I’m overwhelmed with a profound sense of comfort and rightness in this moment. Like I belong here in some twisted, fateful sort of way.


Ambrose returns my smile before crossing the kitchen to the record player in the living room. He flips through the stack of records before finding the one he’s searching for, and he places it on the turntable. Meanwhile, the coffee pot gurgles, and he returns to the kitchen to pour us both cups just as the music begins to play.


The first song starts, relaxed and slow, before the second one picks up pace with a stronger beat and heavier guitars. I tap my foot to the music and sip my coffee, reveling in the tranquility of the moment.


Fleeting looks and soft smiles are the only things that pass between us as the music plays. I’m halfway curled up in the kitchen chair, one leg folded vertically against my torso and my hands wrapped around my steaming mug. Outside, the watery gray light of dawn seeps into the sky.


Everything is calm, slow, right. The whirlwind of constant fear and anxiety that’s been plaguing my mind for years has slowed to something strangely resembling peace.


One song fades into another, a mellow beat making way for slow acoustic guitar. Ambrose flashes me an unreadable look, rises from his seat, steps around the table, and offers me his hand.


“May I have this dance?” That familiar half-smile lifts his lips, but it’s not a sarcastic expression this time; it’s an earnest, almost vulnerable one.


I lower my half-empty coffee mug to the table and take his hand, smiling as I stand. “You may.”


The hardwood floor is cold beneath my bare feet, and my heart skips a beat when Ambrose’s eyes stay locked on my face. All the intensity from earlier has shifted into something softer but no less significant.


He pulls me in with a gentle touch. One hand settles at the small of my back, and the other cradles mine. We’re only inches apart, yet it still feels like too much space between us.


We sway to the music, and Ambrose spins me once before pulling me back into him. This time, he rests his hands on my hips, and I wrap my arms around his shoulders. Unable to resist, I lean my head against his chest and close my eyes, losing myself in his warmth and the comfort of his touch. His chest rises and falls beneath my cheek, and something in my heart cracks open.


I shouldn’t want this, shouldn’t love the feel of his arms wrapped around my waist and his heart beating against my ear, but I do.


Ambrose’s chest vibrates as he hums along to the tune about pale blue eyes, and we sway together, lost in the music. Time itself seems to hold its breath. This isn’t like when we danced at the masquerade. There, the moment was belied with an undercurrent of tension from both of us, along with our awareness of being watched. Here, it’s only us, pressed together in a moment of reverie, with the sunrise cresting the horizon outside and bathing us in beams of yellow-orange light that filters through the windows.


My heart swells in my chest, and tears prick at my eyes. I don’t quite understand why. Maybe it’s because I don’t feel like I’m bracing for anything anymore, like I’m free to simply exist without fear of pain or retribution. Or maybe it’s the way he holds me like I mean something to him. Like I’m loved and cherished and important.


He’s still the same man, but tonight, it’s as if his final layers are peeling away and he’s allowing me to truly see him for who he is.


At the same time, I’m nothing like the version of me that he met—well, watched—all those months ago. I was desperate and afraid, making myself small to fit into someone else’s idea of perfect, even though I knew deep down it would never be good enough. Now, I’m embracing the unknown and pushing myself to become someone who makes a difference, who challenges her fears rather than embracing them.


A profound sense of belonging envelops me, and I tilt my head up to face Ambrose.


“Do you believe in fate?” I ask.


He thinks before answering. “No, I don’t think so. Why?”


“I don’t know… sometimes I just wonder. It’s hard to believe that life is just a chaotic sequence of random decisions, so sometimes it’s nice to think that things were meant to be.”


Ambrose’s dark eyes pierce straight to my soul before he pulls me tight against his body. “It’s a romantic idea, that fate brought us together in this twisted way. But does it not mean more that we chose this in spite of all the odds against us?”


My first instinct is to argue that I didn’t choose this, but I don’t want to lose this moment we’re suspended in. He’s partly right, though. I may not have chosen to get stuck here, but I’m choosing to spend time with him, choosing to dance with him in the early morning light, choosing to let my defenses down with every day that passes.


I can’t pretend any longer that I’m not in awe of him, that I don’t care for him, that he’s not on my mind more often than I care to admit.


But regardless of the sheer terror that comes with lowering my defenses, I can’t resist his pull any longer.



OceanofPDF.com

c2UP





CHAPTER 34


The song fades into the next, but neither of us pulls away. As soon as we part, this moment will end. And right now, I wish that time would stop entirely, leave us suspended here in the almosts and maybes.


How did we get here? I wonder, but I don’t care enough to dwell on it. The how doesn’t matter. All that matters is the way he holds me so tightly that it heals something in me that I didn’t realize was broken, the way we fit so perfectly together when we couldn’t be more different.


I lift my head to look up at him, like I want to make sure he’s real, and his chin tilts down so he can meet my gaze. The golden light of the sunrise illuminates the space around us, only serving to pull me deeper into this surreal moment.


“What are you thinking about?” he asks.


“You,” I answer. “Us.”


His expression remains the same, but the hitch in his breath gives away that he cares more about that one word than he’s letting on. Us.


“Care to elaborate?”


How could I possibly explain the whirlwind of emotions flooding my heart? Putting into words what I’m feeling would be nearly impossible.


So, I don’t explain. Instead, I stand on my tiptoes, lean forward, and kiss him.


It’s not a soft, exploratory kiss like last time. This kiss tells him everything I want to say but can’t bring myself to admit. All the pent up passion, tension, and desire ignite the moment my lips meet his.


In an instant, his arms tighten around my waist as he kisses me back with just as much fervor. No holding back, no hesitation.


My breath is stolen from my lungs as he takes slow steps forward, pushing me until I’m backed up against the wall. My lips part slightly, and his tongue tangles with mine as he claims me.


When his body presses against mine, it’s impossible to ignore the hard bulge straining against his pants.


His voice is strained and husky when he says, “We shouldn’t do this.”


“I know,” I whisper, “but I want to anyway.”


He looks conflicted for a moment before saying, "I should probably go take a shower."


Rejection sinks like a stone in my stomach, but before the feeling can settle, he adds, “Would you like to join me?”


I don’t even think before I answer, “Yes.”


He takes my hand, leading me through his bedroom and into the attached bathroom. It’s decently sized, with a simple black-and-white color scheme. I shut the door behind me as Ambrose turns the shower on, and my heart skips a beat when he approaches me.


It’s been so long since I’ve done anything like this—anything remotely sexual that wasn’t a perfunctory way to appease my husband—but this feels anything but obligatory.


Ambrose stops a few inches away from me, and his fingers graze the hem of my shirt before slowly lifting it. I raise my arms so he can pull it off, and the cool air against my skin makes me acutely aware of every inch of exposed skin.


“So beautiful,” he whispers as he traces the curves of my hips with his fingertips. Goosebumps rise on my arms, and I fidget under his intense gaze.


He takes his time undressing me with slow, deliberate movements. Every touch sparks against my skin, and once I’m naked from the waist up, he sinks to his knees, kissing down my stomach until he can’t go any further without fabric in the way. He hooks his fingers over the waistband of my sweatpants and slips them down my legs, until I’m standing completely bare before him.


Desire and anxiety coil together in my chest as his eyes rake over my naked body from where he sits on his knees, and his hands slowly glide up my legs, over my hips, and up to my waist. His touch lingers on my skin even as he pulls his hands away.


He stands and steps back, watching me the entire time as he undresses himself.


God, he’s beautiful. Every inch of skin he exposes is more perfect than the last, and when he steps out of his pants after they’ve fallen to the ground, I allow myself the same pleasure of taking in the vision of him fully nude. The evidence of his hard work outdoors shows in the lean muscles straining against his skin.


He takes my hand again, leading me into the shower. The water is warm, the steam rising in around us like a thick fog that shrouds us from reality.


We stand beneath the stream of water, and I watch as rivulets snake down his body while reveling in the heat. I just took a shower a few hours ago, but there’s something so comforting about the feeling of hot water cascading over me, and something irresistibly enticing about joining Ambrose.


He lathers his hands with soap before he turns me around and cups my shoulders. He massages my back in slow circles, digging his thumbs into the tense muscles and making me bite back the sounds threatening to pass my lips. He takes his time kneading the knots in my shoulders and back until I can hardly stand. The sensation is overwhelming in the best way, with the lack of sleep weighing me down and the tension leaving my body until my limbs are loose and limp. I could almost fall asleep right here, but my need for him overshadows everything else.


His hands shift, and he slides them across my skin, down my back, around my hips, and up my stomach. His fingertips trail over my skin, and I hold my breath until he reaches my breasts. He cups them, using his thumb to flick over my nipples until they’re peaked and sensitive. I arch my back into him, letting out a soft moan as he repeats the movement over and over again. Tension builds in my core, and just when I’m close to begging for more, his right hand trails lower, skimming over my stomach again before slipping between my thighs.


His fingers press against my clit with firm, circular motions, and I cry out as I reach forward to steady myself against the wall, though my slight bend forces my ass backward and against his hard cock. Not that I mind. I want him so badly it hurts.


The tension inside me winds tighter with every pass of his fingers, my skin flushed and my breathing shallow.


I whimper when he threads his fingers through my hair and tugs, forcing my head back as the hot water cascades down my back.


With one hand gripping my hair and the other working between my legs, his touch is relentless. Pleasure consumes me as I spiral toward my orgasm. I’ve never been touched like this, never been claimed with a mixture of such possession and care. And fuck, it feels good.


Every nerve in my body is on fire, and I nearly collapse when my orgasm wracks my body, sending waves of ecstasy crashing over me. My muscles tighten with the intense pleasure overwhelming my senses, and Ambrose’s fingers work my clit until I’m a breathless, whimpering mess.


My legs shake when he finally pulls his hand away, and he gently spins me and grips my waist to hold me upright as I come down from the high. Ambrose presses his lips against my shoulder with a tenderness that makes me want to collapse in his arms and never let go. I press myself against him, laying my head against his chest while he strokes my wet hair. Steam from the hot water envelops us, and in this moment, we’re in our own little world where nothing can break us.


I could almost fall asleep right here with the exhaustion from the day pressing down on me, but his erection is impossible to ignore…


Reaching between us, I hesitantly trail my fingers over his stomach before wrapping them around the base of his cock.


He lets out a low, throaty noise but says, “You don’t have to.”


“I know. I want to. Please.”


He nods, and I tighten my grip slightly. His shaft pulses beneath my touch, and the immediate sensation only spurs me on.


Ambrose’s eyes close, and his head falls back as I begin to stroke him slowly. I linger at the tip, teasing the sensitive ridge with the pad of my thumb, which causes him to suck in a sharp breath.


I sink to my knees before him, desperate to taste him, to give him the same carnal pleasure he gave me. Leaning in, I drag my tongue along his length, loving the low growl of approval it elicits from him.


When I swirl my tongue around the head of his cock, he groans softly, and I’m emboldened to ease him deeper into my mouth. It’s been a long time since I’ve done this, and much longer since I’ve done it with this much desire. My throat constricts around him as I slowly find a rhythm, taking him as deep as I possibly can.


“That’s right, baby. You’re doing so fucking good,” he praises, as if he can hear the insecurities lingering in my mind, and his words shoot straight to my core. I don’t even remember the last time I was this aroused, let alone after already having one orgasm. What is this man doing to me?


He shouldn’t make me feel this good, yet he does. But right now, I can’t find it in me to care.


I pull back for only a moment, taking a deep breath before suctioning my lips around him and sucking his cock like my life depends on it. My head bobs back and forth, and his fingers tangle in my hair once again, the slight pressure from his hand enough to guide me but not enough to be forceful.


Ambrose’s hand tightens in my hair, his breathing becoming more erratic as he thrust his hips to meet me. I manage to glance up at him, and he’s the perfect image of beauty and sin—his eyes are hooded, his dark, wet hair falling over his face, and streams of water running down his torso as he fucks my throat.


“Brielle, I’m going to come in your mouth if you don’t stop.”


I don’t pull away. I want to watch him come undone because of me.


With a low moan, his cock pulses and he comes in my mouth. I swallow eagerly, reveling in the lewdness of it all.


When his grip loosens in my hair, I slowly withdraw, wiping my mouth with my forearm and grinning up at him. He watches me as I stand, his dark eyes filled with lust, satisfaction, and a fleeting array of emotion that I can’t quite understand.


He pulls me in for a long, slow kiss, caressing my skin with reverence before pulling away.


With a playful smirk, he leans in to murmur, “Want to know a secret? I’ve wanted to feel your lips wrapped around my cock from the first moment you walked into this house, and that was a million times better than it was in my dreams.”


Pride swell inside me, and I shake my head at him feigning disapproval at his statement, though I can’t keep the smile off my face.


It takes a moment for us to come back down from the high, though our return to reality is quickened by the water cooling down with every passing minute.


Ambrose steps out of the shower first, quickly drying himself off and wrapping a towel around his waist before grabbing another. I wring as much water out of my hair as I can before stepping onto the bath mat, then hold out my hand to take the towel from him.


“Let me,” he says.


Ambrose closes the small distance between us and drags the fluffy towel over my shoulders, my torso, my legs. He covers every inch of skin before standing back up and wrapping it around me. I can’t help but stare into his eyes as he tucks the top piece of fabric in to secure it. He’s so close, and a part of me still can’t believe this is real. The exhaustion is hitting me hard, making me wonder if this is all a dream.


It’s not like this would be the first time he’s made an appearance in one of my dreams.


I don’t know if it’s reassuring or not that this is undoubtedly real. His caress is too tangible, his features too clear. His eyes are heavy with a combination of awe and affection, and it constricts my heart with unexpected emotion.


This is what it’s like to be cared for, I think. To feel safe and—dare I say—loved.


God, I shouldn’t even start thinking like that. To admit to loving him would mean admitting to a connection in spite of our circumstances—circumstances that he created. Could I ever truly love someone who took away my choice, who forced me into servitude like this?


I wish the answer weren’t so complicated.


Interrupting my thoughts, Ambrose surprises me by asking, “Will you sleep in my bed with me tonight?”


I immediately answer yes without considering what more it could mean.


Tonight, I don’t want to consider the consequences of my choices or the implications of our actions. All I want is to sink into bed beside him, forget the outside world, and pretend like this is the life I’ve chosen for myself.


So, that’s exactly what I do.



OceanofPDF.com

c2X4





CHAPTER 35


AMBROSE

October


While I’ve made it a point to always learn, grow, and experience what the world has to offer, I think I’d forgotten how beautiful life could be until now. Brielle has brought a warmth and passion into my life that I’ve hardly felt in decades.


After losing Emma, I wasn’t sure I would ever be able to love again. It was a pain I was prepared for, though the predictability didn’t make it hurt any less. But one thing her death made evident is that I would forever be cursed to outlive anyone I ever love until I made the choice to die myself.


It’s difficult to choose death, though, even though the idea of slowly fading away isn’t as terrifying as it once was. Before she passed, Emma had made me promise that I wouldn’t waste this gift given to me, that I would experience all the beauty of life for as long as I possibly could. I had promised her that I wouldn’t stop living until it became a chore rather than an experience. And somehow, life still constantly finds ways to surprise me.


Brielle is the ultimate example of that. People have always been fascinating to me—their personalities, their fears, the choices they make—but I’ve never been drawn to someone in the way I’ve been drawn to her. An immediate curiosity followed by a consuming desire.


She brings a light to my life that I hadn’t even realized was missing.


If I’m being honest, it might kill me when she’s gone. The gut-wrenching pain from even imagining the day she leaves, whether it be willingly or not, is enough to bring me to my knees.


But at the same time, I can’t ask her to stay in a place she so clearly resents. All she wants now is her freedom, and I will give it to her. Every time she mentions the bargain we made, the guilt cuts me deeper, but I keep reminding myself that I can’t let it consume me. I’m doing all of this for a good reason. At least, that’s what I’m trying to tell myself.


I have no doubts that Brielle feels something for me, but it’s difficult to determine the legitimacy of those feelings. Does she love me in the way I love her, or has she tricked herself into feeling something more for me because of our proximity? Can love be freely given when she still, to some degree, considers herself a captive?


I want to tell her how I feel, but that would feel like yet another form of manipulation on top of the transgressions I’ve already committed. Even if I did profess my feelings to her, it would be difficult to trust the truth of her response. Would she return my sentiment simply out of fear of what I might do should she reject my feelings? I would never pressure her into admitting to anything she doesn’t feel fully, but she might not know that. Even if I tell her that’s the case, she might assume I’m playing more mind games.


But it’s all my fault; I’ve dug myself into this hole of manipulation and half-truths, so I cannot blame her for any assumptions she might make.


Despite all the lingering mistrust, though, there’s something that tells me she feels the same as I do, even if she can’t bring herself to say so. Brielle used to look at me like I was a monster, as evil as they come. Now, I often catch her watching me when she doesn’t think I’m paying attention, and there’s something in the way she looks at me that gives me hope.


She wears her vulnerability on her sleeve, but it’s one of the things I love about her. Even after all the trauma she’s experienced, she still manages to open her heart, if only a little.


It feels ridiculous to hope that she might end up loving me enough to stay here. Hope is such a fickle thing to cling to, but I can’t help the way she makes me want so many things I’ve not dared to consider in such a long time.


But, deep down… I fear I’m breaking my own heart by loving someone who could never truly love me back.



OceanofPDF.com

c2XY





CHAPTER 36


We’ve gone back to pretending that things are normal between us—in whatever twisted definition we have of “normal”—after I had woken up in Ambrose’s bed late in the afternoon a few days ago. Neither of us has mentioned it, likely because neither of us knows how to approach the topic. Something has shifted between us, and it seems as if neither of us knows what to make of it. It’s almost better that way, though. It’s easier to ignore the intimate thing that happened between us rather than risk naming it and discovering it meant something different to each of us.


Regardless of the awkwardness lingering between us, it seems we’ve come to a sort of truce despite our circumstances. After the events of the last week or two, it feels unnecessary to continue pretending to hate him. He’s grown on me, which I hate to admit, but I find myself seeking him out more often than not, content to spend time with him as we read or watch movies or go for walks through the woods.


The angels never show up when he’s with me, thankfully.


This evening, I’m curled up on the couch trying to read, but my eyes have glazed over the same page for the third time without really taking any of the words in. It’s a book about a serial killer, which I thought might inspire me for my own future plans, but nothing is holding my attention right now. Ambrose is across the room with his leather-bound notebook in his lap, lost in thought as he writes. I wish he’d leave the notebook out on the table sometime rather than locking it away, because my curiosity about what’s inside those pages grows every day.


I sigh loudly, closing the book in my hand and dropping it on the coffee table with a heavy thud.


Ambrose looks up from the armchair across the room. “Something wrong?”


“I’m bored,” I announce. “I’ve read three books this week. I’ve plotted multiple potential murders. I think my brain is starting to melt.”


“That didn’t take long.”


I glare at him. “I’m serious.”


“Are you saying you want me to entertain you?”


I ignore the innuendo that’s made evident by his smirk and answer, “Yeah, maybe.”


He stares at me for a moment before closing the notebook in his lap, standing, and reaching high on the bookshelf to secure his notebook in the locking case, alongside the dozens already inside.


“Come with me, then, before you implode” he says, walking toward the door without checking to see if I follow.


“Where are we going?” I ask as I hurry to catch up to him.


“To the garage. I’m going to teach you how to make something. Maybe then you’ll be able to satiate your boredom on your own for a while.”


“Make something?”


“You’ll see.”


Ambrose flicks on the workshop lights, illuminating the large space that’s filled with the scent of sawdust and metal, and turns on the garage heater in the corner of the room.


“Sit,” he commands, gesturing to a stool beside a table.


I follow his instructions and watch him from the stool while he gathers materials and places them on the table. Once he’s collected everything he needs, he stands beside me.


“I’m going to teach you how to carve an animal,” he says. I picture all the intricately carved figurines lining his shelves and am immediately intimidated. I’ll be lucky not to chop a finger off.


He sets a block of wood about the size of a brick in front of me then plucks up a few of the tools from the middle of the table. He explains how to sketch out the lines on the top and sides of the wood, demonstrating on his own block before I attempt my own. I decide to carve a rabbit. I carefully sketch my lines while Ambrose watches, and he gives me an approving nod once I finish.


Next, he shows me how to use the chisel and the smaller whittling knife, again demonstrating on his own block of wood. His fingers brush mine when he shows me how to angle my hand, and my skin heats from that one simple touch. Once I’m somewhat confident in my actions, he takes a seat at the table across from me and begins to work on his own figure.


The first few cuts I make are rough and uneven. I curse under my breath as an uneven curl of wood springs off and lands in my lap. Ambrose doesn’t laugh, though. He just sits there, watching me with quiet patience and encouraging me to continue.


“So, you do this a lot, don’t you?” I ask.


“Yes. I like to keep an array of hobbies to keep my mind and body active. This one is a nice little way to challenge myself.”


“I imagine it’s probably good to have multiple things to keep you entertained, especially out here in the middle of nowhere.”


“Maybe you should find a hobby of your own,” he teases. “You know, since you’re already so terribly bored.”


“I do have a hobby. I both plan and commit murders,” I deadpan.


His lips twitch with a smile. “That’s a start.”


We fall into silence after that, broken only by the rasp of metal against wood. My block slowly but surely takes shape. It’s lumpy and uneven, but each stroke of the knife takes away another layer until it somewhat resembles the shape of a rabbit.


I use the smaller knife to attempt some details, but it’s more difficult than I imagined. Finally, I figure that’s as good as it’s going to get.


“Voila!” I hold the awkward little figure up to show Ambrose, and he looks up from the much more intricate figure he’s carving and smiles.


“I love it,” he says.


As I turn it over in my hand, feeling all the awkwardly carved ridges and bumps, I realize that I don’t even mind that it’s not perfect. The satisfaction of having created something is enough to make me proud, even if it does look like a nine-year-old made it.


“Do you want to make another one?” Ambrose asks, studying my expression.


My hands are sore from gripping the wood too tightly, so I answer, “No, but I might try again tomorrow if that’s alright.” I have to admit, the idea of having a hobby that doesn’t involve torture or murder is becoming increasingly more appealing. And reading is fun, but I can only do it for so long before the words blur together.


“Of course it’s alright. You’re welcome in here anytime, whether I’m here or not.”


“Thank you.”


Ambrose turns his attention back to the carving he’s working on, and I take a moment to really look around the room. The garage is filled with various tools, from wrenches and screwdrivers hanging neatly on the walls to a large table saw standing in the corner.


Scattered about the massive garage are pieces of wooden furniture in various states of finish. A dresser that’s been sanded down and needs to be re-stained, a coffee table that’s missing the handles for the drawers, a rocking chair that looks like it may fall apart at any moment. Clearly Ambrose keeps himself busy.


I stand and wander around the room, careful to keep a wide berth of the half-finished furniture and power tools.


When I lean down to take a closer look at the array of brass knobs and handles that have been organized in a tray, my hair falls over my shoulder, and I brush it back behind my ear. I wish I had a hair tie, I think, followed by a disappointed, I wish I could just chop it all off.


The thought makes me stop in my tracks. Why can’t I just chop it all off? I don’t have Joel around anymore to guilt trip me out of a haircut by telling me how I “look so much better with long hair.” It’s been years since I’ve gotten more than a trim for that reason—it wasn’t worth the fight before. But there will be no fight now.


“Hey, Ambrose?”


“Yes?”


“Do you have a pair of scissors I can use?”


His eyebrows knit together in confusion, but he doesn’t ask questions. “Yes, if you turn around there should be a pair hanging on the wall to your left.”


I search the wall until I spot the scissors hanging there. Standing on my tiptoes, I reach up and snag them. My back is to Ambrose now, and I can feel his eyes on me, but I pay no attention to his gaze as I set the scissors on the counter and use my fingers to part my hair down the middle. I pull each half to the side over my shoulder and take a deep breath.


Why am I so nervous all of the sudden? It’s just hair. It grows back, and it’s not exactly like I have anyone to impress.


I should probably at least brush it first, but I have to do this now or I’ll chicken out.


Grabbing the first chunk of hair in the fist of my left hand, I pick up the scissors with my right. The snipping sound cuts through the silence of the garage as I cut just above where my hair meets my shoulder. Thick, brown locks slip through my fingers and fall to the concrete floor, and once every piece of hair on that side has been cut, I repeat the process on the other side.


With each snip of the scissors, it feels like I’m cutting away a part of my old self. Maybe it’s cliche that a haircut feels symbolic of my newfound freedom and identity, but I don’t care. I finally have the power to be the woman I choose to be.


I don’t even realize tears are rolling down my cheeks until I look down to see the pile of hair at my feet and a teardrop drips off the tip of my nose.


Then, I smile, shifting my head side to side in appreciation of how light everything feels.


It’s then that the full weight of Ambrose’s gaze boring into my back hits me again. Oops. He probably thinks I’m having some kind of breakdown.


I turn to face him, fully expecting judgment (or at least a sarcastic quip), but I find none of that. Curiosity, sure, but beyond that is a softer expression—one of understanding.


I flash him a weak smile and wipe away the remaining tears. “I think I needed that.”


He nods. “I get that.”


“Do you like it?” I don’t know why I ask; it’s not like I need his approval. Maybe there’s still a small, lingering part of me afraid of getting in trouble for doing something so brash to my appearance, even though I know I’m not in that environment anymore. I’m learning that it takes a long time to heal from abuse, and even the smallest things are still enough to send me reeling. The body reacts long after the threat is over, hardwired to protect itself after learning the patterns of what might become dangerous.


“I do. It suits you,” he answers with an affectionate grin. He nods toward the scissors. “Bring those over here.”


I do as he requests, wondering where he’s going with this, though I secretly hope he doesn’t try to cut his own hair in some weird show of solidarity. I’ve become partial to the way his dark hair frames his face, falling over his forehead and curling slightly.


Ambrose stands and gestures for me to sit on the stool, and I realize what he’s doing.


Gently, he runs his fingers through my hair in an attempt to comb it down, though the touch sends shivers down my spine. His fingernails graze my scalp with each stroke, and my stomach flip-flops. I would let him do this forever, it feels so good.


Even though he takes much more time than he needs to brushing his fingers through my hair, it still feels like too soon when he stops. I feel his fingers grip a small strand of hair, followed by the sound of the scissors snipping away at the ends.


I’m not sure why this feels so intimate, but it does. I just had a weird sort of epiphany and chopped off most of my waist-length hair, and his only reaction is to calmly help me fix the uneven ends.


His hands brush across my neck, raising goosebumps on my skin and making me all too aware of every simple movement, and I close my eyes. There’s a heavy silence between us, loaded with everything we’re feeling and not saying.


When he finally finishes, he steps back and sets the scissors on his work table with a dull thud. I stay seated, the weight of the moment still heavy on my heart. Ambrose’s steps echo against the concrete as he walks around me and stops at my front. The heat of his body radiates from where he stands only inches before me, and I stare up into his dark eyes.


“Brielle,” he whispers, just before he leans down and kisses me with burning, desperate intensity.


I melt into his touch as he wraps his arms around my waist, knowing it’s impossible to fight this pull between us any longer.



OceanofPDF.com

c30E





CHAPTER 37


His lips are demanding as he puts every word unspoken into the kiss, and the wall I’ve fought so hard to keep up around my heart crumbles to dust. I’ve been fighting a losing battle, trying to convince myself that I don’t want him, that I haven’t been falling for him for months now. He’s broken that wall down piece-by-piece, and now, whatever remains of it has shattered.


I wrap my arms around his neck as he nudges my knees apart with his thigh, and it allows him to take another step forward so our chests are pressed together. The heat of his body envelops me, warming my limbs while simultaneously setting every nerve alight.


Spreading my legs a couple inches wider, I deepen the kiss and press my body against his as if I’m trying to inextricably attach myself to him.


A low sound rumbles in his throat, something between a growl and a groan, before he threads his fingers through my hair and makes a fist, tugging my head backward so I’m forced to face the ceiling. He stares down at me with his dark, quiet intensity before slowly bending over me, placing chaste kisses along my jawline and down my neck.


His movements are desperate yet unhurried, like he wants to savor every moment. The warmth of his breath is a stark contrast to the cool air of the garage, and I don’t know if the chills prickling my skin are from the stark difference in temperature or the anticipation of where these kisses might lead.


When Ambrose reaches the tender spot where my neck meets my shoulder, he bites the skin, drawing a gasp from my lips. It’s not painful, but the pressure of him sucking at the skin is erotic in a way I didn’t expect. He sucks hard enough that I know the spot will bruise by morning. I’ve always dismissed hickeys as immature and somewhat inappropriate. But this feels nothing like that. It’s like Ambrose is marking me as his, claiming me, creating a mark to remind me every time I look in the mirror that I’m his.


My eyes flutter closed as I revel in the feeling of his lips against my skin, and when his hands glide over the front of my sweater, I arch into his touch. He doesn’t slip underneath my sweater like I expect him to, but I’m somewhat grateful he doesn’t rip all my clothes off considering how cold it is in here.


My stomach swoops in anticipation as Ambrose lowers himself to kneel on the garage floor in front of me. The sawdust scatters beneath his knees, releasing a puff of that faint, woodsy scent that permeates the air of the garage.


Ambrose’s fingers find the waistband of my leggings, and with a tug that's both assertive and gentle, he pulls them down, and I lift my hips slightly to allow him.


The cold air hits my exposed skin as the fabric slips down my thighs, and I draw in a sharp breath as my leggings pool around my ankles. Ambrose looks up at me from his position, his eyes burning with barely controlled lust.


My whole body hums with anticipation and desire as he traces his fingers across my bare skin, his movements agonizingly slow.


I’m not sure if he’s savoring the moment or intentionally tormenting me, but the tension between us is palpable. I'm aching for him, my body throbbing with need, but he seems content to take it slow.


Finally, he leans in closer, blowing softly against the wetness gleaming between my thighs. The unexpected action catches me off guard, causing my muscles to tense and a whimper to fall past my lips from the sensitivity.


Ambrose smirks, aware of exactly what he’s doing to me and how much he’s driving me mad. Slowly, he leans in, kissing up my inner thigh until he finally presses his lips to my pussy.


I shudder at the contact, gripping the armrests of the stool tightly to steady myself.


“Fuck, you taste good,” Ambrose murmurs against my inner thigh before swiping his tongue up my center and suctioning his lips around my clit.


With all sense of self-preservation forgotten, I grind my hips into Ambrose’s measured yet relentless motions as he uses his lips and tongue to wind me tighter and tighter, driving me to the brink of insanity.


In the back of my mind, I find myself wishing we were in a bed, on a couch, anywhere that I could fall back and let my body ride out the waves of pleasure threatening to tear me apart.


He doesn’t stop, doesn’t switch up his movements, simply continuing the perfectly torturous movements with his mouth while I struggle to stay upright.


I whimper and moan as the tension inside me builds.


“Ambrose,” I cry out just as my orgasm crashes over me, and I grind my hips against him to ride out the waves of pleasure that crash over me again and again. My voice echoes through the garage with every desperate noise that falls past my lips.


After seconds that feel more like hours, I gently nudge Ambrose’s face back an inch or two, overwhelmed by the sensitivity and still breathing heavily on the comedown from my orgasm.


He glances up at me with a wicked grin. “You don’t know how long I’ve been wanting to do that.”


I can’t help but smile back. His dark hair is mussed from where I ran my fingers through it, and there’s a wild gleam in his eye that makes my stomach twist in excitement.


“Well, I’m glad you got your wish,” I tease.


His expression turns mischievous, predatory, when he says, “I got part of my wish. There’s more to come.”


My eyes widen, and I don’t miss the double entendre.


Then suddenly, my dream from weeks ago flashes in my mind, and before I fully know what I’m initiating, I stand, pull up my pants, and announce, “If you want more, you’ll have to catch me first.”


Without another word, I run from the garage.



OceanofPDF.com

c31N





CHAPTER 38


Isprint across the yard, not daring to look behind me and risk slowing myself down. Adrenaline rushes through my veins at the thought of being caught. At knowing I’ll be caught—he’s faster, stronger, and a supernatural being, after all—but the thrill of the chase is exhilarating nonetheless.


The night air is crisp and cold, chilling my lungs with every inhale and coming out in a puff of vapor with every exhale.


My entire body is electrified with the thrill of the chase, anticipating the grip of his hand on my arm at any second, but I can’t even hear his footsteps over the sound of my own feet pounding the ground and my pulse thundering in my ears.


I’m closing in on the house, knowing that a chase through the woods would bring me right back to my dream but knowing it wouldn’t go so smoothly in reality. It’s pitch-black outside, not to mention freezing, and frankly, I don’t trust myself not to trip and break my ankle.


Besides, I’d much rather Ambrose catch me inside the house, where he can toss me onto a warm bed and fuck me senseless.


When I reach the house, I throw open the back door and slip inside, unable to resist the urge to glance behind me. There, silhouetted against the dim halo of yellow light emanating from the garage windows, is Ambrose. Not running, but striding with unhurried purpose. Stalking me, knowing I won’t be able to escape him no matter where I go.


I let out a tiny yelp of fear and slam the door shut before running further into the house.


Where do I go now?


My feet slam against the hardwood floors as I tear through the hallway with my heart hammering in my chest. My mind is aware that I’m not in any real danger, but my body doesn’t know the difference. Every sense is dialed high, impelling me to scream, fight, or run from the predator who’s chasing me.


I take a sharp right and skid into Ambrose’s study, slamming my shoulder against the doorframe in my momentum. “Shit,” I hiss, pressing a palm to the tender spot, but there’s no time to dwell. I scan the room in a frenzy, searching for potential hiding places.


Bookshelves, desk, curtains. No closet. I’m running out of time.


My pulse thrums louder now, not just from running, but from the awareness that he’s getting closer with every second that passes.


I need to hide.


The couch is my best bet, I decide. It’s angled against the far wall, pushed out just enough that I might fit behind it. I dart across the room and drop to my knees, awkwardly attempting to wedge myself into the narrow gap between the couch and the wall. The carpet muffles the sounds of my shuffling, thankfully.


I press a hand to my mouth, torn between keeping my eyes wide open and squeezing them shut.


The thud of his footsteps echoes down the hallway with slow, deliberate thuds. He’s doing it on purpose, knowing I’m somewhere in the house listening to every minor movement with bated breath.


He’s not rushing to find me.


No, he’s hunting me.


“Brielle…” His voice floats down the hall in a sing-song tone, with that unmistakable purr of danger that makes my thighs clench involuntarily. “You really think you can hide from me?”


Yes.


No.


Please don’t find me.


Please do.


He opens a door to another room, and it creaks on its hinges. His footsteps pause. I picture him scanning the shadows with that unnatural stillness of his, just before he moves in for the kill.


“Not in here,” he murmurs, more to himself than to me.


My heart skips at the sound of something crashing to the floor—probably something he knocked over on purpose, because he knows what that noise does to me with how on-edge I am. It startles a gasp out of me, but I bite it back.


He’s toying with me.


I listen as his footsteps recede into the kitchen, then grow louder as he gets closer.


My body is thrumming, alive with tension and anticipation that makes it hard to stay still. It’s the thrill of the hunt, and I’m his helpless prey.


The floor creaks with the sound of his footsteps, louder now than before.


Closer.


I hear the moment he crosses over from the hardwood floor into the carpet of his study, when his footsteps go eerily silent.


I don’t move. I barely breathe.


The weight of his presence settles into the room like thick smoke. I can feel him without seeing him—his energy, his gravity.


“Brielle…” he says again, quieter now, teasing. “You can’t hide from me, baby.”


A spike of arousal shoots through me at his words, and I bite my lip to keep myself quiet.


He takes a step.


Then another.


I can’t even see him from where I’m crammed behind the couch, so all I can do is listen and wait.


There’s the sound of the desk chair dragging across the carpet as he checks underneath.


The rustle of the curtains is next.


I press my back tighter against the wall, my ribs aching from how shallow I’m breathing. I wouldn’t be surprised if he could hear my pulse with how hard it’s pounding.


The room falls quiet again.


And then, he stops.


Right in front of the couch.


I freeze.


My body is taut and my breath trapped in my lungs. I don't move. I can't move. It’s as if my limbs know the rules of the game even better than my mind does. The hunter is close. Any sudden movement might give me away.


But he already knows.


A slow, deliberate hand slides around the back of the couch, shifting it forward a few inches and exposing me to the room. A moment later, a strong grip closes around my wrist.


I yelp as Ambrose tugs me forward. It’s not painful, but it’s clear how much stronger than me he is. I scramble slightly, the carpet scratching at my knees, but he doesn’t give me time to get my balance before he hauls me up and over the arm of the couch in one smooth motion.


I land on the cushions with a surprised shout, and the heat of the room seems to surge around me all at once as I’m forced into the metaphorical spotlight.


He's standing over me, surveying me like the prey that I am, and his dark eyes gleam with dark satisfaction. I can only lie there, breathing hard and wondering what comes next now that he’s caught me.


“Did you really think you could run from me?” he asks in a dangerously soft voice.


I manage a small, shy smile, because I know that’s what he wants, and also because I kind of like the way butterflies take flight in my stomach at his tone.


“Careful, pet. Don’t forget, you belong to me now. I’ll chase no matter how far you run.”


The words should bother me. They’re both possessive and domineering. Combined with the fact that he used the nickname I used to hate so much, I should argue with him.


But I don’t, because none of that bothers me anymore.


In fact, I love that he’s claiming me as his, because his possessiveness isn’t suffocating; it’s liberating. It makes me feel wanted but not controlled, desirable but not objectified.


He examines me like he knows exactly what I’m thinking. Like he sees every crack in my armor and is enjoying the way he’s prying me open with the gentlest touch.


Without a word, he begins to strip.


Right in front of me, with no hesitation and no shame, holding eye contact the entire time.


He pulls his sweater over his head, followed by his undershirt, exposing his broad chest and muscular arms. His hands move to his belt next, undoing the buckle with slow, deliberate motions. I can’t look away. My mouth goes dry as he pushes his pants down, letting them fall to the floor, followed by his briefs. His cock springs free, already half hard.


Ambrose undresses like a man who knows he’s a god—or a devil—before those meant to worship him.


And fuck, do I want to.


He doesn’t speak at first. Just sits beside me on the couch, completely naked, and begins to stroke himself lazily, watching me with that unreadable expression.


I’m frozen under his gaze for a moment, but I come to my senses and go to move closer to him when he finally speaks.


“Stand up,” he commands.


I do, unsure of myself but wanting to please him regardless.


“Take your shirt off,” he says after making me stand there for a few uncomfortable seconds. I reach for the hem, nerves twisting my stomach, but before I can peel it off, he adds, “Slowly.”


Oh, he wants a show.


He wants to look at me the way I’ve been looking at him, with barely restrained lust and desire.


I meet his gaze and tug the hem of the sweater up inch by inch, revealing the strip of my stomach, the underside of my breasts. His eyes follow every movement. I roll the fabric over my shoulders and down my arms, watching it fall to the floor.


I reach around to unclasp my bra next, then slide the straps down my arms, slow and teasing, and let it slip from my fingers.


His hand moves faster on his cock, and my nipples harden from both the cool air and his full attention.


“Turn around,” he instructs. “Pants next.”


I turn slowly, hooking my fingers into the waistband of my leggings before looking over my shoulder and meeting his intense gaze. Bending forward slightly more than necessary, I peel the fabric down over my hips and thighs, revealing the curve of my ass. I step out of the leggings and panties carefully, leaving myself bare before him.


Turning back around, I give him a look as if to say, “What’s next?”


He crooks a finger, beckoning me to him. “Come here.”


Heat pools low in my stomach as I walk over to him fully exposed, feeling the burn of his gaze trailing over every inch of my skin.


He reaches out when I get close enough, sliding both hands around my hips. Up until now, he’s still been slowly stroking his cock while watching me.


“Ride me,” he growls.


Heat pulses in my core, and my knees almost give out just from the way he says those two words.


He leans back then, giving me space, draping his arms casually across the back of the couch as he settles back into the cushions. His entire body is a masterpiece, and my eyes are drawn from his face down to his erection.


Steadying myself with my hands on the back of the couch, I situate myself over top of him with one leg on either side of his hips.


I sink down until his cock presses against my entrance, and I pause. Is this really happening? Am I allowing myself to give in to this man who, only weeks ago, I hated with every fiber of my being?


Yes, I decide, I am. Things have changed. He may not be a good person, but at this point, neither am I. Maybe I’ve come to care for him only under these unusual circumstances, but that doesn’t mean a thing right now.


I reach down between us with trembling fingers as I line him up with my entrance.


He doesn’t touch me yet. He simply watches. His eyes roam across my face, then down my neck, lingering on my breasts, my waist, and finally, where we connect.


Slowly, I sink down onto him.


I gasp at the stretch as he fills me inch by inch. Fuck, that feels good. Just when I think I won’t be able to go any further, I’m seated on his lap, and the fullness is overwhelming.


His head tips back slightly. “It’s like you were fucking made for me,” he groans.


I sit there for a moment, motionless, adjusting to the intense pressure of his cock inside me. His hands move from the back of the couch to my hips, stroking slow circles along my skin. He doesn’t rush me.


I begin to move, slow at first, lifting my hips just an inch before sliding back down. The sharp stretching sensation morphs into a low, pleasant ache that grows with every movement. I roll my hips, keeping eye contact even as my body begins to unravel.


Ambrose’s hands stay on me as he grips my hips, guiding me while I ride him.


“I meant what I said earlier. You’re mine,” he murmurs.


I nod. Words have left me completely.


Every inch of me burns, not just with pleasure but with the realization that I don’t mind being his. At least not right now, not like this.


I move my hands to grip his shoulders rather than the couch, needing every bit of contact with his skin I can possibly find. I ride him with growing urgency, chasing the pleasure that’s just out of reach. Each time I rise and sink back down, his breathing stutters.


My thighs begin to burn from the effort, muscles quivering, but I don’t stop. It feels too good, and the subtle pain is worth every bit of the pleasure.


Suddenly, he moves, surging upward and lifting me as though I weight nothing. I barely have time to wrap my legs around his hips before he twists and flips me onto my back.


I sink into the cushions, splayed out on the couch before him as he steadies himself over me then drives into me in one thrust.


I cry out at the suddenness of it all, bucking my hips upward to meet his unforgiving thrusts.


Our slow pace is gone now, replaced by something more desperate.


“This is what you get for running,” he grits out between thrusts. “Just remember that you asked for this—to be hunted, caught, and fucked.”


“Yes,” I gasp. “Please don’t stop.”


“I won’t,” he growls. “Not until you scream for me.”


Every thrust pushes me closer to the edge. My legs are shaking, my core pulsing with need, the only thing that exists in this moment is him. Ambrose.


He changes the angle, grabbing one of my legs and lifting it higher over his shoulder while keeping his relentless pace, and I fall apart.


I come with a sob, my back bowing off the couch as my orgasm crashes through me. My muscles tense as pleasure wracks my body, but Ambrose doesn’t stop.


He fucks me through it, harder and deeper, chasing his own release like his life depends on it. He presses a hand against the back of the couch for leverage, the muscles in his forearms straining as he drives into me over and over again.


Moments later, he comes inside me with a groan, his hips slowing as he pulses deep inside me. Beneath him, I’m breathing hard and overwhelmed with something between awe, obsession, and contentment. He stays like that for a minute, staring down at me with his cock still inside me while his expression mirrors every emotion welling up inside me.


Then he leans forward, just enough to bury his face against my neck, and I wrap my arms around him.


Neither of us speaks, but we both know that, once again, everything between us has shifted irreparably.



OceanofPDF.com

c35G





CHAPTER 39


“When love beckons to you, follow him,


Though his ways are hard and steep…


And when he speaks to you believe in him,


Though his voice may shatter your dreams as the north wind lays waste the garden.”


—Kahlil Gibran


“Where are you taking me?”


Ambrose navigates the roads snaking through the mountains. “You said you’ve been bored lately,” he answers, referencing my statement from the other night. “I figured I’d give you some excitement.”


This morning, he had instructed me to get ready while refusing to tell me where we were going, advising me to wear comfortable shoes and a coat. I can only assume we’re doing something outdoors.


We pass signs indicating what’s ahead, and it’s clear I was right—we’re going hiking. He follows the signs, turning onto a gravel road that crunches beneath the tires and bounces us in our seats due to the significant potholes. Finally, Ambrose pulls into a parking lot where only two other cars are parked, likely due to it being early afternoon on a weekday, and also November and freezing fucking cold.


“I’ve heard of this place,” I say as he turns off the car and glances over at me. Linville Gorge is a popular hiking spot in North Carolina, and I’ve heard this is one of the best views, but I’ve never been. I had asked Joel years ago if he’d take me, and even though he promised he would someday, he never did. Par for the course, I suppose.


“You’ll love it.” Ambrose’s soft smile is so dazzling that it steals my breath away. So many times, I forget he’s not entirely human, but in moments like this, his ethereal beauty is impossible to ignore.


I awkwardly return his smile before I open the door and exit the car.


We’ve again entered some weird state of limbo, where we’ve crossed a line we shouldn’t have and now don’t know how to act around each other. Each time we’ve taken things a step further, either physically or emotionally, he seems to withdraw and become deeply introspective for a day or two before we both pretend nothing happened.


I know for a fact that it’s not a healthy way to handle things, avoiding communication because it’s uncomfortable, but it’s not like our relationship was built on a foundation of trust and respect in the first place.


Honestly, it’s nice to simply feel safe and wanted, even if it is in an incredibly fucked up scenario. So if we can continue this without anyone trying to put a label on it—which would complicate things even more—then I’m perfectly happy.


I’ll be leaving forever as soon as I fulfill my end of the bargain, anyway. That’s what I keep telling myself, though I never dwell on the idea for long. The future becomes more intimidating and overwhelming every time I attempt to think about it.


Ambrose rounds the car to walk beside me, and a minute later, we’re starting at the trailhead. The trail is wide enough that we can walk side-by-side with some distance between us, but the quiet feels too heavy with all the emotions whirling through me.


“Any reason why you picked this particular trail?” I ask, unable to resist the urge to break the silence.


Ambrose’s footsteps are steady next to me as he says, “Yes. This place means a lot to me. I’ve spent many afternoons here, and it always seems to give me some much-needed mental clarity.”


“Is there something you need mental clarity for right now?” I joke, but it falls flat when he glances over and gives me a weak smile. I imagine he’s thinking, Of course there is. I just fucked the human woman that I kidnapped after she tried to kill herself, and now everything’s weirdly complicated.


“Possibly,” he answers. “But I also brought you here because I truly think you’ll appreciate it in the same way I do. The last time I came here was about as close to a religious experience I’ve had since I… well, you know.”


“Yeah, I imagine dying, meeting a god, and coming back to life as an immortal would probably be at the top of that list.” It still feels like such a surreal thing to consider.


My comment earns me a chuckle.


“I’ve mostly come to terms with it.”


We continue on in silence as I again consider the implications of Ambrose’s experience, of his existence.


If I had succeeded in my suicide attempt, would I have been given the same opportunity as Ambrose?


Probably not. Why would a god give eternal life to someone who didn’t care to live out their first one? I wonder if this deity simply picks and chooses people at random, or how that works.


The hike is short on a simple paved trail that winds between the golden trees, until we reach a set of stone stairs leading down into a semi-circle outcropping for a full view of the mountains.


Ambrose stays beside me the entire time, and I don’t pull away when he takes my hand as we descend the short set of steps.


When we reach the bottom, my breath catches in my throat. Before us, the mountains are spread against the sky, rolling peaks as far as the eye can see disappearing into the blueish haze that gives the Blue Ridge Mountains their name. Before us is the gorge, a steep valley between the mountains where the river cuts through the ravine. The vast beauty of it all is overwhelming.


“I’ve always loved this place,” he says softly, staring out over the expansive landscape. The autumn colors are beginning to fade, the vibrant oranges and reds seeping from the leaves and leaving them brown and brittle. In a couple weeks, this entire valley will be one solid blanket of beige. But right now, it’s trapped between the forgotten summer and the promise of winter.


I squeeze his hand. “I can see why. It’s incredible.”


“I’ve been coming here for close to eighty years,” he admits. Even though I’ve become accustomed to his immortality, the number itself is still jarring. “The path itself has changed a lot as it’s become more popular,” he continues, “but the landscape is always the same. Every time I come back here, it puts everything into perspective.”


I understand what he means. Gazing out over the mountains from so high up, surrounded by them on all sides as they fade into the horizon like rolling waves, has a way of making you feel infinitesimal in the grand scheme of things.


As the minutes stretch on with both of us taking in the view in silence, my thoughts drift. I think about my life, about how miserable I was for so much of my life, how utterly resigned I was to the hopeless circumstances. From up here, my problems—my life—feel insignificant. Irrelevant. Ironically, it’s that feeling of insignificance that’s so liberating.


When you’re neck-deep in such terrible circumstances—depression, abuse, fear—you view the world through that trauma, which distorts and magnifies reality until it’s altered beyond recognizability.


It’s only once you’re out of that deep, suffocating darkness that you can evaluate life from a clearer perspective.


If there’s one thing I’ve learned lately, it’s that there’s a freedom in realizing that you don’t have to define yourself by your past anymore. Of knowing that the unpredictable transience of life can be beautiful or devastating, but sometimes you can’t control your circumstances—all you can control is how you react to them.


“What are you thinking about?” Ambrose asks, pulling me from my thoughts.


“Just life.”


“Care to elaborate?”


I take a breath and consider my words. “It’s just crazy to think about how much things have changed in such a short amount of time.” I don’t have to explain that he’s the catalyst for all of these recent changes in my life. He knows.


“Life is weird that way.”


“What do you think about when you come up here?” I ask, turning the focus of the conversation back toward him.


“The same sort of things you just spoke of. When you’ve been alive as long as I have, so many things change, but even those changes often become predictable.”


“What do you mean?”


“The most significant changes in humanity are momentous to those who experience them—births, deaths, war, volatile politics, poverty. But the longer you live, the clearer those patterns become. Growth then destruction, hope then dismay, progress then regression. Life is cyclical that way, and it all becomes dismally predictable.”


“So why do you continue to stay even after a century and a half? If everything seems repetitive at this point, what else is there to experience?”


“I had begun to wonder that myself until recently.”


“What changed?”


“You.”


My heart constricts in my chest. “I can’t possibly be the only reason you decided to continue living your life.”


“You’re right,” he agrees, “but finding you reminded me that I haven’t seen and experienced everything there is to offer. I had gotten so comfortable in the home I’ve spent most of my life in that I had forgotten what it was like to feel that spark of curiosity and novelty. You make me want to experience life again rather than simply allow it to pass me by, to chase that spark instead of staying alive out of a sense of obligation.”


I turn to face him, and even though there’s affection in his words, a bittersweet expression crosses his face when his eyes connect with mine.


“If you’re feeling such a renewed sense of purpose, why do you look so sad?”


“Because you’re not even mine yet and I’m already terrified to lose you.”


A deep, heavy ache settles in my heart. How devastating it must be to know that you’ll outlive everyone you’ll ever love.


“I’m sorry,” I whisper, because that’s all I can think to say. Then I look back out toward the mountains.


I can’t reassure him. He’s right on both accounts; I’m not his—at least not in the way he’s referring to—and he will lose me one day. Whether he means immediately once I’ve fulfilled my end of our bargain or once I die, I’m not sure, but he’ll lose me all the same.


I used to dream about traveling as far away as I possibly could and starting a new life. Now, the thought of not having Ambrose by my side is strangely disheartening. I’ve come to appreciate his witty intelligence, his quiet intensity, and the low tenor of his voice as he reads to me in the evenings. Imagining a life without any of that feels… empty.


But I’m not going to waste my life away in the middle of these mountains after finally having the opportunity to figure out what I want and chase after it. No longer am I paralyzed by fear and indecision, and I plan on making the most of my freedom. It would be a disservice to myself not to.


My current life with Ambrose seems so juxtaposed to the future I’ve imagined for myself, yet it holds an appeal I’ve never felt—the appeal of being home. Is there ever a world in which those two things could possibly intersect? Is that even what I want, or have I simply found comfort and safety for the first time in my life with a man who I fully hated and resented up until very recently?


I have no idea.


“I’m still here, and right now is all that matters,” I tell Ambrose, though I’m not entirely sure I believe the sentiment myself.


The wind whips my hair across my face, and I push it back behind my ear. The shorter length still catches me off guard whenever I run my fingers through it.


“If I could live in this moment forever, I would,” he says so softly that I don’t know if I’m meant to hear it or if he’s thinking aloud.


I take a step closer to him, slipping my hand out of his so I can lean into his side. Instead, he turns and pulls me to him in a sudden movement, embracing me fully. I relax into him, lying my head against his chest while he holds me so tightly I fear I might break. There’s a raw, emotional intensity in the way he holds me that sinks deep into my bones and latches on to my heart.


It’s beautiful.


It’s terrifying.


“I love you, Brielle,” he murmurs. “And if you never feel that way about me, I understand. I just need you to know that my heart is yours now.”


Every thread tethering me to logic or reasoning snaps. A part of me wants to say it back, but instead, I freeze. Those three words hold so much weight, not only in the way they’re confessed like a sin, but in the implication of what it means for us, for the future.


Friendship, attraction, and affection between us are easy enough to brush away once it comes time to part. Love isn’t quite so simple. Love is complicated.


Seconds pass, but I say nothing. I squeeze him tightly, wishing I could convey my whirlwind of emotions in such a simple gesture. Eventually, he pulls away slightly, placing a soft kiss on the top of my head.


“Let’s go get some lunch,” Ambrose says with a smile that doesn’t quite reach his eyes. He’s trying not to show emotion, but his face is an open book.


He’s just as conflicted as I am.


And I don’t know what the hell to do.



OceanofPDF.com

c389





CHAPTER 40


“Be not the slave of your own past—plunge into the sublime seas, dive deep, and swim far, so you shall come back with new self-respect, with new power, and with an advanced experience that shall explain and overlook the old.”


—Ralph Waldo Emerson


“Put on something warm and come outside,” Ambrose instructs for the second time today. After our hike earlier, we’ve been suspended in the limbo between his proclamation of love and my absence of reciprocation.


“Is this the point where you finally murder me after lulling me into a false sense of security?” I tease.


“I’m not dignifying that question with a response. I’ll see you out there.” A smile teases at his lips as he goes back outside and shuts the door behind him.


I stand and make my way to the back window, grinning when I see a mountain of orange flames in the middle of the yard. Finally, he’s putting that fire pit to good use.


I shrug on one of Ambrose’s flannel jackets from the hallway closet and pull a beanie over my head before slipping on my boots and eagerly making my way to the bonfire.


Ambrose’s form is silhouetted against the bright flames towering over him as he sets out chairs. He places the two chairs a few feet apart and, after a moment, pulls them closer together. I smile.


He doesn’t notice me until I’m almost within touching distance.


When he sees me, he lifts an eyebrow, though he can’t hide the smile in his eyes. “Nice jacket.”


“I thought so,” I quip, shoving my hands in the pockets and flashing him a sweet smile.


When he gestures to the chairs, I take him up on his offer and sink down into one. The fire warms my skin, though we’re just far enough away that the heat doesn’t overwhelm me.


“I’ve always loved bonfires,” I say as Ambrose sits beside me. “My parents used to make burn piles when I was a kid, and they thought I was crazy for wanting to sit out there by the fire all night. There’s just something so calming about it, though.”


Ambrose nods. “I’m the same way. It feels like magic.”


“Exactly.”


The fire crackles between us, its light dancing in fractured gold across Ambrose’s sharp features. For a while, we don’t speak. We just sit, both watching the flames stretch and curl upward, chased by tendrils of smoke that vanish into the black sky. The brightness of the towering flames emanates over the yard, illuminating the edge of the forest only to highlight the depths of the darkness beyond. A chill crawls down my spine at the sensation—or maybe just paranoia—of being watched.


It feels like we’re both waiting. For what, I’m not sure. We’ve been balancing precariously on the edge of our emotions, and it’ll only take one tiny nudge to send us careening off the edge.


I dig my fingers deeper into the soft lining of his jacket sleeves as the scent of woodsmoke settles into the fabric. I glance over at him, wanting to confess my feelings for him and break this invisible wall between us, even if we’re both pretending it’s not there.


But the question that’s been plaguing me all day slips through my mind again. How could he possibly love me? He’s seen me at my lowest, watched me fall apart over and over again. I’m slowly getting better as the days pass, but…


“I’m scared I’ll always be this broken woman regardless of how much I change,” I admit quietly, surprising myself with the confession.


Ambrose doesn’t look at me right away. He’s still watching the fire deep in thought, though he nods slightly. A minute or two later, when he does turn to face me, he asks, “Have you ever heard the thought experiment of The Ship of Theseus?”


“No, I don’t think so.” I shake my head and wonder where he’s going with this, pulling my knees up into the seat and wrapping my arms around them.


“Imagine that after he returns from his journey, the ship that Theseus sailed on is taken from the water and put in a museum. Over time, though, its wooden boards start to rot or break, so piece by piece, every part is replaced. Eventually, none of the original material remains. So the question is—is it still the same ship?”


My brow furrows as I turn the idea over in my mind. “Well, if everything has changed, wouldn’t that make it a different ship?”


“Maybe,” he says. “But at what point does it become not the Ship of Theseus? When you’ve replaced one board? When you’ve replaced half? When you’ve replaced all of them?”


I hum, contemplating.


“I mean, it would make sense if halfway was the tipping point, right?”


He doesn’t answer my question but instead posits a new scenario. “So let’s apply this to people, then. If someone, throughout the course of their life, had every major organ transplant possible—skin, heart, kidney, etcetera. If more than half of their body parts end up being replacements, are they still the same person?”


“Well, yeah, but that’s different.”


“How?”


“Because people aren’t sentient objects. They have personalities and thoughts.”


“Okay, so if you take someone’s brain, which holds all their behaviors and personality traits, and transplant that into someone else’s body…” he trails off, letting me continue the line of thinking.


“Ugh, this is confusing.”


“That’s the point,” he chuckles. “It’s the question of what makes something what it is? Its physical parts, or its essence?”


I rest my chin on my knees, watching the fire curl around a half-burned log. “So how does this apply to me?”


“We all go through things, getting hurt and learning from our experiences, but we replace parts of ourselves as we live on—beliefs, behaviors, identities. Some pieces break and don’t come back the same, some get stronger, and some fall away entirely. Will you always be the same woman, or do those ever-changing parts of yourself mean your identity becomes something new?”


“So, what’s the answer?”


“That’s the thing,” he says. “There is no right answer. It’s up to you to decide who you are.”


I’m silent for a long time, mulling over the question. I didn’t expect to have so much of a philosophical conversation tonight, but leave it to Ambrose to get me to consider the complexities of identity.


He doesn’t rush me by adding layers to the conversation or asking me what I think. He simply lets me sit with my thoughts and ruminate.


It’s an interesting question, though: what makes me, me?


Finally, I voice my fears. “I just don’t know how I’ll ever be able to see myself as anything other than… this.”


“I don’t mean to overstep,” Ambrose says, “but I think it’s time to stop defining yourself by your past and start deciding who you want to be. Your past will never cease to exist, but there is so much more to you than the pain you’ve experienced.”


I swallow hard as the words sink in. He’s right. I’ll never be able to forget what it’s like to be in the depths of despair, alone and broken, but I no longer want to be defined by what has caused me pain. I’ve only just begun to reclaim some of my power, but I can continue to do so until the broken version of me is barely recognizable.


Sparks snap in the fire as a log breaks, and I take a deep breath, coming to terms with whatever epiphany I’ve just had.


“I’ve spent so long surviving,” I say to Ambrose. “Just pushing from one day to the next. It felt like a losing battle, so I told myself I couldn’t afford to dream, or hope, or want too much. I just had to make it through.”


Ambrose doesn’t interrupt, but his eyes bore into me, reflecting the orange flames.


I continue, “But it feels like something is shifting lately. I actually want to do more than simply survive. I want a life that’s wholly, entirely mine.”


Something solemn crosses his features. “And you’ll have that life soon.”


He doesn’t say what both of us are thinking—that as much as I want my freedom, he still holds the keys to my cage. I won’t be free until he allows me to be.


“I’m scared of starting over,” I admit. Now that I’ve opened the floodgates, the confessions won’t stop.


“You don’t have to start over. Just start from where you are, with what you have, and build from there.”


I close my eyes, focusing on the heat of the fire warming my skin and warding off the cold night air. Something profound shifts inside of me, and for the first time, the future doesn’t scare me so much. Whatever happens, wherever I go, I’ll figure it out.


Ambrose stands and pulls his chair back a few feet, gesturing for me to do the same. I do, and the thin, frigid night air envelops me, the heat from the fire just out of reach. But Ambrose shifts his chair until his shoulder is touching mine, and points to the night sky. It’s completely clear tonight, the stars like diamonds strewn across an inky black canvas. With no light pollution out here, the clarity of the night sky is breathtaking.


For the next hour, Ambrose points out various constellations in the darkness and tells me their stories from mythology. His voice, soft and soothing, calms the chaos in my heart. It’s late when we go back inside once the fire has died down, and my fingers are stiff and pink from the cold.


“Ambrose?” I murmur as we lay in his bed together, both on the edge of sleep.


“Yes?” His voice is heavy with sleep.


“I love you too.”



OceanofPDF.com

c3AF





CHAPTER 41


I’ve been dreading this day. For the past few weeks, it has been a constant, lingering presence in my mind. I don’t want to face the angels, don’t want to give more excuses to not accept their bargains, but I’ve made my choice.


I don’t know if anything more will happen between Ambrose and me after the bargain has ended, but I can’t betray him like they want me to.


Somewhere in the time we’ve spent together, he’s become a friend. A companion. My partner in crime—literally.


I try not to consider the implications that my feelings for Ambrose might have on my mortal soul. If he really is a demon rebelling against an all-powerful God, I’ve certainly secured my place in Hell by falling for him and refusing to help the angels.


I’ve been too afraid to ask him for the truth, though. Not only would that require me admitting to having spoken with the angels, but I’m not sure I’d want to know. They say that ignorance is bliss, but I’ve never quite understood the saying until now. If I don’t know the truth, I can pretend that he’s being honest and live in my blissful ignorance.


If only my questions were so easily forgotten.


All of the life seems to have faded from the forest, the color seeped from the grass and the trees to create a dreary landscape of beige and brown. The leaves have fallen, and the wind howls through the bare branches as their limbs claw into the gray sky.


Winter will descend soon, and I’ve resigned myself to spending it huddled by the fireplace in the cabin instead of going out to collect lives, though I can no longer pretend to resent my presence here. In fact, the thought of listening to Ambrose’s low, calming voice read novels and poetry while snow blankets the world outside is exponentially more appealing than the alternative—being back at home for the holidays.


I won’t have to worry about feigning a smile that becomes painful with how hard I clench my teeth, nor will I have to play the docile hostess or doting wife.


This time, I can simply be me and enjoy slow afternoons and long nights with Ambrose.


My hair whips in the frigid wind as I approach the clearing at the end of the path. Still nobody in sight. I pause for a moment, wondering how long I should wait, until I notice the door to the church is slightly ajar.


They must be waiting inside. I guess it makes sense for angels to wait in church.


My heart races as I ascend the small set of stairs and peek through the crack in the door. Samuel and Elias are standing near the pulpit and speaking in hushed tones, clearly in disagreement about something.


Holding my breath, I attempt to train my ears on their conversation, but the wind makes it impossible to hear anything other than the note of frustration lacing their words.


Samuel shushes Elias as his head snaps toward the door. I haven’t moved—hell, I haven’t breathed—but he must sense I’m here somehow. Sighing, I push the heavy door, and it opens with a slow, high-pitched creak.


“Brielle,” Samuel greets me with a smile that’s simultaneously too wide yet doesn’t reach his eyes, his voice echoing through the dusty, dilapidated room. Elias simply nods toward me in acknowledgment.


“Hi, I can’t stay for long but didn’t want to keep you two waiting,” I lie. I have no other obligations today, but leaving them hanging seemed riskier than simply telling them I won’t help them.


“Oh?” Samuel raises his eyebrows. “Do you have plans to attend to?”


I swear he can see right through me, but I don’t falter despite my heart pounding against my ribcage. I wonder offhandedly if he can hear it from across the room.


“Nothing terribly significant, just dinner with a friend, but I don’t want to be rude by showing up late.” I flash a friendly smile, but he wears an expression of skepticism. To my credit, it’s not a complete lie—Ambrose and I are supposed to be cooking together tonight.


“Have you gotten us the information we need?”


I shake my head. “Like I said last time, I can’t help you. I just came here to tell you that.”


Samuel’s expression drops for a fraction of a second before returning to one of cool neutrality. “You don’t know what a monumental mistake you’re making,” he warns.


“He’s not hurting anyone,” I argue. “I’m not going to help you take anything away from him.”


Samuel scoffs. “Not hurting anyone? Do you know how many people that man has so callously killed in order to extend his life? Do you know how many women just like you he’s manipulated?”


“He’s not manipulating me.” I almost say anymore, but stop myself before I let it slip.


Shaking his head, Samuel says with pity, “You have no idea what you’ve gotten yourself into.”


“And what would that be?” I challenge, crossing my arms over my chest.


“Do you really think you’re the first woman he’s brought here for entertainment? He’s essentially immortal. You’re nothing more than a distraction for him, a blip on his radar, a way for him to exercise his lust for power. And there is no greater power than making someone who claims to hate you fall in love with you. You’re not special to him. It’s all a game.”


You’re not special to him. The words resound in my ears, though I try to ignore them. He’s lying. The thought of his words being true makes my stomach turn, but I need to stay strong right now.


“I don’t believe you.”


He shrugs. “That will be your problem to deal with in time, then. But just know, there’s a reason he went after you. You were isolated, had no family or friends besides that awful husband of yours, and you were entirely desperate and broken. He knew you would have nowhere to run after coming here. That’s why he chose you, despite whatever proclamations he’s given about you being ‘special.’”


My breath catches in my throat. He has to be lying. The mere thought of everything between us having been a cruel game… It would ruin me.


“You’re lying,” I say, though my voice wavers. “It started as a bargain, but things have changed.”


Samuel smirks. “I didn’t want to tell you this before, but…”


“But what?”


“Our kind have no power to make binding bargains. It’s all a trick.”


“What do you mean?”


“I mean, any deal you made with Ambrose holds no more weight than a deal you might make with a friend. He used your ignorance against you, made you believe that supernatural elements were at play when there are none. It’s a tactic he likes to use for naive girls like you.”


I swallow around the knot forming in my throat and will myself not to cry. No. It can’t be true. Everything he’s said, everything I’ve done to fulfill the bargain…


My stomach rolls with nausea. It’s not like I ever tested any of the things Ambrose told me because I was too afraid of the consequences. But if any of Samuel’s arguments are true, then everything between me and Ambrose begins to unravel.


“Then why did he always care so much about when I’d be coming back?” I ask. “He said I wouldn’t be able to leave for more than a day without it affecting me physically.”


Elias draws my attention by tsking and shaking his head in disbelief, the first reaction he’s given to this conversation since it started. For what it’s worth, he looks genuinely sympathetic.


Still, Samuel answers. “That’s difficult to answer. Maybe he was worried you’d stay away if you left. But from what I know of him, the only thing he’d ever care to part with is his artifact.”


Dread sinks like a stone in my stomach.


Because every time I left the house without him, I had that stone around my neck.


Maybe it’s true, and maybe it’s not, but his argument is becoming more convincing by the second. What the hell do I do?


“If you don’t believe me, test one of his lies,” Samuel says, noticing the conflict warring in my eyes that I no longer have the will to hide. “Leave for a few days, because I guarantee you’ll be perfectly fine.”


I shake my head. “I can’t. He would find me and⁠—”


“No,” he interrupts. “He wouldn’t. As long as you don’t have his artifact, he has no way of finding you beyond normal means.”


“But…” My mind is a whirlwind of conflicting thoughts and emotions. But what? I have nothing more to say.


The silence stretches between us for a few moments as I weigh my options.


“What will you do?” Samuel asks.


“I’m going to leave. Just for a couple days,” I add, “to see if it affects me in the way he says it will.”


“And if it doesn’t? Will you come back?”


Silence.


Somehow, I hadn’t thought about that next step with all the chaos in my mind.


“I’m not sure,” I answer in a voice devoid of any emotion before turning and walking out the church.


The trees encroaching on either side of the path seem to close in on me as I hustle forward. My mind is reeling, but I focus just long enough to conjure up an excuse for leaving should I run into Ambrose inside.


Sure enough, he’s in the kitchen chopping vegetables for whatever dinner he’s preparing to make tonight—the one we’re supposed to make together—and his eyes flick up to meet mine as soon as the door shuts behind me.


“How was your walk?” He asks with a gentle smile.


That tiny, insignificant tilt of his lips is almost enough to fracture my heart. One side of my brain screams, It’s all a trick! While the other side whispers, There’s no way he could fake this affection. The conflict makes me want to scream, tear my hair out, hit something, anything to make it go away.


But nothing will be able to help this besides proving one side wrong or right.


“It was good,” I say. “It’s getting cold.” It’s the most obvious statement I could make, but he doesn’t seem to think twice about it.


“It is. We should go out and get you a better coat soon. It’ll start snowing any day now.”


I nod, but a familiar emptiness is already consuming my body. The pain of knowing I may never come back, may never see him again, is too strong, and my brain is fighting back the only way it knows how—by shutting down until I’m a shell of myself. The emotion will fester wherever it’s hiding until it explodes without warning, but that’s a problem for future me.


I just can’t allow him to see me breaking. Not again.


So, I fake it. I cook and eat dinner with him while pretending like nothing’s wrong. I had thought that hiding my pain was an act I’d mastered, but Ambrose casts curious looks in my direction, his brows pinched together in concern.


“Is everything okay?” He finally asks me as we’re cleaning up the kitchen after dinner.


“Yeah, I’m just tired. Didn’t sleep very well last night. I’ve also just been thinking about tomorrow.”


“What’s tomorrow?”


I feign surprise. “Oh, I didn’t tell you? I found another person to kill.” I say it so casually, it surprises even me. “As usual, one less terrible person in the world, and one more fragment of a lifetime closer to fulfilling my end of our deal.”


The hopefully convincing smile I cast his way goes unreturned, and the beat of silence between my quip and his answer is unnerving. What if he somehow figured out what happened and that I don’t plan to return?


When he speaks, though, he doesn’t give any indication that he’s aware of my plans. “Do you want me to come with you?”


“No, that’s okay. I’d like to do this one on my own.”


His brow furrows. “Who is it?”


“It’s a surprise,” I say with another false smile, though I attempt to make this one more conspiratorial.


Again, he raises his eyebrows but doesn’t smile back.


“Are you okay?” I can’t help but ask. He had asked me the same question earlier, but it’s clear there’s something going on in his mind that he’s not letting on.


“Yes, but I’d like to talk to you about some things.”


My heart rate quickens. “When?”


“I was planning on having a conversation this week, but now I think tonight may be the best time for it.”


Shit. What do I do? Maybe he did figure out what was going on with the angels. But if that’s the case, and if he truly has lied to me about so much, he’s going to use his talents of persuasion to tell me exactly what I want to hear.


And I can’t let myself be fooled again. I need the space to clear my mind before I can hear out whatever he wants to say.


“Can we wait until after I get back?” I ask, feigning a yawn. “I’m actually a little excited about tomorrow, and I’d like to get to sleep soon so I can leave early.”


He looks conflicted, and his posture deflates slightly when he says, “Okay. Sure. We’ll talk when you get back.”


“Perfect. Goodnight.”


“Goodnight, Brielle. Come home safe.”


I hold back the tide of emotion that’s threatening to break through the walls I’ve put up, and when I round the corner to head upstairs, I slip Ambrose’s necklace out of its usual place in my purse and set it on the small table beside the doorway.


I won’t be needing it tomorrow—or maybe ever again—but Ambrose won’t realize that until it’s too late. I’ll be gone before he’s awake, and I don’t know if I’ll ever be back.



OceanofPDF.com

c3DK





CHAPTER 42


AMBROSE

November


Every time she leaves, the weight of my lies crushes me a little bit more.


I know I manipulated her into this deal in the first place, but everything inside me wants to tell her the truth—that she doesn’t have to do this anymore—to make her stay here with me away from the danger that these men pose.


The last time she went out to kill on her own, she’d gotten hurt, and I would never be able to forgive myself if something worse happened.


Something seemed different before when she left this time. She was colder, though I can’t figure out why. I would have understood if my professing my love for her last week had pushed her away, but she maintained the same level of affection for days afterward. It’s only this evening that she has started hiding behind feigned smiles.


I don’t know what happened that made her entire demeanor shift so quickly, but I’m desperately hoping it had nothing to do with me despite the churning in my gut telling me that something is really wrong.


My only options at this point are to continue pretending or to admit I lied about our deal being anything more than eloquent words and my taking advantage of her naiveté. When she finds out this was all a lie, she’ll leave, and I’ll be devastated. Empty. Even now, thinking about it makes my chest ache. But the longer I allow her to put herself in precarious situations to kill these increasingly powerful men, the more I put her at risk.


I need to admit the lie I’ve buried myself in, even if it means letting her go forever.



OceanofPDF.com

c3E6





CHAPTER 43


“I have love in me the likes of which you can scarcely imagine and rage the likes of which you would not believe. If I cannot satisfy the one, I will indulge the other.”


—Mary Shelley


Despite my best efforts, I’m unable to sleep, even though I know I’ll desperately need the rest for the day ahead. I’ve spent the entire night tossing and turning, thinking through what I’ll do once I leave here. Where I’ll go. Who I’ll be.


When 4:30 a.m. rolls around and I still haven’t slept, I take a deep breath and brace myself for what’s ahead, the cold numbness growing as I come to terms with my reality.


The floor is frigid beneath my feet as I stand and, as quietly as possible, bundle up in thick layers. My suitcase is already packed and waiting by the bedroom door. I cast one last glance around the room to make sure I’m not forgetting anything essential, then grab my suitcase and creep down the stairs, saying a silent prayer that Ambrose stays fast asleep.


When I make it downstairs and to the front door, I turn and take in the sight of the dark, cozy cabin for one last time. A place that once felt like a prison now feels like a home, a refuge.


But I can’t stay, I remind myself. And with that, I shrug my purse over my shoulder, lift my suitcase, and head outside into the brisk November night.


The black sky seems like it might swallow me whole as I walk across the yard to where the Camaro is parked. I sort of wish it would.


I flick the headlights on once I’ve pulled out onto the road, and I take the winding curves slowly. The devastation of leaving Ambrose is one thing, but the dread of where I’m headed is another. But I need to go back one last time.


Once I make it onto the highway, I head southeast. Anytime my thoughts turn to Ambrose and my heart begins to ache, I remind myself why I’m doing this. I need my freedom, and he tricked me into giving it away. Regardless of what he may have lied about, he never should have fooled me into making a deal with him. Especially one that forced me to witness death at the very least, and kill at the very worst.


I can’t say I’m shocked that I chose the most fucked up path I could.


All that visceral pain morphs back into rage and betrayal, and that’s what fuels me for the rest of the drive.


The sun is just beginning to crest over the horizon when I take the exit onto the interstate. The vibrant sunrises of summer are long gone, replaced by pewter gray skies and watery light. It’s an apt reflection of the familiar hollowness creeping back into my body with every passing hour.


Less than sixty minutes until I’m home—well, until I’m at the house I used to call home, before I knew what a home really felt like.


Joel will be leaving for work right around now and won’t be back until five at the earliest. That gives me plenty of time to take whatever I need and leave.


Leave and go where? I’m not sure. I’ll probably stay close to the area for a day or two, just to make sure that the angels were telling the truth about my ability to escape without physical consequences, but after that, I’ll be free.


After all, freedom is all I’ve wanted for as long as I can remember. So why does the idea seem so daunting, so overwhelming, so… lonely?


It doesn’t have to be that way, the voice in my head whispers. Give him another chance.


I can’t, though. I gave Joel another chance after the first time he lied to me, and look where that got me. It was a slippery slope that led to him taking total control over me. I can’t go through something like that again. I won’t.


Before I know it, I’m pulling off the highway and navigating the familiar streets of the city. The familiarity doesn’t send a pang of sadness through me like I thought it would. I’ve lived eight years of my life in this part of town, but the only memories it holds are ones I’d rather forget.


My chest tightens as I pull onto my street and park in a space a block down from the house. I sit there in the silence, both anxious about going inside and ready to get it over with.


Taking a deep breath, I tell myself that it won’t last long, that I’ll be in and out as quickly as possible, and I exit the car to make my way down the street and to the front door before unlocking it with the key I kept just in case.


It’s surreal being back here again. It’s only been a few months, but some part of me thought it would look different, feel different.


It doesn’t, aside from the slight mess caused by a man who’s used to a woman cleaning up after him. A pile of dishes in the kitchen sink, shoes tossed haphazardly next to the doorway, a jacket thrown over the back of the couch. At least he’s managed to keep the place looking decent, though.


I make my way to the master bedroom and find an empty duffel bag beneath the bed, which I toss on top of the rumpled blankets atop the bed. From there, I gather up clothing, shoes, and various toiletries that I hadn’t bothered to bring with me the first time I left. I also empty my jewelry box of anything valuable in hopes of pawning it for more money.


Speaking of money… I rustle through Joel’s nightstand, searching for cash but only finding the usual items—his pistol, which I unfortunately can’t pawn since it’s registered to his name—a self help book about personal discipline, and a few condoms. Those are new, but I can’t bring myself to care about who my husband might be fucking.


I manage to find a little bit of cash—about thirty dollars—in his dirty pants pockets, which I toss into the duffel bag. He won’t even notice it’s gone.


After packing the bag with anything else I can think of, I stop and just stand in the room. I don’t know what I expected to feel. Vindicated? Empowered? All I feel is a dull, grinding ache in my chest, like something's eroding me from the inside.


Where will I go?


The west coast comes to mind again. Somewhere like Seattle or Los Angeles. Cities so dense with people that a single soul could disappear completely. I could find some cheap apartment, maybe waitress somewhere and eventually go to college. Change my name, start anew.


But even that feels enormous right now.


I shake the doubt away. One step at a time, I remind myself, just like I did that first night I ran away from here. Just like I did when I told Ambrose goodbye without him even knowing it, even as my heart screamed at me not to.


I hate that part of me still wants to believe him. The part that wants to collapse in his arms so he can tell me it’ll all be okay.


But no, I can’t trust anyone who twists the truth to manipulate me, no matter what his intentions were.


I zip the bag and toss it by the front door. I’m grabbing a spare blanket from the closet when I hear it.


The unmistakable sound of the front door opening.


Then closing.


Every muscle in my body goes rigid. I stop breathing. My ears ring.


Heavy, measured footsteps sound in the hallway, and I’d know the ominous sound of those boots anywhere.


Joel.


My brain splinters into fragments, each one offering a solution to this problem but none of them viable. Maybe I can hide. I stagger back a few steps and inch toward the bedroom window, yanking the curtain aside with shaky hands.


His patrol car is parked right out front.


Fuck.


He’s not supposed to be here. For years, he’s worked the same shift, rarely coming home during his lunch.


Panic claws its way through my stomach.


The bedroom door is closed, but there’s no other escape route. Maybe he won’t come in here. I consider hiding beneath the bed, but if he finds me while I’m lying on the ground, I’ll have no fighting chance. At least if I stay upright, I might be able to run.


His footsteps come closer, and sheer, panicked terror freezes me in place. The last time I tried to escape him, I couldn’t leave the house for weeks afterward, my body covered in blotchy purple bruises and my spirit broken. If he catches me now, it will be a hundred times worse. I won’t make it out alive.


The floorboards creak right outside the door.


“Brielle?”


He’s here. He knows I’m here. Shit. I left the bag by the door.


A shadow breaks the sliver of light beneath the door.


What the hell do I do?


I hold my breath, and the bedroom door opens.





Joel stands frozen, as do I, as we stare each other down—me in terror, and him with a range of emotions flitting across his expression in rapid succession. Shock, confusion, suspicion, anger.


“Where the hell have you been?” he demands.


“I—um, I just...” I trail off. What the hell could I possibly say? There’s no lying my way out of this one, no pretending to be the docile wife who doesn’t know what’s happening. I’ve been away for almost three months now.


“You what?” Joel crosses his arms over his chest, staring me down with growing rage brewing in his eyes.


I take a step backward but lift my chin. “I left.”


“No fucking shit. Where? Who were you with?”


Of course he wouldn’t ask why. No, that would involve a critique of him and me explaining why I was unhappy. He doesn’t give a damn about that. He simply wants to know if someone else took ownership of the woman he deems his property.


But I’m done with hiding, with appeasing men who don’t deserve my attention, much less my obedience. No longer will I be a woman who makes myself smaller to fill the roles others carve out for me.


“It doesn’t matter,” I tell Joel in a firm tone as I take another step backward. “I left because I couldn’t handle being here for another second. We’re better off without each other, and I think you know that too.”


He scoffs. “Do you know how fucking embarrassing this has been for me? Having to make excuses about why my wife has disappeared after slitting her wrists? My reputation has been under fire because you decided you’d rather go off gallivanting who-knows-where, so I look like an idiot who can’t even keep control of his wife.”


“That’s the problem. You want control over me, and all I’ve ever wanted from you is love and acceptance. You couldn’t even give me that. You tried to erase every piece of me that didn’t fit the caricature you had imagined for a wife. I became a shell of myself who was too afraid to live.”


His face reddens as his fury grows. “I gave you everything—a nice house, money for good food and clothes, a life where you don’t have to work. When we met, you barely had enough money to feed yourself, let alone do anything with your life. Hell, your parents didn’t even give a shit if they ever saw you again once you left. You’d be nothing without me.”


My heart races at the familiar sight of him clenching and unclenching his fists at his sides. I take another small step back.


“That’s the problem,” I say, even as my hands shake and my heart pounds. “You never even asked me what I wanted. I’d rather be broke and happy than provided for and miserable.” He rolls his eyes, as if my use of the word “miserable” is some melodramatic overstatement.


“You don’t know what you want,” he sneers.


“I do,” I say calmly. “And I’m leaving again. For good this time.”


“Like hell you are.”


Fear spikes in my veins when he takes a step toward me, then another. But I take my final step backward and feel the back of my legs hit the bedside table next to Joel’s side of the bed. In an instant, I wrench the drawer open and grab the pistol Joel has kept there in all the time we’ve been together.


He stops only a few feet away from me, his eyes wide with shock as I flick the safety off and point the pistol at him.


“Put that down before you hurt yourself.” It figures that even in the face of death, he’s still a cocky asshole.


“No.”


That one words shifts something irrevocably between us. Courage surges through me, and he’s entirely thrown off kilter, like he expected me to listen to him without question, like I truly don’t know what I’m doing by pointing a gun at him.


His hand moves to his hip, where his work-issued gun is holstered.


“Don’t move or I’ll shoot.”


He halts his movement.


“Brielle,” he warns, his voice softer now as he raises his palms toward me. “You’re overreacting. You’re emotional about this, and I get that. But don’t do anything stupid. Killing me is not the answer.”


A laugh bubbles up in my throat, and I’m fully aware that I look absolutely deranged right now. Joel’s expression morphs to one of panicked confusion, but I can’t stop laughing. Maybe it’s the stress, or maybe I have really lost my mind. But leave it to him to blame an action as severe as pointing a gun at him on my being emotional.


I want to inform him that I’ve killed multiple people over the last few months, premeditated murders with careful planning and precision. I killed men just like him, who love power more than anything else, who use that power to hurt others. I don’t tell him, though. I’m not sure he would believe me if I did.


“Brielle,” he says again, this time with more urgency. “Just put down the gun and we can talk this out.”


I cock an eyebrow. “Really? And how do you suppose we’ll talk it out?”


“I—I can change,” he blurts, desperate to get out of this situation.


Too bad for him, I’ve heard all this bullshit before, and I don’t believe him for a second. Men like him never change.


“I don’t believe you,” I say matter-of-factly.


Right before I pull the trigger.



OceanofPDF.com

c3HD





CHAPTER 44


Joel collapses to the carpet with a heavy thud seconds after the bullet hits his chest. Shock colors his expression as his face blanches. Never in a million years would he have guessed that his demise would be by my hand. There’s a sort of poetic justice in the situation—a man who reveled in the power he holds over others being killed by the woman he broke.


He coughs weakly, blood gurgling from his open mouth and staining the carpet beside him. With each passing second, he becomes paler.


A part of me expects to feel the guilt sink in any second—this is my husband, after all—but it never comes, even as I watch the carpet darken with his blood. There’s nothing besides cold detachment and a sense of liberation, even as the light leaves his eyes and he takes a final shuddering breath.


I stare at him for minutes, as if making sure he’s really gone.


I just murdered my husband. And this time, there was no justification for the murder, no convincing myself I had to kill out of necessity due to the deal I made with Ambrose.


No, I simply shot him out of resentment and rage. A cold desire for revenge.


Does this make me a monster?


I’m not sure if I care either way.


All the bruises and scars I’ve suffered from him, the years of becoming a shadow of myself, have culminated into this moment. Frankly, he deserved to suffer more, but at least I know that he’ll never hurt anyone from now on.


Never again will I allow a man to control me or define me.


I rush to collect the items I’ve come here for, knowing I’m on borrowed time now that I’ve killed Joel. If he’s on his lunch break like I’m assuming he is, it won’t be long before someone starts to wonder where he is.


I need to hurry.


I shove more clothes into the duffel bag along with the gun—I hadn’t planned on taking it, but now it’s a murder weapon with my fingerprints all over it—and scan the room just to see if there’s anything else I might want to take. There isn’t. I step over Joel’s limp body and close the bedroom door behind me, then survey the living room. Unsurprisingly, there’s nothing meaningful here to me. I’ve lived the last eight years of my life in this house, and it feels just as impersonal as the day I moved in.


The bookshelf catches my eye, though, and I pause. Making my way over to the dusty stacks, I zero in on the title I’m looking for and slip it into my bag.


It’s one of the very few possessions I’ve kept since I was a teenager, but The Secret Garden has always been one of my favorites.


My immediate thought is, I wonder what Ambrose thinks of this one. I try to shake the thought of him, but as soon as he enters my mind, I’m unable to force it away no matter how hard I try.


Damn it.


Stay strong, I tell myself. It’ll hurt less someday.


I just wish it didn’t hurt so fucking much now.


The front door shuts with a final but unceremonious thud as I leave the house for the last time ever. I hurry down the sidewalk to the Camaro, tossing the bag in the trunk before collapsing into the driver’s seat.


It’s only when I’m rummaging through my purse to grab the car keys that my fingers close around something familiar.


I pull it out, running my fingers along the ridges of the familiar dark stone. What the hell? I had been sure to take the necklace out of my purse last night, knowing I wouldn’t be returning. Ambrose must have put it back in after I had gone upstairs.


Ambrose.


Shit.


Without this, he’ll only have a fraction of his strength and no protection. I shouldn’t care, since he probably has enough years left for many lifetimes, but there’s an uneasy, foreboding feeling gnawing at my gut.


Something is wrong.


I start the car and speed down the street as the pieces click together in my mind. The angels didn’t want Ambrose’s necklace at all—they simply wanted him without it, weakened and vulnerable.


They couldn’t have known I’d have the necklace with me, so their only other motivation for getting me to leave would be so I couldn’t warn him once I figured it out. So he’d be blindsided.


The first time I had encountered them in the woods, they had claimed they wanted to prevent him from killing anyone else, but they had also made it clear how much they despised his existence.


I’m so fucking stupid.


I slip the necklace over my head and will the magic to work, obscuring me from notice as the speedometer climbs into triple digits.


I need to get to him—fast.


It was all a cleverly orchestrated ruse. Maybe Ambrose had lied, but the angels used that to their advantage to get me away from him.


Deep down, my gut had told me something was off about them, and I had ignored it. It’s all starting to make sense now. I don’t know what their vendetta against him is, but it’s clear now that they want him gone.


And now he might be, and it’s all my fault. I played right into their game.


They’re coming after him. I just hope I’m not too late.


My heart races as I finally pull off the highway and take the now-familiar route to Ambrose’s house. The rain pelting against the windshield and the sharply winding mountain roads force me to slow down, but I take the curves as quickly as I can.


Please be safe, please be safe, please be safe. The words are a silent, desperate plea resounding in my head as I get closer.


I don’t know what I’ll do if they’ve already hurt him. I had convinced myself I would probably be okay with leaving him, at least for a while, but if he gets hurt, or worse…


Panic wells up inside of me and I force it back down. I need to stay strong right now.


Gravelly mud squishes up under my tires as I rush down the driveway, noting Ambrose’s other car is still parked where it always is.


Without considering anything else, I grab the gun from the top of the duffel bag in the passenger seat and shove it into my coat pocket before rushing to the front door.


“Ambrose?” I call as soon as I fling the door open.


No reply. I run into his bedroom, but it’s empty.


I don’t even bother to close the door behind me as I sprint to the garage out back. Please be in there.


But even from here, in the dreary gray afternoon, I can tell the lights are all off. I check anyway, and my panicked shout echoes off the walls of the empty building.


He has to be around here somewhere, which means there’s only one place left that he could be.


The church.


I run down the path, the freezing rain like needles against my face as I sprint across the pale, dead grass.


When the old church comes into view, my heart drops. The door is cracked open, but the energy reverberating through my bones tells me something’s wrong—like electricity in the air right before lightning strikes.


I don’t even pause to consider the potential danger of walking into the church. The only thing running through my mind is the desperate, raw hope that I’m not too late, and that Ambrose is still alive.



OceanofPDF.com

c3KA





CHAPTER 45


"These violent delights have violent ends,


And in their triumph die, like fire and powder,


Which as they kiss consume.”


—William Shakespeare


The church looms at the end of the clearing like a monolith, pale as bone against the gray sky.


Through the rain, all I see is the flash of Ambrose’s black coat as he enters through the heavy wooden doors. I cry out to warn him, practically screaming his name, but he doesn’t hear me over the torrent of raindrops hurtling against the vinyl siding of the church.


The freezing air burns my lungs, coming out in clouds of vapor as I race to the doors, dead grass crunching underfoot.


The hinges shriek when I fling the door open. Inside, the air is still, the atmosphere blurring the thin line between sacred and sinister.


“What an unexpected surprise,” Samuel muses with a glance over his shoulder. All pretenses of goodness are gone, revealing the sinister creature beneath the mask. The warm glow that usually surrounds him is gone, replaced by a sharp crackling of frenetic energy.


Every one of the dozens of candles is lit, their light flickering throughout the room, throwing wavering shadows across every surface and illuminating the rich colors of the stained glass windows.


A small rush of relief fills me when I see Ambrose, still alive and well, standing near the pulpit. His eyes are trained on me, mirroring my relief but reflecting the same fear sinking into my skin with the situation we’ve found ourselves in.


Elias and Samuel face him, their backs to me, though Elias’ eyes flit between all of us with unease.


I freeze in the doorway, the gun heavy in my coat pocket, the necklace cold against my skin.


“Brielle, stay back. They’re dangerous,” Ambrose warns.


Before I can reply, Samuel says, “Oh, she’s well aware of who we are. Isn’t that right, Brielle?”


Ambrose’s jaw slackens as his eyebrows knit together in confusion, his gaze sliding from Samuel to me and back again. “What do you mean?”


“She’s been meeting us here for months now. Though it was my understanding that she’d be gone by now after we told her about your lies when it came to the bargain.”


“It’s not what you think,” Ambrose pleads, remorse and fear twisting his features.


I want to say the same thing, especially as a sneer crosses Samuel’s expression as he looks between us.


“What a tragedy,” he taunts. “The star-crossed lovers have both betrayed each other, and now they both will die.”


All the breath leaves my lungs as the reality of the situation sets in. They’re going to kill us.


The candles seem to flicker in response to the intensity of his words.


“Why are you doing this?” My voice breaks on the question.


Samuel chuckles. “I’ve been alive for centuries, and killing humans has become so… dull. They’re so gullible, so breakable. To you, it would be like picking up a newborn kitten and snapping its neck. And where’s the fun in something so simple?”


My stomach rolls at the image he paints in my mind.


He continues, “I got bored, needed a challenge. And what better way to challenge myself and gain hundreds of years at once than by taking the lives of those like me? It levels out the playing field, so to speak.”


“Must not have been too easy if you needed my help,” I snarl.


Harsh, white light flashes across his pupils. “Careful, girl. If I were you, I’d run while you still have a fighting chance of getting away.”


No. I’m done with running. I’m going to fight to my dying breath if that’s what it takes.


“You’re not killing him,” I say. My voice is strong despite the fear that’s so potent it’s paralyzing.


Samuel snarls, an ugly sound from such a beautiful mouth. “Still has you trained, I see.”


Ambrose, from where he stands on the pulpit, has managed to regain a semblance of his indifferent, wry persona. “Watch it, Sammy. She rather likes being my pet.”


The nickname makes me smile despite the dire situation we’ve found ourselves in.


And just like that, the room plunges into silence again. The only sound is the rain hammering against the stained glass windows, washing the dusty church in watery, dripping colors.


“Let’s get this over with so I never have to visit this godforsaken backwoods place again,” Samuel says. He steps forward toward Ambrose, raising his hand palm-up as white sparks begin to gather above his hand.


He’s going to kill him.


“No!” I yell, running toward his back without considering the death trap I’m walking into. I have to do something, anything. All my disdain for Ambrose is temporarily forgotten under the threat of losing him forever. We can argue later, but right now, I need to make sure he lives.


But when I reach Samuel, he simply turns and backhands me with a force that knocks me to the ground. So much power in such a simple flick of the wrist.


Fire sears through me, and my vision goes black momentarily, my head seeming weighted with stones that drag me downward as I collapse to the ground behind him.


I think I hear my name shouted in the distance, but everything is dark and nebulous.


My vision is blurred when I manage to crack open my eyes despite the pressure pounding against my skull, but I can see Samuel gathering that electricity again, allowing it to build and build until it contains enough force to take out a being as powerful as Ambrose, whose abilities are diminished without his necklace.


The necklace. I need to give him the necklace. But he’s so far away, and my limbs feel like they’re weighed down with lead. He seems to shift with the shadows, in and out of focus as he attempts to disorient Samuel.


It’s then that I realize the pistol is still in my coat pocket, the hard metal digging into my abdomen through the lining


As quickly and quietly as possible, I unzip my coat just enough to reach into the inner pocket. Elias’s gaze flits toward me, but he turns away, either pretending not to notice or not caring what I do since they’re essentially immortal.


Wait, shit. Will a gunshot even kill them? Probably not. I need their artifacts.


Think, think, think.


Through my blurred vision, I examine Samuel with increasing urgency. Then, it hits me. His pocket watch. He’s had it every time I’ve seen him and is constantly fidgeting with it. That has to be it.


Fighting the weakness still threatening to overtake me, I crawl over to Samuel, push myself up just enough to reach his waist level, reach out, and yank the thin gold chain that’s attached to his pants.


It interrupts his focus long enough for the light in his hand to fizzle out once more, and as soon as he turns to face me, I throw the onyx necklace as hard as I can in Ambrose’s direction, hoping it will provide him the strength and protection he needs. If only one of us has to live, I want it to be him.


Even though I’ve begun to daydream about living out my days in the comfort of his cabin, even though I’m filled with a yearning for life that I’ve never had, even though our story has just begun and might already be coming to a tragic end.


I want to live.


Samuel gapes down at me with a furrowed brow, as if he’s shocked I’m even still alive in the first place. When he realizes what I’m holding—what I’ve taken from him—he lunges for me. But I’m too quick.


My gun is drawn and pointed at him, and the bang of the gunshot reverberates against the walls of the church, ringing in my ears, before everything falls into deafening silence.


Samuel is dead before he even hits the ground, the bullet going straight through his forehead. I back up just enough to miss the impact of his body hitting the ground.


Elias is five or six feet away—too far for me to reach him. I don’t know what his relic is either, but I point the gun at him all the same.


His eyes widen in fear. “Please don’t,” he croaks out, but he doesn’t move. My finger is still pressed against the trigger. I’m not sure why I hesitate.


“You helped him,” I say. The words feel thick on my tongue, like I’m speaking through a mouthful of cotton. “You lied to me. Tried to kill Ambrose.” My vision swims, and I’m sure it’s only the fury burning through me keeping me conscious.


He shakes his head frantically, taking small steps backward, but he’s trapped between the pews with his back facing the wall.


I could shoot him right now and not feel an ounce of regret. I could kill yet another man—angel, demon, whatever the hell he really is—and justify the action without a second thought.


“It was never part of the plan,” he pleads. “Everything got out of control so quickly with him. Please give me a chance to explain.”


“Standing aside to encourage evil deeds makes you no better than the perpetrator.” I take a deep, shaky breath, but it doesn’t feel like enough oxygen. I take another, and another, until I’m practically hyperventilating. What’s happening to me?


My fingertips are numb, but I know I’m only a fraction of an inch away from putting another bullet in someone who tried to kill the only man I’ve ever truly loved.


“Brielle.” I don’t even realize Ambrose has moved until his voice is directly in my ear. He gently places a hand over my forearm and presses down, forcing me to lower the gun. “It’s exceedingly rare for me to say this, but I think he deserves a second chance.”


I nod, letting the gun clatter to the floor as my body continues to revolt against me. My eyes flutter closed.


“You saved me,” Ambrose murmurs in awe. “Please be okay.”


I sink deeper into unconsciousness.


“Please,” Ambrose whispers. “I can’t lose you too.”


They’re the last words I hear before I fade into darkness.



OceanofPDF.com

c3NU





CHAPTER 46


“All human wisdom is contained in these two words—‘wait and hope.’”


—Alexandre Dumas


The sound of low, concerned voices drifts through my consciousness, dragging me from heavy sleep. When I open my eyes, I’m disoriented for a moment until I realize I’m in Ambrose’s bed. For a moment, relief falls over me with the familiarity of the room and the smell of Ambrose on the sheets.


Then reality slams into me as the memories flood back. The devastation of leaving, the vindictive satisfaction of killing Joel, the terror of realizing my mistake, and the desperation of hoping I didn’t get back to Ambrose too late.


They almost killed him. They didn’t, but the severity of what we so narrowly avoided is enough to open the raw wound in my heart anew.


He’s alive, I remind myself, taking a deep breath to steady my racing heart.


The only thing I remember before losing consciousness is the crushing pressure in my skull, the overwhelming sensation of panic, and the peace that came with knowing Ambrose was safe.


I sit up slowly, expecting to feel that same throbbing ache in my head, or at least some soreness from being knocked to the ground by Samuel, but as I stretch and slowly stand, I’m shocked by the realization that there is no pain, not even as much as tenderness from a bruise.


How long have I been out?


I stand there for another moment, waiting for something to kick in, but I only become more awake. Weirdly enough, I feel rejuvenated, and less tired than I’ve felt in ages.


The floorboards creak beneath me as I make my way out of the room and down the hallway, following the low voices to the study. There, Ambrose and Elias sit across from each other deep in conversation. Their voices pause at the sight of me in the doorway.


“You’re awake,” Ambrose breathes in a relieved sigh as he rushes out of his seat to wrap me in his arms.


“Hello to you, too.” I smile against his chest, inhaling his calming, familiar scent and returning his embrace.


He pulls back only slightly to look down at me, as if he’s searching for anything that might indicate I’m not alright. “How are you feeling? You’ve been asleep for almost a full day.”


“I feel good. Really good, weirdly enough.”


He and Elias exchange a loaded look.


“Is everything okay?” I ask.


Ambrose’s lips lift in a small, knowing smile. “I think it’s best if you sit down. We have some things to discuss.”


I do as he says, partly wishing I could make some coffee first, but I take the spot directly beside him on the couch and lean into his side as he wraps his arm around my shoulders.


“Elias,” I say coldly in acknowledgment to the man sitting across from us.


“Hello, Brielle.” He’s clearly nervous, wringing his hands in his lap, already a man of few words but made more cautious by the situation—whatever the situation is. I realize I don’t actually know what he’s doing here in the first place. A part of me had assumed he’d run and never look back.


Ambrose’s voice is gentle when he says, “Elias used his powers to heal you after the incident at the church.”


Oh. “Thank you,” I mutter.


“Realistically, you shouldn’t have survived Samuel’s attack,” Ambrose says. “It’s impossible to know for sure, but we believe your possession of my artifact allowed you to fight off the effects of his attack just long enough to… well, to do what you needed to do.”


Elias chimes in next. His voice is soft and soothing, and as much as I try to resist it, it does put me slightly at ease. “But, we think there may have been some… unintended consequences from Samuel’s death.”


“What do you mean?”


“You were holding Ambrose’s artifact first, which allowed you to stay alive from Samuel’s attack. However, you were holding Samuel’s artifact when you killed him. To my knowledge, a Liminal being has never been killed by a human in possession of their artifact.”


“So what does that mean?”


“Well… we believe that Samuel’s powers and lifespan may have transferred to you.”


It takes a moment for the words to register. His powers and his lifespan. Magic, and the potential of eternity.


Ambrose notices my slack-jawed, wide-eyed expression and squeezes my shoulder in reassurance. “It’s better that you find out sooner rather than later, but I know this is hard to process.”


My mouth is dry when I ask, “And my lifespan? What is it?”


“Only you can tap into that information through your artifact,” Elias says. My artifact. The pocket watch is mine now. “It won’t be an exact number, but it will give you an idea of the life you have yet to live.”


I nod, trying to process this information as best I can. I have supernatural abilities now. I am functionally immortal so long as I choose to be. Ambrose being this way was one thing—there was a level of separation that allowed me to disregard the implausibility of it all—but becoming the same as him forces me to come to terms with the understanding that this is real, though a part of me is convinced I’m still asleep and dreaming.


“You don’t have to know if you don’t want to,” Ambrose assures me. “You can just pretend it doesn’t exist if that’s what you want to do.”


“But I still have all those years left to live now, right?”


He nods.


“Then I need to know. I won’t be able to stop wondering otherwise.”


Ambrose pulls the small, gold pocket watch from his pocket and hands it to me. I take it gingerly, as if it might explode as soon as I touch it, but a sense of rightness washes over me as soon as I cradle it in my hand. Yes, it seems to say, I belong to you now. I am a part of you.


I close my eyes as the metal warms in my hand, and though I have no clue what I’m doing, I try to tap into the same feeling with it as I did with the necklace before. Silently, I will it to tell me how many years it holds—how many years I have to live.


Just as Elias had said, it doesn’t give me an exact number, but the vastness of the number is staggering. Centuries upon centuries.


I gasp, and my eyes fly open.


“It’s… a long time,” I stutter in explanation. Probably enough to rival Ambrose’s, if not more. But even more unbelievable than that is the fact that I’m not devastated by the prospect of living so long. I’m eager to see what the future holds in those endless years, when six months ago, I was sitting in a bathtub slitting my wrists and craving oblivion.


It’s funny how life changes.


“Has this ever happened before?” I ask. “A human becoming like this without dying, I mean.”


Ambrose answers, “Not that I know of.”


Elias echoes his answer.


“Let’s hope it doesn’t piss off the big man upstairs that this happened,” I chuckle, but the joke falls flat and Elias visibly cringes. “Umm, is there something I should know?”


They exchange another heavy look before Elias lowers his voice and says, “Nobody is supposed to remember their first time meeting The Creator, but I do. I remember every second of it, and I’m certain it’s some sort of fluke. Knowing what I know about Him, we should hope that he doesn’t find out.”


Great. I’ve made a potential enemy of God himself, apparently.


“Was it true that you and Samuel were working on his behalf?”


“No. I had believed his claim at first, but Samuel was dangerous and manipulative, which made him unreliable. However, I don’t doubt that our Creator utilizes others like us as his pawns.” Elias slumps back in his chair, exhaustion written all over his features. “For what it’s worth, I am sorry. I should have done more to stop him, but I didn’t know how, and I’ve only been living this way for a couple decades. Samuel took me under his wing, so to speak, and I didn’t understand his scheme until it was too late. But I’ll do whatever I can to make it up to you.”


I nod, and Ambrose says to Elias, “I think it may be time for Brielle and I to catch up, but you’re welcome to stay if you need to.”


“The place I’m staying is not far from here,” he answers. “But I’d like to come back to say hello in a few days, if that’s alright.”


“You’re welcome anytime.”


With that, Elias leaves, and Ambrose and I are left in the weight of the silence that follows.


“Are you okay with talking about things right now, or do you need some more rest?” Ambrose finally asks.


“We can talk, but I’m making coffee first,” I say in an attempt to lighten the tense atmosphere.


The stiffness in his shoulders loosens almost imperceptibly as he chuckles and says, “Deal.”


We make our way to the kitchen, and I go through the familiar routine of scooping coffee grounds into the filter and filling the tank with water. I press the button to brew it, and the machine gurgles and steams as coffee drips into the pot below. It’s a steadying ritual, something to ground me in the present as I try to wrap my mind around the magnitude of my new existence.


Immortal.


Once the coffee maker beeps to signal the end of its brewing, I pour myself and Ambrose steaming mugs of the dark, rich liquid, and we sit across from each other at the small kitchen table. It feels like more neutral ground than the living room or study, a place where we can speak freely without so many memories and emotions clouding our perspectives.


It’s impossible to escape all the memories, though, because I think about the last time I sat here with him in the late hours of the night as they gave way to morning, how he held me tightly in the gray light of dawn and held me while we danced.


I take a deep breath and say one word. “Explain.”


He swallows hard and opens his mouth to speak before closing it again and considering his words. Eventually he says, “As you know, I watched you for quite a long time. You piqued my interest and my curiosity, and I wanted—needed—to know more. I vacillated between convincing myself not to interfere with your life and desperately wanting to steal you away and make you mine.”


He taps his fingers nervously against the wooden table before continuing. “But I saw how miserable you were, how close you were coming to your breaking point. I took too long to decide what to do with you, and when you attempted suicide, I had to act quickly. I wasn’t sure if you’d come with me willingly, and even if you did, I feared you would run when you realized what I am. So I tricked you into coming to me.”


“And the whole ‘bargain’ thing? I killed people, Ambrose. That’s not something you can just wave off.”


He winces. “I probably could have handled that a little better as well, but I did have mostly good intentions. I didn’t care about adding to my lifespan, but it was clear you needed a purpose, something to strive for, and a way to take back your power. And correct me if I’m wrong, but I do believe that killing those men was therapeutic for you in a twisted sort of way.”


He’s right. Enacting vengeance on corrupt men who weaponized their authority and preyed on the vulnerable healed something in me that had been broken for a long time. It gave me agency and power after living a life of abuse and subservience. But still…


“Why didn’t you tell me later on, after we… got closer?” I ask, not wanting to put words to the connection that has grown between us.


“I was scared,” he admits. “I was afraid you’d leave as soon as you knew the truth and that I’d lose you forever. And I know that’s incredibly selfish of me. I have no other excuse, but I did plan on telling you the night you left.”


God, that feels like forever ago, even though it was only, what, two days ago? But I do remember him anxiously telling me he had wanted to talk to me about something, followed by my avoidance.


“And how do I know you’re telling the truth now?”


He pauses, running a hand through his hair before standing. “Follow me. I have something to show you”


I do as he asks, following him as he leads me into the study and pulls a small key out from underneath the corner of the rug. Then, he reaches up to the glass case filled with notebooks, unlocks it, and pulls one out.


“You can read this,” he says, handing it to me. “This is evidence of everything I’ve thought about over the past six months, and each entry is dated.”


My eyes widen. “You’re letting me read your journal?”


“Yes. If that’s what it takes for you to trust me again.”


“Okay,” I breathe, taking the book gingerly from his outstretched hand. “I suppose I owe you an explanation as well.”


He nods, and we sit in our usual spots before I explain to him how the angels—well, not angels, apparently—appeared to me in the woods and tried to convince me to help them. I tell him about the promises they made me, my wavering uncertainty of their intentions, and my encounter with them at the masquerade. I also explain how Samuel took the lead and how Elias was quiet and anxious for each of the interactions.


“I wasn’t sure what to believe,” I admit. “But I never gave them the information they wanted. My last meeting with them was the day before I left. I told them I wouldn’t help them, and they must have realized I’d only be a liability from that point, so they told me the truth about the bargain. I decided I would leave to test the truth, whether it would cause a problem for me to be separated from you, and when I found the necklace in my purse, I panicked and everything sort of clicked.”


He’s silent as he listens to my story, nodding occasionally. When I finally finish, he’s quiet for a moment before asking, “Are you still planning on leaving?” Hope and fear clash in his expression, and though he attempts to keep a neutral facade, my eyes zero in on the way his hands grip the armrests of the chair so tightly that his knuckles turn white.


“No,” I answer, and his tense posture relaxes as he lets out the breath he was holding. “I’m staying, but no more lies. And I have some stipulations.”


He beams, leaning over to take my hand in his. “Anything.”


“I want to travel, to go all the places I’ve dreamed of and do all the things I never had the opportunity to do. I want to experience all the joys of life outside of the constraints I’ve been confined to.” I may not know exactly what I want out of life yet, but I intend to find out.


Ambrose kisses me deeply, caressing my cheek as if to make sure I’m real. I kiss him back with every ounce of devotion I have to give, warmth blooming in my chest until it encompasses me entirely. When we finally pull away, I could swear my skin emits a soft glow in the dimness of the room.


“I will go to the ends of the Earth and back again if that’s what you desire,” he murmurs, brushing a lock of hair behind my ear.


“I’ll hold you to that,” I tease.


“Please do. After all, we have nothing but time.”



OceanofPDF.com

c3SZ





EPILOGUE


The midday sun beams down on me as I load the last of the boxes into the moving truck. After months of snow and frigid temperatures, I’m grateful for the onset of spring, though I’ll miss the days of lying by the fireplace, forced to stay inside with the snow piling around the house and insulating us from the outside world.


The months of near-isolation, when we only went out to gather groceries and only had company from Elias’ occasional visits, were filled with deep conversations, particularly about the future.


“Care to go for one more walk?” Ambrose appears behind me with a box in hand labeled “Books.” It’s one of the dozen boxes of books we’re bringing with. The others will remain here, waiting for our return, whether it be a few years or a few decades from now. Only time will tell.


“Of course,” I answer, slipping my hand into Ambrose’s as we walk down the familiar path through the woods, teeming with life as spring awakens the mountains once again.


The church comes into view, but we don’t head for the entrance. I walk with Ambrose around the back to the small graveyard, where we approach the headstone that bears his last name. He sits on the dewy grass, and I follow suit.


“I’m leaving,” Ambrose says softly, speaking to the woman who’s buried beneath the stone. “And I don’t know if you’re out there listening, but I wanted to let you know. I’m not sure when I’ll be back, but I’m doing what you always asked of me—I’m living fully. And I’ve found love.” He squeezes my hand.


I return the gesture, then stand slowly. “I’ll let you have a few minutes,” I tell him. It’s a bittersweet moment, and while I know he doesn’t mind me being there, it only feels right to give him some time alone to say goodbye.


He nods, and I meander around the church before deciding to go inside one last time.


The bright sunshine streams through the stained glass windows, casting fractured, jewel-toned beams of light across the wooden pews. Nothing has changed within these walls, but they carry the ghosts of what transpired that night when I almost lost Ambrose, and he almost lost me.


But here, in the warm daylight, it doesn’t feel quite so ominous. It holds the memories, but they all seem like a distant past, something far behind us.


I wave my hand in a slow, intentional motion, focusing my energy on the candles still strewn about the room. One by one, they flicker to life, flames appearing from thin air. The pocket watch, now on a necklace chain, warms against my chest with the magic.


Now that I’ve gained Samuel’s powers—and life—Elias has been instructing me on the ways Samuel had used them, and I’ve been practicing whenever I have the chance. The abilities seem endless the more I practice them and consider other ways to wield them. Who knew that light could be manipulated in so many different ways?


“Having fun?” Ambrose asks, leaning against the open door frame.


I grin. “Just practicing. Are you ready?”


He nods, and I wave my hand again, forcing the flames to die as quickly as I brought them to life.


When we reach the clearing back at the cabin, Elias waves from where he sits on the porch. “I was wondering where you guys went!” he shouts.


“In a hurry?” I tease when we reach him.


“Just ready to hit the road. We have a long drive ahead of us.”


It’s true—our move will take us about 2,500 miles, to a home we’ve found in the Cascade Mountains. When we had traveled to the northwestern part of the country before winter fully descended here, I had immediately fallen in love with Washington state. The mountains hold a different sort of vastness there, towering into the sky and covered in verdant pine forests, while the Appalachians are an ancient, rolling sea of slopes.


I hadn’t wanted to ask Ambrose to move away from this house he loves so much, but he had suggested it when he saw how awe-stricken I was on our trip. He had reassured me that no matter what, the cabin would remain here and would always be his true home no matter how long we stayed elsewhere.


We step across the threshold of the house, checking the rooms one last time to make sure we haven’t forgotten anything. It’s a strange sight, seeing the cabin so bare. Even though some of the furniture remains, including most of the bookshelves and the books lining them, the half-emptiness is bittersweet, a reflection of the ephemeral stages of life. One chapter ending, and another just beginning.


Once we can stall no longer, we leave the house, and the sound of Ambrose’s key turning in the lock clicks with a melancholy finality.


But it’s not for forever, I remind myself.


Elias takes the keys to the Camaro while Ambrose and I climb into the high seats of the moving truck.


“How are you feeling?” Ambrose asks as we sit in the silence.


“Excited, hopeful, a little sad to be leaving,” I answer honestly. Leaving here is more than just a physical move. It’s a representation of the end of my old life and the start of my new one. A life where I will have the power to make choices for myself and become the woman I want to be. I’ll be reshaping my identity, metaphorically and literally. After killing Joel, I was listed as a suspect, but my disappearance made it impossible for the police to find me thus far, and I plan on making it even more difficult by changing my last name—my last tie to Joel. We haven’t figured out all the details of getting around the legal system, but Elias claims to have some connections that may be able to help us.


When Elias pulls the Camaro in front of us and gives us a thumbs up, we return the gesture, and Ambrose starts the truck. It rumbles to life beneath us, and as we pull out of the driveway, I glance back at the cabin disappearing into the trees. In a matter of months, it has become the home I never thought I’d have. Now, it will be a memory until we return again.


The road stretches before us, dipping into the horizon, and a strange sense of anticipation wells in my chest. For the first time in my life, the unknown doesn’t scare me, because it’s a path I’ve chosen. Like Ambrose had told me months ago—we have nothing but time.


I am safe, I am happy, and I am loved.


And that’s all I’ve ever really needed.




“Let everything happen to you, beauty and terror. Just keep going. No feeling is final.”

—Rainer Maria Rilke


The End


Thank you so much for reading! If you enjoyed this book, please leave a review or share on social media, which are the best ways to support indie authors like myself! If you’d like to be the first to hear about new book releases, join my twice-monthly email list (no spam, I promise!) — https://lylaandrewsauthor.eo.page/q5fgt



OceanofPDF.com

c4F



No portion of this book may be reproduced in any form without written permission from the publisher or author, except for brief quotations used for book reviews or promotions.


This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, and incidents are a product of the author’s imagination or used fictitiously.


Copyright © 2025 Lyla Andrews


All rights reserved.




Formatted with Vellum



OceanofPDF.com

c56




CONTENT WARNINGS

Hello, lovely reader! The following paragraphs contain trigger warnings with context for those who may need them. This means there will be slight spoilers ahead.


The FMC of this book struggles deeply with depression and suicidal ideation. She attempts suicide by cutting her wrists early in the book, and this scene is detailed. She is in a physically and emotionally abusive marriage at the start of the story.


Later, the FMC witnesses the death of a child in a hospital setting. She does not know or have any relation to this child.


Multiple men try to harm the FMC throughout the story, including an attempted drugging (that she notices before it is successful), and sexual assault (groping; no penetration).


Lastly, the FMC kills and tortures multiple people throughout the story in detail.


All spicy scenes between the FMC and MMC are fully consensual and non-violent.



OceanofPDF.com

c5T



For everyone who has felt powerless, afraid, and alone in a place that was supposed to be home.


And for those who are fighting to take back that power.



OceanofPDF.com

c62





PROLOGUE


The dreams are always the same.


I’m alone, but only for a moment. It’s not the sort of mundane loneliness I’ve become accustomed to that lingers like a dull ache in my chest. In my dreams, it’s a cold, numb emptiness that seeps everything from me until there’s nothing left.


Until him.


Before I see him, I feel him. His presence holds an unimaginable magnetism, in both my dreams and in wakefulness, that draws me to him like a moth to flame.


Dangerous, yet beautiful.


In the dark—always in the dark—I scour the shadows for him, blindly reaching. Sometimes I’m in a massive warehouse where my steps echo against the concrete floors and the hallways seem to stretch and warp the longer I run. Other times, I’m lost in the woods surrounded by a thick sea of trees that seem to whisper my name as I rush past them. No matter where I am, I’m searching frantically, driven by the gravity of his presence and his disembodied whispered words:


“Find me.”


I’m trying, I want to scream, but the only sounds that come from my mouth are heaving breaths when I begin to run, desperately seeking him.


My veins flood with adrenaline and trepidation, half of my mind helpless to resist the allure of the unknown while the other half rings with alarm bells. He’s dangerous.


It doesn’t help that whatever primal instinct cautioning me away from him is easy to push aside when reckless curiosity outweighs my will to live anyway.


After my desperate hunt leads me around sharp corners or down winding paths, he’s always waiting for me, veiled in shadows and barely visible, blending into the darkness like he belongs there.


All except the sharp, devilish grin that slowly spreads across his face. That part is always clear.


Blood pounds in my ears as my instincts tell me to run but my need for answers forces me to stay.


“You found me,” he purrs.


I’m frozen. Terrified. Enthralled.


In real life, when I’m awake, he rarely appears for more than a few seconds. But in my dreams, I can stare at him for what feels like hours, even though his features stay shrouded in obscurity, blurred and out of focus.


It’s when I move closer to him in a desperate attempt to fully see his face, when I reach for him as if he’s some sort of lifeline, that I snap into consciousness with a racing heart and sheets beneath me damp from cold sweat.


But even though he fills me with equal parts terror and fascination, I always want more. I can never get enough of the man who’s been stalking me, even in my dreams.


Waking up is always the hardest part.


Because a part of me wishes I’d never woken up at all.



OceanofPDF.com

c73





CHAPTER 1


“Hope is the worst of all evils, for it prolongs the torment of man.”


— Friedrich Nietzsche


Ionly ever see him in my periphery, in shadows and in dreams. There one second and gone the next. He’s become my secret obsession, a man watching me from the shadows and always disappearing just before I can reach him.


I know I should be afraid of him, but for now, my morbid curiosity outweighs my fear.


There’s a reason he’s watching me.


I just can’t figure out what it is.


I told my husband once–on one of his good days–that I noticed a man following me. That he was standing right outside the house, watching me from the other side of the street. But Joel checked the doorbell camera playback, but the only movement was the blur of cars driving past and the wind shifting the trees. He had told me I was “going crazy” and "hallucinating shit,” and that was the end of that.


He wouldn’t even allow me to see a doctor, claiming it was a waste of my time and his money after my last attempt at medication—a year ago, before I started seeing this mystery man—didn’t help anything. The doctor had said my depression may be “situational,” which was probably her polite way of telling me to get away from my husband.


Joel, however, doesn’t bother dressing up his judgments in tact or civility; he simply tells me I’m crazy.


That’s fine. Let him think so. It’s certainly not the worst thing he’s called me.


I haven’t spoken to him anymore about the man watching me, but he feels too real to be a hallucination.


Whatever he is, he’s an enigma. An obsession.


Despite my precarious mental state, I know I’m not imagining him. I can’t be.


Even now, I search for him in the corner of my vision, hoping his presence will give me a flicker of excitement in the banality of my day, if only for a moment.


He’s been appearing more frequently lately, and I wonder if it means something.


The wheels of my cart shriek out a grating rhythm as they spin against the dirty white tiles of the grocery store floor, and the stark fluorescent lights only cause the tension in my head to wind tighter as they buzz in the background like the incessant drone of a mosquito.


I scrutinize my shopping list for what feels like the hundredth time, knowing that if I forget anything, Joel will make my life a living hell for the rest of the night. It’s one thing to forget something for our own dinners; it’s another to forget something when we’re feeding half a dozen other people.


The bag of potatoes I toss into the cart lands with a dull thud. I scratch them off my list before heading to the refrigerated section at the back of the store. Steaks are next on my list, and the price below the slabs of meat makes me cringe. Pretty soon, my allotted amount of cash for grocery trips won’t be enough. At least it’s not my money that I’m spending, but I’m sure Joel will still have something to say about it when I get home despite the fact that he insists on grilling steaks instead of burgers.


God forbid he tarnish his reputation by not impressing his coworkers with his fancy meals, pristine cookie-cutter house, and subservient wife. It’s domestic bliss for him, and suburban hell for me.


I fight the urge to roll my eyes as I pile up ribeyes in the cart and move on.


Spices are next on the list. I grab a couple bottles and bow my head, pretending to compare the labels as I dart my eyes to my left then my right. Aside from me, the aisle is empty. Perfect.


I drop one of the bottles into my purse that’s hanging from the crook of my elbow as I reach up to put the other back on the shelf. It’s a smooth movement—one that I’ve practiced too many times—and I easily alternate between putting spice bottles in the cart and in my purse.


My heart races at the small act of rebellion. I always choose something different to steal, but the outcome is the same: more money for me to hide away, and the tiny, fleeting spark of feeling alive, if only for a moment. It’s the thrill of doing something wrong and getting away with it, even though I know that getting caught would mean more severe consequences for me than for most other people.


But it’s these small rebellions that give me any sort of hope, as momentary as it may be. My secret stash of money grows each time I pocket the cash I was supposed to spend on food, and maybe one day, I’ll have enough to leave.


That’s what I tell myself, anyway.


But as the days pass, the thread of hope I’m clinging to becomes more frayed, ready to snap. Increasingly more often, I wonder if it’s even worth the effort. Because even if I do manage to leave, he’ll find me. Just like he did last time.


I’d rather die than go through that again. Joel’s anger is more unforgiving than a few months locked in a jail cell would ever be.


The cashier gives me an odd look as I place the groceries on the conveyor belt, and for a moment, I worry she caught me pocketing the spices until I realize she’s glancing at my long sleeve shirt.


I give her a tight-lipped smile but say nothing, because what excuse could I give to justify wearing long sleeves in the sweltering summer heat? Most of my bruises have healed by now, but I can’t take any chances. Too many people know Joel and therefore recognize me, and an investigation, no matter how well-intentioned, would only result in a slap on the wrist for him.


And I’d still be here, stuck in a cycle of hopelessness and despair, wishing I could leave him but knowing it’s near impossible.


Sometimes the desperation of my utter powerlessness is too much to bear.


The sliding glass doors part before me as I exit the store, and the frigid air conditioning of the grocery store gives way to the thick, suffocating North Carolina heat, the asphalt of the parking lot shimmering under the beating sun.


That’s when I see him.


My breath catches in my throat at the vision of the tall, dark-haired man standing between a pristine SUV and a rusty old Toyota with a missing bumper. He’s obscured slightly by the heat mirage, the sun warping the air around him, but he’s recognizable all the same. Even without ever having fully seen his face, I’d recognize him anywhere.


We’ve never spoken, yet I feel like I’ve known him a lifetime. The man from my dreams. The man who’s been following me.


He’s here, my mind screams. He’s here for me. My body reacts in an instant, adrenaline rushing through me as I push the heavy cart as fast as I can toward the line of cars. Maybe this time I can catch him, speak to him, figure out what he wants from me.


I half-jog toward him, my sandals slapping the asphalt. I only glance away for half a second when my shoe catches on the cart’s wheel, but when I look back up, he’s gone.


I whip my head around, frantic to find him, but the rows of cars stretch over every available surface.


My heart sinks like an anchor in my chest, dragging me down until it feels like it would be easier to collapse onto the asphalt and let it swallow me whole rather than to continue on with my mundane routine.


Every day has been the same for the last couple years. The monotony of cooking and cleaning during the day punctuated by the anxiety of Joel’s return home from work, after which I tiptoe around his emotions by constantly trying to say and do the right things.


It’s been a steady downward spiral of anxiety, fear, and hopelessness—until he appeared. I don’t know where he came from or why he decided to start visiting me, but his presence is the only thing that gives me hope anymore. I dream of him constantly, wishing I could find a way to convince him to take me away from this life, even if I have no reason to believe he’s here to help me.


But there has to be an explanation to why he keeps appearing to me. It’s intentional; it has to be. There’s no reason he’d randomly pick me, a 30-year-old housewife who’s about as average as they come, unless it was personal.


I’ve considered the idea that Joel hired a hitman to get rid of me, but I quickly dismissed the thought. If he wanted me dead, he’d probably take pleasure in killing me himself.


By the time I’ve finished loading the groceries into the trunk, my hair is plastered to my neck and my clothes cling to my skin with sweat.


The car hums to life when I turn the key, and I blast the A/C on high as I drive home in silence, goosebumps erupting on my skin from the cold burst of air. I’m cruising down the highway when the voice in my head coaxes, You could just jerk the wheel. One quick, little movement, and all of this would be over.


It’s true, I think. I could. Why shouldn’t I?


Shit, I need to stop. I shake the thought out of my head, even though I know it’ll creep back in soon in one form or another, whether it’s encouraging me to slam my car into a tree or steal Joel’s pistol from his nightstand. You can make it quick, the voice always tells me.


Honestly, I wish I had a good argument against it, but I don’t. It’s hard to imagine myself lasting much longer like this if things don’t change soon.


Focus on something else.


The man in my dreams. The man I swear I just saw. I can focus on him—who or what he might be. That’s safe. Safer, anyway.


Is he a ghost? My guardian angel? The grim reaper? A normal man stalking me who simply knows how to slip away at just the right moment? Or maybe Joel’s right, and the mystery man is a figment of my imagination concocted by my slowly crumbling mind to give me some pathetic hope that I might be rescued from this depressing hell. It’s impossible to know, but my obsession only grows with each appearance.


It’s just past three when I get home, and sweat drips from my forehead, making my loose strands of hair cling to my damp skin as I carry in the last of the groceries. There’s no time to rest, though. Joel will be home in less than three hours, followed closely by his work buddies, and I’ll need to shower and start preparing the sides for dinner before then.


I’m finishing up the potato salad and shucking the ears of corn when Joel’s car door slams outside, the sound breaking the stillness of the house like a gunshot. My gut twists in the same way it does every evening at the sound of his arrival, but I school my expression to one of complacent nonchalance and say a silent prayer that he’s in a good mood.


The front door opens, Joel steps inside, and I hold my breath.



OceanofPDF.com

c9




LIMINAL
A DARK PARANORMAL ROMANCE



LYLA ANDREWS


OceanofPDF.com

c98





CHAPTER 2


I’ve learned to predict his mood by the weight and cadence of his footsteps. The slow, steady thud of his boots usually indicates he’s in control of his emotions—at least for the time being. When his steps are quick and sharp, deliberate as he finds me inside the house, I brace for the worst.


His footsteps are one of the few giveaways that allow me to prepare myself for his anger. Meanwhile, I’ll never have the freedom to stop walking on eggshells.


My stomach knots as he draws closer coming down the hallway, though his tread is measured, which gives me a small amount of relief.


I busy myself with setting out plates, silverware, and any sides that don’t need to be refrigerated, and it feels like hours before he steps into the doorway.


“Hi, how was work?” I ask in a lighthearted tone, not looking up from the silverware I’m fidgeting with.


“Ah, it was fine. Nothing too crazy happened today, but I’m sure as hell glad it’s Friday.” He makes his way to the fridge and grabs a beer, still clad in his full police officer uniform. He’d be handsome if I didn’t know the sort of malevolence that lurked underneath that facade of the all-American family man.


A placating smile stays plastered on my face. “Well, it’s good that nothing major happened at work. Better a boring day than a bad one.”


He grunts out his agreement as he plops onto the barstool at the kitchen island and begins to scroll through his phone. “Got any change for me from the grocery store?”


“Yeah, just a little. Prices keep going up.” It’s true, but he also doesn’t need to know about my small bouts of thievery so I can stash away some of the money. If he’d allow me to work, I could save up on my own, but I suppose that’s all a part of his plan to keep me trapped. “I left the change on top of the dresser for you,” I add.


He nods, but he’s barely paying attention, already caught up in the videos flicking across his screen. Fine by me. I’d prefer his lack of attention over his focused hostility any day.


An hour later, Joel has changed into more casual clothing and is prepping the meat for the grill when there’s a knock at the door.


I take a deep breath and brace myself for the night ahead as Joel strides to the front door while I wait awkwardly in the kitchen.


The beers are cold, the food is prepped, and the house is spotless for all these men who wear their uniforms like crowns.


It’s going to be a long night.


Joel’s friends arrive one-by-one, a couple of them with their wives or girlfriends. They follow him into the kitchen, where he wraps a possessive arm around my shoulders and says, “You remember Brielle?” to which the men give me a nod or a wave. Thankfully, the two women present seem rather attached to their partners, so I’m not forced to make small talk while I finish preparing everything in the kitchen.


This house is a stage, one where I’m putting on a show of being the perfect housewife for all these people who don’t care enough to look behind the curtain. They’d rather see the image of a sweet, wholesome woman playing hostess and serving the men in charge than acknowledge the way I hide my bruises behind clothing and my pain behind empty smiles.


They’ve all been trained to recognize the signs, but it’s easier for them to turn a blind eye.


The men head outside to stand around the grill drinking beer while Joel cooks the steaks. The younger guy’s fiancee is kind enough to ask me if I’d like any help, but I insist she join the crowd outside.


Once the steaks are cooked, the men file into the house like a pack of coyotes—boisterous, ravenous, and emanating a predatory energy, though that last part might just be in my head. I’ve been on edge since the first ring of the doorbell, anxiety constricting my chest like snaking vines.


I know these men and all their secrets. I know how so many of them are just like Joel—charismatic and powerful on the outside, vile and volatile on the inside. I hear my husband’s conversations even when he thinks I’m not listening, and it’s nauseating to know what some of these men do when they think no one’s looking.


There’s Brett, Joel’s best friend inside and outside of work, who got off on rape charges of a woman half his age three years ago because of his long-standing career in the department. He’s dated a lot but never kept a woman around for more than a few months at a time, and it’s no wonder why. He’s not bad looking, and so many women love a man in uniform, but his charming personality is an act that falls away as soon as he gets comfortable.


Then there’s Nick, who’s taller than the rest of them with broad shoulders and a thick beard, and who always seems to have a sunburn peeling at the back of his neck. As far as I know, he hasn’t done anything too terribly noteworthy, but he talks about other people as if they’re animals, and that’s enough to make me hate him.


The other guy is a newer hire, a man named Chance who can’t be older than twenty-three or so. He’s quiet and looks vaguely uncomfortable but seems to be attempting to fit in. His fiancee walks beside him with her arm permanently looped through his, and she wears a genuine smile. Maybe he’s one of the good ones, someone who joined the force in hopes of making the world a better place. I wonder how long he’ll last.


My movements are measured and unhurried as I line up the bowls and platters of sides along the kitchen counter. I’ve learned to make myself small to avoid notice—particularly from Joel and Brett—in any way possible.


People file past, filling up their plates before taking their seats at the dining room table. Chance’s fiancee thanks me for working so hard on the meal, and I flash her a genuine smile. In another life, she’s someone I could have been friends with, I think.


I breathe a sigh of relief after everyone has shuffled through the kitchen, then slowly fill up my own plate before forcing myself to join them in the dining room.


The conversation starts easy enough with banal small talk of sports and gossip about coworkers over the sounds of clinking silverware, but it quickly devolves into the disgusting bullshit I’ve come to expect. It’s all so terribly predictable, and I do my best to tune it out. From their tight-lipped smiles and darting eyes, the other women seem to feel the same as me.


My eyes flick toward the clock, watching the hands crawl forward. Only a couple more hours and I can escape to my dreams, where my shadow always waits. I cut into my steak, watching the pink juices leak across the plate and swirl into the rest of the food. Across the table from me, Nick’s lips smack together with his open-mouthed chewing as he shovels massive bites of steak into his mouth, and it grates on my nerves almost more than voice does. I stare down at my plate and stab individual peas onto the tongs of my fork to keep myself distracted from the cacophony of noise in such a small space. If it were people I liked here, it would feel intimate, but with this group, it’s claustrophobic, as if the walls are pressing us too close together.


The clatter of glass on wood jolts me back to the room. My husband’s voice cuts through my daydreams, sharp yet sweetened for company.


“Brielle, honey, you’re awfully quiet tonight.”


I summon a smile that doesn’t quite reach my eyes, though I know none of them care enough to notice.


“Just tired,” I murmur. “It’s been a long day.”


Joel holds my gaze a beat too long with unspoken warning flashing behind his eyes.


“A long day?” Brett chimes in. “You don’t even have a job, girl.”


More boisterous laughter.


Joel chuckles, “Hey, man, cut her some slack. Someone’s gotta cook dinner, bring me beer, and keep my house looking good.”


Fucking assholes. My fists clench in my lap.


I want to punch someone, or throw up, or scream at all of them to shut the fuck up. This is what I’ve been reduced to, an accessory that cooks and cleans and puts up with insults for fear of being hit by a man twice my size if I don’t.


I clench my teeth hard enough to make my jaw ache and fake a smile. “Speaking of, does anyone need another drink?” Anything to get me out of this room.


Brett raises his empty beer bottle, like I knew he would. So does Joel. Their empty bottles clink together in my hand as I make my way to the kitchen, where I toss them in the garbage before taking two fresh ones out of the fridge.


God, I really don’t want to go back in there. I pour myself another glass of wine and take a couple long sips, inhaling and exhaling deeply in attempts to calm the anger and resentment welling up inside of me.


Seriously, who the hell do they think they are?


A scene flashes in my mind of me storming back into the dining room, swiping everything off the table, and telling them to all get the fuck out of my house.


But I can’t do that, because Joel would kill me—possibly literally.


Sighing, I open the junk drawer in the kitchen to search for the spare bottle opener since I’m pretty sure Joel left the other one outside. I dig beneath lighters, receipts, and pens until I find what I’m looking for, and I snag it just as my eyes catch on the small, white bottle beside it.


I don’t know why the idea comes to me, but once it’s in my mind, it sticks. A year or two ago, I had read an article about someone poisoning their spouse with eye drops in their drink. It had surprised me at the time that something so small and seemingly harmless could have such severe ramifications. I had fantasized about doing it to Joel then, too, and now, the tiny bottle in my palm tempts me more than it should.


I can’t kill anyone, I tell myself, not allowing myself to consider whether or not I want to. My consequences would be too dire. But a couple drops would probably be enough to cause a little illness. And frankly, they deserve much worse than that.


The thought becomes an outlet for my anger, giving me the smallest semblance of control in a house where I’m utterly powerless.


I uncap the beer bottles first, then the small white one, and glance toward the doorway, before squeezing a few thick drops into one of the beer bottles. Not enough to kill anyone—probably, hopefully—but potentially enough to make them feel like shit. I consider spiking both drinks, but if Joel gets sick, that will only impart more of a burden on me. I’d have to take care of his whiny ass even more than I already do.


You could drink it all yourself, I think. I shake the thought from my head and bring the beers to the table.


The small sense of justice is enough to get me through the rest of dinner as I watch Brett sip the spiked drink. Realistically, it might not be enough to even affect him, but it brings the same spiteful satisfaction as if I had spit in his food.


The conversation drifts back to department politics, promotions and transfers, who’s screwing who, blah blah blah. I listen, but I’m not really here.


I’m watching the clock again, longing to disappear into my dreams, where I feel more desire for a man I’ve never met than the one sitting beside me.


Maybe I am losing grip on my sanity, but I guess it doesn’t really matter. I’d rather be happy in my delusions than permanently stuck in such a dull, depressing reality.


The night stretches on, and time seems to slow with each heavy tick of the minute hand.


The men’s voices only grow louder and sloppier as the alcohol strips away any last pretense of decency. They’re one-upping each other with work stories, some I’ve heard before and others new.


Nick launches into a story about a young girl—sixteen, maybe seventeen, he says—caught stealing nutrition bars from a convenience store.


“She was a pretty little thing,” he slurs slightly. “Looked so scared and helpless, almost reminded me of deer huntin’ season.”


They all chuckle, but my stomach turns.


“I almost let her off the hook, too, but then she got mouthy.”


Brett chuckles low, like he knows exactly where this is headed.


“So I put her in the back of the cruiser,” Nick continues, “and by the time we hit the station, she was sweet as a peach. Didn’t even end up charging her. Taught her a little lesson about respect instead.”


The group laughs, but I can’t hear it anymore. My pulse is a dull, heavy drum in my ears. I don’t look at him. I don’t let them see the part of me that still remembers being sixteen, scared of the world around me but desperate to get away by any means possible.


I don’t even want to imagine what he said to her in the confines of that car.


I keep my face smooth and my expression distant. Only thirty more minutes, and I can make the excuse to get up and clean. I just have to pretend for a little while longer before I can hurriedly do the dishes then escape upstairs to bed.


Brett injects himself into the conversation next, his voice louder than it should be. I flinch, but no one notices. “You know what the real problem is?” he slurs, slapping the table for emphasis. “No respect for the badge anymore. These punks don’t fear us like they used to.”


My husband lifts his glass, nodding. “The world’s gone soft.”


I stare at the blood-red wine in my glass as I swirl it and force myself to take a deep breath in and a slow breath out. The world hasn’t gone soft. It’s gone blind with cruelty.


The other ladies at the table are just as silent as I am. Whether it’s because they fear for their safety like I do, I’m not sure.


Eventually, conversation slows and people announce their departures one-by-one. I take the first one as my cue to clean up, grateful to be away from the obnoxious bravado and hateful commentary. The sooner the dishes are done, the sooner I can fade away into the only place I find happiness—my dreams.


I’m staring out the small window above the kitchen sink as I do the dishes, somewhere between zoning out and dissociating, when movement catches my eye. A flash of something in the darkness. My eyes narrow as I search the shadows, and…


He’s there, leaning against the lamppost under the dull, flickering yellow light, staring right at me.


My breath catches in my throat.


Please, take me away from here, I want to scream out the window. The urge to run out the front door and across the street, take his hand, and leave overwhelms every inch of my being, like my body is straining toward him even as I stand still.


But I know as soon as I look away, he’ll be gone. He always is.


So instead, I watch him. We stare at each other, no movement and no expressions beside the stray tears spilling down my cheeks. Why is he doing this to me? Is it a game? A test?


Maybe it is.


As soon as I reach up to rub the tears from my eyes, I realize my mistake. My heart fractures when I open my eyes and the space under the streetlight is empty.


Gone again. But where?


His appearances are becoming more and more frequent, which must mean something.


“Almost done?” Joel’s voice startles me from my brooding.


“Yeah, just a couple more to finish up.”


“Alright. I’m going to bed then.”


“Okay, goodnight.” I breathe a silent sigh of relief that he doesn’t pressure me for sex tonight.


He leaves the room without responding, but it doesn’t bother me. My mind is on something—someone—else.


I finish the dishes, my skin turning pink as I let the hot water scald my hands. It burns, but at least it allows me to feel something.


An hour later, I slip into the cool sheets of my bed. Joel’s snores fill the dark room, but I close my eyes and tune them out.


The exhaustion from being on-edge all day drags me into sleep within minutes, and I search for him. The man whose name I don’t know, whose face I can’t quite see, but who calls to me all the same.


“Find me.”


Every night, the same man obscured in shadows, speaking the same words. I know how it ends, but I chase after him anyway.


When he comes into view, fear and hope overtake me in equal measure. Shadows warp around him, but he stands there like he always does.


He grins, and I stop in my tracks, frozen with something between fear and reverence.


I try to speak, but the words catch in my throat, and when I reach for him, my hands fall through air.


Too soon, I’m awake, with the shape of his silhouette still burning behind my eyes.


Each night, he grows clearer. Each day, the real world grows duller. I’d much rather stay in my dreams permanently at this point. I’m already halfway there, sleeping hours longer than I should only for more time with him.


Maybe I am going crazy.


Joel’s snores prevent me from falling back asleep, and I stare at the ceiling with my mind racing. I usually can sleep through the night without issue. It’s the one thing that gives me reprieve from the dullness of my life. I don’t want to be awake, because every time I see this man, it only makes me question my sanity more.


What if I am imagining him? It seems more and more likely that I might be. I don’t know if I’m losing my mind or if the world is finally pulling back the veil to show me something real. I only know that when I’m asleep, I can finally feel.


Something fundamental has shifted within me tonight, somewhere between the dread of another evening with my husband and the knowledge that I’ll never make it out of here alive. It’s the realization that there’s no hope for me here. That there’s nothing I can do to dig myself out of the dark pit that my life has become.


I had wondered if maybe this man—or whatever he is—was here to take me away, but it’s been months now, and I’m no closer to figuring out who he is or what he wants from me.


If he even truly exists.


After all, a lot of people who hallucinate think that what they’re seeing is real. Why would I be any different? What motive would anyone have to follow me, a depressed, 30-year-old housewife?


Maybe he really is an illusion of my mind, one strange way for my psyche to hold onto hope. A coping mechanism.


If he’s not real, then the only place I’ll ever find him is in my head, and if he is real, then he’s running out of time to make a move.


Either way, the decision forming in my mind gives me more peace than anything else has in a long time. There’s only one way I can think to handle this pain and desperation once and for all.


I know what I have to do.



OceanofPDF.com

cCW





CHAPTER 3


AMBROSE

August


I’ve been watching her for weeks now. She hadn’t been my original target, but to her misfortune, she caught my attention nonetheless. The man I had been planning on killing is long forgotten.


She’s my only focus now.


My fascination with her started with something so small: petty theft. Shoplifting. That in itself is nothing revolutionary, but when I had witnessed her slipping a bottle of vanilla extract, of all things, into her purse, I couldn’t help but wonder why. There were much more expensive things she could have chosen.


Intrigue, not logic, guided my actions as I followed her out of the store and watched her from a distance as she loaded up her groceries into a car that gave further proof she wasn’t shoplifting due to lack of money.


I’m not ashamed to say that I followed her home. My interest was piqued. But my hour of watching her turned to days, and slowly, she became my obsession.


She didn’t notice—at least, not at first. I watched her for days as she followed a mind-numbing routine and catered to a petulant, egotistical man, only breaking down when she thought she was alone.


I cannot pretend I am not captivated by her contradictions. She changes when she’s alone, and it’s those moments when she thinks no one is watching that fascinate me the most. Every time she goes to the grocery store, she slips a cheap item in her purse, and for the life of me, I cannot figure out why. I’ve seen her stare off into space for minutes at a time before returning to the present moment. I’ve watched her stay calm through the most infuriating of situations only to break down in tears because she knocked over a drink that spilled onto the floor. I’ve listened to her sing along to the oldies rock station when she thinks she’s home alone. I’ve also noticed her starting at the knives in the kitchen just a little too long and a little too often.


She’s beautiful but broken, and she wears the despair like a chain around her neck. It shows in the way she carries herself, hunched and crossing her arms whenever possible, like she’s trying to make herself as small as possible. Purple hollows are permanent fixtures beneath her eyes, dark against her pale skin, and her waist-length brown hair is usually secured in a messy bun.


I don’t think she’ll make it much longer. I’ve been around long enough to see the signs, and it seems as though she’s hitting a breaking point.


I could be selfish and use her death to my advantage… It certainly wouldn’t be the first time I’ve done something of the sort. But something tells me to wait.


My presence has only served to unsettle her and throw her more off-balance from the precarious mental state she was already in. After watching her for a week or so, I allowed her to see me, but only in glimpses. But instead of being afraid, she’s curious. Desperate. Somehow, she’s deluded herself into believing I’m here to help. She wants me to be her guiding light, but the only thing I can do is drag her into a different sort of darkness.


She senses I’m dangerous, but then again, she’s no stranger to fear. Like a moth to a flame, she insists on coming closer, attempting to figure out the identity of the shadow who’s been haunting her. It’s a fatal attraction, yet she seems to be unaware of the dire consequences.


Once she realizes what I am, it will be too late for her to run.



OceanofPDF.com

cDU





CHAPTER 4


There’s a quiet sort of grief that comes with knowing you’ll never live the life you had planned for yourself. My childhood had been filled with dreams of going somewhere far away, of making my way in this world by helping others in some capacity, though I could never decide what I wanted to be when I grew up.


All I knew was that I never wanted to be like my parents, wasting away in soul-crushing day jobs only to come home and drown their stress in vices, neglectful of anything aside from the bare necessities for both themselves and me, and resentful of the lives they’ve built while doing nothing to change their circumstances.


Joke’s on me, I guess, but at least I’ve decided to take my circumstances into my own hands, for better or for worse.


Despite the severity of the decision I’ve made, my body feels lighter, as if the crushing weight of the future has been lifted from my chest. It’s ironic, really, that the only thing cheering me up is one of the most drastic, permanent decisions I could ever make.


The weekend drags on as it always does, the crawling hands of the clock seeming even slower than usual, until it’s almost over. It’s Sunday night, which means tomorrow, I’ll be free.


I feel like I should do something special tonight. I should go out, have a few drinks, toast to the shitty life I’ve lived before it irreversibly changes tomorrow. But I can’t do any of that, lest it ruin the temporary moments of peace I’ve found. And it would, because Joel would never approve of me going out on my own, and I can’t let his anger ruin my plan. Not this time.


After I finish cleaning up dinner, I join Joel in the living room like I’m obligated to on nights like this. For someone that seems to resent me so much, he still insists on spending “quality time” together. However, his idea of quality time is sitting across the living room from each other with something on the TV that he’s chosen. No input from me, no conversation, nothing. It’s like he’s still trying to convince himself that we’re a normal couple who relaxes in the evening together. Hell, maybe he’s deluded himself into thinking that is the case.


Tonight, as I recline on the far end of the couch, I take in my living room with fresh eyes. Our framed wedding pictures watch me from every wall, reflecting our grins frozen in time. Back then, ten years ago, I had been sure that I was leaving behind my life of neglect and had found someone who would support my dreams as much as I supported his. I had grand plans of going to college once I saved up some money, getting a degree in something—nursing, teaching, psychology, I wasn’t sure, but I knew I’d figure it out eventually—and spending years living a modest life full of love and laughter.


It didn’t feel like too much to ask at the time, but now it’s an insurmountable aspiration, one that I’m certain I’ll never achieve in this lifetime.


The worst part is that Joel isn’t always terrible. There are days when we go on dates, laugh together, and act like any normal couple would. In those moments, it feels like everything might be okay. It only makes the bad days hurt more. But I’ve long since stopped believing in his potential more than his patterns.


When we got married, he was perfect. He had whisked me away and promised to take care of me and love me despite all my flaws. The controlling side of him only came out after I’d left everything behind to be with him, and his temper became unpredictable.


There were no warning signs at the beginning. It was a slow spiral into isolation and control under the guise of caring for me and giving me a comfortable life. He had promised to save the money for me to start at the local community college, had insisted I stay home and relax instead of working since he could pay the bills on his own. By the time I had realized what was happening, it was too late. His job as a police officer only made it worse; It’d be much harder to run away when he had access to any resource to find me.


I tried it once before. It didn’t end well.


The TV flashes with news snippets, but I attempt to tune it out. Joel prefers the sensationalized “news” channels, where every fact is coated in multiple layers of opinions, most of them attempting to pit people against each other. It’s vile, but Joel refuses to consider the validity of the stories because they give him something to be angry about, someone to blame for the state of the world. He values the justification of his outrage more than fact or logic.


I’ve learned to tune it all out for my own sanity. Even the factual news stories tend to drive me deeper into an already suffocating despair. Death, devastation, violence, money. People feed on the negativity, letting it fester and grow until it’s spread like a disease.


I used to have hope that the world would become a better place. But right now, it’s hard now to have hope for the world when I can’t even muster up enough hope for myself.


“I’m going to the bathroom,” I announce when I can’t take any more of the divisive bullshit being spewed onscreen.


Joel grunts in acknowledgement, and I make my way through our bedroom. Just before I make it to the master bathroom door, something snags my attention from the window. A small flicker of movement, but it’s enough to make my heart race.


I flick off the bedroom light to allow myself to see out into the dark and make my way toward the window. Is it him?


Bringing my forehead to the cold glass, I peer out into the impenetrable darkness of the night, searching for any sign of movement.


Shadows flicker, and I hold my breath, but disappointment wells inside me when I realize it’s just the headlights of an old truck rumbling down the street.


I stare for minutes, though it feels like hours, searching the darkness for any sign he might be out there, but am jolted out of my trance when the bedroom lights snap on.


“What are you looking at?”


I gasp, my heart racing, and step back from the window.


“Nothing.”


Joel’s eyes narrow as he stalks over to the window and peers out, searching for whatever has caught my attention. Of course, he finds nothing.


“I thought I heard an owl outside. I was trying to find it, but I can’t see one,” I offer in explanation.


Joel raises an eyebrow but simply shakes his head and walks back out of the room.


I use the restroom, wash my hands, and take one more peek out the window. Of course, he’s not there, but maybe I’ll at least see him in my dreams tonight. It would be nice to have a final encounter for closure.


Before joining Joel back on the couch, I grab an empty notebook and pen before taking the side of the couch opposite Joel. I should write some sort of note, right? But to who? Joel isn’t going to care if I leave one. And he’ll be pissed if I end up writing what I really think. I can see it now: “Dear Joel, I hope you become a better person who doesn’t abuse women to the point that they feel their only option is suicide. Thanks for nothing, and I’ll see you in Hell.”


Yeah, maybe not.


But someone will care, right?


I think about my parents next, the way they’d sit and smoke cigarettes on the rotting wooden front porch every evening, the gray smoke curling into the beams above as they told me to go keep myself occupied. They didn’t even want me around as a child, which they frequently reminded me of by making thinly-veiled jokes about me being an “accident.” I spent summers making self-proclaimed witch’s potions in the back yard out of dirt, leaves, and whatever else I could find, and spent winters at the small library down the street.


So far, I’ve spent thirty years being unwanted and having nothing to show for the time. No accomplishments, no job, no friends. Nothing.


“What are you doing?” Joel’s voice startles me from my contemplation.


“Nothing. I was going to write down some books I wanted to get at the library tomorrow, but I forgot the titles.”


I close the notebook without writing anything. A note won’t matter anyway.


Joel gives a sound of acknowledgment, though his attention is still trained on the TV.


“Actually,” I say, “I think I’m gonna go to bed. I have a bit of a headache.”


“Alright. I’ll be there as soon as the news is over.”


Sighing, I stand and get ready for bed. This is the last time I’ll ever do this, I think with a tinge of bittersweetness. It’ll all be over.


When I lie down in the darkness, my thoughts drift back to him, still wondering what he wants from me but knowing I may never find out. If he is real, whether that be as a human or a ghost—which still sounds batshit crazy, even to me—I’m still no closer to knowing what he wants from me, and I refuse to wait any longer. If he wants me dead, I’ll simply be doing his job for him. And if he’s only a figment of my broken mind, then I have nothing to worry about.


Tomorrow is the day.


I probably shouldn’t be giving up, but the idea of being free from this is the only glimmer of peace I’ve felt in a long time. Maybe it’s selfish for me to leave this world without trying to make it a better place, but I’ve spent my entire life putting myself last. At least this time, I’ll be doing something for me.


And if death is my path to freedom, so be it.



OceanofPDF.com

cFH





CHAPTER 5


“The path to paradise begins in hell.”


—Dante Alighieri


The logical side of me tells me I should be afraid, hesitant, even guilty, but the finality of my decision fills me with the sort of peace I haven’t experienced in years.


Soon, this reality will cease to exist for me. My husband will never be able to lay his hands on me again, and I will never have to suffer under the control of someone else.


If I’m being realistic, I’ve had one foot in the grave since I married Joel. Between his abuse and my sinking deeper into depression with every passing week, dying will be a relief, a reprieve from this inescapable cycle.


No more waiting hand and foot on a man who believes that my obedience is love. No more walking on eggshells with a perpetually wired nervous system. No more wasting away between these grey and beige walls where every day is the same.


I may never find out whether my mystery man is real or not, but at least the curiosity will stop plaguing me soon.


It’s Monday morning, and I’m humming as I pour a cup of coffee and sit down at the table across from Joel.


“You’re awfully cheery today,” Joel says, looking up from his phone with a raised eyebrow.


I shrug. “I just needed a good night of sleep, I think. My headache finally went away.” It’s a lie, and suspicion is written all over his face, but he couldn’t possibly guess at the real cause of my sudden shift in mood, so he accepts the obvious lie.


I’m never in this good of a mood.


The irony is not lost upon me.


“If you say so,” Joel says after studying my expression with skepticism. “What’s for dinner tonight?”


“I haven’t decided yet.” Technically, it’s not a lie.


He stands from the table and tops off his travel mug with coffee before saying, “Well, make sure that chicken in the fridge gets used up before it goes bad.” And with that, he’s out the door.


I snort a bitter laugh in the silence that follows, wondering if he’ll remember that the last words he ever said to his wife were about raw chicken.


It only takes a moment for the silence to swallow me whole.


Do I do it now? Do I wait a couple hours and enjoy what’s left of my day—of my life?


I didn’t think about this part.


Now, I decide. I need to do it now.


It’s not like there are any final preparations I need to make, and I wouldn’t be able to focus on enjoying anything in my final few hours.


It’s time.


No more waiting. No more being the pliant, acquiescent woman. For the first time in my life, I'm going to do something for myself. Ironic that the one thing I'll finally be doing for myself is ending my own life.


I walk to the bathroom, trailing my fingers along the wall and memorizing the textures I’ll never feel again.


The carpet is plush beneath my bare feet as I cross our bedroom to make my way into the master bathroom.


I don’t bother to close the door as I cross over the threshold onto the tile of the bathroom.


The entire room gleams under the harsh light in shades of stark white and slate gray, the faint scent of bleach still lingering from when I cleaned the tub a few days ago.


When I catch my reflection in the mirror, I pause. My skin is pale, my long hair a tangled mess, and the dark circles beneath my eyes so purple they resemble bruises.


It’ll all be over soon, I tell myself. My last look at my reflection should probably feel more significant, but all I feel is that same numbness overshadowed by the relief that this is the end.


The hinges of the medicine cabinet squeak as I open it, and my eyes zero in on the razorblades on the top shelf.


Despite my certainty in what I’m about to do, my pulse still surges as I set the box on the counter and pull out the thin metal blade. It feels lighter than it should.


I sink onto my knees beside the bathtub, turn the handle all the way to the left, and watch the hot water fill the tub, steam rising from the surface and warming my face. The warmth seeps into my skin, and I close my eyes. For a brief moment, the voice in my mind whispers, you don’t have to do this.


Yes, I do.


When I turn the water off, the silence is deafening, broken only by the slowing drip-drip-drip from the faucet like a ticking clock. I only filled the tub a few inches deep, but it’s enough.


With the blade pinched between my fingers, I dip my shaking hands beneath the scalding water. I’m not sure why. Maybe I just want to feel one last thing before I die.


My wrists look so delicate beneath the water's surface, pale blue veins visible through delicate, translucent skin. When I pull them out, my skin is pink, and droplets glide along the edge of the razor blade before dripping back into the water.


Well, here goes nothing.


I pinch the blade tightly, take a deep breath, and slice it down my forearm.


The cut stings less than I expected—at least at first. A thin red line appears, barely visible at first, then blooming into something more severe. The water before me turns pink, then deepens in color with every drop of blood as I make the second cut deeper, more determined this time. Then a third before switching which hand I hold the razor in and repeating the process on the other side.


The sharp, stinging pain shoots up my arm, and I suck in a sharp breath before biting down hard on my lip.


Fuck, that hurts.


Tears slip down my cheeks as the reality of the situation sets in, but I don’t bother wiping them away. It doesn’t matter anymore. Nothing matters anymore.


The blade slips from my fingers and falls into the murky water, and I watch, strangely detached, as my blood disperses through the bathwater like ink through paper.


My thoughts drift to Joel, and I catch myself thinking, He's going to be pissed if my blood stains the tub.


A laugh bubbles up in my chest. How completely fucked up that even now, bleeding out in our bathtub, I'm worried about inconveniencing him. As if my death is just another failure to uphold my wifely duties.


My heart pounds, and I shut my eyes. Everything feels too bright, too cold, too much.


I lean against the wall, keeping my arms hanging over the tub while blood drips from my fingertips, and am overcome by a sudden sense of shame.


What have I done?


I stare out the bathroom door into the bedroom, my consciousness slipping and thoughts blurring at the edges.


In the moments where I wait for my mind to slip away, sudden sobs wrack my body. How did I get here? There are so many things I could have done differently in life, so many choices I could have made that would’ve led me down a better path. Why didn’t I follow any of my dreams? Why didn’t I leave Joel when the first red flag popped up? How did I manage to become so trapped that death was my only option?


My life could have been so beautiful, if only I’d done things differently.


Movement flashes at the edge of my vision.


Then, he’s there, appearing as suddenly as he always does.


He stands in the corner of my bedroom, enveloped by the shadows, staring hard. For the first time, I see him clearly. Tall and dark-haired, dressed in all black, with sharp features and dark eyes that burn with intensity.


Maybe he is the grim reaper, after all.


“God, I've really lost my mind,” I whisper, the words heavy on my tongue.


He stands motionless, and I close my eyes and wait for him to come to me, to carry me away from this life to wherever I’m destined to go next.


The sound of the front door slamming cuts through my fading consciousness like a thunderclap. Heavy, familiar footsteps echo down the hallway.


“Hey, I forgot my⁠—”


Joel's sentence cuts off when he reaches the doorway and finds me bleeding out on the bathroom floor. His shouting shatters whatever resigned peace I'd found, dragging me back toward a reality I was escaping.


“What the fuck have you done?! Brielle?!”


He’s not gentle as he wraps towels around my forearms and applies pressure. Red rivulets stream down my arms, dripping from my fingertips onto the tile floor. Somewhere in the back of my mind, I wonder offhandedly how difficult it’ll be to get blood out of the grout, which would make me laugh if my energy wasn’t fading by the second.


Joel is shouting into his phone, but I pay no attention to the words he says, though my heart lurches with fear at the sheer volume and brusqueness of his voice.


I try to look past him, searching for the man I’d seen in the corner of my bedroom only moments ago, but the edges of my vision are contracting, darkness creeping in like a vignette.


Joel's voice grows distant in my ears, as if I’m underwater. His mouth moves, forming words I can hear no longer make sense of. The last thing I see before consciousness slips away is not my husband's face, but a glimpse of the figure standing just behind him, watching with eyes that are heavy with concern—or maybe regret. If he was meant to take me away, Joel probably just ruined his plan.


Our eyes stay locked on each other for seconds that feel like hours, and he stares at me as if he’s trying to solve a puzzle. He turns away, seeming to disappear in a fraction of a second.


He’s gone without a trace, and my vision goes dark.



OceanofPDF.com

cJ1





CHAPTER 6


“Life begins on the other side of despair.”


—Jean-Paul Sartre


The antiseptic smell reaches me before consciousness fully does. My eyelids are heavy, but I force them open to a blurred white ceiling. The steady beep of machines confirms what I already know: I've failed, even at this.


I couldn’t even kill myself without fucking it up.


The hospital room swims into focus.


Even as a tiny sense of relief blooms in my chest, the weight of reality comes crashing back down. I’m still here, but worse off than I was before.


I lift my hand to wipe the crust from my eyes, and an ache radiates from my hand and arm. Medical tape holds an IV in place at the top of my hand, the plastic tube snaking down the side of the bed and up to the bag of fluid hanging above me, and my forearms are bandaged in thick, white gauze.


A nurse notices I'm awake a few minutes later and approaches with a polite smile. “There you are. How are you feeling?”


The question is so absurd I almost laugh. How am I feeling? Betrayed by my own body's will to survive. Furious at whatever cosmic joke kept me tethered to this life. Terrified of what comes next.


“Fine,” I whisper.


She nods as if this makes perfect sense, checks my vitals, and tells me the doctor will be in shortly. As she leaves, I notice Joel sitting in the corner chair, his posture rigid, eyes fixed on me with an intensity that makes my skin crawl.


I jump. I hadn’t even noticed him there.


He stands when she's gone and approaches the bed. I hold my breath.


“Hey, baby,” he says. The gentleness in his voice startles me even more than his anger would until I realize how frequently his eyes dart toward the door then back to me. He knows someone might overhear. He takes my hand, brushing his thumb over the edge of the bandage. “You scared me.”


The tenderness in his touch makes my stomach churn. I know this performance. I’ve seen it countless times when we're in public, at parties, or around his family. The doting husband, so concerned for his fragile wife.


He’s still wearing his uniform, only adding to his credibility as a protector rather than someone to fear.


Thankfully, a doctor enters before I can respond, clipboard in hand, expression solemn. He speaks in a serious tone, though most of it is directed at Joel. I'm barely listening, though I catch the important words. Blood loss. Stable. Psychiatric evaluation. Joel's hand tightens around mine, but I know it’s a warning, not a comfort.


“She's been under a lot of stress lately,” Joel says, his voice cracking just enough to seem authentic. “We've been trying to start a family, and it's been… difficult.”


The lie comes out so smoothly that I almost believe it myself. I watch as he transforms from the man I know into a heartbroken husband devastated by his wife's suffering.


It makes me want to vomit.


“I understand the protocols here, what with my profession and all, but I think what she needs most is to be home with me where I can watch her 24/7. I've already arranged time off work.”


The doctor hesitates, glancing between us. “We’ll still need to perform a psychiatric evaluation, so as long as the team agrees that she doesn’t pose a threat to herself or others, she’ll be free to go.”


Joel's fingers dig into my palm as another warning not to fuck this up further while I debate telling the psychiatrist that I’d rather jump into oncoming traffic than go home again.


More conversations happen around me. Release forms are signed. Pamphlets about crisis hotlines are handed over. I answer some questions about my mental health with easy lies until they’re satisfied I’m not going to hurt myself again.


Later, while I’m waiting for the go-ahead to leave, Joel’s mask finally slips once his patience wears thin.


“What the hell were you thinking?” he hisses. “Do you have any idea how this makes me look? The whole department knows about this stunt you pulled.”


Of course that’s what he’s worried about. His reputation. In one morning, I’ve shattered the illusion he’s built of a perfect husband and a happy wife.


“I’m sorry,” I say, though my voice is flat. I can’t pretend to care.


“Seriously,” he continues, “if you wanted attention, there were plenty of other ways to do that without making everyone think you’re fucking insane.”


I stare at the ceiling, letting his words wash over me like waves crashing against stone. Nothing he says matters anymore. I was so close to being done with him forever. Now, I’m just numb.


A nurse returns with discharge papers and a peppy smile. Joel steps back, concern instantly masking his features.


“Ready to get you home and comfortable,” he says, loud enough for the nurse to hear.


She smiles approvingly as she helps me sit up. I don’t want to sit up. I don’t want to move. I don’t want to go home. Anything would be better than returning to that life.


Joel takes the plastic bag containing my blood-stained clothes and places it on the bed beside me while the nurse removes my IV.


After she leaves, I slowly change into the set of clean clothes Joel must have gone home to get for me—sweatpants and a t-shirt. I stand and shove my hands in my pockets, where my fingers brush against something.


Pulling it out, I see that it’s a small, folded piece of paper.


I glance at Joel, who's occupied with the discharge paperwork, and carefully unfold it. Written in sharp, elegant handwriting I don't recognize is an address, but nothing more. No name, no explanation.


But I know who it’s from all the same, even if I don’t understand how or why I’d know.


It’s him.


The man from my dreams. The stranger whose face I finally saw clearly as life drained from me. He's real, and he's given me an escape route of some sort.


His words from my dreams echo in my mind. “Find me.”


I fold the paper carefully and slip it back into my pocket before Joel can notice. For the first time since waking in this sterile room, there’s a spark of hope blooming within me. It’s small, but it’s there.


By the time we step out the front doors of the hospital, I’m already concocting a plan.





The next morning, Joel leaves for work after telling me not to do anything stupid. Even my suicide attempt isn't enough to justify more than a day's absence from the department, and I’m sure he lied to his coworkers and told them someone would be here to take care of me.


Before he goes, he confiscates my car keys and phone “just to be safe.” It’s a punishment, though, no matter how much he claims it’s for my wellbeing. Just another way to control me.


The moment his cruiser pulls out of the driveway, I'm in motion. I pull a suitcase and a backpack from the closet and stuff them with whatever I can grab that I might need—clothes, toiletries, leftover pills from my old Xanax prescription, the hidden cash from my grocery store thefts.


My hands shake as I pack, my bandages pulling tight against my still-raw wounds. Every few minutes, I glance out the window, half-expecting to see Joel's car returning. The fear still sits in the pit of my stomach, but now it propels me forward instead of paralyzing me.


I make sure the address is in my pocket then zip the suitcase closed. My eyes catch on my reflection in the dresser mirror. I look the same as I did a few days ago—messy, long brown hair and a tired expression—but there’s a glimmer of hope in my tired eyes. That’s new.


As I do one last survey of the house to make sure I’m not missing anything critical, I can focus on nothing but the thrill and exhilaration of knowing that he wasn’t all in my head. He was—is— real. Maybe he was biding his time and planning on rescuing me the entire time he’s been watching me.


Satisfied that I’ve packed everything I need to, I secure the straps of my backpack on my shoulders and drag my suitcase to the front door. I pause with one hand on the knob. Behind me lies everything I've known—the prison of my marriage, the certainty of continued pain. Ahead lies nothing but hope in the form of an address scrawled on paper and the face of a man I've only truly seen once.


This could be further proof of my insanity. It might be my mind fracturing under the weight of too much suffering. The address might lead nowhere. The man might not exist.


But it's the only option I have left aside from the one I just failed at executing.


I step outside into the August heat that feels like being dropped in a steamer, pulling the suitcase behind me.


If this is my last desperate gamble for freedom, so be it. If I'm chasing ghosts or hallucinations, at least I'm chasing something of my own choosing.


Find me, he had said in my dreams.


If only I could tell him, I’m coming.



OceanofPDF.com

cMF





CHAPTER 7


With no phone for navigation and no car to make a getaway, I walk the few blocks to the library with my suitcase in tow. People cast me sidelong glances, but I can’t bring myself to care. The freedom of movement feels surreal after so many hours confined to sterile hospital walls.


My steps quicken despite the weight of the suitcase as it rumbles behind me, its wheels catching on sidewalk cracks. Each block I put between myself and the house eases the pressure on my chest, though my gaze stays trained on the roads as I keep a look out for cop cars.


The public library comes into view, a solid brick building with wide windows. As soon as I step inside, I breathe a sigh of relief. The library has always been a sanctuary, and I hadn’t realized how much I needed it until this moment.


I find an empty computer station in the far corner, positioning myself with my back to the wall, eyes constantly darting to the entrance. Joel wouldn't think to look for me here, and he won’t know I’m missing for hours, but the fear has become an instinct. The irrational part of my mind never stops churning with unlikely scenarios—what if he saw me on the street and saw me walk in here? What if he thwarts my plans of escape?


No. I can’t even allow myself to consider the possibility. I will make my getaway.


My bandaged wrists make typing awkward, the gauze catching on the keyboard's edge. The librarian at the desk keeps casting glances my way, and I attempt to ignore the concern in her expression.


It would’ve been ideal for me to run away without encountering others, considering the fact that my bandaged arms make me stand out from the crowd everywhere I go, but it’s not like I have many options. I have no phone, no car, and very little money. Even if I did have my car, I wouldn’t be surprised if Joel had installed a secret tracker inside it.


I lay the small slip of paper out on the shiny wooden desk and copy the address into Google maps. It pinpoints a spot deep in the Appalachian mountains, a tiny dot on the map surrounded by nothing but green forest and winding roads. When I try to look at the house from the street view, all I can make out is a twisty gravel driveway past a metal gate. Otherwise, it’s forest in every direction.


Well, that makes this more difficult.


I open another tab and check the train routes, but there isn’t one that goes in the direction I need. Next, I check bus routes, and I manage to find one that gets me within twenty miles of where I need to go.


I’m not sure how I’ll get to the address once I’m at the bus stop, but I’m sure I could convince someone to call me an Uber or something. Even though I don’t have a phone, I do have cash.


After paying the librarian the ten cents for printing, I pull up the driving directions from the destination bus stop to the address I’ve been obsessing over and say a silent prayer to whatever deity that will listen that this works out.


I print the directions, my fingers trembling as I pick up the still-warm paper and thank the librarian for her help before scrawling down the bus departure and arrival time. I have quite a few hours to go before the bus leaves.


The small map at the top of the paper shows a ribbon of highway cutting through the mountains, then smaller roads branching off like veins, growing thinner and more twisted as they climb. Beneath that are the directions to the house. At least, I’m assuming it’s a house.


Seriously, what am I doing? Following an address left by someone who’s been stalking me is undoubtedly the dumbest thing I could ever do. My rational mind screams how dangerous this is, but something pulls me forward, something beyond logic or reason. Maybe it’s curiosity, or maybe it’s desperation to live any life but the one I have now.


I’m fully aware that I’m not only being stupid but reckless, but it’s much easier to make rash decisions when I don’t value my life to begin with.


I decide to browse the bookshelves for a while, preferring to stay in the air conditioning as long as possible before making my way the mile and a half across town to the bus station. I’m not looking for anything in particular, so I pull books out at random, reading the back and sometimes flipping through the pages before putting them back on the shelf.


It’s an hour later when I find one that draws me in from the first page, and I glance at the clock before deciding I probably have time to finish half the book before I really need to leave.


So, that’s what I do. I settle into a chair in the corner of the room with the book in my lap and my bags at my side, and I read. I get lost in the story of magic and destiny and fated love, until I glance up and see that two hours have passed. Still, I don’t need to be on the bus for another couple hours, so I continue reading until I’m just past the halfway point.


Wanting to know the ending of the story but not wanting to go through the process of checking it out—because that would require providing my library card, which could lead Joel to me—I discreetly slip the book into my backpack before standing.


It feels wrong to steal from a library, but I do it despite the guilt gnawing at my stomach. Maybe I’ll mail the book back when I finish it.


With that justification in my mind, I double check that my paper with directions is in the same place I had put it in my backpack. Then, I head back out into the sticky, suffocating August heat and walk to the bus station.


The outside of the bus station smells faintly of gasoline, and I walk past a couple smoking cigarettes before finding a seat in the small, air-conditioned building. Outside, a train rattles over the tracks as it speeds past, and the Charlotte skyline towers ahead.


I purchase a ticket for the four o’ clock bus with cash, sliding the bills through the slot to a bored attendant who barely looks up. Once I have the ticket in hand, I settle onto one of the hard metal benches and wait.


Soon, I’ll be headed northwest, away from the city and into the mountains somewhere deep in rural Appalachia.


As I wait for the bus to arrive, I pull out the book I’d taken from the library, but the echo of noise in this small building drowns out the words on the page. I can’t focus. So instead, I watch the other occupants. A mother rocks a fussing infant. An elderly man snores softly with his chin tucked to his chest. A teenager with headphones taps her foot to whatever music she’s listening to. All normal people with normal lives. I wonder if I'll ever be one of them.


When the bus finally pulls in, I hand my suitcase to the worker loading them and choose a window seat near the back. The engine rumbles beneath us, vibrations traveling up through the floor, and as we pull away from the station, I press my forehead against the cool glass and watch the city pass me.


After a while, the buildings grow sparse and traffic thins. The landscape transforms as we lumber down the highway, with low, rolling hills gradually coming into view. Kudzu crawls over the dense vegetation on the side of the highway, smothering the trees until they loom like phantoms. Every few miles, garish, dirty yellow billboards pronounce “Jesus Saves” and “REPENT” other vaguely ominous religious messages. I wonder offhandedly what their purpose is besides self-important proclamations of faith.


I manage to read another hundred pages of my book to distract myself from my growing anxiety before giving up again. I’d guess there’s only an hour left of this drive, and I have no clue what awaits me. In one hour, I’ll be getting off the bus in a town I’ve never been to meet a man I’ve never truly met, with no alternative plan and enough money to maybe cover a couple nights in a cheap motel if things go terribly wrong.


Fuck.


My forearms throb with a dull ache, as if reminding me of my alternative if everything goes to shit. I try not to think about it.


The sun is sinking lower in the sky as I stare out the window. We’re in the mountains now, but the highway cuts right through them. Even with the modern roadways and cities, though, the Appalachian mountains have a presence that’s impossible to ignore. They’re ancient, foreboding, and in the fading light of day, it seems as if anything could be hiding in the thickets of kudzu that climb across the trees and undergrowth.


We pull off the highway, and I know we’re getting close to our destination as the driver navigates the winding roads toward the town. The yellow signs—why are there so many yellow signs in the rural south?—for Waffle House and Dollar General shine like beacons for the nearest town in the fading daylight.


It’s close to 8 p.m. Joel will be looking for me by now, wondering where the hell I’ve run off to. I’m sure he’s in a fit of rage, probably punching holes in the drywall or breaking things. The thought makes my chest seize with fear until I realize, I never have to go back. I don’t know what my life will look like in the coming weeks, days, or even hours, but I do know that he’ll never lay a hand on me again.


I wonder if he’ll report me as missing, or if his ego will be too massive to admit that his wife ran from him.


Thirty minutes later, I’m exiting the bus behind a short line of people. My entire body thrums with anxiety, fear of the unknown coupled with exhilaration for the potential of what could happen.


He didn’t give me any information about when to come, but I bet he’s waiting for me all the same. He probably knew I’d come as soon as possible after witnessing the situation I was in. Or maybe this is simply an empty house, a refuge he knew I needed. I can’t deny that I’d be a little disappointed if he wasn’t there, though.


He has saved me from my circumstances when I wasn’t strong enough to leave on my own. The least I can do is thank him.


My hands shake as I take my suitcase, and my knees are on the verge of buckling with every step I take.


The bus pulls away in a cloud of exhaust, leaving me standing on a crumbling concrete slab as the cool evening air settles around my shoulders. The town's few buildings cluster nearby—a post office, a general store with its closed sign already displayed, a diner with windows still lit.


It’s eight o' clock, and I'm twenty miles from my destination with night closing in, in a place where I know no one. The enormity of what I've done hits me all at once. I’ve left behind my entire life with nothing but a suitcase and an address that might lead nowhere.


I take a deep breath of the thin mountain air and glance around.


A young couple, probably in their early twenties, stands near the parking lot. The woman hangs up her phone after a low conversation, and they chat as they stand there, like they're waiting for someone to come pick them up. This might be my only chance.


I make my way over to them, though I leave a fair amount of space between us. “Excuse me,” I call out in a soft voice as I put on the hopeful yet pained expression of a woman down on her luck.


Their eyes snap to me.


“I’m so sorry to bother you,” I say with feigned dejection, “but I left my phone on the bus. I don't suppose there's any sort of taxi service or Ubers out here that you could call for me? I'd be happy to give you cash.”


The lie comes easily, my years of practice coming in handy. It helps that I look younger than I am, and the outfit I'm wearing is classy but casual. I wanted to look nice for my mystery man when I met him, even though he’s already seen me at my worst.


“No Ubers or taxis out here, I'm afraid,” the man says with the southern lilt indicative of someone who's spent their life in rural Appalachia. “But her dad's comin' to pick us up real soon, and I'm sure we can give ya a lift if it's not too far.”


“Thank you so much.” The relief in my voice isn't feigned this time. Thank goodness for southern hospitality.


Unfortunately for me, that southern hospitality goes hand-in-hand with small talk.


“What brings ya out here?”


“Family,” I lie. “My uncle moved out here a long time ago, but he needs some help with fixing up his house now that he’s getting older. Figured I’d come help out and get away from the city for a while.”


They nod in unison. “It’s beautiful up here,” the girl says with a smile. “Not nearly as much to do as there is in the city, but it’s so much more peaceful.”


I nod. “I bet. I’m excited to get away from it all.” Understatement of the century.


Just then, a red 2000s Chevy truck pulls into the lot. The couple waves to the man in the truck, and when he pulls up alongside us, I give him a sheepish smile.


“Hey, Dad. Can we give her a ride to her uncle’s house? Poor thing left her phone on the bus.”


He scratches his beard. “Sure, but I don’t know how y’all are gonna fit in this little truck.” Shit. It’s a small truck, one with a front seat that can barely fit three people.


“I can ride in the back if that’s okay,” I say quickly, gesturing to the bed of the truck.


The girl frowns. “I feel bad.”


“Seriously, you guys giving me a ride is incredibly generous, and I have no other option. I’d be more than happy to ride in the back. Plus, it’s a beautiful night.” I flash a smile, which seems to put them at ease.


“If you say so.” The girl shrugs and hops into the middle seat.


“Do you know the address you’re headed to?” The girl’s father asks.


“Oh, right.” I pull the paper with directions from the front pocket of my backpack and hand it to him.


His daughter types it into her phone and shows him the location on the map.


He furrows his brow and glances up at me.


“You sure this is the right place?”


I nod, even though I’ve never been less sure of anything in my life.


“Alright, then.”


The younger man loads their suitcases into the truck bed, and I do the same before climbing in and sitting on the dusty, rusted metal.


The truck jolts to a start, and soon we’re taking sharp turns through mountain back roads, snaking through the thicket of trees. My hair whips in the cool evening air, but I can’t bring myself to care about how tangled it will be. Anxious anticipation wells in my chest with every minute that passes, and I don’t know if it’s hope or fear taking hold. Maybe both.


This is undoubtedly the biggest leap of faith I’ve ever taken. But my mystery man watching me without harming me shows he’s not an immediate threat, and the address in my pocket was undoubtedly placed there by him. How, I’m not sure, but I intend to find out everything.


Twilight paints the sky in a bruised purple that’s quickly fading to the blackness of night. Finally, the truck slows and turns into a driveway but stops before an old, wrought iron gate.


This is it.


Butterflies take flight in my stomach as I hop up and swing my feet over the side of the truck, finding the foothold before stepping down and heaving my suitcase with me.


The driver rolls down his window. “This the right place?” he asks, skepticism still etched on his expression.


I nod and reach toward my pocket. “Yeah. Thank you so much for the ride. I have cash if⁠—”


“No need,” he interrupts. “I’m happy to help.”


“Well, thank you again.”


He casts a uneasy glance around and lowers his voice. “One more thing. They say the devil lives in these woods, and I’m inclined to believe there’s some truth to that. Be careful.”


His warning raises chills on my skin, but I shake them off and nod my head. It’s not like I have many other options now.


The rumbling of his truck fades as they drive off, and it’s then that I realize just how isolated I am. No neighbors for miles—at least as far as I could tell—and all alone in the dense mountain woods. But this may be a new start for me, as long as he’s here. As long as he’s real.


No going back now.


I take a deep but shaky breath and push the gate. It’s unlocked, and it creaks with the slow movement.


The sound of gravel crunching under my feet is barely audible over the blood rushing in my ears.


As I round the curve in the driveway, the two-story, A-frame cabin comes into view, and the yellow light by the front door light casts a soft glow on the wooden porch. Like he’s waiting for me, I think. My stomach twists with anxiety as I get closer, each of my grating steps in the gravel signaling my approach. I carry my suitcase, not wanting to roll it and fill the air with the heavy noise.


Almost there.


I’m only a few feet from the porch steps when the door swings open, and my breath catches in my throat as he steps into view.


Oh my god, it’s really him.


But as soon as our eyes connect, my heart drops into my stomach. His sinister smile and sharp gaze aren’t welcoming—they’re smug. Assessing. Predatory.


My blood runs cold, and my suitcase hits the ground with a heavy thud as the reality of my situation slams into me and steals the breath from my lungs.


He tricked me.


And I was desperate enough to walk right into his trap.



OceanofPDF.com

cRN





CHAPTER 8


“Hell is empty and all the devils are here.”


—William Shakespeare


Ican't move. Can't speak. Can't breathe. The realization that this was all a lie, a trick, crashes down on me.


I’m so fucking stupid. I shouldn't have allowed myself so much hope.


It was too good to be true.


He leans against the doorframe, ethereal in the porch light's yellow glow. His features are exactly those from my dreams and from the brief glimpse I’d gotten of him as I faded from consciousness—high cheekbones, full lips curved in a half-smile, dark eyes that pierce straight into my soul. But there's something different now that I hadn’t been able to see before. There’s a sharpness, a terrifying sort of beauty radiating from him that’s not entirely human.


I had guessed that maybe he was different, but I never expected this. Horror seeps into my bones.


“You came,” he says, his voice low and smooth. “I wasn't entirely sure you would.” He casually twists a small, thin knife between his fingers.


The air feels too thin. No matter how many breaths I take, my lungs can’t seem to get enough oxygen.


Do I answer him? Do I try to run?


My eyes flit side-to-side, frantically searching for an escape even though I know there isn’t one. It’s an action born out of desperation rather than logic, but my mind is reeling with terror.


“There’s nowhere to go,” he says, noticing my panicked search. The only sound out here is the cacophonous scream of the crickets and cicadas and an owl hooting in the distance. No cars passing, no music from neighbors. Nothing.


“W-what are you?” I finally manage to stutter out in a hoarse whisper.


He chuckles. “Now that's refreshing. Most people start with 'who.’”He gestures toward the door. “Come in. It's getting dark.”


I stay frozen. “What do you want from me? I’ve been seeing you for months. I thought I was going crazy.”


He raises an eyebrow, and the corner of his lips lifts in a cold, amused smile. “I was in the city to kill a person or two, and you just happened to catch my attention.”


My stomach drops as another pang of fear bursts in my chest. He wasn’t there to help me, yet I had gambled everything on hoping he was. Stupid, stupid, stupid.


“Why would you want to kill me?”


The smile is gone from his expression, replaced by a calculating intensity, maybe even a bit of curiosity.


“I kill because taking a human’s life means adding to my own. It’s how I stay alive, but it’s certainly nothing personal.” He shrugs, as if that makes any of this better.


Nothing personal? Fuck that. This is my life we’re talking about. He gave me the first spark of hope I’ve had in years just to yank it away. That’s infinitely more painful than the fact that he wanted—wants—to kill me.


I would’ve rather died the first time than know that the small bit of optimism I’d allowed myself had all been a lie.


“So you’re, what, a demon?” I croak. The old man’s warning from earlier echoes in my mind. They say the devil lives in these woods.


He laughs, and I can immediately see how he’d so easily be able to lure people to him with his devilish good looks and mysterious charm. Even his voice and his laughter are alluring in that dark, dangerous sort of way.


I walked right into the trap he’d set for me, one he’s probably set for countless others.


“If that's what you want to call me. I’ve been called many things: angel, demon, revenant, vampire, incubus. Humans have a way of taking one thing and turning it into a dozen different myths with slight variations.” He moves, and the wooden porch creaks as he steps down a stair closer to me. I instinctively move backward.


“What are you really, then?”


“Many of us have adopted the term ‘Liminal beings,’ or ‘Liminals’ for short. We exist in the space between life and death, taking humans’ lives to add to our own,” he explains. “Immortal as long as we work for it.”


My mind races to process this impossible information while simultaneously acknowledging that my life is in immediate danger. I've escaped one monster only to deliver myself directly into the hands of another. I’m still not entirely convinced he’s not a demon with a prettier name.


“Why me?” I whisper. “Of all the people you could have chosen, why did you have to choose me?”


He cocks an eyebrow. “Why does it matter? You wanted to die anyway, didn’t you?” His gaze flickers to my bandaged forearms.


The question hits like a punch to the gut. I had almost forgotten that he's seen me at my lowest—bleeding out in a bathtub by my own hand.


“Because I'm curious,” I say, grasping at anything that might keep him talking. But night is falling, and the darkness seems to creep in through the thick woods around us. "Since you're going to kill me anyway, why not tell me?"


There’s that laugh again. Too enticing to be natural. “Where's the fun in telling you everything?”


Fury and despair flare through my fear as I realize I’m more angry at myself than anything. How fucking naive I’ve been.


“Please don't kill me.” It’s a pathetic plea, but it’s all I have left.


He smirks. He fucking smirks. “You wanted to die so badly only a few days ago. What’s changed?”


I open my mouth to speak, but no words come out. Honestly, it’s a good question, and I’m not sure what my answer is. Maybe it’s a fleeting moment of curiosity, maybe it’s some primal instinct wired into my brain that doesn’t want to die at the hands of a predator.


If I’m going to die, I’d rather do it myself than give a man the satisfaction of killing me.


I’m also away from Joel, something I never thought possible, and even though I have very little money, no place to live, and nothing other than the suitcase at my feet, I feel lost but liberated. Untethered.


At least, I did, until I saw him.


But in order to see where my life could go from here, I need to convince him to let me live. I have no good argument, though. “Call it a new outlook on life,” I say. “But it’s not like you can’t find any other human to kill. I’m one in eight billion people on this earth right now. You saw how miserable my life was. Please, just let me enjoy my freedom from him for a little bit longer.”


My voice catches on a sob at my final plea, but I manage to keep the tears from falling.


He’s quiet for much too long before he says, “Perhaps we can arrange something… make a deal.”


“What kind of deal?” Warning sirens blare in my head as every book, myth, and short story I’ve read about making bargains with supernatural creatures comes to mind. In all essence, this would be making a deal with the devil. But what choice do I have? I have no way out of here, and even if I did, I couldn’t go back to Joel. I have no home anymore.


He crosses his arms and leans against the wooden post at the foot of the stairs as he stares me down. “To be determined. I’ll think about it and let you know. But for now, you’ll have to stay here.”


I blow out a slow breath, but the weight of my decision is heavy on my chest. “Fine.”


“Well, then.” He clasps his hands together. “It seems I have a new pet for now. Are you coming in or not?” He flashes me another one of those unsettling smiles, and satisfaction glints in his dark eyes. It’s the expression of pure evil disguised under a layer of aloof charm.


I’m not your fucking pet, I think, but I’m still shocked into stunned silence.


I pick up my suitcase and carry it up the stairs as I follow him in, though I keep a few steps of distance between us. A few hours ago, all I wanted was to be close to him. Now, I can’t get far enough away.


But I follow him anyway, because I have no other choice.


He closes the door behind me and twists the lock, though I’m not sure why he’d worry about anyone coming into his house with him being what he is. Or maybe it’s just another signal that I’m his captive, locked in his cabin and not allowed to leave.


After learning of his true nature, I’m surprised at how pleasant the interior of the cabin is. I’d half expected to walk into some dark, dusty lair, but the atmosphere feels more cozy than anything. At least, it would if I weren’t still distraught.


From the doorway, I’m only able to see part of the living room to my left and the kitchen to my right. Directly before me is a staircase.


“You can have the bedroom upstairs,” he says. “There’s a bathroom up there, and the kitchen is to your right. Help yourself.”


I follow him up a narrow, creaking staircase to a small bedroom with a window overlooking the darkened forest. All the fiery emotions that had been coursing through my veins only minutes ago have burned out, leaving me with a cold, sinking feeling in my gut and barely enough energy to walk across the room.


I drop my suitcase on the wood floor and stand there as the despair settles in.


“I’ll leave you to get settled,” he says, moving toward the door. "Oh, and Brielle?"


I look up at him with a blank expression.


“Don't try to leave. These woods aren't safe at night. If you try to run away, you’ll be wishing I had killed you instead.”


He closes the door behind him with a sharp finality, and I sink onto the edge of the bed with my face in my hands.


What have I done?


Sleep is impossible, even despite the heavy quilt and the exhaustion aching in my bones. I lie awake for hours listening to the occasional creak of floorboards below, wondering if he's moving about or if it's just the old house settling. Waiting for him to appear over me with an evil grin and a compulsion to kill.


The moon rises high enough to cast light through the window, casting long shadows and illuminating strange shapes in an unfamiliar room.


Sleep used to be my escape. I would close my eyes and wait for him to find me in my dreams where I could forget the pain of real life.


Now, I don’t even have that. Because it was all a lie.


I can’t stay here, but I can’t leave either. I can’t sleep, but I don’t want to be awake. It’s a lose-lose situation no matter what I do, and I can’t help but wish again that I hadn’t woken up in that hospital.


I should be gone, but reality seems insistent on dragging me back.



OceanofPDF.com

cU5





CHAPTER 9


Ilie on the bed, listening to the creaks and groans of the old house. The days have blurred together, marked only by the cycle of light filtering through my window. Hunger gnaws at my empty stomach, but I can’t seem to care. The only reason I’ve gotten up is to use the restroom and sip water from the bathroom faucet.


Sleep comes in nebulous fragments. Sometimes I jolt awake certain I've heard footsteps outside my door. Other times I drift in that space between consciousness and dreams, half-expecting to see Joel standing over me, ready to drag me home.


Which would be worse? The devil I know or the one I don't?


I've thought of escaping, of course. The window overlooks a short drop to a sloped section of roof, then a manageable jump to the ground. But beyond that lies the forest that, according to my captor, is filled with things more dangerous than him. It could be a lie, but knowing the supernatural apparently does exist is enough to keep me from taking my chances.


I've traded one prison for another.


At some point yesterday—or was it this morning?—I thought I heard the bedroom door open. Gentle footsteps approached the bed. I kept my eyes closed, my breathing steady. What was the point in facing him? If he'd decided it was time to kill me, there was nothing I could do to stop it.


But the footsteps had retreated, and the door closed again.


Tonight, the hunger finally forces me out of bed and downstairs as the smell of garlic and onions wafts upstairs.


I’ll have to face him, but his offer of making a bargain has been tugging at my mind, making me wonder what he could possibly want from me. I have nothing to offer except my soul, and that’s already damned, I’m sure.


The stairs creak under my feet, and I pause once I reach the landing to take in the space.


To my right is the living room. A brick fireplace flickers with low flames, surrounded by plush armchairs and a leather sofa, and a massive picture window stretches along the facade wall. Beyond that is another room with an open door, though I can’t see what’s inside from here, and there’s a hallway parallel to the staircase leading toward the back of the house.


To my left is a small dining room with a simple circular table. I take a deep breath and walk that way, toward the sound of something sizzling in a pan. The kitchen is to my left, in the same space as the dining room, though there’s an L-shaped countertop that serves as a partial separator for the rooms.


He—I still don’t know his name—stands at the stove, stirring something in a pan. As soon as I step into view, he glances up.


“I was wondering when hunger would finally drive you downstairs,” he says casually, as if I haven’t been wasting away in that bedroom for days.


I remain still, uncertain whether to advance or retreat. My heart pounds in the same way it would when I was confronting Joel, but at least I knew what to expect from Joel. This man is a complete mystery.


“Your food’s going to get cold if you stand there all night.”


I realize he’s plating food for both of us, and I’m still frozen in place.


“Why would you cook for me?” I ask.


“People are generally easier to deal with when they’re not starving.”


I want to ask him why it matters if I’m starving or not, but when he brings the two plates from the kitchen to the dining room table, I can’t help but salivate.


“Sit,” he says.


I hate myself for obeying.


But the plate of pasta with a thick, red sauce is too tempting to refuse. I stare at it for a moment with suspicion as he walks back to the kitchen and returns with a glass of water for me.


“It's not poisoned,” he says, seemingly reading my thoughts. “That would rather defeat the purpose of keeping you around.”


I lift the fork but hesitate. His lips quirk into that unsettling half-smile. “Don’t worry. If I wanted you dead, I would’ve killed you already.”


Asshole.


I take a tentative bite. The flavors are incredible, a combination of basil, garlic, onion, and a handful of Italian spices that I can’t quite identify. Before I know it, I'm devouring the food, barely pausing between bites.


I don’t know if it tastes so amazing because I’m so hungry, or if he really is that good of a cook.


He eats as well, sitting across the table from me and studying me with curiosity. Somewhere in the back of my mind, I’m grateful for proof that he’s not some blood-drinking vampire.


“My name is Ambrose, by the way,” he says suddenly.


I look up from my nearly empty plate, stare at him for a second, then take a sip of water. I’d tell him my name, but he obviously already knows it. He probably knows everything about me.


“I’m sure you have some questions,” he says when I don’t respond.


I nod.


“Ask away.” He waves his hand casually, as if he’s preparing to tell me about his favorite color and what his hobbies are.


Questions whirl through my mind, but one sticks out above the rest.


My pulse hammers through my veins.


“You said you’d let me live if we made a deal. Have you decided what you want?”


His lips stretch into a smile.


“Actually, I have.”





Panic sets in, even as Ambrose leans back with his arm draped across the back of the chair, like this is some sort of casual business negotiation rather than a supernatural bargain for my life.


“Well?” I ask in a shaky voice. “What is it?”


Despite his nonchalant posture, he stares at me with unnerving intensity. “You're going to help me live longer.”


My brow furrows. “What do you mean? How?”


He takes a sip of water, forcing me to wait for his response.


“I told you before that taking humans’ lives adds to my lifespan. So, you’ll be taking lives for me.”


I recoil from the insinuation. “You want me to kill people?”


“Not exactly.”


My confusion only increases as I wait impatiently for him to explain.


“It doesn’t technically require you to kill. Only to be near someone at the moment of their death.”


“How does that even work?”


He reaches into the collar of his shirt and pulls out a necklace. It’s a thick, silver chain with an onyx pendant that’s carved in the shape of a raven. The small object carries an energy that ebbs with invisible power, seeming to absorb the light around it.


“This is what allows me to channel the ability to take someone’s remaining years. It’s a sort of conduit for my power. This pendant will absorb what remains of one’s natural lifespan when they die.”


“What do you mean by ‘natural lifespan?’” I ask, making air quotes with my fingers. My hands shake slightly, and I quickly lower them when Ambrose’s gaze catches on the gashes along my forearms. I had taken off the bandages earlier today to examine the healing, but I’d forgotten about needing to have the stitches removed next week. But that’s a problem for future me.


“That’s where it gets complicated. I’ve had to figure it out the hard way, but I’ve had a lot of time to do so. Essentially, it’s dependent on how long a person would have lived before dying a ‘natural’ death. For example, if you decided to kill a thirty-year-old with a terminal illness who’s on hospice care, you’d likely get a few months, maybe a year at most, because the illness is his ‘natural’ death.”


“However, if you have a thirty-year-old who just got in a car wreck, but otherwise would have naturally lived until he was one hundred, you'd get about seventy years out of him. Does that make sense?”


I swallow around the knot in my throat. “Yes.”


He takes another bite of his pasta as my stomach turns.


“Next question?” he prompts, like we’re playing a trivial game of twenty questions. What kind of cruel monster can talk so flippantly about murder like this? He may not call himself a demon, but I’m still not fully convinced he isn’t. His presence charges the air like a brewing storm, and his detached demeanor only heightens the unease weighing on my shoulders.


My curiosity spurs me on despite the horror welling inside of me. “How do you know how much time someone has left?”


“You don’t.” He shrugs, rolling the small black pendant between his thumb and forefinger. “I don’t have the ability to predict a person’s lifespan any more than a normal human would. It’s generally a bit of a guessing game. I do, however, get a general sense of it once they’ve died and I gain the remaining years.”


“That’s terrible.” I don’t bother to hide my disgust.


“It’s the way things go.”


“So what keeps you from just sitting in a hospital or nursing home all the time? People die in those places constantly.”


“If someone dies of old age, then I won’t get any life from them, so visiting nursing homes is usually pointless. And hospitals are terribly depressing.”


“Oh, so you’d just rather stalk suicidal women instead? I’m sure that gives you all the warm, fuzzy feelings,” I scoff. But alongside my sudden outburst, my stomach twists with immediate fear and regret. I haven’t spoken to anyone like that in years, and, on autopilot, my body tenses, waiting for the inevitable disproportionate retaliation to me speaking out of turn.


But Ambrose doesn’t yell or threaten me. He simply raises an eyebrow and studies my expression before saying, “I didn’t kill you, yet I easily could have. I gave you an escape, didn’t I?”


“You tricked me!” I argue, emboldened to speak up for myself now that I know his anger isn’t so easily triggered. “You made me think I was losing my mind, then gave me hope when I was at rock bottom.”


“All of which came from assumptions that you made. I simply watched you then provided you with an alternative place to go. You seem to be the one assigning frivolous meaning to those things.”


I hate him. I fucking hate him. I know I can’t possibly make him understand how devastating all of this has been for me, but his total indifference stings all the same.


He’s right, though. I built him up in my imagination as my beacon of hope when in reality, he’s just some fucked up, dangerous creature who enjoyed following me.


Taking a deep, shaky breath, I stare out the window into the darkness beyond. I wish I could cry, but the only emotion that seems capable of breaking through my numbness is the visceral hatred I have for him in this moment.


“So, what happens if I don’t agree to your deal?” I ask.


“Then you’ll be stuck here for a very, very long time… Or, “he adds casually, glancing down at my wrists, “I could simply finish the job you failed to complete.”


Fucking prick.


I may have tried to kill myself, but I’ll be damned if I give a man the satisfaction of taking my life. If nothing else, spite will keep me alive, at least until I’m out of his grasp.


Still, the threat of him killing me hangs in the air between us. He may be an asshole of the highest degree, but there’s no doubt in my mind that he’s dangerous. Invisible power radiates from him even now, as he eats his dinner without a care in the world.


“And if I agree to it? How long would it be?”


“As long as it takes you to collect the number of years I ask from you. That part is up to you.”


“How many years are you wanting me to get?”


“Five hundred.”


Five hundred? “That’s a joke, right?”


His stony expression answers my question before he speaks. “Not a joke. Realistically, depending on the age and health of those you target, you could be done with that in a month.”


I stare at him and contemplate my choices, not that I really have any. I’m stuck either way.


“You’re asking me to profit off people’s deaths,” I say. “Do you realize how fucked up that is to someone who still has their humanity and a moral compass?”


“I’m not asking you to profit off of taking others’ lives. I’m giving you the chance to save your own.”


Silence stretches between us as the wheels in my mind spin furiously. Eventually, I give him the answer he’s waiting for.


“Fine. Tell me everything I need to know.”





Ambrose insists on cleaning up dinner before explaining the finer details of the bargain to me, and each minute that passes feels like I’m one step closer to signing away my soul. I’m festering in anxiety by the time he’s finished washing the dishes, though I don’t bother offering to help.


“This is the key to everything,” he says, gently placing his necklace on the table between us. “It absorbs the lifespans and channels them to me, like I told you earlier.”


“But what about when I’m using it? Would it not affect me instead?”


“It will still work the same way regardless of who uses it. This stone is bound to me through life and death.”


It’s obviously important to him from the gentle way he holds it and the way he speaks almost reverently about its power. It sits between us, absorbing the yellow overhead light rather than reflecting it, pulsing with the same sort of energy I imagine a black hole would have. I wonder what would happen if I threw it against the wall.


“There is a chance that some of its magic could transfer to you while you’re wearing it, though,” he says, dragging my thoughts back to the present.


This piques my interest. “What do you mean?”


“With this stone, I am able to channel some—” he considers his words “—powers, I suppose. Not magic like you see in the movies, but subtle supernatural abilities. You may have figured it out by now, but I’m able to change others’ awareness of me. Not in the way of changing my appearance, but making it so that I avoid perception. Conversely, I can attract the attention of a roomful of people if I so choose.”


“So that’s why you seemed to disappear so easily when I’d look for you.”


“Yes.”


“And that’s why you constantly appeared in my dreams. You were forcing me to notice you subconsciously.”


His silence gives me all the confirmation I need. This has all been a game to him, one where he’s been toying with my sanity. Outside the window, the high-pitched whines of crickets and cicadas echoes from the forest.


He clears his throat. “Anyway, I suspect you may be able to channel those abilities, at least to some degree, when you are wearing the necklace. It also serves as an item of protection for me against others with gifts like mine, but I don’t know if that will transfer to you.”


Interesting… “So, there are others like you then? Liminals?” The word is heavy on my lips, as if it’s too powerful for me to speak.


“Yes. Not many, as far as I’m aware, but they do exist. I’ve met a dozen or so in my travels, though I haven’t actively sought any out.”


“And are they all like you?”


“In what ways?”


“Killing people to stay alive, manipulating people’s consciousness. Everything, really.”


“Not entirely. We all survive the same way, and we all have an artifact—like my necklace—that’s used to channel our power, though every person seems to have a unique ability. But as with humans, morality varies widely.”


“How so?” I ask. It’s hard to imagine a scenario where anyone like him could be virtuous.


“I met one woman who has worked as a nurse for decades, and the only lifespans she acquires come from patients who she tried her hardest to save but couldn’t. I’ve also met an extremely wealthy couple that travels across the world to popular tourist destinations, finds children who have been separated from their parents, and takes their lives since they have more years to give.”


Nausea churns in my stomach, bile rising in my throat. “That’s just… abhorrent. How could anyone justify something so evil?”


“The measure of a man is what he does with his power,” Ambrose says, quoting something vaguely familiar that I can’t quite place.


I shake my head, trying to erase the image of innocent children being taken like that. “Okay, so say I get the necklace and temporarily have some power and protection. What’s to stop me from just killing you or destroying the necklace?” I challenge. If there’s any last chance for me to get out of this, it would be him fearing for his own life, and I imagine that shattering the necklace against the wall would cause some major issues.


His fingers tighten almost imperceptibly against the dark stone. “I won’t die for a very long time if you destroy the necklace, but remember that the necklace is what channels my power. If it gets destroyed before both ends of our bargain are fulfilled, then you’re stuck here with me with no way out. And we’re making a binding deal, so if I die, you die. So, it may be in your best interest to keep me alive.”


“I could just take both of us out in one go,” I threaten.


His eyes flash like burning coals as he flashes me a wicked smile. “You could, but I don’t think you will. After all that begging for your life a few nights ago, I think there’s something keeping you alive.”


God, I hate him. Actually, hate doesn’t feel like a strong enough word. Despise. Detest. Loathe. None of them even come close to the vitriol coursing through my veins.


“Anything else I should know?” I ask through clenched teeth.


“One last thing. You’re free to go where you please, but this bargain binds us. Our energies will feed off of each other, so if you’re away for more than a day, it will begin to affect us, though you more than me. You’ll quickly become weaker, unable to function within days if not hours.”


Well, there goes my idea of escaping. “Does it matter how far away I am as long as I’m not away too long?”


“No.”


“How will you know when I’ve collected the right number of years to fulfill the deal?”


“I’ll feel it, within myself and from the pendant.”


I take a deep, steadying breath as I come to terms with what I’m about to do. It can’t be far off from making a deal with the devil.


“Five hundred years?” I ask. “And then I’m free to go with no stipulations?”


He nods. “Yes. That’s the deal.”


I stand from my seat at the table, hesitantly approach him, and hold out my hand. “I accept your terms.”


He places his hand in mine, and it’s surprisingly warm. A chill crawls across my skin as his next four words pierce through me.


“We have a deal.”



OceanofPDF.com

cY




CONTENTS


Content Warnings

Prologue

Chapter 1

Chapter 2

Chapter 3

Chapter 4

Chapter 5

Chapter 6

Chapter 7

Chapter 8

Chapter 9

Chapter 10

Chapter 11

Chapter 12

Chapter 13

Chapter 14

Chapter 15

Chapter 16

Chapter 17

Chapter 18

Chapter 19

Chapter 20

Chapter 21

Chapter 22

Chapter 23

Chapter 24

Chapter 25

Chapter 26

Chapter 27

Chapter 28

Chapter 29

Chapter 30

Chapter 31

Chapter 32

Chapter 33

Chapter 34

Chapter 35

Chapter 36

Chapter 37

Chapter 38

Chapter 39

Chapter 40

Chapter 41

Chapter 42

Chapter 43

Chapter 44

Chapter 45

Chapter 46

Epilogue



OceanofPDF.com

cYP





CHAPTER 10


It takes about a week for me to work up the bravery to take my first life. Well, not actually taking a life, since I plan to find people who are already dying. The days have been bleeding into each other, marked only by the shadows crawling across my bedroom with the rising and setting of the sun.


I occasionally go downstairs for food, but I never stay down there long. Seeing Ambrose’s smug detachment about this entire situation only infuriates me more.


But at this point, anything would be better than another day of confinement. I need to do something, and the most productive use of my time involves getting through this bargain I’ve made as quickly and painlessly as possible.


“I’m leaving,” I announce as I stand in the entryway of the living room with my arms crossed.


Ambrose raises an eyebrow from where he sits on the couch. “Is that so?”


“Yes. I’m going to fulfill my end of this bullshit deal you tricked me into. I need directions and car keys.”


His lips curl into a smile. “Wow, look at you taking initiative.”


“Don’t patronize me.”


He stands from his spot on the couch. “Where do you need directions to?”


“The nearest hospital.”


He flashes me a questioning expression as if to say, “Are you sure?” but when I stay stone-faced and expectant, he brushes past me into the dining room where a notebook lays open on the table.


He writes out directions, tears the page from the perforated edge, then hands it to me. I skim the elegant cursive handwriting, though I’m not sure why I’m checking it over. It’s not like I know my way around here enough to know if anything was off.


“Keys to the Camaro are on the key ring by the door. And here,” Ambrose says, pulling the necklace over his head and holding it out to me. “I think you’ll be able to channel a portion of its power, but I’m not sure, so don’t count on that for your plans.”


I snatch it from his outstretched hand. “How do I do that?”


“Just focus on what you want, envision yourself becoming invisible to anyone whose attention you don’t want, or vice versa. You’ll be back tonight?”


I wish I could say, “No, fuck off, I’m leaving forever,” but I can’t. Instead, I answer with a muttered, “Yeah,” before snatching up the keys and slamming the door behind me.


I probably look like a teenager throwing a tantrum with my attitude, but I really don’t care. I need some sort of release for this anger churning inside of me, and Ambrose is annoyingly calm about all of it thus far. Still, no reaction is much better than the reactions I had come to expect back home.


A jolt of fear still pierces me whenever I snap at him, but the violence I’ve come to expect as a result of my disobedience never appears.


I slide into the leather seat of the old black Camaro in the driveway and turn the key in the ignition. It hums beneath me, the gravel crunching under the tires as I pull out of the driveway. After checking Ambrose’s directions one more time and memorizing where my next two turns will be, I turn onto the serpentine mountain road and accelerate.


The road twists and turns, rises and falls, and the speedometer climbs.


Soon, I’m flying down the sharp curves of the winding mountain rounds with the wind whipping my hair in every direction. I’m going too fast, taking the turns too sharp, but I don’t care. The recklessness is exhilarating, the combination of danger and liberation stirring something deep within me.


For the first time in a very long time, I feel alive.


My stomach swoops as I crest a hill too quickly and I smile. It makes no sense, since I know I’ll need to head back to the cabin before the end of the night, but the temporary freedom overwhelms me with euphoria.


It’s funny how such small, simple moments like this can be so profound. These infinitesimal slivers of happiness are like pinpricks of starlight in the black sky—transient, but enough to shine a little light in the darkness. And for now, that’s enough to keep me going for one more hour, one more day.


I manage to follow Ambrose’s directions without getting lost, passing by the occasional dilapidated buildings with rusted tin roofs and caving walls being consumed by overgrowth. Finally, the hospital comes into sight as I pull off the highway exit.


I park on the far end of the hospital parking lot, in the shadows cast by the perfectly straight line of trees. I don’t plan on doing anything overtly suspicious, but it feels right to be obscured in the shadows. Or maybe it’s just my subconscious telling me to stay hidden because of what I’m about to do.


What am I about to do? Even I’m not entirely sure.


I figured a hospital would be the best place to find what I’m looking for: someone who’s about to die anyway but is young enough that they may have a couple decades to give. Ambrose had said the years collected go by how many years the person would “naturally” have, so if someone’s in the hospital due to an accident, they’re probably my best bet. I don’t know if I’ll manage to find someone who fits the bill, but at the very least I can get a few months from an elderly person.


Maybe.


Honestly, I have no fucking clue what I’m doing. All I know is that I need to gather 500 years of human life for Ambrose before I’m free from him forever, and I want to do it as quickly as possible.


As soon as I cross the threshold of the automatic sliding doors into the cool, sterile hospital, my stomach churns.


I hate hospitals. The waiting rooms where every person is either agitated or exhausted, the overworked staff who still manage to be everywhere at once, the subtle scent of disinfectant permeating the air in every room. It’s all overwhelming in the worst way. At least the last time I was in a hospital, I was too worried about my own life-or-death situation to notice much else.


I press my hand against my chest and sense the weight of the necklace against my skin. Ambrose had said I might be able to channel a small portion of his power through the artifact. I guess now’s a good time to test it out.


I focus my attention on the stone tucked beneath my shirt, willing myself to blend in as I visualize peoples’ attention shooting past me rather than landing on me.


But there’s no real way to know if it works, though the faint hum of energy through my veins lets me know that the magic is doing something. It’s either that or my anxiety.


For a while, I stand against a wall and survey the people in the waiting room, taking note of those who look particularly distraught. When a nurse comes out and asks a family to follow her to a different waiting room, I slip behind the four of them and walk as silently as I can manage, staying far enough away that I don’t attract their attention but close enough that a random passerby might think I’m with them. I’m not sure who they’re here for, but the thick tension emanating from the group indicates fearful uncertainty.


One of the women—a brunette who looks to be only a few years older than me—has red-rimmed eyes and a panicked expression, while the man whose hand she’s holding seems stoic, but his leg hasn’t stopped bouncing with worry since they’ve been here. The other couple that’s been huddled in beside them has been sending a flurry of text messages and talking to each other in low voices, likely updating others on whatever has happened.


The two women bear a slight resemblance to each other, and the blonde keeps putting a hand on the brunette’s shoulder as if to reassure her. The men are mostly silent. Waiting.


Maybe one of the women’s parents is back there. It would make sense why both of them are here with their husbands. And I hate that I’m calculating how many years I’d get from someone old enough to be their parent. Twenty years? Forty if I’m really lucky.


This is so fucked up.


The only solace I can find in this scenario is that if someone is dying anyway, this won’t do any additional harm, even as the wrongness of it all coils in my gut.


When we reach the smaller waiting room tucked into the end of a hallway, the nurse says something in a hushed tone to the brunette woman, who nods before gingerly lowering herself into a chair.


There’s only one other person back here—an elderly woman who seems to be alone. She’s reading a worn paperback book and tapping her foot incessantly.


It’s so fucking quiet I can hardly stand it.


I keep my focus on channeling the power of not-quite-invisibility, and though eyes pass over me, nobody really seems to give me more than a passing glance. They notice me in the same way they might notice the lamp in the corner.


After what feels like hours but is probably only twenty minutes, a doctor appears in the entryway.


His voice is too gentle when he asks, “Mr. and Mrs. McConnell?”


The couple I’ve been watching shoots to their feet and rushes to him. Their companions stand and follow closely, squeezing each other’s hands so tightly the woman’s knuckles are white.


I don’t hear all the words, but I catch enough.


Severe traumatic brain injury.


No chance of recovery.


I’m so sorry.


The woman’s wails of grief ricochet off the walls of the small room. The sound is like a knife twisting in my chest.


“No,” she sobs, “my baby. No. He can’t be gone. This isn’t real.” She shakes her head furiously, as if she can shake away the reality of what’s happening, vacillating between anguish and disbelief.


I was wrong. It’s not her parent that’s dying.


It’s her son.


Silent tears stream down her husband’s face, and his chest shakes with the sobs he’s desperately trying to hold in. He wraps her in his arms so tightly I’m afraid they both might break.


My heart splinters into a million pieces.


When the doctor asks if they’d like to come say goodbye, they say yes with agony written all over their expressions, and the four of them follow him down the hall. The sudden silence of the tiny waiting room crushes me.


The non-parent couple returns thirty minutes later while I sit frozen, both of them crying softly. It takes much longer for the parents to return with the doctor trailing behind them.


“W-we couldn’t watch it,” the mother whispers to the other woman in stuttered sobs. “But we said our goodbyes.” Her voice cracks on the last word, and it takes everything inside me to hold back tears.


The other woman nods in understanding, and they all leave together.


It’s the most heartbreaking, gut-wrenching thing I’ve ever seen.


I sit in stunned silence until the doctor, who’s still standing in the same place, approaches me. In the painful aftermath of watching parents lose their son, I’ve forgotten to channel the magic from the necklace. “I’m sorry, but who are you here for?”


The tears that spill down my cheek are genuine, just not in the way he thinks. “I’m here for Ben,” I say, using the name I’d heard the family use and nodding in the direction the four of them had left. “I… I just wasn’t sure if I could handle seeing him.”


It’s not a complete lie.


The doctor gives me a sympathetic nod, still speaking in that same gentle tone. “Well, if you want to say your goodbyes, now is the time.”


“Okay. I’m ready.”


I’m not ready. This isn’t okay. What the hell am I doing?


I follow him anyway, down the cold, impersonal labyrinth of hallways to the room where a boy is about to die.


That’s what I keep telling myself. He’s about to die. What I’m about to do will not affect anyone besides myself and Ambrose—him for the better, me for the worse. But this will change nothing for the kid.


The doctor opens a door and gestures to the bed, saying, “I’ll give you a few minutes,” before he shuts me in. The room is silent aside from the steady beep of the heart monitor and the almost inaudible hum of the medical machinery.


Holding my breath, I take slow steps toward the hospital bed.


God, he’s so small. So still. He can’t be older than seven or eight, with blonde hair that falls across his forehead in messy waves. I can so easily imagine him running around a playground or sitting in a classroom or grinning to show off the gaps where he’s lost his baby teeth.


Closing my eyes, I take in a slow, shaky breath. This feels so wrong. It’s too real.


I remember what it was like to lie in those too firm hospital beds under scratchy blankets that seem to do nothing to ward off the cold. The only difference is that the last time I was lying in one, I had desperately wanted to die. This boy doesn’t deserve death. He should have his entire life ahead of him. He never got the chance to fall in love, or go to high school, or drive a car, or find his passion in life. Instead, he’s lying here like a statue, only breathing because of the machines he’s attached to.


None of this is fair, and right now, I desperately wish I could trade places with him. This sweet, innocent soul deserves to live a hell of a lot more than I do. A part of me wants to leave now, to pretend like this never happened and go back to rotting in my bedroom. But I know that if I don’t do this now, I never will. If I leave now, I won’t be strong enough to try something like this again, and I’ll be stuck with Ambrose forever.


If I can’t prevent this little boy from dying anyway, I’ll at least make sure something positive comes from his tragic death. One day, I’ll use my eventual freedom to do some good in the world, somehow.


Before I can think about what I’m doing, I take Ben’s hand in mine.


“I’m so sorry this is happening,” I whisper. “I wish I could help you.”


A part of me expects his eyes to pop open at any second, for him to smile and tell me this is all some elaborate joke. But he doesn’t. I’m only answered with more silence.


“Your parents love you so much,” I choke out, thinking of the couple in the waiting room whose grief was so visceral it still seems to weigh down the air in this room.


There’s a knock at the door, and the doctor pokes his head in. “Do you need a few more minutes?”


I shake my head. There’s nothing else I can say or do to make this better. “No. But can I stay in here when it happens? I just don’t want him to be alone.” My voice cracks on another sob, partly because it’s true—I want to be here for him even if he has no awareness left to understand my presence—but partly because I don’t know how close I need to be for the necklace to absorb the years of his unlived life.


And that makes me hate myself even more.


The doctor nods. “Yes, you can stay.” He comes into the room followed by a couple other medical professionals.


He explains what they’re about to do, but the words don’t register. I nod numbly, all the while holding this boy’s tiny, cold hand in my own. The only thing that gives me any solace is that I have proof of the supernatural, and maybe that means there’s something beautiful waiting for this boy beyond death.


The medical staff moves around us in a blur, and I stare down at the boy’s face the entire time. When they take away his life support, silent tears roll down my cheeks until the shrill flatlining of the heart monitor fills the room.


He’s gone.


The moment he passes, the stone against my chest seems to vibrate with energy as it absorbs the years of the little boy’s life lost to a tragic accident.


My teeth clench so hard I worry they might crack, but I can’t let myself fall apart yet. I need to be alone, where no one can see or hear me break down.


I leave the room in a daze, suppressing every emotion I possibly can, and manage to find my way outside to the car. My body functions on autopilot as I put the keys in the ignition and pull out of the parking lot and onto the road, managing to get to the highway through the blur of silent tears.


I drive in silence, numb, but there’s a thread inside me threatening to snap at any second. Somehow, I manage to make it back to the cabin, and I steel myself to prepare for the possibility of confronting the evil, loathsome man inside.





Ambrose is in his usual spot, sitting in the armchair in the living room with a book in hand. When I shut the door behind me and hang the car keys on the ring beside the door, his eyes flick up. I pull the necklace off and drop it into a zipper pocket of my purse. Right now, it feels less like a piece of jewelry or a supernatural artifact and more like a noose. Ambrose’s gaze burns into my skin the entire time.


I ignore it, turning my back to him to head into the kitchen. I need some water after all the tears I’ve shed. My head is already starting to pound, and it’ll be even worse tomorrow if I don’t hydrate at least a little.


And because he seems intent on not allowing me even one moment of peace, Ambrose appears in the doorway as I’m chugging a glass of lukewarm water


“Rough day?” he asks. I can’t tell if he’s genuinely asking or if he’s mocking me, though knowing him, the latter. I ignore him while I sip my water, then return to the sink to refill my glass.


“I’ll take that as a yes.”


“You wouldn’t understand,” I mutter. I really don’t want to deal with him right now.


He quirks an eyebrow and crosses his arms over his chest. “Wouldn’t I?”


How can he be so fucking casual about all of this? Even now, I’m certain he’s holding back a smirk, like this is some game to him instead of people’s lives.


“No, you wouldn’t,” I answer through clenched teeth.


“Why?”


“Some of us don’t enjoy watching people die.” Watching children die, I think, but I don’t say that part aloud. The less ammunition he has against me, the better.


“And what makes you think I enjoy it?” He crosses his arms over his chest with infuriating calmness, and something snaps inside me. The despair and sorrow turn to white-hot rage.


“Because you’re a fucking monster!” I shout, slamming my now-empty glass onto the counter. It doesn’t shatter, even though I fully expect it to.


He stalks toward me, covering the space between us in a few long strides. My stomach drops as fear constricts my chest. I don’t even notice his hand reaching toward the countertop until he slides a butcher knife from the knife block in stride, all while imposing upon my space and forcing me backward until my back hits the wall.


The knife glints, catching the light as he raises it with inhuman speed. The blade is against my throat before I can register what’s happening.


I hold my breath, terrified to move. In our conversations over the last week, I had become complacent and almost forgotten what he was—a cold-blooded killer. A stalker. Inhuman.


“Careful, girl. This monster can still take your life without a second thought,” he sneers. He’s so close I can smell the dark, woodsy scent of his cologne and feel the heat radiating from his body as he towers over me. His dark eyes reflect his fury, like fire burning in the black pits of hell, the true nature of his evil hiding behind that charismatic facade.


I deflate. “Then do it. If this is all some elaborate scheme to torture me, then just slit my fucking throat and put me out of my misery.”


Emotion flickers across his expression for a fraction of a second. I’d almost think it was regret if I didn’t know who or what he is. But he takes a step backward, lowering the knife to his side.


We stand in silence, staring at each other for too long as the weight of whatever just happened presses down on us. His mask falls back into place, calm and cool, but something heavier lingers in his eyes.


Finally, he says, “You should probably eat something.”


“Go fuck yourself.” I brush past him and stomp upstairs, slamming my door behind me before bursting into sobs that wrack my body and breaking down entirely.



OceanofPDF.com