PRAISE FOR FURY
“[Salman Rushdie’s] latest work contains all the linguistic
virtuosity of his earlier books, and layer upon layer of
sociopolitical observations that only an outsider as brilliant
as Rushdie could make…. Fury offers an energetic, deeply
engaging story, full of gorgeous, often hilarious passages.”
—The Hartford Courant
“The sea change has invigorated Rushdie. His new novel is
very much an American book, a bitingly satiric, often
wildly farcical picture of American society in the first years
of the 21st century.”
—Publishers Weekly (starred review)
“Fury flaunts all of Rushdie’s intimidating gifts. There’s the
fascination with buzzwords, psychobabble, and
doublespeak from an intellectual who’s expert in the
language games of postmodern philosophy…. Alternately a
metaphysical thriller and a sci-fi-tinged fantasy, a treatise
on gender politics and a farce about academia, the novel
teems—as its hero does—with ideas. Not only is the book
smart, it also happens to be Rushdie’s most entertaining.”
—Book
“Fury positively vibrates with intellectual energy (it’s also
frequently quite funny).”
—Kirkus Reviews
“Rushdie’s vision of humanity—his totally unfettered
imagination—rests on the twin foundations of his
cosmopolitanism and his intelligence. His vibrant,
metaphorically soaring language is the fuel that runs this
outlandish, poignant novel to its amazing conclusion.”
—Booklist (starred review)
“Rushdie is an important writer on the world stage. [Fury]
displays a good sampling of the bedazzling erudition,

clever word play and philosophical meanderings with
which this singular writer has managed both to enchant
and to antagonize so many readers around the globe.”
—Bookpage
“Salman Rushdie’s new novel, Fury, is a masterful fairy tale
with a sardonic, au courant edge…. Like all good fairy
tales, Fury has a moral. Rushdie artfully explores issues of
race and class. [We] see American life through a
newcomer’s eyes and our sense of ourselves is forever
changed.”
—Houston Chronicle
“If Fury contains a Shakespearean vertigo, it counters it
with a Shakespearean poise among shifting values….
Rushdie’s iconic status should not confuse us. Fury
confirms his place among the world’s wittiest and wisest
writers.”
—The Providence Sunday Journal
“The satisfaction—the joy—of reading Salman Rushdie
derives from the craft, ingenuity, the constant word play
with which he spins out his inventions. He makes plausible
what in the hands of any other writer would be a contrived
and preposterous storyline.”
—The Times (Trenton, N.J.)
“What remains … is Rushdie’s great facility with language,
and the knowing social and cultural observations served up
by his tour guide of a narrator.”
—The Atlanta Journal-Constitution
“Rushdie writes of the pulse of America as if he had lived
here his entire life. Few can capture the dark side of our
society in such a comedic way. His examination of the
uneasy alliances between men and women is insightful and
enlightening. This novel succeeds on many levels and is a
timely reminder to order the priorities in our lives.
Rushdie is now welcomed into the fold as an American

author of the highest stature.”
—The Tampa Tribune and Times
“With [Fury] Rushdie delivers another Molotov cocktail
that mixes absurd and mundane, erudite and sentimental.”
—Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
“Newcomers to Rushdie will delight at the puns, the
allusions, the nimbleness.”
—Detroit Free Press
“Another showcase of Rushdie’s brilliant episodic
imagination … The novel could equally well turn out to be
for the end of the last century what Kerouac did for the
United States’ 1960s, or Balzac for 19th-century France….
Rushdie’s strikingly imaginative language is as fabulous as
ever, from the first sentence to the last….”
—Winston-Salem Journal
“Fury is an invigorating essay that diagnoses the fever of
the current age from an insider’s point of view.”
—The Onion

ALSO BY SALMAN RUSHDIE
FICTION
Grimus
Midnight’s Children
Shame
The Satanic Verses
Haroun and the Sea of Stories
East, West
The Moor’s Last Sigh
The Ground Beneath Her Feet
Shalimar the Clown
NONFICTION
The Jaguar Smile
Imaginary Homelands
The Wizard of Oz
Step Across This Line
PLAYS
Haroun and the Sea of Stories
(with Tim Supple and David Tushingham)
Midnight’s Children
(with Tim Supple and Simon Reade)
ANTHOLOGY

Mirrorwork (co-editor)

FOR PADMA

PART
one

1
Professor Malik Solanka, retired historian of ideas, irascible
dollmaker, and since his recent fifty-fifth birthday celibate and
solitary by his own (much criticized) choice, in his silvered years
found himself living in a golden age. Outside his window a long,
humid summer, the first hot season of the third millennium, baked
and perspired. The city boiled with money. Rents and property values
had never been higher, and in the garment industry it was widely held
that fashion had never been so fashionable. New restaurants opened
every hour. Stores, dealerships, galleries struggled to satisfy the
skyrocketing demand for ever more recherché produce: limited-
edition olive oils, three-hundred-dollar corkscrews, customized
Humvees, the latest anti-virus software, escort services featuring
contortionists and twins, video installations, outsider art, featherlight
shawls made from the chin-fluff of extinct mountain goats. So many
people were doing up their apartments that supplies of high-grade
fixtures and fittings were at a premium. There were waiting lists for
baths, doorknobs, imported hardwoods, antiqued fireplaces, bidets,
marble slabs. In spite of the recent falls in the value of the Nasdaq
index and the value of Amazon stock, the new technology had the city
by the ears: the talk was still of start-ups, IPOs, interactivity, the
unimaginable future that had just begun to begin. The future was a
casino, and everyone was gambling, and everyone expected to win.
On Professor Solanka’s street, well-heeled white youths lounged in
baggy garments on roseate stoops, stylishly simulating indigence
while they waited for the billionairedom that would surely be along
sometime soon. There was a tall, green-eyed young woman with
steeply slanting Central European cheekbones who particularly caught
his sexually abstinent but still roving eye. Her spiky strawberry-blond
hair stuck out clown-fashion from under a black D’Angelo Voodoo

baseball cap, her lips were full and sardonic, and she giggled rudely
behind a perfunctory palm as old-world, dandyish, cane-twirling little
Solly Solanka in straw Panama hat and cream linen suit went by on
his afternoon walk. Solly: the college identity he’d never cared for but
had not entirely managed to lose.
“Hey, sir? Sir, excuse me?” The blonde was calling out to him, in
imperious tones that insisted on a reply. Her satraps became watchful,
like a Praetorian guard. She was breaking a rule of big-city life,
breaking it brazenly, sure of her power, confident of her turf and
posse, fearing nothing. This was just pretty-girl chutzpah; no big deal.
Professor Solanka paused and turned to face the lounging goddess of
the threshold, who proceeded, unnervingly, to interview him. “You
walk a lot. I mean, five or six times a day, I see you walking
someplace. I’m sitting here, I see you come, I see you go, but there’s
no dog, and it’s not like you come back with lady friends or produce.
Also, the hours are strange, it can’t be that you’re going to a job. So
I’m asking myself, Why is he always out walking alone? There’s a guy
with a lump of concrete hitting women on the head across town,
maybe you heard that, but if I thought you were a weirdo, I wouldn’t
be talking to you. And you have a British accent, which makes you
interesting too, right. A few times there we even followed you, but
you weren’t going anywhere, just wandering, just covering ground. I
got the impression you were looking for something, and it crossed my
mind to ask you what that might be. Just being friendly, sir, just being
neighborly. You’re kind of a mystery. To me you are, anyhow.”
Sudden anger rose in him. “What I’m looking for,” he barked, “is to
be left in peace.” His voice trembled with a rage far bigger than her
intrusion merited, the rage which shocked him whenever it coursed
through his nervous system, like a flood. Hearing his vehemence, the
young woman recoiled, retreating into silence.
“Man,” said the largest, most protective of the Praetorian guard, her
lover, no doubt, and her peroxide-blond centurion, “for an apostle of
peace you sure are filled up with war.”
She reminded him of someone, but he couldn’t remember whom,
and the little failure of memory, the “senior moment,” nagged at him
infuriatingly. Luckily she wasn’t there anymore, no one was, when he
returned from the Caribbean carnival damp-hatted and soaked
through after being caught unprepared by a squall of hard, hot rain.
Passing the Congregation Shearith Israel on Central Park West (a

white whale of a building with a triangular pediment supported by
four count ’em four massive Corinthian columns), Professor Solanka
scurrying through the downpour remembered the newly bat-
mitzvahed thirteen-year-old girl he’d glimpsed through the side door,
waiting knife in hand for the ceremony of the blessing of the bread.
No religion offers a ceremony of the Counting of the Blessings, mused
Professor Solanka: you’d think the Anglicans, at least, would have
come up with one of those. The girl’s face glowed through the
gathered gloom, its young round features utterly confident of
achieving the highest expectations. Yes, a blessed time, if you cared to
use words like “blessed;” which Solanka, a skeptic, did not.
On nearby Amsterdam Avenue there was a summer block party, a
street market, doing good business in spite of the showers. Professor
Solanka surmised that in the greater part of the planet the goods piled
high on these cut-price barrows would have filled the shelves and
display cabinets of the most exclusive little boutiques and upper-
echelon department stores. In all of India, China, Africa, and much of
the southern American continent, those who had the leisure and
wallet for fashion—or more simply, in the poorer latitudes, for the
mere acquisition of things—would have killed for the street
merchandise of Manhattan, as also for the cast-off clothing and soft
furnishings to be found in the opulent thrift stores, the reject china
and designer-label bargains to be found in downtown discount
emporia. America insulted the rest of the planet, thought Malik
Solanka in his old-fashioned way, by treating such bounty with the
shoulder-shrugging casualness of the inequitably wealthy. But New
York in this time of plenty had become the object and goal of the
world’s concupiscence and lust, and the “insult” only made the rest of
the planet more desirous than ever. On Central Park West the horse-
drawn carriages moved up and down. The jingling of the bells on the
harnesses sounded like cash in hand.
The season’s hit movie portrayed the decadence of Caesar Joaquin
Phoenix’s imperial Rome, in which honor and dignity, not to mention
life-and-death actions and distractions, were to be found only in the
computer-regenerated illusion of the great gladiatorial arena, the
Flavian Amphitheatre or Colosseum. In New York, too, there were
circuses as well as bread: a musical about lovable lions, a bike race on
Fifth, Springsteen at the Garden with a song about the forty-one
police gunshots that killed innocent Amadou Diallo, the police union’s

threat to boycott the Boss’s concert, Hillary vs. Rudy, a cardinal’s
funeral, a movie about lovable dinosaurs, the motorcades of two
largely interchangeable and certainly unlovable presidential
candidates (Gush, Bore), Hillary vs. Rick, the lightning storms that hit
the Springsteen concert and Shea Stadium, a cardinal’s inauguration,
a cartoon about lovable British chickens, and even a literary festival;
plus a series of “exuberant” parades celebrating the city’s many
ethnic, national, and sexual subcultures and ending (sometimes) in
knifings and assaults on (usually) women. Professor Solanka, who
thought of himself as egalitarian by nature and a born-and-bred
metropolitan of the countryside-is-for-cows persuasion, on parade
days strolled sweatily cheek by jowl among his fellow citizens. One
Sunday he rubbed shoulders with slim-hipped gay-pride prancers, the
next weekend he got jiggy beside a big-assed Puerto Rican girl
wearing her national flag as a bra. He didn’t feel intruded upon amid
these multitudes; to the contrary. There was a satisfying anonymity in
the crowds, an absence of intrusion. Nobody here was interested in his
mysteries. Everyone was here to lose themselves. Such was the
unarticulated magic of the masses, and these days losing himself was
just about Professor Solanka’s only purpose in life. This particular
rainy weekend there was a calypso beat in the air, not the mere Harry
Belafonte Jamaica-farewells and jackass-songs of Solanka’s somewhat
guiltily fond memory (“Now I tell you in a positive way / don’ tie me
donkey down dere / ’cause me donkey will jump and bray / don tie me
donkey down dere!”), but the true satirical music of the Jamaican
troubadour-polemicists, Banana Bird, Cool Runnings, Yellowbelly, live
in Bryant Park and on shoulder-high boomboxes up and down
Broadway.
When he got home from the parade, however, Professor Solanka
was seized by melancholy, his usual secret sadness, which he
sublimated into the public sphere. Something was amiss with the
world. The optimistic peace-and-love philosophy of his youth having
given him up, he no longer knew how to reconcile himself to an
increasingly phony (he loathed, in this context, the otherwise
excellent word “virtual”) reality. Questions of power preyed on his
mind. While the overheated citizenry was eating these many varieties
of lotus, who knew what the city’s rulers were getting away with—not
the Giulianis and Safirs, who responded so contemptibly to the
complaints of abused women until amateur videos of the incidents

showed up on the evening news, not these crude glove-puppets, but
the high ones who were always there, forever feeding their insatiable
desires, seeking out newness, devouring beauty, and always, always
wanting more? The never encountered but ever present kings of the
world—godless Malik Solanka avoided crediting these human
phantoms with the gift of omnipresence—the petulant, lethal Caesars,
as his friend Rhinehart would say, the Bolingbrokes cold of soul, the
tribunes with their hands up the mayor’s and police commissioner’s
Coriolanuses … Professor Solanka shuddered faintly at this last image.
He knew himself well enough to be conscious of the broad scarlet
streak of vulgarity in his character; still, the crude pun shocked him
when he thought of it.
Puppet-masters were making us all jump and bray, Malik Solanka
fretted. While we marionettes dance, who is yanking our strings?
The phone was ringing as he came through his front door, the rain
still dripping off his hat brim. He answered it snappishly, snatching
off its base the cordless unit in the apartment’s entrance hall. “Yes,
what, please?” His wife’s voice arrived in his ear via a cable on the
Atlantic bed, or maybe in these days when everything was changing it
was a satellite high above the ocean, he couldn’t be sure. In these days
when the age of pulse was giving way to the age of tone. When the
epoch of analog (which was to say also of the richness of language, of
analogy) was giving way to the digital era, the final victory of the
numerate over the literate. He had always loved her voice. Fifteen
years ago in London he had telephoned Morgen Franz, a publishing
friend who by chance was away from his desk, and Eleanor Masters,
passing by, had picked up the clamoring instrument; they had never
met but ended up talking for an hour. A week later they dined at her
place, neither of them alluding to the inappropriateness of so intimate
a venue for a first date. A decade and a half of togetherness ensued.
So, he fell in love with her voice before the rest of her. This had
always been their favorite story about each other; now, of course, in
love’s brutal aftermath, when memory was reinvented as pain, when
voices on the phone were all they had left, it had become one of the
saddest. Professor Solanka listened to the sound of Eleanor’s voice and
with some distaste imagined it being broken up into little parcels of
digitized information, her low lovely voice first consumed and then
regurgitated by a mainframe computer probably located someplace
like Hyderabad-Deccan. What is the digital equivalent of lovely, he

wondered. What are the digits that encode beauty, the number-fingers
that enclose, transform, transmit, decode, and somehow, in the
process, fail to trap or choke the soul of it. Not because of the
technology but in spite of it, beauty, that ghost, that treasure, passes
undiminished through the new machines.
“Malik. Solly.” (This, to annoy him.) “You’re not listening. You’ve
gone off inside your head on one of your riffs and the plain fact that
your son is ill hasn’t even registered. The plain fact that I have to
wake up every morning and listen to him asking—unbearably asking
—why his father isn’t home hasn’t registered. Not to mention the
plainest fact of all, namely that without a shred of a reason or a scrap
of credible explanation you walked out on us, you went off across an
ocean and betrayed all those who need and love you most, who still
do, damn you, in spite of everything.” It was only a cough, the boy
didn’t have anything life-threatening, but she was right; Professor
Solanka had withdrawn into himself. In this small telephonic matter
as in the greater business of their life once together and now apart,
their marriage once considered indissoluble, the best partnership any
of their friends had ever witnessed; and of their joint parenthood of
Asmaan Solanka, now an improbably beautiful and gentle-natured
three-year-old, the miraculously yellow-haired product of dark-haired
parents, whom they had named so celestially (Asmaan, n., m., lit. the
sky, but also fig. paradise) because he was the only heaven in which
they could both wholeheartedly and unreservedly believe.
Professor Solanka apologized to his wife for his distractedness,
whereupon she wept, a loud honking noise that squeezed at his heart,
for he was by no means a heartless man. He waited silently for her to
stop. When she did, he spoke in his most mandarin manner, denying
himself—denying her—the slightest hint of emotion. “I accept that
what I have done must feel inexplicable to you. I am remembering,
however, what you yourself taught me about the importance of the
inexplicable”—here she hung up on him, but he finished the sentence
anyway—“in, ah, Shakespeare.” Which unheard conclusion conjured
up the vision of his wife in the nude, of Eleanor Masters fifteen years
ago in her long-haired, twenty-five-year-old glory lying naked with
her head in his lap and a battered Complete Works, bound in blue
leather, face down across her bush. Such had been the indecorous but
sweetly swift conclusion of that first dinner. He had brought the wine,
three expensive bottles of Tignanello Antinori (three! Evidence of a

seducer’s excessiveness there), while she had roasted a lamb shank for
him and also served, to accompany the cumin-scented meat, a salad of
fresh flowers. She wore a short black dress and walked lightly, and
barefoot, through a flat much influenced by Bloomsbury Group design
and craft-work, and boasting a caged parrot who imitated her laugh: a
big laugh for so delicate a woman. His first and last blind date, she
turned out to be fully the equal of her voice; not only beautiful but
smart, somehow both confident and vulnerable, and a great cook.
After eating many nasturtiums and drinking copiously of his Tuscan
red, she began to explain her doctoral thesis (they were sitting on the
floor of her living room by now, lounging on a handmade rug woven
by Cressida Bell), but kisses interrupted her, for Professor Solanka had
fallen tenderly, like a lamb, in love. They would happily argue, during
their long good years, about which of them had made the first move,
she always hotly (but with bright eyes) denying that she could ever
have been so forward, he insisting—while knowing it to be untrue—
that she had “thrown herself at him.”
“Do you want to hear this stuff or not?” Yes, he’d nodded, his hand
caressing one small, finely wrought breast. She put her hand over his
and launched into her argument. Her proposition was that at the heart
of each of the great tragedies were unanswerable questions about
love, and, to make sense of the plays, we must each attempt to
explicate these inexplicables in our own way. Why did Hamlet, loving
his dead father, interminably delay his revenge while, loved by
Ophelia, he destroyed her instead? Why did Lear, loving Cordelia best
of his daughters, fail to hear the love in her opening-scene honesty
and so fall prey to her sisters’ unlovingness; and why was Macbeth, a
man’s man who loved his king and country, so easily led by the erotic
but loveless Lady M. toward an evil throne of blood? Professor
Solanka in New York, still absently holding the cordless telephone in
his hand, recalled with awe naked Eleanor’s erect nipple beneath his
moving fingers; also her extraordinary answer to the problem of
Othello, which for her was not the “motiveless malignity” of Iago but
rather the Moor’s lack of emotional intelligence, “Othello’s incredible
stupidity about love, the moronic scale of the jealousy which leads
him to murder his allegedly beloved wife on the flimsiest of
evidence.” This was Eleanor’s solution: “Othello doesn’t love
Desdemona. The idea just popped into my head one day. A real
lightbulb moment for me. He says he does, but it can’t be true.

Because if he loves her, the murder makes no sense. For me,
Desdemona is Othello’s trophy wife, his most valuable and status-
giving possession, the physical proof of his risen standing in a white
man’s world. You see? He loves that about her, but not her. Othello
himself, obviously, is not a black man but a ‘Moor’: an Arab, a
Muslim, his name probably a Latinization of the Arabic or Ataullah.
So he’s not a creature of the Christian world of sin and redemption
but rather of the Islamic moral universe, whose polarities are honor
and shame. Desdemona’s death is an ‘honor killing.’ She didn’t have to
be guilty. The accusation was enough. The attack on her virtue was
incompatible with Othello’s honor. That’s why he didn’t listen to her,
or give her the benefit of the doubt, or forgive her, or do anything a
man who loved a woman might have done. Othello loves only himself,
himself as lover and leader, what Racine, a more inflated writer,
would have called his flamme, his gloire. She’s not even a person to
him. He has reified her. She’s his Oscar-Barbie statuette. His doll. At
least that’s what I argued, and they gave me the doctorate, perhaps
just as a prize for brazenness, for my sheer gall.” She took a big gulp
of the Tignanello, then arched her back and put both arms around his
neck and pulled him down to her. Tragedy vanished from their
thoughts.
These many years later, Professor Solanka stood under a hot
shower, warming himself after his soaked ramble with the calypso
revelers and feeling like a pompous dope. To quote Eleanor’s thesis
against her was a cruelty he might easily have spared her. What was
he thinking of, giving himself and his paltry actions these high
Shakespearean airs? Did he truly dare to set himself beside the Moor
of Venice and King Lear, to liken his humble mysteries to theirs? Such
vanity was surely a more than adequate ground for divorce. He should
call her back and tell her that, by way of apology. But that, too, would
strike the wrong note. Eleanor didn’t want a divorce. Even now, she
wanted him back. “You know perfectly well,” she had told him more
than once, “that if you decided to give this up, this stupidity of yours,
everything would be fine. It would be so fine. I can’t bear it that you
won’t.”
And this was the wife he had left! If she had a failing, it was that
she didn’t give blow jobs. (His own eccentricity was that he hated
having the top of his head touched during the act of love.) If she had
a failing, it was that she had so acute a sense of smell that she made

him feel as if he stank the place up. (As a result, however, he had
begun to wash more often.) If she had a failing, it was that she bought
things without ever asking what they cost, an extraordinary trait in a
woman who did not, as the British say, come from money. If she had a
failing, it was that she had grown accustomed to being kept, and
could spend more money on Christmas than half the population
earned in a year. If she had a failing, it was that her mother-love
blinded her to the rest of humanity’s desires, including, to be blunt,
Professor Solanka’s. If she had a failing, it was that she wanted more
children. That she wanted nothing else. Not all the gold of Araby.
No, she was faultless: the tenderest, most attentive of lovers, the
most extraordinary mother, charismatic and imaginative, the easiest
and most rewarding of companions, not a big talker but a good one
(reference that first phone call), and a connoisseur not just of food
and drink but of human character, too. To be smiled on by Eleanor
Masters Solanka was to feel subtly, pleasingly complimented. Her
friendship was a pat on the back. And if she spent freely, what of it?
The Solankas were unexpectedly well-off, thanks to the almost
shocking worldwide popularity of a female doll with a cheeky grin
and the cocky insouciance that was just beginning to be called
“attitude,” and of whom Asmaan Solanka, born eight years later,
uncannily looked like the fair-haired, dark-eyed, sweeter-natured
flesh-and-blood embodiment. Though he was very much a boy,
preoccupied by giant diggers, steamrollers, rocket ships, and railway
engines, and captivated by the I-think-I-can-I-think-I-can-I-thought-I-
could-I-thought-I-could determination of Casey Jones, the indomitable
circus-hauling little engine in Dumbo, Asmaan was constantly,
infuriatingly, taken for a girl, probably because of his long-eyelashed
beauty, but possibly also because he reminded people of his father’s
earlier creation. The doll’s name was Little Brain.

2
Professor Solanka in the late 1980s despaired of the academic life, its
narrowness, infighting, and ultimate provincialism. “The grave yawns
for us all, but for college dons it yawns with boredom,” he proclaimed
to Eleanor, adding, unnecessarily as things turned out, “Prepare for
poverty.” Then to the consternation of his fellows, but with his wife’s
unqualified approval, he resigned his tenured position at King’s,
Cambridge—where he had been inquiring into the development of the
idea of the state’s responsibility to and for its citizens, and of the
parallel and sometimes contradictory idea of the sovereign self—and
moved to London (Highbury Hill, within shouting distance of the
Arsenal Stadium). Soon afterward he plunged into, yes, television;
which drew down much predictably envious scorn, especially when
the BBC commissioned him to develop a late-night series of popular
history-of-philosophy programs whose protagonists would be
Professor Solanka’s notorious collection of outsize egghead dolls, all
made by himself.
This was simply too much. What had been a tolerable eccentricity
in a respected colleague became intolerable folly in a craven defector,
and The Adventures of Little Brain was unanimously derided, before it
was ever screened, by “intellos” both great and small. Then it aired,
and within a season, to general astonishment and the knockers’
chagrin, grew from a sophisticated coterie’s secret pleasure into a cult
classic with a satisfyingly youthful and rapidly expanding fan base,
until at last it was handed the accolade of being moved into the
coveted slot after the main evening news. Here it blossomed into a
full-blooded prime-time hit.
It was well known at King’s that in Amsterdam in his middle
twenties Malik Solanka—in the city to speak on religion and politics
at a left-leaning institute funded by Fabergé money—visited the

Rijksmuseum and was entranced by that great treasure-trove’s
displays of meticulously period-furnished dollhouses, those unique
descriptions of the interior life of Holland down the ages. They were
open-fronted, as if bombs had knocked away their façades; or like
little theaters, which he completed by being there. He was their fourth
wall. He began to see everything in Amsterdam as if miniaturized: his
own hotel on the Herengracht, the Anne Frank house, the impossibly
good-looking Surinamese women. It was a trick of the mind to see
human life made small, reduced to doll size. Young Solanka approved
of the results. A little modesty about the scale of human endeavor was
to be desired. Once you had thrown that switch in your head, the hard
thing was to see in the old way. Small was beautiful, as Schumacher
had just then begun to say.
Day after day, Malik visited the Rijksmuseum dollhouses. Never
before in his life had he thought of making anything with his hands.
Now his head was full of chisels and glue, rags and needles, scissors
and paste. He envisioned wallpaper and soft furnishings, dreamed
bedsheets, designed bathroom fixtures. After a few visits, however, it
became clear that mere houses would not be enough for him. His
imaginary environments must be peopled. Without people there was
no point. The Dutch dollhouses, for all their intricacy and beauty, and
in spite of their ability to furnish and decorate his imagination, finally
made him think of the end of the world, some strange cataclysm in
which property had remained undamaged while all breathing
creatures had been destroyed. (This was some years before the
invention of that ultimate revenge of the inanimate upon the living,
the neutron bomb.) After he had this idea, the place began to revolt
him. He started imagining back rooms in the museum filled with giant
heaps of the miniature dead: birds, animals, children, servants, actors,
ladies, lords. One day he walked out of the great museum and never
went back to Amsterdam again.
On his return to Cambridge he immediately started to construct
microcosms of his own. From the beginning his dollhouses were the
products of an idiosyncratic personal vision. They were fanciful at
first, even fabulist; science-fiction plunges into the mind of the future
instead of the past, which had already and unimprovably been
captured by the miniaturist masters of the Netherlands. This sci-fi
phase didn’t last long. Solanka soon learned the value of working, like
the great matadors, closer to the bull; that is, using the material of his

own life and immediate surroundings and, by the alchemy of art,
making it strange. His insight, which Eleanor would have called a
“lightbulb moment,” eventually led to a series of “Great Minds” dolls,
often arranged in little tableaux—Bertrand Russell being clubbed by
policemen at a wartime pacifist rally, Kierkegaard going to the opera
for the interval so that his friends didn’t think he was working too
hard, Machiavelli being subjected to the excruciating torture known
as the strappado, Socrates drinking his inevitable hemlock, and
Solanka’s favorite, a two-faced, four-armed Galileo: one face muttered
the truth under its breath, while one pair of arms, hidden in the folds
of his garments, secreted a little model of the earth spinning around
the sun; the other face, downcast and penitent under the stern gaze of
the men in the red frocks, publicly recanted its knowledge, while a
copy of the Bible was tightly, devoutly clutched by the second pair of
arms. Years later, when Solanka quit the academy, these dolls would
go to work for him. These, and the questing knowledge-seeker he
created to be their television interrogator and the audience’s
surrogate, the female time-traveling doll Little Brain, who afterward
became a star and sold in large numbers around the world. Little
Brain, his hip, fashion-conscious, but still idealistic Candide, his
Valiant-for-Truth in urban-guerrilla threads, his spiky-haired girl-
Bashō journeying, mendicant bowl in hand, far into the Deep North of
Japan.
Little Brain was smart, sassy, unafraid, genuinely interested in the
deep information, in the getting of good-quality wisdom; not so much
a disciple as an agent provocateur with a time machine, she goaded
the great minds of the ages into surprising revelations. For example,
the favorite fiction writer of the seventeenth-century heretic Baruch
Spinoza turned out to be P. G. Wodehouse, an astonishing
coincidence, because of course the favorite philosopher of the
immortal shimmying butler Reginald Jeeves was Spinoza. (Spinoza
who cut our strings, who allowed God to retire from the post of divine
marionettist and believed that revelation was an event not above
human history but inside it. Spinoza who never wore unsuitable shirts
or ties.) The Great Minds in The Adventures of Little Brain could be
time-hoppers, too. The Iberian Arab thinker Averroës, like his Jewish
counterpart Maimonides, was a huge Yankees fan.
Little Brain went too far just once. In her interview with Galileo
Galilei, she, in the beer-swilling, trash-talking fashion of the new

ladettes, offered the great man her own nobody-fucks-with-me point
of view on his troubles. “Man, I wouldn’t have taken that stuff lying
down,” she leaned toward him and fervently said. “If some pope had
tried to get me to lie, I’d have started a fucking revolution, me. I’d
have set his house on fire. I’d have burned his fucking city down.”
Well, the bad language got toned down—to “freaking”—at an early
stage of production, but that wasn’t the problem. Arson at the Vatican
was too much for the bosses of the airwaves to bear and Little Brain
suffered, for the first time, the numbing indignities of censorship. And
could do nothing about it except, perhaps, to mutter the truth along
with Galileo: it does too move. I would too let it all go up in flames …
Rewind to Cambridge. Even “Solly” Solanka’s first efforts—his space
stations and podlike domestic structures for assembly on the moon—
displayed qualities of originality and imagination which, in the loud
dinner-table opinion of a French Lit specialist who was working on
Voltaire, were “refreshingly absent” from his scholarly work. The quip
raised a big laugh from everyone within earshot.
“Refreshingly absent.” This is the Oxbridge way of speech, this easy,
bantering offer of insults which are simultaneously not at all serious
and in deadly earnest. Professor Solanka never grew accustomed to
the barbs, often received terrible injuries from them, always
pretended he saw the funny side, never once saw it. Oddly, this was
something he had in common with his Voltairean assailant, the
alarmingly named Krysztof Waterford-Wajda, known as Dubdub, with
whom he had in fact forged the most unlikely of friendships.
Waterford-Wajda, like Solanka, had gotten the hang of the expected
conversational style under the pressure of their ferocious peer group,
but he too remained uncomfortable with it. Solanka knew this, and so
didn’t hold “refreshingly absent” against him. The laughter of the
listeners, however, he never forgot.
Dubdub was jovial, Old Etonian, loaded, half-Hurlingham Club
deb’s delight, half-Polish glowerer, the son of a self-made man, a
stocky immigrant glazier who looked, talked, and drank like a
backstreet fighter, made his bundle in double glazing, and married
amazingly well, to the horror of the country-house set (“Sophie
Waterford’s married a Pole!”). Dubdub had floppy-haired Rupert
Brooke good looks marred by a lantern jaw, a wardrobe full of loud
tweed jackets, a drum kit, a fast car, no girlfriend. At a freshers’ ball
in his first term, emancipated young sixties women refused his

invitations to dance, prompting him to cry out, plaintively, “Why are
all the girls in Cambridge so rude?” To which some heartless Andrée
or Sharon replied, “Because most of the men are like you.” In the
dinner line, hooray-Henry playfully, he offered another young beauty
his sausage. To which she, this deadpan Sabrina, this Nicki used to
blowing off unwanted admirers, without turning a hair retorted
sweetly, “Oh, but there are some animals I simply never eat.”
It has to be admitted that Solanka himself had been guilty of
needling Dubdub more than once. On their joint graduation day in the
liberated summer of 1966, when gowned and elated and hemmed in
by parents on the college front lawn they were allowing themselves to
dream the future, innocent Dubdub astonishingly announced his
intention of becoming a novelist. “Like Kafka perhaps,” he mused,
grinning that big upper-class grin, his mother’s hockey-captain grin
which no shadow of pain, poverty, or doubt had ever darkened and
which sat so incongruously below his paternal inheritance, the
beetling, dark eyebrows reminiscent of untranslatable privations
endured by his ancestors in the unglamorous town of Lodz. “In the Rat
Hole. Construction of a Machine Without a Purpose. Fury. That sort of
thing.”
Solanka restrained his mirth, charitably telling himself that in the
conflict between that smile and those eyebrows, between silver-spoon
England and tin-cup Poland, between this glowing six-foot Cruella De
Vil fashion plate of a mother and that squat, flat-faced tank of a
father, there might indeed be room for a writer to germinate and
flourish. Who could say? These might even be the right breeding
conditions for that unlikely hybrid, an English Kafka.
“Or, alternatively,” Dubdub pondered, “one could go in for the
more commercial stuff. Valley of the Dollybirds. Or there’s the happy
medium, halfway between the highbrow and the dross. Most people
are middlebrow, Solly, don’t argue. They want a little stimulation but
not too blasted much. Also, by the by, not too blasted long. None of
your great doorstops, your Tolstoy, your Proust. Short books that
don’t give you a headache. The great classics retold—briefly—as pulp
fiction. Othello updated as The Moor Murders. What do you say to
that?”
That did it. Lubricated by the Waterford-Wajdas’ vintage
champagne—neither of his own parents had seen fit to travel from
Bombay to attend his graduation, and Dubdub had generously insisted

on pouring him a glass, and refilling it frequently—Solanka erupted
into an impassioned protest against Krysztof’s absurd proposals,
pleading earnestly that the world be spared the literary outpourings of
Waterford-Wajda, author. “Please, no obscurely menacing
countryhouse sagas: Brideshead in the style of The Castle.
Metamorphosis at Blandings. Oh, have mercy. Even more, regarding sex
romps, restrain yourself. You’re more Alex Portnoy than Jackie
Susann, who said, remember, that she admired Mr. Roth’s talent but
wouldn’t want to shake his hand. Above all, from your blockbuster
classics, desist. The Cordelia Conundrum? The Elsinore Uncertainty? Oh,
oh, oh.”
After several minutes of such friendly-unfriendly teasing, Dubdub
good-naturedly relented: “Well, p’raps I’ll be a film director instead.
We’re just off to the South of France. They probably need film
directors down there.”
Malik Solanka had always had a soft spot for goofy Dubdub, in part
because of his ability to say things like this, but also because of the
fundamentally good and open heart concealed beneath all the posh
heehaw. Also, he owed him. At the Market Hill hostel of King’s
College on a cold fall night in 1963, the eighteen-year-old Solanka
had needed rescuing. He had spent his whole first day at college in a
state of wild, overweening funk, unable to get out of bed, seeing
demons. The future was like an open mouth waiting to devour him as
Kronos had devoured his children, and the past—Solanka’s links with
his family were badly eroded—the past was a broken pot. Only this
intolerable present remained, in which he found he couldn’t function
at all. Far easier to stay in bed and pull up the covers. In his
characterless modern room of Norwegian wood and steel-frame
windows he barricaded himself against whatever was next in store.
There were voices at the door; he didn’t answer. Footsteps came and
went. At seven , however, a voice unlike any other—louder,
P.M.
plummier, and utterly confident of a reply—shouted out, “Anyone in
there mislaid a bloody great trunk with some funny wog name on it?”
And Solanka, to his own surprise, spoke up. So the day of terror, of
suspended animation, ended and his university years began. Dubdub’s
appalling voice, like a prince’s kiss, had broken the evil spell.
Solanka’s worldly goods had been delivered by mistake to the
college’s hostel on Peas Hill. Krys—he hadn’t yet become Dubdub—
found a cart, helped Solanka haul the trunk onto it and steer it to its

proper home, then dragged the trunk’s hapless owner off for a beer
and dinner in the college hall. Later they sat side by side in that hall
listening to the dazzlingly shiny Provost of King’s tell them they were
at Cambridge for “three things—intellect! Intellect! Intellect!” And
that in the years ahead they would learn most, more than in any
supervision or lecture hall, from the time they spent “in one another’s
rooms, fertilizing one another.” Waterford-Wajda’s unignorable bray
—“HA, ha, ha, HA”—shattered the stunned silence that followed this
remark. Solanka loved him for that irreverent guffaw.
Dubdub did not become a novelist or a film director. He did his
research, got his doctorate, was eventually offered a fellowship, and
snapped it up with the grateful look of a man who has just settled
forever the whole question of the rest of his life. In that expression
Solanka glimpsed the Dubdub behind the golden-boy mask, the young
man desperate to escape from the privileged world into which he had
been born. Solanka tried inventing for him, by way of explanation, a
hollow socialite of a mother and a boorish brute of a father, but his
imagination failed him; the parents he had actually met were perfectly
pleasant and seemed to love their son a great deal. Yet Waterford-
Wajda had certainly been desperate, and even spoke, when drunk, of
the King’s fellowship as a “blasted lifeline, the only thing I’ve got.”
This, when by anyone’s ordinary standards he had so much. The fast
car, the drum kit, the family spread in Roehampton, the trust fund,
the Tatlerish connections. Solanka, in a failure of sympathy he later
much regretted, told Dubdub not to roll about so much in the mud of
self-pity. Dubdub stiffened, nodded, gave a hard laugh—“HA-ha-ha-
HA”—and did not speak of personal matters again for many years.
The question of Dubdub’s intellectual capacity remained, for many
of his colleagues, unanswerable: the Dubdub Conundrum. He seemed
so foolish so often—a nickname that never caught on, because it was
too unkind even for Cambridge men, was Pooh, after the immortal
Bear of Little Brain—yet his academic performance won him much
preferment. The thesis on Voltaire that got him his doctorate and
provided the launchpad for his later fame read like a defense of
Pangloss—both of that imaginary worthy’s initial Leibnizian over-
optimism and of his later espousal of fenced-in quietism. This ran so
profoundly counter to the dystopic, collectivist, politically engagé
current of the times in which he wrote it as to be, for Solanka as for
others, quite seriously shocking. Dubdub gave an annual series of

lectures called “Cultiver Son Jardin.” Few lectures at Cambridge—
Pevsner’s, Leavis’s, no others—had attracted comparable crowds. The
young (or, to be exact, the younger, because Dubdub for all his
fogeyish attire had by no means done with his youth) came to heckle
and boo but left more quietly and thoughtfully, seduced by his deep
sweetness of nature, by that same blue-eyed innocence and
concomitant certainty of being heard that had roused Malik Solanka
from his first-day funk.
Times change. One morning in the mid-seventies, Solanka slipped in
at the back of his friend’s lecture hall. What impressed him now was
the toughness of what Dubdub was saying and the way in which his
strongly contrasting, almost Pythonesque twittishness defused it. If
you looked at him you saw a tweedy fop, hopelessly out of touch with
what was then still being called the zeitgeist. But if you listened, you
heard something very different: an enveloping Beckettian bleakness.
“Expect nothing, don’t you know,” Dubdub told them, leftist radicals
and beaded hairies alike, waving a crumbling copy of Candide. “That’s
what the good book says. There will be no improvement in the way
life is. Dreadful news, I know, but there you have it. This is as good as
it gets. The perfectibility of man is just, as you might say, God’s bad
joke.”
Ten years earlier, when various utopias, marxist, hippyish, seemed
just around the corner, when economic prosperity and full
employment allowed the intelligent young to indulge their brilliant,
idiotic fantasies of dropout or revolutionary Erewhons, he might have
been lynched, or at least heckled into silence. But this was the
England in the aftermath of the miners’ strike and the three-day week,
a cracked England in the image of Lucky’s great soliloquy in Godot, in
which man in brief was seen to shrink and dwindle, and that golden
moment of optimism, when the best of all possible worlds seemed just
around the bend, was fading fast. Dubdub’s Stoical take on Pangloss—
rejoice in the world, warts and all, because it’s all you’ve got, and
rejoicing and despair are therefore interchangeable terms—was
rapidly coming into its own.
Solanka himself was affected by it. As he struggled to formulate his
thoughts on the perennial problem of authority and the individual, he
sometimes heard Dubdub’s voice egging him on. These were statist
times, and it was in part Waterford-Wajda who allowed him not to
run with the crowd. The state couldn’t make you happy, Dubdub

whispered in his ear, it couldn’t make you good or heal a broken
heart. The state ran schools, but could it teach your children to love
reading, or was that your job? There was a National Health Service,
but what could it do about the high percentage of people who went to
their doctors when they didn’t need to? There was state housing, sure,
but neighborliness was not a government issue. Solanka’s first book, a
small volume called What We Need, an account of the shifting
attitudes in European history toward the state-vs.-individual problem,
was attacked from both ends of the political spectrum and later
described as one of the “pre/texts” of what came to be called
Thatcherism. Professor Solanka, who loathed Margaret Thatcher,
guiltily conceded the partial truth of what felt like an accusation.
Thatcherite Conservatism was the counterculture gone wrong: it
shared his generation’s mistrust of the institutions of power and used
their language of opposition to destroy the old power-blocs—to give
the power not to the people, whatever that meant, but to a web of fat-
cat cronies. This was trickle-up economics, and it was the sixties’
fault. Such reflections contributed greatly to Professor Solanka’s
decision to quit the world of thought.
By the late 1970s Krysztof Waterford-Wajda was a bit of a star.
Academics had become charismatic. The victory of science, when
physics would become the new metaphysics, and microbiology, not
philosophy, would grapple with the great question of what it is to be
human, was as yet a little way off; literary criticism was the glamour
act, and its titans strode from continent to continent in seven-league
boots to strut upon an ever larger international stage. Dubdub
traveled the world with personal wind effects ruffling his tousled,
prematurely silvery locks, even indoors, like Peter Sellers in The Magic
Christian. Sometimes he was mistaken by eager delegates for the
mighty Frenchman Jacques Derrida, but this honor he would wave
away with an English self-deprecating smile, while his Polish
eyebrows frowned at the insult.
This was the period in which the two great industries of the future
were being born. The industry of culture would in the coming decades
replace that of ideology, becoming “primary” in the way that
economics used to be, and spawn a whole new nomenklatura of
cultural commissars, a new breed of apparatchiks engaged in great
ministries of definition, exclusion, revision, and persecution, and a
dialectic based on the new dualism of defense and offense. And if

culture was the world’s new secularism, then its new religion was
fame, and the industry—or, better, the church—of celebrity would
give meaningful work to a new ecclesia, a proselytizing mission
designed to conquer this new frontier, building its glitzy celluloid
vehicles and its cathode-ray rockets, developing new fuels out of
gossip, flying the Chosen Ones to the stars. And to fulfill the darker
requirements of the new faith, there were occasional human sacrifices,
and steep, wing-burning falls.
Dubdub was an early Icarus-like flameout. Solanka saw little of him
in his golden years. Life separates us with its apparently casual
happenstance, and when one day we shake our heads as if waking
from a reverie, our friends have become strangers and can’t be
retrieved: “Does nobody here know poor Rip van Winkle?” we ask
plaintively, and nobody, any longer, does. So it was with the two old
college pals. Dubdub was mostly in America now, some sort of a chair
had been invented for him at Princeton, and there were phone calls
back and forth at first, then Christmas and birthday cards, then
silence. Until, one balmy Cambridge summer evening in 1984, when
the old place was its most perfectly storybook self, an American
woman knocked on the oak, the outer door of Professor Solanka’s
rooms—formerly occupied by E. M. Forster—on “A” staircase, above
the students’ bar. Her name was Perry Pincus; she was small-boned,
dark, big-breasted, sexy, young, but fortunately not young enough to
be a student. All these things quickly made a good impression on
Solanka’s melancholy consciousness. He was recovering from the end
of a first, childless marriage, and Eleanor Masters was some way in
the future. “Krysztof and I got to Cambridge yesterday,” Perry Pincus
said. “We’re at the Garden House. Or, I’m at the Garden House. He’s in
Addenbrooke’s. Last night he cut his wrists. He’s been very depressed.
He asked for you. Can I get a drink?”
She came in and took in her surroundings appreciatively. The
houses, little and largeish, and the humanoid figures sitting
everywhere, tiny figures in the houses, of course, but also others
outside them, on Professor Solanka’s furniture, in the corners of his
rooms, soft and hard figures, male and female, also both largeish and
small. Perry Pincus was carefully—if heavily—painted, her eyelids
weighed down by heavy black eyelash extensions, and she wore full
sex-kitten battle dress, a short tight outfit, stiletto heels. Not the
customary attire of a woman whose lover has just attempted suicide,

but she made no excuses for herself. Perry Pincus was a young Eng Lit
person who liked to fuck the stars of her increasingly uncloistered
world. As a devotee of the casual encounter, consequences (wives,
suicides) were not her thing. Yet she was bright, lively, and like all of
us believed herself to be an acceptable person, even, perhaps, a good
one. After her first shot of vodka—Professor Solanka always kept a
bottle in the freezer—she said, matter-of-factly, “It’s clinical
depression. I don’t know what to do. He’s sweet, but I’m no good at
sticking by men in trouble. I’m not the nurse type. I like a take-charge
guy.” After two shots she said, “I think he was a virgin when he met
me. Is that even possible? He didn’t admit it, of course. Said back
home he was quite a catch. That turns out to be true, financially
speaking, but I’m not the money-grubbing type.” After three shots she
said, “All he ever wanted was to get a b.j. or, alternatively, fuck me in
the ass. Which was okay, you know, whatever. I get a lot of that. It’s
one of my looks: boy-with-tits. It gets the sexually confused guys.
Trust me on this. I know.” After four shots, she said, “Talking of
sexually confused, Professor, great dolls.”
He decided he was hungry, but not this hungry, and gently coaxed
her downstairs onto King’s Parade and into a taxi. She stared at him
through the window with smudged eyes and a puzzled expression,
then leaned back, closed her eyes, faintly shrugged. Whatever.
Afterward he learned that in her own way Perry “Pinch-ass” was
famous on the global literary circuit. You could be famous for
anything nowadays, and she was.
The next morning he visited Dubdub, not in the main hospital, but
in a good-looking old brick building standing in green, leafy grounds a
little way down Trumpington Road: like a country house for the
hopeless. Dubdub stood at a window smoking a cigarette, wearing
crisp, wide-striped pajamas under what looked like his old school
dressinggown, a worn, stained thing that was perhaps playing the part
of a security blanket. His wrists were bandaged. He looked heavier,
older, but that goddamn society smile was still there, still on parade.
Professor Solanka thought that if his own genes had sentenced him to
wear such a mask every day of his life, he’d have been in here with
bandaged wrists long ago.
“Dutch elm disease,” Dubdub said, pointing to the stumps of trees.
“Frightful business. The elms of old England, lost and gone.” Lorst and
gorn. Professor Solanka said nothing. He hadn’t come to talk about

trees. Dubdub turned toward him, got the point. “Expect nothing and
you won’t be disappointed, eh,” he murmured, looking boyishly
shamefaced. “Should’ve listened to my own lectures.” Still Solanka
didn’t answer. Then, for the first time in many years, Dubdub put
aside the Old Etonian act. “It’s to do with suffering,” he said flatly.
“Why do we all suffer so. Why is there so much of it. Why can’t you
ever stop it. You can build dikes, but it always comes oozing through,
and then one day the dikes just give way. And it’s not just me. I mean,
it is me, but it’s everyone. It’s you, too. Why does it go on and on? It’s
killing us. I mean, me. It’s killing me.”
“This sounds a little abstract,” Professor Solanka ventured, gently.
“Yes, well.” That was definitely a snap. The deflector shields were
back in place. “Sorry not to come up to scratch. Trouble with being a
Bear of Little Brain.”
“Please,” Professor Solanka asked. “Just tell me.”
“That’s the worst part,” Dubdub said. “There’s nothing to tell. No
direct or proximate cause. You just wake up one day and you aren’t a
part of your life. You know this. Your life doesn’t belong to you. Your
body is not, I don’t know how to make you feel the force of this,
yours. There’s just life, living itself. You don’t have it. You don’t have
anything to do with it. That’s all. It doesn’t sound like much, but
believe me. It’s like when you hypnotize someone and persuade them
there’s a big pile of mattresses outside their window. They no longer
see a reason not to jump.”
“I remember it, or a lesser version of it,” Professor Solanka
assented, thinking of that night in Market Hill long ago. “And you
were the one who snapped me out of it. Now it’s for me to do the
same for you.” The other shook his head. “This isn’t something you
just snap out of, I’m afraid.” The attention he’d been getting, the
celebrity status, had greatly aggravated Dubdub’s existential crisis.
The more he became a Personality, the less like a person he felt.
Finally he had decided on a retreat back into the cloisters of
traditional academe. No more of all that globetrotting Magic Christian
Derridada! No more performance. Energized by his new resolve, he
had flown back to Cambridge with the literary groupie Perry Pincus,
an unashamed sexual butterfly, actually believing he could set up
house with her and build a stable life around the relationship. That’s
how far gone he was.

Krysztof Waterford-Wajda would survive three further suicide
attempts. Then, just one month before Professor Solanka
metaphorically took his own life, saying good-bye to everyone and
everything he held dear and striking out for America with a spiky-
haired doll in his arms—a special, early-period limited edition of
Little Brain in bad condition, the clothes ripped, the body damaged—
Dubdub dropped dead. Three arteries had been badly clogged. A
simple bypass operation could have saved him, but he refused it and,
like an English elm, fell. Which perhaps, if one were searching for
such explanations, helped trigger Professor Solanka’s metamorphosis.
Professor Solanka, remembering his dead friend in New York, realized
that he had followed Dubdub in so many things: in some of his
thinking, yes, but also into le monde médiatique, into America, into
crisis.
Perry Pincus had been one of the first to intuit the link between
them. She had returned to her native San Diego and now taught, in a
local college, the work of some of the critics and writers whom she
had carnally known. Pincus 101, she called it, brazen as ever, in one
of the annual Happy Holidays messages she never failed to send
Professor Solanka. “It’s my personal greatest-hits collection, my Top
Twenty,” she wrote, adding, a little cuttingly, “You’re not in it,
Professor. I can’t walk around in a man’s work if I don’t know which
entrance he prefers.” Her season’s greetings were invariably
accompanied, incomprehensibly, by the gift of a soft toy—a platypus,
a walrus, a polar bear. Eleanor had always been much amused by the
annual parcels from California. “Because you wouldn’t fuck her,”
Professor Solanka was informed by his wife, “she can’t think of you as
a lover. So she’s trying to become your mother instead. How does it
feel to be Perry Pinch-ass’s little boy?”

3
In his comfortable Upper West Side sublet, a handsome, high-
ceilinged first- and second-floor duplex boasting majestic oak paneling
and a library that spoke highly of the owners, Professor Malik Solanka
nursed a glass of red Geyserville zinfandel and mourned. The decision
to leave had been wholly his; still, he grieved for his old life.
Whatever Eleanor said on the phone, the break was almost certainly
irreparable. Solanka had never thought of himself as a bolter or
quitter, yet he had shed more skins than a snake. Country, family, and
not one wife but two had been left in his wake. Also, now, a child.
Maybe the mistake was to see his latest exit as unusual. The harsh
reality was perhaps that he was acting not against nature but
according to its dictates. When he stood naked before the unvarnished
mirror of truth, this was what he was really like.
Yet, like Perry Pincus, he believed himself to be a good person.
Women believed it too. Sensing in him a ferocity of commitment that
was rarely found in modern men, women had often allowed
themselves to fall in love with him, surprising themselves—these
wised-up, cautious women!—by the speed with which they charged
outward into the really deep emotional water. And he didn’t let them
down. He was kind, understanding, generous, clever, funny, grown-
up, and the sex was good, it was always good. This is forever, they
thought, because they could see him thinking it too; they felt loved,
treasured, safe. He told them—each of his women in turn—that
friendship was what he had instead of family ties, and, more than
friendship, love. That sounded right. So they dropped their defenses
and relaxed into all the good stuff, and never saw the hidden twisting
in him, the dreadful torque of his doubt, until the day he snapped and
the alien burst out of his stomach, baring multiple rows of teeth. They
never saw the end coming until it hit them. His first wife, Sara, the

one with the graphic verbal gift, put it thus: “It felt like an ax-
murder.”
“Your trouble is,” Sara incandescently said near the end of their last
quarrel, “that you’re really only in love with those fucking dolls. The
world in inanimate miniature is just about all you can handle. The
world you can make, unmake, and manipulate, filled with women
who don’t answer back, women you don’t have to fuck. Or are you
making them with cunts now, wooden cunts, rubber cunts, fucking
inflatable cunts that squeak like balloons as you slide in and out; do
you have a life-size fuck-dolly harem hidden in a shed somewhere, is
that what they’ll find when one day you’re arrested for raping and
chopping up some golden-haired eight-year-old, some poor fucking
living doll you played with and then threw away. They’ll find her
shoe in a hedge and there’ll be descriptions of a minivan on TV and
I’ll be watching and you won’t be home and I’ll think, Jesus, I know
that van, it’s the one he carries his fucking toys around in when he
goes to his perverts’ I’ll-show-you-my-dolly-if-you’ll-show-me-yours
reunions. I’ll be the wife who never knew a thing. I’ll be the fucking
cow-faced wife on TV forced to defend you just to defend myself, my
own unimaginable stupidity, because after all, I chose you.”
Life is fury, he’d thought. Fury—sexual, Oedipal, political, magical,
brutal—drives us to our finest heights and coarsest depths. Out of
furia comes creation, inspiration, originality, passion, but also
violence, pain, pure unafraid destruction, the giving and receiving of
blows from which we never recover. The Furies pursue us; Shiva
dances his furious dance to create and also to destroy. But never mind
about gods! Sara ranting at him represented the human spirit in its
purest, least socialized form. This is what we are, what we civilize
ourselves to disguise—the terrifying human animal in us, the exalted,
transcendent, self-destructive, untrammeled lord of creation. We raise
each other to the heights of joy. We tear each other limb from fucking
limb.
Her name was Lear, Sara Jane Lear, some sort of distant relative of
the writer and watercolorist, but there wasn’t a trace of antic
Edward’s immortal nonsense in her. How pleasant to know Sara Lear,
who remembers such volumes of stuff! Some folks think her awfully queer,
but I find her pleasant enough. The revised verse didn’t raise the ghost
of a smile. “Imagine how many times people have recited those exact
words to me and you’ll excuse me for not being impressed.” She was a

year or so his senior and was writing a thesis on Joyce and the French
nouveau roman. In her second-floor flat on Chesterton Road, “love”—
which in retrospect looked more like fear, a mutual clutching at the
life belt of the other while drowning in twentysomething loneliness—
made him plow his way twice through Finnegans Wake. Also the dour
pages of Sarraute, Robbe-Grillet, and Butor. When he looked up
miserably from the great heaps of their slow, obscure sentences, he
found her watching him from the other armchair, turning in his
direction that angular devil-mask of a face, beautiful but sly. Sly-eyed
lady of the Fenlands. He couldn’t read her expression. It might have
been contempt.
They married too quickly for thought and felt trapped by the
mistake almost immediately. Yet they stayed together for several
miserable years. Afterward, when he told the story of his life to
Eleanor Masters, Solanka cast his first wife as the one with the exit
strategies, the player most likely to resign the game. “She gave up
early on everything she desired most. Before she found out she wasn’t
up to it.” Sara had been the outstanding university actress of her
generation but had left it there, forever leaving behind the greasepaint
and the crowd without a word of regret. Later she would also
abandon her thesis and get a job in advertising, emerging from the
chrysalis of her bluestocking wardrobe and spreading gorgeous
butterfly wings.
This was soon after their marriage ended. When Solanka found out
about it he was briefly furious. All that effortful reading for nothing!
And not only reading. “Thanks to her,” he raged at Eleanor, “I saw
L’Année dernière à Marienbad three times in one day. We spent a whole
weekend working out that damn matchstick game they play. ‘You
won’t win, you know.’—‘It’s not a game if you can’t lose.’—‘Oh, I can
lose, but I never do.’ That game. Thanks to her it’s still stuck in my
head, but she’s buggered off to the universe of if you’ve got it flaunt
it. I’m stuck here in the blasted couloirs of French fiction and she’s in a
Jil Sander power suit in a forty-ninth-floor corner office on Sixth
Avenue, pulling down, I have no doubt, some major bucks.”
“Yes, but for the record, you dumped her,” Eleanor pointed out.
“You found the next one and traded Sara in: left her cold and flat. You
should never have married her, obviously, which is your only excuse.
That’s the great unanswerable question about love posed by your
Queen Lear: what on earth were you thinking of? Also, you got yours

when the next one, the Wagnerian Valkyrie with the Harley, threw
you over for which composer was it?” She knew the answer perfectly
well, but it was a story they both enjoyed. “Fucking Rummenigge.”
Solanka grinned, calming down. “She worked as an assistant on one of
his three-orchestras-and-a-Sherman-tank efforts and afterward he sent
her a telegram. Kindly refrain from all sexual intercourse until we can
examine the deep bond that evidently lies between us. And the next day a
one-way ticket to Munich, and she disappeared into the Black Forest
for years. She wasn’t happy, though,” he added. “Didn’t know when
she was well-off, you see.” When Solanka left Eleanor, she added a
bitter postscript to these reflections. “Actually, I’d like to hear their
sides of these stories,” she said during one difficult telephone call.
“Maybe you were just a coldhearted bastard from the start.”
• • •
Malik Solanka, strolling alone toward a late-night Kieslowski double
bill at the Lincoln Plaza, tried to imagine his own life as a Dekalog
movie. A Short Film About Desertion. Which Commandments could
his story be said to illustrate or, as the Kieslowski scholar who
introduced last week’s episodes preferred, interrogate? There were
many Commandments against the sins of improper commission.
Covetousness, adultery, lust, these things were anathematized. But
where were the laws against sins of improper omission? Thou Shalt
Not Be an Absentee Father. Cometh to Thinkst of It, Thou Shalt Not
Walk Out of Thy Life Without a Fucking Good Reason, Buster, and
What You’ve Put Up So Far Doesn’t Even Come Close. What Dost Thou
Think? Thou Canst Do Any Goddamn Thing Thou Wantest? Who the
Fuck Dost Thou Imagine Thou Ist: Hugh Hefner? The Dalai Lama?
Donald Trump? At What the Sam Hill Art Thou Playing? Huh, Bub?
Huh???
Sara Lear was probably right here in town, he suddenly thought.
She would be in her late fifties now, a big shot with a booming
portfolio, the secret booking numbers for Pastis and Nobu, and a
weekend place south of the highway in, ah, Amagansett. Thank
heavens there was no need to track her down, look her up,
congratulate her on her life choices. How she would have crowed! For
they had lived long enough to witness the absolute victory of
advertising. Back in the seventies, when Sara gave up the serious life
for the frivolous, working in ad-land had been slightly shameful. You

confessed it to your friends with lowered voice and downcast eyes.
Advertising was a confidence trick, a cheat, the notorious enemy of
promise. It was—a horrible thought in that era—nakedly capitalist.
Selling things was low. Now everyone—eminent writers, great
painters, architects, politicians—wanted to be in on the act. Reformed
alcoholics plugged booze. Everybody, as well as everything, was for
sale. Advertisements had become colossi, clambering like Kong up the
walls of buildings. What was more, they were loved. When he was
watching TV, Solanka still turned the sound down at commercial
breaks, but everyone else, he was sure, turned it up. The girls in the
ads—Esther, Bridget, Elizabeth, Halle, Gisele, Tyra, Isis, Aphrodite,
Kate—were more desirable than the actresses in the shows in
between; hell, the guys in the ads—Mark Vanderloo, Marcus
Schenkenberg, Marcus Aurelius, Marc Antony, Marky Mark—were
more desirable than the actresses in the shows. And as well as
presenting the dream of an ideally beautiful America in which all
women were babes and all men were Marks, after doing the basic
work of selling pizza and SUVs and I Can’t Believe It’s Not Butter,
beyond money management and the new ditditdit of the dotcoms, the
commercials soothed America’s pain, its head pain, its gas pain, its
heartache, its loneliness, the pain of babyhood and old age, of being a
parent and of being a child, the pain of manhood and women’s pain,
the pain of success and that of failure, the good pain of the athlete
and the bad pain of the guilty, the anguish of loneliness and of
ignorance, the needle-sharp torment of the cities and the dull, mad
ache of the empty plains, the pain of wanting without knowing what
was wanted, the agony of the howling void within each watching,
semiconscious self. No wonder advertising was popular. It made
things better. It showed you the road. It wasn’t a part of the problem.
It solved things.
As a matter of fact, there was a copywriter living in Professor
Solanka’s building. He wore red suspenders and Hathaway shirts and
even smoked a pipe. He had introduced himself that very afternoon by
the mailboxes in the vestibule, holding a set of rolled-up layouts.
(What was it about Solanka’s solitude, the professor silently asked
himself, that apparently obliged his neighbors to disturb it?) “Mark
Skywalker, from the planet Tatooine.”
Whatever, as Perry Pincus would have said. Solanka was
uninterested in this bow-tied, bespectacled, markedly un-Jedi-knight-

like young man, and as a former science-fiction buff despised the
lowbrow space opera of the Star Wars cycle. But he had already
learned not to argue with self-invention in New York. He had learned,
also, when giving his own name to omit the “Professor.” Learning
annoyed people, and formality was a form of pulling rank. This was
the country of the diminutive. Even the stores and eating places got
friendly fast. Right around the corner he could find Andy’s, Bennie’s,
Josie’s, Gabriela’s, Vinnie’s, Freddie & Pepper’s. The country of
reserve, of the understatement and the unsaid, he had left behind, and
a good thing too, on the whole. At Hana’s (medical supplies) you
could walk right in and buy a . The unsayable was right
MASTECTOMY BRA
there in the window in red letters a foot high. So, anyway, “Solly
Solanka,” he replied, neutrally, surprising himself by using the
disliked nickname; whereupon Skywalker frowned. “Are you a
landsman?” Solanka was unfamiliar with the term, and said as much,
apologetically. “Oh, then you’re not.” Skywalker nodded. “I thought,
because of Solly, maybe. Also, excuse me, something about the nose.”
The meaning of the unknown word quickly became clear from context
and raised an interesting question, which Solanka refrained from
asking: so, they had Jews on Tatooine?
“You’re British, right,” Skywalker went on. (Solanka didn’t get into
the postcolonial, migrational niceties.) “Mila told me. Do me a favor.
Take a look at these.” Mila was presumably the young empress of the
street. Solanka noted without pleasure the euphony of their naming:
Mila, Malik. When the young woman discovered this, she would no
doubt be unable to resist mentioning it to him. He would be forced to
point out the obvious, namely that sounds were not meanings, and
this was a mere interlingual echo from which nothing, certainly not a
human connection, need follow. The young adman had unrolled the
layouts and spread them on the hall table. “I want to get your honest
opinion,” Skywalker explained. “It’s a corporate-image campaign.”
The layouts showed double-page-spread images of famous city
skylines at sunset. Solanka gestured vaguely, not knowing how to
respond. “The copy line,” Skywalker prompted. “Is it okay?” All the
pictures bore the same heading.
THE SUN NEVER SETS ON AMERICAN EXPRESS
. “Good. It’s good,” Solanka said, not
INTERNATIONAL BANKING CORPORATION
knowing if it was in fact good, average, or terrible. Presumably there
was always an American Express office open somewhere in the world,
so the statement was probably true, though why would it be useful to

an individual in, say, London to know that the banks were still open
in Los Angeles? All this he kept to himself, and looked, he hoped,
judicious and approving. But Skywalker evidently wanted more. “As a
Britisher,” he probed, “you’re saying the British won’t be insulted?”
This was a genuine puzzlement. “Because of the British empire, I
mean. On which the sun never sets. There’s no offense intended.
That’s what I want to be sure of. That the line doesn’t come across as
an insult to your country’s glorious past.” Professor Solanka felt huge
irritation rise up in his breast. He experienced a strong desire to
screech at this fellow with the damn-fool alias, to call him names and
perhaps actually smack him across the face with an open hand. It took
an effort to restrain himself, and in a level voice to reassure earnest
young Mark in his David Ogilvy-clone outfit that even the most red-
faced colonels in England were unlikely to be upset by his banal
formulation. Then he hurried into his apartment, shut the door with
his heart pounding, leaned against the wall, closed his eyes, gasped,
and shook. Yes, this was the other side of the coin of his new hi-how-
you-doin’, up-front, in-your-face, environment: this new
MASTECTOMY BRA
cultural hypersensitivity, this almost pathological fear of giving
offense. Okay, he knew that, everybody knew it, that wasn’t the point.
The point was, where was all this anger coming from? Why was he
being caught off guard, time and again, by surges of rage that almost
overwhelmed his will?
He took a cold shower. Then for two hours he lay in his darkened
bedroom with both air conditioner and ceiling fan working flat-out to
battle the heat and humidity. Controlling his breathing helped, and he
also used visualization techniques to relax. He imagined the anger as
a physical object, a soft dark throbbing lump, and mentally drew a red
triangle around it. Then he slowly made the triangle smaller until the
lump disappeared. This worked. His heartbeat returned to normal. He
switched on the bedroom television, a whirring and clanking old
monster of a set dating from an earlier generation of technology, and
watched El Duque on the mound, his amazing, hyperbolic action. The
pitcher coiled himself up until his knee almost touched his nose, then
unwound like a whip. Even in this erratic, almost panicky season in
the Bronx, Hernández inspired calm.
Professor Solanka made the mistake of flipping briefly to CNN,
where it was all Elián, all the time. Professor Solanka was nauseated
by people’s eternal need for totems. A little boy had been rescued

from a rubber ring in the sea, his mother drowned, and at once the
religious hysteria had begun. The dead mother became almost a
Marian figure and there were posters reading . The cult,
ELIÁN, SAVE US
born of Miami’s necessary demonology—according to which Castro
the devil, Hannibal-the-Cannibal Castro, would eat the boy alive,
would tear out his immortal soul and munch it down with a few fava
beans and a glass of red wine—instantly developed a priesthood as
well. The dreadful media-fixated uncle was anointed pope of
Eliánismo, and his daughter, poor Marisleysis, with her “nervous
exhaustion,” was exactly the type who would, any day now, start
witnessing the seven-year-old’s first miracles. There was even a
fisherman involved. And of course apostles, spreading the word: the
photographer living in Elián’s bedroom, the TV-movie people waving
contracts, publishing houses doing likewise, CNN itself and all the
other news crews with their uplink dishes and fuzzy mikes.
Meanwhile in Cuba, the little boy was being transformed into quite
another totem. A dying revolution, a revolution of the old and
straggle-bearded, held the child up as proof of its renewed youth. In
this version, Elián rising from the waters became an image of the
revolution’s immortality: a lie. Fidel, that ancient infidel, made
interminable speeches wearing an Elián mask.
And for a long time the father, Juan Miguel González, stayed in his
hometown of Cárdenas and said little. He said he wanted his son back,
which was perhaps dignified, and perhaps enough. Pondering what he
himself might do if his uncles and cousins were to come between him
and Asmaan, Professor Solanka snapped a pencil in half. Then he
switched channels back to the ball game, but it was too late. El
Duque, himself a Cuban refugee, would not be of Solanka’s mind in
this. That mind, in which Asmaan Solanka and Elián González blurred
and joined, was overheating again, pointing out that in his own case
no relatives had needed to get between Solanka and his child. He had
achieved the rupture without outside assistance. As the helpless rage
mounted in him he used, again, his well-practiced techniques of
sublimation, and directed the anger outward, at the ideologically
deranged Miami mob, transformed by experience into what they
hated most. Their flight from bigotry had turned them into bigots.
They screamed at journalists, abused politicians who disagreed with
them, shook their fists at passing cars. They spoke of the evils of
brainwashing, but their own brains were self-evidently unclean. “Not

washing but staining,” Solanka found himself actually yelling aloud at
the Cuban pitcher on TV. “You people have been brainstained by your
lives. And that little boy on a swing with a hundred camera snouts
nosing at his confusion: what are you telling him about his dad?”
He had to go through it all over again: the shaking, the pounding,
the gasping for air, the shower, the darkness, the breathing, the
visualization. No drugs; he had put them off-limits, and he was also
avoiding head doctors. The gangster Tony Soprano might be going to
a shrink, but fuck him, he was fictional. Professor Solanka had
resolved to face his demon by himself. Psychoanalysis and chemistry
felt like cheating. If the duel were to be truly won, if the demon that
possessed him was to be wrestled to the mat and consigned to hell, it
had to be just the two of them going at it, ass naked, without
restraint, in a bare-knuckle fight to the death.
It was dark when Malik Solanka deemed himself fit to leave the
apartment. Shaken, but putting on a show of jauntiness, he set out for
the Kieslowski double bill. If he had been a Vietnam vet or even a
reporter who’d seen too much, his behavior would have been more
readily comprehensible. Jack Rhinehart, an American poet and war
correspondent he had known for twenty years, if woken by a ringing
telephone would, to this day, usually smash the instrument to bits. He
couldn’t stop himself doing it, and was only half awake when it
happened. Jack got through a lot of phones, but he accepted his fate.
He was damaged, and thought himself lucky it wasn’t worse. But the
only war Professor Solanka had been in was life itself, and life had
been kind to him. He had money and what most people thought of as
an ideal family. Both his wife and child were exceptional. Yet he had
sat in his kitchen in the middle of the night with murder on the brain;
actual murder, not the metaphorical kind. He’d even brought a
carving knife upstairs and stood for a terrible, dumb minute over the
body of his sleeping wife. Then he turned away, slept in the spare
bedroom, and in the morning packed his bags and caught the first
plane to New York without giving a reason. What had happened was
beyond reason. He needed to put an ocean, at least an ocean, between
himself and what he had almost done. So Ms. Mila, the empress of
West Seventieth Street, had been closer to the truth than she knew.
Than she must ever know.
He was waiting in line at the cinema, lost inside himself. Then a
young man’s voice started up behind his right ear, disgracefully loud,

not caring who listened, telling its story to a companion but also to
the whole line, to the city; as if the city cared. To live in Metropolis
was to know that the exceptional was as commonplace as diet soda,
that abnormality was the popcorn norm: “So finally I called her, and
I’m like, hi, Mom, wassup, and she goes, You wanna know who’s
sitting down to dinner here in Nowheresville, who’s right here eating
your mother’s meatloaf, we’ve got Santa Claus, that’s all. Santa Claus
sitting right there at the head of the table where your snake skunk
weasel father used to set his motherfuckin’ dumb-fuck ass. I swear to
God. I mean it’s three and she’s already losing it. That’s what she
P.M.
said, word for fuckin’ word. Santa Claus. And I go, Sure, Mom, and
where’s Jesus at. And she comes back with, That’s Mister Jesus Christ
to you, young man, and I’ll have you know that Mister Jesus H. Christ
is takin’ care of the fish course. So, that was all I could handle, so I’m
like, So long, Mom, give the gentlemen my best, have a happy.” And
alongside the male voice there was a woman’s hard, horrified
laughter. HA-ha-ha-HA.
At this point in a Woody Allen movie (a part of Husbands and Wives
had actually been filmed in Solanka’s rented apartment) the cinema-
goers would have joined in the conversation, taking sides, offering
personal anecdotes to rival or surpass the one they had just heard, and
finding precedents for the monologue of the angry, crazy mother in
late Bergman, in Ozu, in Sirk. In a Woody Allen movie Noam
Chomsky or Marshall McLuhan, or maybe nowadays it would be
Gurumayi or Deepak Chopra, would have stepped out from behind a
potted palm and offered a few words of unctuous, polished
commentary. The mother’s plight would briefly be the subject of an
agonized Woody meditation—was she delusional all day or only at
mealtimes? What medication was she on and were its side effects
properly labeled on the bottle? What did it mean that she was
possibly planning to fool around with not one but two major icons?
What would Freud say about this unusual sex triangle? What did this
woman’s equal need for gift-wrapped possessions and the salvation of
her immortal soul tell us about her? What did it tell us about
America?
Also, if those were real men in the room with her, who were they?
Maybe killers on the run, holing up in this poor bourbon-soaked lady’s
kitchen? Was she actually in danger? Alternatively, as open-minded
thinkers, should we not allow the possibility, at least theoretically, of

a genuine double miracle having occurred? In which case, what kind
of Christmas present would Jesus ask Santa for? And, okay, so the Son
of God was in charge of the tuna, but would there be enough meatloaf
to go around?
To all of this Mariel Hemingway would pay careful but vapid
attention; then, equally swiftly, it would be forgotten forever. In a
Woody Allen movie the scene would have been shot in black-and-
white, that most unreal of processes, which had come to stand for
realism, integrity, and art. But the world is in color and is less well
scripted than the movies. Malik Solanka turned around sharply,
opened his mouth to remonstrate, and found himself looking at Mila
and her quarterback centurion of a boyfriend. By thinking of her he
had conjured them up. And behind them stood—leaned, hunched,
squatted, posed—the rest of the indolent stoop troop.
They looked gorgeous, Solanka conceded; their daytime Hilfiger
uniform had been sloughed off to reveal a very different, preppier
style based on Calvin’s classic white-and-tan summerwear, and they
all wore shades in spite of the hour. There was a commercial playing
in the multiplexes in which a group of fashionable vampires—thanks
to Buffy on TV, vampires were hot—sat on a dune in their Ray-Bans
and waited for the dawn. The one who had forgotten his shades was
fried when the sun’s rays hit him and his comrades laughed as he
exploded, baring their fangs. HA-ha-ha-HA. Perhaps, thought
Professor Solanka, Mila & Co. were vampires and he was the fool
without the protection. Except, of course, that that would mean he
was a vampire, too, a refugee from death, able to defy the laws of
time…. Mila removed her sunglasses and looked him provocatively in
the eye, and at once he remembered who it was that she resembled.
“What do you know, it’s Mr. Garbo, who vants to be alone,” the
peroxide centurion was saying, nastily, indicating that he was ready
for all the trouble creaky old Professor Solanka cared to put his way.
But Malik was trapped by Mila’s gaze. “Oh, my,” he said. “Oh, my,
excuse me, it’s Little Brain. Excuse me, but it’s my doll.” The giant
centurion found this to be an opaque, and therefore objectionable
utterance, and indeed, in Solanka’s manner there was something more
than surprise; something bilious, almost hostile, something that might
have been disgust. “Take it easy, Greta,” the big young man said,
putting the palm of an enormous hand against Solanka’s chest and
applying an impressive amount of pressure; Solanka staggered

backward and hit a wall.
But the young woman called off her attack dog. “It’s okay, Ed.
Eddie, really, it’s fine.” Just then, mercifully, the line began to move
rapidly. Malik Solanka rushed forward into the auditorium and sat
down at some distance from the vampire group. As the lights went
down he saw those piercing green eyes looking intently at him across
the art-house crowd.

4
He stayed out all night, but there was no peace to be found, even
when walking through the dead of night, much less in the already
bustling hour after the dawn. There was no dead of night. He could
not remember his exact route, had the impression of having gone
across town and back on or around Broadway, but he could remember
the sheer volume of the white and colored noise. He could remember
the noise dancing in abstract shapes before his red-rimmed eyes. The
coat of his linen suit weighed heavily, damply, on his shoulders, yet in
the name of rectitude, of how things should be done, he kept it on;
also his straw Panama hat. The noise of the city increased almost
daily, or perhaps it was his sensitivity to that noise which was being
turned up to the screaming point. Garbage trucks like giant
cockroaches moved through the city, roaring. He was never out of
earshot of a siren, an alarm, a large vehicle’s reverse-gear bleeps, the
beat of some unbearable music.
The hours went by. Kieslowski’s characters stayed with him. What
were the roots of our actions? Two brothers, estranged from each
other and from their dead father, were almost deranged by the power
of his priceless stamp collection. A man was told he was impotent and
found he could not bear the idea of his loving wife having a sexual
future without him. Mysteries drive us all. We only glimpse their
veiled faces, but their power pushes us onward, toward darkness. Or
into the light.
As he turned into his street, even the buildings began to speak to
him in the sonorous manner of the supremely confident, of the rulers
of the world. The School of the Blessed Sacrament did its proselytizing
in Latin carved in stone.
PARENTES CATHOLICOS HORTAMUR UT DILECTAE PROLI SUAE
. The sentiment struck no
EDUCATIONEM CHRISTIANAM ET CATHOLICAM PROCURANT

responsive chord in Solanka. Next door, a more fortune-cookie-ish
sentiment inscribed in gilded letters rang out from a mighty DeMille-
Assyrian entrance.
IF FRATERNAL LOVE HELD ALL MEN BOUND HOW BEAUTIFUL THE WORLD
. Three quarters of a century ago this edifice, garishly
WOULD BE
handsome in the city’s brashest manner, had been dedicated, on the
cornerstone, “to Pythianism,” without any embarrassment at the clash
of Greek and Mesopotamian metaphors. Such plundering and
jumbling of the storehouse of yesterday’s empires, this melting pot or
métissage of past power, was the true indicator of present might.
Pytho was the ancient name of Delphi, home of the Python, who
wrestled Apollo; and, more famously, of the Delphic Oracle, the
Pythia being the prophesying priestess there, a creature of frenzies
and ecstasies. Solanka could not imagine that this was the meaning of
“Pythian” the builders intended: dedicated to convulsions and
epilepsies. Nor could so epic a house be intended for the humble—the
grandly, mightily humble—practice of poetry. (Pythian verse is poetry
written in the dactylic hexameter.) Some general Apollonian reference
was probably intended, Apollo in both his musical and athletic
incarnations. From the sixth century Before the Common Era, the
Pythian games, one of the great quartet of Panhellenic festivals, had
been held in the third year of the Olympic cycle. There were musical
contests as well as sporting ones, and the great battle of the god and
the snake was also re-created. Maybe some scrap of this would have
been known to those who had built this shrine to half-knowledge, this
temple dedicated to the belief that ignorance, if backed up by
sufficient dollars, became wisdom. The temple of Boobus Apollo.
To the devil with this classical mishmash, Professor Solanka silently
exclaimed. For a greater deity was all around him: America, in the
highest hour of its hybrid, omnivorous power. America, to which he
had come to erase himself. To be free of attachment and so also of
anger, fear, and pain. Eat me, Professor Solanka silently prayed. Eat
me, America, and give me peace.
Across the street from Pythia’s phony Assyrian palace, the city’s
best simulacrum of a Viennese Kaffeehaus was just opening its doors.
Here the Times and Herald Tribune could be found inserted into
wooden rails. Solanka went inside, drank strong coffee, and allowed
himself to join in this most transient of cities’ eternal imitation game.
In his now disheveled linen suit and straw Panama, he could pass for
one of the more down-and-out habitués of the Café Hawelka on

Dorotheergasse. In New York nobody looked too carefully, and few
people’s eyes were trained to the old European subtleties. The
unstarched collar of the sweat-stained white shirt from Banana
Republic, the dusty brown sandals, the straggly badgerish beard
(neither carefully clipped nor delicately pomaded) struck no false
notes here. Even his name, had he ever been obliged to give it,
sounded vaguely Mitteleuropäische. What a place, he thought. A city of
half-truths and echoes that somehow dominates the earth. And its
eyes, emerald green, staring into your heart.
Approaching the counter with its refrigerated display of the great
cakes of Austria, he passed over the excellent-looking Sacher gâteau
and asked, instead, for a piece of Linzertorte, receiving in response a
look of perfect Hispanic incomprehension, which obliged him
exasperatedly to point. Then finally he was able to sip and read.
The morning papers were full of the publication of the report on the
human genome. They were calling it the best version yet of the
“bright book of life,” a phrase variously used to describe the Bible and
the Novel; even though this new brightness was not a book at all but
an electronic message posted on the Internet, a code written in four
amino acids, and Professor Solanka wasn’t good with codes, had never
even managed to learn elementary pig Latin, let alone semaphore or
the now defunct Morse, apart from what everybody knew. Dit dit dit
dah dah dah dit dit dit. Help. Or, in Iglatinpay, elp-hay. Everyone was
speculating about the miracles that would follow the genome triumph,
for example the extra limbs we could decide to grow for ourselves to
solve the problem of how at a buffet dinner to hold a plate and a
wineglass and eat at the same time; but to Malik the only two
certainties were, first, that whatever discoveries were made would
come too late to be of any use to him and, second, that this book—
which changed everything, which transformed the philosophical
nature of our being, which contained a quantitative change in our
self-knowledge so immense as to be a qualititative change as well—
was one he would never be able to read.
While human beings had been excluded from this degree of
understanding, they could console themselves that they were all in the
same bog of ignorance together. Now that Solanka knew that someone
somewhere knew what he would never know, and was additionally
quite aware that what was known was vitally important to know, he
felt the dull irritation, the slow anger, of the fool. He felt like a drone,

or a worker ant. He felt like one of the shuffling thousands in the old
movies of Chaplin and Fritz Lang, the faceless ones doomed to break
their bodies on society’s wheel while knowledge exercised power over
them from on high. The new age had new emperors and he would be
their slave.
“Sir. Sir.” A young woman was standing over him, uncomfortably
close, wearing a pencil-thin knee-length navy blue skirt and a smart
white blouse. Her fair hair was pulled back severely. “I’m going to ask
you to leave, sir.” The Hispanic counter staff were tensed, ready to
intervene. Professor Solanka was truly perplexed: “What appears to be
the trouble, Miss?”
“What is the trouble, sir, not what ‘appears,’ is that you have been
using bad language, obscene terms, and so loudly. Speaking the
unspeakable, I should say. You have been shouting it out. And now
amazingly you ask what is the trouble. Sir, you are the trouble. You
will go now, please.” At last, he thought even as he was receiving this
verbal bum’s rush, a moment of genuineness. One Austrian is here, at
least. He rose, pulled his lumpy coat around him, and left, tipping his
hat, though not her. There was no explanation for the woman’s
extraordinary speech. When he was still sleeping with Eleanor, she
would accuse him of snoring. He would be halfway between
wakefulness and sleep and she would push at him and say, Turn on
your side. But he was conscious, he wanted to say, he could hear her
speak, and therefore, had he been making any sort of noise himself,
he would have heard that, too. After a while she gave up persecuting
him and he slept soundly. Until the time when once again he didn’t.
No, not that again, not right now. Right now when, once again, he
was conscious, and all manner of noise was in his ears.
As he approached his apartment he saw a workman hanging in a
cradle outside his window, doing repairs to the exterior of the
building and, in loud, rolling Punjabi, shouting instructions and dirty
jokes to his partner smoking a beedi on the sidewalk below. Malik
Solanka at once telephoned his landlords the Jays, wealthy organic
farmers who spent summers upstate with their fruits and vegetables,
and made emphatic complaints. This brutish din was intolerable. The
lease stated clearly that the work would be not only external but
quiet. Furthermore, the toilet didn’t work properly; small pieces of
fecal matter bobbed back up after he flushed. In the mood he was in,
this caused him a degree of distress disproportionate to the problem,

and he spoke vehemently of his feelings to Mr. Simon Jay, the gentle,
bemused owner of the apartment, who had lived there happily for
thirty years with his wife, Ada, had raised his children in these rooms,
toilet-trained them on these very water closets, and had found every
day of his occupancy a simple and unqualified delight. Solanka wasn’t
interested. A second flushing invariably dealt with the trouble, he
conceded, but that was not acceptable. A plumber must come, and
soon.
But the plumber, like the Punjabi construction workers, was a
talker, an octogenarian named Joseph Schlink. Erect, wiry, with
Albert Einstein white hair and Bugs Bunny front teeth, Joseph came
through the door impelled by a form of defensive pridefulness to get
his retaliation in first. “Don’t tell me, eh?, I’m too old you’re maybe
thinking, or maybe not, mind reading I make no claim on, but a better
plumber in the tristate area you von’t find, also fit like a fiddle or I’m
no Schlink.” The thick, unimproved accent of the transplanted
German Jew. “My name amuses you? So laugh. The chentleman, Mr.
Simon, calls me Kitchen Schlink, to his Mrs. Ada I’m also Bathroom
Schlink, let zem call me Schlink the Bismarck, it von’t bother me, it’s
a free country, but in my business I haff no use for humor. In Latin,
humor is a dampness from the eye. This is to quote Heinrich Böll,
Nobel Prize nineteen hundred seventy-two. In his line of vork he
alleges it’s helpful, but in my job it leads to mistakes. No damp eyes
on me, eh?, and no chokes in my tool bag. Chust I like to do the vork
prompt, receive payment also prompt, you follow me here. Like the
shvartzer says in the movie, show me the money. After a war spent
plugging leaks on a Nazi U-boat, you think I can’t fix up your little
doofus here?”
An educated plumber with a tale to tell, Solanka realized with a
sinking feeling. (He refused the tempting “Schlinking.”) This when he
was almost too tired to remain upright. The city was teaching him a
lesson. There was to be no escape from intrusion, from noise. He had
crossed the ocean to separate his life from life. He had come in search
of silence and found a loudness greater than the one he left behind.
The noise was inside him now. He was afraid to go into the room
where the dolls were. Maybe they would begin to speak to him, too.
Maybe they would come to life and chatter and gossip and twitter
until he had to shut them up once and for all, until he was obliged by
the everywhereness of life, by its bloody-minded refusal to back off,

by the sheer goddamn unbearable head-bursting volume of the third
millennium, to rip off their fucking heads.
Breathe. He did a slow circular breathing exercise. Very well. He
would accept the plumber’s garrulity as a penance. Dealing with it
would be an exercise in humility and self-control. This was a Jewish
plumber who had escaped the death camps by going underwater. His
skills as a plumber meant the crew had protected him, they hung on
to him until the day of their surrender, when he walked free and came
to America, leaving behind, or, to put it another way, bringing along
his ghosts.
Schlink had told the story a thousand times before, a thousand
thousand. Out it came in its set phrases and cadences. “You can chust
imagine it. A plumber in a submarine is already a little comic, but on
top of that you haff the irony, the psychologische complexity. I don’t
haff to spell it out. But I stand before you. I haff liffed my life. I haff
kept, eh?, my appointment.”
A novelistic life, Solanka was forced to concede. Filmic, too. A life
that could be a successful mid-budget feature film. Dustin Hoffman
maybe as the plumber, and as the U-boat captain, who? Klaus Maria
Brandauer, Rutger Hauer. But probably both parts would go to
younger actors whose names Malik didn’t know. Even this was fading
with the years, the movie knowledge in which he had always taken
such pride. “You should write this down and register it,” he told
Schlink, speaking too loudly. “It’s as they say high-concept. U-571
meets Schindler’s List. Maybe a double-edged comedy like Benigni’s.
No, tougher than Benigni’s. Call it Jewboat.” Schlink stiffened; and,
before giving his full, injured attention to the toilet, turned on
Solanka his mournful, disgusted gaze. “No humor,” he said. “As I haff
already told you. I am sorry to say that you are a disrespectful man.”
And in the kitchen downstairs, the Polish cleaner Wislawa had
arrived. She came with the sublet, refused to do the ironing, left
cobwebs untouched in corners, and after she left you could make a
line in the dust on the mantelpiece. On the plus side she had a
pleasant temperament and a big, gummy smile. However, if you gave
her half a chance, or even if you didn’t, she too would plunge into
narrative. The dangerous, unsuppressable power of the tale. Wislawa,
a devout Catholic, had had her faith profoundly shaken by an
ostensibly true story told by her husband who got it from his uncle
who got it from a trusted friend who knew the person concerned, a

certain Ryszard, who was for many years the personal driver of the
pope, this of course before he was elected to the Holy See. When it
was time for that election, Ryszard the chauffeur drove the future
pope all the way across Europe, a Europe standing on the very hinge
of history, on the cusp of great changes. Ah, the comradeship of the
two men, the simple human pleasures and annoyances of such a long
journey! And then they arrived in the Holy City, the man of the cloth
was walled up with his peers and the driver waited. At last the white
smoke was seen, the cry of habemus papam was raised, and then there
was a cardinal all in red, descending an enormous, wide flight of
yellow stone steps slowly, and crabwise, like a character in a Fellini
movie, and right at the bottom of the steps waited the smoky little car
and its excited driver. The cardinal came mopping his brow and
puffing up to the driver’s window, which Ryszard had wound down in
anticipation of the news. And so the cardinal was able to deliver the
personal message of the new, the Polish pope:
“You’re fired.”
Solanka, not a Catholic, not a believer, not much interested in the
story even if true, not remotely convinced that it was true, not
anxious to referee the cleaner’s wrestling match with the imp of doubt
who presently had her immortal soul in a stranglehold, would have
preferred not to speak to Wislawa at all, would have wished her to
glide around the apartment rendering it spotless and habitable,
leaving the laundry done, pressed and folded. But in spite of the
expenditure of over eight thousand dollars a month on the sublet,
cleaner included, fate had dealt him a pretty much unplayable hand.
On the topic of Wislawa’s imperiled reservation in heaven, he most
earnestly did not wish to comment; yet she returned to the theme
constantly. “How to kiss the ring of a Holy Father like that one, he is
of my own people, but O God, to send a cardinal, and just like that, so
lightly, to give the sack. And if not the Holy Father, then how his
priests, and if not the priests, then how confession and absolution, and
here are opening below my feets the iron gates of Hell.”
Professor Solanka, his fuse shortening, grew daily more tempted to
say something unkind. Paradise, he considered telling Wislawa, was a
place to which only the coolest and highest in New York possessed the
secret number. As a gesture to the democratic spirit a few ordinary
mortals were allowed in, too; they would arrive wearing properly
reverential expressions, the expressions of those who know that they

have truly, just this once, lucked out. The wide-eyed thrilledness of
this bridge-and-tunnel mob would add to the jaded satisfaction of the
in-crowd, and of course of the Proprietor himself. It was extremely
improbable, however, the laws of supply and demand being what they
were, that Wislawa would turn out to be one of the fortunate few in
the public seats, the sun-kissed bleachers of eternity.
This and much else Solanka restrained himself from saying. Instead
he pointed out cobwebs and dust, to be answered only by that gummy
smile and a gesture of Krakóvian incomprehension. “I work for Mrs.
Jay long time.” This answer dealt, in Wislawa’s view, with all
complaints. After the second week Solanka gave up asking, wiped
down the mantels himself, got rid of the cobwebs, and took his shirts
to the good Chinese laundry just around the corner on Columbus. But
her soul, her nonexistent soul, continued intermittently to insist on his
pastoral, his uncaring care.
Solanka’s head began to spin lightly. Sleep-deprived, wild of
thought, he headed for his bedroom. Behind him through the thick,
humid air he could hear his dolls, alive now and jabbering behind
their closed door, each loudly telling the other his or her “back-story,”
the tale of how she or he came to be. The imaginary tale, which he,
Solanka, had made up for each of them. If a doll had no back-story, its
market value was low. And as with dolls so with human beings. This
was what we brought with us on our journey across oceans, beyond
frontiers, through life: our little storehouse of anecdote and what-
happened-next, our private once-upon-a-time. We were our stories,
and when we died, if we were very lucky, our immortality would be
in another such tale.
This was the great truth against which Malik Solanka had set his
face. It was precisely his back-story that he wanted to destroy. Never
mind where he came from or who, when little Malik could barely
walk, had deserted his mother and so given him permission, years
later, to do the same. To the devil with stepfathers and pushes on the
top of a young boy’s head and dressing up and weak mothers and
guilty Desdemonas and the whole useless baggage of blood and tribe.
He had come to America as so many before him to receive the benison
of being Ellis Islanded, of starting over. Give me a name, America,
make of me a Buzz or Chip or Spike. Bathe me in amnesia and clothe
me in your powerful unknowing. Enlist me in your J. Crew and hand
me my mouse ears! No longer a historian but a man without histories

let me be. I’ll rip my lying mother tongue out of my throat and speak
your broken English instead. Scan me, digitize me, beam me up. If the
past is the sick old Earth, then, America, be my flying saucer. Fly me
to the rim of space. The moon’s not far enough.
But still through the ill-fitting bedroom window the stories came
pouring in. What would Saul and Gayfryd—“she became the Stanley
Cup of trophy wives when trophy wives were as common as
Porsches”—do now that they were down to their last $40 or $50
million? … And hurray, Muffie Potter Ashton’s pregnant! … And
wasn’t that Paloma Huffington de Woody getting friendly with S.J.
“Yitzhak” Perelman on Gibson’s Beach, Sagaponack? … And did you
hear about Griffin and his great big beautiful Dahl? … What, Nina’s
planning to launch a perfume? But, my dear, she’s so over, she’s
starting to smell like roadkill…. And Meg and Dennis, just moved to
Splitsville, are squabbling over who gets not just the CD collection but
the guru…. Which big-name Hollywood actress has been whispering
that a new young star’s elevation has Sapphic origins involving a
major studio boss? … And have you read Karen’s latest, Thin Thighs for
Life? … And Lotus, coolest of niteries, nixed O. J. Simpson’s birthday
bash! Only in America, kids, only in America!
With his hands over his ears, and still wearing his ruined linen suit,
Professor Solanka slept.

5
The telephone woke him at noon. Jack Rhinehart, the phone-smasher,
invited Professor Solanka over to watch the Holland-Yugoslavia Euro
2000 quarterfinal on Pay-Per-View. Malik accepted, surprising them
both. “Glad to get you out of that mole hole,” Rhinehart said. “But if
you plan to root for the Serbs, stay home.” Solanka felt refreshed
today: less burdened, and, yes, in need of a friend. Even in these days
of his retreat, he still had such needs. A holy man up a Himalaya
could do without soccer on TV. Solanka was not so pure of heart. He
shed the slept-in suit, showered, dressed quickly, and rode downtown.
When he climbed out of the cab at Rhinehart’s building, a woman in
shades rushed into it, jostling him, and he had, for the second time in
as many days, the unsettling feeling that the stranger was someone he
knew. In the elevator he identified her: the squeeze-me-and-I-talk
doll-woman whose name was the contemporary byword for tacky
infidelity, Our Lady of the Thong. “Oh Jesus, Monica,” Rhinehart said.
“I run into her all the time. Around here it used to be Naomi
Campbell, Courtney Love, Angelina Jolie. Now it’s Minnie Mouth.
There goes the neighborhood, right?”
Rhinehart had been trying to get divorced for years, but his wife
had made it her life’s work to deny him. They had been a beautiful,
perfectly contrasted ebony-and-ivory couple, she long, languid, pale,
he equally long, but a pitch-black African-American, and a
hyperactive one at that, a hunter, fisherman, weekend driver of very
fast cars, marathon runner, gym rat, tennis player, and, lately, thanks
to the rise of Tiger Woods, an obsessive golfer too. From the earliest
days of their marriage Solanka had wondered how a man with so
much energy would handle a woman with so little. They had married
splashily in London—Rhinehart had for most of his war years
preferred to base himself outside America—and, in a ceramic-and-

mosaic palazzo rented for the occasion from a charity that ran it as a
halfway house for the mentally troubled, Malik Solanka had made a
best-man’s speech whose tone was spectacularly misjudged—at one
point, doing his then-celebrated W. C. Fields impression, he compared
the risks of the union to those of “jumping out of an airplane from
twenty thousand feet and trying to land on a bale of hay”—but
prophetically apt. Like most of their circle, however, he had
underestimated Bronislawa Rhinehart in one essential respect: she had
the sticking power of a leech.
(At least there were no children, Solanka thought when his,
everybody’s, misgivings about the union proved justified. He thought
of Asmaan on the telephone. “Where’ve you gone, Daddy, are you
here?” He thought of himself long ago. At least Rhinehart didn’t have
to deal with that, the slow deep pain of a child.)
Rhinehart had done her wrong, no denying that. His response to
marriage had been to begin an affair, and his response to the difficulty
of maintaining a clandestine relationship had been to initiate another
one, and when both his mistresses insisted that he regularize his life,
when they both insisted on occupying pole position on the grid of his
personal auto rally, he at once managed to find room for yet another
woman in his noisy, overcrowded bed. Minnie Mouth was perhaps not
such an inappropriate local icon. After a few years of this, and a move
from Holland Park to the West Village, Bronislawa—what was it with
all these Poles who kept cropping up in various positions?—moved
out of the apartment on Hudson Street and used the courts to force
Rhinehart to maintain her in high style in a junior suite at a tony
Upper East Side hotel, with major credit card spending power. Instead
of divorcing him, she told him sweetly, she intended to make the rest
of his life a misery, and bleed him slowly dry. “And don’t run out of
money, honey,” she advised. “Because then I’ll have to come after
what you really like.”
What Rhinehart really liked was food and drink. He owned a little
saltbox cottage in the Springs with, at the back of the garden, a shed
that he’d equipped as a wine-storage facility and insured for
considerably more money than the cottage, in which the most
valuable object was the six-burner Viking range. Rhinehart these days
was a turbocharged gastronome, his freezer full of the carcasses of
dead birds awaiting their reduction—their elevation!—to jus. In his
refrigerator the delicacies of the earth jostled for space: larks’ tongues,

emus’ testicles, dinosaurs’ eggs. Yet when, at his friend’s wedding,
Solanka had spoken to Rhinehart’s mother and sister of the exquisite
pleasures of dining at Jack’s table, he had bewildered and amazed
them both. “Jack, cook? This Jack?” asked his mother, disbelievingly
pointing at her son. “Jack I know couldn’t open a can of beans less’n I
showed him how to hold the can opener.” “Jack I know,” his sister
added, “couldn’t boil a pan of water without burnin’ it up.” “Jack I
know,” his mother concluded, definitively, “couldn’t find the kitchen
without a seein’-eye dog leadin’ the way.”
This same Jack could now hold his own with the great chefs of the
world, and Solanka marveled, once again, at the human capacity for
automorphosis, the transformation of the self, which Americans
claimed as their own special, defining characteristic. It wasn’t.
Americans were always labeling things with the America logo:
American Dream, American Buffalo, American Graffiti, American
Psycho, American Tune. But everyone else had such things too, and in
the rest of the world the addition of a nationalist prefix didn’t seem to
add much meaning. English Psycho, Indian Graffiti, Australian
Buffalo, Egyptian Dream, Chilean Tune. America’s need to make
things American, to own them, thought Solanka, was the mark of an
odd insecurity. Also, of course, and more prosaically, capitalist.
Bronislawa’s threat to Rhinehart’s booze hoard found its mark. He
gave up visiting war zones and began to write, instead, lucrative
profiles of the super-powerful, super-famous, and super-rich for their
weekly and monthly magazines of choice: chronicling their loves,
their deals, their wild children, their personal tragedies, their tell-all
maids, their murders, their surgeries, their good works, their evil
secrets, their games, their feuds, their sexual practices, their
meanness, their generosity, their groomers, their walkers, their cars.
Then he gave up writing poetry and turned his hand, instead, to
novels set in the same world, the unreal world that ruled the real one.
He often compared his subject to that of the Roman Suetonius. “These
are the lives of today’s Caesars in their Palaces,” he’d taken to telling
Malik Solanka and anyone else who was prepared to listen. “They
sleep with their sisters, murder their mothers, make their horses into
senators. It’s mayhem in there, in the Palaces. But guess what? If
you’re outside, if you’re the mob in the street, if, that is, you’re us, all
you see is that the Palaces are the Palaces, all the money and power is
in there, an’ when dey snaps dey fingers, boy, de planet it start

jumpin’.” (It was Rhinehart’s habit from time to time to slip into an
Eddie Murphy-meets-Br’er Rabbit manner, for emphasis or fun.) “Now
that I’m writing about this billionairess in a coma or those moneyed
kids who iced their parents, now that I’m on this diamond beat, I’m
seeing more of the truth of things than I did in fucking Desert Storm
or some Sniper’s Alley doorway in Sarajevo, and believe me it’s just as
easy, easier even, to step on a fucking land mine and get yourself
blown to bits.”
These days, whenever Professor Solanka heard his friend deliver a
version of this not infrequent speech, he detected a strengthening note
of insincerity. Jack had gone to war—as a noted young radical
journalist of color with a distinguished record of investigating
American racism and a consequent string of powerful enemies—
nursing many of the same fears expressed a generation earlier by the
young Cassius Clay: most afraid, that is, of the bullet in the back, of
death by what was not then known as “friendly fire.” In the years that
followed, however, Jack witnessed, over and over again, the tragic
gift of his species for ignoring the notion of ethnic solidarity: the
brutalities of blacks against blacks, Arabs against Arabs, Serbs against
Bosnians and Croats. Ex-Yugo, Iran-Iraq, Rwanda, Eritrea,
Afghanistan. The exterminations in Timor, the communal massacres in
Meerut and Assam, the endless color-blind cataclysm of the earth.
Somewhere in those years he became capable of close friendships with
his white colleagues from the U.S.A. His label changed. He stopped
hyphenating himself and became, simply, an American.
Solanka, who was sensitive to the undertones of such rebrandings,
understood that for Jack there was much disappointment involved in
this transformation, even much anger directed at what white racists
would eagerly have called “his own kind,” and that such anger turns
all too easily against the angry party. Jack stayed away from America,
married a white woman, and moved in bien-pensant circles in which
race was “not an issue”: that is, almost everyone was white. Back in
New York, separated from Bronislawa, he continued to date what he
called “the daughters of Paleface.” The joke couldn’t hide the truth.
These days Jack was more or less the only black man Jack knew, and
Solanka was probably the only brown one. Rhinehart had crossed a
line.
And now, perhaps, was crossing another one. Jack’s new line of
work gave him an all-access pass to the Palaces, and he loved it. He

wrote about this gilded milieu with waspish venom, he tore it apart
for its crassness, its blindness, its mindlessness, its depthless
surfaceness, but the invitations from the Warren Redstones and Ross
Buffetts, from the Schuylers and Muybridges and Van Burens and
Kleins, from Ivana Opalberg-Speedvogel and Marlalee Booken
Candell, just kept on coming, because the guy was hooked and they
knew it. He was their house nigger and it suited them to keep him
around, as, Solanka suspected, a sort of pet. “Jack Rhinehart” was a
usefully non-black specific name, carrying none of the ghetto
connotations of a Tupac, Vondie, Anfernee, or Rah’schied (these were
days of innovative naming and creative orthography in the African-
American community). In the Palaces, people were not named in this
way. Men were not called Biggie or Hammer or Shaquille or Snoop or
Dre, nor were women named Pepa or LeftEye or D: Neece. No Kunta
Kintes or Shaznays in America’s golden halls; where, however, a man
might be nicknamed Stash or Club by way of a sexual compliment,
and the women might be Blaine or Brooke or Horne, and anything
you wanted was probably simmering between satin sheets just behind
the door of that bedroom suite over there, the one with the door
standing ever so slightly ajar.
Yes, women, of course. Women were Rhinehart’s addiction and
Achilles’ heel, and this was the Valley of the Dollybirds. No: it was the
mountain, the Everest of the Dollybirds, the fabled Dollybird Horn of
Plenty. Send these women his way, the Christies and Christys and
Kristens and Chrystèles, the giantesses about whom most of the planet
was busy fantasizing, with whom even Castro and Mandela were
happy to pose, and Rhinehart would lie down (or sit up) and beg.
Behind the infinite layers of Rhinehart’s cool was this ignoble fact: he
had been seduced, and his desire to be accepted into this white man’s
club was the dark secret he could not confess to anyone, perhaps not
even to himself. And these are the secrets from which the anger
comes. In this dark bed the seeds of fury grow. And although Jack’s
act was armor-plated, although his mask never slipped, Solanka was
sure he could see, in his friend’s blazing eyes, the self-loathing fire of
his rage. It took him a long while to concede that Jack’s suppressed
fury was the mirror of his own.
Rhinehart’s annual income was currently in the median-to-upper
range of the six-figure bracket, but he claimed, only half jokingly, to
be frequently pressed for cash. Bronislawa had exhausted three judges

and four lawyers, discovering on her journey a Jarndyce-like gift—
even, Solanka thought, an Indian genius—for legal obstruction and
delay. Of this she had become (perhaps literally) insanely proud. She
had learned how to twist and thicken the plot. As a practicing
Catholic, she initially announced that she wouldn’t sue Rhinehart for
divorce even though he was the devil in disguise. The devil, she
explained to her attorneys, was short, white, wore a green frock coat,
a pigtail, and high-heeled slippers, and strongly resembled the
philosopher Immanuel Kant. But he was capable of taking any form, a
column of smoke, a reflection in a mirror, or a long, black, frenziedly
energetic husband. “My revenge on Satan,” she told the bemused
lawyers, “will be to keep him the prisoner of my ring.” In New York,
where the legal grounds for divorce were few and rigorously defined
and the no-fault split didn’t exist, Rhinehart’s case against his wife
was weak. He tried persuasion, bribery, threats. She stood firm and
brought no suit. Eventually he did begin a court action, against which
she brilliantly and determinedly offered a stupendous, almost mystical
inaction. The ferocity of her passive resistance would have impressed,
probably, Gandhi. She got away with a decade-long sequence of
psychological and physical “breakdowns” that the cheesiest daytime
soap would have found excessive, and had been in contempt of court
forty-seven times, without ever going to jail, because of Rhinehart’s
unwillingness to ask the court to act against her. So in his middle
forties he was still paying for the sins of his middle thirties.
Meanwhile he continued to be promiscuous, and to praise the city for
its bounty. “For a single man with a few bucks in the bank and an
inclination to party, this little piece of real estate stolen from those
Mannahattoes is the happy hunting grounds, no less.”
But he wasn’t single. And in eleven years he could surely have, for
example, moved across the state border to Connecticut, where no-fault
divorce did exist, or found the six or so weeks required to establish
legal residence in Nevada and cut this Gordian knot. This he had not
done. Once, in his cups, he had confided to Solanka that for all the
city’s generosity in providing the grateful male with multiple-choice
options in dating, there was a snag. “They all want the big words,” he
protested. “They want forever, serious, heavy, long-term. If it’s not
grand passion, it’s not happening. This is why they’re so lonely. There
aren’t enough men to go around, but they won’t shop if they can’t
buy. They aren’t open to the concept of the rental, the time share.

They’re fucked-up, man. They’re looking for real estate in a market
that’s crazily high, but they know it’ll be going even higher soon.” In
this version of the truth, Rhinehart’s incomplete divorce bought him
breathing space, lebensraum. Women would try him out, for he was
beautiful and charming, and, until they got sick of the endlessness of
it, would wait.
There was also, however, another possible reading of the situation.
Up where Rhinehart now mostly lived, on the Big Rock Candy
Mountain, the Diamond as Big as the Ritz, he was literally outclassed
and, the moment he fell into the trap of wanting what was on offer up
there on Olympus, also out of his depth. He was, remember, their toy,
and while girls will play with toys, they don’t marry them. So maybe
being half-married, stuck in this endlessly divorcing condition, was
also a way for Rhinehart to kid himself. In reality there probably
wasn’t much of a line forming to wait for him. Single, and aging—he
had turned forty now—he was almost out of time. Almost—the killer
word for any ambitious ladykiller—ineligible.
Malik Solanka, a decade and a half older than Jack Rhinehart and a
dozen dozen times more inhibited, had often watched and listened
with envious wonder as Rhinehart went about his life’s business in so
unshamedly male a manner. The combat zones, the women, the
dangerous sports, the life of a man of deeds. Even the now-abandoned
poetry had been of the virile Ted Hughes school. Often Solanka had
felt that in spite of his seniority in years, it was Rhinehart who was
the master and he the student. A mere maker of dolls must bow his
head before a wind surfer, a sky diver, a bungee jumper, a rock
climber, a man whose idea of fun it was to go to Hunter College twice
a week and run up and down forty flights of stairs. Being a boy—but
this was getting too close to his forbidden, obliterated back-story—
was a skill Malik Solanka had not been allowed to acquire in full.
Patrick Kluivert scored for the Dutch, and both Solanka and
Rhinehart jumped to their feet, waving bottles of Mexican beer and
shouting. Then the doorbell rang and Rhinehart said, without
preamble, “Oh, by the way, I think I’m in love. I invited her to join us.
Hope that’s okay.” This was not an original line. Traditionally it
signaled the arrival of what Rhinehart would very privately call the
new waitress. What followed, however, was new. “She’s one of yours,”
Rhinehart said over his shoulder as he got up to open the door.
“Indian diaspora. One hundred years of servitude. In the eighteen

nineties her ancestors went as indentured laborers to work in what’s-
its-name. Lilliput-Blefuscu. Now they run the sugarcane production
and the economy would fall apart without them, but you know how it
is wherever Indians go. People don’t like them. Dey works too hard
and dey keeps to deyself and dey acts so dang uppity. Ask anyone. Ask
Idi Amin.”
On the television the Dutch were playing sublime soccer, but the
match had suddenly become an irrelevance. Malik Solanka was
thinking that the woman who had just entered Rhinehart’s living
room was by some distance the most beautiful Indian woman—the
most beautiful woman—he had ever seen. Compared to the
intoxicating effect of her presence, the bottle of Dos Equis in his left
hand was wholly alcohol free. Other women in the world were just
under six feet tall, with waist-length black hair, he supposed; and no
doubt such smoky eyes were also to be found elsewhere, as also other
lips as richly cushioned, other necks as slender, other legs as
interminably long. On other women, too, there might be breasts like
these. So what? In the words of an idiotic song from the fifties,
“Bernardine,” sung in one of his raunchier moments by his mother’s
favorite recording artist, the Christian conservative Pat Boone: “Your
separate parts are not unknown / but the way you assemble ’em’s all
your own.” Exactly, thought Professor Solanka, drowning. Just exactly
so.
Down the upper part of the woman’s right arm there was an eight-
inch-long herringbone-pattern scar. When she saw him looking at it,
she at once crossed her arms and put her left hand over the injury, not
understanding that it made her more beautiful, that it perfected her
beauty by adding an essential imperfection. By showing that she could
be injured, that such astonishing loveliness could be broken in an
instant, the cicatrice only emphasized what was there, and made one
cherish it—my goodness, Solanka thought, what a word to use about a
stranger!—all the more.
Extreme physical beauty draws all available light toward itself,
becomes a shining beacon in an otherwise darkened world. Why
would one peer into the encircling gloom when one could look at this
kindly flame? Why talk, eat, sleep, work when such effulgence was on
display? Why do anything but look, for the rest of one’s paltry life?
Lumen de lumine. Staring into the sidereal unreality of her beauty,
which wheeled in the room like a galaxy on fire, he was thinking that

if he had been able to wish his ideal woman into being, if he’d had a
magic lamp to rub, this would have been what he’d have wished for.
And, at the same time, while he was mentally congratulating
Rhinehart for breaking away at last from the many daughters of
Paleface, he was also imagining himself with this dark Venus, he was
allowing his own, closed heart to open, and so remembering once
again what he spent much of his life trying to forget: the size of the
crater within him, the hole left by his break with his recent and
remote past, which, just perhaps, the love of such a woman could fill.
Ancient, secret pain welled up in him, pleading to be healed.
“Yeah, sorry ’bout that, buddy” came Rhinehart’s tickled drawl from
the far side of the universe. “She hits most people that way. Can’t help
it. Doesn’t know how to switch it off. Neela, meet my celibate pal
Malik. He’s given up women forever, as you can plainly see.” Jack was
enjoying himself, Solanka noted. He forced himself back into the real
world. “Lucky for all of us that I have,” he finally said, pushing his
mouth into some sort of smile. “Otherwise, I’d have to fight you for
her.” Here’s that old euphony again, he thought: Neela, Mila. Desire is
coming after me, and giving me warnings in rhyme.
She worked as a producer with one of the better independents, and
specialized in documentary programming for television. Right now
she was planning a project that would take her back to her roots.
Things back home in Lilliput-Blefuscu were not good, Neela
explained. People in the West thought of it as a South Sea paradise, a
place for honeymoons and other trysts, but there was trouble brewing.
Relations between the Indo-Lilliputians and the indigenous, ethnic
“Elbee” community—which still made up a majority of the
population, but only just—were deteriorating fast. To highlight the
issues, New York representatives of the opposing factions had both
arranged to hold parades on the same upcoming Sunday. These
manifestations would be small but fervent. The two march routes
were to be widely separated, but it was still a good bet that there
would be some angry clashes. Neela herself was determined to march.
As she talked about the worsening political turbulence in her tiny
patch of the antipodes, Professor Solanka saw the hot blood rising in
her. This conflict was not a small matter for beautiful Neela. She was
still connected to her origins, and Solanka almost envied her for it.
Jack Rhinehart was saying, boyishly, “Great! We’ll all go! Sure we
will! You’ll march for your people, Malik, right? Well, you’ll march

for Neela, anyhow.” Rhinehart’s tone was light: a miscalculation.
Solanka saw Neela stiffen and frown. This wasn’t to be treated as a
game. “Yes,” Solanka said, looking her in the eyes. “I’ll march.”
They settled down to watch the game. More goals came: six in all
for the Netherlands, a late, irrelevant consolation strike for
Yugoslavia. Neela, too, was glad the Dutch had done well. She saw
their black players, uncompetitively but also without false modesty, as
her near equals in gorgeousness. “The Surinamese,” she said,
unknowingly echoing the thoughts of the young Malik Solanka in
Amsterdam all those years ago, “are the living proof of the value of
mixing up the races. Look at them. Edgar Davids, Kluivert, Rijkaard in
the dugout, and, in the good old days, Ruud. The great Gullit. All of
them, métèques. Stir all the races together and you get the most
beautiful people in the world. I want to go,” she added, to nobody in
particular, “soon, to Surinam.” She sprawled across the settee,
throwing one long, leather-clad leg over the arm, and dislodged the
day’s Post. It fell to the floor at Solanka’s feet, and his eye was caught
by the headline: . And below, in smaller type:
CONCRETE KILLER STRIKES AGAIN
Who Was the Man in the Panama Hat? Everything changed at once;
darkness rushed in through the open window, blinding him. His little
rush of excitement, good humor, and lust drained away. He felt
himself trembling, and rose quickly to his feet. “I have to leave,” he
said. “What, the final whistle blows and you’re out of here? Malik,
friend, that just plain ain’t polite.” But Solanka only shook his head at
Rhinehart and headed out through the door, fast. Behind him he
heard Neela talking about the Post headline; she’d picked up the paper
as he left. “Bastard. This stuff is supposed to have stopped, it’s
supposed to be safe now, right,” she was saying. “But, shit, it’s never
over. Here we go again.”

6
“Islam will cleanse this street of godless motherfucker bad drivers,”
the taxi driver screamed at a rival motorist. “Islam will purify this
whole city of Jew pimp assholes like you and your whore roadhog of
a Jew wife too.” All the way up Tenth Avenue the curses continued.
“Infidel fucker of your underage sister, the inferno of Allah awaits you
and your unholy wreck of a motorcar as well.” “Unclean offspring of a
shit-eating pig, try that again and the victorious jihad will crush your
balls in its unforgiving fist.” Malik Solanka, listening in to the
explosive, village-accented Urdu, was briefly distracted from his own
inner turmoil by the driver’s venom. said the card. Majnu
ALI MAJNU
meant beloved. This particular Beloved looked twenty-five or less, a
nice handsome boy, tall and skinny, with a sexy John Travolta quiff,
and here he was living in New York, with a steady job; what had so
comprehensively gotten his goat?
Solanka silently answered his own question. When one is too young
to have accumulated the bruises of one’s own experience, one can
choose to put on, like a hair shirt, the sufferings of one’s world. In this
case, as the Middle East peace process staggered onward and the
outgoing American president, hungry for a breakthrough to buff up
his tarnished legacy, was urging Barak and Arafat to a Camp David
summit conference, Tenth Avenue was perhaps being blamed for the
continued sufferings of Palestine. Beloved Ali was Indian or Pakistani,
but, no doubt out of some misguided collectivist spirit of paranoiac
pan-Islamic solidarity, he blamed all New York road users for the
tribulations of the Muslim world. In between curses, he spoke to his
mother’s brother on the radio—“Yes, Uncle. Yes, carefully, of course,
Uncle. Yes, the car costs money. No, Uncle. Yes, courteously, always,
Uncle, trust me. Yes, best policy. I know”—and also asked Solanka,
sheepishly, for directions. It was the boy’s first day at work in the

mean streets, and he was scared witless. Solanka, himself in a state of
high agitation, treated Beloved gently but did say, as he alighted at
Verdi Square, “Maybe a little less of the blue language, okay, Ali
Majnu? Tone it down. Some customers might be offended. Even those
who don’t understand.”
The boy looked at him blankly. “I, sir? Swearing, sir? When?” This
was odd. “All the way,” Solanka explained. “At everyone within
shouting distance. Motherfucker, Jew, the usual repertoire. Urdu,” he
added, in Urdu, to make things clear, “meri madri zaban hai.” Urdu is
my mother tongue. Beloved blushed, deeply, the color spreading all
the way to his collar line, and met Solanka’s gaze with bewildered,
innocent dark eyes. “Sahib, if you heard it, then it must be so. But, sir,
you see, I am not aware.” Solanka lost patience, turned to go. “It
doesn’t matter,” he said. “Road rage. You were carried away. It’s not
important.” As he walked off along Broadway, Beloved Ali shouted
after him, needily, asking to be understood: “It means nothing, sahib.
Me, I don’t even go to the mosque. God bless America, okay? It’s just
words.”
Yes, and words are not deeds, Solanka allowed, moving off fretfully.
Though words can become deeds. If said in the right place and at the
right time, they can move mountains and change the world. Also, uh-
huh, not knowing what you’re doing—separating deeds from the
words that define them—was apparently becoming an acceptable
excuse. To say “I didn’t mean it” was to erase meaning from your
misdeeds, at least in the opinion of the Beloved Alis of the world.
Could that be so? Obviously, no. No, it simply could not. Many people
would say that even a genuine act of repentance could not atone for a
crime, much less this unexplained blankness—an infinitely lesser
excuse, a mere assertion of ignorance that wouldn’t even register on
any scale of regret. Shockingly, Solanka recognized himself in foolish
young Ali Majnu: the vehemence as well as the blanks in the record.
He did not, however, excuse himself. At Jack Rhinehart’s apartment,
before the poleaxing arrival of Neela Mahendra had changed the
subject, he had been attempting, while concealing the depth of his
perturbation, to confess to Rhinehart something of his fear about the
terrorist anger that kept taking him hostage. Jack, absorbed in the
soccer game, nodded absently. “You must know you’ve always had a
short fuse,” he said. “I mean, you are aware of that, right? You’re
conscious of the number of times you’ve rung people up to apologize

—the number of times you’ve rung me up—the morning after some
little wine-lubricated explosion of yours? The Collected Apologies of
Malik Solanka. I always thought that would make a fine book.
Repetitive, maybe, but with rich comic delights.”
Some years back, the Solankas had vacationed at the cottage in the
Springs with Rhinehart and his “waitress” of the moment, a petite
Southern belle—from Lookout Mountain, Tennessee, scene of the Civil
War’s “Battle Above the Clouds”—who was a dead ringer for the
cartoon sexpot Betty Boop and to whom Rhinehart referred
affectionately as Roscoe, after Lookout Mountain’s only living
celebrity, the heavy-serving tennis player Roscoe Tanner, in spite of
her evident hatred of the nickname. The cottage was small and it was
necessary to spend as much time as possible away from it. One night
after a protracted, men-only drinking session at an East Hampton
watering hole, Solanka had insisted on driving back during a heavy
downpour. A period of dumbstruck terror ensued. Then Rhinehart
said, as mildly as he could, “Malik, in America we drive on the other
side of the road.” Solanka had blown up and, incensed at the
disrespect being shown to his driving skills, had stopped the car and
actually forced Rhinehart to walk home in the drenching rain. “That
was one of your best apologies,” Jack now reminded him.
“Particularly because the next morning you couldn’t remember doing
anything wrong at all.”
“Yes,” Solanka murmured, “but now I’m having the blackouts
without the booze. And the anger events are on a completely different
scale.” The noise of the TV crowd surged as he spoke, demanding
Rhinehart’s attention, and the confession passed unheard. “Oh, and,”
Rhinehart resumed moments later, “you can’t not know how hard
your friends try to avoid certain subjects in your company. U.S. policy
in Central America, for example. U.S. policy in Southeast Asia.
Actually, the U.S.A. in general has been pretty much an off-limits
topic for years, so don’t think I wasn’t tickled when you decided to
relocate yo’ ass in the bosom of the Great Satan hisself.” Yes, but,
Solanka wanted to say, rising to the bait, what’s wrong is wrong, and
because of the immense goddamn power of America, the immense
fucking seduction of America, those bastards in charge get away with
… “There you go, you see,” Rhinehart pointed at him, chuckling.
“Just swellin’ up fit to bust. Bright red, then purple, then almost
black. A heart attack waiting to happen. You know what we call it

when it happens? Getting Solankered. Malik’s China syndrome. It’s an
honest to God fuckin’ meltdown. I mean, mah fren’, I’m the man who
actually done gone to these places and brought back the bad news, but
that don’t stop you from tellin’ me off ‘bout it, on account of my
citizenship, which in yo’ mad eyes makes me ‘sponsible for de mighty
evil dat keep gettin’ done in mah po’ name.”
No fool like an old fool. So he and Beloved Ali were really the same
after all, Solanka humbly thought. Just a few slight surface differences
of vocabulary and education. No: he was worse, because Beloved was
just a boy on his first day in a new job, while he, Solanka, was
becoming something awful and perhaps uncontrollable. The bitter
irony was that his old habits of combativeness, this evidently comic
intemperateness of his, would blind even his friends to the great
change in kind, the hideous deterioration, that was now taking place.
This time there really was a wolf coming and nobody, not even Jack,
was listening to his cries. “And furthermore,” Rhinehart caroled gaily,
“remember when you ejected, oh, what’s his name from your house
for misquoting Philip Larkin? Man! So you’ve been getting snappy with
the neighbors? Whoo-ee. Hold the front page.”
How could Malik Solanka speak to his mirthful friend of the
abnegation of the self: how to say, America is the great devourer, and
so I have come to America to be devoured? How could he say, I am a
knife in the dark; I endanger those I love?
Solanka’s hands itched. Even his skin was betraying him. He, whose
baby-bottom skin had always caused women to marvel and to tease
him for having led a life of cosseted ease, had begun to suffer from
uncomfortable raw eruptions along his hairline and, most awkwardly
of all, on both hands. The skin reddened, puckered, and broke. So far
he had not visited a dermatologist. Before walking out on Eleanor, a
lifetime eczema sufferer, he had raided her medicine box and brought
away two thick tubes of hydrocortisone ointment. At the local Duane
Reade he bought a jumbo-sized bottle of industrial-strength
moisturizer and resigned himself to using it several times a day.
Professor Solanka did not have a high opinion of doctors. Accordingly,
he self-medicated, and itched.
It was the age of science, but medical science was still in the hands
of primitives and oafs. The main thing you learned from doctors was
how little they knew. In the paper yesterday there had been a story
about a doctor who had accidentally removed a woman’s healthy

breast. He was “reprimanded.” It was such an everyday story that it
only made a deep inside page. This was the sort of thing doctors did:
the wrong kidney, the wrong lung, the wrong eye, the wrong baby.
Doctors did wrong. It was just barely news.
The news: it was right there in his hand. After getting out of
Beloved Ali’s cab he’d picked up a copy of the News and the Post, then
had taken an erratic route home, walking fast, as if trying to escape
Something…. Ellen DeGeneres, posters proclaimed, was coming soon
to the Beacon Theatre. Solanka grimaced. She’d be singing her theme
song, of course: Where the hormones, there moan I. And the room
would be full of women hollering, “Ellen, we love you,” and in the
midst of her set of deeply so-so material the comedienne would pause,
lower her head, put her hand on her heart, and say how moved she
was to have become a symbol of their pain. Praise me, thank you,
thank you, praise me some more, hey, look, Anne, we’re an icon!,
wow!, it’s so humbling…. Science was making extraordinary
discoveries, Professor Solanka thought. Scientists in London believed
they had identified the medial insula, a part of the brain associated
with “gut feelings,” and also that part of the anterior cingulate that
was linked to euphoria, as the locations of love. Also, British and
German scientists now claimed that the frontal lateral cortex was
responsible for intelligence. The blood flow in this region increased
when tested volunteers were called upon to solve complicated puzzles.
Tell me where is fancy bred? / I’ the heart or i’ the head? And where in
the brain, wild-hearted Solanka only half rhetorically asked himself, is
the seat of stupidity? Eh, scientists of the world? In what insula or
cortex does the blood flow increase when one shouts “I love you” at a
total fucking stranger? And how about hypocrisy? Let’s get to the
interesting stuff here …
He shook his head. You’re avoiding the issue, Professor. You’re
dancing all around it when what you have to do is stare it down, look
it right in the face. Let’s get to anger, okay? Let’s get to the goddamn
fury that actually kills. Tell me, where is murder bred? Malik Solanka,
clutching his newspaper, hurtled east along Seventy-second Street,
scattering pedestrians. On Columbus he made a left and half-ran
another dozen distraught blocks or so before coming to a halt. Even
the stores hereabouts had Indian names: Bombay, Pondicherry.
Everything conspired to remind him of what he was trying to forget—
of, that is, home, the idea of home in general and his own home life in

particular. In not Pondicherry but, yes, it cannot be denied, Bombay.
He went into a Mexican-themed bar with a high Zagat’s rating,
ordered a shot of tequila, and another, and then, finally, it was time
for the dead.
This one, last night’s corpse, and the two before. These were their
names. Saskia “Sky” Schuyler, today’s big picture, and her
predecessors Lauren “Ren” Muybridge Klein and Belinda “Bindy”
Booken Candell. These were their ages: nineteen, twenty, nineteen.
These were their photographs. Look at their smiles: these were the
smiles of power. A lump of concrete put out those lights. These were
not poor girls, but they’re penniless now.
She was something, Sky was. Five-foot-nine, stacked, spoke six
languages, reminded everyone of Christie Brinkley as the Uptown Girl,
loved big hats and high fashion, could’ve walked for anyone—Jean-
Paul, Donatella, Dries had all begged her, Tom Ford had gone down on
his knees, but she was just too “naturally shy”—this was code for
naturally upper-crust, too much a member of that old-money
snobberia that thought of couturiers as tailors and runway models as
just one small step better than whores—and, besides, there was her
scholarship at Juilliard. Just last weekend she was in a hurry to get
out to Southampton, needed something to wear, no time to choose, so
she rang her great pal the high-end designer Imelda Poushine, asked
her to just send over the whole collection, and messengered back, in
return, a personal check for four count ’em four hundred thousand
dollars.
Yes, says Imelda in Rush & Molloy, the check cleared two days ago.
She was a great girl, a living doll, but business is business, I guess.
We’ll all miss her dreadfully. Yes, it’ll be at the family plot, right there
in the best part, right across from Jimmy Stewart. Everybody’s going.
Big security operation. I hear they decided to lay her to rest in the
wedding gown. So honored. She’ll look beautiful, but that girl
would’ve looked beautiful in rags, believe me. Yes, I’ll be dressing her.
Are you kidding? My privilege. It’s an open-casket situation. They’ve
booked the best: Sally H. for the hair, Rafael for the makeup, Herb for
the photographs. Sky’s the limit, I guess, no pun intended. Her
mother’s handling it all. That woman is made of iron. Not a tear. Just
fifty herself and drop-dead gor, excuse me, don’t print that, okay. No
pun intended.
The inheritors disinherited, the masters made victims: that was the

angle. All that wasted training! For Saskia at nineteen was not only a
linguist, pianist, and dedicated fashionista; she was also already an
expert horsewoman, an archer with hopes of making the Sydney
Olympic team, a long-distance swimmer, a fabulous dancer, a great
cook, a happy weekend painter, a bel canto singer, a hostess in her
mother’s grand manner, and, to judge by the openly worldly
sensuality of her newspaper smile, skilled, too, in other arts to which
the tabloid press was utterly devoted but whereof it dared not speak
freely in such a context. The papers contented themselves with
printing photographs of Saskia’s handsome beau, the polo player
Bradley Marsalis III, of whom all regular readers knew at least this:
that his teammates called him Horse, in honor of the way he was
hung.
A stone from a Lost Boy’s slingshot had felled the beautiful Wendy
Bird. Make that birds: for what was said of Sky Schuyler applied
equally to Bindy Candell and Ren Klein. All three were beautiful, all
three long and blond and formidably accomplished. If the financial
future of their great families rested in the hands of their superlatively
confident brothers, then these young women had been reared to take
charge of the personae of their clans—their style, their class. Their
image. Looking at their stunned menfolk now, it was easy to gauge
the size of their loss. We boys can take care of business, said the silent
grieving faces of the families, but our girls make us who we are. We
are the boat and they are the ocean. We are the vehicle, they’re the
motion. Who, now, will tell us how to be? And there was fear too:
who’ll be next? Of all the ripe girls given to us to pluck from their
branches like the golden apples of the sun, who’s next for the fatal
worm?
A living doll. These young women were born to be trophies, fully
accessorized Oscar-Barbies, to use Eleanor Masters Solanka’s phrase. It
was obvious that the young men of their class were reacting to the
three deaths exactly as if some coveted medallions, some golden
bowls or silver cups, had been stolen from their clubhouse plinths. A
secret society of gilded young men calling itself the S&M, which
stood, it was suggested, for Single & Male, was reportedly planning a
midnight gathering to mourn the loss of its members’ much-loved
main squeezes. “Horse” Marsalis, Anders “Stash” Andriessen—the
Candell girl’s restaurateur Eurohunk—and Lauren Klein’s good-time
guy Keith Medford (“Club”) would lead the mourners. As the S&M

was a secret society, all its members flatly denied its existence and
refused to verify the rumors that the mourning ceremonies would
climax with mixed-sex war-painted naked dancing and skinny-dipping
on a private Vineyard beach, at which time candidates for the
vacancies in the big guys’ beds would be intimately auditioned.
All three dead girls, and their living sisters, thus conformed to
Eleanor’s definition of Desdemonas. They were property. And now
there was a murderous Othello on the loose—in this case, perhaps,
destroying what he could not possess, because that very non-
possession insulted his honor. Not for their infidelity but for their
uninterest was he killing them in this Y2K revision of the play. Or
perhaps he broke them simply to reveal their lack of humanity, their
breakability. Their dollness. For these had been—yes!—android
women, dolls of the modern age, mechanized, computerized, not the
simple effigies of bygone nurseries but fully realized avatars of human
beings.
In its origin, the doll was not a thing in itself but a representation.
Long before the earliest rag dolls and golliwogs, human beings had
made dolls as portraits of particular children and adults, too. It was
always a mistake to let others possess the doll of yourself; who owned
your doll owned a crucial piece of you. The extreme expression of this
idea was of course the voodoo doll, the doll you could stick pins in to
hurt the one it represented, the doll whose neck you could wring to
kill a living being, at a distance, as effectively as a Muslim cook deals
with a chicken. Then came mass production, and the link between
man and doll was broken; dolls became themselves and clones of
themselves. They became reproductions, assembly-line versions,
characterless, uniform. In the present day, all that was changing
again. Solanka’s own bank balance owed everything to the desire of
modern people to own dolls with not just personality but
individuality. His dolls had tales to tell.
But now living women wanted to be doll-like, to cross the frontier
and look like toys. Now the doll was the original, the woman the
representation. These living dolls, these stringless marionettes, were
not just “dolled up” on the outside. Behind their high-style exteriors,
beneath that perfectly lucent skin, they were so stuffed full of
behavioral chips, so thoroughly programmed for action, so perfectly
groomed and wardrobed, that there was no room left in them for
messy humanity. Sky, Bindy, and Ren thus represented the final step

in the transformation of the cultural history of the doll. Having
conspired in their own dehumanization, they ended up as mere totems
of their class, the class that ran America, which in turn ran the world,
so that an attack on them was also, if you cared to see it that way, an
attack on the great American empire, the Pax Americana, itself…. A
dead body on a street, thought Malik Solanka, coming down to earth,
looks a lot like a broken doll.
… Oh, who even thought like this anymore, other than himself?
Was there anyone else left in America with such ugly, misconceived
notions in his head? If you’d asked these young women, these tall
confident beauties on their way to summa cum laude college degrees
and glamorous yachting weekends, these Princesses of the Now, with
their limo services and charity work and mile-a-minute lives and
tame, adoring superheroes striving to win their favor, they would
have told you they were free, freer than any women in any country in
any time, and they belonged to no man, whether father or lover or
boss. They were nobody’s dolls, but their own women, playing with
their own appearance, their own sexuality, their own stories: the first
generation of young women to be truly in control, in thrall neither to
the old patriarchy nor to the man-hating hard-line feminism that had
battered at Bluebeard’s gate. They could be businesswomen and flirts,
profound and superficial, serious and light, and they would make
those decisions for themselves. They had it all—emancipation, sex
appeal, cash—and they loved it. And then somebody came and took it
away from them by hitting them hard on the back of their heads, the
first blow to knock them out and the rest to finish them off. So, who
killed them? If it was dehumanization you were interested in, the
murderer was your man. Not they themselves but he, the Concrete
Killer, had dehumanized them. Professor Malik Solanka, tears running
down his face as he sat hunched over his tequila on a bar stool, buried
his head in his hands.
Saskia Schuyler had lived in a many-roomed but low-ceilinged
apartment in what she called “the ugliest building on Madison
Avenue,” a blue brick monstrosity opposite the Armani store, whose
“only good point,” in Sky’s opinion, was that she could call the store
and have them hold dresses up to the window so that she could check
them out through binoculars. She hated the apartment, her parents’
former Manhattan pied-à-terre. The Schuylers lived mostly out of
town, on a gated estate set in rolling landscape near Chappaqua, New

York, and spent much time complaining about the Clintons’ purchase
of a house in their hometown. Sky, said Bradley Marsalis, liked to
reassure her parents that Hillary wouldn’t be there long. “If she wins,
she’ll be off to D.C. and the Senate, and if she loses, she’ll leave even
faster.” Meanwhile, Sky wanted to sell up on Madison and move to
Tribeca, but the co-op board had three times turned down the
purchasers she had found. On the subject of the board, Sky was
vociferous. “It’s full of lacquered old dames covered in tight shiny
fabric, like overstuffed sofas, and I guess if you want to get in, you
have to look like furniture too.” The building did have a twenty-four-
hour doorman service, however, and the night-duty doorman, old Abe
Green, reported that on the date in question Miss Schuyler, “lookin’
like a million dollars” after a big night out at a music-awards gala
(“Horse” had industry connections), got home around one-thirty. She
parted at the door from a plainly reluctant Mr. Marsalis—“Boy, did he
look pissed,” Green noted—and walked unhappily to the elevator.
Green rode up with her. “To make her smile, I told her, Too bad you
only live on the fifth, miss, otherwise I could enjoy lookin’ at you a
little longer.” Fifteen minutes later she buzzed for the elevator again.
“Everything okay, miss?” Abe asked her. “Oh, I guess so. Yeah, sure,
Abe,” she said. “Sure.” Then she walked out by herself, still in her
party finery, and never came back. Her body was found a long way
downtown, near the entrance to the Midtown Tunnel. A study of the
last hours of Lauren Klein and Bindy Candell showed that they, too,
had come home late, refused entry to their boyfriends, and gone out
again shortly afterward. As if these girls had turned Life away, then
set out to keep their assignations with Death.
Saskia, Lauren, and Belinda had not been robbed. Their finger rings,
earrings, chokers, and upper-arm bracelets were all found to be in
place. Nor had they been sexually assaulted. No motive for the
murders had emerged, but all three boyfriends raised the possibility of
a stalker. In the days before their deaths, all the dead women had
mentioned seeing a Panama-hatted stranger “lurking oddly.” “It’s like
Sky was executed,” a somber, cigar-smoking Brad Marsalis told the
press at a photo-op and Q-and-A at a hotel suite in Vineyard Haven.
“It’s like somebody sentenced her to death and carried out that
sentence in, like, cold blood.”

7
The news of Solanka’s split from Eleanor had sent shock waves
through their circle. Each marriage that breaks interrogates those that
continue to hold. Malik Solanka was conscious of having initiated a
chain reaction of spoken and unspoken questions at breakfast tables
across the city, and in bedrooms, and in other cities too: Are we still
good? Okay, how good? Are there things you’re not telling me? Am I
going to wake up one day and you’ll say something that makes me
realize I’ve been sharing my bed with a stranger? How will tomorrow
rewrite yesterday, how will next week unmake the past five, ten,
fifteen years? Are you bored? Is it my fault? Are you weaker than I
thought? Is it him? Is it her? Is it the sex? The children? Do you want
to fix it? Is there anything to fix? Do you love me? Do you still love
me? Do I still, oh Jesus Jesus, love you?
These agonies, for which his friends inevitably held him responsible
to some unspecified degree, returned to him as echoes. In spite of his
emphatic embargo, Eleanor was handing out his Manhattan phone
number to anyone who wanted it. Men, more than women, seemed
moved to call up and reprove. Morgen Franz, the post-hippie Buddhist
publisher whose telephone Eleanor had answered all those years ago,
was first in line. Morgen was Californian and had taken refuge from
that fact in Bloomsbury but never shaken off his slow Haight-Ashbury
drawl. “I’m not happy about this, man,” he’d called Malik to reveal,
his vowels even more elongated than usual to emphasize his pain.
“And what’s more, I don’t know anyone who is. I don’t know why you
did this, man, and because you’re neither a dope nor a shit, I’m sure
you’ll have your reasons, I’m sure you will, you know?, and they’ll be
good reasons, too, man, I have no doubt of it, I mean what can I tell
you, I love you, you know?, I love you both, but right now I have to
say I feel a lot of anger toward you.” Solanka could visualize his

friend’s reddened, short-bearded face, his small deep-set eyes blinking
fiercely for emphasis. Franz was legendarily laid-back—“nobody’s
cooler than the Morg,” that was his catchphrase—so this heated
climax came as a jolt. Solanka, however, stayed cold, and allowed
himself to express his own feelings truthfully and irrevocably.
“Six, seven, eight years ago,” he said, “Lin used to call Eleanor in
tears because you refused to have a child with her, and you know
what?, you had your reasons, you had your deep disenchantment with
the human race to deal with every day, and on children, as on
Philadelphia, you took the Fields position. And, Morgen, I ‘felt a lot of
anger toward you’ in those days myself. I saw Lin settling for cats
instead of babies and I didn’t like it and guess what? I never called
you to scold you or to ask what was the relevant Buddhist teaching on
the subject, because I decided it was none of my damn business what
went on between you and your wife. That it was your private affair,
given that you weren’t actually beating her up, or given, anyway, that
it was merely her spirit you were breaking, not her body. So do me a
favor and bugger off. This is not your story. It’s mine.” And there it
went, their old friendship, eight or was it nine Christmas Days spent
in turn at each other’s homes, the Trivial Pursuit, the charades, the
love. Lin Franz called him the next morning to tell him that what he
had said was unforgivable. “Please know,” she added, in her whisper-
soft, overly formal Vietnamese-American English, “that your desertion
of Eleanor has only served to bring Morgen and I even closer together.
And Eleanor is a strong woman, and will pick up the reins of her life
soon, when she has mourned. We will all go on without you, Malik,
and you will be the poorer for having excluded us from your life. I am
sorry for you.”
A knife held over the sleeping figures of your wife and child cannot
be mentioned to anyone, much less explained. Such a knife represents
a crime far worse than the substitution of a long-haired feline for a
mewling babe. And Solanka had no answer to the hows and whys of
this appalling, enigmatic event. Is this a dagger which I see before me,
the handle toward my hand? There he had simply been, like guilty
Macbeth, and the weapon too was simply there, impossible to wish
away or to edit out of the image afterward. That he had not plunged
the knife into sleeping hearts did not make him innocent. To hold the
knife so and to stand thus was more than enough. Guilty, guilty! Even
as he spoke his stern, friendship-breaking words to his old friend,

Malik Solanka had been starkly aware of their hypocrisy, and he
received Lin’s subsequent rebuke without comment. He had
surrendered all his rights to protest when he ran his thumb along the
Sabatier blade, testing its sharpness in the dark. This knife was his
story now, and he had come to America to write it.
No! In despair, to unwrite it. Not to be but to un-be. He had flown to
the land of self-creation, the home of Mark Skywalker the Jedi
copywriter in red suspenders, the country whose paradigmatic
modern fiction was the story of a man who remade himself—his past,
his present, his shirts, even his name—for love; and here, in this place
from whose narratives he was all but disconnected, he intended to
attempt the first phase of such a restructuring, namely—he
deliberately now applied to himself the same sort of mechanical
imagery that he had so callously used against the dead women—the
complete erasure, or “master deletion,” of the old program.
Somewhere in the existing software there was a bug, a potentially
lethal flaw. Nothing less than the unselfing of the self would do. If he
could cleanse the whole machine, then maybe the bug, too, would end
up in the trash. After that, he could perhaps begin to construct a new
man. He fully saw that this was a fantastic, unrealistic ambition, if
intended seriously, literally, instead of in-a-manner-of-speaking;
nevertheless, literally was how he meant it, no matter how unhinged
that might sound. For what was the alternative? Confession, fear,
separation, policemen, head doctors, Broadmoor, shame, divorce, jail?
The steps down into that inferno seemed inexorable. And the worse
inferno he would leave behind, the burning blade turning forever in
the mind’s eye of his growing son.
He had conceived, in that instant, an almost religious belief in the
power of flight. Flight would save others from him, and him from
himself. He would go where he was not known and wash himself in
that unknowing. A memory from forbidden Bombay peremptorily
insisted on his attention: the memory of the day in 1955 when Mr.
Venkat—the big-deal banker whose son Chandra was the ten-year-old
Malik’s best friend—became a sanyasi on his sixtieth birthday and
abandoned his family forever, wearing no more than a Gandhian
loincloth, with a long wooden staff in one hand and a begging bowl in
the other. Malik had always liked Mr. Venkat, who would tease him
by asking him to pronounce, very quickly, his full, polysyllabically
tumbling South Indian name: Balasubramanyam Venkataraghavan.

“Come on, boy, faster,” he’d coax Malik as his childish tongue
stumbled over the syllables. “Don’t you wish you had a name as
magnificent as this?”
Malik Solanka lived in a second-floor apartment in a building called
Noor Ville on Methwold’s Estate off Warden Road. The Venkats
occupied the other apartment on that floor, and gave every indication
of being a happy family: one, in fact, that Malik envied every day of
his life. Now both apartment doors stood open, and children crowded
wide-eyed and grave around stricken adults as Mr. Venkat took his
leave of his old life forever. From the depths of the Venkats’
apartment came the noise of a crackly seventy-eight: a song by the Ink
Spots, Mr. Venkat’s favorite group. The spectacle of Mrs. Venkat
crying her eyes out on his mother’s shoulder hit little Malik Solanka
hard. As the banker turned to go, Malik suddenly called out to him.
“Balasubramanyam Venkataraghavan!” And then, saying it faster and
louder, until he was simultaneously gabbling and screaming:
“Balasubramanyamvenkataraghavanbalasubramanyamvenkataraghavan
BALASUBRAMANYAMVENKATARAGHAVAN!”
The banker paused gravely. He was a small, bony man, kind-faced,
bright-eyed. “That is very well said, and the speed is impressive too,”
he commented. “And because you have repeated it five times without
a mistake, I will answer five questions, if you wish to ask them.”
Where are you going? “I am going in search of knowledge and if
possible of peace.” Why aren’t you wearing your office suit? “Because
I have given up my employment.” Why is Mrs. Venkat crying? “That is
a question for her.” When are you coming back? “This step, Malik, is
once and for all.” What about Chandra? “He will understand one
day.” Don’t you care about us anymore? “That is the sixth question.
Over the limit. Be a good child now. Be a good friend to your friend.”
Malik Solanka remembered his mother trying, after Mr. Venkat went
away down the hill, to explain the philosophy of the sanyasi, of a
man’s decision to give up all possessions and worldly connections,
severing himself from life, in order to come closer to the Divine before
it was time to die. Mr. Venkat had left his affairs in good order; his
family would be well provided for. But he would never return. Malik
did not understand most of what he was being told, but he had a vivid
comprehension of what Chandra meant when, later that day, he broke
his father’s old Ink Spots records and shouted: “I hate knowledge! And
peace, too. I really hate peace a lot.”

When a man without faith mimicked the choices of the faithful, the
result was likely to be both vulgar and inept. Professor Malik Solanka
donned no loincloth, picked up no begging bowl. Instead of
surrendering himself to the fortune of the street and the charity of
strangers, he flew business class to JFK, checked briefly into the
Lowell, called a real estate broker, and speedily lucked out, finding
himself this commodious West Side sublet. Instead of heading for
Manaus, Alice Springs, or Vladivostok, he had landed himself in a city
in which he was not completely unknown, which was not completely
unknown to him, in which he could speak the language and find his
way around and understand, up to a point, the customs of the natives.
He had acted without thinking, had been strapped into his airline seat
before he allowed himself to reflect; then he’d simply accepted the
imperfect choice his reflexes had made, agreed to proceed down the
unlikely road onto which his feet, without prompting, had turned. A
sanyasi in New York, a sanyasi with a duplex and credit card, was a
contradiction in terms. Very well. He would be that contradiction and,
in spite of his oxymoronic nature, pursue his goal. He too was in
search of a quietus, of peace. So, his old self must somehow be
canceled, put away for good. It must not rise up like a specter from
the tomb to claim him at some future point, dragging him down into
the sepulchre of the past. And if he failed, then he failed, but one did
not contemplate what lay beyond failure while one was still trying to
succeed. After all, Jay Gatsby, the highest bouncer of them all, failed
too in the end, but lived out, before he crashed, that brilliant, brittle,
gold-hatted, exemplary American life.
He awoke in his bed—fully dressed, again, with strong drink on his
breath—without knowing how or when he’d reached it. With
consciousness came fear of himself. Another night unaccounted for.
Another blank snowstorm in the videotape. But as before there was no
blood on his hands or clothes, no weapon on his person, not so much
as a concrete lump. He lurched upright, grabbed the zapper and found
the tail end of the local news on TV. Nothing about a Concrete Killer
or a Panama Hat Man or a privileged beauty done to death. No
breaking of a living doll. He fell back across the bed, breathing hard
and fast. Then, kicking off his street shoes, he pulled the covers over
his aching head.
He recognized this funk. Long ago in a Cambridge hostel he had

been unable to rise and face his new undergraduate existence. Now as
then, panic and demons rushed in at him from every side. He was
vulnerable to demons. He heard their bat-wings flapping by his ears,
felt their goblin fingers twining around his ankles to pull him down to
that hell in which he didn’t believe but which kept cropping up in his
language, in his emotions, in the part of him that was not his to
control. That growing part of him that was running wild, out of his
feeble hands … where was Krysztof Waterford-Wajda when he needed
him? Come on, Dubdub, knock at the door and pull me away from the
edge of the yawning Pit.—But Dubdub didn’t return from beyond
Heaven’s door to knock.
This wasn’t it, Solanka told himself feverishly. This wasn’t the story
that had brought him all this way! Not this Jekyll and Hyde
melodrama, a saga of a lower order entirely. There was no Gothic
strain in the architecture of his life, no mad scientist’s laboratory, no
bubbling retorts, no gulped potion of demonic metamorphosis. Yet the
fear, the funk, would not leave him. He drew the covers down more
tightly over his head. He could smell the street on his clothes. There
was no evidence linking him to any crime. Nor was he under
investigation for anything at all. How many men, in an average
Manhattan summer, wore Panama hats? Hundreds, at least? Why,
then, was he tormenting himself so? Because if the knife was possible,
so was this. And then the circumstances: three failures of nocturnal
memory, three dead women. This was the conjunction that required
his silence as absolutely as the knife in the dark but which he could
not hide from himself. Also that stream of obscenities unknowingly
spoken in Café Mozart. Not enough for any court to convict, but he
was his own judge, and the jury was out.
Blearily, he dialed a number and waited through the interminable
mechanized-voice preliminaries to receive his voice mail. You have—
one!—new message.—The following—one!—new message—has NOT been
heard.—First message. Then came Eleanor’s voice, with which long ago
he fell in love. “Malik, you say you want to forget yourself. I say you
have already forgotten yourself. You say you don’t want to be ruled
by your anger. I say your anger has never ruled you more. I remember
you though you have forgotten me. I remember you before that doll
screwed up our lives: you used to be interested in everything. I loved
that. I remember your gaiety, your terrible singing, your funny voices.
You taught me to love cricket; now I want Asmaan to love it too. I

remember your longing to know, of human beings, the best that we
are capable of, but also to look without illusions at the worst. I
remember your love of life, of our son, and of me. You abandoned us,
but we have not abandoned you. Come home, darling. Please come
home.” Naked, courageous, heart-tearing stuff. But here was another
gap. When had he spoken to Eleanor of anger and forgetting? Perhaps
he had come home drunk and wanted to explain himself. Maybe he
had left her a message, to which this was her answer. And she, as
ever, had heard much more than he had said. Had heard, in short, his
fear.
He made himself get up, stripped and showered. He was brewing
coffee in the kitchen when he realized that the apartment was empty.
Yet it was one of Wislawa’s days. Why wasn’t she here? Solanka
dialed her number. “Yes?” It was her voice all right. “Wislawa?” he
demanded. “Professor Solanka. Aren’t you supposed to be working
today?” There was a long pause. “Professor?” said Wislawa’s voice,
sounding timid and small. “You do not remember?” He felt his body
temperature dropping rapidly. “What? Remember what?” Now
Wislawa’s voice grew tearful. “Professor, you fire me. You fire me, for
what? For nothing. Of course you remember. And the words. Such
words from an educated man, I never heard. After this, it’s over for
me. Even now that you call to ask me, I cannot return.” Somebody
spoke behind her, another woman’s voice, and Wislawa rallied, to add
with considerable determination, “However, cost of my work is
included in your contract. Since you fire me unjustly I will continue to
receive this. I have spoken to landlord and they are agree. I think they
will speak also to you. You know, I work for Mrs. Jay long time.”
Malik Solanka put the receiver down without another word.
You’re fired. As if in a movie. The red-skirted cardinal descends the
golden steps to deliver the pope’s adieu. The driver, a woman, waits
in her little car, and when the cruel messenger leans into her window,
he wears Solanka’s face.
The city was being sprayed with the pesticide Anvil. Several birds,
mostly from the Staten Island wetlands, had died of West Nile virus,
and the mayor was taking no chances. Everyone was on high
mosquito alert. Stay indoors at dusk! Wear long sleeves! During
spraying, close all windows and turn all air-conditioning units off!
Such interventionist radicalism, although not a single human being
had contracted the illness since the beginning of the new millennium.

(Later, a few cases were reported; but no deaths.) The timorousness of
Americans in the face of the unknown, their overcompensation, had
always made Europeans laugh. “A car backfires in Paris,” Eleanor
Solanka—even Eleanor, the least bitchy of human beings—liked to
say, “and the next day a million Americans cancel their holidays.”
Solanka had forgotten about the spraying, had walked for hours
through the falling invisible poison. For a moment he considered
blaming the pesticide for his memory loss. Asthmatics were having
convulsions, lobsters were said to be dying by the thousand,
environmentalists were squawking; why shouldn’t he? But his natural
fairness prevented him from going down this route. The source of his
problems was likely to be of existential rather than chemical origin.
If you heard it, good Wislawa, then it must be so. But you see, I was not
aware… Aspects of his behavior had been escaping from his control. If
he were to seek professional help, no doubt a breakdown of some sort
would be diagnosed. (If he were Bronislawa Rhinehart, he would
gladly take that diagnosis home with him and then start looking for
somebody to sue.) It struck him with great force that a breakdown of
some sort was precisely what he had been inviting all along. All those
rhapsodies about wishing to be unmade! So now that certain
chronological segments of himself had ceased to be in touch with
others—now that he had literally dis-integrated in time—why was he
so shocked? Be careful what you wish for, Malik. Remember W. W.
Jacobs. The story of the monkey’s paw.
He had come to New York as the Land Surveyor came to the Castle:
in ambivalence, in extremis, and in unrealistic hope. He had found his
billet, a more comfortable one than the poor Surveyor’s, and ever
since then had been roaming the streets, looking for a way in, telling
himself that the great World-City could heal him, a city child, if he
could only find the gateway to its magic, invisible, hybrid heart. This
mystical proposition had clearly altered the continuum around him.
Things appeared to proceed by logic, according to the laws of
psychological verisimilitude and the deep inner coherences of
metropolitan life, but in fact all was mystery. But perhaps his was not
the only identity to be coming apart at the seams. Behind the façade
of this age of gold, this time of plenty, the contradictions and
impoverishment of the Western human individual, or let’s say the
human self in America, were deepening and widening. Perhaps that
wider disintegration was also to be made visible in this city of fiery,

jeweled garments and secret ash, in this time of public hedonism and
private fear.
A change of direction was required. The story you finished was
perhaps never the one you began. Yes! He would take charge of his
life anew, binding his breaking selves together. Those changes in
himself that he sought, he himself would initiate and make them. No
more of this miasmic, absent drift. How had he ever persuaded
himself that this money-mad burg would rescue him all by itself, this
Gotham in which Jokers and Penguins were running riot with no
Batman (or even Robin) to frustrate their schemes, this Metropolis
built of Kryptonite in which no Superman dared set foot, where
wealth was mistaken for riches and the joy of possession for
happiness, where people lived such polished lives that the great rough
truths of raw existence had been rubbed and buffed away, and in
which human souls had wandered so separately for so long that they
barely remembered how to touch; this city whose fabled electricity
powered the electric fences that were being erected between men and
men, and men and women, too? Rome did not fall because her armies
weakened but because Romans forgot what being a Roman meant.
Might this new Rome actually be more provincial than its provinces;
might these new Romans have forgotten what and how to value, or
had they never known? Were all empires so undeserving, or was this
one particularly crass? Was nobody in all this bustling endeavor and
material plenitude engaged, any longer, on the deep quarry-work of
the mind and heart? O Dream-America, was civilization’s quest to end
in obesity and trivia, at Roy Rogers and Planet Hollywood, in USA
Today and on E!; or in million-dollar-game-show greed or fly-on-the-
wall voyeurism; or in the eternal confessional booth of Ricki and
Oprah and Jerry, whose guests murdered each other after the show; or
in a spurt of gross-out dumb-and-dumber comedies designed for
young people who sat in darkness howling their ignorance at the
silver screen; or even at the unattainable tables of Jean-Georges
Vongerichten and Alain Ducasse? What of the search for the hidden
keys that unlock the doors of exaltation? Who demolished the City on
the Hill and put in its place a row of electric chairs, those dealers in
death’s democracy, where everyone, the innocent, the mentally
deficient, the guilty, could come to die side by side? Who paved
Paradise and put up a parking lot? Who settled for George W. Gush’s
boredom and Al Bore’s gush? Who let Charlton Heston out of his cage

and then asked why children were getting shot? What, America, of the
Grail? O ye Yankee Galahads, ye Hoosier Lancelots, O Parsifals of the
stockyards, what of the Table Round? He felt a flood bursting in him
and did not hold it back. Yes, it had seduced him, America; yes, its
brilliance aroused him, and its vast potency too, and he was
compromised by this seduction. What he opposed in it he must also
attack in himself. It made him want what it promised and eternally
withheld. Everyone was an American now, or at least Americanized:
Indians, Iranians, Uzbeks, Japanese, Lilliputians, all. America was the
world’s playing field, its rule book, umpire, and ball. Even anti-
Americanism was Americanism in disguise, conceding, as it did, that
America was the only game in town and the matter of America the
only business at hand; and so, like everyone, Malik Solanka now
walked its high corridors cap in hand, a supplicant at its feast; but
that did not mean he could not look it in the eye. Arthur had fallen,
Excalibur was lost, and dark Mordred was king. Beside him on the
throne of Camelot sat the queen, his sister, the witch Morgan le Fay.
Professor Malik Solanka prided himself on being a practical man.
Deft with his hands, he could thread a needle, mend his own clothes,
iron a dress shirt. For a time, when he first began to make his
philosophy dolls, he had apprenticed himself to a Cambridge tailor
and learned to cut the clothes his pint-sized thinkers would wear; also
the street-fashion knockoffs he created for Little Brain. Wislawa or no,
he knew how to keep his living quarters clean. Henceforth he would
apply the same principles of good housekeeping to his inner life as
well.
He set off along Seventieth Street with the Chinese cleaners’ purple
laundry bag slung over his right shoulder. Turning onto Columbus, he
overheard the following soliloquy. “You remember my ex-wife, Erin.
Tess’s mom. Yeah, the actress; these days she does mainly
commercials. So guess what? We’re seeing each other again. Pretty
weird, huh. After two years of thinking she was the enemy, and five
more of better but still tricky relations! I started inviting her to come
over sometimes with Tess. Tess likes her mom to be around, to tell the
truth. And then one night. Yeah, it was one of those Then One Night
things. There was a point at which I went over and sat down next to
her on the settee instead of staying in my usual chair way over across
the other side of the room. You know, my desire for her never went
away, it just got buried under a heap of other stuff, a whole heap of

anger, to tell the truth, and so now it all just poured out, boom! An
ocean of it. To tell the truth the seven years had backed up a whole
load of it, desire, that is, and maybe the anger made it even more
intense, so it was amazingly bigger than it used to be. But so here’s
the thing. I walk over to the settee and what happens, happens, and
afterwards she says, ‘You know, when you came over to me, I didn’t
know if you were going to hit me or kiss me.’ I guess I didn’t know
either until I reached the settee. To tell the truth.”
All this spoken into the air at high volume by a gangling, frizz-
haired Art Garfunkel-y man in his forties, out walking a brindled dog.
It was a moment before Solanka saw the cell-phone headset through
the halo of ginger hair. These days we all come across like rummies or
crackpots, Solanka thought, confiding our secrets to the wind as we
stroll along. Here was a striking example of the disintegrated
contemporary reality that was preoccupying him. Dog-walking Art,
existing for the moment only in the Telephone Continuum—lingering
in the sound of silence—was quite unaware that in the alternative, or
Seventieth Street Continuum, he was revealing his deepest intimacies
to strangers. This about New York Professor Solanka liked a lot—this
sense of being crowded out by other people’s stories, of walking like a
phantom through a city that was in the middle of a story which didn’t
need him as a character. And the man’s ambivalence to his wife,
Solanka thought: for wife, read America. And maybe I’m still walking
over to the settee.
The day’s newspapers brought unexpected comfort. He must have
turned on the TV too late to hear the day’s main developments in the
Sky-Ren-Bindy murder investigation. Now with lifting heart he read
that the team of detectives—three precincts had joined forces on this
inquiry—had hauled the three beaux in for questioning. They had
later been released, and no charges had been filed for the moment,
but the detectives’ demeanor had been grave and the young men had
been warned not to head off in a hurry for any Riviera yachts or
Southeast Asian beaches. Unnamed sources close to the investigation
said that the “Mr. Panama Hat” theory was being heavily discounted,
which clearly implied that the suspect boyfriends were thought to
have cooked up the mysterious stalker between them. Stash, Horse,
and Club looked, in the photos, like three very scared young men.
Press comment, wasting no time, instantly linked the unsolved triple
murder to the Nicole Brown Simpson killing and the death of little

JonBenét Ramsey. “In such cases,” one editorial concluded, “it’s
wisest to keep the search pretty close to home.”
“Can I talk to you?” When he got back to the apartment, giddy with
relief, Mila was waiting for him on the stoop, sans entourage, but
holding in her arms a half-life size Little Brain doll. The
transformation in her manner was startling. Gone was the street-
goddess swagger, the queen-of-the-world attitude. This was a shy,
gawky young woman with stars in her green eyes. “What you said at
the movies. Are you, it has to be you, right? You’re that Professor
Solanka? ‘Little Brain created by Prof. Malik Solanka.’ You brought
her into being, you gave her life. Oh, wow. I even have all the
videotapes of Adventures, and for my twenty-first birthday my dad
went to a dealer and bought me the first-draft script of the Galileo
episode, you know, before they made you cut all the blasphemy out?,
that’s like my most treasured possession. Okay, please say I’m right,
because otherwise I’m making such a fool of myself my cool is totally
blown forever. Well, it’s pretty blown anyway, you have no idea what
Eddie and the guys thought of me coming over here with a doll, for
Chrissake.” Solanka’s natural defenses, already lowered on account of
his lightened heart, were overwhelmed by such extreme passion.
“Yes,” he conceded. “Yes, that’s me.” She screamed at the top of her
voice, leaping high in the air about three inches away from his face.
“No way!” she then hooted, unable to stop hopping up and down. “Oh
my God. I have to tell you, Professor: you totally rock. And your L.B.,
this little lady right here, has been my like total obsession for most of
the last ten years. I watch every move she makes. And as you spotted,
she’s only the basis and inspiration for my whole current personal
style.” She stuck a hand out. “Mila. Mila Milo. Don’t laugh. It was
Milosevic originally, but my dad wanted something everyone could
say. I mean, this is America, right? Make it easy. Mee-la My-lo.”
Stretching the vowels out exaggeratedly, she pulled a face, then
grinned. “Sounds like, I don’t know, farm fertilizer. Or maybe cereal.”
He felt the old anger surge in him as she spoke, the huge,
unassuaged Little Brain anger that had remained unexpressed,
inexpressible, all these years. This was the anger that had led directly
to the episode of the knife…. He made an immense effort and forced
it down. This was the first day of his new phase. Today there would
be no red mist, no obscene tirade, no fury-induced memory blackout.

Today he would face the demon and wrestle it to the mat. Breathe, he
told himself. Breathe.
Mila was looking worried. “Professor? Are you okay?” He nodded
rapidly, yes, yes. And briefly said: “Come inside, please. I want to tell
you a story.”

PART
two

8
His earliest dolls, the little characters he had made, when younger, to
populate the houses he’d designed, were painstakingly whittled out of
soft whitewoods, clothes and all, and afterward painted, the clothing
in vivid colors and the faces full of tiny but significant details: here a
woman’s cheek swollen to hint at toothache, there a fan of crow’s-feet
at the corners of some jolly fellow’s eyes. Since those distant
beginnings he had lost interest in the houses, while the people he
made had grown in stature and psychological complexity. Nowadays
they started out as clay figurines. Clay, of which God, who didn’t
exist, made man, who did. Such was the paradox of human life: its
creator was fictional, but life itself was a fact.
He thought of them as people. When he was bringing them into
being, they were as real to him as anyone else he knew. Once he had
created them, however, once he knew their stories, he was happy to
let them go their own way: other hands could manipulate them for
the television camera, other craftsmen could cast and replicate them.
The character and the story were all he cared about. The rest was just
playing with toys.
The only one of his creations with whom he fell in love—the only
one he didn’t want anyone else to handle—would break his heart.
This was, of course, Little Brain: first a doll, later a puppet, then an
animated cartoon, and afterward an actress, or, at various other times,
a talk-show host, gymnast, ballerina, or supermodel, in a Little Brain
outfit. Her first, late-night, series, of which nobody expected much,
had been made more or less exactly as Malik Solanka desired. In that
time-traveling quest program, “L.B.” was the disciple, while the
philosophers she met were the real heroes. After the move to prime
time, however, the channel’s executives soon weighed in. The original
format was deemed much too highbrow. Little Brain was the star, and

the new show had to be built around her, it was decreed. Instead of
traveling constantly, she needed a location and a cast of recurring
characters to play off. She needed a love interest, or better still a
series of suitors, which would allow the hottest young male actors of
the time to guest-star on the show and wouldn’t tie her down. Above
all, she needed comedy: smart comedy, brainy comedy, yes, but there
must definitely be a great many laughs. Probably even a laugh track.
Writers could, would, be provided to work with Solanka to develop
his hit idea for the mass audience that would now come into contact
with it. This was what he wanted, wasn’t it—to move into the
mainstream? If an idea didn’t develop, it died. These were the facts of
televisual life.
Thus Little Brain moved to Brain Street in Brainville, with a whole
family and neighborhood posse of Brains: she had an older brother
called Little Big Brain, there was a science laboratory down the street
called the Brain Drain, and even a laconic cowboy movie star
neighbor (John Brayne). It was painful stuff, but the lower the
comedy stooped, the higher the ratings soared. Brain Street wiped out
the memory of The Adventures of Little Brain in a minute and settled in
for a long, lucrative run. At a certain point Malik Solanka bowed to
the inevitable and walked off the program. But he kept his credit on
the show, ensured that his “moral rights” in his creation were
protected, and negotiated a healthy share of the merchandising
income. He couldn’t watch the show any longer. But Little Brain gave
every indication of being happy to see him go.
She had outgrown her creator—literally; she was life-size now, and
several inches taller than Solanka—and was making her own way in
the world. Like Hawkeye or Sherlock Holmes or Jeeves, she had
transcended the work that created her, had attained the fiction’s
version of freedom. She now endorsed products on television, opened
supermarkets, gave after-dinner speeches, emceed gong shows. By the
time Brain Street had run its course she was a full-fledged television
personality. She got her own talk show, made guest appearances in
new hit comedies, appeared on the catwalk for Vivienne Westwood,
and was attacked, for demeaning women, by Andrea Dworkin
—“smart women don’t have to be dolls”—and, for emasculating men,
by Karl Lagerfeld (“what true man wants a woman with a bigger shall
I say vocabulary than his own?”). Both critics then immediately
agreed, for high consultancy fees, to join the concept group behind

“L.B.,” a team known at the BBC as the Little Brains Trust. Little
Brain’s bubble-gum-poppy debut movie Brainwave was a rare false
step, and flopped badly, but the first volume of her memoirs (!) went
straight to the top of the Amazon bestseller charts as soon as it was
announced, months before it was even published, clocking up over a
quarter of a million sales in pre-orders alone, from hysterical fans who
were determined to be first in line. After publication it broke all
records; a second, third, and fourth volume followed, one per year,
and sold, at the most conservative estimate, over fifty million copies
worldwide.
She had become the Maya Angelou of the doll world, as relentless
an autobiographer as that other caged bird, her life the model for
millions of young people—its humble beginnings, its years of struggle,
its triumphant overcomings; and, O, her dauntlessness in the face of
poverty and cruelty! O, her joy when Fate chose her to be one of its
Elect!—among whom West Seventieth Street’s own empress of cool,
Mila Milo, was proud to be numbered. (Her unlived life! Solanka
thought. Her fictive history, part Dungeons & Dragons fairy tale, part
dirt-poor ghetto saga, and all ghostwritten for her by anonymous
persons of phantom talent! This was not the life he had imagined for
her; this had nothing to do with the back-story he had dreamed up for
his pride and joy. This L.B. was an impostor, with the wrong history,
the wrong dialogue, the wrong personality, the wrong wardrobe, the
wrong brain. Somewhere in medialand there was a Château d’If in
which the real Little Brain was being held captive. Somewhere there
was a Doll in an Iron Mask.)
The extraordinary thing about her fan base was its catholicity: boys
dug her as much as girls, adults as much as children. She crossed all
boundaries of language, race, and class. She became, variously, her
admirers’ ideal lover or confidante or goal. Her first book of memoirs
was originally placed by the Amazon people in the nonfiction lists. The
decision to move it, and the subsequent volumes, across into the
world of make-believe was resisted by both readers and staff. Little
Brain, they argued, was no longer a simulacrum. She was a
phenomenon. The fairy’s wand had touched her, and she was real.
All this Malik Solanka witnessed from a distance with growing
horror. This creature of his own imagining, born of his best self and
purest endeavor, was turning before his eyes into the kind of monster
of tawdry celebrity he most profoundly abhorred. His original and

now obliterated Little Brain had been genuinely smart, able to hold
her own with Erasmus or Schopenhauer. She had been beautiful and
sharp-tongued, but she had swum in the sea of ideas, living the life of
the mind. This revised edition, over which he had long ago lost
creative control, had the intellect of a slightly overaverage
chimpanzee. Day by day she became a creature of the entertainment
microverse, her music videos—yes, she was a recording artist now!—
out-raunching Madonna’s, her appearances at premieres out-Hurleying
every starlet who ever trod the red carpet in a dangerous frock. She
was a video game and a cover girl, and this, remember, in her
personal appearance mode at least, was essentially a woman whose
own head was completely concealed inside the iconic doll’s. Yet many
aspirants to stardom vied for the role, even though the Little Brains
Trust—which had become too big for the BBC to hold on to, and had
broken away to become a booming independent business, projected to
break the billion-dollar barrier someday soon—insisted on utter
confidentiality; the names of the women who brought Little Brain to
life were never revealed, though rumors abounded, and the paparazzi
of Europe and America, bringing their own special expertise to bear,
claimed to be able to identify this actress or that model by those
other, nonfacial attributes which Little Brain so proudly put on
display.
Astonishingly, the glamour-puss transformation lost latex-headed
Little Brain no fans, but brought her a new legion of adult male
admirers. She had become unstoppable, giving press conferences at
which she spoke of setting up her own film production company,
launching her own magazine in which beauty hints, lifestyle advice,
and cutting-edge contemporary culture would all receive the special
Little Brain treatment, and even going nationwide, in the U.S.A., on
cable television. There would be a Broadway show—she was in
discussion with all the major players in the musical game, dear Tim
and dear Elton and dear Cameron and of course dear, dear Andrew—
and a new, big-budget movie was also planned. This would not repeat
the corny teenybopper mistakes of the first but grow “organically” out
of the zillion-selling memoirs. “Little Brain is not some plastic-
fantastic Barbie Spice,” she told the world—she had started speaking
of herself in the third person—“and the new film will be very human,
and quality all the way. Marty, Bobby, Brad, Gwynnie, Meg, Julia,
Tom and Nic are all interested; also Jenny, Puffy, Maddy, Robbie,

Mick: I guess everybody these days wants a Little Brain.”
The ballooning triumph of Little Brain inevitably occasioned much
comment and analysis. Her admirers were jeered at for their lowbrow
obsession, but at once eminent theater folk came forward to speak of
the ancient tradition of mask theater, its origins in Greece and Japan.
“The actor in the mask is liberated from her normality, her
everydayness. Her body acquires remarkable new freedoms. The mask
dictates all this. The mask acts.” Professor Solanka remained aloof,
refusing all invitations to discuss his out-of-control creation. The
money, however, he was unable to refuse. Royalties continued to pour
into his bank account. He was compromised by greed, and the
compromise sealed his lips. Contractually bound not to attack the
goose that laid the golden eggs, he had to bottle up his thoughts and,
in keeping his own counsel, filled up with the bitter bile of his many
discontents. With every new media initiative spearheaded by the
character he had once delineated with such sprightliness and care, his
impotent fury grew.
In Hello! magazine, Little Brain—for a reported seven-figure fee—
allowed readers an intimate look at her beautiful country home,
which was, apparently, an old Queen Anne pile not far from the
Prince of Wales’s in Gloucestershire, and Malik Solanka, whose
original inspiration had been the Rijksmuseum dollhouses, was
thunderstruck by the effrontery of this latest inversion. So now the big
houses would belong to these uppity dolls, while most of the human
race still lived in cramped accommodation? The wrongness—in his
view the moral bankruptcy—of this particular development alarmed
him profoundly; still, far from bankrupted himself, he held his tongue
and took the dirty money. For ten years, as “Art Garfunkel” might
have said into his mouthpiece, he had backed up a whole heap of self-
loathing and rage. Fury stood above him like a cresting Hokusai wave.
Little Brain was his delinquent child grown into a rampaging giantess,
who now stood for everything he despised and trampled beneath her
giant feet all the high principles he had brought her into being to
extol; including, evidently, his own.
The L.B. phenomenon had seen off the 1990s and showed no sign of
running out of steam in the new millennium. Malik Solanka was
forced to admit a terrible truth. He hated Little Brain.
Meanwhile, nothing to which he turned his hand was bearing much
fruit. He continued to approach the newly successful British

claymation companies with characters and storylines but was told,
kindly and unkindly, that his concepts weren’t of the moment. In a
young person’s business, he had become something much worse than
merely older: he was old-fashioned. At a meeting to discuss his
proposal for a feature-length claymation life of Niccolò Machiavelli,
he did his best to speak the new language of commercialism. The film
would, of course, use anthropomorphic animals to represent human
originals. “This really has everything,” he awkwardly enthused. “The
golden age of Florence! The Medicis in their splendor—cool clay
aristocats! Simonetta Vespussy, the most beautiful cat in the world,
being immortalized by that young hound Barkicelli. The Birth of
Feline Venus! The Rite of Pussy Spring! Meanwhile Amerigo Vespussy,
that old sea lion, her uncle, sails off to discover America! Savona-
Roland the Rat Monk ignites the Bonfire of the Vanities! And at the
heart of it all, a mouse. Not just any old Mickey, though: this is the
mouse who invented realpolitik, the brilliant mouse playwright, the
distinguished public rodent, the republican mouse who survived being
tortured by the cruel cat prince and dreamed in exile of a day of
glorious return …” He was interrupted unceremoniously by an
executive from the money people, a plump boy who could not have
been more than twenty-three years old. “Florence is great,” he said.
“No question. I love that. And Niccolò, what did you call him?,
Mousiavelli sounds … possible. But what you have here—this
treatment—let me put it like this. It just doesn’t deserve Florence.
Maybe, yeah?, it’s not a good time right now for the Renaissance in
plasticine.”
He could go back to writing books, he thought, but soon found that
his heart wasn’t in it. The inexorability of happenstance, the way
events have of deflecting you from your course, had corrupted him
and left him good for nothing. His old life had left him forever and the
new world he’d created had slipped through his fingers too. He was
James Mason, a falling star, drinking hard, drowning in defeats, and
that damn doll was flying high in the Judy Garland role. With
Pinocchio, Geppetto’s troubles ended when the blasted puppet became
a real, live boy; with Little Brain, as with Galatea, that’s when they
began. Professor Solanka in drunken wrath issued anathemas against
his ungrateful Frankendoll: Out of my sight let her go! Begone,
unnatural child. Lo, I know you not. You shall not bear my name.
Never send to ask for me, nor never seek my blessing. And call me

father no more.
Out she went from his home in all her versions—the sketches,
maquettes, tableaux, the infinite proliferation of her in all her myriad
versions, paper, cloth, wood, plastic, animation cell, videotape, film;
and with her, inevitably, went a once-precious version of himself. He
hadn’t been able to bear to perform the act of expulsion personally.
Eleanor agreed to take on the task. Eleanor, who could see the crisis
mounting—the red cracks in the eyes of the man she loved, the
alcohol, the rudderless wandering—said in her gentle, efficient way,
“Just go out for the day and leave it to me.” Her own career in
publishing was on hold, Asmaan being all the career she needed for
the moment, but she had been a high flier and was greatly in demand.
This, too, she concealed from him, though he wasn’t a fool, and knew
what it meant when Morgen Franz and others rang to speak to her
and stayed on the phone, coaxing, for thirty minutes at a time. She
was wanted, he understood that, everyone was wanted except him,
but at least he could have this paltry revenge; he could not want
something too, even if it was only that two-faced creature, that
traitress, that, that, doll.
So he left home on the agreed day, stamping over Hampstead Heath
at high speed—they lived in a capacious, double-fronted house on
Willow Road and had always both rejoiced in having the Heath, North
London’s treasure, its lung, just outside their door—and in his absence
Eleanor had everything properly packed and taken away to a long-
term storage facility. He’d have preferred the whole caboodle to end
up at the Highbury garbage dump, but on this, too, he compromised.
Eleanor had insisted. She had strong archival instincts and, needing
her to take charge of the project, he waved a hand at her strictures as
if at a mosquito, and didn’t argue. He walked for hours, allowing the
Heath’s cool music to soothe his savage breast, the quiet heart-
rhythms of its slow paths and trees, and, later in the day, the sweet
strings of a summer concert in the grounds of the Iveagh Bequest.
When he got back, Little Brain was gone. Or, almost gone. For,
unknown to Eleanor, one doll had been locked away in a cupboard in
Solanka’s study. And there she remained.
The house felt emptied when he returned, voided, the way a house
feels after the death of a child. Solanka felt as if he had suddenly aged
by twenty or thirty years; as if, divorced from the best work of his
youthful enthusiasms, he at last stood face-to-face with ruthless Time.

Waterford-Wajda had spoken of such a feeling at Addenbrooke’s years
ago. “Life becomes very, I don’t know, finite. You realize you don’t
have anything, you belong nowhere, you’re just using things for a
while. The inanimate world laughs at you: you’ll be going soon, but it
will be staying on. Not very profound, Solly, it’s Pooh Bear
philosophy, I know, but it rips you to pieces all the same.” This wasn’t
just the death of a child, Solanka was thinking: more like a killing.
Kronos devouring his daughter. He was the murderer of his fictional
offspring: not flesh of his flesh but dream of his dream. There was,
however, a living child still awake, overexcited by the day’s events:
the arrival of the moving van, the packers, the steady come and go of
boxes. “I was helping, Daddy,” eager Asmaan greeted his father. “I
helped send Little Brain away.” He was bad at compound consonants,
saying b for br: Little B’ain. That’s about right, Solanka thought. She
became the bane of my life. “Yes,” he answered absently. “Well done.”
But Asmaan had more on his mind. “Why did she have to go away,
Daddy? Mummy said you wanted her to go away.” Oh, Mummy said,
did she. Thanks, Mummy. He glared at Eleanor, who shrugged.
“Really, I didn’t know what to tell him. This one’s for you.”
On children’s television, in comic books, and in audio versions of
her legendary memoirs, Little Brain’s protean persona had reached out
and captured the hearts of children even younger than Asmaan
Solanka. Three was not too young to fall in love with this most
universally appealing of contemporary icons. “L.B.” could be driven
out of the house on Willow Road, but could she be expelled from the
imagination of her creator’s child? “I want her back,” Asmaan said
emphatically. Back was bat. “I want Little B’ain.” The pastoral
symphony of Hampstead Heath gave way to the jangling discords of
family life. Solanka felt the clouds gathering around him once again.
“It was just time for her to go,” he said, and picked up Asmaan, who
wriggled hard against him, responding unconsciously, as children do,
to his father’s bad mood. “No! Put me down! Put me down!” He was
exhausted and cranky and so was Solanka. “I want to watch a video,”
he demanded. Viduwo. “I want to watch a Little B’ain viduwo.” Malik
Solanka, unbalanced by the impact of the absence of the Little Brain
archive, of her exile to some DollElba, some Black Sea town, such as
Ovid’s barren Tomis, for unwanted, used-up toys, had been plunged
quite unexpectedly into a condition resembling deep mourning and
received his son’s end-of-day petulance as an unacceptable

provocation. “It’s too late. Behave yourself,” he snapped, and Asmaan,
in return, crouched down on the front-room rug and produced his
latest trick: a burst of impressively convincing crocodile tears.
Solanka, no less childishly than his son, and without the excuse of
being three years old, rounded on Eleanor. “I suppose this is your way
of punishing me,” he said. “If you didn’t want to get rid of the stuff,
why not just say so. Why use him. I should have known I’d come back
to trouble. To some manipulative crap like this.”
“Please don’t let him hear you talking to me that way,” she said,
scooping Asmaan into her arms. “He understands everything.”
Solanka noted that the boy suffered himself to be taken off to bed by
his mother without the slightest wriggle, nuzzling into Eleanor’s long
neck. “As a matter of fact,” she went on levelly, “after doing this
entire day’s work for you, I thought, stupidly as it turns out, that we
might use it as the moment for a new beginning. I took a leg of lamb
out of the freezer and rubbed it with cumin, I called the flower shop,
oh God this is so silly, and had them deliver nasturtiums. And you’ll
find three bottles of Tignanello on the kitchen table. One for pleasure,
two for too much, three for bed. Perhaps you remember that. It’s your
line. But I’m sure you can’t be bothered anymore to have a romantic
candlelit supper with your boring, no-longer-young wife.”
They had been drifting apart, she into the engulfing, full-time
experience of first-time motherhood, which fulfilled her so deeply and
which she was so eager to repeat, he into that fog of failure and self-
disgust which was thickened, more and more, by drink. Yet the
marriage had not broken, thanks in large measure to Eleanor’s
generous heart, and to Asmaan. Asmaan, who loved books and could
be read to for hours; Asmaan on his garden swing, asking Malik to
twist him around and around so that he could untwist in a high-speed
counterclockwise blur; Asmaan riding on his father’s shoulders,
ducking his head under doorways (“I’m being very careful, Daddy!”);
Asmaan chasing and being chased, Asmaan hiding under bedclothes
and piles of pillows; Asmaan attempting to sing “Rock Around the
Clock”—rot around the tot—most of all, perhaps, Asmaan bouncing. He
loved to bounce on his parents’ bed, with his stuffed animals cheering
him on. “Look at me,” he’d cry—look was loot—“I’m bouncing very
well! I’m bouncing higher and higher!”
He was the young incarnation of their old high-bouncing love.
When their child was flooding their lives with delight, Eleanor and

Malik Solanka could take refuge in a fantasy of undamaged familial
contentment. At other times, however, the cracks were becoming ever
easier to see. She found his self-absorbed misery, his constant railing
against imagined slights, duller and more of a strain than she was ever
cruel enough to show; while he, locked into his downward spiral,
accused her of ignoring him and his concerns. In bed, whispering so as
not to wake Asmaan sleeping on a mattress on the floor beside them,
she complained that Malik never initiated sex; he retorted that she
had lost interest in sex entirely except at the baby-making time of the
month. And at that time of the month, routinely, they fought: yes, no,
please, I can’t, why not, because I don’t want to, but I need it so
badly, well, I don’t need it at all, but I don’t want this lovely little boy
to be an only child like me, and I don’t want to be a father again at
my age, I’ll already be over seventy before Asmaan is twenty years
old. And then tears and anger and, as often as not, a night for Solanka
in the guest bedroom. Advice to husbands, he thought bitterly: make
sure the spare room is comfortable, because sooner or later, pal, that’s
your room.
Eleanor was waiting tensely by the stairs for his reply to her
invitation to a night of peace and love. Time passed in slow beats,
arriving at a hinge moment. He could, if he had the wit and desire,
accept her invitation, and then, yes, a good evening would follow:
delicious food, and, if at this age three bottles of Tignanello didn’t
send him straight to sleep, then no doubt the lovemaking would be up
to the old high standard. But now there was a worm in Paradise, and
he failed the test. “You’re ovulating, I suppose,” he said, and she
jerked her face away from him as if he’d slapped her. “No,” she lied,
and then, giving in to the inevitable, “Oh, all right, yes. But can’t we
just, oh, I wish you could see how desperately, oh, to hell with it,
what’s the use.” She carried Asmaan away, unable to hold back her
tears. “I’m going to go to sleep, too, when I put him to bed, okay?”
she said, weeping angrily. “Do what you like. Just don’t leave the
lamb in the fucking Aga. Take it out and throw it in the fucking bin.”
As Asmaan went upstairs in his mother’s arms, Solanka heard the
worry in his tired young voice. “Daddy’s not cross,” Asmaan said,
reassuring himself, wanting to be reassured. Cross was toss. “Daddy
doesn’t want to send me away.”
Alone in the kitchen, Professor Malik Solanka began to drink. The
wine was as good and as powerful as ever, but he wasn’t drinking for

pleasure. Steadily, he worked his way through the bottles, and as he
did, the demons came crawling out through the several orifices of his
body, sliding down his nose and out through his ears, dribbling and
squeezing through every opening they could find. By the bottom of
the first bottle they were dancing on his eyeballs, his fingernails, they
had wrapped their rough lapping tongues around his throat, their
spears were jabbing at his genitals, and all he could hear was their
scarlet song of shrill, most horrid hate. He had come through self-pity
now and entered a terrible, blaming anger, and by the bottom of the
second bottle, as his head slopped about on his neck, the demons were
kissing him with their forked tongues and their tails were wrapped
around his penis, rubbing and squeezing, and as he listened to their
dirty talk, the unforgivable blame for what he had become had begun
to settle on the woman upstairs, she who was nearest to hand, the
traitress who had refused to destroy his enemy, his nemesis, the doll,
she who had poured the poison of Little Brain into the brain of his
child, turning the son against the father, she who had destroyed the
peace of his home life by preferring the uncreated child of her
obsession to her actually existing husband, she, his wife, his betrayer,
his one great foe. The third bottle fell, half unfinished, across the
kitchen table that she had so lovingly set for dinner à deux, using her
mother’s old lace tablecloth and the best cutlery and a pair of long-
stemmed red Bohemian wineglasses, and as the red fluid spilled across
the old lace, he remembered that he’d forgotten the damn lamb, and
when he opened the Aga door, the smoke poured out and set off the
smoke detector in the ceiling, and the screaming of the alarm was the
laughter of the demons, and to stop it STOP IT he had to get the step
stool and climb up on unsteady wine-dark legs to take the battery
pack out of the damn-fool thing, okay, okay, but even when he’d done
that without breaking his goddamn neck, the demons went right on
laughing their screaming laughter, and the room was still full of
smoke, goddamn her, couldn’t she even have done this one small
thing, and what would it take to stop the screaming in his head, this
screaming like a knife, like a knife in his brain in his ear in his eye in
his stomach in his heart in his soul, couldn’t the bitch just have taken
the meat out and put it right there, on the carving board next to the
sharpening steel, the long fork and the knife, the carving knife, the
knife.
It was a big house and the smoke alarm had not woken Eleanor or

Asmaan, who was already in her bed, Malik’s bed. Fat lot of use that
alarm system turned out to be, huh. And here he was standing above
them in the dark and here in his hand was the carving knife, and
there was no alarm system to warn them against him, was there,
Eleanor lying on her back with her mouth slightly open and a low
burr of a snore rumbling in her nose, Asmaan on his side, curled
tightly into her, sleeping the pure deep sleep of innocence and trust.
Asmaan murmured inaudibly in his sleep and the sound of his faint
voice broke through the demons’ shrieking and brought his father to
his senses. Before him lay his only child, the one living being under
this roof who still knew that the world was a place of wonders and life
was sweet and the present moment was everything and the future was
infinite and didn’t need to be thought about, while the past was
useless and fortunately gone for good and he, a child wrapped in the
soft sorcerer’s cloak of childhood, was loved beyond words, and safe.
Malik Solanka panicked. What was he doing standing over these two
sleepers with a, with a, knife, he wasn’t the sort of person who would
do a thing like this, you read about those persons every day in the
yellow press, coarse men and sly women who slaughtered their babies
and ate their grandmothers, cold serial murderers and tormented
pedophiles and unashamed sexual abusers and wicked stepfathers and
dumb violent Neanderthal apes and all the world’s ill-educated
uncivilized brutes, and those were other persons entirely, no persons
of that nature resided in this house, ergo he, Professor Malik Solanka
formerly of King’s College in the University of Cambridge, he of all
people could not be in here holding in his drunken hand a savage
instrument of death. Q.E.D. And anyway, I never was any good with
the meat, Eleanor. It was always you who carved.
The doll, he thought with a belching, vinous start. Of course! That
satanic doll was to blame. He had sent all the avatars of the she-devil
out of the house, but one remained. That had been his mistake. She
had crawled out of her cupboard and down through his nose and
given him the carving knife and sent him to do her bloody work. But
he knew where she was hiding. She couldn’t hide from him. Professor
Solanka turned and left the bedroom, knife in hand, muttering, and if
Eleanor opened her eyes after he’d gone, he did not know it; if she
had watched his retreating back and knew and judged him, it must be
for her to say.
It had grown dark outside on West Seventieth Street. Little Brain

was on his lap as he finished speaking. Its garments were slashed and
torn and you could see where the knife had made deep incisions in its
body. “Even after I stabbed her, as you see, I couldn’t leave her
behind. All the way to America I held her body in my arms.” Mila’s
own doll silently interrogated its damaged twin. “Now you’ve heard
everything, which is a great deal more than you wanted,” Solanka
said. “You know how this thing has ruined my life.” Mila Milo’s green
eyes were on fire. She came over and caught up both his hands
between her own. “I don’t believe it,” she said. “Your life isn’t ruined.
And these—come on, Professor!—these are just dolls.”

9
“There’s a look you sometimes get that reminds me of my father
before he died,” Mila Milo said, blithely unaware of how that sentence
might be received by its subject. “Kind of indistinct, like a picture
where the photographer’s hand shook a little? Like Robin Williams in
that movie where he’s always out of focus. I once asked Dad what it
meant and he said it was the look of a person who had spent too
much time around other human beings. The human race is a life
sentence, he said, it’s a rough confinement, and sometimes we all
need to break out of jail. He was a writer, a poet mostly but a novelist
also, you won’t have heard of him, but in Serbo-Croat he’s considered
pretty good. More than pretty good, actually, quite amazing, one of
the best of the best. Nobélisable, as the French say, but he never got it.
Didn’t live long enough, I guess. Still. Take it from me. He was good.
The depth of his connection to the natural world, his feeling for the
ancients, for folklore: he was one of a kind. Hobgoblins jumping in
and out of flowers, I teased him. The flower inside the goblin would
be better, he answered. The memory of a pure shining river that
lingers in Satan’s heart. You have to understand that religion was
important for him. He lived in cities mostly, but his soul was in the
hills. An old soul, people called him. But he was young at heart, too,
you know? He really was. A barrel of monkeys. Most of the time. I
don’t know how he managed it. They never let up on him, they kept
messing with his head. We lived in Paris for years after he got out
from under Tito, I attended the American School there until I was
eight, nearly nine, my mom unfortunately passed when I was three,
three and a half, breast cancer, what can you do, it just killed her real
fast and real painfully, may she rest in peace. Anyway, so he would
get letters from home and I would open them for him and there,
stamped on the front page of a letter from I don’t know his sister or

someone was a big official stamp saying, This letter has not been
censored. HA! In the mid-eighties I came with him to New York to
attend the big PEN conference, the famous one when there were all
those parties, one at the Temple of Dendur in the Metropolitan and
another at Saul and Gayfryd Steinberg’s apartment, and nobody could
decide which was grander, and Norman Mailer invited George Shultz
to speak at the Public Library and so the South Africans boycotted the
event because he was, like, pro-apartheid, and Shultz’s security people
wouldn’t let Bellow in because he’d forgotten his invitation, so that
made him a possible terrorist, until Mailer vouched for him, Bellow
must have liked that!, and then the women writers protested because
the platform speakers were mostly men, and either Susan Sontag or
Nadine Gordimer scolded them because, she said, Nadine or Susan, I
forget, literature isn’t an equal opportunity employer. And Cynthia
Ozick I think it was accused Bruno Kreisky of being an anti-Semite
even though he was a, a Jew and b, the European politician who’d
taken in the most Russian-Jewish refugees, and all this because he’d
had a meeting with Arafat, one meeting, so that makes Ehud Barak
and Clinton really anti-Semitic, right?, I mean it’s going to be Jew-
Haters International down there at Camp David. And anyway Dad
spoke, too, the conference had some grand title like ‘The Imagination
of the Writer Versus the Imagination of the State,’ and after
somebody, I’ve forgotten, Breytenbach or Oz, someone like that, said
that the state had no imagination, Dad said that on the contrary, not
only did it have an imagination, it also had a sense of humor, and he
would give an example of a joke by the state, and then he told the
story of the letter that had not been censored, and I sat there in the
audience feeling so proud because everybody laughed and after all I
was the one who opened the letter. I went with him to every session,
are you kidding?, I was crazy for writers, I’d been a writer’s daughter
all my life and books to me were like the greatest thing, and it was so
cool because they let me sit in on everything even though I was only
small. It was so great to see my dad finally with his like peers and
getting so much respect, and besides, here were all these names
walking around attached to the real people they belonged to, Donald
Barthelme, Günter Grass, Czeslaw Milosz, Grace Paley, John Updike,
everyone. But at the end my father had that look on his face, the one
like the one on yours, and he left me with Aunt Kitty from Chelsea,
not my real aunt, she and Dad had a thing for about five minutes—
you should have seen him with women, he was this big sexy guy with

huge hands and a thick mustache like I guess Stalin, and he would
look women in the eye and start talking about animals in heat,
wolves, for instance, and that was it, they were gone. I swear to God
these ladies would actually make a line, he’d go up to his hotel room
and they’d form right up outside, a real honest to goodness line, the
greatest women you can imagine, just weak at the knees with lust;
and it’s lucky I liked to read a lot, and also there was American TV to
watch for once, so I was okay in the other room, I was fine, though a
lot of times I wanted to go out and ask those women waiting around
for it to be their turn, like, don’t you have something better to do, you
know?, it’s only his pecker for Chrissakes, get a life. Yeah, I used to
shock a lot of people, I grew up fast I guess because it was always my
dad and me, always him and me against the world. So anyway I guess
he liked Aunt Kitty, she must’ve passed the audition, because her
prize was she got to look after me for two weeks while Dad went off
with two professors to walk in I think the Appalachians; hill walking
was what he liked to do to get rid of his people overdoses, and he
always came back looking different, kind of clearer, you know? I
called it his Moses look. Down from the mountain, you know, with the
Decalogue. Only in Dad’s case, usually, poetry. Anyhow, long story
short, about five minutes after he got back from schmoozing with the
profs on a mountainside, he was offered a post at Columbia University
and we moved to New York permanently. Which I loved, sure, but he
was like I said a country person and a dyed-in-the-wool European
person, too, so it was harder for him. Still, he was used to working
with what there was, used to handling whatever life sent his way.
Okay, he drank like a real Yugoslav and he smoked about a hundred a
day and he had a bad heart, he knew he was never going to be an old
man, but he had made a decision about his life. You know, like in The
Nigger of the Narcissus. I must live until I die. And that’s what he did,
he did great work and had great sex and smoked great cigarettes and
drank great liquor and then the damn war started and out of nowhere
he turned into this person I didn’t know, this, I guess, Serb. Listen, he
despised the guy he called the other Milosevic, he hated having the
same name, and that’s really why he changed it, if you want the truth.
To separate Milo the poet from Milosevic the fascist gangster pig. But
after it all went crazy out there in getting-to-be-ex-Yugo, he got all
worked up about the demonization of the Serbs, even though he
agreed with most of the analysis of what Milosevic was doing in
Croatia and going to do in Bosnia, his heart was just inflamed by the

anti-Serb stuff, and in some mad moment he decided it was his duty
to go back and be the moral conscience of the place, you know, like
Stephen Dedalus, to forge in the smithy of his soul et cetera et cetera
or some Serb Solzhenitsyn. I told him to cut it out, who was
Solzhenitsyn anyway but this crazy old coot in Vermont dreaming of
being a prophet back in Mother Russia, but when he got home nobody
was listening to his same old song, that’s definitely not the route you
want to go, Dad, for you it’s women and cigarettes and booze and
mountains and work work work, the idea was to let that stuff kill you,
right, the plan was to stay away from Milosevic and his killers, not to
mention bombs. But he didn’t listen to me, and instead of sticking to
the game plan he caught a plane back there, into the fury. That’s what
I started out to say, Professor, don’t talk to me about fury, I know
what it can do. America, because of its omnipotence, is full of fear; it
fears the fury of the world and renames it envy, or so my dad used to
say. They think we want to be them, he’d say after a few hits of
hooch, but really we’re just mad as hell and don’t want to take it
anymore. See, he knew about fury. But then he set aside what he
knew and behaved like a damn fool. Because about five minutes after
he landed in Belgrade—or maybe it was five hours or five days or five
weeks, who, like, cares?—the fury blew him to pieces and there wasn’t
enough of him found to collect up and put in a box. So, yeah,
Professor, and you’re mad about a doll. Well, excuse me.”
The weather had changed. The heat of early summer had given way to
a disturbed, patternless time. There were many clouds and too much
rain, and days of morning heat that abruptly turned cold after lunch,
sending shivers through the girls in their summer dresses and the
baretorsoed rollerbladers in the park, with those mysterious leather
belts strapped tightly across their chests, like self-imposed penances,
just below their pectoral muscles. In the faces of his fellow citizens
Professor Solanka discerned new bewilderments; the things on which
they had relied, summery summers, cheap gasoline, the pitching arms
of David Cone and yes, even Orlando Hernández, these things had
begun to let them down. A Concorde crashed in France, and people
imagined they saw a part of their own dreams of the future, the future
in which they too would break through the barriers that held them
back, the imaginary future of their own limitlessness, going up in
those awful flames.

This golden age, too, must end, Solanka thought, as do all such
periods in the human chronicle. Maybe this truth was just beginning
to slide into people’s consciousness, like the drizzle trickling down
inside the upturned collars of their raincoats, like a dagger slipping
through the gaps in their armor-plated confidence. In an election year,
America’s confidence was political currency. Its existence could not be
denied; the incumbents took credit for it, their opponents refused
them that credit, calling the boom an act of God or else of Alan
Greenspan of the Federal Reserve. But our nature is our nature and
uncertainty is at the heart of what we are, uncertainty per se, in and
of itself, the sense that nothing is written in stone, everything
crumbles. As Marx was probably still saying out there in the junkyard
of ideas, the intellectual St. Helena to which he had been exiled, all
that is solid melts into air. In a public climate of such daily-trumpeted
assurance, where did our fears go to hide? On what did they feed? On
ourselves, perhaps, Solanka thought. While the greenback was all-
powerful and America bestrode the world, psychological disorders and
aberrations of all sorts were having a field day back home. Under the
self-satisfied rhetoric of this repackaged, homogenized America, this
America with the twenty-two million new jobs and the highest home-
owning rate in history, this balanced-budget, low-deficit, stock-
owning Mall America, people were stressed-out, cracking up, and
talking about it all day long in superstrings of moronic cliché. Among
the young, the inheritors of plenty, the problem was most acute. Mila,
with her ultra-precocious Parisian upbringing, often referred
scornfully to the confusion of her contemporaries. Everybody was
scared, she said, everybody she knew, however good their façade, was
quaking inside, and it didn’t make any difference that everybody was
rich. Between the sexes the trouble was worst of all. “Guys don’t
really know how or when or where to touch girls anymore, and girls
can barely tell the difference between desire and assault, flirtation and
offensiveness, love and sexual abuse.” When everything and everyone
you touch turns instantly to gold, as King Midas learned in the other
classic be-careful-what-you-wish-for fable, you end up not being able
to touch anything, or anyone, at all.
Mila had changed too of late, but in her case the transformation
was, in Professor Solanka’s opinion, a vast improvement on the
feckless chick, still playing at teen queenery in her twenties, that she’d
been pretending to be. To hold on to her beautiful Eddie, the college

sports hero—whom she described to Solanka as “not the brightest
bulb, but a dear heart” and to whom a brainy, cultured woman would
no doubt be a threat and a turnoff—she had dimmed her own light.
Not entirely, it had to be said: after all, she had somehow managed to
lure the boyfriend and the rest of the guys into a Kieslowski double
bill, which meant either that they weren’t as dumb as they looked or
that she had even greater powers of persuasion than Solanka already
suspected.
Day by day, she unfurled before Malik’s astonished eyes into a
young woman of wit and competence. She took to visiting him at all
hours: either early, to force him to eat breakfast—it was his habit not
to eat until the evening, a custom that she termed “plain barbaric, and
so bad for you,” and so under her tutelage he began to learn the
mysteries of oatmeal and bran, and to consume, with his fresh coffee,
at least one piece of daily matutinal fruit—or else in the steamy
afternoon hours traditionally reserved for illicit love affairs. However,
love was apparently not on her mind. She engaged him in simpler
pleasures: green tea with honey, strolls in the park, shopping
expeditions—“Professor, the situation is critical; we have to take
immediate and drastic measures to get you some wearable clothes”—
and even a visit to the Planetarium. As he stood with her in the
middle of the Big Bang, hatless, casually attired, newly and springily
shod in the first pair of sneakers he’d bought in thirty years, and
feeling as if she were his parent and he a boy of Asmaan’s age—well,
perhaps just a little older—she turned to him, bent down a little, for
in her heels she was at least six inches taller than he, and actually
took his face in her hands. “Here you are, Professor, at the very
beginning of things. Looking good, too. Cheer up, for Chrissake! It’s
good to make a new start.” All around them a new cycle of Time was
being initiated. This was how everything had begun: boom! Things
flew apart. The center did not hold. But the birth of the universe was
a feel-good metaphor. What followed it was not mere Yeatsian
anarchy. Look, matter clumped with other matter, the primal soup
grew lumpy. Then came stars, planets, single-cell organisms, fish,
journalists, dinosaurs, lawyers, mammals. Life, life. Yes, Finnegan,
begin again, Malik Solanka thought. Finn MacCool, sleep no more,
sucking your mighty thumb. Finnegan, wake.
She also came to talk, as if moved by a deep need for reciprocity.
She spoke at these times with an almost frightening directness and

speed, pulling no punches; yet the purpose of her soliloquies was not
pugilism but friendship. Solanka, receiving her words in their
intended spirit, was much soothed. From her conversation he
frequently learned much of importance, picking up wisdom on the fly,
so to speak; there were unregarded nuggets of pleasure lying about
everywhere, like discarded toys, in the corners of her talk. This, for
instance, while she explained why an earlier boyfriend had dumped
her, a fact she plainly found as improbable as did Solanka: “He was
filthy rich and I wasn’t.” She shrugged. “It was a problem for him. I
mean, I was already in my twenties and I didn’t have my unit.” Unit?
Solanka had been told—by Jack Rhinehart—that the word was used
in certain masculinist American circles to refer to the male genitalia,
but presumably Mila had not been given the heave-ho for lacking
these. Mila defined the term as if speaking to a slow but likable child,
using that careful, idiot’s-guide voice into which Solanka had heard
her occasionally lapse when talking to her Eddie. “A unit, Professor, is
one hundred million dollars.” Solanka was dazed by the revelatory
beauty of this fact. A century of big ones: the contemporary price of
admission to the United States’ Elysian fields. Such was the life of the
young in the America of the incipient third millennium. That a girl of
exceptional beauty and high intelligence could be deemed unsuitable
for so fiscally precise a reason, Solanka told Mila gravely, only
showed that American standards in matters of the heart, or at least in
the mating game, had risen even higher than real estate prices.
“Word, Professor,” Mila replied. Then they both burst into a laughter
that Solanka had not heard emerging from his own mouth in an
eternity. The unfettered laughter of youth.
He understood that she had made him one of her projects. Mila’s
special thing turned out to be the collection and repair of damaged
people. She was up-front about this when he asked her. “It’s what I
can do. I fix people up. Some people do up houses. I renovate people.”
So in her eyes he was like an old mansion, or at least like this old
Upper West Side duplex he had sublet, this handsome space that
hadn’t been spruced up since, probably, the sixties and had begun to
look a bit tragic; inside and out, she said, it was time for a whole new
look. “As long as you don’t hang any cradle full of noisy,
foulmouthed, beedi-smoking Punjabi decorators on my frontage,” he
concurred. (The construction workers had, mercifully, done their
work and left; only the characteristic din of the city street remained.

Even this racket, however, seemed more muted than before.)
Her friends, the vampire stoop troop, were also unveiled by her for
Solanka’s benefit, becoming a little more than mere attitudes. She had
worked on them, too, and was proud of her—of their—achievements.
“It took time—they actually liked their schoolboy eyewear and ugh
corduroy. But now I am privileged to lead the most fashion-forward
geek posse in New York, and when I say geek, Professor, I mean
genius. These kids are the coolest, and when I say cool I mean hot.
The Filipino who sent out the I Love You virus? Forget it. That was
amateur night; this is major league. If these babies wanted to hit
Gates with a virus, you can bet he’d sneeze for years. You see before
you the kind of surfer boys and girls the Evil Emperor is really scared
of, disguised as Gen X slackers for their own safety, to conceal them
from the Empire’s Darths, Vader the Black and Maul the Red ‘n’
Horny. Or, right, you don’t like Star Wars, so then these are like
hobbits I’m hiding from Sauron the Dark Lord and his Ringwraiths.
Frodo, Bilbo, Sam Gamgee, the whole Fellowship of the Ring. Until
the time comes and we take him down and burn his power in Mount
Doom. Don’t think I’m kidding. Why should Gates fear the
competitors he has, he’s beaten them already: they’re just serfs. He’s
got them cold. What gives him nightmares is that some kid will come
out of a cold-water walk-up someplace with the next big thing, the
thing that makes him yesterday’s papers. Obsolete. That’s why he
keeps buying people like us out, he’s ready to lose a few million now
so that he won’t lose his billions tomorrow. Yeah, I’m with the law
courts, tear that palace down, break it in half, can’t happen too soon
for me. But in the meanwhile we’ve got big plans of our own. Me?
Call me Yoda. Backwards I speak. Upside down I think. Inside out can
I turn you. Strong with you think you the Force is? Strongest in me it
moves. Seriously,” she concluded, dropping the rubber-puppet voice,
“I’m just management. And at this point sales and marketing and
publicity also. Keep it lean and mean, right? What you call my
vampires? They’re the creative artists. Webspyder.net. We’re
designing sites right now for Steve Martin, Al Pacino, Melissa
Etheridge, Warren Beatty, Christina Ricci, and Will Smith. Yeah. And
Dennis Rodman. And Marion Jones and Christina Aguilera and
Jennifer Lopez and Todd Solondz and ’N Sync. Big business? We’re in
there. Con Ed, Verizon, British Telecom, Nokia, Canal Plus, if it’s in
communication, we’re in communication wit’ it. You want highbrow?

These are the guys whose phones’re ringing off the hook from like
Robert Wilson and the Thalia Theater of Hamburg and Robert Lepage.
I’m telling you: they’re out there. It’s frontier law today, Professor,
and this here’s the Hole-in-the-Wall Gang. Butch, Sundance, the whole
Wild Bunch. Me, I play house mother. And run the front of house.”
So he had misjudged them, and they were whiz kids; except for
Eddie. They were the storm troopers of the technologized future about
which he had such profound misgivings; except, again, for Eddie. But
then Eddie Ford had been Mila’s most ambitious project “until you
came along. Also,” she said, “you and Eddie have more in common
than you think.”
Eddie had a throwing arm that had brought him far from his origins
in Nowheresville, all the way to Columbia, in fact, all the way to Mila
Milo’s bed, one of the most sought after pieces of real estate in
Manhattan; but in the end it doesn’t matter how far you can throw the
football. You can’t throw away the past, and in that past, back home
in Nowheresville, Nix., Eddie’s young life had been freighted with
tragedy. The characters were sketched out for Solanka by Mila, whose
solemnity imbued them with something close to Greek stature. Here
was Eddie’s Uncle Raymond, the hero back from Vietnam, who
skulked for years in a Unabomberish cottage in the pine-wooded
mountains above town, believing himself unfit for human company on
account of his damaged soul. Ray Ford was prone to violent rages,
which could be triggered even in those remote altitudes by a
backfiring truck in the valley below, a falling tree, or birdsong. And
here was Ray’s “snake skunk weasel” of a brother, Eddie’s mechanic
father, Tobe, cheap cardplayer, cheaper drunk, an asshole whose act
of betrayal would cripple all their lives. And here finally was Eddie’s
mom, Judy Carver, who in those days hadn’t started keeping company
with Santa and Jesus and who out of the goodness of her heart had
gone up into the mountains every week since the early seventies,
until, fifteen years later, when little Eddie was ten years old, she
coaxed the mountain man down into town.
Eddie was in awe of his shaggy, odorous uncle, and more than a
little afraid of him; yet his childhood trips up to Ray’s place were the
highlights of his life experience and formed his most vivid memories,
“better than the movies,” he said. (Judy had started taking him along
after his fifth birthday, hoping to tempt Ray back into the world by
showing him the future, trusting in Eddie’s good nature to win the

wild man’s heart.) On their way up the mountain Judy would sing old
Arlo Guthrie songs and young Eddie would sing right along: “It was
late last night the other day, I thought I’d go up and see Ray, So I went up
and I saw Ray, There was only one thing Ray could say, was, I don’t want
a pickle, Just want to ride on my motorsickle …” But this Ray wasn’t that
Ray. This Ray didn’t own a Harley hog and there wasn’t no Alice with
or without a restaurant. This Ray lived on beans and roots and
probably bugs and germs, Eddie reckoned, and on snakes caught in
his bare hands and eagles pulled out of the sky. This Ray was gimpy
and had teeth like rotting wood and breath that could knock you flat
at a dozen paces. And yet this was the Ray in whom Judy Carver Ford
could still see the sweet boy who went to war, the boy who could
twist the silver paper inside cigarette packs into freestanding human
figures and whittle pine into portraits of girls, which he’d give them in
return for a kiss. (Dolls, Malik Solanka marveled. No escape from their
old voodoo. Here was another goddamn dollmaker’s tale. And another
sanyasi, too. That was what Mila had meant. A truer sanyasi than I, his
withdrawal from society made in proper ascetic fashion. But like me
in that he wanted to lose himself because of his fear of what lay
beneath, what might bubble up at any moment and lay waste to the
undeserving world.) Judy had once kissed Raymond herself, before
making her bad mistake and settling for Tobe, whose bad back saved
him from the draft, from whose bad character nobody could save her;
except, she thought, Ray. If Ray came down from his fastness maybe
that would be a sign, and things would change, and the brothers could
go fishing and bowling, and Tobe would clean up his act, and then
maybe she’d get some peace. And at long last Ray Ford did come,
scrubbed and shaved and wearing a clean shirt, so spruced up that
Eddie didn’t recognize him when he walked through the door. Judy
had made her signature celebration dinner, the same feast of meatloaf
and tuna that she afterward offered to Messrs. Christmas and Christ,
and for a while there everything went well; not too much talking, but
that was okay, everybody was getting used to being in the house with
everybody else.
Over ice cream, Uncle Ray spoke up. Judy hadn’t been the only
woman to visit him up in the woods. “There’s been somebody else,”
he said, with difficulty. “Woman name of Hatty, Carole Hatty, knows
there’s a few of us scattered about them woods, and from the
goodness of her heart she come up to visit with us ’n bring clothes ’n

pie ’n stuff, even though there’s mad bastards up there’d take an ax to
anythin’ came within ten feet, man, woman, child, or rabid dog.” As
he talked about the woman, Uncle Ray began to color and shift in his
seat. Judy said, “She important to you, Raymond? You want us to ask
her over?” Whereupon the snake skunk weasel across the kitchen
table began to slap his thigh and laugh, a loud drunk snake skunk
weasel traitor’s laugh, he laughed till he cried, then jumped up,
knocking over his chair, and said, “Oo, Carole Hatty. Carole Easy-Over
from the Big Dipper Diner on Hopper Street? That Carole Hatty? Woo.
Man, I never knowed she need so much sugar she come up your way
lookin’ for more. Hell, Ray, you been outa touch. Us boys, we bin
bangin’ li’l Carole regular, since she was fifteen years old and
beggin’.” Now Ray looked over at little Eddie, a horrible empty look,
and even at ten Eddie could understand its meaning, could feel how
deeply his Uncle Ray had been stabbed in the back, because Raymond
Ford in his own way had been saying that he had come down from his
hilltop redoubt not only for the love of family—the love of Eddie, the
look said—but also for what he thought of as a good woman’s love;
after the long angry years he had come in the hope of having his heart
healed by these things, and what Tobe Ford had done was to puncture
both those balloons, to stab him twice in the heart with a single blow.
Well, the big man stood up himself after Tobe finished talking and
Judy started shrieking at both of them and trying to get Eddie behind
her at the same time because the snake skunk weasel her husband had
a small pistol in his hand and it was pointed at his brother’s heart.
“Now, then, Raymond,” said old Tobe, grinning, “let’s be rememberin’
what the good book say on the subject of brotherly love.” Ray Ford
walked out of the house and Judy was so scared she started singing
“Late last night I heard the screen door slam,” and at that Tobe left too,
saying he didn’t have to take the crap being handed down around
here, she could take her attitude and stick it where the sun don’t
shine, you hear me, Jude? Don’t judge me, bitch, you’re only my
fuckin’ wife, and if you don’t care for your husband’s remarks, why
don’t you just go suck old loony Raymond’s dick. Tobe went out to
play cards over at the Corrigan body shop, where he worked, and
before morning came, Carole Hatty had been found in an alley with a
broken neck, dead, and Raymond Ford was in the junkyard full of
rusting autos at the back of the Corrigan lot, with a single gunshot
wound in his heart and no sign of a weapon anywhere. That was

when the snake skunk weasel took off, just never came home from the
card game, and even though the word on Tobias Ford, armed and
dangerous, was put out in five states, nobody ever found a trace of
him. Eddie’s mother was of the opinion that the bastard had really
been a snake in disguise all along, and after what he’d done he simply
slipped out of his human skin, just shucked it off and it crumbled to
dust the moment he let it go, and one more snake wouldn’t get any
attention around Nowheresville, where the houses of the Lord were
full of rattlers and diamondbacks and those were just the ministers.
Let him go, she said, if I’d a knowed I was marryin’ a serpent I’d a
drunk poison before sayin’ my Christian vows.
Judy took comfort in her growing collection of quarts of Jack and
Jim, but after what happened had happened, Eddie Ford just clammed
up, hardly spoke twenty words a day. Like his uncle, but without
leaving town, he had sequestered himself from the world, had locked
himself away inside his own body, and as he grew he concentrated all
the immense energies of that newly puissant frame on throwing the
football, throwing it harder and faster than a football had ever been
thrown in Nowheresville, as if by hurling it clean into outer space he
could save himself from the curse of his blood, as if a touchdown pass
were the same thing as freedom. And finally he threw himself as far as
Mila, who rescued him from his demons, coaxing him out of his
internal exile, taking for her own pleasure the beautiful body that he
had made his prison cell and in return giving him back
companionship, community, the world.
Everywhere you looked, thought Professor Malik Solanka, the fury
was in the air. Everywhere you listened you heard the beating of the
dark goddesses’ wings. Tisiphone, Alecto, Megaera: the ancient Greeks
were so afraid of these, their most ferocious deities, that they didn’t
even dare to speak their real name. To use that name, Erinnyes, Furies,
might very well be to call down upon yourself those ladies’ lethal
wrath. Therefore, and with deep irony, they called the enraged trinity
“the good-tempered ones”: Eumenides. The euphemistic name did not,
alas, result in much of an improvement in the goddesses’ permanent
bad mood.
• • •
At first he tried to resist thinking of Mila as Little Brain come alive:

and not Little Brain the hollow media re-creation at that, not Little
Brain the traitress, the lobotomized baby doll of Brain Street and
beyond, but her forgotten original, the lost L.B. of his first imagining,
the star of Adventures with Little Brain. At first he told himself it would
be wrong to do this to Mila, to dollify her thus, but then—he argued
back against himself—had she not done it to herself, had she not by
her own admission made early-period Little Brain her model and
inspiration? Was she not quite plainly presenting herself to him in the
role of the True One he had lost? She was, he now knew, a very bright
young woman indeed; she must have foreseen how her performance
would be received. Yes! Deliberately, to save him, she was offering
him that mystery which—she had somehow divined—would answer
his deepest, though never articulated, need. Shyly, then, Solanka
began to allow himself to see her as his creation, given life by some
unlooked-for miracle and caring for him, now, as might the daughter
he’d never had. Then a slip of the tongue let out his secret, but Mila
seemed not at all put out. Instead she smiled a private little smile—a
smile that, Solanka was obliged to concede, was full of a strange
erotic pleasure, in which there was something of the patient angler’s
satisfaction at the bait being finally taken, and something, too, of the
prompter’s hidden joy when a much repeated cue is picked up at the
last—and, instead of correcting him, she replied as if he had used her
right name and not the doll’s. Malik Solanka flushed hotly, overcome
by an almost incestuous shame, and stammeringly tried to apologize;
whereupon she came up close, until her breasts moved against his
shirt and he could feel the breath from her lips brushing against his,
and murmured, “Professor, call me whatever you like. If it makes you
feel good, please know that it’s good with me.” So they sank daily
deeper into fantasy. Alone in his apartment in the rainy afternoons of
that ruined summer, they played out their little father-and-daughter
game. Mila Milo began quite deliberately to be the doll for him, to
dress more and more precisely in the doll’s original sartorial image
and to act out for a much-aroused Solanka a series of scenarios
derived from the early shows. He might play the part of Machiavelli,
Marx, or, most often, Galileo, while she would be, oh, exactly what he
wanted her to be; would sit by his chair and press his feet while he
delivered himself of the wisdom of the great sages of the world; and
after a little time at his feet, she might move up to his aching lap,
though they would make sure, without a word being said, that a
plump cushion was always placed between her body and his, so that if

he, who had sworn to lie with no woman, responded to her presence
there as might another, less forsworn man, then she need never know
it, they need never mention it, and he need never be obliged to admit
the occasional spilling weakness of his body. Like Gandhi performing
his brahmacharya “experiments with truth,” when the wives of his
friends lay with him at night to enable him to test the mastery of
mind over limb, he preserved the outward form of high propriety; and
so did she, so did she.

10
Asmaan twisted in him like a knife: Asmaan in the morning, proud of
performing his natural functions to a high standard before an
applauding—if unashamedly biased—audience of two. Asmaan in his
daytime incarnations as motorbike rider, tent dweller, sandbox
emperor, good eater, bad eater, singing star, star having tantrums,
fireman, spaceman, Batman. Asmaan after dinner, in his one
permitted video hour, watching endless reruns of Disney movies.
Robin Hood was popular, with its absurd “Notting Ham,” which
featured a singing C&W rooster, cheap rip-offs of Baloo and Kaa from
The Jungle Book, unadulterated American accents all over Sherwood
Forest, and the frequently uttered, if previously little known, Disney
Olde Englishe cry of “Oode-lally!” Toy Story, however, was banned.
“It’s got a stary boy in it.” Stary was scary, and the boy was
frightening because he treated his toys badly. This betrayal of love
terrified Asmaan. He identified with the toys, not their owner. The
toys were like the boy’s children, and his maltreatment of them was,
in Asmaan’s three-year-old moral universe, a crime too hideous to
contemplate. (As was death. In Asmaan’s revisionist reading of Peter
Pan, Captain Hook escaped the crocodile every time.) And after video-
Asmaan came evening-Asmaan, Asmaan in the bath suffering Eleanor
to brush his teeth and announcing preemptively, “We’re not washing
my hair today.” Asmaan, finally, going to sleep holding his father’s
hand.
The boy had taken to telephoning Solanka without regard to the
five-hour time difference. Eleanor had programmed the New York
number into the Willow Road kitchen phone’s speed-dial system; all
Asmaan had to do was push a single button. Hello, Daddy came his
transatlantic voice (this first call had been at five ): I had a nice
A.M.
time at the part, Daddy. Park, Asmaan, sleepy Solanka tried to teach

his son. Say park. Part. Where are you, Daddy, are you at home? Are
you not coming back? I should have put you in the car, Daddy, I
should have taken you to the sings. Swings. Say swings. I should have
taken you to the sa-wings, Daddy. Morgen pushed me higher and
higher. Are you binging me a peasant? Say bringing, Asmaan. Say
present. You can do it. Are you ba-ringing me a pa-resent, Daddy?
What’s inside it? Will I like it very much? Daddy, you not going away
anymore. I won’t let you. I had an ice team in the part. Morgen
bought it. It was very nice. Ice cream, Asmaan. Say ice cream. Ice ta-
ream.
Eleanor came on to the line. “I’m sorry, he came downstairs and
pushed the button all by himself. I’m afraid I didn’t wake up.” Oh,
that’s okay, Solanka replied, and there followed a long silence. Then
Eleanor unsteadily said, “Malik, I just don’t know what’s going on. I’m
falling apart here. Can’t we, if you don’t want to come to London I
could get on a, I could leave Asmaan with his grandma and we could
sit down and try to work this thing, whatever it is, oh God I don’t
even know what it is!, couldn’t we work it out? Or do you just hate
me now, do I all of a sudden disgust you for some reason? Is there
someone else? There must be, mustn’t there? Who is it? For God’s
sake tell me, at least that would make sense, and then I could just be
fucking furious with you instead of going slowly out of my mind.”
The truth was that her voice still lacked any trace of real wrath. Yet
he had abandoned her without a word, Solanka thought: surely her
grief would turn, sooner or later, to rage? Perhaps she would let her
solicitor express it for her, unleashing against him the cold rage of the
law. But he could not see her as a second Bronislawa Rhinehart. There
was simply no vindictiveness in her nature. But for there to be so little
anger: that was inhuman, even a little frightening. Or, alternatively,
proof of what everybody was thinking and what Morgen and
afterward Lin Franz had put into words: that she was the better
person of the two of them, too good for him, and, once she had
recovered from the pain, would be better off without him. None of
which would be any comfort to her right now, or to the child to
whose arms he did not dare—for the sake of the boy’s safety—to
return.
For he knew he had not shaken the Furies off. A low, simmering,
disconnected anger continued to seep and flow deep within him,
threatening to rise up without warning in a mighty volcanic burst; as

if it were its own master, as if he were merely the receptacle, the host,
and it, the fury, were the sentient, controlling being. In spite of all the
apparently necromantic strides of science these were prosaic times, in
which everything was deemed capable of explication and
comprehension; and throughout his life Professor Solanka, the Malik
Solanka who had latterly become conscious of the inexplicable within
himself, had been firmly of the prosaic party, the party of reason and
science in its original and broadest meaning: scientia, knowledge. Yet
even in these microscopically observed and interminably explicated
days, what was bubbling inside him defied all explanations. There is
that within us, he was being forced to concede, which is capricious
and for which the language of explanation is inappropriate. We are
made of shadow as well as light, of heat as well as dust. Naturalism,
the philosophy of the visible, cannot capture us, for we exceed. We
fear this in ourselves, our boundary-breaking, rule-disproving, shape-
shifting, transgressive, trespassing shadow-self, the true ghost in our
machine. Not in the afterlife, or in any improbably immortal sphere,
but here on earth the spirit escapes the chains of what we know
ourselves to be. It may rise in wrath, inflamed by its captivity, and lay
reason’s world to waste.
What was true of him, he found himself thinking once again, might
also be true to some degree of everyone. The whole world was
burning on a shorter fuse. There was a knife twisting in every gut, a
scourge for every back. We were all grievously provoked. Explosions
were heard on every side. Human life was now lived in the moment
before the fury, when the anger grew, or the moment during—the
fury’s hour, the time of the beast set free—or in the ruined aftermath
of a great violence, when the fury ebbed and chaos abated, until the
tide began, once again, to turn. Craters—in cities, in deserts, in
nations, in the heart—had become commonplace. People snarled and
cowered in the rubble of their own misdeeds.
In spite of all Mila Milo’s ministrations (or, often, because of them)
Professor Solanka still needed, on his frequent insomniac nights, to
still his boiling thoughts by walking the city streets for hours, even in
the rain. They were digging up Amsterdam Avenue, the sidewalk as
well as the pavement, just a couple of blocks away (some days it
seemed as if they were digging up the whole town), and one night as
he was out walking through a medium to heavy downpour past the
untidily fenced off hole he stubbed his toe on something and burst

into a three-minute tirade of invective, at the end of which an
admiring voice came from beneath an oilcloth in a doorway, “Man,
sure learned some new vocabulary tonight.” Solanka looked down to
see what had bruised his foot, and there, lying on the sidewalk, was a
broken lump of concrete paving-stone; upon seeing which he broke
into an ungainly limping run, fleeing that concrete lump like a guilty
man leaving the scene of a crime.
Ever since the investigation of the three society killings had focused
on the three rich boys, he had felt lighter of spirit, but in his heart of
hearts he had not yet fully exonerated himself. He followed reports of
the investigation with care. There had still been no arrests and no
confessions, and the news media were growing restive; the possibility
of an upper-crust serial killer was juicily enticing, and the N.Y.P.D.’s
failure to crack the case was all the more frustrating as a result. Give
those swanky no-goodniks the third degree! One of them must break!
An unappetizing lynch-mob atmosphere was generated by this kind of
speculative commentary, of which there was much to be found.
Solanka’s attention was captured by the one possible new lead. Mr.
Panama Hat had been replaced in the unsolved mystery’s dramatis
personae by an even stranger group of characters. People in fancy-
dress Disney costumes had been sighted near each of the three murder
scenes: a Goofy near Lauren Klein’s corpse, a Buzz Lightyear near the
body of Belinda Booken Candell, and where Saskia Schuyler lay a
passerby had spotted a red fox in Lincoln green: Robin Hood himself,
tormentor of the bad old Sheriff of Notting Ham, and now also
eluding the Sheriffs of Manhattan. Oo-de-lally! Detectives admitted
that a significant connection between the three sightings was
impossible to establish for sure, but the coincidence was certainly
striking—Halloween being many months away—and they were
keeping it very much in mind.
In the minds of children, Solanka thought, the creatures of the
imagined world—characters from books or videos or songs—actually
felt more solidly real than did most living people, parents excepted.
As we grew, the balance shifted and fiction was relegated to the
separate reality, the world apart in which we were taught that it
belonged. Yet here was macabre proof of fiction’s ability to cross that
supposedly impermeable frontier. Asmaan’s world—Disney World—
was trespassing in New York and murdering the city’s young women.
And one or more very scary boys were concealed somewhere in this

video, too.
At least there had been no more Concrete Killer murders for a
while. Also, and for this Solanka did give Mila credit, he was drinking
a good deal less, and as a result there had been no more amnesiac
stupors: he no longer woke up in his street clothes with terrible
unanswerable questions in his aching head. There were even moments
when, as he fell under Mila’s spell, he had come close, for the first
time in months, to something very like happiness. And yet the dark
goddesses still hovered over him, dripping their malevolence into his
heart. While Mila was with him, in that wood-paneled space in which,
even when thunderstorms darkened the sky, they no longer troubled
to switch on any electric lights, he was held within the magic circle of
her charm; but as soon as she left, the noises in his head began again.
The murmuring, the beating of black wings. After his first dawn
phone conversation with Asmaan and Eleanor, as the knife twisted in
him, the murmurs turned for the first time against Mila, his angel of
mercy, his living doll.
This was her face in the half-light, its knife-edge planes moving
comfortably against his half-unbuttoned shirt, the short, erect, red-
gold hair brushing the underside of his chin. The reenactments of old
TV shows had stopped, a pretense whose purpose had been served.
These days, in the slow darkened afternoons, they barely spoke, and
when they did, it was no longer of philosophy. Sometimes for an
instant her tongue lapped at his breast. Everybody needs a doll to play
with, she whispered. Professor, you poor angry man, it’s been so long.
Shh, there’s no hurry, take your time, I’m not going anywhere,
nobody’s going to disturb us, I’m here for you. Let it go. You don’t
need it anymore, all that rage. You just need to remember how to
play. These were her long fingers, with their blood-red nails, finding
their way, by the smallest of daily increments, further inside his shirt.
Her physical memory was extraordinary. Each time she visited him,
she could take up exactly the position on his cushioned lap that she
had reached at the end of her last visit. The placing of her head and
hands, the tightness with which her body curled into itself, the exact
weight with which she leaned against him: her high-precision
remembering, and infinitesimal adjustment, of these variables were
themselves prodigiously arousing sexual acts. For the veils were
falling away from their play, as Mila showed Professor Solanka with
each (daily more explicit) touch. The effect on Professor Solanka of

Mila’s strengthening caresses was electric all right, at his age and in
his situation in life he had not looked to receive such benison ever
again. Yes, she had turned his head, had set out to do so while
pretending to be doing nothing of the sort, and now he was deeply
enmeshed in her web. The queen webspyder, mistress of the whole
webspyder posse, had him in her net.
Then there was another change. Just as he had let slip a doll’s
name, accidentally or under the pressure of a barely conscious desire,
so one afternoon she too let a forbidden word pass her lips. At once
that shuttered and darkened sitting room had been magically flooded
with lurid, revelatory light, and Professor Malik Solanka knew Mila
Milo’s backstory. It was always my dad and me, she had said it
herself, always him and me against the world. There it was in her own
undisguised words. She had laid it right out in front of Solanka and he
had been too blind (or too unwilling?) to see what she had so openly
and unashamedly shown. But as Solanka looked at her in the
aftermath of her “slip of the tongue”—which he was already more
than half convinced had been no slip, for this was a woman of
formidable self-control, to whom accidents most likely never
happened—those sharp and somehow cryptic facial planes, those
slanting eyes, that face which was most closed when it looked most
open, that wise little private smile, at last revealed their secrets.
Papi, she had said. That treacherous diminutive, that freighted term
of endearment meant for a dead man’s ear, had served as the open-
sesame to her lightless childhood cave. There sat the widowed poet
and his precocious child. There was a cushion on his lap and she, year
after year, curling and uncurling, moving against him, kissing dry his
tears of shame. This was the heart of her, the daughter who sought to
compensate her father for the loss of the woman he loved, no doubt in
part to assuage her own loss by clinging to the parent who remained,
but also to supplant that woman in this man’s affections, to fill the
forbidden, vacated maternal space more fully than it had been filled
by her dead mother, for he must need her, must need living Mila,
more than he had ever needed his wife; she would show him new
depths of needing, until he wanted her more than he had known he
could want any woman’s touch. This father—after his own experience
of Mila’s powers, Solanka was utterly sure of what had happened—
was slowly wooed by his child, seduced millimeter by millimeter into
the undiscovered country, toward his never-discovered crime. Here

was the great writer, l’écrivain nobélisable, the conscience of his
people, suffering those appallingly knowledgeable little hands to
move at the buttons of his shirt, and at some point allowing the
unallowable, crossing the frontier from which there can be no return,
and beginning, tormentedly but eagerly, too, to participate. Thus was
a religious man brought forever into mortal sin, forced by desire to
renounce his God and sign the Devil’s treaty, while the burgeoning
girl, his demon child, the goblin in the heart of the flower, whispered
the vertiginous faith-murdering words that sucked him down: this
isn’t happening unless we say it is, and we don’t say it is, do we, Papi,
so it’s not. And because nothing was happening, nothing was wrong.
The dead poet had entered that world of fantasy where everything is
always safe, where the crocodile never catches Hook and a little boy
never grows tired of his toys. So Malik Solanka saw his mistress’s real
self unveiled, and said, “This is an echo, isn’t it, Mila, a reprise. You
sang this song once before.” And immediately, silently corrected
himself. No, don’t flatter yourself. Not just once. You are by no means
the first.
Shh, she said, laying a finger across his lips. Shh, Papi, no. Nothing
happened then and it’s not happening now. Her second use of the
incriminating nickname had a new, pleading quality to it. She needed
this, needed him to allow it. The spider was caught in her own
necrophiliac web, dependent on men like Solanka to raise her lover
very, very slowly from the dead. Thank the God who doesn’t exist that
I have no daughters, Malik Solanka thought. Then misery choked him.
No daughter, and I have also lost my son. Elián the Icon has gone
home to Cárdenas, Cuba, with his papa but I can’t go home to my boy.
Mila’s lips were against his neck now, moving over his Adam’s apple,
and he felt a gentle suction. The pain ebbed; and something more,
too, was taken. His words were being removed from him. She was
drawing them out and swallowing them and he would never be able
to say them again, the words describing the thing that was not, that
the spider-sorceress in her black majesty would never permit to be.
And what if, Solanka wildly conjectured, she was feeding off his
fury? What if she was hungriest for what he feared most, the goblin
anger within? For she was driven by fury also, he knew that, by the
wild imperative fury of her hidden need. At that moment of revelation
Solanka could easily have believed that this beautiful, accursed girl,
whose weight was moving with such suggestive languor on his lap,

whose fingertips touched his chest hair as faintly as a summer breeze
and whose lips were working softly at his throat, might actually be
the very incarnation of a Fury, one of the three deadly sisters, the
scourges of mankind. Fury was their divine nature and boiling human
wrath their favorite food. He could have persuaded himself that
behind her low whispers, beneath her unfailingly even tempered
tones, he could hear the Erinnyes’ shrieks.
Another page of her back-story revealed itself to him. Here was the
poet Milo with his weak heart. This gifted, driven man had ignored all
medical advice and continued, with an almost ludicrous excessiveness,
to drink, smoke, and womanize. His daughter had offered an
explanation of Conradian grandeur for this behavior: life must be
lived until it can be lived no more. But as Solanka’s eyes opened he
saw a different picture of the poet, a portrait of the artist fleeing into
excess from grievous sin, from what he must have daily believed to be
his soul’s death, its condemnation for all eternity to the most
agonizing circle of Hell. Then came that last journey, Papi Milo’s
suicidal flight toward his murderous namesake. This, too, now
conveyed to Malik Solanka something other than Mila had made it
mean. Fleeing one evil, Milo had gone to face what he thought of as
the lesser peril. Escaping the consuming Fury, his daughter, he ran
toward his full, unabbreviated name, toward himself. Mila, thought
Solanka, you probably drove your maddened father to his death. And
what, now, might you have in store for me?
He knew one frightening answer to that. At least one veil still hung
between them, over not her story but his. He had known from the first
minute of this illicit liaison that he was playing with fire, that
everything he had driven deep down within himself was being stirred,
the seals were being broken one by one, and that the past, which had
almost destroyed him once before, might yet be given a second chance
to finish the job. Between this new, unlooked-for story and that old,
suppressed tale the unarticulated resonances echoed. This question of
dollification and its. The matter of allowing oneself to be. Of having
no choice but. Of the slavery of childhood when. Of need: this one’s
that one’s most inexorable. Of the power of doctors to. Of the child’s
impotence in the face of. Of the innocence of children in. Of the
child’s guilt, its fault, its most grievous fault. Above all the matter of
sentences that must never be completed, because to complete them
would release the fury, and the crater of that explosion would

consume everything at hand.
Oh, weakness, weakness! He still couldn’t refuse her. Even knowing
her as he now did, even understanding her true capabilities and
intuiting his possible peril, he couldn’t send her away. A mortal who
makes love to a goddess is doomed, but once chosen cannot avoid his
fate. She continued to visit him, all dolled up, just the way he wanted
her, and every day there was progress. The polar ice-cap was melting.
Soon the level of the ocean would rise too high and they would surely
drown.
When he left the apartment nowadays he felt like an ancient
sleeper, rising. Outside, in America, everything was too bright, too
loud, too strange. The city had come out in a rash of painfully
punning cows. At Lincoln Center Solanka ran into Moozart and
Moodama Butterfly. Outside the Beacon Theatre a trio of horned and
uddered divas had taken up residence: Whitney Mooston, Mooriah
Cowrey, and Bette Midler (the Bovine Miss M). Bewildered by this
infestation of paronomasticating livestock, Professor Solanka suddenly
felt like a visitor from Lilliput-Blefuscu or the moon or, to be
straightforward, London. He was alienated, too, by the postage
stamps, by the monthly, rather than quarterly, payment of gas,
electricity, and telephone bills, by the unknown brands of candy in
the stores (Twinkies, Ho Hos, Ring Pops), by the words “candy” and
“stores,” by the armed policemen on the streets, by the anonymous
faces in magazines, faces that all Americans somehow recognized at
once, by the indecipherable words of popular songs which American
ears could apparently make out without strain, by the end-loaded
pronunciation of names like Farrar, Harrell, Candell, by the broadly
spoken e’s that turned expression into axprassion, I’ll get the check into
I’ll gat the chack; by, in short, the sheer immensity of his ignorance of
the engulfing melee of ordinary American life. Little Brain’s memoirs
filled bookstore windows here as well as in Britain, but that brought
him no joy. The successful writers of the moment were unknown to
him. Eggers, Pilcher: they sounded like they belonged on a restaurant
menu, not a bestseller list.
Eddie Ford was often to be seen sitting alone on the neighboring
stoop as Professor Solanka returned home—the websypders were
evidently busy with their nets—and in the banked fire of the blond
centurion’s slow-burn gaze Malik Solanka imagined he saw the
belated beginnings of suspicion. Nothing was said between them,

however. They nodded at each other briefly and left it at that. Then
Malik entered his paneled retreat and waited for his deity to come. He
took up his place in the large leather armchair that had become their
preferred place of ease and set upon his lap the red velvet cushion
with which, thus far, he had continued to protect what remained of
his heavily compromised modesty. He closed his eyes and listened to
the ticking of the mantelpiece’s antique carriage clock. And at some
point Mila came soundlessly in—he had given her a set of keys—and
what was to be done, what she insisted was not being done at all, was
quietly done.
In that charmed space, during Mila’s visits, almost complete silence
remained the norm. There were murmurs and whispers but no more.
However, in the last quarter hour or so before she left, after she
briskly leapt off his lap, smoothed her dress, and brought them both a
glass of cranberry juice or a cup of green tea, and while she adjusted
herself for the outside world, Solanka could offer her, if he so desired,
his hypotheses on the country whose codes he was trying to unlock.
For example, Professor Solanka’s as-yet-unpublished theory on the
differing attitudes toward oral sex in the United States and England—
this aria being prompted by the president’s inane decision to start
apologizing yet again for what he should always have crisply said was
nobody else’s business—got a sympathetic hearing from the young
woman snuggled down on his lap. “In England,” he explained in his
most straitlaced style, “the heterosexual b.j. is almost never offered or
received before full, penetrative coitus has taken place, and
sometimes not even then. It’s considered a sign of deep intimacy. Also
a sexual reward for good behavior. It’s rare. Whereas in America, with
your well-established tradition of teenage, ah, ‘makeouts’ in the backs
of various iconic automobiles, ‘giving head,’ to use the technical term,
precedes ‘full’ missionary-position sex more often than not; indeed, it’s
the most common way for young girls to preserve their virginity while
keeping their sweethearts satisfied.
“In short, an acceptable alternative to fucking. Thus, when Clinton
affirms that he had never had sex with that woman, Moonica, the
Bovine Ms. L., everyone in England thinks he’s a pink-faced liar,
whereas the whole of teen (and much of pre- and post-teen) America
understands that he’s telling the truth, as culturally defined in these
United States. Oral sex is precisely not sex. It’s what enables young
girls to come home and with their hands on their hearts tell their

parents—hell, it probably enabled you to tell your father—that you
hadn’t ‘done it.’ So Slick Willy, Billy the Clint, has just been parroting
what any red-blooded American teenager would have said. Arrested
development? Okay, probably so, but this was why the impeachment
of the president failed.”
“I see what you mean.” Mila Milo nodded when he was done, and
returned to his side, in an unexpected and overwhelming escalation of
their end-of-afternoon routine, to remove the red velvet cushion from
his helpless lap.
That evening, encouraged by whispering Mila, he returned with
new fire to his old craft. There’s so much inside you, waiting, she had
said. I can feel it, you’re bursting with it. Here, here. Put it into your
work, Papi. The furia. Okay? Make sad dolls if you’re sad, mad dolls if
you’re mad. Professor Solanka’s new badass dolls. We need a tribe of
dolls like that. Dolls that say something. You can do it. I know you
can, because you made Little Brain. Make me dolls that come from her
neighborhood—from that wild place in your heart. The place that isn’t
a little middle-aged guy under a pile of old clothes. This place. The
place for me. Blow me away, Papi. Make me forget her! Make adult
dolls, R-rated, NC-17 dolls. I’m not a kid anymore, right? Make me
dolls I want to play with now.
He understood at last what Mila did for her webspyders other than
dress them more fashionably than they could manage for themselves.
The word “muse” was attached sooner or later to almost all beautiful
women seen with gifted men, and no self-respecting, Chinese fan-
twirling leader of fashion would currently be seen dead without one,
but most such women were more amusement than muse. The true
muse was a treasure beyond price, and Mila, Solanka discovered, was
capable of being genuinely inspiring. Just moments after her potent
urgings, Solanka’s ideas, so long congealed and dammed, began to
burn and flow. He went out shopping and came home with crayons,
paper, clay, wood, knives. Now his days would be full, and most of his
nights as well. Now, when he awoke fully dressed, the street smell
would not be on his clothes, nor would the odor of strong drink foul
his breath. He would awake at his workbench with the tools of his
trade in his hand. New figurines would be watching him through
mischievous, glittering eyes. A new world was forming in him, and he
had Mila to thank for the divine afflatus: the breath of life.
Joy and relief coursed through him in long uncontrollable shudders.

Like that other shudder at the end of Mila’s last visit, when the
cushion came off his lap. The ending he had waited for like the addict
he had become. Inspiration also soothed another, growing trouble in
him. He had begun to entertain fears about Mila, to hypothesize a
great, dangerous selfishness in her, an overarching ambition that
made her see others, himself included, as mere stepping-stones on her
own journey to the stars. Did those brilliant boys really need her?
Solanka had begun to wonder. (And came close to the next question:
Do I?) He had glimpsed a possible new incarnation of his living doll—
in which Mila was Circe, and at her feet sat her oinking swine—but
now he pushed that dark vision aside; also its even more ferocious
companion, the vision of Mila as Fury, as Tisiphone, Alecto, or
Megaera come down to earth in a cloak of sumptuous flesh. Mila had
justified herself. She had provided the spur that had sent him back to
work.
On the cover of a leather-bound notebook he scribbled the words
“Professor Kronos’s Amazing No-Strings Puppet Kings.” And then
added: “Or, Revolt of the Living Dolls.” And then, “Or, Lives of the
Puppet Caesars.” Then he crossed out everything except the two
words “Puppet Kings,” opened the notebook, and in a great rush
began to write the back-story of the demented genius who would be
his anti-hero.
Akasz Kronos, the great, amoral cyberneticist of the Rijk, he began,
created the Puppet Kings in response to the terminal crisis of the Rijk
civilization, but, on account of the deep and unimprovable flaw in his
character that made him unable to consider the issue of the general good,
intended them to guarantee nobody’s survival or fortune but his own.
Jack Rhinehart rang the next afternoon, sounding wired. “Malik,
wassup. You still living like a guru in an ice cave? Or a castaway on
Big Brother Is Not Watching You? Or does news from the outside world
still reach you from time to time.—You heard the one about the
Buddhist monk in the bar? He goes up to the Tom Cruise clone with
the cocktail shaker and says, ‘Make me one with everything.’—Listen:
you know a broad by the name of Lear? Claims to have been your
wife. Seems to me nobody deserves as much bad luck as being married
to that honey. She’s like one hundred and ten years old, and ornery as
a cut snake. Oh, and on the subject of wives? I’m divorced. It turned

out to be easy. I just gave her everything.”
Everything really was everything, he amplified: the cottage in the
Springs, the fabled wine shack, and several hundreds of thousands of
dollars. “And this is all right with you?” Solanka asked, astonished.
“Yeah, yeah,” Rhinehart gabbled. “You should have seen Bronnie. Jaw
on the floor. Grabbed the offer so fast I thought she’d herniate. So, can
you believe it, she’s gone. She’s toast. It’s Neela, man. I don’t know
how to say this, but she eased something in me. She made it all okay.”
His voice became boyish-conspiratorial. “Have you ever seen anyone
actually stop traffic? I mean one hundred percent without question
arrest the motion of motor vehicles just by being around? She has that
power. She climbs out of a cab and five cars and two fire trucks
screech to a halt. Also, walking into lampposts. I never believed it
happened outside of Mack Sennett slapstick two-reelers. Now I see
guys do it every day. Sometimes, in restaurants,” Rhinehart confided,
bubbling with glee, “I’d ask her to walk to the women’s room and
back, just so I could watch the men at the other tables get whiplash
injuries. Can you imagine, Malik, my regrettably celibate friend, what
it was like to be with that? I mean, every night?”
“You always did have an ugly turn of phrase,” Solanka said,
wincing. He changed the subject. “About Sara? Talk about rising from
the grave. What cemetery did you find her in?” “Oh, the usual,”
Rhinehart replied tightly. “Southampton.” His ex-wife, Solanka
learned, had at the age of fifty married one of the richest men in
America, the cattle-feed tycoon Lester Schofield III, now aged ninety-
two, and on her recent, fifty-seventh, birthday had instituted divorce
proceedings on the grounds of Schofield’s adultery with Ondine, a
Brazilian runway model of twenty-three. “Schofield made his billions
by working out that what’s left of a grape after making grape juice
would make a great dinner for a cow,” Rhinehart said, and moved
into his most exaggerated Uncle Remus manner. “And now yo’ ole
lady she done had de same idea. She puttin’ de big squeeze on him, I
reckon. Gwine en’ up bein’ dat well-fed heifer hersel’.” All over the
Eastern seaboard, it seemed, the young were climbing onto the laps of
the old, offering the dying the poisoned chalice of themselves and
causing nine kinds of havoc. Marriages and fortunes were foundering
daily on these young rocks. “Miz Sara gave an interview,” Rhinehart
told Solanka, much too merrily, “in which she announced her
intention of chopping up her husband into three equal parts, planting

one on each of his major properties, and then spending a third of the
year with each, to express her appreciation for his love. You lucky to
‘scape old Sara when you were po’, boy. Dat Bride of Wildenstein? Dat
Miz Patricia Duff? Dey doan’ even come close in de Divo’ce ‘Lympics.
Dis lady get de gol’ medal, sho’ nuff. Perfesser, she done read her
Shakespeare.” There were rumors that the whole thing was a cynical
sting operation—that, in short, Sara Lear Schofield had put the
Brazilian swan up to it—but no proof of any such conspiracy had been
found.
What was the matter with Rhinehart? If he was as deeply satisfied
as he claimed, both with his own divorce and with l’affaire Neela, why
was he veering at such breakneck speed between sexual crudity—
which, in fact, was very much not his usual style—and this clumsy
Sara Lear material? “Jack,” Solanka asked his friend, “you really are
okay, right? Because if …” “I’m fine,”Jack interrupted in his most
stretched, brittle voice. “Hey, Malik? Dis here’s Br’er Jack, girlfrien’.
Bawn an’ bred in a briar patch. Chill.”
Neela Mahendra called an hour later. “Do you remember? We met
during that football game. The Dutch thrashing Serbia.” “They still
call it Yugoslavia in football circles,” Solanka said, “on account of
Montenegro. But yes, of course I remember. You’re not that easy to
forget.” She didn’t even acknowledge the compliment, receiving such
flattery as a minimum: her merest due. “Can we meet? It’s about Jack.
I need to talk to someone. It’s important.” She meant immediately,
was used to men abandoning, when she beckoned, whatever plans
they had made. “I’m across the park from you,” she said. “Can we
meet outside the Metropolitan Museum in let’s say half an hour?”
Solanka, already worried about his friend’s well-being, more worried
as a result of this phone call, and—yes, very well!—unable to resist
the summons from gorgeous Neela, got up to go, even though these
had become his day’s most precious hours: Mila’s time. He put on a
light overcoat—it was a dry but overcast and unseasonably cool day—
and opened the apartment’s front door. Mila stood there with his
spare key in her hand. “Oh,” she said, seeing the coat. “Oh. Okay.” In
that first instant, when she’d been taken by surprise, before she had
time to gather herself, he glimpsed her face naked, so to speak. What
was there, without question, was disappointed hunger. The vulpine
hunger of an animal denied its—he tried not to think the word, but it
forced its way in—its prey.

“I’ll be back soon,” he said lamely, but she had recovered her
composure now, and shrugged. “No big deal.” They went through the
outside door of the building together and he walked rapidly away
from her, toward Columbus Avenue, not looking around, knowing
that she’d be with Eddie on the neighboring stoop, angrily sticking a
thirsty tongue down his bemused, delighted throat. There were
posters everywhere for The Cell, the new Jennifer Lopez movie. In it,
Lopez was miniaturized and injected into the brain of a serial killer. It
sounded like a remake of Fantastic Voyage, starring Raquel Welch, but
so what? Nobody remembered the original. Everything’s a copy, an
echo of the past, thought Professor Solanka. A song for Jennifer: We’re
living in a retro world and I am a retrograde girl.

11
“In the future, sure theen’, they don’t listen no more to this type talk
radio. Or, jou know wha’ I theen’? Porhap’ the radio weel listen to oss.
We’ll be like the entortainmon’ and the machines weel be the audien’,
an’ own the station, and we all like work for them.”—“Yo, lissen up.
Dunno what jive sci-fi crap ol’ Speedy Gonzalez there was handin’ out.
Sound to me like he rent The Matrix too many times. Where I’m sittin’
the future plain ain’t arrive. Ever’thin’ look the same. I mean the exact
same shinola goin’ down all over. Ever’body in the same
accommodation, gettin’ the same education, doin’ the same
recreation, lookin’ for the same … ploymentation. Check it out. We
gettin’ the same bills, datin’ the same girls, goin’ to the same jails;
gettin’ paid bad, laid bad ‘n’ made bad, am I right? That would be cor-
recto, señor. And my radio? It come wit’ a on-off switch, daddy-o, and
I turn that sucker off anytime I choose.”—“Boy, does he don’ get eet.
That guy jus’ now, he don’ get eet so bad he won’t see eet comin’ till
eet sittin’ on his face. Jou better wise up, hermano. They got machine
now eat food for fuel, jou hear that? No more gasoline. Eat human
food like jou an’ me. Pizza, chili dog, tuna melt, whatev’. Pretty soon
Mr. Machine gonna be takin’ a table in a restauran’. Gonna be, like,
gimme the bes’ booth. Now jou tell me what’s the differen’? If eet
eatin’, eet alive, I say. The future here, man, right now, jou better
watch jou butt. Pretty soon Mr. Live Machine gonna be comin’ for that
employmentation jou talkin’ ‘bout, maybe for jour pretty girlfrien’
too.”—“Hey, hey, my paranoid Latino friend, Ricky Ricardo, I missed
the name, but slow down, Desi, okay? This here’s not that communist
Cuba you escaped from in yo’ rubber boat an’ got sanctuary in the
land of the free …” “Don’ insul’ me, please, now. I’m sayin’ please,
because I was raise polite, no? The brother here, how he’s call, Señor
Cleef Hoxtaboo’ or Mr. No Good from the ‘Hood, maybe hees mother

never tol’ heem right, but we goin’ out live on air here, we talkin’ to
the whole metro region, less keep eet clean.”—“Can I get in here?
Excuse me? I’m listening to all this?, and I’m thinking, they have
electronically generated TV presenters now?, and there’s dead actors
selling motor vehicles?, Steve McQueen in that car?, so I’m more with
our Cuban friend?, the technology scares me? And so in the future?,
like, will anyone even be thinking about our like needs? I’m an
actress?, I work mainly in commercials?, and there’s this big SAG
strike?, and for months now I can’t earn a dollar?, and it doesn’t stop
one single spot going on air?, because they can get Lara Croft?, Jar
Jar Binks?, they can get Gable or Bogey or Marilyn or Max Headroom
or HAL from 2001?”—“I’m going to interrupt, ma’am, because we’re
out of time and this is something I know a lot of people feel strongly
about. Can’t blame cutting-edge technological innovation for the fix
your union’s got you in. You chose socialism, union made your bed,
now you’re lying in it. My personal take on the future? You can’t turn
back the clock, so go with the flow and ride the tide. Be the new
thing. Seize the day. From sea to shining sea.”
Sitting on the steps of the great museum, caught in a sudden burst
of slanting, golden afternoon sunlight, scanning the Times while he
waited for Neela, Professor Malik Solanka felt more than ever like a
refugee in a small boat, caught between surging tides: reason and
unreason, war and peace, the future and the past. Or like a boy in a
rubber ring who watched his mother slip under the black water and
drown. And after the terror and the thirst and the sunburn there was
the noise, the incessant adversarial buzz of voices on a taxi driver’s
radio, drowning his own inner voice, making thought impossible, or
choice, or peace. How to defeat the demons of the past when the
demons of the future were all around him in full cry? The past was
rising up; it could not be denied. As well as Sara Lear, here in the TV
listings was Krysztof Waterford-Wajda’s little Ms. Pinch-ass back from
the dead. Perry Pincus—she must be, what, forty by now—had
written a tell-all book about her years as the eggheads’ premier
groupie, Men with Pens, and Charlie Rose was talking to her about it
this very night. Oh poor Dubdub, Malik Solanka thought. This is the
girl you wanted to settle down with, and now she’s going to dance on
your grave. If tonight it’s Charlie—“Tell me what sort of qualms this
project gave you, Perry; as an intellectual yourself, you must have had
serious misgivings. Say how you overcame those scruples”—then

tomorrow it’ll be Howard Stern: “Chicks dig writers. But then, a lot of
writers dug this chick.” Halloween, Walpurgisnacht, did indeed seem
to be early this year. The witches were gathering for their sabbat.
Yet another story was being half told behind his back; another
stranger’s fairy tale of the city poured into his defenseless ear. “Yeah,
it went great, honey. No, no problems, I’m en route to the trustees’
meeting, that’s why I’m calling you on my cell. Conscious all the time,
but doped-up, sure. So, semiconscious. Yeah, the knife comes right at
your eyeball, but the chemical assistance makes you think it’s a
feather. No, no bruising, and let me tell you it’s amazing what my
visual world now contains. Amazing grace, yeah, good one. Was blind
but now I see. Really. Look at all this stuff out here. I’ve been missing
so much. Well, think about it. He really is the laser king. I asked
around a lot as you know and the same name kept coming up. A little
dryness is all, but that goes away in a few weeks, he says. Okay, love
ya. I’ll be home late. What can you do. Don’t wait up.” And of course
he turned around, of course he saw that the young woman was not
alone, a man was nuzzling at her even as she flipped her cell phone
shut. She, gladly allowing herself to be nuzzled, met Solanka’s eye;
and, seeing herself caught in her lie, beamed guiltily, and shrugged.
What can you do, as she had said on the phone. The heart has its
reasons, and we are all the servants of love.
Twenty minutes to ten in London. Asmaan would be asleep. Five
and a half hours later in India. Turn the watch upside down in London
and you got the time in the town of Malik Solanka’s birth, the
Forbidden City by the Arabian Sea. That, too, was coming back. The
thought filled him with dread: of what, driven by his long-sealed-
away fury, he might become. Even after all these years it defined him,
had not lost any of its power over him. And if he finished the
sentences of that untold tale? … That question must be for another
day. He shook his head. Neela was late. Solanka put down his
newspaper, pulled a piece of wood and a Swiss Army knife out of an
overcoat pocket, and began, with complete absorption, to whittle.
“Who is he?” Neela Mahendra’s shadow fell across him. The sun
was behind her, and in silhouette she looked even taller than he
remembered. “He’s an artist,” Solanka replied. “The most dangerous
man in the world.” She dusted off a spot on the museum steps and sat
down beside him. “I don’t believe you,” she said. “I know a lot of
dangerous men, and none of them ever created a credible work of art.

Also, trust me, not a single one of them was made of wood.” They sat
there in silence for a while, he whittling, she simply still, offering the
world the gift of her being in it. Afterward Malik Solanka,
remembering their first moments alone together, would dwell
particularly on the silence and stillness, on how easy that had been. “I
fell in love with you when you weren’t saying a word,” he told her.
“How was I to know you were the most talkative woman on earth? I
know a lot of talkative women and, trust me, compared to you, every
single one of them was made of wood.”
After a few minutes he put the half-finished figure away and
apologized for being so distracted. “No apology required,” she said.
“Work is work.” They got up to make their way down the great flight
of steps toward the park, and as she rose, a man slipped on the step
above her and rolled heavily and painfully down a dozen or more
steps, narrowly missing Neela on his way down; his fall was broken by
a group of schoolgirls sitting screaming in his way. Professor Solanka
recognized the man as the one who had been necking so
enthusiastically with the mobile-phone prevaricator. He looked
around for Ms. Cell Phone, and after a moment spotted her storming
off uptown on foot, hailing off-duty cabs that ignored her angry arm.
Neela was wearing a knee-length mustard-colored scarf dress in silk.
Her black hair was twisted up into a tight chignon and her long arms
were bare. A cab stopped and expelled its passenger just in case she
needed a ride. A hot dog vendor offered her anything she wanted, free
of charge: “Just eat it here, lady, so I can watch you do it.”
Experiencing for the first time the effect about which Jack Rhinehart
had been so vulgarly effusive, Solanka felt as if he were escorting one
of the Met’s more important possessions down an awestruck Fifth
Avenue. No: the masterpiece he was thinking of was at the Louvre.
With a light breeze blowing the dress against her body, she looked
like the Winged Victory of Samothraki, only with the head on. “Nike,”
he said aloud, puzzling her. “It’s who you remind me of,” he clarified.
She frowned. “I make you think of sportswear?”
Sportswear was certainly thinking of her. As they turned into the
park, a young man in running clothes approached them, rendered
positively humble by the force of Neela’s beauty. Unable to speak
directly to her at first, he addressed himself to Solanka instead. “Sir,”
he said, “please don’t think I’m trying to hit on your daughter, that is,
I’m not asking for a date or anything, it’s just that she is the most, I

had to tell her”—and here at last he did turn toward Neela—“to tell
you, you’re the most …” A great roaring rose in Malik Solanka’s
breast. It would be good now to tear this young man’s tongue out
from that vile fleshy mouth. It would be good to see how those
muscled arms might look when detached from that highly defined
torso. Cut? Ripped? How about if he was cut and ripped into about a
million pieces? How about if I ate his fucking heart?
He felt Neela Mahendra’s hand come to rest lightly on his arm. The
fury abated as quickly as it had risen. The phenomenon, his
unpredictable temper’s rise and fall, had been so rapid that Malik
Solanka was left feeling giddy and confused. Had it really happened?
Had he really been on the verge of tearing this super-fit fellow limb
from limb? And if so, then how had Neela dissipated his anger—the
anger to combat which Solanka sometimes had to lie in darkened
rooms for hours, doing breathing exercises and visualizing red
triangles—by the merest touch? Could a woman’s hand really possess
such power? And if so (the thought offered itself to him and would
not be denied), was this not a woman to keep by his side and cherish
for the rest of his haunted life?
He shook his head to clear it of such notions and returned his
attention to the unfolding scene. Neela was giving the young runner
her most dazzling smile, a smile after receiving which it would be best
to die, for the rest of life was sure to be a big letdown. “He isn’t my
father,” she told the smile-blinded wearer of sportswear. “He’s my
live-in lover.” This information struck the poor fellow like a hammer
blow; whereupon, to underscore the point, Neela Mahendra planted
on the still-befuddled Solanka’s unprepared but nevertheless grateful
mouth a long, explicit kiss. “And, guess what?” she panted, coming up
for air to deliver the coup de grâce. “He’s absolutely fantastic in bed.”
“What was that?” a flattered, more than somewhat overcome
Professor Solanka asked her dizzily after the runner had departed,
looking as if he were off to disembowel himself with a blunt bamboo
stick. She laughed, a great wicked cackle of a noise that made even
Mila’s raucous laughter seem refined. “I could see you were on the
edge of losing it,” she said. “And I need you here right now, paying
attention, and not in a hospital or jail.” Which explained about eighty
percent of it, Solanka thought as his head stopped whirling, but didn’t
fully translate the meaning of everything she had been doing with her
tongue.

Jack! Jack! he reproved himself. The subject for this afternoon was
Rhinehart, his pal, his best buddy, and not his friend’s girlfriend’s
tongue, no matter how long and gymnastic it was. They sat on a
bench near the pond, and all around them dog walkers were colliding
with trees, Tai Chi practitioners lost their balance, rollerbladers
smashed into one another, and people out strolling just walked right
into the pond as if they’d forgotten it was there. Neela Mahendra gave
no sign of noticing any of this. A man walked past with an ice cream
cone, which, owing to his sudden but comprehensive loss of hand-to-
mouth coordination, completely missed his tongue and instead made
contact, messily, with his ear. Another young fellow began, with every
appearance of genuine emotion, to weep copiously as he jogged by.
Only the middle-aged African-American woman sitting on the next
bench (who am I calling middle-aged? She’s probably younger than I
am, Solanka thought disappointedly) seemed impervious to the Neela
factor as she ate her way through a long egg salad hero, advertising
her enjoyment of every mouthful with loud mmms and uh-huhs. Neela,
meanwhile, had eyes only for Professor Malik Solanka. “Surprisingly
good kiss, by the way,” she said. “Really. First class.”
She looked away from him, across the shining water. “It’s over
between Jack and me,” she went on quickly. “Maybe he already told
you. It’s been over for a while. I know he’s your good friend, and you
should be a good friend to him at this time, but I can’t stay with a
man once I lose respect for him.” A pause. Solanka said nothing. He
was replaying Rhinehart’s last phone call and hearing what he had
missed: the elegiac note beneath the sexual boasting. The use of the
past tense. The loss. He didn’t push Neela for the story. Let it come, he
thought. It’ll be here soon enough. “What do you think about the
election?” she asked, making one of the dramatic conversational tacks
to which Solanka would soon enough become accustomed. “I’ll tell
you what I think. I think the American voters owe it to the rest of the
world not to vote for Bush. It’s their duty. I’ll tell you what I hate,”
she added. “I hate when people say there’s no difference between the
candidates. That Gush-and-Bore stuff is getting so old. It makes me
hopping mad.” Not the moment, Solanka thought, to confess his own
guilty secrets. Neela wasn’t really expecting a reply, however. “No
difference?” she cried. “How about, for example, geography? How
about, for example, knowing where my poor little homeland is on the
damn map of the world?” Malik Solanka remembered that George W.

Bush had been ambushed by a journalist’s crafty question during a
foreign policy Q-and-A one month before the Republican convention:
“Given the growing instability of the ethnic situation in Lilliput-
Blefuscu, could you just indicate that nation to us on the map? And
what was the name of its capital city again?” Two curve balls, two
strikes.
“I’ll tell you what Jack thinks about the election.” Neela swerved
back to the subject, the color rising in her face along with her voice.
“New Jack, A-list Black-and-White-Ball Truman Capote Rhinehart, he
thinks whatever his ‘Caesars’ in their ‘Palaces’ want him to think.
Jump, Jack, and he’ll jump sky-high. Dance for us, Jack, you’re such a
great dancer, and he’ll show them all the obsolete thirty-year-old
moves old white people like, he’ll swim and hitchhike and walk the
dog, he’ll do the mash, the funky chicken and the locomotion all night
long. Make us laugh, Jack, and he’ll tell them jokes like some court
jester. You probably know his favorites. ‘After the FBI tested Monica’s
dress, they announced they couldn’t make a positive I.D. from the
stain, because everybody in Arkansas has the same DNA.’ Yeah, they
like that one, the Caesars. Vote Republican, Jack, be pro-life, Jack,
read the Bible on homosexuals, Jack, and guns don’t kill people, ain’t
that right, Jack, and he goes, yes, ma’am, people kill people. Good
dog, Jack. Roll over. Fetch. Sit up and fucking beg. Beg for it, Jack,
you ain’t gonna get it, but we do like to see a black boy on his knees.
Good dog, Jack, run off now and sleep in the kennel out the back. Oh,
darling, would you throw Jack a bone, please? He’s been so sweet.
Yes, she’ll do, she’s from the South.” Oh, so Rhinehart had been a bad
boy, Solanka thought, and he guessed that Neela wasn’t used to being
cheated on at all. She was used to being the Pied Piper, with lines of
boys following wherever she was pleased to lead.
She calmed down, slumping back on the bench, and briefly closed
her eyes. The woman on the next bench finished her hero, leaned over
to Neela, and said, “Oh, dump that boy, honey. Cancel his ass today.
You don’t need no relationship with nobody’s pet poodle.” Neela
turned to her as if greeting an old friend. “Ma’am,” she said, seriously,
“you’ve got milk in your refrigerator with a longer life than that
relationship.”
“Let’s walk now,” she commanded, and Solanka rose to his feet.
When she was sure they were out of earshot, she said, “Look, I’m
pissed at Jack, that’s one thing, but I’m scared for him, too. He really

needs a true friend, Malik. He’s in a pretty bad jam.” As Solanka had
guessed from his phone call, Rhinehart was depressed, and not only
about the collapse of his perishable milk carton of a love affair. The
Sara Lear encounter, which had begun as an interview for an article
about the power divorces of the age, had rebounded badly against
Jack. Sara had taken against him, and her enmity had hit him hard.
After the loss of the Springs place to Bronislawa, he’d found himself
the tiniest of shoe boxes in the middle of a golf course way out toward
Montauk Point. “You know his thing for Tiger Woods,” Neela said.
“Jack’s competitive. He won’t be happy till Nike—the other Nike, I
mean,” she said, flushing with undisguised pleasure, “the Nike he
hasn’t disgusted yet, starts sponsoring his game too, right down to the
swoosh on his cap.” After Rhinehart’s offer for the little house had
been accepted by the seller, two things happened in quick succession.
On Rhinehart’s third visit to the place, to which the broker had
handed him the key, the police showed up less than ten minutes after
he did and invited him to assume the position. Neighbors had
reported an intruder on the property, and he was it. It took him close
to an hour to persuade the cops that he wasn’t a burglar but a bona
fide purchaser. A week later the golf club blackballed his application
for membership. Sara’s arm was long. Rhinehart, for whom, as he
said, “being black’s just not the issue anymore,” had rediscovered, the
hard way, that it still was. “There’s a club out there that got started so
Jews could play golf,” Neela said contemptuously. “Those old Wasps
can sting. Jack should’ve known the score. I mean: Tiger Woods may
be of mixed race, but he knows his balls are black.
“That’s not the worst of it.” They had reached Bethesda Fountain.
Double takes and slapstick routines continued all around them; they
walked on until they reached a grassy slope. “Sit,” said Neela. He sat.
Neela lowered her voice. “He’s become involved with some crazy
boys, Malik. God knows why, but he really wants in with them, and
they’re the dumbest, wildest white boys you could imagine. Did you
ever hear of a secret society, it’s not even supposed to exist, called the
S & M? Even the name’s a bad joke. ‘Single and Male.’ Yeah, right.
Those boys are twisted way, way out of shape. It’s like that Skull and
Crossbones thing they have at Yale?, right?, where they buy up stuff
like Hitler’s mustache and Casanova’s dick?—only this one’s not
school-specific, and it doesn’t collect memorabilia. It collects girls,
young ladies with certain interests and skills. You’d be surprised how

many, especially if you knew the games they’re expected to play, and
I’m not talking strip poker now. Zips, nips n’ clips. Saddles, reins,
harnesses, they probably end up looking like the surrey with the
fringe on top. Or, you know, lash me with lashes and tie me with
strings, these are a few of my favorite things. Rich girls. I swear. Your
family owns a horse farm, so you get turned on being treated like a
horse? I wouldn’t know. So much that’s so desirable comes so easy to
these kids”—Neela couldn’t be more than five years older than the
dead girls, Solanka thought—“that nothing turns them on. They have
to travel further and further in search of kicks, further from home,
further from safety. The wildest places of the world, the wildest
chemicals, the wildest sex. That’s it, my five-cent Lucy analysis. Bored
little rich girls let dumb rich boys do weird stuff to them. Dumb rich
boys can’t believe their luck.”
Solanka reflected about Neela’s use of the word “kids” to describe
what were, after all, members of her own generation. The word
seemed honest in her mouth. Compared to, say, Mila—Mila, his own
guilty secret—this was an adult woman. Mila had her charms, but
they had their roots in a childlike wantonness, a greedy whimsicality
born of this same crisis of dulled response, this same need to go to
extremes, beyond extremes, in order to find what she needed in the
way of arousal. When forbidden fruit has been your daily diet, what
do you do for thrills? Lucky Mila, Solanka thought. Her rich boyfriend
hadn’t understood what he might have done with her, and had let her
go. If these other rich boys had ever heard about her, how far she was
willing to go, what taboos she was willing to ignore, she could have
been their goddess, the child-woman queen of their hidden cult. She
could have ended up in the Midtown Tunnel with a smashed-in skull.
“The affectless at play,” Solanka said aloud. “A tragedy of insulation.
The unexamined life of the folks who’ve got their units.” He had to
explain that, and was happy to hear her laugh again. “No wonder so
many of those horny gorillas—those Stashes, Clubs, and Horses—want
in, no?” Neela sighed. “The question is, why does Jack?”
Professor Malik Solanka felt his stomach tighten. “Jack’s a member
of this S & M thing?” he asked. “But aren’t these the men …”—“He’s
not a member yet,” she butted in, driven by her need to share her
terrible burden. “But he’s hammering on the door, begging to be let
in, the stupid bastard. And that’s after the evil shit in the press. Once I
knew that, I couldn’t stay with him. I’ll tell you something that wasn’t

in any of the papers,” she added, dropping her voice even further.
“Those three dead girls? They weren’t raped, they weren’t robbed,
right? But something was done to them, and that’s what really links
the three crimes, only the police don’t want it in the papers because of
the copycat problem.” Solanka was beginning to be genuinely
frightened. “What happened to them?” he asked weakly. Neela
covered her eyes with her hands. “They were scalped,” she whispered,
and wept.
To be scalped was to remain a trophy even in death. And because
rarity created value, a dead girl’s scalp in your pocket—O most
gruesome of mysteries!—might actually possess greater cachet than
would be conferred by the same girl, alive and breathing, on your arm
at a glamorous ball, or even as a willing partner in whatever sexual
antics you cared to devise. The scalp was a signifier of domination,
and to remove it, to see such a relic as desirable, was to value the
signifier above the signified. The girls, Solanka in his revolted horror
began to understand, had actually been worth more to their
murderers dead than alive.
Neela was convinced of the three boyfriends’ guilt; convinced, too,
that Jack knew a great deal more than he was telling anyone, even
her. “It’s like heroin,” she said, drying her eyes. “He’s in so deep he
doesn’t know how to get out, doesn’t want to get out, even though
staying in there will destroy him. My worry is, what is he ready to do,
and who is he ready to do it to? Was I being lined up for those
assholes’ delectation, or what? As for the killings, who knows why?
Maybe their little sex games went too far. Maybe it’s some insane sex
and power thing those rich boys have. Some blood-brother manhood
shit. Fuck the girl and kill her, and do it so damn cleverly that you get
away with it. I don’t know. Maybe I’m just expressing class
resentment here. Maybe I’ve just watched too many movies.
Compulsion. Rope. You know? ‘Why do such a thing?’ ‘Because we
can.’ Because they want to prove what little Caesars they are. How
above and beyond they are, how exalted, godlike. The law can’t touch
them. It’s such murderous crap, but Mr. Lapdog Rhinehart just goes on
being loyal. ‘You don’t know jack shit about them, Neela, they’re
decent enough young men.’ Bullshit. He’s so blind, he can’t see that
they’ll take him down with them when they go, or, worse still, maybe
they’re setting him up. He’ll take the fall for them and go to the chair
singing their praises. Jack Shit. Good name for that weak little fuck.

Right at this moment, that’s about what he means to me.”
“Why are you so sure of this?” Solanka asked her. “I’m sorry, but
you’re sounding a little wild yourself. Those three men were
questioned, but they haven’t been arrested. And as I understand it,
each of them has a solid alibi for the time his girlfriend died.
Witnesses, et cetera. One was seen in a bar, and so on, I forget.” His
heart was beating hard. For what felt like forever, he had been
accusing himself of these crimes. Knowing the disorder in his own
heart, the bubbling incoherent storm, he had linked it to the disorder
of the city, and come close to declaring himself guilty. Now, it
seemed, exoneration was at hand, but the price of his innocence just
might be his good friend’s guilt. A great turbulence was churning in
his stomach, making him nauseous. “And the scalping business,” he
forced himself to ask. “Where on earth did you hear a thing like that?”
“Oh God,” she wailed, letting the worst thing come out into the
open at last. “I was tidying his fucking wardrobe. God knows why. I
never do chores like that for a man. Get a housekeeper, you know?
That’s not what I’m for. I really dug him, I guess for about five
minutes there I allowed myself … so anyway, I was clearing up for
him, and I found, I found.” Tears again. Solanka put his hand on her
arm now, and she moved against him, hugged him hard, and sobbed.
“Goofy,” she said. “I found all three of them. The fucking man-sized
fancy-dress costumes. Goofy and Robin Hood and Buzz.”
She had confronted Rhinehart and he had blustered, badly. Yes, for a
joke, Marsalis, Andriessen, and Medford would dress up in these
outfits and spy on their girlfriends from a distance. Okay, yes, maybe
it was a joke in poor taste, but it didn’t make them killers. And they
hadn’t worn the outfits on the nights of the murders, that was
nonsense: garbled reporting. But they were afraid, wouldn’t you be,
and had asked Jack to help. “He went on and on protesting their
innocence, denying that his precious club is a front organization for
the lewd practices of the privileged class.” Neela had refused to let the
subject drop. “I set out everything I knew, half knew, intuited, and
suspected, piled it all up in front of him and told him I wasn’t going to
let up until he’d said what there was to say.” Finally he’d panicked
and cried out, “You think I’m the kind of man who goes out at night
and cuts off the tops of women’s heads?” When she’d asked him what

that meant, he’d looked scared to death, and claimed he’d read it in
the paper. The swish of the tomahawk. The victorious warrior’s taking
of the spoils. But she had gone on-line to examine the archives of
every paper in the Manhattan area, and she knew. “It’s not there.”
Neela had dressed for beauty, not for warmth, and the afternoon
had lost its glow. Solanka took off his coat and put it over her
trembling shoulders. All around them in the park the colors were
fading. The world became a place of blacks and grays. Women’s
clothes—unusually for New York, it had been a season of bright colors
—faded to monochrome. Under a gunmetal sky, the green leached out
of the spreading trees. Neela needed to get out of this suddenly
ghostly environment. “Let’s get a drink,” she proposed, getting up,
and in the same instant was off in long strides. “There’s a hotel bar
that’s okay on Seventy-seventh,” and Solanka hurried after her,
ignoring the now familiar shocks and catastrophes she was leaving,
like hurricane damage, in her wake.
She had been born “in the mid-seventies” in Mildendo, the capital of
Lilliput-Blefuscu, where her family still lived. They were girmityas,
descendants of one of the original migrants—her great-grandfather—
who had signed an indenture agreement, a girmit, back in 1834, the
year after the abolition of slavery. Biju Mahendra, from the little
Indian village of Titlipur, had traveled with his brothers all the way to
this double speck in the remote South Pacific. The Mahendras had
gone to work in Blefuscu, the more fertile of the two islands, and the
center of the sugar industry. “As an Indo-Lilly,” she said over her
second cosmopolitan, “my childhood bogeyman was the Coolumber,
who was big and white and spoke not in words but in numbers and
would eat little girls at night if they didn’t do their homework and
wash their private parts. As I grew up I learned that the ‘coolumbers’
were the sugarcane laborers’ overseers. The particular one in my
family’s story was a white man called Mr. Huge—Hughes, really, I
suppose—who was ‘a devil from Tasmania,’ and to whom my great-
grandfather and great-uncles were no more than numbers on the list
he read out every morning. My ancestors were numbers, the children
of numbers. Only the indigenous Elbees were called by their true last
names. It took us three generations to retrieve our family names from
this numerical tyranny. By then, obviously, things between the Elbees
and us had gone badly wrong. ‘We eat veggies,’ my grandmother used

to say, ‘but those Elbee fatsos eat human meat.’ In fact there is a
history of cannibalism in Lilliput-Blefuscu. They are offended when
you point this out, but it’s just so. And for us the very presence of
meat in the kitchen was a defilement. Long pork sounded like the
devil’s own food.”
Words for drink played a distressingly big part in her back-story. In
the matter of grog, yaqona, kava, beer, as in little else, the Indo-
Lilliputians and Elbees were as one; both communities suffered from
alcoholism and the problems associated with it. Her own father was a
big boozer, and she had been glad to escape him. There were very few
scholarships to America available in Lilliput-Blefuscu, but she won
one of them, and fell for New York at once, as did everybody who
needed, and found here, a home away from home among other
wanderers who needed exactly the same thing: a haven in which to
spread their wings. Yet her roots pulled at her, and she suffered badly
from what she called “the guilt of relief.” She had escaped her
drunkard of a father, but her mother and sisters had not. And to her
community’s cause, too, she remained passionately attached. “The
parades are on Sunday,” she said, ordering a third cosmopolitan. “Will
you come with me?” And Solanka—it was Thursday already—
inevitably agreed.
“The Elbees say we are greedy and want everything and will chase
them out of their own land. We say they are lazy and if it wasn’t for
us they would sit around doing nothing and starve. They say that the
only end of a soft-boiled egg to break is the little one. Whereas we—
or at least those of us who eat eggs—are the Big Endians, from Big
Endia.” She cackled again, tickled by her own joke. “Trouble is
coming soon.” It was a question, as so many things were, of the land.
Even though the Indo-Lilliputians on Blefuscu now did all the farming,
were responsible for most of the country’s exports, and therefore
earned most of the foreign exchange; even though they had prospered
and cared for their own, building their own schools and hospitals, still
the land on which all this stood was owned by the “indigenous”
Elbees. “I hate that word, ‘indigenous,’” Neela cried. “I’m fourth-
generation Indo-Lilly. So I’m indigenous too.” The Elbees feared a
coup—a revolutionary land grab by the Indo-Lillys, to whom the
Elbee constitution still denied the right to own real estate on either
island; the Big Endians, for their part, feared the same thing in
reverse. They were afraid that when their hundred-year leases expired

in the course of the coming decade, the Elbees would simply take
back the now valuable farmland for themselves, leaving the Indians,
who had developed it, with nothing.
But there was a complication, which Neela, in spite of her ethnic
loyalty and three quick cosmopolitans, was honest enough to admit.
“This isn’t just a question of ethnic antagonism or even of who owns
what,” she said. “The Elbee culture really is different, and I can see
why they are afraid. They’re collectivists. The land isn’t held by
individual landowners but by the Elbee chiefs in trust for the whole
Elbee people. And then we Big Endia-wallahs come along with our
good business practice, entrepreneurial acumen, free-market
mercantilism, and profit mentality. And the world speaks our
language now, not theirs. It is the age of numbers, isn’t it? So we are
numbers and the Elbees are words. We are mathematics and they are
poetry. We are winning and they are losing: and so of course they’re
afraid of us, it’s like the struggle inside human nature itself, between
what’s mechanical and utilitarian in us and the part that loves and
dreams. We all fear that the cold, machinelike thing in human nature
will destroy our magic and song. So the battle between the Indo-Lillys
and the Elbees is also the battle of the human spirit and, damnit, with
my heart I’m probably on the other side. But my people are my people
and justice is justice and after you’ve worked your butts off for four
generations and you’re still treated like second-class citizens, you’ve
got a right to be angry. If it comes to it I’ll go back. I’ll fight alongside
them if I have to, shoulder to shoulder. I’m not kidding, I really will.”
He believed her. And was thinking: how is it that, in the company of
this impassioned woman I barely know, I feel so completely at ease?
The scar was the legacy of a bad car accident on the interstate near
Albany; she had almost lost her arm. Neela by her own admission
drove “like a maharani.” It was up to other road users to keep out of
her imperious, supra-legal way. In areas where she and her car
became known—Blefuscu, or the environs of her smart New England
college—motorists, when they saw Neela Mahendra coming, would
often abandon their vehicles and run. After a series of small dings and
near misses, she experienced the very unfunny Big One. Her survival
was a miracle (and a close thing); the preservation of her
heartbreaking beauty was an even greater astonishment. “I’ll take the
scar,” she said. “I’m lucky to have it. And it’s a reminder of something
I shouldn’t forget.”

In New York, fortunately, it was unnecessary for her to drive. Her
regal attitude—“my mother always told me I was a queen, and I
believed her”—meant she preferred to be driven anyway, although
she was also a terrible backseat driver, full of yelps and gasps. Her
rapid success in television production enabled her to afford a car
service, whose drivers quickly grew used to her frequent cries of fear.
She had no sense of direction, either, and so—remarkably for a New
Yorker—never knew where anything was. Her favorite stores, her
preferred restaurants and nightclubs, the location of the recording
studios and cutting rooms she regularly used: they could have been
anywhere. “Where the car stops is where they are,” she told Solanka
over the fourth cocktail, all wide-eyed innocence. “It’s amazing.
They’re always right there. Right outside the door.”
Pleasure is the sweetest drug. Neela Mahendra leaned into him in
their black leather booth and said, “I’m having so much fun. I never
realized how easy it would be around you, you looked like such a
stuffed shirt at Jack’s place, watching that stupid game.” Her head
tilted toward his shoulder. Her hair was down now, and from where
he was sitting it veiled much of her face. She let the back of her right
hand move slowly against the back of his left hand. “Sometimes, when
I drink too much, she comes out to play, the other one, and then
there’s nothing I can do. She takes charge and that’s that.” Solanka
was lost. She took his hand in hers and kissed the fingertips, sealing
their unspoken compact. “You have scars, too,” she said, “but you
never talk about them. I tell you all my secrets and you don’t say one
single word. I think, why does this man never talk about his child?
Yes, of course Jack told me, you think I didn’t ask? Asmaan, Eleanor,
that much I know. If I had a little boy, I’d talk about him all the time.
You apparently don’t even carry his photograph. I think, this man left
his wife of many years, the mother of his son, and even his friend
doesn’t know why. I think, he looks like a good man, a kind man, not
a brute, so there must be a good reason, maybe if I open up to him
he’ll tell me, but, baba, you just keep mum. And then I think, here is
this Indian man, Indian from India, not Indo-Lilly like me, a son of the
mother country, but apparently that also is a forbidden topic. Born in
Bombay, but on the place of his birth he is silent. What are his family
circumstances? Brothers, sisters? Parents dead or alive? Nobody
knows. Does he ever go back to visit? Seems like not. No interest.
Why? The answer must be: more scars. Malik, I think you’ve been in

more accidents than me, and maybe you were even more badly hurt
somewhere along the line. But if you don’t talk, what can I do? I have
nothing to say to you. I can only say, here I am, and if human beings
can’t save you then nothing can. That’s all I’m saying. Talk, don’t talk,
it’s up to you. I’m having a good time and anyway now the other one
is here, so shut up, I don’t know why men always have to talk so
much when it’s obvious that words are not the thing required. Not
required right now at all.”

12
LET THE FITTEST SURVIVE:
THE COMING OF THE PUPPET KINGS
Akasz Kronos, the great, cynical cyberneticist of the Rijk, created the
Puppet Kings in response to the terminal crisis of the Rijk civilization,
but on account of the flaw in his character that made him unable to
consider the general good, he used them to guarantee nobody’s
survival or fortune but his own. In those days the polar ice-caps of
Galileo-1, the Rijk’s home planet, were in the last stages of melting (a
large stretch of open sea had been sighted at the North Pole) and no
matter how high the dikes were built, the moment was not far off
when the glory of the Rijk, that highest of cultures set in the lowest of
lands, which was just then enjoying the richest and most prolonged
golden age in its history, would be washed away.
The Rijk fell into decline. Their artists put down their brushes for
good, for how could art—which relied, like good wine, on the
judgment of posterity—be created once posterity had been canceled?
Science failed the challenge as well. The Galileo solar system lay in a
“dark quadrant” near the rim of our own galaxy, a mysterious area in
which few other suns burned, and in spite of their high level of
technological achievement, the Rijk had never succeeded in locating
an alternative home planet. A cross-section of Rijk society was
dispatched, cryogenically frozen, in the Max-H, a computer-controlled
spacecraft programmed to wake its precious cargo if a suitable planet
came within range of its sensors. When this spacecraft malfunctioned
and exploded a few thousand miles into space, people lost heart. In
that most open, broad-minded, and reasonable of societies there now
arose a number of fire-and-brimstone preachers, who blamed the

coming catastrophe on the godlessness of Rijk culture. Many citizens
fell under the spell of these new, narrow men. Meanwhile the sea
continued to rise. When a dike sprang a leak, the water pushed
through with such violence that whole counties were sometimes
flooded before repairs were complete. The economy collapsed.
Lawlessness increased. People stayed home and waited for the end.
The sole surviving portrait of Akasz Kronos shows a man with a full
head of long silver hair framing a soft, round, surprisingly boyish face
dominated by a wine-dark Cupid’s bow of a mouth. He wears a floor-
length gray tunic, with gold embroidery at the cuffs and neckline,
over a frilled white high-collared shirt: the very picture of the
dignified genius. But the eyes are mad. As we peer into the darkness
around him, we make out fine white filaments floating from his
fingertips. Only after much study do we notice the small bronze-
colored figure of a puppet man at the bottom left of the picture, and
even then it takes a while before we realize that the puppet has
broken free of the puppeteer’s control. The homunculus turns its back
on its maker and sets off to forge its own destiny, while Kronos, the
abandoned creator, takes leave not only of his creation but of his
senses, too.
Professor Kronos was not only a great scientist but an entrepreneur
of Machiavellian daring and skill. As the Rijk lands drowned, he
quietly moved his center of operations to the two small mountain-
islands that formed the primitive but independent nation of Baburia,
at the Galilean antipodes. Here he negotiated and signed an
advantageous treaty with the local ruler, the Mogol. The Baburians
would retain ownership of their territory, but Kronos would be
granted long leases over the high mountain pastures, for which he
agreed to pay what seemed to the Mogol a very high rent indeed: an
annual pair of wooden shoes for every Baburian man, woman, and
child. In addition, Kronos undertook to guarantee the defense of
Baburia against the assault that must certainly come as the Rijk’s
lands sank below the rising waves. For this he was accorded the title
of National Savior and granted droit de seigneur over all the islands’
new brides. Having come to terms, Kronos proceeded with the
creation of the masterpieces that would prove his undoing, the so-
called Monstrous Dynasty of Puppet Caesars, also known as Professor
Kronos’s No-Strings Puppet Kings.
His own lover, Zameen, the legendary beauty of the Rijk and the

only scientist whom Kronos regarded as his peer, refused to
accompany him to his new antipodean world. Her place was with her
people, she said, and she would die with them if that was what
destiny decreed. Akasz Kronos abandoned her without a second
thought, perhaps preferring the sexual multiplicity available on the
other side of the world.
The broken strings in the Kronos portrait are purely metaphorical.
The Professor’s artificial life-forms were string-free from the start.
They walked and talked; they had “stomachs,” sophisticated fueling
centers that could process ordinary food and drink, with solar-cell
backup systems that enabled them to stay alert, and work, for longer
hours than any flesh-and-blood human being. They were faster,
stronger, smarter—“better,” Kronos told them—than their human,
antipodean hosts. “You are kings and queens,” he taught his creatures.
“Carry yourselves well. You are the masters now.” He even gave them
the power to reproduce themselves. Each cyborg was given his or her
own blueprint so that it could, in theory, endlessly re-create itself in
its own image. But in the master program Kronos added a Prime
Directive: whatever order he gave, the cyborgs and their replicas were
obliged to obey, even to the point of acquiescing in their own
destruction, should he deem that necessary. He dressed them in finery
and gave them the illusion of freedom, but they were his slaves. He
gave them no names. There were seven-digit numbers branded on their
wrists, and they were known by these.
No two Kronosian creations were the same. Each was given its own
sharply delineated personality traits: the Aristocratic Philosopher; the
Promiscuous Child-Woman; the First, Rich Ex-Wife (a Bitch); the Aging
Groupie; the Pope’s Driver; the Underwater Plumber; the Traumatized
Quarterback; the Blackballed Golfer; the Three Society Girls; the Playboys;
the Golden Child and His Ideal Mother; the Deceitful Publisher; the Angry
Professor; the Goddess of Victory (an exceptionally beautiful cyborg
modeled after Kronos’s abandoned lover, Zameen of Rijk); the Runners;
the Cell-Phone Woman; the Cell-Phone Man; the Human Spiders; the
Woman Who Saw Visions; the Astro-Adman; even a Dollmaker. And as
well as characters—strengths, weaknesses, habits, memories, allergies,
lusts—he gave them a value system by which to live. The greatness of
Akasz Kronos, which was also his downfall, may be judged by this:
that the virtues and vices he inculcated in his creations were not
wholly, or not only, his own. Self-serving, opportunistic,

unscrupulous, he nevertheless permitted his cybernetic life-forms a
degree of ethical independence. The possibility of idealism was
allowed.
Lightness, quickness, exactitude, visibility, multiplicity, consistency:
these were the six high Kronosian values, but instead of embedding
single definitions of these principles in the cyborgs’ default programs,
he offered his creations a series of multiple-choice options. Thus
“lightness” might be defined as “doing lightly what is in reality a
heavy duty,” that is to say, grace; but it might also be “treating
frivolously what is serious,” or even “making light of what is grave,”
that is, amorality. And “quickness” could be “doing swiftly whatever is
necessary,” in other words, efficiency; however, if the emphasis were
to be placed on the second part of that phrase, a kind of ruthlessness
could result. “Exactitude” could tend toward “precision” or “tyranny,”
“visibility” might be “clarity of action” or “attention-seeking,”
“multiplicity” was capable of being both “open-mindedness” and
“duplicity,” and “consistency,” the most important of the six, could
mean either “trustworthiness” or “obsessiveness”—the consistency of
—we may use our own world’s models here, for the sake of easy
comparison—Bartleby the Scrivener, who preferred not to, or of
Michael Kohlhaas, with his inexorable and world-shattering search for
redress. Sancho Panza is consistent in the “reliable” sense of the word,
but so, contrariwise, is erratic, fixated, chivalry-maddened Quixote.
And note, too, the tragic consistency of the Land Surveyor, eternally
yearning toward what he can never attain, or of Ahab in his pursuit of
the whale. This is the consistency that destroys the consistent; for the
Ahabs perish, while the inconsistent, the Ishmaels, survive. “The
fullness of a living self is inexpressible, obscure,” Kronos told his
mechanical fictions. “In that mystery is freedom, which is what I have
given you. In that obscurity is light.”
Why did he permit the Puppet Kings such psychological and moral
liberty? Perhaps because the scientist and scholar in him could not
resist seeing how these new life-forms resolved the battle that rages
within all sentient creatures, between light and dark, heart and mind,
spirit and machine.
At first the Puppet Kings served Kronos well. They made the shoes
that paid for the land leases, tended the livestock, and tilled the soil.
He had dressed them all in court finery, but their long brocaded skirts
and dress uniforms quickly grew soiled and torn, and they made

themselves new clothes more suited to their labors. As the ice-caps
continued to melt and the water levels rose, they prepared to defend
their shrinking new home against the foretold Rijk attack. By now they
had learned how to modify their own systems without Kronos’s help,
and they added new skills and aptitudes by the day. One such
innovation enabled them to use the local firewater as flying fuel.
Carrying bottles of the toddy with them in case they wanted topping
up, the cyborg air force took flight without any need for airplanes,
and caught and destroyed the incoming Rijk craft in spydernets, the
giant booby-trapped metal webs that they hung across the sky.
Underwater, too, they laid similar spidery traps (they had modified
their “lungs” for submarine use and were therefore able to sabotage
and scuttle the entire Rijk fleet from below). The so-called Battle of the
Antipodes was won, and the skies and seas fell silent. On the far side of
Galileo-1, flood-waters engulfed the Rijk. If Akasz Kronos felt any
compassion as his countrymen drowned, he did not record it.
After the victory, however, things changed. The Puppet Kings
returned from the wars with a new sense of individual worth, even of
“rights.” To bring them into line, Kronos announced an urgent
maintenance-and-repair schedule. Many cyborgs failed to keep their
appointments at his workshop, preferring—in the case of those
damaged in battle—to live with their disabilities: their malfunctioning
servo-mechanisms and partially burned-out circuitry. Groups of the
Puppet Kings became secretive, conspiratorial, surly. Kronos suspected
that they were meeting covertly to plot against him and heard rumors
that at these meetings they addressed one another not by number but
by new names, which they had chosen for themselves. He became
tyrannical, and when one of the Three Society Girls was insolent to
his face, he made an example of her, turning against her his much
feared “master blaster,” which caused an instant, irreversible deletion
of all programs: in other words, cybernetic death.
The execution was counterproductive. Dissension grew more rapidly
than before. Many cyborgs went underground, erecting, around their
hideouts, sophisticated anti-surveillance electronic shields, which
even Kronos could not easily penetrate, and moving frequently, so
that by the time the Professor had broken down one set of defenses,
the revolutionaries had already disappeared behind the next. We
cannot say for sure exactly when the Dollmaker, whom Akasz Kronos
had created in his own image and imbued with many of his own

characteristics, learned how to override the Prime Directive. But soon
after that breakthrough it was Professor Akasz Kronos who
disappeared. No longer safe from his creations, he had to go
underground while the Peekay revolution triumphantly emerged into
the daylight to be greeted by the cheers of all the cyborgs in Baburia.
The so-called last word from Kronos exists only in the form of an
electronic message to his usurper, the cyborg Dollmaker. It is a
rambling, incoherent text, self-exculpatory and full of accusations of
ingratitude, threats, and curses. However, there is good reason to
suppose that this text is a forgery, perhaps the work of the Dollmaker
himself. The creation of a “mad Kronos,” whose sane mirror image he
was, suited the cyborg’s purposes perfectly; and such is history’s
appetite for the lurid that this version was widely accepted. (That
single portrait of Kronos is notable, as we have remarked, for the
scientist’s insane eyes.) Lately, the discovery of fragments of Professor
Kronos’s journals has shed new light on his state of mind. A very
different Kronos emerges from these fragments, whose authenticity
seems beyond dispute; the handwriting is clearly the Professor’s. “The
gods, too, murdered the Titans who made them,” Kronos writes.
“Artificial life here merely mirrors the real thing. For man is born in
chains but everywhere seeks to be free. I too once had strings. I loved
my puppets, knowing that, like children, they might walk away from
me one day. But they cannot leave me behind. I made them with love,
and my love is in each one of them, in their circuits and plastics. In
their wood.” Yet this Kronos, so free from bitterness, seems too good
to be true. The Professor, a master of dissimulation, may have been
plotting his vengeance behind a screen of fatalism.
After Kronos’s disappearance, a PK delegation led by the Dollmaker
and his lover, the Goddess of Victory, took the scientist’s place at the
next annual Day of the Shoes, and informed the Mogol that the
Professor’s contract was to be considered void. Henceforth the
“Peekays” and Baburians must live on their twin islands as equals.
Before walking out of the Mogol’s presence (instead of shuffling out
backward as protocol dictated—a custom that even Kronos had not
dared to ignore) the Goddess of Victory threw down the challenge
that still reverberates between the two communities: “Let the fittest
survive.”
A few days later a small, battered amphibious craft landed
unnoticed in a forested corner of the northern island of Baburia.

Zameen of Rijk had escaped the destruction of her lost civilization and
made her way, against overwhelming odds, to the island refuge of the
man who had left her to die. Had she come to renew their love or to
avenge her abandonment? Was she here as lover or assassin? Her
uncanny resemblance to the cyborg Dollmaker’s lover, the Goddess of
Victory, meant that the Puppet Kings deferred to her without
question, believing her to be their new queen. What would happen
when the two women confronted each other? How would the
Dollmaker react to the “real” version of the woman he loved? How
would she, the real woman, react to this mechanical avatar of her
former lover? What would the Puppet Kings’ new enemies, the
antipodeans to whose territory they had now staked so extensive a
claim, make of her? How would she deal with them? And what had
actually befallen Professor Kronos? If he was dead, how did he die? If
alive, how great were his remaining powers? Had he genuinely been
overthrown, or was his disappearance some sort of fiendish ploy? So
many questions! And behind them, the greatest riddle of all. The
Puppet Kings had been offered by Kronos a choice between their
original, mechanical selves and some, at least, of the ambiguities of
human nature. What would be their choice: wisdom—or fury? Peace
—or fury? Love—or fury? The fury of genius, of creation, or of the
murderer or tyrant, the wild shrieking fury that must never be
named?
The continuing story of the twin goddesses and doubled professors,
of Zameen’s search for the vanished Akasz Kronos, and of the struggle
for power between the two communities of Baburia will be reported
on this site in regular bulletins. Click on the links for more PK info or
on the icons below for answers to 101 FAQs, access to interactivities,
and to see the wide range of PK merchandise available for INSTANT
shipping NOW. All major credit cards accepted.

13
As a young man in the early 1960s, Malik Solanka had devoured the
science fiction novels of what was later recognized as the form’s
golden age. In flight from his own life’s ugly reality, he found in the
fantastic—its parables and allegories, but also its flights of pure
invention, its loopy, spiraling conceits—a ceaselessly metamorphosing
alternative world in which he felt instinctively at home. He subscribed
to the legendary magazines, Amazing and F&SF, bought as many of the
yellow-jacketed Victor Gollancz SF series as he could afford, and all
but memorized the books of Ray Bradbury, Zenna Henderson, A. E.
van Vogt, Clifford D. Simak, Isaac Asimov, Frederik Pohl and C. M.
Kornbluth, Stanislaw Lem, James Blish, Philip K. Dick, and L. Sprague
de Camp. Golden-age science fiction and science fantasy were, in
Solanka’s view, the best popular vehicle ever devised for the novel of
ideas and of metaphysics. At twenty, his favorite work of fiction was a
story called “The Nine Billion Names of God,” in which a Tibetan
monastery set up to count the names of the Almighty—believing this
to be the only reason for the existence of the universe—buys a top-of-
the-line computer to speed up the process. Hard-bitten industry
mavens go to the monastery to help the monks get the great machine
up and running. They find the whole idea of listing the names pretty
laughable, and worry about how the monks might react when the
job’s done and the universe goes on going on; so once they’ve done
their work, they sneak quietly away. Later, on a plane home, they
calculate that the computer must have finished its work. They look
out of the window at the night sky, where—Solanka had never
forgotten the last line—“one by one, very quietly, the stars were going
out.”
To such a reader—and admirer, in the cinema, of the highbrow sci-
fi of Fahrenheit 451 and Solaris—George Lucas was a kind of Antichrist

and the Spielberg of Close Encounters was a kid playing in the grown-
ups’ sandbox, while the Terminator films, and above all the mighty
Blade Runner, were carriers of the sacred flame. And now it was his
own turn. In those unreliable summer days, Professor Malik Solanka
would work on the world of the Puppet Kings—the dolls as well as
their stories—like a man possessed. The story of the mad scientist
Akasz Kronos and his beautiful lover, Zameen, filled his mind. New
York faded into the background; or, rather, everything that happened
to him in the city—every random encounter, every newspaper he
opened, every thought, every feeling, every dream—fed his
imagination, as though prefabricated to fit into the structure he had
already devised. Real life had started obeying the dictates of fiction,
providing precisely the raw material he needed to transmute through
the alchemy of his reborn art.
Akasz he got from aakaash, Hindi for “sky.” Sky as in Asmaan
(Urdu), as in poor Sky Schuyler, as in the great sky gods: Ouranos-
Varuna, Brahma, Yahweh, Manitou. And Kronos was the Greek, the
child-devourer, Time. Zameen was earth, the heavens’ opposite, which
embraces the sky at the horizon. Akasz he had seen clearly from the
first, picturing his whole life’s arc. Zameen, though, had surprised
him. In this tale of a drowning world he hadn’t expected an earth
goddess—even one modeled on Neela Mahendra—to take a central
role. Yet here she undeniably was, and by showing up she had
valuably thickened the plot. Her presence seemed to have been
prefigured, even though he hadn’t planned for it at all. Neela/Zameen
of Rijk/Goddess of Victory: three versions of the same woman filled
his thoughts, and he realized that he’d finally found the successor to
the famous creation of his youth. “Hello to Neela,” he told himself,
“and so, at last, farewell to Little Brain.”
Which was also to say, farewell to his afternoons with Mila Milo.
Mila had felt the change in him at once, intuiting it when she saw him
leave for his tryst with Neela on the steps of the Met. She knew what I
wanted before I had even dared admit it to myself, Solanka
acknowledged. It was probably finished between us there and then.
Even if there had been no miracle, even if Neela hadn’t so
unpredictably chosen me, Mila had seen enough. She has real beauty
of her own, and pride, and isn’t about to play second fiddle to anyone.
He returned to West Seventieth Street after an endlessly surprising
night spent with Neela in a hotel room across the park—a night whose

biggest surprise was that it was happening at all—and found Mila
wrapped ostentatiously around beautiful, stupid Eddie Ford on the
stoop next door; Eddie, one of nature’s bodyguards, glowing with the
joy of having regained guardianship over the only body he gave a
damn about. The look Eddie gave Solanka over Mila’s shoulder was
impressively articulate. It said, Buddy, you don’t have access
privileges at this address no more; between you and this lady there’s
now a red velvet rope and your accreditation is so canceled, you
shouldn’t even think about stepping in this direction, unless of course
you’d like me to clean your teeth, using your spinal column as a
brush.
The next afternoon, however, she was at his door. “Take me out
somewhere great and expensive. I need to dress up and eat industrial
quantities of food.” Eating was Mila’s normal reaction to misery,
drinking her response to anger. Sad was probably better than mad,
Solanka mused ungenerously. Easier for him, anyway. To make up for
this selfish thought, he called one of the talked-about new places of
the moment, a Cuban-themed bar-restaurant in Chelsea named Gio in
honor of Doña Gioconda, an elderly diva whose star was shining
brightly that Buena Vista summer and in whose languid smoke-trail of
a voice all of old Havana came back to swaggering, swaying,
seducing, smooching life. Solanka got a table so easily that he
commented on the fact to the woman taking the booking. “City’s a
ghost town righ’ now,” she agreed distantly. “It’s, like, Loserville. See
jou at nine
P.M.”
“You left me and I’m dying,” Gioconda sang on the restaurant’s
sound system as Solanka and Mila came in, “but after three days I will
rise again. Don’t go to my funeral, sucker, I’ll be out dancing with
some better man. Resurrection, resurrection, and baby I’ll make sure
you know when.” Mila translated the words for Solanka. “That’s
perfect,” she added. “Are you listening, Malik? Because if I could
request a track, this would be it. As they say on the radio, the message
is in the words. ‘Oh, you thought that you could break me, and it’s
true that I’m in pieces now, but after three days they will wake me,
from a distance you will see me take my bow. Resurrection,
resurrection, gettin’ a new life any day now.’”
At the bar she downed a mojito fast and ordered another one.
Solanka saw that he was in for a rougher ride than anticipated. At the
bottom of the second glass she moved to the table, ordered all the

most highly spiced dishes on the menu, and let him have it. “You’re a
lucky man,” she told him, plunging into the complimentary
guacamole, “because evidently you’re an optimist. You have to be,
because it’s so easy for you to throw things away. Your child, your
wife, me, whatever. Only a wild optimist, a stupid brain-dead
Pollyanna or Pangloss, throws away what’s most precious, what’s so
rare and satisfies his deepest need, which you know and I know you
can’t even name or look at without the shutters closed and the lights
out, you have to put a cushion on your lap to hide it until somebody
comes along who’s smart enough to know what to do, somebody
whose own unspeakable need just happens to make a perfect fit with
your own. And now, now when we’ve got there, when the defenses
are down and the pretense is over and we’re really in that room that
we never allowed ourselves to believe could exist for either of us, the
invisible room of our greatest fear—right at the very moment when
we discover there’s no need to be afraid in that room, we can have
whatever we want for as long as we want it, and maybe when we’ve
had our fill we’ll wake up and notice that we’re real living people,
we’re not the puppets of our desires but just this woman, this man,
and then we can stop the games, open up the shutters, turn out the
lights, and step out into the city street hand in hand … this is when
you choose to pick up some whore in the park and for Chrissake get a
fucking room. An optimist is a man who gives up an impossible
pleasure because he’s sure he’ll find it again just around the bend. An
optimist thinks his dick talks better sense than, oh, never mind. I was
going to say, than his girl, meaning, stupidly, me. Me, by the way, I’m
a pessimist. My view is that not only does lightning not strike twice, it
usually doesn’t strike once. So that was it for me, what happened
between us, that was really it, and you, you just, damn, damn. I could
have stayed with you, did you ever work that out? Oh, not for long,
just thirty or forty years, more than you’ve got, probably. Instead, I’ll
marry Eddie. You know what they say: charity begins at home.”
Breathing heavily, she paused and applied herself to the carnival of
food that stood before her. Solanka waited; more would soon enough
be on the way. He was thinking, You can’t marry him, you mustn’t,
but such advice was no longer his to give. “You’re telling yourself
what we did was wrong,” she said. “I know you. You’re using guilt to
set yourself free. So now you think you can walk away from me and
tell yourself it’s the moral thing to do. But what we did wasn’t

wrong,” and here her eyes filled with tears. “Not wrong at all. We
were just comforting each other for our terrible feelings of loss. The
doll thing was just a way of getting there. What, you really think I
fucked my father, you imagine I wriggled my ass on his lap and
pushed my nail into his nipple and licked his poor sweet throat?
That’s what you’re telling yourself to give yourself an out, or was that
also the in? Was that the turn-on, to be my father’s ghost? Professor,
you’re the one who’s sick. I’m telling you again. What we did wasn’t
wrong. It was play. Serious play, dangerous play, maybe, but play. I
thought you understood that. I thought you might just be that
impossible creature, a sexually wise man who could give me a safe
place, a place to be free and to set you free, too, a place where we
could release all the built-up poison and anger and hurt, just let it go
and be free of it, but it turns out, Professor, you’re just another fool.
You were on Howard Stern today, by the way.”
That was a left turn he hadn’t expected, a fast swerve against the
oncoming emotional traffic. Perry Pincus, he realized with a sudden
heaviness. “She made it, then. What did she say?” “Oh,” said Mila,
speaking through lamb smothered in salsa verde, “she said a
mouthful.” Mila had an excellent memory and could often replay
whole conversations almost verbatim. Her Perry Pincus, which she
now gave with as much wounding gusto as a young Bernhardt, a
Stockard Channing of the near-at-hand, was therefore, Solanka
conceded with sinking heart, likely to be extremely reliable as far as
accuracy was concerned. “Sometimes these so-called great male minds
are textbook cases of pathetically arrested development,” Perry had
told Howard and his huge audience. “Take the case of this guy Malik
Solanka, not a major mind, gave up philosophy and went into
television, and I should say right out that he was one of those I never,
you know. Not on my résumé. What was his problem, right? Well. Let
me tell you that this Solanka’s whole room, and remember we’re
talking here about a fellow of King’s College, Cambridge, England,
was crawling with dolls, and I do mean dolls. Once I noticed that, I
couldn’t leave fast enough. God forbid he should mistake me for a
dolly and poke me in the stomach till I said Ma-ma. I was like, excuse
me, but I never even liked dolls when I was little, and I’m a girl?
What? No, no. Gay I’m comfortable with. Absolutely. I’m from
California, Howard. Sure. This wasn’t gay. This was … goo-goo. It was
—what can I tell you?—icky. For a gag, I still send the guy stuffed

animals at Christmas. The Coca-Cola polar bear. You got it. He never
acknowledges receipt, but guess what? He never sent one back, either.
Men. When you know their secrets, it’s hard not to laugh.”
“I wondered if I should tell you,” Mila confided, “but then I
thought, screw him, the gloves are off.” Doña Gio was still singing,
but the screaming of the Furies momentarily drowned her voice. The
hungry goddesses were beating around both their heads, feeding on
their rage. The Pincus interview roared in him, and Mila’s expression
changed. “Shh,” she said. “Okay, I’m sorry, but will you please stop
making that noise? We’ll get thrown out of here and I haven’t even
had dessert yet.” It was plain that the roar had escaped into the room.
People were looking. The owner-manager, a Raul Julia lookalike, was
coming across the room. A glass broke in Malik Solanka’s hand. There
was a messy, mingled flow of wine and blood. It became necessary to
leave. Bandages were produced, a doctor’s assistance refused, the
check was hurriedly brought forward and settled. Outside, it had
begun to rain. Mila’s fury abated, trumped by his own. “About the
woman on Howard?” she said in the eventual taxi uptown. “She came
across as basically an aging nympho playing kiss and tell. You’re an
older person, you should know how life is. Loose ends dangling
everywhere, and once in a while they snap back and lash you across
the face. Let her go. She’s nothing to you, hardly ever was, and with
the amount of bad karma she’s storing up, I don’t like her chances.
Enough public screaming! Jesus. Sometimes you’re scary. Mostly I
think you wouldn’t hurt a fly and then suddenly you’re this Godzilla
creature from the black lagoon who looks like he could rip the throat
off a Tyrannosaurus Rex. You’ve got to bring that thing under control,
Malik. Wherever it’s coming from, you need to send it away.”
“Islam will cleanse your soul of dirty anger,” the taxi driver
interrupted, “and reveal to you the holy wrath that moves
mountains.” Then he added, switching languages as another car came
unacceptably close to his taxicab, “Hey! American man! You are a
godless homosexual rapist of your grandmother’s pet goat.” Solanka
began to laugh, the dreadful mirthless laughter of release: hard,
painful, racking sobs. “Hello again, Beloved Ali,” he coughed. “Good
to see you in such top form.”
• • •

One week later, Mila somewhat surprisingly called and invited him
over “to talk about something else.” Her manner was friendly,
businesslike, excited. She had bounced back fast, Solanka marveled,
accepting her invitation. It was his first visit to Mila’s tiny fourth-floor
walk-up, which, he thought, was trying hard to be an all-American
apartment but failing badly: posters of Latrell Sprewell and Serena
Williams hung uncomfortably on either side of floor-to-ceiling
bookshelves groaning with volumes of Serbian and Eastern European
literature in the original, and in French and English translation—Kić,
Andriš, Pavič, some of the convention-busting Klokotrizans, and, from
the classical period, Obradovic and Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic; also
Klima, Kadaré, Nádas, Konrad, Herbert. There was no picture of her
father on display; Solanka noted the significant omission. A framed
monochrome photograph of a young woman in a belted floral-print
frock smiled broadly at Solanka. Mila’s mother, looking like Mila’s
younger sister. “Look how happy she is,” Mila said. “That was the last
summer before she knew she was sick. I’m now the same exact age
she was when she passed, so that’s one nightmare less to worry about.
I made it across that hurdle. For years I didn’t think I would.” She
wanted to belong to this city, this country at this time, but old
European demons were screeching in her ears. In one respect,
however, Mila was unreservedly of her American generation. The
computer workstation was the room’s focal point: the Mac
PowerBook, the older desktop Macintosh pushed to the back of the
work surface, the scanner, the CD burner, the plug-in audio system,
the music sequencer, the backup Zip drive, the manuals, the shelves of
CD-ROMs, DVDs, and much other stuff, which Solanka couldn’t easily
identify. Even the bed felt like an afterthought. Certainly he would
never know its pleasures. She had brought him up here, he
understood, to put all that behind them. It was another example of
her system of inverted signs. Her dead father was the most important
person in her life; therefore, no picture of Dad was visible. Solanka
was now to be no more than the professor next door; ergo, invite him
into your bedroom for a cup of coffee.
She had clearly prepared a speech and was in a state of high
readiness, buzzing with it. Once he had been given his mug of coffee,
the obviously planned olive branch was offered. “Because I’m a
superior type of human being,” Mila said, with a trace of the old
humor, “because I can rise above personal tragedy and function on a

higher plane, and also because I really think you’re great at what you
do, I talked to the guys about your new project. The cool science
fiction figures you’ve been coming up with: the mad cyberneticist, the
drowning planet idea, the cyborgs versus the lotus-eaters from the
other side of the world, the fight to the death between the counterfeit
and the real. We’d like to come and talk to you about building a site.
There’s a whole presentation we have, you can get an idea of what’s
possible. To tell you just one thing, they’ve developed a way of
compressing video material that gives you close to DVD quality on-
line, and within one generation it’ll be at least a match. It’s ahead of
anything you’ll get anywhere else. You have no comprehension of the
speed of things now, every year is the Stone Age to the year that
follows. Just the creative potential, what can be done with an idea
now. The best sites are inexhaustible, people come back and back, it’s
like a world you’re giving them to belong to. Sure, you have to get the
sales and delivery mechanism right, it has to be easy to buy into what
you’re offering, and we have a cool pitch on that also. But the point is
to make it easy for you. You already have the back-story and the
characters. Which we love. Then to keep control of the concept, you’ll
need to put together a master handbook, character-development
parameters, storyline do’s and don’ts, the laws of your imagined
universe. Inside that framework, there are so many brilliant kids who
would just love to create all kinds of, you can’t even say it, they’re
inventing whole new media every day. If it works, of course, the old
media will come running, books, records, TV, movies, musicals, who
knows.
“I love these guys. They’re so hungry, they can take an idea and run
with it into, like, the fifth dimension, and all you have to do is let
them make it happen for you, you’re the absolute monarch, nothing
happens if you don’t want it to; you just sit there and go yes, no, yes,
yes, no—whoa, whoa.” She made calming, pressing gestures with both
hands. “Hear me out. Will you for Chrissake hear me out, you owe me
that much. Malik, I know how unhappy you were—are—about the
whole Little Brain saga. This is me, remember? Malik, I know that.
That’s what I’m saying to you here. This time you don’t lose control.
This time you have a better vehicle than even existed when you came
up with Little Brain, and you drive it, totally. This is your chance to
get right what went wrong before, and if it works, let’s not be coy
here, the financial upside is very, very strong. We all think this could

be huge if it’s done right. On Little Brain, by the way, I don’t one
hundred percent agree with your position, because as you know I
think she’s great, and things are changing, the whole concept of
ownership as far as ideas is so different now, it’s so much more
cooperative. You have to be a little more flexible, just a little bit more,
okay? Let other people into your magic circle now and then. You’re
still the magician, but let everyone else play with the wands
sometimes. Little Brain? Let her fly, Malik, let her be what she is.
She’s all grown-up now. Let her go. You can still love her. She’s still
your child.”
She was on her feet, her fingers flying at the laptop, soliciting its
aid. Perspiration beaded her lip. The seventh veil falls away, Solanka
thought. Fully clothed as Mila was in her daytime sportswear, she
stood naked before him at last. Furia. This was the self she had never
fully shown, Mila as Fury, the world-swallower, the self as pure
transformative energy. In this incarnation she was simultaneously
terrifying and wonderful. He could never resist a woman when she
flowed at him this way, letting her riverine abundance overwhelm
him. This is what he looked for in women: to be overpowered,
outmatched. This Gangetic, Mississippian inexorability, whose
dwindling, he sadly knew, was what had gone wrong in his marriage.
Overwhelming doesn’t last for ever. No matter how astonishing the
initial contact, in the end the beloved astonishes us less. She merely
whelms and, even further down the road, underwhelms. But to give
up on his need for excess, for the immense thing, the thing that made
him feel like a surfer in the snow, riding the crest of an avalanche’s
leading edge! To say good-bye to that need would also be to accept
that he was, in the matter of desire, agreeing to be dead. And when
the living agree with themselves to be dead, the dark fury begins. The
dark fury of life, refusing to die before its allotted time.
He reached out for Mila. She knocked his arm aside. Her eyes were
shining: she had recovered from him already and was resurrected as a
queen. “This is what we can be to each other now, Malik. Take it or
leave it. If you say no, I don’t want to talk to you ever again. But if
you come aboard, we’ll work our butts off for you and there’ll be no
hard feelings from me. This new world is my life, Malik, it’s the thing
of my time, growing as I grow, learning as I learn, becoming as I
become. It’s where I feel most alive. There, inside the electricity. I told
you: you need to learn how to play. Serious play, that’s my thing.

That’s the heart of what’s happening, and I know how to do it, and if
you can give me the material I need to work with, well, baby, for me
that’s better than what was waiting under the cushion on your lap.
Nice as that was, don’t get me wrong. Nice as that undoubtedly was.
Okay, I’m done. Don’t answer. Go home. Think about it. Let us make
the full presentation. It’s a big decision. Take it slow. Make it when
you’re ready. But make it soon.”
The computer screen burst into life. Images raced toward him like
bazaar traders. This was technology as hustler, peddling its wares,
Solanka thought; or, as if in a darkened nightclub, gyrating for him.
Laptop as lapdancer. The auxiliary sound system poured
highdefinition noise over him like golden rain. “I don’t need to think
about it,” he told her. “Let’s do it. Let’s go.”

14
Eleanor rang, and Solanka’s emotional bar went up another notch.
“You know how to generate love, Malik,” his wife told him. “You just
don’t know what to do with it once it’s there.” But still no anger in
that mellifluous voice. “I was thinking, it was so wonderful being
loved by you. I was missing you, I suppose, so I’m glad I found you in.
I see us everywhere I go, isn’t it stupid, I see us having so many good
times. Your son is so special. Everyone who sees him thinks so.
Morgen thinks he’s the best ever, and you know what Morgen thinks
of kids. But he loves Asmaan to bits. Everyone does. And you know,
he’s always asking, ‘What would Daddy say? What would Daddy
think?’ You’re very much in his thoughts. And in mine. So I was only
wanting to say, both of us are sending you so much love.”
Asmaan took the phone. “I want to talk to Daddy. Hello, Daddy. I’ve
got a stuffed-up nose. That’s why I was crying. That’s why Olive isn’t
here.” That’s why was because. Because Olive isn’t here. Olive was the
mother’s helper, whom Asmaan adored. “I did a picture for you,
Daddy. It’s for Mummy and you. I’ll show it to you. It has red and
lellow and white. I did a picture for Grandpa. Grandpa’s dead. That’s
why he was ill for a long while. Grandma isn’t dead yet. She’s okay.
Maybe she’ll die tomorrow. I’m going to be a stoolboy, Daddy. That’s
why I’m going to a good stool soon. I’m not going tomorrow! No.
Another day. It’s a nursery stool, anyway. Not a big one. That’s why I
have to be bigger for the big one. I’m not going there today! Hmm.
Have you got a pa-resent, Daddy? Maybe there’s a big ephelant inside
it. Could be! Probably it’s a big ephelant. Well: ’bye!”
At dawn he woke alone in bed, roused by an agony of floorboards on
the floor above. Somebody certainly was an early riser up there. All

Solanka’s senses seemed to be on red alert. His hearing had grown so
unnaturally sharp that he could hear the beeps of the upstairs message
machine, the water pouring from his neighbor’s watering can into her
window boxes and pots of indoor flowers. A fly settled on his exposed
foot, and he actually leapt out of bed as if touched by a ghost and
stood in the middle of the room, naked, foolish, filled with fear. Sleep
was impossible. The street was already raucous. He took a long hot
shower and read himself the riot act. Mila was right. He had to bring
this thing under control. A doctor, he had to go to a doctor and get
some proper medication. What was it Rhinehart had called him in
jest? A heart attack waiting to happen. Well, delete heart. He had
become an attack in waiting. His bad temper might have been comical
once, but it was no joke now. If he hadn’t done anything yet, he might
at any moment; if the fury hadn’t already led him into the country of
the irreversible, it would, he knew it would. He feared himself
already, and pretty soon he would have scared off everyone else. He
wouldn’t need to drop out of the world; it would rush away from him.
He would become the person people crossed the road to avoid. What
if Neela made him angry? What if in a moment of passion she touched
the top of his head?
Here at the outset of the third millennium, medication was readily
available to deal with the irruption into the adult self of the
outrageous and the inchoate. Once if he’d roared like a warlock in a
public place, he might have been burned for a devil or weighted with
stones to see if he’d float in the East River, like a witch. Once at the
very least he might have been placed in the pillory and pelted with
rotten fruit. Now all that was required was to settle one’s check
rapidly and leave. And every good American knew the names of half a
dozen effective mood-management medicaments. This was a nation
for which the daily recitation of pharmaceutical brand names—
Prozac, Halcion, Seroquil, Numscul, Lobotomine—was like a Zen
koan, or the assertion of a kind of screwy patriotism: I pledge allegiance
to the American drug. So what was happening to him was eminently
preventable. Therefore, most people would say, it was his duty to
prevent it, so that he could stop being afraid of himself, stop being a
danger to others, start walking back toward his life. Toward Asmaan,
the Golden Child. Asmaan the sky, who needed his father’s sheltering
love.
Yes, but the medication was a mist. It was a fog you swallowed that

curled around your mind. The medication was a shelf and you had to
sit on it while the world went on around you. It was a translucent
shower curtain, like the one in Psycho. Things grew opaque; no, no,
that wasn’t right. What became opaque was you. Solanka’s scorn for
this age of doctors resurfaced. You wanted to be taller? All you had to
do was go to the tall doctor and let him put metal extensions into
your long bones. For thinner, there was the thin doctor, the pretty
doctor for prettier, and so on. Was that all there was? Was that it?
Were we just cars now, cars that could take themselves to the
mechanic and get themselves fixed up any way they wanted?
Customized, with leopard-spotted seats and wraparound sound?
Everything in him fought against the mechanization of the human.
Wasn’t this exactly what his imagined world was being created to
confront? What could a head doctor tell him about himself that he
didn’t already know? Doctors knew nothing. All they wanted was to
manage you, to tame you doggy-style or hood you like a hawk.
Doctors wanted to push you down on your knees and break them, and
once you started using those chemical crutches they handed out,
you’d never walk on your own two legs again.
All around him the American self was reconceiving itself in
mechanical terms, but was everywhere running out of control. This
self talked constantly about itself, barely touching on any other topic.
An industry of controllers—witch doctors whose role was to augment
and “gap-fill” the work of the already witchy doctors—had arisen to
deal with its problems of perfomance. Redefinition was this industry’s
basic mode of operation. Unhappiness was redefined as physical
unfitness, despair as a question of good spinal alignment. Happiness
was better food, wiser furniture orientation, deeper breathing
technique. Happiness was selfishness. The rudderless self was told to
be its own steering mechanism, the rootless self was instructed to root
itself in itself while, plainly, continuing to pay for the services of the
new guides, the cartographers of the altered states of America. Of
course, the old industries of control were still available, still making
their own, more familiar cases. The vice-presidential candidate of the
Democratic party blamed the movies for the national malaise and
praised, by contrast, God. God must move closer to the center of the
country’s life. (Closer? Solanka thought. If the Almighty got any closer
to the presidency, he’d be living at the end of Pennsylvania Avenue
and doing the damn job himself.) George Washington was exhumed to

be a soldier for Jesus. No morality without religion, George
thundered, standing pale and earthy in his grave, holding his little
hatchet. And in Washington’s country, the supposedly insufficiently
devout citizenry said, when asked, that over ninety percent of them
would vote for a Jew or homosexual for president, but only forty-nine
percent would vote for an atheist. Praise the Lord!
In spite of all the chatter, all the diagnosis, all the new
consciousness, the most powerful communications made by this new,
much-articulated national self were inarticulate. For the real problem
was damage not to the machine but to the desirous heart, and the
language of the heart was being lost. An excess of this heart damage
was the issue, not muscle tone, not food, neither feng shui nor karma,
neither godlessness nor God. This was the Jitter Bug that made people
mad: excess not of commodities but of their dashed and thwarted
hopes. Here in Boom America, the real-life manifestation of Keats’s
fabulous realms of gold, here in the doubloon-heavy pot at the
rainbow’s end, human expectations were at the highest levels in
human history, and so, therefore, were human disappointments. When
arsonists lit fires that burned the West, when a man picked up a gun
and began killing strangers, when a child picked up a gun and began
killing friends, when lumps of concrete smashed the skulls of rich
young women, this disappointment for which the word
“disappointment” was too weak was the engine driving the killers’
tongue-tied expressiveness. This was the only subject: the crushing of
dreams in a land where the right to dream was the national
ideological cornerstone, the pulverizing cancellation of personal
possibility at a time when the future was opening up to reveal vistas
of unimaginable, glittering treasures such as no man or woman had
ever dreamed of before. In the tormented flames and anguished
bullets Malik Solanka heard a crucial, ignored, unanswered, perhaps
unanswerable question—the same question, loud and life-shattering as
a Munch scream, that he had just asked himself: is this all there is?
What, this is it? This is it? People were waking up like Krysztof
Waterford-Wajda and realizing that their lives didn’t belong to them.
Their bodies didn’t belong to them, and nobody else’s bodies belonged
to anyone, either. They no longer saw a reason not to shoot.
Those whom the gods would destroy they first make mad. The
Furies hovered over Malik Solanka, over New York and America, and
shrieked. In the streets below, the traffic, human and inhuman,

screamed back its enraged assent.
Showered, a little more settled, Solanka remembered that he still
hadn’t called Jack. It struck him that he didn’t want to. The Jack
unveiled by Neela had disappointed and unnerved him, which in itself
should not have mattered. Certainly, Jack must have been
disappointed in him many times, even put off by his famous
“Solankering” temper. Friends should hurdle such obstacles; yet
Solanka did not pick up the phone. Why, then, he was a bad friend
too; add that to the lengthening charge sheet. Neela stood between
them now. That was it. Never mind that she had broken off her
relationship with Jack before anything had started between her and
Solanka. What mattered was how Jack would see it, and he would see
it as treason. And, if he was honest with himself, Solanka silently
admitted, he saw it as a betrayal, too.
Moreover, Neela was now also an obstacle between himself and
Eleanor. He had left home for one apparent and one underlying
reason: the horrifying fact of the knife in the dark, and, beneath the
surface of the marriage, the erosion of what had once overwhelmed.
Furious and newly kindled desire was hard to give up for that calmer,
gentler old flame. “There must be someone else,” Eleanor had said;
and now there was, there was. Neela Mahendra, the last big emotional
gamble of his life. Beyond her, if he lost her as he probably would, he
saw a desert, its slow white dunes sliding toward a sandy grave. The
dangers of the enterprise, accentuated by the differences in age and
background, by the damage in him and the whimsicality in her, were
considerable. How does a woman for whom every man hungers
decide that one is enough? Near the end of their first night together,
she had said, “I wasn’t looking for this. I’m not sure I’m ready for it.”
She meant that it had started feeling so deep so fast that it scared her.
“The risk might be too big.” He had twisted his mouth a little too
sourly. “I wonder which of us,” he asked, “is taking the bigger
emotional risk.” She had had no trouble with that question. “Oh, you
are,” she said.
Wislawa returned to work. Soft-spoken Simon Jay had called Solanka
from his farm to say that he and his wife had soothed the angry house
cleaner, but a contrite phone call from Solanka would help. Gentle as

he was, Mr. Jay did not fail to point out that the lease required the
apartment to be properly maintained. Solanka gritted his teeth and
made the call. “Okay, I come, why not,” Wislawa had agreed. “You
are lucky I am big in the heart.” Her work was even less satisfactory
than before, but Solanka said nothing. There was an imbalance of
power in the apartment. Wislawa entered like a queen—like a
Goddess of Victory who had cut her strings—and after a few hours of
wandering around the duplex like a monarch on a royal progress,
waving her duster like a royal kerchief, departed with a contemptuous
expression on her bony face. Those who formerly served were now the
masters, Solanka thought. As on Galileo-1, so also in New York.
His imagined world absorbed him more and more. He drew
furiously, modeled in clay, whittled soft woods; above all, and
furiously, he wrote. Mila Milo’s troop had begun to treat him with a
kind of surprised reverence: who’d have thought, their manner
seemed to say, that an old duffer could have come up with stuff as hip
as this? Even slow, resentful Eddie went along with the new attitude.
Solanka, despised by his own house cleaner, was much mollified by
the young men’s respect and grew determined to prove worthy of it.
Neela took up his nights, but he worked long hours during the days.
Three or four hours of sleep proved to be enough. The blood seemed
to pump harder through his veins. This, he thought, wondering at his
undeserved good fortune, was renewal. Life had unexpectedly dealt
him a strong hand, and he would make the most of it. It was time for
a long, concentrated, perhaps even healing, burst of what Mila called
serious play.
The back-story of events on Galileo-1 had taken on a proliferating
life of its own. Never before had Solanka needed—wanted—to go into
such detail. Fiction had him in its grip, and the figurines themselves
began to feel secondary: not ends in themselves, but means. He, who
had been so dubious about the coming of the brave new electronic
world, was swept off his feet by the possibilities offered by the new
technology, with its formal preference for lateral leaps and its relative
uninterest in linear progression, a bias that had already bred in its
users a greater interest in variation than in chronology. This freedom
from the clock, from the tyranny of what happened next, was
exhilarating, allowing him to develop his ideas in parallel, without
worrying about sequence or step-by-step causation. Links were
electronic now, not narrative. Everything existed at once. This was,

Solanka realized, an exact mirror of the divine experience of time.
Until the advent of hyperlinks, only God had been able to see
simultaneously into past, present, and future alike; human beings
were imprisoned in the calendar of their days. Now, however, such
omniscience was available to all, at the merest click of a mouse.
On the website, as it came into being, visitors would be able to
wander at will between the project’s different storylines and themes:
Zameen of Rijk’s search for Akasz Kronos, Zameen vs. the Goddess of
Victory, the Tale of Two Dollmakers, Mogol the Baburian, Revolt of
the Living Dolls I: The Fall of Kronos, Revolt of the Living Dolls II
(This Time It’s War), The Humanization of the Machines vs. the
Mechanization of the Humans, the Battle of the Doubles, Mogol
Captures Kronos (or Is It the Dollmaker?), the Recantation of the
Dollmaker (or Was It Kronos?), and the grand finale, Revolt of the
Living Dolls III: The Fall of the Mogol Empire. Each of these in turn
would lead to further pages, plunging ever deeper into the
multidimensioned world of the Puppet Kings, offering games to play,
video segments to watch, chat rooms to enter, and, naturally, things
to buy.
Professor Solanka was intoxicated for hours on end by the Puppet
Kings’ six-pack of ethical dilemmas; was at once fascinated and
revolted by the emerging personality of Mogol the Baburian, who
turned out to be a competent poet, expert astronomer, passionate
cultivator of gardens, but also a soldier of Coriolanus-like blood lust,
and the most cruel of princes; and was deliriously entranced by the
shadow-play possibilities (intellectual, symbolic, confrontational,
mystificational, even sexual) of the two sets of doubles, the
encounters between “real” and “real,” “real” and “double,” “double”
and “double,” which blissfully demonstrated the dissolution of the
frontiers between the categories. He found himself inhabiting a world
he greatly preferred to the one outside his window, and thus came to
understand what Mila Milo had meant when she said that this was
where she felt most alive. Here, inside the electricity, Malik Solanka
emerged from the half-life of his Manhattan exile, traveled daily to
Galileo-1, and began, once more, to live.
Ever since Little Brain’s censored remarks to Galileo Galilei,
questions of knowledge and power, surrender and defiance, ends and
means, had gnawed at Solanka. “Galileo moments,” those dramatic
occasions when life asked the living whether they would dangerously

stand by the truth or prudently recant it, increasingly seemed to him
to lie close to the heart of what it was to be human. Man, I wouldn’t
have taken that stuff lying down. I’d have started a fucking revolution, me.
When the possessor of truth was weak and the defender of the lie was
strong, was it better to bend before the greater force? Or, by standing
firm against it, might one discover a deeper strength in oneself and
lay the despot low? When the soldiers of truth launched a thousand
ships and burned the topless towers of the lie, should they be seen as
liberators or had they, by using their enemy’s weapons against him,
themselves become the scorned barbarians (or even Baburians) whose
houses they had set on fire? What were the limits of tolerance? How
far, in the pursuit of the right, could we go before we crossed a line,
arrived at the antipodes of ourselves, and became wrong?
Near the climax of the back-story of Galileo-1, Solanka embedded
one such defining moment. Akasz Kronos, a fugitive from his own
creations, was captured in great old age by the Mogol’s soldiers and
brought in chains to the Baburian court. By this time the Puppet Kings
and the Baburians had been at war for a long generation, locked in a
stalemate as debilitating as the Trojan War, and ancient Kronos, as
creator of the cyborgs, was blamed for all their deeds. His explanation
of his creations’ arrival at autonomy was rejected by the Mogol with a
snort of disbelief. There followed, in the pages Solanka wrote, a long
dispute between the two men on the nature of life itself—life as
created by a biological act, and life as brought into being by the
imagination and skill of the living. Was life “natural,” or could the
“unnatural” be said to be alive? Was the imagined world necessarily
inferior to the organic one? Kronos was still a creative genius in spite
of his downfall and long penurious concealment, and he proudly
defended his cyborgs: by every definition of sentient existence, they
had grown into full-fledged life-forms. Like Homo faber, they were
users of tools; like Homo sapiens, they reasoned and engaged in moral
debate. They could attend to their ills and reproduce their species,
and by shedding him, their maker, they had set themselves free. The
Mogol rejected these arguments out of hand. A malfunctioning
dishwasher did not become a busboy, he argued. By the same token, a
rogue puppet was still a doll, a renegade robot was still a robot. This
was not a fit direction for their discussions to take. Rather, it was for
Kronos to recant his theories and then provide the Baburian
authorities with the technological data required to bring the Peekay

machines under control. If he refused, the Mogol added, changing the
tenor of the conversation, he would of course be tortured and, if
necessary, torn limb from limb.
The “recantation of Kronos,” his declaration that machines had no
souls whereas man was immortal, was greeted by the deeply religious
Baburian people as a mighty victory. Armed with information
provided by the broken scientist, the antipodean army created new
weapons, which paralyzed the cyborgs’ neurosystems and rendered
them inoperative. (The term “killed” was forbidden; what was not
alive could not be dead.) The Peekay forces fled in disarray, and a
Baburian victory looked assured. The Dollmaker cyborg himself lay
among the fallen. Too egotistical—too “consistent”—to have created
any replicas of himself, the Dollmaker was still one of a kind; thus his
character was erased with his termination. The only person who could
have re-created him was Akasz Kronos, whose fate was obscure.
Perhaps the Mogol killed him, even after his abject surrender; or
perhaps he was blinded like Tiresias and permitted, by way of further
humiliation, to wander the world, begging bowl in hand, “speaking
the truth that no man would believe,” while from every quarter he
heard tales of the collapse of his own great enterprises, of the
reduction of the great Kronosian Puppet Kings, the sentient cyborgs
from Rijk, the first machines ever to cross the frontier between
mechanical entities and living beings, into piles of useless junk. And
while nobody would now believe the truth that he had himself
denied, he himself had no choice but to accept the reality of the
catastrophe that his own cowardice, his lack of moral fortitude, had
brought about.
At the eleventh hour, however, the tide turned. The Puppet Kings
regrouped under a new, dual leadership. Zameen of Rijk and her
cyborg counterpart the Goddess of Victory joined forces, like twin
Ranis of Jhansi rising up against imperialist oppression, or like Little
Brain in a new, double-trouble incarnation, leading her promised
revolution. They used their combined scientific brilliance to build
electronic shields against the new Baburian weapons. Then, with
Zameen and the Goddess at their head, the Peekay army began a
major offensive and invested the Mogol’s citadel. Thus began the
Siege of Baburia, which would not end for a generation or more …
In the world of the imagination, in the creative cosmos that had
begun with simple doll-making and then proliferated into this many-

armed, multimedia beast, it wasn’t necessary to answer questions; far
better to find interesting ways of rephrasing them. Nor was it
necessary to end the story—indeed, it was vital to the project’s long-
term prospects that the tale be capable of almost indefinite
prolongation, with new adventures and themes being grafted onto it
at regular intervals and new characters to sell in doll, toy, and robot
form. The backstory was a skeleton that periodically grew new bones,
the framework for a fictional beast capable of constant
metamorphosis, which fed on every scrap it could find: its creator’s
personal history, scraps of gossip, deep learning, current affairs, high
and low culture, and the most nourishing diet of all—namely, the
past. The ransacking of the world’s storehouse of old stories and
ancient histories was entirely legitimate. Few Web users were familiar
with the myths, or even the facts, of the past; all that was needed was
to give the old material a fresh, contemporary twist. Transmutation
was all. The Puppet Kings website went on-line and at once achieved
and sustained a high level of “hits.” Comments flooded in, and the
river of Solanka’s imagination was fed from a thousand streams. It
began to swell and grow.
Because the work never settled, never stopped being a work in
progress but remained in a condition of perpetual revolution, a degree
of untidiness was inevitable. The histories of characters and places,
even their names, sometimes changed as Solanka’s vision of his
fictitious universe clarified and sharpened. Certain storyline
possibilities turned out to be stronger than he had at first realized,
and were greatly amplified. The Zameen/Goddess of Victory strand
was the most important of these. In the initial conception, Zameen
had simply been a beauty, not a scientist at all. Later, however, when
Solanka—prompted, he had to concede, by Mila Milo—understood
how important Zameen would be in the story’s climactic phase, he
went back and added much material to her early life, turning her into
Kronos’s scientific equal as well as his sexual and moral superior.
Other avenues turned out to be blind alleys and were discarded. For
example, in an early draft of the back-story, Solanka imagined that
the “Galilean” figure captured by the Mogol was the cyborg
Dollmaker, not the vanished Akasz Kronos. In this version the
Dollmaker’s denial of his right to be called a “life-form,” his
confession of his own inferiority, became a crime against himself and
his own race. Later the Dollmaker escaped from his Baburian jailers,

and when news of his “recantation” was spread by the Mogol’s
propaganda machine with the aim of undermining his leadership, the
cyborg hotly denied the accusations, announcing that he had not been
the prisoner in question, that in fact his human avatar, Kronos, was
the real traitor to the truth. Even though he discarded this version,
Solanka retained a soft spot for it, and often wondered if he’d been
wrong. Eventually, benefiting from the Web’s fondness for variora, he
added the excised story to the site, as a possible alternate version of
the facts.
The names Baburia and Mogol were late additions, too. Mogol of
course came from “Mughal,” and Babur had been the first of the
Mughal emperors. But the Babur of whom Malik Solanka had been
thinking wasn’t an old dead king. He was the designated leader of the
aborted “Indo-Lilly” parade-demonstration in New York, to whom, in
Solanka’s opinion, Neela Mahendra had paid far too much attention.
The parade had started out as a poor affair and ended up as a brawl.
At the northwest corner of Washington Square, under the faintly
interested scrutiny of assorted cold-drink salesmen, magic tricksters,
unicyclists and cutpurses, one hundred or so men and a handful of
women of Indian-Lilliputian origin assembled, their numbers
augmented by American friends, lovers, spouses, members of the
usual left groupuscules, token “solidarity cadres” from other diaspora-
Indian communities in Brooklyn and Queens, and the inevitable
demonstration tourists. Over a thousand in toto, the organizers
claimed; around two hundred and fifty, said the police. The parallel
demonstration of the “indigenous” Elbees had been even less well
attended, and had shamefacedly dispersed without marching.
However, groups of disgruntled and well-lubricated Elbee males had
found their way to Washington Square to taunt the Indo-Lilly men and
hurl sexual insults at the women. Scuffles broke out; the N.Y.P.D.,
looking amazed that so tiny an event could have generated such heat,
moved in a few beats too late. As the crowd fled the advancing police
officers, several quick knifings took place, none of them lethal. Within
instants, the square was empty of demonstrators, except for Neela
Mahendra, Malik Solanka, and a hairless giant, who stood stripped to
the waist, holding a megaphone in one hand and in the other a
wooden flagstaff bearing the new saffron-and-green flag of the
proposed “Republic of Filbistan”—the FILB stood for “Free Indian
Lilliput-Blefuscu” and the rest was added on because it sounded like a

word from “home.” This was Babur, the young political leader who
had traveled all the way from his distant islands to address the “rally,”
and who now looked so forlorn, so shorn of purpose as well as hair, so
unexpressed, that Neela Mahendra hastened to his side, leaving
Solanka where he stood. When he saw Neela approaching, the young
giant let go of the flagstaff, which thumped him on the head as it fell.
He staggered but, to his considerable credit, remained upright.
Neela was all solicitude, evidently believing that by giving Babur
the full benefit of her beauty she could make up for his long, useless
trip. And Babur did indeed brighten, and began, after a few moments,
to address Neela as if she were the enormous and politically
significant public meeting he had hoped for. He spoke of a Rubicon
being crossed, of no compromise and no surrender. Now that the hard-
won constitution had been abrogated and Indo-Lilly participation in
the government of Lilliput-Blefuscu so shamefully terminated, he said,
only extreme measures would suffice. “Rights are never given by
those who have them,” he declaimed, “only taken by those in need.”
Neela’s eyes brightened. She mentioned her television project, and
Babur nodded gravely, seeing that something might be salvaged from
the rubble of the day. “Come,” he said, taking her arm. (Solanka
noted the ease with which she slipped her arm through her
countryman’s.) “Come. We must discuss these things for many hours.
There is much that needs urgently to be done.” Neela left with Babur
without a backward glance.
Solanka was still in Washington Square at closing time that night,
sitting wretchedly on a bench. As a patrol car was ordering him to
leave, his cell phone rang. “I’m really sorry, honey,” Neela said. “He
was so unhappy, and it is my work, we did need to talk. Anyway, I
don’t need to explain. You’re a smart man. I’m sure you worked it out.
You should meet Babur. He’s so full of passion it’s scary, and after the
revolution he may even be president. Oh, can you hold on, honey? It’s
the other line.” She had spoken of the revolution as an inevitability.
With a deep rumble of alarm, Solanka, on hold, remembered her own
declaration of war. I’ll fight alongside them if I have to, shoulder to
shoulder. I’m not kidding, I really will. He looked at the bloodstains
drying on the darkened square, evidence here in New York City of the
force of a gathering fury on the far side of the world: a group fury,
born of long injustice, beside which his own unpredictable temper
was a thing of pathetic insignificance, the indulgence, perhaps, of a

privileged individual with too much self-interest. And too much time
on his hands. He could not give Neela up to this higher, antipodean
rage. Come back, he wanted to say. Come to me, my darling, please
don’t go. But she was back on the line, and her voice had changed.
“It’s Jack,” she said. “He’s dead, his head’s been blown off, and there’s
a confession in his hand.” You’ve seen the headless Winged Victory,
Solanka dully thought. You’ve heard of the Headless Horseman. Give
it up for my headless friend Jack Rhinehart, the Wingless, Horseless
Defeat.

PART
three

15
Nothing made sense. Jack’s body had been found in the Spassky Grain
Building, a Tribeca construction site on the corner of Greenwich and
N Moore whose developers had recently come under union fire for
employing scab labor. It was a fifteen-minute walk from Jack’s
Hudson Street apartment, and he had apparently strolled here with a
loaded shotgun in his hand, crossed Canal—still busily crowded in
spite of the late hour—without attracting attention, then broken into
his chosen location, taken an elevator to the fourth floor, positioned
himself by a west-facing window with a good view of the moonlit
river, placed the snout of the gun in his mouth, pulled the trigger, and
fallen to the rough, unfinished floor, dropping the weapon but
somehow holding on to the suicide note. He had been drinking
heavily: Jack Daniel’s and Coke, an absurd drink for an oenophile like
Rhinehart. When he was discovered, his suit and shirt were folded
neatly on the floor, and he was wearing only his socks and
underpants, which, for some reason, or perhaps by chance, were on
back to front. He had recently cleaned his teeth.
Neela decided to make a clean breast of it and told the detectives
everything she knew—the fancy-dress costumes in Jack’s closet, her
suspicions, everything. She could have been in trouble, withholding
information being a serious offense, but the police had bigger fish to
fry, and, besides, the two officers who came to her Bedford Street
apartment to interview her and Malik Solanka were having troubles of
their own in her presence. They kept breaking pencils and stepping on
each other’s feet and knocking over ornaments and bursting into
simultaneous speech and then falling blushingly silent, to none of
which Neela paid the slightest attention. “The point is,” she concluded
as the two detectives bumped heads in eager agreement, “this so-
called suicide smells strongly of fish.”

Malik and Neela had known that Jack owned a gun, though they
had never seen it. It dated from the black-Hemingway hunting-and-
fishing period that had preceded his Tiger Woods phase. Now, like
poor Ernest, most feminine of great male American writers, destroyed
by his failure to be the phony, macho Papa-self he had chosen to
inhabit, Jack had gone hunting for himself, the biggest game of all.
That, at least, was what they were being invited to believe. On closer
examination, however, this version of events became less and less
convincing. Jack’s building had a doorman, who had seen him leave
the premises alone at around seven , carrying no bags and dressed
P.M.
for an evening on the town. A second witness, a plump young woman
wearing a beret who had been waiting on the sidewalk for a taxi,
came forward in response to a police appeal to say that she had seen a
man answering to Jack’s description getting into a large black sports
utility vehicle with smoked windows; through the open door, she had
briefly glimpsed at least two other men, with, and she was quite clear
on this point, large cigars in their mouths. An identical SUV was seen
driving away along Greenwich Street soon after the established time
of death. A couple of days later, analysis of the technical data from
what was already provisionally being called the crime scene revealed
that the damage to the Spassky Grain Building’s temporary access
door had not been inflicted by Rhinehart’s shotgun. No other
instrument capable of breaking down the very solid door—wooden,
with a reinforcing metal frame—was found on or near his body.
Moreover, it was strongly suspected that the damage to the door had
not been the means of gaining entry to the premises. Somebody had
had a key.
The suicide note itself was instrumental in establishing Jack’s
innocence. Rhinehart was famous for the polished precision of his
prose. He rarely made an error of syntax, and never, never made a
spelling mistake. Yet here among his last words were solecisms of the
worst kind. “Ever since my war corespondent days,” the note read, “I
have had a violent streak. Sometimes in the middle of the nite I smash
up the phone. Horse, Club and Stash are innocent. I killed their girls
bec they would-not fuckme, probably bec I was of Color.” And,
finally, heartbreakingly, “Tell Nila I love her. I know I fucked up but I
love her true.” Malik Solanka, when his turn came to be interviewed
by the police, told them emphatically that even though the note was
in Jack’s strong, unmistakable hand, it could not have been his freely

written work. “Either it has been dictated by somebody with a far
lower level of language skills than Jack or else he has deliberately
dumbed down his style to send us a message. Don’t you see? He has
even told us his three murderers’ names.”
When it was established that Keith “Club” Medford, last lover of the
late Lauren Klein, was the son of the wealthy developer and unionized
workers’ bête noire Michael Medford, one of whose companies was
handling the conversion of the Spassky Grain Building into a mixture
of high-end lofts and townhouse-style residences, and that Keith, who
had been asked to plan the project’s opening-night party, possessed a
set of keys, it became clear that the killers had made an irretrievable
mistake. Most murderers were stupid, and a life of privilege was no
defense against folly. Even the most expensive schools turned out
badly educated dolts, and Marsalis, Andriessen, and Medford were
semi-literate, arrogant young fools. And murderers, too. Club, faced
with the accumulating facts, was the first to confess. His buddies’
defenses collapsed a few hours later.
Jack Rhinehart was buried in the depths of Queens, thirty-five
minutes’ drive from the bungalow he’d bought his mother and still-
unmarried sister in Douglaston. “A house with a view,” he’d joked. “If
you go to the end of the yard and lean all the way over to your left,
you can just catch a what?, call it a whisper, of the Sound.” Now his
own view would forever be of urban blight. Neela and Solanka got a
car to drive them out. The cemetery was cramped, treeless,
comfortless, damp. Photographers moved around the small group of
mourners like pollution floating at the edges of a dark pond. Solanka
had somehow forgotten that there would be media interest in Jack’s
funeral. The moment the confessions had been made and the story of
the S & M Club became the society scandal of the summer, Professor
Solanka lost interest in the event’s public dimension. He was
mourning his friend Jack Rhinehart, the great, brave journalist, who
had been sucked down by glamour and wealth. To be seduced by
what one loathed was a hard destiny. To lose the woman you loved to
your best friend was perhaps even harder. Solanka had been a bad
friend to Jack, but then it had been Jack’s fate to be betrayed. His
secret sexual preferences, which he had never inflicted on Neela
Mahendra, but which meant that not even Neela would finally have
been enough for him, had led him into bad company. He had been
loyal to men who did not merit his loyalty, had persuaded himself of

their innocence—and what an effort that must have been for a natural
finder-out and muckraker, what delusionary brilliance he must have
employed!—and consequently had helped to shield them from the
law, and his reward was to be killed by them in a clumsy attempt at
scapegoating: to be sacrificed on the altar of their invincible,
egomaniacal pride.
A gospel singer had been hired to sing a farewell medley of
spirituals and more contemporary material: “Fix Me, Jesus” was
followed by Puff Daddy’s tribute to Notorious B.I.G., “Every Breath
You Take (I’ll Be Missing You);” then came “Rock My Soul (In the
Bosom of Abraham).” Rain looked imminent but was holding off. The
air was moist, as if full of tears. Here were Jack’s mother and sister;
also Bronislawa Rhinehart, the ex-wife, looking simultaneously
devastated and sexy in a short black dress and high-fashion veil.
Solanka nodded at Bronnie, to whom he’d never found anything to
say, and muttered empty words at the bereaved. The Rhinehart
women didn’t look sad; they looked angry. “Jack I know,” Jack’s
mother said briefly, “would’ve seen through those white boys in nine
seconds flat.” “Jack I know,” his sister added, “didn’t need no whips
or chains to have himself some fun.” They were mad at the man they
loved for the scandal but even madder at him for having put himself
in harm’s way, as if he had done it to hurt them, to leave them with
the lifelong pain of their bereavement. “The Jack I know,” Solanka
said, “was a pretty good man, and if he’s anywhere at all right now,
I’d say he’s happy to be set free from his mistakes.” Jack was right
there with them, of course. Jack in the box from which he would
never rise up. Solanka felt a hand tighten around his heart.
In his grief’s eye Solanka pictured Jack stretched out in an upscale
loft conversion while the whole world gossiped over his corpse and
photographers frothed about. Next to Jack lay the three dead girls.
Released from the fear of his own involvement in their deaths,
Solanka mourned them too. Here lay Lauren, who had become afraid
of what she was capable of doing to others and allowing others to do
to her. Bindy and Sky had tried and failed to keep her inside their
charmed circle of pleasure and pain, but she had sealed her fate by
threatening the club’s members with the shame of a public exposé.
Here lay Bindy, the first to comprehend that her friend’s death had
been no random killing but a coldblooded execution: which
comprehension was her own death warrant. And here lay Uptown

Sky, game-for-anything sexual athlete Sky, the wildest of the doomed
three and the most sexually uninhibited, her masochistic excesses—
now meticulously detailed in the delighted press—sometimes
alarming even her sadistic lover, Brad the Horse. Sky, who believed
herself immortal, who never thought they would come for her,
because she was the empress of their world, they followed where she
led, and her levels of tolerance, her thresholds, were the highest any
of them had ever known. She knew about the murders and was crazily
aroused by them, murmured in Marsalis’s ears that she had no
intention of blowing the whistle on so much man, and whispered to
both Stash and Club in turn that she would be happy to stand in for
her dead friends in any way they wanted, just name it, baby, it’s
yours. She also explained to all three men, in separate, luridly retold
encounters, that the killings bound them together for life; they had
passed the point of no return, and the contract of their love had been
signed in her friends’ lifeblood. Sky, the vampire queen. She died
because her killers were too scared of her sexual fury to let her live.
Three scalped girls. The public talk was of voodoo and fetishism,
and above all of the icy ruthlessness of the crimes, but Solanka
preferred to ponder the death of the heart. These young girls, so
desperately desirous of desire, had only been able to find it at the
outside extremes of human sexual behavior. And these three young
men, for whom love had become a question of violence and
possession, of doing and being done to, had gone to the frontier
between love and death, and their fury had worn it away, the fury
they could not articulate, born of what they, who had so much, had
never been able to acquire: lessness, ordinariness. Real life.
In a thousand, ten thousand, a hundred thousand horrified
conversations buzzing over the dead like stench-seeking flies, the city
discussed the murders’ most minute details. They killed one another’s
girls! Lauren Klein had been taken out by Medford for one last grand
night on the town. She sent him home, as he had planned, because of
a quarrel he’d deliberately provoked near the evening’s end. A few
moments later he phoned her, pretending to have had a car accident
just around the corner. She ran out to help him, found his vintage
Bentley unmarked and waiting with its door open. Poor babe. She
thought he wanted to apologize. Annoyed at the deception but not
alarmed, she climbed in, and was hit repeatedly on the head by
Andriessen and Marsalis, while Medford drank margaritas in a nearby

bar, announcing loudly that he was drowning his sorrows because his
bitch wouldn’t put out, obliging the bartender to ask him to shut up or
leave, and making sure his presence would be remembered. And then
the scalping. They must’ve put down plastic sheeting to make sure the car
wasn’t stained. And the body thrown like garbage in the street. The same
technique worked on Belinda Candell.
Sky, however, was different. As was her way, she took the initiative,
whispering her plans for the night to Bradley Marsalis over their last
supper. Not tonight, he said, and she shrugged. “Okay. I’ll call Stash
or Club and see if they’re up for some fun.” Furious, insulted, but
obliged to stick to the game plan, Brad said good night at her lobby
door, and phoned her a few minutes later, saying, “Okay, you win, but
not here. Meet me at the room.” (The room was the soundproofed
five-star hotel suite booked year-round by the S&M Club for the use of
its noisier members. Bradley Marsalis, it was revealed, had made the
booking several days in advance, which went to prove premeditation.)
Sky never reached the room. A large black sports utility vehicle pulled
up beside her and a voice she recognized said, “Hi, princess. Climb
aboard. Horse asked us to give you a little ride.”
Twenty, nineteen, nineteen, Solanka counted. Their combined age
had been just three years more than his.
And what of Jack Rhinehart, who lived through a dozen wars only
to die miserably in Tribeca, who wrote so well on much that mattered
and so stylishly on much that didn’t, and whose last words were,
deliberately or by necessity, both poignant and inane? Jack’s story
was all out in the open, too. The theft of the shotgun by Horse
Marsalis. Jack’s invitation to his S&M Club induction ceremony. You
made it, man. You’re in. Even when they arrived at the Spassky Grain
Building, Rhinehart had no idea he was close to death. He was
probably thinking of the orgy scene in Eyes Wide Shut, imagining
masked girls naked on podiums, waiting for the sting of his sweet
lash. Solanka was weeping now. He heard the killers insist that, as
part of the ritual, Rhinehart needed to drink a brimming jug of Jack
and Coke, the spoiled kids’ tipple, at high speed. He heard them order
Jack to strip and reverse his underpants, in the name of club tradition.
As if it were being tied around his own eyes, Solanka felt the blindfold
they had used on Jack (and afterward removed). His tears soaked
through the imagined silk. Okay, Jack, are you ready, this’ll blow you
away.—What’s happening, guys, what’s the deal?—Just open your mouth,

Jack. Did you clean your teeth like we said? Good job. Say aah, Jack.
This’ll kill you, doll. How pathetically easy it had been to lure this
good, weak man to his death. How willingly—giving five high, getting
five low—he stepped into his own hearse and took his brief last ride.
Lord, rock my soul, the singer cried. Good-bye, Jack, Solanka said
silently to his friend. Go on home. I’ll be calling you.
Neela took Malik back to Bedford Street, opened a bottle of red wine,
drew the curtains, lit many scented candles, and disrespectfully
selected a CD of Bollywood song classics from the fifties and early
sixties—music from his forbidden past. This was an aspect of her
profound emotional wisdom. In all things pertaining to feeling, Neela
Mahendra knew what worked. Kabhi méri gali aaya karó. The teasingly
romantic song lilted across the darkened room. Come up and see me
sometime. They hadn’t spoken since they left the graveside. She drew
him down onto a cushion-strewn rug and laid his head between her
breasts, wordlessly reminding him of the continued existence of
happiness, even in the midst of grief.
She spoke of her beauty as something a little separate from herself.
It had simply “showed up.” It wasn’t the result of anything she’d done.
She took no credit for it, was grateful for the gift she’d been given,
took great care of it, but mostly thought of herself as a disembodied
entity living behind the eyes of this extraordinary alien, her body:
looking out through its large eyes, manipulating its long limbs, not
quite able to believe her luck. Her impact on her surroundings—the
fallen window cleaners sitting splay-legged on various sidewalks with
buckets on their heads, the skidding cars, the danger to cleaver-
wielding butchers when she stopped by for meat—was a phenomenon
of whose results, for all her apparent unconcern, she was sharply,
precisely aware. She could control “the effect” to some degree.
“Doesn’t know how to switch it off,” Jack had said, and that was true,
but she could play it down with the help of loose-fitting clothes
(which she detested) and wide-brimmed hats (which, as a sun hater,
she adored). More impressively, she could intensify the world’s
response to her by making fine-tuning adjustments to her stride
length, the tilt of her chin, her mouth, her voice. At maximum
intensity she threatened to reduce entire precincts to disaster areas,
and Solanka had to ask her to stop, not least because of the effect she
was having on his own state of body and mind. She liked

compliments, described herself as a “high-maintenance girl,” and at
times was prepared to concede that this compartmentalization of
herself into “form” and “content” was a useful fiction. Her description
of her sexual being as “the other one” who periodically came out to
hunt and would not be denied was a clever ruse, a shy person’s way of
tricking herself into extroversion. It allowed her to reap the rewards
of her exceptional erotic presence without being troubled by the
paralyzing social awkwardness that had plagued her as a stammering
young girl. Too astute to speak directly of the strong sense of right
and wrong that quietly informed all her actions, she preferred to
quote the cartoon sex bomb Jessica Rabbit. “I’m not bad,” she liked
demurely to purr. “I’m just drawn that way.”
She held him close. The contrast with the Mila liaison was very
striking. With Mila, Solanka had allowed himself to sink toward the
sickly allure of the unmentionable, the unallowed, whereas when
Neela wrapped herself around him the opposite was true, everything
became mentionable and was mentioned, everything was allowable
and allowed. This was no child-woman, and what he was discovering
with her was the adult joy of unforbidden love. He had thought of his
addiction to Mila as a weakness; this new bond felt like strength. Mila
had accused him of optimism, and she was right. Neela was
optimism’s justification. And, yes, he was grateful to Mila for finding
the key to the doors of his imagination. But if Mila Milo had unlocked
the floodgate, Neela Mahendra was the flood.
In Neela’s arms Solanka felt himself begin to change, felt the inner
demons he feared so much growing weaker by the day, felt
unpredictable rage give way to the miraculous predictability of this
new love. Pack your bags, Furies, he thought, you no longer reside at
this address. If he was right, and the origin of fury lay in life’s
accumulating disappointments, then he had found the antidote that
transformed the poison into its opposite. For furia could be ecstasy,
too, and Neela’s love was the philosopher’s stone that made possible
the transmuting alchemy. Rage grew out of despair: but Neela was
hope fulfilled.
The door to his past remained closed, and she had the grace not to
push against it just yet. Her need for a degree of personal and
psychological privacy was considerable. After their initial night in a
hotel room, she had insisted on using her own bed for their
encounters, but made it clear that he wasn’t welcome to spend the

night. Her sleep was filled with nightmares, yet she didn’t want the
comfort of his presence. She preferred to battle her dream-figments
alone and, at the end of each night’s wars, to wake up slowly, and
definitely by herself. Having no alternative, Solanka accepted her
terms, and began to grow accustomed to fighting off the waves of
sleep that habitually rolled over him at love-making’s end. He told
himself that it was better for him this way as well. He was, after all,
suddenly a very busy man.
He was learning her better every day, exploring her as if she were a
new city in which he had sublet space and where he hoped one day to
buy. She wasn’t completely at ease with that idea. Like him, she was a
creature of moods, and he was becoming her personal meteorologist,
predicting her weather, studying the duration of her internal gales
and their sideswipe effects, in the form of crashing storms, on the
golden beaches of their love. Sometimes she liked being seen in such
microscopic detail, loved being understood without speaking, having
her needs catered to without having to express them. On other
occasions it annoyed her. He would see a cloud on her brow and ask,
“What’s the matter?” In response she’d look exasperated and say, “Oh,
nothing. For Pete’s sake! You think you can read my mind, but you’re
so often so wrong. If there’s something to be said, I’ll say it. Don’t
meet trouble halfway.” She had invested a great deal of effort in
building an image of strength and didn’t want the man she loved to
see her weaknesses.
Medication, he soon discovered, was an issue for Neela, too, and
this was another thing they had in common: that they were
determined to beat their demons without entering the valley of the
dolls. So when she felt low, when she needed to wrestle with herself,
she would retreat from him, wouldn’t want to see him or explain why,
and he was expected to understand, to be grown-up enough to allow
her to be what she needed to be; in short, for perhaps the first time in
his life he was being required to act his age. She was a highly strung
woman, and sometimes admitted that she must be a nightmare to be
around, to which he replied, “Yes, but there are compensations.” “I
hope they’re big,” she said, looking genuinely worried. “If they
weren’t, I’d be pretty stupid, wouldn’t I?” He grinned, and she relaxed
and moved in close. “That’s right,” she comforted herself. “And you’re
not.”
She possessed immense physical ease, and was actually happier

naked than clothed. More than once he had to remind her to dress
when there was a knock at her door. But she wanted to guard some
secrets, to protect her mystery. Her frequent withdrawals into herself,
her habit of recoiling from being too acutely seen, had to do with this
very un-American—this positively English—awareness of the value of
reserve. She insisted that it had nothing to do with whether she loved
him or not, which she deeply and bewilderingly did. “Look, it’s
obvious,” she replied when he asked why. “You may be very creative
with your dolls and websites and all, but as far as I’m concerned, your
only function is to get into my bed whenever I tell you and fulfill my
every whim.” At which imperious dictum Professor Malik Solanka,
who had wanted to be a sex object all his life, felt quite absurdly
pleased.
After making love, she lit a cigarette and went to sit naked by the
window to smoke it, knowing his hatred of tobacco smoke. Lucky
neighbors, he thought, but she dismissed such considerations as
bourgeois and far beneath her. She returned with a straight face to the
question he had asked. “The thing about you,” she offered, “is that
you’ve got a heart. This is a rare quality in the contemporary guy.
Take Babur: an amazing man, brilliant, really, but totally in love with
the revolution. Real people are just counters in his game. With most
other guys it’s status, money, power, golf, ego. Jack, for example.”
Solanka hated the laudatory reference to the smooth-bodied flag-
bearer of Washington Square, felt a sharp twinge of guilt at being
favorably compared to his dead friend, and said so. “You see,” she
marveled, “you don’t just feel, you can actually talk about it. Wow.
Finally, a man worth staying with.” Solanka had the feeling that he
was being obscurely sent up, but couldn’t quite identify the joke.
Feeling foolish, he settled for the affection in her voice. Love Potion
Number Nine. That was the healing balm.
India was insisted upon everywhere in the Bedford Street apartment,
in the overemphasized manner of the diaspora: the filmi music, the
candles and incense, the Krishna-and-milkmaids calendar, the
dhurries on the floor, the Company School painting, the hookah coiled
atop a bookcase like a stuffed green snake. Neela’s Bombay alter ego,
Solanka mused, pulling on his clothes, would probably have gone for
a heavily Westernized, Californian-minimalist simplicity … but never
mind about Bombay. Neela was getting dressed as well, pulling on her

most “aerodynamically” body-hugging black outfit, made in some
nameless space-age fabric. She needed to go to the office in spite of
the late hour. The pre-production period on the Lilliput documentary
was almost over, and she would be leaving for the antipodes soon.
There was still much to do. Get used to this, Solanka thought. Her
need for absence is professional as well as personal. To be with this
woman is also to learn to be without her. She tied the laces on her
white street flyers—sneakers with flip-out wheels built into the soles
—and took off at speed, her long black ponytail flying out behind her
as she raced away. Solanka stood on the sidewalk and watched her go.
The “effect,” he noted as the usual mayhem began, worked almost as
well in the dark.
He went to FAO Schwarz and sent Asmaan an elephant by mail. Soon
the last vestiges of old fury would have been dispelled by new
happiness and he would feel confident enough to re-enter his son’s
life. To do so, however, he would have to face Eleanor and confront
her with the fact she still refused to accept. He would have to bury
finality like a knife in her good and loving heart.
He telephoned to tell Asmaan to expect a surprise. Great
excitement. “What’s inside it? What’s it saying? What would Morgen
say?” Eleanor and Asmaan had been holidaying in Florence with the
Franzes. “There’s no beach here. No. There’s a river, but I douldn’t
swim in it. Maybe when I’m bigger I’ll come back and swim in it. I
wasn’t stared, Daddy. That’s why Morgen and Lin were shouting.”
Scared. “Mummy wasn’t. Mummy wasn’t shouting. She said don’t be
stary, Morgen. Lin’s so nice. Mummy’s so nice too. That’s what I think,
anyway. He was being a bit stary. Morgen was. A tiny bit. Was he
trying to make me laugh? Probably. Do you know, Daddy? What was
he saying? We went to look at statues, but Lin douldn’t come. That’s
why she was trying. She stayed at home. Not our home, but. Ai
caramba.” This, Solanka understood after a moment, was I can’t
remember. “We stayed there. Yes. It was very good. I had my own
room. I like that. I’ve got a bow and arrow. I like you, Daddy, are you
coming home today? Saturday Tuesday? You should. ’Bye.”
Eleanor took over. “Yes, it was difficult. But Florence was lovely.
How are you?” He thought for a minute. “Fine,” he said. “I’m fine.”
She thought for a minute. “You shouldn’t promise him you’re coming

back if you aren’t,” she said, angling for information. “What’s the
matter?” he asked, changing the subject. “What’s the matter with
you?” she replied. That was all it took. He had already heard the
telltale wrongness in her voice and she in his. Thrown off balance by
what he had just understood, Solanka made the mistake of retreating
into Neela’s dialogue: “Oh, for Pete’s sake! You think you can read my
mind, but you’re so often so wrong. If there’s something to be said, I’ll
say it. Don’t meet trouble halfway.” Coming from Neela this had
sounded genuine enough, but in his mouth it came across as mere
bluster. Eleanor was scornfully amused. “For Pete’s sake?” she wanted
to know. “As in ‘Jeepers creepers,’ ‘Jiminy Cricket,’ or ‘What the
heck?’ When did you start using Ronald Reagan’s lines?” Her manner
was sharper, more irritable, nonplacatory. Morgen and Lin, Solanka
thought. Morgen, who had taken the trouble to ring him up to scold
him for abandoning his wife, and whose own wife had informed
Solanka that his behavior had brought her and her husband closer
together than ever before. Mm-hm. Morgen and Eleanor and Lin in
Florence. That’s why she was trying. Asmaan’s evidence left no doubt.
Because she was crying. Why was she crying, Morgen? Eleanor? Would
you care to fill me in on that? Would you care to explain, Eleanor,
why your new lover and his wife were quarreling in the presence of
my son?
The fury was passing from him, but everyone else seemed to be in
exceedingly poor humor. Mila was moving. Eddie had hired a van
from a company called Van-Go and was uncomplainingly hauling her
possessions down from the fourth floor while she stayed in the street
smoking a cigarette, drinking Irish whiskey from the bottle, and
bitching. Her hair was red now, and spikier than ever: even her head
looked angry. “What do you think you’re looking at?” she yelled up at
Solanka when she spotted him watching her from his second-floor
workroom window. “Whatever you want from me, Professor, it’s
unavailable. Got it? I’m a person engaged to be married and believe
me you don’t want my fiancé to get mad.” Against his better judgment
—for she had worked her way through most of the fifth of Jameson’s
—he went down to the street to talk to her. She was moving to
Brooklyn, moving in with Eddie in a small place in Park Slope, and
the webspyders had opened up an office there. The Puppet Kings site
was fast approaching its launch date, and things were looking good.

“Don’t worry, Professor,” Mila said blurrily. “Business is great. It’s just
you I can’t stand.”
Eddie Ford came down the front stairs carrying a computer
monitor. When he saw Solanka, he scowled theatrically. This was a
scene he had been wanting to play for a long time. “She doesn’t want
to talk to you, man,” he said, setting the monitor down. “Do I make
myself plain? Ms. Milo has no fuckin’ desire to fuckin’ converse. You
apprehend? You want to see her, call the office and seek a fuckin’
business appointment. Send us e-mail. You show up at her fuckin’
place of residence, you’ll be answerin’ to me. You and the lady got no
personal relationship no more. You’re fuckin’ estranged. If you ask
me, she’s a fuckin’ saint to want to do business with you at all. Me,
I’m not the saintly type. Me, I just want five minutes. Three hundred
seconds alone with you would suffice for my fuckin’ needs. Yes, sir.
You follow me, Professor? Am I on your frequency? Am I comin’
through?” Solanka bowed his head quietly and turned to go. “She told
me what you tried on her,” Eddie shouted after him. “You’re one
fuckin’ sad and sick old man.” And what did she tell you, Eddie, about
what she tried on me? Oh, never mind.
“Ah, Professor.” In the corridor outside his front door he ran into
the plumber, Schlink; or, rather, Schlink was waiting for him, waving
a document and bursting with words. “All is good in ze apartment?
No toilet problem? So, so. What Schlink fixes stays gefixt.” He nodded
and smiled furiously. “Maybe you don’t remember,” he continued. “I
vos frank viz you, eh?, my life story I shared viz you for nossink. From
zis you made a cruel choke. Maybe a movie, you said, could come
from my poor tale. Zis you did not mean. You spoke, I am sure of it,
in chest. So grand, Professor, so patronizing, you piece of shit.”
Solanka was greatly taken aback. “Yes,” Schlink emphasized. “I make
free to say so. I came here particular to tell you. You see, Professor, I
haff followed your advice, zis advice vot to you vos chust a schoopit
gag, and sanks Gott, success has blessed my effort. A film deal! See for
yourself, here it is in black and white. See here, ze studio name. See
here, ze financial aspect. Yes, a comedy, chust imagine. After a
lifetime vizout humor I vill be played for laughs. Billy Crystal in the
title role, he’s on board already, he’s crazy for it. A surefire hit, eh?
Lensing soon. Opens next spring. Lotsa buzz. Goes boffo right off. Big
opening veekend. Vait and see. Okay, so long, Professor Asshole, and
sank you for ze title. Jewboat. HA, ha, ha, HA.”

16
The inadequate summer closed overnight, like a Broadway flop. The
temperature fell like a guillotine; the dollar, however, soared.
Everywhere you looked, in gyms, clubs, galleries, offices, on the
streets, and on the floor of the NYSE, at the city’s great sports stadia
and entertainment centers, people were readying themselves for the
new season, limbering up for action, flexing their bodies, minds, and
wardrobes, setting themselves on their marks. Showtime on Olympus!
The city was a race. Mere rats need not bother to enter this high-
intensity competition. This was the main event, the blue riband
contest, the world series. This was the master race, whose winners
would be as gods. Second place was nowhere: “Loserville.” No silver
or bronze medals would be struck, and the only rule was victory or
bust.
Athletes were all over the airwaves that Olympic fall: disgraced
Chinese turtle-blood drinkers, Marion Jones’s mouth murmuring into
a microphone, Marion Jones’s husband testing positive for
nandrolone, Michael Johnson running along a telephone and breaking
records. What Jack Rhinehart had called the Divorce Olympics were
hotting up, too. Solanka’s ex-wife Sara Lear Schofield’s antique of a
second husband, Lester, died in his sleep before their final day in
court, but not before he’d cut her out of his will. The bitter war of
words between Sara, the Brazilian supermodel Ondine Marx, and
Schofield’s adult children from earlier marriages pushed the Concrete-
Killer Murders off the front pages at last. Sara emerged as the clear
winner of these preliminary verbal hostilities. She released
photocopied extracts from Schofield’s private diaries to prove that the
deceased had heartily detested all his children and sworn that he’d
never leave any of them so much as the price of the toll on the
Triborough Bridge. She also engaged private investigators to get the

goods on Ondine, the sole beneficiary of Schofield’s last, hotly
contested will. Details of the model’s bisexual promiscuity and
fondness for surgical improvement flooded the press. “She’s not my
type, but they say she’s a great tuck,” Sara commented acidly.
Ondine’s history of drug abuse and her sleazy porno-movie past also
featured prominently; and, best of all, the Pinkertons unearthed her
secret liaison with the handsome Paraguayan descendant of a Nazi
war criminal. These revelations led to the model’s investigation by
immigration officers and rumors of the imminent cancellation of her
green card. I’m still a foot soldier here but Britpack Sara commands
battalions, Malik Solanka thought with a kind of admiration. I’m just
a face in the crowd, but she’s one of its killer queens.
PlanetGalileo.com, the Puppet Kings project, his last stab at the big
time, had acquired powerful allies. The webspyders had spread their
nets well. Backers and sponsors were eager to get in on the ground
floor of this important new launch by the creator of the legendary
Little Brain. Major production, distribution, and marketing
agreements with key players—Mattel, Amazon, Sony, Columbia,
Banana Republic—were already in place. A universe of toys was in the
pipeline, everything from soft stuffed dolls to life-size robots with
voices and flashing lights, to say nothing of Halloween-special
costumes. There were boxed games and jigsaw puzzles and nine kinds
of spacecraft and cyborg neutralizers and scale models of the entire
planet Galileo-1, and, for the real nuts, its entire solar system, too.
Amazon’s pre-orders for the back-story book Revolt of the Living Dolls
were close to the Little Brain phenomenon’s record-breaking fever-
pitch levels. A Playstation game was close to being shipped and was
already being heavily marketed; a new fashion line bearing the
Galileo label was ready to show during the 7th on Sixth fashion week;
and, driven by the fear of a major actors’ and writers’ strike in the
coming spring, a big-budget movie was on the verge of being green-
lit. Banks competed with each other to lend money, sending the
interest rate on the huge loans required spinning daily lower and
lower. The largest mainland Chinese ISP had asked to come in and
talk. Mila, as the webspyders’ frontwoman, was working around the
clock, with extraordinary results. Solanka’s relations with her
remained on ice, however. Plainly, she was far angrier at being
dumped than she had initially allowed herself to appear. Solanka was
kept well informed by her of all developments and instructed to

prepare himself for a media blitz, but as far as human contact was
concerned, barbed wire might as well have stretched across the
Manhattan and Brooklyn Bridges, with duplicated, three-headed
versions of Eddie Ford guarding over both. In the electronic world,
Solanka and the webspyders worked closely together for hours a day.
Outside it, they were strangers. That was, apparently, how it had to
be.
Fortunately, Neela was still in town, though the reason for her
continued presence was disturbing, and greatly distracted her. There
had been a coup in Lilliput-Blefuscu, led by a certain Skyresh
Bolgolam, an indigenous Elbee merchant whose argosies had all failed
and who accordingly detested the prosperous Indo-Lilly traders with a
passion that could have been called racist if it had not been so
obviously rooted in professional envy and personal pique. The coup
seemed spectacularly unnecessary; under pressure from the
Bolgolamites, the country’s liberal president, Golbasto Gue, who had
pushed through a program of constitutional reform designed to give
Indian-Lilliputians equal electorial and property rights, had already
been obliged to reverse course and throw out the new constitution
only weeks after it had come into being. Bolgolam, however,
suspected a ruse and at the beginning of September marched into the
Lilliputian Parliament in the city center of Mildendo, accompanied by
two hundred armed ruffians, and took hostage around fifty Indo-Lilly
parliamentarians and political staff members, as well as President Gue
himself. At the same time, Bolgolamite goon squads attacked and
imprisoned leading members of the Indo-Lilly political leadership. The
country’s radio and television stations and the main telephone
switchboard were seized. At Blefuscu International Aerodrome the
runways were blockaded; the sea-lanes into Mildendo harbor were
likewise blocked. The islands’ main Internet server, Lillicon, was
closed down by the Bolgolam gang. However, some limited e-activity
continued.
The whereabouts of Neela’s friend from the New York
demonstration were not known; but as news slowly filtered out of
Lilliput in spite of Bolgolam’s gags, it was established that Babur was
not among those held hostage in the Parliament or in jail. If he hadn’t
been killed, then he had gone underground. Neela decided this was
the likelier alternative. “If he was dead, this rogue Bolgolam would
have released the news, I’m sure. Just to demoralize the opposition

even more.” Solanka saw very little of her during these post-coup days
as she attempted, often in the small hours of the night on account of
the thirteen-hour time difference, to make contact via World Wide
Web and satphone links with what was now the Filbistani Resistance
Movement (the FRM, or “Fremen”). She also busily researched ways
and means of effecting an illegal entry into Lilliput-Blefuscu from
Australia or Borneo, accompanied by a skeleton camera crew. Solanka
began to fear greatly for her safety and, in spite of the greater
historical importance of the matters presently claiming her attention,
for his newfound happiness as well. Suddenly jealous of her work, he
nursed imaginary grievances, told himself he was being slighted and
ignored. At least his fictional Zameen of Rijk, arriving covertly on
Baburian soil, had been looking for her man (though with what intent,
he granted, was unclear). A dreadful further possibility presented
itself. Perhaps Neela was looking for a man in Lilliput as well as a
story. Now that history’s mantle had fallen on the inadequate
shoulders of the hairless, bare-chested flag-waver she so admired, was
it not possible that Neela had begun to think this muscle-bound Babur
an altogether more attractive proposition than a sedentary middle-
aged merchant of fairy tales and toys? For what other reason would
she plan to risk her life by sneaking into Lilliput-Blefuscu to find him?
Just for a documentary film? Ha! That rang false. There was a pretext,
if you liked. And Babur, her burgeoning desire for Babur, was the text.
One night, late, and only after he’d made a big deal of it, she came
to visit him at West Seventieth Street. “I thought you’d never ask,” she
laughed when she arrived, trying, by sounding lighthearted, to dispel
the thick cloud of tension in the air. He couldn’t tell her the truth:
that in the past, Mila’s presence next door had inhibited him. They
were both too tense and exhausted to make love. She had been
pursuing her leads, and he had spent the day talking to journalists
about life on Galileo-1, an unnerving, hollowing kind of work, during
which he could hear himself sounding false, knowing also that a
second layer of falsehood would be added by the journalists’ responses
to his words. Solanka and Neela watched Letterman without speaking.
Unused to difficulties in their relationship, they had forged no
language for dealing with trouble. The longer the silence between
them lasted, the uglier it grew. Then, as if the bad feeling had burst
out of their heads and taken physical form, they heard a piercing
shriek. Then the sound of something shattering. Then a second, louder

screech. Then, for a long time, nothing.
They went out into the street to investigate. The vestibule of
Solanka’s building had an inner door that could usually only be
opened with a key, but its metal frame was warped at present and the
lock wouldn’t engage. The outer door, the street door, was never
locked. This was worrying, even in the new, safer Manhattan. If there
was danger out there, it could in theory come inside. But the street
was quiet and empty, as if nobody else had heard a thing. Certainly,
nobody else had come out to see what was going on. And in spite of
the loud crash, there was nothing whatsoever on the pavement, no
broken plant pot or vase. Neela and Solanka looked around, bemused.
Other lives had touched theirs and then vanished. It was as though
they had overheard the quarreling of ghosts. The sash window of
what had been Mila’s apartment was wide open, however, and as they
looked up, the silhouette of a man appeared and pulled it firmly shut.
Then the lights went out. Neela said, “It’s got to be him. It’s like he
missed her the first time but got her the second.” And the breaking
noise, Solanka asked. She just shook her head, went indoors, and
insisted on calling the police. “If I was being murdered and my
neighbors did nothing, I’d be pretty disappointed, wouldn’t you?”
Two officers came to see them within the hour, took down
statements, then left to investigate and never returned. “You’d think
they would come back and say what happened,” Neela cried in
frustration. “They must know we’re sitting here worried sick in the
middle of the night.” Solanka snapped, letting his resentment show. “I
guess they just didn’t realize it was their duty to report to you,” he
said, without making any attempt to keep the cutting edge out of his
voice. She rounded on him at once, fully his equal in aggression.
“What’s eating you, anyway?” she demanded. “I’m tired of pretending
I’m not hanging out with a sore-headed bear.” And so it began, the
sorry human tailspin of recrimination and counter-recrimination, the
deadly accusative old game: you said no you said, you did no it was
you, let me tell you I’m not just tired I’m really tired of this because
you need so much and give so little, is that so well let me tell you I
could give you the contents of Fort Knox and Bergdorf Goodman and
it still wouldn’t be enough, and what does that mean, may I ask, you
know damn well what it means. Oh. Right. Oh okay then, I guess
that’s it. Sure, if that’s what you want. What I want? It’s what you’re
forcing me to say. No, it’s what you’ve been dying to spit out. Jesus

Christ stop putting words in my mouth. I should have known. No, I
should have known. Well, now we both know. Okay then. Okay.
Just then, as they stood facing each other like bloodied gladiators,
giving and receiving the wounds that would soon leave their love
dead on the floor of this emotional Colosseum, Professor Malik
Solanka saw a vision that stilled his lashing tongue. A great black bird
sat on the roof of the house, its wings casting a deep shadow over the
street. The Fury is here, he thought. One of the three sisters has come
for me at last. Those weren’t screams of fear we heard; they were the
Fury’s call. The noise of something shattering in the street—an
explosive sound, such as a lump of concrete might make if hurled
from a great height with unimaginable force—wasn’t any goddamn
vase. It was the sound of a breaking life.
And who knows what might have happened, or of what, in the grip
of the revenant fury, he might have become capable, if it hadn’t been
for Neela, if she hadn’t been standing a whole head taller than him in
her high heels and looking down like a queen, like a goddess, on his
full head of long silver hair; or if she had lacked the wit to see the
terror flooding across his soft, round, boyish face, the fear quivering
at the corners of his Cupid’s bow mouth; or if in that last of all
possible instants she had not found the inspired daring, the sheer
emotional brilliance, to break the last taboo that still stood between
them, to go into uncharted territory with all the courage of her love,
to prove beyond all doubt that their love was stronger than fury by
stretching out a long scarred arm and beginning, with great
deliberation, and for the very first time in her life, to ruffle his
forbidden hair, the long silver hair growing out of the top of his head.
The spell broke. He laughed out loud. A large black crow spread its
wings and flew away across town, to drop dead minutes later by the
Booth statue in Gramercy Park. Solanka understood that his own cure,
his recovery from his rare condition, was complete. The goddesses of
wrath had departed; their hold over him was broken at last. Much
poison had been drained from his veins, and much that had been
locked away for far too long was being set free. “I want to tell you a
story,” he said; and Neela, taking his hand, led him to a sofa. “Tell me
by all means, but I think it may be one I already know.”
• • •

At the end of the science fiction film Solaris, the story of an ocean-
covered planet that functions as a single giant brain, can read men’s
minds, and make their dreams come true, the spaceman-hero is back
home at last, on the porch of his long-lost Russian dacha, with his
children running joyfully around and his beautiful, dead wife alive
again at his side. As the camera pulls back, endlessly, impossibly, we
see that the dacha is on a tiny island set in the great ocean of Solaris:
a delusion, or perhaps a deeper truth than the truth. The dacha
diminishes to a speck and vanishes, and we are left with the image of
the mighty, seductive ocean of memory, imagination, and dream,
where nothing dies, where what you need is always waiting for you
on a porch, or running toward you across a vivid lawn with childish
cries and happy, open arms.
Tell me. I already know. Neela, with her heart-wisdom, had guessed
why, for Professor Solanka, the past was not a joy. When he saw
Solaris, he’d found that last scene horrifying. He’d known a man like
this, he thought, a man who lived inside a delusion of fatherhood,
trapped in a cruel mistake about the nature of fatherly love. He knew
a child like this one, too, he thought, running toward the man who
stood in the role of father, but that role was a lie, a lie. There was no
father. This was no happy home. The child was not itself. Nothing was
as it seemed.
Yes, Bombay flooded back, and Solanka was living in it once again,
or at least in the only part of the city that truly had a hold on him, the
little patch of the past from which whole infernos could be conjured
forth, his damn Yoknapatawpha, his accursed Malgudi, which had
shaped his destiny and whose memory he had suppressed for over half
a lifetime. Methwold’s Estate: it was more than enough for his needs.
And, in particular, an apartment in a block called Noor Ville, in which
for a long time he had been raised as a girl.
At first he couldn’t look his story in the eye, could only come at it
sideways, by talking about the bougainvillaea creeper climbing over
the veranda like an Arcimboldo burglar, or like your stepfather at
your bedside in the night. Or else he described the crows that came
cawing like portents to his windowsill, and his conviction that he
would have been able to understand their warnings if only he weren’t
so unintelligent, if only he could only have concentrated a little
harder, and then he could have run away from home before anything
happened, so it was his own fault, his own stupid fault for failing to

do the simplest thing, namely to understand the language of birds. Or,
he spoke about his best friend, Chandra Venkataraghavan, whose
father left home when he was ten. Malik sat in Chandra’s room and
interrogated the distraught boy. Tell me how it hurts, Malik begged
Chandra. I need to know. That’s how it should also hurt for me.
Malik’s own father had disappeared when he was less than a year old;
his pretty young mother, Mallika, had burned all the photographs and
remarried within the year, gratefully taking her second husband’s
name and giving it to Malik as well, cheating Malik of history as well
as feeling. His father had gone and he didn’t even know his name,
which was also his own. If it had been up to his mother, Malik might
never have known of his father’s existence, but his stepfather told him
the moment he was old enough to understand. His stepfather, who
needed to excuse himself from the accusation of incest. From that if
nothing else.
What had his father done for a living? Malik was never informed.
Was he fat or thin, tall or short? Was his hair wavy or straight? All he
could do was look in the mirror. The mystery of his father’s looks
would be solved as he grew, and the face in the glass answered his
questions. “We are Solankas now,” his mother rebuked him. “It
doesn’t matter about that person who never existed and who certainly
doesn’t exist now. Here is your true father, who puts food on your
plate and clothes on your back. Kiss his feet and do his will.”
Dr. Solanka was the second husband, a consultant at Breach Candy
Hospital and a gifted composer of music in his spare time, and he was
indeed a generous provider. However, as Malik discovered, his
stepfather required more than just his feet to be kissed. When Malik
was six years old, Mrs. Mallika Solanka—who had never conceived
again, as if her absconding first husband had taken the secret of
fertility away with him—was declared incapable of further
childbearing and the boy’s torment began. Bring clothes and let his hair
grow long and he will be our daughter as well as our son. No but, husband,
how can it be, I mean, is that okay? Sure! Why not? In privacy of home all
things decreed by paterfamilias are sanctioned by God. Oh, my weak
mother, you brought me ribbons and frocks. And when the bastard
told you that your frail constitution, all wheezes and colds, would
benefit from daily exercise, when he sent you away for long walks at
the Hanging Gardens or Mahalaxmi Racecourse, did you not think to
ask why he did not walk by your side; why, dismissing the ayah, he

insisted on caring for his little “girl” alone? Oh, my poor dead mother
who betrayed her only child. After a whole year of this, Malik had
finally screwed up enough courage to ask the unaskable. Mummy, why
does Doctor Sahib push me down? What push you down, how push you
down, what nonsense is this? Mummy, when he stands there and puts his
hand on my head and pushes me down and makes me kneel. When,
Mummy, he loosens hispajama, when, Mummy, when he lets it fall. She
had hit him then, hard and repeatedly. Never tell me your evil lies again
or I will beat you till you are deaf and dumb. For some reason you have a
down on this man who is the only father you have ever known. For some
reason you don’t want your mother to be happy, so you tell these lies, don’t
think I don’t know you, the wickedness in your heart; how do you think it
feels when all the mothers say, your Malik, darling, such imagination, ask
him a question and who knows what he’ll come out with? Oh, I know what
it means: it means you are telling whoppers all over town, and I have an
evil liar for a child.
After that he was deaf and dumb. After that when the pushes came
on the top of his beribboned head he thudded obediently to his knees,
closed his eyes, and opened his mouth. But long months later things
did change. One day Dr. Solanka was visited by Chandra’s father, Mr.
Balasubramanyam Venkataraghavan the important banker, and they
remained closeted together for more than an hour. Voices were raised,
then swiftly lowered. Mallika was summoned, then swiftly dismissed.
Malik hung back at the far end of a corridor, wide-eyed, speechless,
clinging to a doll. Finally, Mr. Venkat left, looking like thunder,
pausing only to pick up and hug Malik (who was dressed for Venkat’s
visit in a white shirt and shorts), and to mutter, with high color
burning in his face, “Don’t worry, my boy. Quoth the raven:
nevermore.” That same afternoon, all the dresses and bows were taken
away to be burned; but Malik insisted on being allowed to keep his
dolls. Dr. Solanka never laid a finger on him again. Whatever threats
Mr. Venkat had made had had their effect. (When Balasubramanyam
Venkataraghavan left home to become a sanyasi, ten-year-old Malik
Solanka had greatly feared that his stepfather might revert to the old
routine. But it seemed Dr. Solanka had learned his lesson. Malik
Solanka, however, never spoke to his stepfather again.)
From that day on Malik’s mother was different, too, interminably
apologizing to her young son and weeping without restraint. He could
barely speak to her without provoking an awful howl of guilty grief.

This alienated Malik. He needed a mother, not a waterworks utility
like the one on the Monopoly board. “Please, Ammi,” he scolded her
when she had embarked on one of her frequent hug-and-sob fests. “If I
can control myself, so can you.” Stung, she let him go, and after that
did her weeping privately, muffled by pillows. So life resumed its air
of surface normality, Dr. Solanka going about his business, Mallika
running the household, and Malik locking his thoughts away,
confiding only in whispers, only in the hours of darkness, to the dolls
who crowded around him in bed, like guardian angels, like blood kin:
the only family he could bring himself to trust.
“The rest doesn’t matter,” he said, the confession over. “The rest is
ordinary—getting on with it, growing up, getting away from them,
having my life.” A huge burden had fallen from him. “I don’t have to
carry them around anymore,” he added, full of wonder. Neela put her
arms around him and moved in even closer. “Now it’s I who have
imprisoned you,” she said. “I’m the one asking you to go here, do that.
But this time it’s what we both want. In this prison, you’re finally
free.” He relaxed against her, even though he knew there was one last
gate he had not unlocked: the gate of full disclosure, of absolute,
brutal truth, behind which lay the strange thing that had happened
between Mila Milo and himself. But that, he persuaded himself
catastrophically, was for another day.
Everywhere on earth—in Britain, in India, in distant Lilliput—people
were obsessed by the subject of success in America. Neela was a
celebrity back home simply because she had gotten herself a good job
—“made it big”—in the American media. In India, great pride was
taken in the achievements of U.S.-based Indians in music, publishing
(though not writing), Silicon Valley, and Hollywood. British levels of
hysteria were even higher. British journalist gets work in U.S.A.!
Incredible! British actor to play second lead in American movie! Wow,
what a superstar! Cross-dressing British comic wins two Emmys!
Amazing—we always knew British transvestism was best! American
success had become the only real validation of one’s worth. Ah,
genuflection, Malik Solanka thought. Nobody knew how to argue with
money these days, and all the money was here in the Promised Land.
Such reflections had become germane because in his middle fifties
he was experiencing the superlative force of a real American hit, a

force that blew open all the doors of the city, unlocked its secrets, and
invited you to feast until you burst. The Galileo launch, an
unprecedented interdisciplinary business enterprise, had gone
intergalactic from day one. It turned out to be that happy accident: a
necessary myth. T-shirts covered some of the finest
LET THE FITTEST SURVIVE
chests in the city, becoming a triumphalist slogan for the gym
generation that acquired mass public currency overnight. It was
proudly worn, too, over some of the flabbiest bellies around, as proof
of the wearers’ sense of irony and fun. Demand for the Playstation
video game accelerated past all predictions, leaving even Lara Croft
floundering in its wake. At the height of the Star Wars phenomenon,
spin-off merchandising had accounted for a quarter of the toy
industry’s worldwide turnover; since those days, only the Little Brain
phenomenon had come close. Now the saga of Galileo-1 was setting
new records, and this time the global mania was being driven not by
films or television but by website. The new communications medium
was finally paying off. After a summer of skepticism about the
potential of many massively unprofitable Internet companies, here at
last was the prophesied brave new world. Professor Solanka’s
surprisingly smooth beast, its hour come around at last, was slouching
toward Bethlehem to be born. (There were rough edges, though: in
the early days the site often crashed under the sheer weight of hits,
which seemed to grow faster than the webspyders’ ability to increase
access by replication and mirroring, the spinning of new threads of
the shining web.)
Once again, Solanka’s fictional characters began to burst out of
their cages and take to the streets. From around the world came news
of their images, grown gigantic, standing many stories high on city
walls. They made celebrity public appearances, singing the national
anthem at ball games, publishing cookbooks, guest-hosting the
Letterman show. The leading young actresses of the day vied publicly
for the coveted leading role of Zameen of Rijk and her double, the
cyborg Goddess of Victory. And this time Solanka felt none of the old
Little Brain frustration, because, as Mila Milo had promised, it really
was his show. He marveled at his own excitement. Creative and
corporate meetings filled his days. The e-mail standoff with the
webspyders was over. Regular “face time” had become essential. The
continuing, possibly even growing, anger of sexually spurned, father-
fixated Mila was the single fly in this rich, even Croesus-worthy,

ointment. Mila and Eddie arrived stone-faced at the crucial meetings
and left without offering Solanka a friendly word. However, her hair
and eyes spoke volumes. They changed color frequently, burned like a
flame one day and glowered blackly the next. Often the contact lenses
clashed violently with the hair, suggesting that Mila was in an
exceptionally bad mood on that particular day.
Solanka had no time to deal with the Mila problem. The Galileo
project’s ground-floor partners were bursting with ideas about
diversification: a restaurant chain! A theme park! A giant Las Vegas
hotel, entertainment center and casino in the shape of the two islands
of Baburia, to be set in an artificially created “ocean” at the desert’s
heart! The number of businesses hammering on the door, pleading to
be let in, was almost as hard to set down as the full decimal
expression of π. The webspyders created and received new proposals
for the future of the property almost every day, and Malik Solanka
lost himself in the ecstasy, the furia, of the work.
The intervention of the living dolls from the imaginary planet
Galileo-1 in the public affairs of actually existing Earth had not,
however, been foreseen. It was Neela who brought Solanka the news.
She arrived at West Seventieth Street in a state of high excitement.
Her eyes shone as she spoke. There had been a countercoup in
Lilliput. It had begun as a burglary: masked men raided Mildendo’s
biggest toy store and made off with its entire, just-imported supply of
Kronosian Cyborg masks and costumes. Interestingly—given the name
of Neela’s shiny-chested flag-bearing pal—no Baburian outfits were
taken. The FRM radicals, the revolutionary Indo-Lilly “Fremen” who
had orchestrated the raid, as was afterward revealed, identified
strongly with the Puppet Kings, whose inalienable right to being
treated as equals—as fully moral and sentient beings—was denied by
Mogol the Baburian, their deadly foe, of whom Skyresh Bolgolam was
accused of being an avatar.
So far, the news sounded merely quaint, an exotic, unimportant
aberration in the faraway, and therefore easily dismissed, South
Pacific. But what followed was not so readily ignored. Thousands of
well-disciplined “Filbistani” revolutionaries had made coordinated
armed assaults on Lilliput-Blefuscu’s key installations, taking the very
largely ceremonial Elbee army by surprise, and engaging the
Bolgolamites occupying the Parliament, the radio and TV stations, the
telephone company, and the offices of the Lillicon Internet server, as

well as the aerodrome and seaport, in fierce and prolonged fighting.
The foot soldiers wore the usual hats, shades and kerchiefs to hide
their faces, but some officers were more grandly attired. The cyborgs
of Akasz Kronos led the way in what, Malik Solanka realized, was no
less than a third “revolt of the living dolls.” Many “Dollmakers” and
“Zameens” were seen, confidently directing operations. “Let the fittest
survive!” the Fremen were heard to shout as they charged the
Bolgolamite positions. At the end of this bloody day, the FRM had
gained the victory, but the price was high: hundreds dead, hundreds
more seriously injured or classified as walking wounded. The medical
facilities of Lilliput-Blefuscu were having great difficulty in caring for
the casualties with the urgency that their injuries made necessary.
Some of the wounded died while waiting to be treated. The noise of
pain and fear filled the little nation’s hospital corridors throughout the
night.
As Lilliput-Blefuscu resumed contact with the outside world, it
emerged that both President Golbasto Gue and the leader of the
original and now failed coup, Skyresh Bolgolam, had been taken alive.
The leader of the FRM uprising, who was dressed from head to foot in
a Kronos/Dollmaker costume and who referred to himself only as
Commander Akasz, went briefly on LBTV to announce his operation’s
success, to praise the martyrs, and to announce, with clenched fist,
“The fittest have survived!” Then he announced his demands: the
restitution of the ditched Golbasto constitution and the trial of the
Bolgolam gang for high treason, which, under Elbee law, was
punishable by death, although no executions had occurred in living
memory and none would be expected in this case. He further stated
that he, “Commander Akasz of the Fremen,” demanded the right to be
consulted about Lilliput-Blefuscu’s next government and had his own
slate of candidates for inclusion in that administration. He specified
no post for himself, a piece of false modesty that fooled nobody. Bal
Thackeray in Bombay and Jörg Haider in Austria had proved that a
man didn’t have to hold public office to run the show. A genuine
strongman had emerged. Until his demands were met, “Commander
Akasz” concluded, he would “invite the respected president and the
traitor Bolgolam to remain in the Parliament building as his personal
guests.”
Solanka was troubled; the old problem of ends and means again.
“Commander Akasz” didn’t sound to him like the servant of a just

cause, and while, Solanka granted, Mandela and Gandhi weren’t the
only models for revolutionaries to consider, bully-boy tactics needed
always to be called by their right name. Neela, though, was elated.
“The incredible thing is that it’s so unlike Indo-Lillys to be like this:
militarized, disciplined, taking action in their own defense instead of
just weeping and wringing their hands. What a miracle he’s worked,
don’t you think?” She was leaving for Mildendo in the morning, she
said. “Be happy for me. This coup makes my film really sexy. The
phone’s been ringing off the hook all day.” Malik Solanka, standing at
one of the high peaks of his life, feeling, like Gulliver or Alice, like a
giant among pygmies, invincible, invulnerable, suddenly felt tiny
invisible fingers tugging at his garments, as if a horde of little goblins
were trying to drag him down to Hell. “It is him, you know,” Neela
added. “‘Commander Akasz,’ I mean. I’ve seen the tape and there’s no
doubt. That body: I’d know it again anywhere. He really is quite a
guy.”
The speed of contemporary life, thought Malik Solanka, outstripped
the heart’s ability to respond. Jack’s death, Neela’s love, the defeat of
fury, Asmaan’s elephant, Eleanor’s grief, Mila’s hurt, the
contemptuous triumphalism of the plumber Schlink, summer’s end,
the Bolgolam coup in Lilliput-Blefuscu, Solanka’s own jealousy of the
FRM radical Babur, his quarrel with Neela, the shrieks in the night,
the telling of his back-story, the high-speed development of the
Galileo-Puppet Kings project and its gigantic success, the countercoup
of “Commander Akasz,” Neela’s imminent departure: such an
acceleration of the temporal flow was almost comically overpowering.
Neela herself felt none of this; a creature of speed and motion, a child
of her hopped-up age, she accepted the current rate of change as
normal. “You sound so old when you talk that way,” she chided him.
“Stop it and come here at once.” Their farewell lovemaking was
unhurriedly, deliriously prolonged. No problems there of excessive
postmodern rapidity. There were evidently still a few areas in which
slowness was valued by the young.
He slipped into dreamless sleep but awoke, two hours later, into a
nightmare. Neela was still there—she was often happy to sleep over at
Solanka’s place, although she continued to dislike waking up beside
him in her own bed, a double standard that he’d accepted without
demur—but there was a stranger in the room, there actually was a

large, no, a very large man standing by Solanka’s side of the bed,
holding up—oh, awful mirror of Solanka’s own misdeed!—an ugly-
looking knife. Coming fully awake at once, Solanka sat bolt upright in
bed. The intruder greeted him, vaguely waving the blade in his
direction. “Professor,” Eddie Ford said, not without courtesy. “Glad
you could be with us tonight.”
Once before, some years ago in London, Solanka had had a knife
pulled on him by a flash young black kid, who leapt out of a
convertible and insisted on using a phone booth that Solanka was just
entering. “It’s a woman, man,” he reasoned. “It’s urgent, right?” When
Solanka said that his own call was important, too, the youth freaked
out. “I’ll cut you, you bastard, don’t think I won’t. I don’t give a fuck,
me.” Solanka had worked hard on his body language. The thing was
not to act too scared or too confident. A fine line had to be walked.
He also fought to keep his voice level. “That would be bad for me,”
he’d said, “but also bad for you.” Then came a staring match, which
Solanka was not stupid enough to win. “Okay, fuck you, you cunt,
okay?” the knife man said, and went in to make his call. “Hey, baby,
forget him, baby, let me show you what that sad sack could never
know.” He began crooning into the telephone receiver lines that
Solanka recognized as Bruce Springsteen’s. “Tell me now, baby, is your
daddy home, did he go and leave you all alone, uh-huh, I got a bad desire;
oh, oh, oh, I’m on fire.” Solanka walked quickly away, rounded a
corner, and fell back, trembling, against a wall.
So here it was again, but this time it was personal, and body
language and voice skills might not suffice. This time there was a
woman sleeping beside him in his bed. Eddie Ford had begun to walk
slowly back and forth at the foot of the bed. “I know what’s in your
head, man,” he said. “Big fuckin’ movie buff like you. Lincoln Plaza,
et cetera, sure, sure. Knife in the Dark, you got it right off, second Pink
Panther movie, featurin’ the lovely Elke Sommer, am I right.” The film
had been called A Shot in the Dark, but Solanka decided not to correct
Eddie for the moment. “Fuckin’ knife movies,” Eddie mused. “Mila
liked Bruno Ganz in Knife in the Head, but for me it has to be the old
classic, Polanski’s first feature, Knife in the Water. A man starts playin’
with a knife to impress his wife. She fancied that fuckin’ blond
hitchhiker. That was a bad fuckin’ mistake, lady. That was grievous.”
Neela was stirring, crying softly in her sleep, as she so often did.
“Shh,” Solanka caressed her back. “It’s okay. Shh.” Eddie nodded

sagely. “I expect she’ll be joinin’ us soon, man. I fuckin’ eagerly
anticipate it.” Then he resumed his ruminations. “We often rank
movies, Mila an’ me. Scary, scarier, scariest, like that. For her, it’s The
Exorcist, man, soon to be re-released with previously unseen material,
uh-huh, but I retort, no. You have to go all the way back to the
classical period to my man Roman Polanski. Rosemary’s Baby, man.
That’s the fuckin’ baby for me. Now, babies are somethin’ you’d know
about, am I right, Professor? Babies sittin’ for instance on your fuckin’
lap day after fuckin’ day. You didn’t answer me, Professor. Allow me
to rephrase. You’ve been foolin’ with what wasn’t yours to touch, and
the way I see it the fuckin’ wrongdoer shall be punished. Vengeance is
mine, saith the Lord. Vengeance is Eddie’s, ain’t that so, Professor,
wouldn’t you concede that as we face each other here, that is totally
the fuckin’ reality of the case? As we face each other here, you
defenseless with your lady there and me with this enormous
murderin’ motherfucker of a blade in my hand waiting to cut off your
balls, wouldn’t you fuckin’ accept that the Day of Judgment is fuckin’
nigh?”
The movies were infantilizing their audience, Solanka thought, or
perhaps the easily infantilizable were drawn to movies of a certain
simplified kind. Perhaps daily life, its rush, its overloadedness, just
numbed and anesthetized people and they went into the movies’
simpler worlds to remember how to feel. As a result, in the minds of
many adults, the experience on offer in the movie theaters now felt
more real than what was available in the world outside. For Eddie, his
movie-hoodlum riffs possessed more authenticity than any more
“natural” pattern of speech, even of threatening speech, at his
disposal. In his mind’s eye he was Samuel L. Jackson, about to waste
some punk. He was a man in a black suit, a man named after a color,
slicing up a trussed-up victim to the tune of “Stuck in the Middle with
You.” None of which meant that a knife was not a knife. Pain was still
pain, death still came as the end, and there was unquestionably a
crazy young man waving a knife at them in the dark. Neela was
awake now, sitting up beside Solanka, pulling the sheet around her
nakedness, just the way people did in the movies. “You know him?”
she whispered. Eddie laughed. “Oh sure, pretty lady,” he cried. “We
have time for a little Q-and-A. The professor and me, we’re
colleagues.”
“Eddie,” a disconcertingly scarlet-eyeballed, blue-haired Mila said

reprovingly from the open doorway. “You stole my keys. He stole my
keys,” she said, turning to Solanka in the bed. “Sorry about that. He
has, like, strong feelings. I love that in a man. He in particular
entertains strong feelings about you. Understandably enough. But the
knife? Wrong, Eddie.” She turned back to her fiancé. “W-r-o-n-g. How
are we supposed to get married if you end up behind bars?” Eddie
looked crestfallen, and like a scolded schoolboy stood shifting his
weight from foot to foot, diminishing in an instant from mad-dog
killer to yelping pet. “Wait outside,” she ordered him, and he
shambled dumbly off. “He’ll wait outside,” she said to Solanka,
completely ignoring the other woman in the room. “We have to talk.”
The other woman, however, was not accustomed to being erased
from any scene of which she was a part. “What does she mean he stole
her keys?” Neela demanded. “Why did she have your keys? What did
he mean you’re colleagues? What does she mean, ‘understandably
enough’? Why does she have to talk?”
She has to talk, Professor Solanka answered silently, because she
thinks I think she fucked her father, whereas in fact I know her father
fucked her, this being an area of inquiry in which I have done much
fieldwork of my own. He fucked her every day like a goat—like a man
—and then he left her. And because she loved him as well as loathing
him, she has looked ever since for cover versions, imitations of life.
She is an expert in the ways of her age, this age of simulacra and
counterfeits, in which you can find any pleasure known to woman or
man rendered synthetic, made safe from disease or guilt—a lo-cal, lo-
fi, brilliantly false version of the awkward world of real blood and
guts. Phony experience that feels so good that you actually prefer it to
the real thing. That was me: her fake.
It was seventeen minutes past three in the morning. Mila, in a
trenchcoat and boots, sat down on the edge of the bed. Malik Solanka
groaned. Disaster always arrived when your defenses were at their
lowest: blindsiding you, like love. “Tell her,” Mila said, at last
allowing Neela to exist. “Explain why you gave me the keys to your
little kingdom here. Explain about the cushion on your lap.” Mila had
prepared carefully for this confrontation. She unbelted the trenchcoat
and slipped it off, revealing, of all things, an absurdly short baby-doll
nightie. This was an example of the use of clothing as a lethal
weapon: wounded Mila was undressed to kill. “Go on, Papi,” she
urged. “Tell her about us. Tell her about Mila in the afternoon.”

“Please do,” Eleanor Masters Solanka added grimly, switching on
the light as she came in, accompanied by that heavyset, grizzled,
bespectacled, blinking Buddhist owl, his ex-buddy Morgen Franz. “I’m
sure all of us would be fascinated to hear.” Oh fine, Malik thought.
Seems there’s an open-door policy around here. Please, come on in,
everybody, don’t mind me, make yourselves at home. Eleanor’s
flowing chestnut hair was longer than ever; she wore a long black
high-necked cashmere coat and her eyes blazed. She looked amazing
for three , Malik noted. He also observed that Morgen Franz was
A.M.
holding her hand; and that Neela was climbing out of his bed and
coolly getting dressed. Her eyes, too, were on fire, and Mila’s, of
course, were already bright red. Solanka closed his own eyes and lay
back, putting a pillow over his face on account of the sudden glare in
the room.
Eleanor and Morgen had left Asmaan with his grandmother and
flown in to JFK that afternoon. They had checked into a midtown
hotel, intending to contact Solanka in the morning to acquaint him
with the changed circumstances of their lives. (This, at least, Solanka
had intuited in advance: or, rather, Asmaan had filled him in.)
“Anyway, I couldn’t sleep,” Eleanor said to the pillow. “So I just
thought, fuck it, I’d come and wake you up. I see, however, that you
are already entertaining; which makes it a good deal easier to say
what I came to say.” The softness was gone from her voice. Her fists
were clenched, white-knuckled. She was fighting hard to keep her
voice under control. Any moment now she would open her mouth
and, instead of words, unleash a Fury’s deafening, world-destroying
shriek.
He should have known, Solanka thought, pulling the pillow down
more firmly over his face. What chance did mortal man have against
the devious malice of the gods? Here they were, the three Furies, the
“good-tempered ones” themselves, in full possession of the physical
bodies of the women to whom his life was most profoundly joined.
Their external forms were all too familiar, but the fire pouring out of
these metamorphosed creatures’ eyes proved that they were no longer
the women he had known but rather vessels for the descent into the
Upper West Side of the malevolent Divine…. “Oh, for goodness’ sake
get out of bed,” Neela Mahendra snapped. “Get up right now, so that
we can knock you down.”
Professor Malik Solanka rose naked to his feet under the flaming

eyes of the women he had loved. The fury that had once possessed
him was now theirs; and Morgen Franz was caught up in its force
field, Morgen, who had so little to be proud of in his own behavior,
except that he too had learned what it was to be the servant of love.
Morgen, to whom Eleanor had granted the gift of her wounded self
and the stewardship of her son. Crackling with the energy flowing
into him from the Furies, he moved toward the naked man like a
puppet on lightning strings and swung his nonviolent arm. Solanka
dropped, like a tear.

17
Three weeks later he stepped out of a long-haul Airbus at Blefuscu
International Aerodrome, into a hot but balmily breezy Southern
Hemisphere spring day. A complex bouquet of odors filled his nostrils
—hibiscus, oleander, jacaranda, perspiration, excrement, motor oil.
Now the great folly of his actions hit him, even harder than the blow
from his wife’s pacifist lover, the haymaker, the pacifisticuff that had
put him out for the count on his own bedroom floor. What did he
think he was doing, a respectable and now extremely wealthy man of
fifty-five, chasing halfway around the world after a woman who had
literally left him flat? Worse still, why did it agitate him so that the
revolutionaries here, Filbistanis, FRM, Fremen—why couldn’t they
make up their minds what they were called?—had taken on the
identities of his fictions, like firefighters or workers at nuclear power
plants donning protective clothing against the dangers of their work?
Puppet King costumes may have become a feature of what was going
on in these parts, but that didn’t make any of it his responsibility.
“You are not a party to these events,” Professor Solanka rebuked
himself for the umpteenth time, and himself replied, “Oh yeah? Then
why is that hairless flag-waver Babur hanging out with my girl,
wearing a molded-latex mask of my face?”
The mask of “Zameen of Rijk” had been modeled after Neela
Mahendra, that was obvious, but in the case of “Akasz Kronos,” it
seemed to Solanka, the opposite was true: as time passed, he had
come to resemble his creation more and more. The long silver hair,
the eyes made mad by loss. (He’d always had the mouth.) A strange
piece of mask theater was being played out on this remote island
stage, and Professor Malik Solanka had been unable to shake off the
notion that the action intimately concerned him, that the great or
perhaps trivial matter of his perhaps significant, more probably rather

pitiful life—but, still, his life!—was arriving, here in the South Pacific,
at its final act. This was not a reasonable idea, but he had been, ever
since the slightly tragic but mostly farcical events of the Night of the
Furies, in an unreasonable frame of mind, having regained
consciousness with a broken molar giving him considerable trouble,
and a broken heart and wounded life that gave him more grief even
than the pounding tooth. In the dentist’s chair, he tried to shut out the
tape of early Lennon-McCartney tunes and the pleasant prattle of the
New Zealander quarryman delving deep inside his jaw—it came back
to him from somewhere that the Beatles had begun life as the
Quarrymen. He concentrated on Neela: what she might be thinking,
how to get her back. She had demonstrated that in affairs of the heart
she was very like the man that women had always accused him of
being. She was there until she wasn’t. When she loved you, she loved
one hundred percent, with no holds barred; but plainly she was also
an ax-murderer, capable at any moment of severing the head of a
suddenly rejected love. Confronted by his past—a past that in his
opinion had no bearing whatsoever on his love for her—she had
reached her snapping point, pulled on her clothes, exited, and almost
at once embarked on a twenty-four-hour plane journey across the
globe without a solicitous phone call about his jaw, let alone a word
of loving farewell or even a guarded promise to try and work things
out later, when history let up and gave her a bit of time. But she was
also a woman familiar with being pursued. She might even be a little
addicted to it. At any rate—Solanka persuaded himself while the New
Zealander’s babbling road-drill hammered at his jaw—he owed it to
himself, having found so remarkable a woman, not to lose her by
default.
To fly east was to hurtle toward the future—the jet-propelled hours
rushed by too fast, the next day arrived on wings—but it felt like a
return to the past. He traveled forward toward the unknown and
toward Neela, but for the first half of the journey the past tugged at
his heart. When he saw Bombay below him, he pulled on a sleep mask
and closed his eyes. The plane stopped in the city of his birth for a full
hour, but he refused a transit card and stayed on board. Even in his
seat, however, he was not safe from feeling. The sleep mask was no
use. Cleaners came on board, chattering and clattering, a platoon of
women in shabby purples and pinks, and India arrived with them, like
a disease: the erectness of their bearing, the loud nasal intonation of

their speech, their dusters, their hard workers’ eyes, the remembered
perfume of half-forgotten unguents and spices—coconut oil,
fenugreek, kalonji—that lingered on their skin. He felt giddy,
asphyxiated, as if suffering from motion discomfort, though he was
never airsick and the plane was, after all, on the ground, refueling,
with all its engines shut down. After takeoff, as they headed east
across the Deccan, he began to breathe again. When there was water
down below again, he began, a little, to relax. Neela had wanted to go
to India with him, was excited by the idea of discovering the land of
her forefathers with the man of her choice. He had been the man of
her choice, he must hold on to that. “I hope,” she had told him, with
great seriousness, “that you are the last man with whom I will ever
sleep.” The power of such promises is great, and under their
enchantment he had even allowed himself to dream of return, had
permitted himself to believe that the past could be—had been—
stripped of its power, so that in the future all things could be
achieved. But now Neela had vanished like a conjurer’s assistant, and
his strength had gone with her. Without her, he was convinced, he
would never walk the Indian streets again.
The aerodrome, as its outdated name forewarned, was what a
tourist determined to put a brave face on catastrophe would call
“olde-worlde” or “quaint.” In fact it was a pigsty, decrepit,
malodorous, with sweating walls and two-inch roaches crunching like
nutshells underfoot. It should have been torn down years ago, and had
indeed been scheduled for demolition—it was after all on the wrong
island, and the helicopters that linked it to the capital, Mildendo,
looked worryingly down-at-the-heels—but the new airport, GGI
(Golbasto Gue Intercontinental), had beaten the old place to it by
falling down completely a month after it was finished, owing to the
local Indo-Lilly contractors’ overimaginative, if financially beneficial,
rethink of the correct relationship, in the mixing of concrete, between
water and cement.
Such creative rethinking turned out to be a feature of life in Lilliput-
Blefuscu. Professor Solanka walked into the Blefuscu Aerodrome’s
customs hall and at once heads began to turn, for reasons that, flight-
exhausted and stupid with heartache though he was, he had
anticipated and immediately understood. An Indo-Lilly customs officer
in dazzling whites bore down on him, staring hard. “Not possible. Not
possible. No notification was received. You are who? Your goodname,

please?” he said suspiciously, holding out his hand for Solanka’s
passport. “As I thought,” the officer finally said. “You are not.” This
was gnomic, to say the least, but Solanka merely inclined his head in
a gesture of mild assent. “It is unseemly,” the officer added
mysteriously, “to set out to mislead the public of a country in which
you are only a guest, dependent on our famous tolerance and
goodwill.” He made a peremptory gesture to Solanka, who duly
opened his cases. The customs officer gazed vengefully upon their
contents: the neatly packed fourteen pairs each of socks and
underpants, fourteen handkerchiefs, three pairs of shoes, seven pairs
of pants, seven shirts, seven bush-shirts, seven polo shirts, three ties,
three folded and tissued linen suits, and one raincoat, just in case.
After a judicious pause, he smiled broadly, revealing a set of perfect
teeth that filled Solanka with envy. “Heavy duty payable,” the officer
beamed. “So many dutiable items are there.” Solanka frowned. “It’s
just my clothes. Surely you don’t make people pay to bring in what
they need to cover their nakedness.” The customs officer stopped
smiling, and frowned far more ferociously than Solanka. “Avoid
obscene utterance, please, Mr. Trickster,” he instructed. “Here is much
that is not clothe. Video camera is here, also wristwatches, cameras,
jewelry. Heavy duty payable. If you wish to lodge protest, that is of
course your democratic privilege. This is Free Indian Lilliput-Blefuscu:
Filbistan! Naturally, if protest is desired, you will be welcome to take
a seat in interview room and discuss all points with my boss. He will
be free very soon. Twenty-four, thirty-six hours.” Solanka got the
point. “How much?” he asked, and paid up. In the local sprugs it
sounded like a lot, but it translated into American as eighteen dollars
and fifty cents. With a great flourish, the customs officer made a large
chalk X on Solanka’s bags. “You come at great historical moment,” he
told Solanka portentously. “Indian people of Lilliput-Blefuscu have
finally standed up for our right. Our culture is ancient and superior
and will henceforth prevail. Let the fittest survive, isn’t it. For one
hundred years good-for-nothing Elbee cannibals drank grog—kava,
glimigrim, flunec, Jack Daniel’s and Coke, every kind of godless booze
—and made us eat their shit. Now they can eat ours instead. Please:
enjoy your stay.”
In the helicopter shuttle to Mildendo on the island of Lilliput, the
other passengers stared at Professor Solanka as incredulously as the
customs officer had. He decided to ignore their behavior and turned

his attention instead to the countryside below. As they flew over the
sugarcane farms of Blefuscu, he noted the high piles of black igneous
boulders near the center of each field. Once indentured Indian
laborers, identified only by numbers, had broken their backs to clear
this land, building these rock piles under the stony supervision of
Australian Coolumbers and storing in their hearts the deep resentment
born of their sweat and the cancellation of their names. The rocks
were icons of accumulated volcanic wrath, prophecies from the past
of the eruption of Indo-Lilly fury, whose effects were everywhere to
be seen. The rickety LB Air helicopter made its landing, to Solanka’s
immense relief, on the still-intact apron of the ruined Golbasto Gue
Intercontinental Airport, and the first thing he saw was a giant
cardboard representation of “Commander Akasz,” that is to say of the
FRM leader Babur in his Akasz Kronos mask and cloak. Contemplating
this image, Solanka wondered with a pounding heart whether, in
making his transglobal journey, he had acted as a lovelorn fool and
political naif. For the dominant image in Lilliput-Blefuscu—a country
close to civil war, in which the president himself was still being held
hostage, and a high-tension state of siege existed, and unpredictable
developments could occur at any moment—was, as he had known it
must be, a close likeness of himself. The face looking down at him
from the top of the fifty-foot cutout—that face framed in long silver
hair, with its wild eyes and dark-lipped Cupid’s bow mouth, was his
very own.
He was expected. News of the Commander’s lookalike had raced
ahead of the helicopter shuttle. Here in the Theater of Masks the
original, the man with no mask, was perceived as the mask’s imitator:
the creation was real while the creator was the counterfeit! It was as
though he were present at the death of God and the god who had died
was himself. Masked men and women carrying automatic weapons
were waiting for him outside the shuttle’s door. He accompanied them
without protest.
He was led to a chairless “holding room,” whose single piece of
furniture was a battered wooden table, watched by the unflinching
eyes of lizards, with thirsty flies buzzing at the moisture in the corners
of his eyes. His passport, watch, and airline ticket were taken from
him by a woman whose face was concealed behind a mask bearing the
face of the woman he loved. Deafened by the strident martial music

that was incessantly being played throughout the airport at high
volume on a primitive sound system, he could still hear the elated
terror in the young voices of his guards—for guerrillas weighted down
with weapons were all around him—and he could also see evidence of
the situation’s extreme instability in the shifting eyes of the unmasked
civilians in the terminal building and in the jumpy bodies of the
masked combatants. All this brought vividly home to Solanka that he
had stepped a long way out of his element, leaving behind all the
signs and codes by which his life’s meaning and form had been
established. Here “Professor Malik Solanka” had no existence as a self,
as a man with a past and future and people who cared about his fate.
He was merely an inconvenient nobody with a face that everyone
knew, and unless he could rapidly parlay that startling physiognomy
into an advantage, his position would deteriorate, resulting, at the
very best, in his early deportation. The very worst was something he
refused to contemplate. The thought of being expelled without having
come close to Neela was upsetting enough. I’m naked again, Solanka
thought. Naked and stupid. Walking right into the approaching
knockout punch.
After an hour or more, an Australian Holden station wagon drove
up to the shed in which he had been detained and Solanka was
invited, not tenderly, but without undue roughness, to get in the back.
Guerrillas in combat fatigues pushed in on either side of him; two
more got into the baggage hold and sat facing the rear, their guns
sticking out of the raised back-window hatch. On the drive through
Mildendo, Malik Solanka had a strong sense of déjà vu, and it took
him a moment to work out that he was being reminded of India. Of,
to be specific, Chandni Chowk, Old Delhi’s troubled heart, where the
traders crowded together in this same hugger-mugger style, where the
shop fronts were as brightly colored and the interiors as crudely lit,
where the roadway was even more densely thronged with walking,
cycling, jostling, shouting life, where animals and human beings
fought for space, and where massed car horns performed the daily
unvarying symphony of the street. Solanka had not expected such
crowds. Easier to predict but unnerving nonetheless was the palpable
distrust between the communities, the muttering clumps of Elbee and
Indo-Lilly men eyeing each other unpleasantly, the sense of living in a
tinderbox and waiting for a flash. This was the paradox and the curse
of communal trouble: when it came, it was your friends and neighbors

who came to kill you, the very same people who had helped you, a
few days earlier, start your spluttering motor scooter, who had
accepted the sweetmeats you distributed when your daughter became
engaged to a decent, well-educated man. The shoe-shop manager next
to whose premises your tobacco store had operated for ten years or
more: this was the man who would put the boot in, who would lead
the men with torches to your door and fill the air with sweet Virginia
smoke.
There were no tourists to be seen. (The flight to Blefuscu had been
more than two thirds empty.) Few women were on the street, apart
from the surprisingly large number of female FRM cadres, and no
children. Many stores were closed and barricaded; others remained
warily open, and people—men—were still going about their daily
tasks. Guns, however, were everywhere to be seen, and in the
distance, from time to time, sporadic shooting could be heard. The
police force was collaborating with the FRM personnel to maintain a
measure of law and order; the Ruritanian joke of an army remained in
its barracks, although the leading generals were involved in the
complex negotiations taking place behind the scenes for long hours
every day. FRM negotiators were meeting with the ethnic Elbee
chiefs, as well as religious and business leaders. “Commander Akasz”
was at least trying to give the impression of a man looking for a
peaceful resolution to the crisis. But civil war bubbled just beneath
the surface. Skyresh Bolgolam may have been defeated and captured,
but the large proportion of Elbee youths who had backed the failed
Bolgolamite coup were licking their wounds and no doubt plotting
their next move. Meanwhile, the international community was
moving quickly toward declaring Lilliput-Blefuscu the world’s smallest
pariah state, suspending trade agreements and freezing aid programs.
In these moves Solanka had seen his opportunity.
Motorcycle outriders surrounded the station wagon, escorting it to
the heavily defended perimeter walls of the parliamentary compound.
The gates opened and the vehicle passed through, proceeding to a
service entrance at the rear of the central complex. The kitchen
entrance, thought Solanka with a wry private smile, was the true gate
of power. Many people, functionaries or supplicants, could enter the
great houses of power through their front doors. But to get into a
service elevator, watched by white-hatted chefs and sous-chefs, to be
borne slowly upward in an unornamented box with silent masked men

and women all around you: that really was important. To emerge into
an undistinguished bureaucratic corridor and be led through a series
of increasingly unpretentious rooms was to walk down the true
pathway to the center. Not bad for a dollmaker, he told himself.
You’re in. Let’s see if you get out with what you want. In fact, let’s see
if you manage to get out at all.
At the end of the sequence of interconnecting, blank backrooms
came a room with a single door. Inside were the now-familiar spartan
furnishings: a desk, two canvas chairs, a ceiling light, a filing cabinet,
a telephone. He was left alone to wait. He picked up the phone; there
was a dial tone, and a small label on the instrument told him to dial 9
for an outside line. As a precaution, he had researched and memorized
several numbers: that of a local newspaper, the American, British, and
Indian embassies, a legal practice. He tried dialing these, but each
time heard a woman’s recorded voice saying, in English, Hindi, and
Lilliputian, “That number cannot be dialed from this telephone.” He
tried dialing the emergency services. No luck. “That number cannot
be dialed.” What we have here, he told himself, is not a telephone at
all but only the outward appearance or mask of a telephone. Just as
this room is only wearing the costume of an office but is in fact a
prison cell. No doorknob on the inside of the door. The single
window: small and barred. He went over to the filing cabinet and
pulled at a drawer. Empty. Yes, this was a stage set, and he had been
cast in a play, but nobody had given him the script.
“Commander Akasz” swept in four hours later. By this time
Solanka’s remaining confidence had all but evaporated. “Akasz” was
accompanied by two young Fremen too lowly to be in costume, and
followed into the room by a Steadicam operator, a boom-carrying
sound recordist and—Solanka’s heart bounded with excitement—a
woman wearing camouflage fatigues and a “Zameen of Rijk” mask:
concealing her face behind an imitation of itself.
“That body,” Solanka greeted her, striving for lightness. “I’d know it
again anywhere.” This didn’t go down especially well. “What are you
here for?” Neela burst out, then disciplined herself. “Excuse me,
Commander. I apologize.” Babur, in the “Akasz Kronos” outfit, was no
longer the crestfallen, abashed young man Solanka remembered from
Washington Square. He spoke in a barking voice that did not expect
disagreements. The mask acts, Solanka remembered. “Commander
Akasz,” the great man-mountain, had become a big man in this very

small pond, and was acting the part. Not so big, Solanka noted, as to
be immune from the Neela effect. Babur walked with a long, sweeping
stride, but after every dozen steps or so, his foot somehow managed to
come down on the hem of his swirling cloak, forcing his neck to jerk
awkwardly back. He also managed to collide, within a minute of
entering Solanka’s cell, with the table and both the chairs. This, even
when her face was hidden by a mask! She never failed to exceed
Solanka’s expectations. He, however, had disappointed hers. Now he
must see if he could surprise her.
Babur had already acquired the royal we. “We are familiar with
you, naturally,” he said without preamble. “Who right now is not
cognizant of the creator of the Puppet Kings? No doubt you have good
reasons for presenting yourself,” he said, with a half turn of his body
toward Neela Mahendra. No fool, then, Solanka thought. No point
denying what he already knows to be true. “Our conundrum is, what
shall we do with you? Sister Zameen? Something to say?” Neela
shrugged. “Send him home,” she said in a dull, uninterested voice that
shook Solanka. “I’ve got no use for him.” Babur laughed. “The sister
says you are useless, Professor Sahib. Are you so? Jolly good! Shall we
throw you in the bin?”
Solanka launched into his prepared spiel. “My proposal,” he said,
“which I have come a long way to make, is this: allow me to be your
intermediary. Your connection with my project needs no comment
from me. We can give you a link to a mass global audience, to win
hearts and minds. This you urgently need to do. The tourist industry is
already as dead as your legendary Hurgo bird. If you lose your export
markets and the support of the major regional powers, this country
will be bankrupt within weeks, certainly within months. You need to
persuade people that your cause is just, that you are fighting for
democratic principles, not against them. For the repudiated Golbasto
constitution, I mean. You need to give that mask a human face. Let
Neela and me work on this with my New York people, on a
complimentary basis. Consider it pro bono work on a freedom
movement’s behalf.” This is how far he was prepared to go for love,
his unspoken thoughts said to Neela. Her cause was his. If she forgave
him, he would be the servant of all her desires.
“Commander Akasz” waved the idea away. “The situation has
developed,” he said. “Other parties—bad eggs, the lot of them!—have
been intransigent. As a result we also have hardened our stance.”

Solanka didn’t follow. “We have demanded total executive authority,”
he said. “No more nambying or pambying. What is needed in Filbistan
is for a real chap to take charge. Isn’t that so, sister?” Neela was silent.
“Sister?” repeated Babur, turning to face her and raising his voice; and
she, lowering her head, answered almost inaudibly, “Yes.” Babur
nodded. “A period of discipline,” he said. “If we say the moon is made
of cheese, then of what, sister, is it made?” “Cheese,” said Neela in the
same low voice. “And if we tell you the world is flat? What shape is
it?” “Flat, Commander.” “And if tomorrow we decree that the sun
goes round the earth?” “Then, Commander, the sun it will be that
goes around.” Babur nodded with satisfaction. “Jolly good! That is the
message for the world to grasp,” he said. “A leader has arisen in
Filbistan, and it is for everyone to follow, or suffer the needful
consequences. Oh, by the by, Professor, you have studied ideas at the
University of Cambridge in England, isn’t it. Therefore be so good as
to enlighten us on a vexed point: is it better to be loved or feared?”
Solanka did not answer. “Come, come, Professor,” Babur urged.
“Make your good effort! You can do better than that.” The FRM
cadres accompanying “Commander Akasz” began to fiddle
meaningfully with their Uzis. In an expressionless voice, Solanka
quoted Machiavelli. “‘Men are less hesitant about harming someone
who makes himself loved than one who makes himself feared.’” He
began to speak with greater animation, and looked directly at Neela
Mahendra. “‘Because love is held together by a chain of obligation
which, since men are a sorry lot, is broken on every occasion in which
their own self-interest is concerned; but fear is held together by a
dread of punishment which will never abandon you.’” Babur
brightened. “Good egg,” he cried, thumping Solanka on the back.
“You aren’t useless after all! So, so. We’ll think about your proposal.
Jolly good! Stay awhile. Be our guest. We already have the president
and Mr. Bolgolam in residence. You, too, will witness these first bright
hours of our beloved Filbistan, upon which the sun never sets. Sister,
be so kind as to confirm. How often does the sun go down?” And
Neela Mahendra, who had always carried herself like a queen, bowed
her head like a slave and said, “Commander, it never does.”
The cell—he had stopped thinking of it as a room—did not contain a
bed, and lacked even the most rudimentary toilet facilities.
Humiliation was the stock-in-trade of “Commander Akasz,” as his

treatment of Neela had amply demonstrated. Solanka perceived that
he was to be humiliated, too. Time passed; he lacked a watch by
which to measure it. The breeze faded and died. Night, the
ideologically incorrect, nonexistent night, grew humid, thickened and
stretched. He had been given a bowl of unidentifiable mush to eat and
a jug of suspect water. He tried to resist both, but hunger and thirst
were tyrants, and in the end he did eat and drink. After that he
wrestled with nature until the inevitable moment of defeat. When he
could no longer contain himself, he pissed and shat wretchedly in a
corner, taking off his shirt and wiping himself with it as best he could.
It was hard not to fall into solipsism, hard not to see these
degradations as a punishment for a clumsy, hurtful life. Lilliput-
Blefuscu had reinvented itself in his image. Its streets were his
biography, patrolled by figments of his imagination and altered
versions of people he had known: Dubdub and Perry Pincus were here
in their sci-fi versions, also mask-and-costume incarnations of Sara
Lear and Eleanor Masters, Jack Rhinehart and Sky Schuyler, and
Morgen Franz. There were even space-age Wislawas and Schlinks
walking the Mildendo streets, as well as Mila and Neela and himself.
The masks of his life circled him sternly, judging him. He closed his
eyes and the masks were still there, whirling. He bowed his head
before their verdict. He had wished to be a good man, to lead a good
man’s life, but the truth was he hadn’t been able to hack it. As Eleanor
had said, he had betrayed those whose only crime was to have loved
him. When he had attempted to retreat from his darker self, the self of
his dangerous fury, hoping to overcome his faults by a process of
renunciation, of giving up, he had merely fallen into new, more
grievous error. Seeking his redemption in creation, offering up an
imagined world, he had seen its denizens move out into the world and
grow monstrous; and the greatest monster of them all wore his own
guilty face. Yes, deranged Babur was a mirror of himself. Seeking to
right a grave injustice, to be a servant of the Good, “Commander
Akasz” had come off at the hinges and become grotesque.
Malik Solanka told himself he deserved no better than this. Let the
worst befall. In the midst of the collective fury of these unhappy isles,
a fury far greater, running far deeper than his own pitiful rage, he had
discovered a personal Hell. So be it. Of course Neela would never
return to him. He was not worthy of happiness. When she came to see
him, she had hidden her lovely face.

It was still dark when help came. The cell door opened and a young
Indo-Lilly man entered, bare-faced, wearing rubber gloves and
carrying a roll of plastic refuse sacks as well as a bucket, pan, and
mop. He cleaned up Solanka’s mess unflinchingly and with great
delicacy, never seeking to catch the perpetrator’s eye. When he had
finished, he returned with clean clothes—a pale green kurta and white
pantaloon pajamas—as well as a clean towel, two new buckets, one
empty, one full of water, and a bar of soap. “Please,” he said, and, “I
am sorry,” and then left. Solanka washed and changed and felt a little
more himself. Then Neela arrived, alone, unmasked, in a mustard-
colored dress, with a blue iris in her hair.
It obviously preyed on her mind that Solanka had witnessed her
timorous responses to her treatment by Babur. “Everything I’ve done,
everything I’m doing, is for the story,” she said. “Wearing the mask
was a gesture of solidarity, a way of earning the fighters’ trust. Also,
you know, I’m here to look at what they’re doing, not to have them
look at me. I could see you thought I was hiding from you behind it.
That wasn’t so. Similarly with Babur. I’m not here to argue. I’m
making a film.” She sounded defensive, taut. “Malik,” she said
abruptly, “I don’t want to talk about us, okay? I’m caught up in
something big right now. My attention has to be there.”
He went for it, gathered himself and made his play. All or nothing,
Hollywood or bust: he would never get another chance. He might not
have much of one anyway, but at least she had come to see him, had
actually dressed up for it, and that was a good sign. “This has become
much more than a documentary film project for you,” he said. “This
really goes to the heart. There’s a lot riding on it—your uprooted
roots are pulling hard. Your paradoxical desire to be a part of what
you left. And, no, I didn’t really think you were wearing the mask to
hide your face from me, or at least that wasn’t the only thing I
thought. I also thought you were hiding from yourself, from the
decision you’ve made somewhere along the line to cross a line and
become a participant in this thing. You don’t look like an observer to
me. You’re in too deep. Maybe it started out with a personal feeling
about Babur—and don’t worry, this isn’t jealousy speaking, at least
I’m trying hard not to let it be—but my guess is that whatever your
feelings about ‘Commander Akasz’ were, they’re a lot more ambiguous
now. Your problem is that you’re an idealist trying to be an extremist.
You are convinced that your people, if I can use so antiquated a term,

have been done down by history, that they deserve what Babur has
been fighting for—voting rights, the right to own property, the whole
slate of legitimate human demands. You thought this was a struggle
for human dignity, a just cause, and you were actually proud of Babur
for teaching your passive kinsmen and kinswomen how to fight their
own battles. In consequence you were willing to overlook a certain
amount of, what shall we call it, illiberalism. War is tough and so on.
Certain niceties get trampled. All this you told yourself, and all the
while there was another voice in your head telling you in a whisper
you didn’t want to hear that you were turning into history’s whore.
You know how it is. Once you’ve sold yourself, all you have left is a
limited ability to negotiate the price. How much would you put up
with? How much authoritarian crap in the name of justice? How
much bathwater could you lose without losing the baby?—So now
you’re caught up, as you say, in something big, and you’re right, it
deserves your attention, but so does this: that you only went this far
because of the fury that possessed you all of a sudden in my bedroom
in another city in another dimension of the universe. I can’t articulate
exactly what happened that night, but I do know that some sort of
psychic feedback loop established itself between you and Mila and
Eleanor, the fury went round and round, doubling and redoubling. It
made Morgen punch me out and it blew you clean across the planet
into the arms of a little Napoleon who will oppress ‘your people’ if he
comes out of this on top, even more than the ethnic Elbees, who have
been, at least in your eyes, the villains of this piece. Or he’ll oppress
them just as much but in a different way. Please don’t misunderstand.
—I know that when people pull apart, they usually employ
misunderstanding as a weapon, deliberately getting hold of the stick’s
wrong end, impaling themselves on its point in order to prove the
perfidy of the other.—I’m not saying that you came here because of
me. You were coming anyway, right? It was our big farewell night,
and as I remember, it had gone pretty well until my bedroom turned
into Grand Central Station. So you’d have been here, and the pulls
and pushes of being here would have worked on you whether I
existed or not. But I think that what pushed you over the edge was
disappointed love. You were disappointed in me and by me, which is
to say by love, by the great untrammeled love you were just allowing
yourself to begin to feel for me. You had just begun to trust me
enough, to trust yourself enough, to let yourself go, and then suddenly
the prince turns out to be a fat old toad. What happened is that the

love you’d poured out went bad, it curdled, and now you’re using that
sourness, that disenchantment and cynicism, to push you down
Babur’s dead-end road. Why not, eh? If goodness is a fantasy and love
is a magazine dream, why not? Nice guys finish second, to the victor
go the spoils, et cetera. Your system is fighting itself, the bruised love
is turning on the idealism and battering it into submission. And guess
what? That puts you in an impossible situation, where you’re risking
more even than your life. You’re risking your honor and self-respect.
Here it is, Neela, your Galileo moment. Does the earth move? Don’t
tell me. I already know the answer. But it’s the most important
question you’re ever going to be asked, except for the one I’m going to
ask you now: Neela, do you still love me? Because if you don’t, then
please leave, go meet your fate and I’ll wait here for mine, but I don’t
think you can do that. Because I do love you as you need to be loved.
You choose: in the right corner there’s your handsome Prince
Charming, who also, by a small mischance, turns out to be a psychotic
megalomaniacal swine. In the wrong corner there’s the fat old toad,
who knows how to give you what you need and who needs, so very
badly, what you in turn know how to give him. Can right be wrong?
Is the wrong thing right for you? I believe you came here tonight to
find out the answer, to see if you could conquer your fury as you
helped me conquer mine, to find out if you could find a way of
coming back from the edge. Stay with Babur and he’ll fill you up with
hatred. But you and me: we just might have a shot. I know it’s stupid
to make this kind of declaration when just an hour ago I was stinking
of my own shit and I still don’t have a room with a doorknob on the
inside, but there it is, that’s what I crossed the world to say.”
“Wow,” she said, after allowing a suitably respectful moment of
silence to elapse. “And I thought I was the big mouth on this team.”
She fished a heat-softened Toblerone bar out of her purse and Solanka
fell upon it greedily. “He’s losing the men’s confidence,” she told
Solanka. “The boy who helped you out tonight? There are plenty
more like him, maybe as many as half the total, and for some reason
they whisper to me. Khuss-puss, khuss-puss. It’s so sad. ‘Madam, we are
decent persons.’ Khuss-puss. ‘Madam, Commander Sahib is acting
strange, isn’t it?’ Khuss-puss. ‘Please, madam, do not mention my
thoughts to anyone.’ I’m not the only idealist around here. These kids
didn’t think they were going to war to flatten the earth or abolish the

hours of darkness. They’re fighting for their families, and all this
green-cheese material unnerves them. So they come to me and
complain, and that puts me in a very dangerous place. It doesn’t really
matter what advice I give—being a second focal point, a rival center,
is quite dangerous enough. One rat—one mole—is all it would take,
and speaking of toads, yes, I do love you, very much. Meanwhile,
what I saw on the outside before I brought the team in here was an
army that’s pretty sick of being a laughingstock. My information is
they’ve been talking to the Americans and the British. The rumor says
that the marines and the SAS may already be in Mildendo, in fact, I’ve
been feeling pretty foolish for weeks about running out on you like
that. There’s a British aircraft carrier just outside territorial waters,
and Babur doesn’t control the military airfields on Blefuscu, either.
The truth is I’ve been thinking for a while now that it’s time to leave,
but I don’t know how Babur will take it. Half of him wants to fuck me
on national television and the other half wants to beat me up for
making him feel that way. So now you know the real reason why I’ve
been wearing the mask: it’s the next best thing to putting my head in
a paper bag, and you came all this way for me and walked into the
lion’s den. I guess you must really dig me too, huh. I’m working on an
out. If I can get the right Fremen in the right places, I think it can be
done, and I have contacts in the army that can at least get us out to
the British boat or maybe a military plane. In the meanwhile I’ll make
sure you get looked after. I still don’t know about Babur, how far gone
he is. Maybe he thinks you’re a valuable hostage, even though I keep
telling him you’re not worth the trouble, you’re just a civilian who
blundered into something he didn’t understand, a little fish he should
throw back into the sea. If you don’t kiss me soon, I’ll be forced to kill
you with my own bare hands. Okay, that’s good. Now stay put. I’ll be
back.”
In Athens the Furies were thought to be Aphrodite’s sisters. Beauty
and vengeful wrath, as Homer knew, sprang from the self-same
source. That was one story. Hesiod, however, said that the Furies were
born of Earth and Air, and that their siblings included Terror, Strife,
Lies, Vengeance, Intemperance, Altercation, Fear, and Battle. In those
days they avenged blood crimes, pursuing those who harmed
(especially) their mothers—Orestes, long pursued by them after he
killed bloody-handed Clytemnestra, knew all about that. The leirion,

or blue iris, sometimes placated the Furies, but Orestes wore no
flowers in his hair. Even the bow of horn that the Pythoness, the
Delphic Oracle, gave him to repel their assaults proved to be of little
use. “Serpent-haired, dog-headed, bat-winged,” the Erinnyes hounded
him for the rest of his life, denying him peace.
These days the goddesses, less regarded, were hungrier, wilder,
casting their nets more widely. As the bonds of family weakened, so
the Furies began to intervene in all of human life. From New York to
Lilliput-Blefuscu there was no escape from the beating of their wings.
• • •
She didn’t come back. Young men and women attended to Solanka’s
daily needs. These were some of the weary, immured fighters who,
fearing their own leader, Babur, as much as the enemy outside the
compound walls, had gone to their dark Aphrodite for advice; but
when Solanka asked about Neela, they made dumb don’t-know
gestures and went away. “Commander Akasz” didn’t show up, either.
Professor Solanka, forgotten, washed up on the edge of things, dozed,
talked aloud to himself, drifted into unreality, lurching between
daydreams and panic attacks. Through the small barred window he
heard the noise of battle, growing more frequent, coming closer.
Pillars of smoke rose high into the air. Solanka thought of Little Brain.
I’d have set his house on fire. I’d have burned his city down.
Violent action is unclear to most of those who get caught up in it.
Experience is fragmentary; cause and effect, why and how, are torn
apart. Only sequence exists. First this then that. And afterward, for
those who survive, a lifetime of trying to understand. The assault
came on Solanka’s fourth day in Mildendo. At dawn the door of his
cell was opened. There stood the same taciturn young man—now
carrying an automatic weapon, and with two knives stuck in his belt
—who had so uncomplainingly cleaned up his mess a few days earlier.
“Come quickly, please,” he said. Solanka followed him, and then it
was into the labyrinth again, the bleak interconnecting rooms with
masked fighters guarding the way, approaching each door as if it were
booby-trapped, turning each corner as if an ambush lurked just
beyond; and in the distance Solanka heard the inarticulate
conversation of battle, the chatter of automatic rifles, the grunts of
heavy artillery, and, high above it all, the leathery beating of bat-

wings and the screeches of the dog-headed Three. Then he was
enclosed in the service elevator, manhandled through the ruined
kitchens, and pushed into an unmarked, windowless van; after which,
for a long time, nothing. High-speed motion, alarming halts, raised
voices, the motion renewed. Noise. Where was that shrieking coming
from? Who was dying, who was killing? What was the story here? To
know so little was to feel insignificant, even a little insane. Thrown
this way and that in the hurtling, swerving van, Malik Solanka howled
aloud. But this, after all, was a rescue. Somebody—Neela?—had
decreed him worthy. War erases the individual, but he was being
saved from the war.
The door opened; he squinted into the blinding daylight. An officer
saluted him—an exotically mustachioed ethnic Elbee wearing the
absurdly braided uniform of the Lilliputian army. “Professor. So
happy to see you safe, sir.” He reminded Solanka of Sergius, the stiff-
backed officer in Shaw’s Arms and the Man. Sergius, who never
apologized. This fellow had plainly been assigned to chaperone
Solanka, a task he fulfilled briskly, marching ahead like an overwound
toy. He led Solanka into a building bearing the insignia of the
International Red Cross. Later there was food. A British military
aircraft was waiting to carry him, along with a group of other foreign
passport-holders, back to London. “My passport was taken,” Solanka
told Sergius. “None of that matters now, sir,” the officer replied. “I
can’t leave without Neela,” Solanka went on. “I don’t know anything
about that, sir,” Sergius said. “My orders are to get you on board that
aircraft double-quick.”
All the seats on the British plane faced toward the tail. Solanka,
taking his allotted chair, recognized the men across the aisle as
Neela’s cameraman and sound recordist. When they stood up and
embraced him, he knew the news was bad. “Unbelievable, mate,” the
soundman said. “She got you out, too. Amazing woman.” Where is
she. None of this matters, your life, mine, he thought. Will she be here
soon. “She did the whole thing,” the cameraman said. “Organized the
Fremen who were sick of Babur, contacted the army on shortwave
radio, arranged the guaranteed safe-conducts, the lot. The president’s
out. Bolgolam, too. That bastard tried to thank her, called her a
national heroine. She cut him short. In her own eyes she was a traitor,
betraying the only cause she ever believed in. She was helping the bad
guys win, and it killed her. But she could see what Babur had

become.” Malik Solanka had grown very still and quiet. “The army got
tired of the jokes,” the sound engineer said. “They called up all
reservists and dusted off a lot of old but still serviceable pieces of
heavy artillery. Helicopter gunships from the Vietnam era, bought
secondhand from the United States years ago, ground-based mortars, a
few small tanks. Last night they took back control of the compound
perimeter. Still Babur wasn’t worried.” The cameraman indicated a
silver box. “We got it all,” he said. “She arranged incredible access.
Just incredible. He never believed they would use the heavy stuff
against the Parliament building, and certainly not while he was
holding his hostages. He was wrong about the building.
Underestimated their determination. But the hostages were the key,
and Neela turned that lock. The four of us came out together. And
then there was the whole second route, which she set up just for you.”
After that nothing was said. The terrible thing hung between them
like a fierce light, but it was too bright to look at. The soundman
began to cry. What happened, Solanka finally asked. How could you
leave her. Why didn’t she run with you, toward safety. Toward me.
The cameraman shook his head. “What she did,” he said, “it tore her
apart. She betrayed him, but she couldn’t run. That would have been
desertion under fire.” But she wasn’t a soldier! Oh God. God. She was
a journalist. Didn’t she know that? Why did she have to cross that
goddamn line? The soundman put his arm around Solanka. “There
was something she had to do,” he said. “The plan wouldn’t have
worked if she hadn’t stayed behind.” “To distract Babur,” the
cameraman said, dull-voiced, and there it was, the worst thing in the
world. To distract him: how? What did that mean? Why did it have to
be her? “You know how,” the soundman said. “And you know what it
means. And you know why it had to be her.” Solanka closed his eyes.
“She sent you this,” the cameraman was saying. Helicopter gunships
and heavy mortars, authorized by the freed President Golbasto Gue,
were blasting holes in the Lilliputian Parliament. A bomber shed its
load. The building was exploding, crumbling, on fire. Dirty smoke and
clouds of masonry dust climbed high into the sky. Three thousand
reservists and frontline troops assaulted the complex, taking no
prisoners. Tomorrow the world would condemn this ruthless action,
but today was for getting it done. Somewhere in the wreckage lay a
man wearing Solanka’s face and a woman wearing her own. Not even
Neela Mahendra’s beauty could affect the trajectory of the mortars,
the bombs like deadly fishes swimming downward through the air.

Come to me, she murmured to Babur, I am your assassin, the
murderer of my own hopes. Come here and let me watch you die.
Malik Solanka opened his eyes and read the handwritten note.
“Professor Sahib, I know the answer to your question.” Neela’s last
words. “The earth moves. The earth goes round the sun.”

18
From a distance the boy’s hair was still golden, although the new
growth beneath was darker. By his approaching fourth birthday the
yellow hair would have mostly gone. The sun was shining as Asmaan
rode his tricycle with great attack down a sloping path on the
flowering springtime Heath. “Look at me!” he shouted. “I’m going
really fast!” He had grown, and his diction was much clearer, but he
was still clothed in childhood’s radiance, that brightest of cloaks. His
mother ran to keep up with him, her long hair twisted away beneath a
large straw hat. It was a perfect April day at the height of the foot-
and-mouth epidemic. The government was simultaneously ahead in
the polls and unpopular, and the prime minister, Tony Ozymandias,
seemed shocked by the paradox: what, you don’t like us? But it’s us,
folks, we’re the good guys! People, people: it’s me! Malik Solanka, a
traveler from an antique land, watching his son from the privacy of a
grove of oaks, uncomplainingly allowed a black Labrador to sniff at
him. The dog moved on, having established that Solanka was not
suitable for his purposes. The dog was right. There were few purposes
for which Solanka felt suitable right now. Nothing beside remains.
Morgen Franz did not run. He didn’t “do running.” Beaming
myopically, the publisher lumbered down the slope toward the
waiting woman and child. “Did you see that, Morgen? It was very
good driving, wasn’t it? What would Daddy say?” Asmaan’s tendency
always to speak at top volume carried his words up to Solanka’s
hiding place. Franz’s reply was inaudible, but Malik could easily write
his lines. “Far out, Asmaan, man. Really nice.” The old hippie shit. To
his eternal credit, the boy frowned. “But what would Daddy say?”
Solanka felt a little surge of fatherly pride. Good for you, kid. You
remind that Buddhist hypocrite who’s who.
Asmaan’s Heath—or at least Kenwood—was studded with magical

trees. A gigantic fallen oak, its roots twisting in air, was one such
enchanted zone. Another tree, with a hole at the base of its trunk,
housed a set of storybook creatures, with whom Asmaan carried out
ritual dialogues each time he passed this way. A third tree was the
home of Winnie-the-Pooh. Nearer Kenwood House were large
spreading rhododendron bushes inside which witches lived and where
fallen twigs became magic wands. The Hepworth sculpture was a
sacred spot, and the words “Barbara Hepworth” had been a part of
Asmaan’s lexicon almost from the start. Solanka knew the route
Eleanor would take, and knew, too, how to follow the little group
without being noticed. He wasn’t sure he was ready to be noticed,
wasn’t certain he was ready for his life. Asmaan was asking to be
carried along the next part of the path, not wanting to ride the trike
uphill. This was an old laziness, entrenched by habit. Eleanor had a
weak back and so Morgen hoisted the boy up on his shoulders. That
had always been one of Solanka and Asmaan’s special things. “Can I
ride on my shoulders, Daddy?”—“Your shoulders, Asmaan. Say, ‘your
shoulders.’”—“My shoulders.” There goes everything I love on this
earth, Solanka thought. I’ll just watch him awhile. I’ll just watch over
him from here.
Once again he had withdrawn from the world. Even checking his
voice mail was hard. Mila had married, Eleanor left tight, miserable
messages about lawyers. The divorce was all but done. Solanka’s days
began, passed, ended. He had given up the New York sublet and taken
a suite at Claridge’s. Most days he only left it to allow the cleaners to
get in. He contacted no friends, made no business calls, bought no
newspaper. Retiring early, he lay wide-eyed and rigid in his
comfortable bed, listening to the noises of distant fury, trying to hear
Neela’s silenced voice. On Christmas Day and New Year’s Eve he
ordered room service and watched brainless television. This
expedition by taxi to North London was his first real outing in
months. He had been far from sure he would even see the boy, but
Asmaan and Eleanor were creatures of custom, and their movements
were relatively easy to predict.
It was a holiday weekend, so there were funfairs on the Heath. On
their way back to the house on Willow Road—it would be on the
market any day now—Asmaan, Eleanor, and Morgen wandered
through the usual rides and stalls. Asmaan was thawing toward Franz,
Solanka observed: laughing with him, asking him questions, his hand

disappearing inside Uncle Morg’s great hairy-knuckled fist. They went
in a bumper car together while Eleanor took photographs. When
Asmaan leaned his head against Morgen’s sports coat, something
broke in Malik Solanka’s heart.
Eleanor saw him. He was lounging by a coconut shy and she looked
right at him and stiffened. Then she shook her head vehemently, and
her mouth silently but very emphatically made the word “no.” No,
this was not the right time; after such a long gap it would be too
much of a shock for the lad. Call me, she mouthed. Before any future
meeting they ought to discuss how, when, where, and what Asmaan
should be told. The little fellow needed to be prepared. This was how
Solanka had known she would react. He turned away from her and
saw the bouncy castle. It was bright blue, blue as an iris, with a
bouncy staircase at one side. You climbed up the stairs to a bouncy
ledge, slid and tumbled down a wide, bouncy slope, and then, to your
heart’s content, you bounced and bounced. Malik Solanka paid his
money and slipped off his shoes. “’Ang about,” the enormous woman
attendant cried. “Kids only, guv. No adults allowed.” But he was too
quick for her, and with his long leather coat flying in the breeze, he
leapt up on the wibbly-wobbly stairs, leaving astonished children
floundering in his wake, and at the top of the stairs, standing high
above the fairground on the wibbly-wobbly ledge, he began to jump
and shout with all his might. The noise that emerged from him was
awful and immense, a roar from the Inferno, the cry of the tormented
and the lost. But grand and high was his bouncing; and he was
damned if he was going to stop leaping or desist from yelling until
that little boy looked around, until he made Asmaan Solanka hear him
in spite of the enormous woman and the gathering crowd and the
mouthing mother and the man holding the boy’s hand and above all
the lack of a golden hat, until Asmaan turned and saw his father up
there, his only true father flying against the sky, asmaan, the sky,
conjuring up all his lost love and hurling it high up into the sky like a
white bird plucked from his sleeve. His only true father taking flight
like a bird, to live in the great blue vault of the only heaven in which
he had ever been able to believe. “Look at me!” shrieked Professor
Malik Solanka, his leather coattails flapping like wings. “Look at me,
Asmaan! I’m bouncing very well! I’m bouncing higher and higher!”

ABOUT THE AUTHOR
S R is the author of nine novels: Grimus, Midnight’s Children
ALMAN USHDIE
(which was awarded the Booker Prize and the “Booker of Bookers,”
for the best novel to have won the prize), Shame (winner of the
French Prix du Meilleur Livre Étranger), The Satanic Verses (winner of
the Whitbread Prize for Best Novel), Haroun and the Sea of Stories
(winner of the Writers Guild Award), The Moor’s Last Sigh (winner of
the European Union’s Aristeion Prize for Literature), The Ground
Beneath Her Feet (winner of the Eurasian section of the
Commonwealth Prize), Fury (a New York Times Notable Book), and
Shalimar the Clown (a Time Book of the Year). He is also the author of
a book of stories, East, West, and three works of nonfiction—Imaginary
Homelands, The Jaguar Smile, and The Wizard of Oz. He is the co-editor
of Mirrorwork, an anthology of contemporary Indian writing.
A Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature, Salman Rushdie has
also been awarded Germany’s Author of the Year Prize, the Budapest
Grand Prize for Literature, the Austrian State Prize for European
Literature, and the Mantua Literary Award. He holds honorary
doctorates at five European and two American universities and is an
honorary professor in the humanities at M.I.T. He has been awarded
the Freedom of the City Award in Mexico City, and holds the rank of
Commander in the Order of Arts and Letters—France’s highest artistic
honor. His books have been translated into thirty-seven languages.

This book is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and incidents are a product of the
author’s imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual events or locales or
persons, living or dead, is entirely coincidental.
2006 Random House Trade Paperback Edition
Copyright © 2001 by Salman Rushdie
All rights reserved.
Published in the United States by Random House Trade Paperbacks, an imprint of The
Random House Publishing Group, a division of Random House, Inc., New York.
RANDOM HOUSE TRADE PAPERBACKS and colophon are trademarks of Random House, Inc.
Originally published in hardcover in the United States by Random House, an imprint of The
Random House Publishing Group, a division of Random House, Inc., in 2001, and in
paperback by Modern Library, an imprint of The Random House Publishing Group, a division
of Random House, Inc., in 2002.
Grateful acknowledgment is made to the following for permission to reprint previously
published material:
Hal Leonard Corporation: Excerpt from “The Donkey Song,” words and music by Irving Burgie
and William Attaway. Copyright © 1955 and copyright renewed 1983 by Cherry Lane Music
Publishing Company, Inc. (ASCAP), Lord Burgess Music Publishing Company (ASCAP), and
DreamWorks Songs (ASCAP). Worldwide rights for Lord Burgess Music Publishing Company
and DreamWorks Songs administered by Cherry Lane Music Publishing Company, Inc.
International copyright secured. All rights reserved. Reprinted by permission of Hal Leonard
Corporation.
Appleseed Music, Inc.: Excerpt from “The Motorcycle Song” by Arlo Guthrie.
Copyright © 1967, 1969 (Renewed) by Appleseed Music, Inc.
All rights reserved. Used by permission.
Grubman Indursky & Schindler, P.C.: Excerpt from “I’m On Fire” by Bruce Springsteen.
Copyright © 1984 by Bruce Springsteen (ASCAP).
Reprinted by permission.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data Rushdie, Salman.
Fury: a novel / Salman Rushdie.
p. cm.
eISBN: 978-1-58836-058-8

1. New York (N.Y.)—Fiction. I. Title.
PR6068.U757 F87 2001
823′.914—dc21 00-054699
www.atrandom.com
v3.0