The Cause of All Fear











THE CAUSE OF ALL FEAR




A Detective Luca Meroni Crime Thriller


The Rome Trilogy Book I




Toni Viola





OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

Copyright © 2025 Antony Flannagan
First Edition
First published in March 2025
Copyright © 2025 Antony Flannagan
The moral right of Antony Flannagan to be identified as the author of this work has been asserted in accordance with the Copyright, Designs & Patents Act,1988.

www.toniviola.com

This book is a work of fiction. Names, characters, businesses, organisations, places, and events are either products of the author’s imagination or used fictitiously and are not to be construed as real. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, events or locales is fictionalised or entirely coincidental.

For any enquiries regarding this book, please email: contact@toniviola.com

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic or mechanical means, including information storage and retrieval systems, without written permission from the author, except for the use of brief quotations in a book review.

AUTHOR NOTE: The UEFA Champions League Semi-Final between AS Roma and Liverpool has changed from April 2018 to October 2017 for narrative purposes.


OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 5


12:00 Tuesday 24 October 2017
Panino Giardino, Via San Vitale, Rome
Sitting in the shadows of the sandwich bar, he was just a guy in a business suit reading the sports paper. It appeared AS Roma believed they could overcome the three-goal deficit against Liverpool in the second leg of their Champions League encounter at Stadio Olimpico. The game was still one week away. This business should be resolved by then.
Inspector Gambarella had signalled that Meroni had taken the bait. The last piece was in play. The priority now was getting Meroni to Cassino.
Time to hand over to Don Salvatore Carmino and the Camorra. 
The fun was about to begin.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 6


17:00 Tuesday 24 October 2017
La Gatta Curiosa, Rome
Bianca spied him through the window. She considered his profile: dark skin, piercing blue eyes, chiselled features. At thirty-one, he was six years older than her. Back at the station, some guys referred to him as il merlo – the 'Blackbird'. It was a racist or homophobic slur, at worse both. Bianca didn’t care for her colleagues’ immaturity or prejudice. She had already filed a grievance report with Inspector Gambarella.
Meroni lifted his head from the paper he was reading.
Bianca felt her face redden. That wasn’t supposed to happen.
He waved her inside.
Drawing a deep breath, she walked into the busy bar. 
Meroni kicked a chair towards her from under the table. Tall and nice-looking. Big ticks in the plus column. 
‘How long had you been watching me?’
The heat returned to her face. Bianca loosened her scarf. ‘I wasn’t watching you. I was walking past and saw you … sitting right there.’
‘You just walked past? It’s a one kilometre walk from the Questura to Via di San Vincenzo and La Gatta Curiosa. Presumptuous of me, but I wouldn’t have thought you could afford an apartment near to the Trevi Fountain.’
‘No, this isn’t my usual route home, but it’s not a secret that you drink in here.’
‘Are you stalking me, Officer Bianca?’ He looked up at the bar sign. ‘Like the proverbial curious cat?’
‘I might be,’ she said.
‘Should I be worried?’ Meroni asked.
‘I think I’m the one who should be scared.’
‘About what, Bianca?’
‘Well, we all know what happened to the curious cat. Your reputation precedes you. I reckon you could get me into trouble.’
‘Who with? Your boyfriend? Shit, where are my manners? I mean, do you have a companion – a significant other?’ Meroni stirred his empty coffee cup.
Bianca took the hint, waved at the girl behind the counter to catch her attention, pointed to Meroni’s cup, and held up two fingers. She leant into the table and rested her chin on the back of her hand. ‘You’re very forward. I’m not sure I should answer such a personal question. I mean, I hardly know you.’
What was she saying? She didn’t know him at all. This morning marked their first encounter. She needed to get a grip of herself. ‘Anyway, what about you? Is there a special person, a significant other? Or are you the stereotype of the fast living, hard drinking, womanising detective?’
Meroni sat back in his chair and raised his hands. ‘Guilty, as charged. Am I that obvious? If so, I’ve become a caricature of my true, superficial, and vacuous self.’
Bianca noticed the darkness that spread across his face. It was a partial eclipse, a momentary betrayal of emotion, but she read it. ‘No, you are so not obvious. I know nothing about you; neither does anybody else down at the Questura. You’re a ghost. Like the body I found this morning.’ Bianca leaned further across the table. ‘The only thing they’ve told me is they call you il merlo.’
Meroni blew out his cheeks. ‘Now that is forward. You’ve been speaking with Crisanti.’
‘Investigatore Crisanti showed me the video …’ Bianca knew all about the Bari operation, and how the traffickers had exacted their revenge on the ‘Blackbird’. Crisanti shouldn’t have shared this information with Meroni’s colleagues. Especially an impressionable rookie. Bianca had also included this in her grievance report.
‘Remind me, when I return to the office, to teach that fascist bastard a lesson.’
‘I’ve already filed a complaint with Gambarella.’
Meroni looked sideways at her. ‘Why? Because he’s a Lazio fan?’
Bianca recognised the sarcasm and felt she may have overstepped the mark and needed to tone things down. ‘So, when are you coming back?’ It was a reasonable recovery.
Meroni waved her away. ‘Have you heard how the devil tried to tempt Saint Benedict?’
Bianca shook her head.
‘Legend has it that the devil, disguised as a little black bird – I know, the coincidence is spectacular – flew up to Saint Benedict and tempted the old monk to take hold of him. Saint Benedict made the sign of the cross, and the bird flew away. Then, bizarrely, after having improper thoughts about a woman he knew, and to rid himself of them, he jumped naked into a thorn bush.’
‘Why would he do that?’ she asked.
‘To banish the evil of temptation from his soul.’
‘Okay … I’m a little confused about what you’re getting at, Meroni. Are you suggesting Inspector Gambarella is playing the part of the monk, you’re the black bird, and the bush is a metaphor for the Questura? Whatever … I’m more intrigued by the woman that tempted you.’ 
‘It would be impolite to say any more, but every saint has a past, and every sinner has a future …’
She looked at him, puzzled.
‘I’m quoting Oscar Wilde.’ Meroni flashed a facetious smile.
‘For that piece of sardonic wisdom, I’ll forgive your impertinence about my private life; for the record, I have a boyfriend.’
‘So, where did you meet him?’
‘At the Police Academy.’
‘That was very convenient.’
‘What does that mean?’
‘Is it true love, Bianca?’
‘I’m sorry?’
‘Simple question, signorina.’
Bianca didn’t care for the impertinence; but she had made up a fictitious boyfriend, and the simple questions were coming thick and fast. ‘I don’t see what business that is of yours.’
‘You followed me to the bar, spied on me through that window, came and sat at my table, and interrogated me about returning to work. Now, you’ve become defensive when I ask a couple of innocent questions about your private life.’
The girl brought their coffees over. Bianca sat back, grateful for the interruption.
‘Grazie, Maria. How’s that English boy you’re dating getting on?’ Meroni asked her.
Maria picked up his empty cup. ‘He’s learning. I’ll have him house trained soon enough,’ she said.
Bianca’s gaze followed Maria as she walked back to the counter. She was young, and beautiful in an understated way, but her sapphire blue eyes were more brilliant even than Meroni’s. ‘One of your conquests?’
Meroni pointed to an outside pavement table. ‘You see that old man with the whiskers out there? If I ever went anywhere near Maria …’ He drew his thumb across his throat. ‘I would be a dead man. Besides, she is my friend. What do you want from me, Bianca?’
‘Straight to the point. Okay, I can do that too. I want to be a detective. I want to learn from the best.’ Bianca sipped at her coffee and nodded over her cup. ‘From you.’
Meroni looked over his shoulder, holding a hand to his chest. Me? he mouthed.
‘You really are full of yourself.’
‘Why do you say that, Daniela?’
Bianca lowered her cup and squinted. ‘How do you know my first name?’
‘Advertising yourself as a police officer can lead to trouble.’
Her hand moved to the identification card hanging around her neck.
‘You’re safe in here. I get it. You’re at the start of your career, all keen and eager. I was like that once … But ditch the lanyard, Bianca. You’re not defined by that piece of plastic. Bank clerks and social workers like to advertise their profession by wearing their ID in public, not police officers. Do you and your boyfriend socialise with the other guys at the academy?’
Bianca held up her hands to fend off the barrage of condescension. ‘More questions about my boyfriend?’
Meroni downed his espresso.
‘We hang out with colleagues in our spare time,’ she said.
‘You don’t have to be defensive. Detective work is a mindset. It can be lonely. You know full well it’s not like on the television, or in books. Fast living, hard drinking, and fornicating detectives? They aren’t for real. Except for me.’ Meroni raised his empty cup in salutation.
‘I didn’t say fornicating, I said womanising.’
‘It’s the same difference.’
‘Seriously, how do I become a detective?’
‘You do the exam and apply.’
‘I mean a proper detective … like you.’
‘Don’t bother. Nobody will ever thank you for it. Are you in love with your boyfriend?’
‘You won’t give up, will you?’ Bianca tucked loose strands of blonde hair behind her ears. ‘I’m very fond of him.’
‘What’s all this fond business? It is love or hate … there’s nothing in between. People are fond of cats and dogs.’
‘That’s a harsh outlook on things. “Love or hate, nothing in between …” Anyway, why can’t I be fond of him? You must be fond of something?’ Bianca pushed the pink pages of La Gazzetta dello Sport towards Meroni. She needed to change the subject.
‘I love football.’
Bianca mimed a yawn.
‘Come on, enough of all that nonsense. You’re right, your personal life is none of my business. Tell me about the Colosseum this morning.’
‘I already told you what I saw at the scene. A dead body. You came along and told Gamba a ghost story.’
‘What else have you heard since then?’
‘That they’re trying to link it to a murder in Siena?’
‘Anything else?’
‘That they found the body in Siena at the Piazza del Campo … I overheard Gamba talking to Crisanti.’ Bianca inwardly cursed herself. It was the second time she had referred to the inspector by his nickname. Too over-familiar. Time to tone it down.
‘Who told you I’d be here, Daniela? Who was your source?’
‘Multiple questions. I can neither confirm nor deny if anybody told me I would find you in here.’
‘That is the correct answer. You’re learning fast. Let’s talk this through …’ Meroni dragged his chair closer.
Bianca removed her lanyard and zipped it in a jacket pocket.
Meroni gave an approving nod. ‘The papers in Siena carried the story in their evening editions: one picture of a forensic tent and three bland paragraphs. I’ve been sitting here for forty-five minutes. All I saw on RaiNews was Teresa Conti jabbering nonsense into her microphone, with the police tape and tent in the background. The subtitles suggested the media has nothing to go on. The ticker scroll also gives little information. Somebody is keeping this story close …’
Bianca followed Meroni’s gaze.
She was astonished to see Teresa Conti standing at the entrance door to the bar. To borrow Meroni’s words, it was a spectacular coincidence. She looked up at the blank TV screen. She didn’t remember it being switched on when she got here. However, her focus had been on engaging Meroni.
Maria dropped the counter flap with a loud bang.
The noise caused Bianca to turn back to the table, only to find Meroni had vanished.
Just like a ghost.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 7


22:00 Tuesday, 24 October 2017
Teatro dell’ opera, Rome
Teresa Conti had accompanied many prospective suitors to the Teatro dell’Opera. This evening, she was the guest of the deputy mayor of Rome. At regular intervals, she remembered to fix a polite smile on the former Carabinieri Commander General. Teresa detested all forms of classical music, but to maintain her public image she had to be seen in high-profile places with influential people. She was the roving face of RaiNews 24, with over sixty thousand social media followers. Therefore, a night at the opera, watching a performance of Verdi’s Rigoletto in the company of a handsome man with top connections, was a price worth paying.
The deputy mayor placed a firm hand on Teresa’s left knee. He either didn’t know or didn’t care about the #MeToo movement, which had gone viral across the world’s media over the past week. More likely the latter. A powerful man, he carried a sense of entitlement. Teresa was a fierce advocate of women’s rights but was happy to use men to her own advantage. If she had to suffer a little non-consensual touching, it would be on her terms.
Teresa’s thoughts drifted to Meroni. Her wildest imaginings always involved him. He had been her lover of choice for the past year. Although, he had been different of late. He had been in a depressed mood on his return to Rome after the assignment in Bari, distracted and uncommunicative. It seemed nothing she could do would tempt him out of it.
Teresa removed the offending hand as it crept up inside her dress and sought her inner thigh.
The deputy mayor watched the stage, smiling and nodding in time with the music. Suddenly, without a word or gesture, he stood up and left.
Teresa felt the cold exhalation of breath upon her neck.
Somebody else had entered the box and sat down behind her.
The English voice came from the darkness.
‘Let’s talk about Meroni.’
A whisper in the shadows. A dark, foreboding voice from her past.
‘Don’t turn around, Signora Conti.’
A firm hand grabbed her by the hair. Teresa looked across at the other boxes. The seats were all empty. Convenient.
‘What about Meroni?’ she said.
Stifled laughter. Mocking. Impatient. ‘The body at the Colosseum. You were there with your film crew this morning, the first reporter on the scene – as instructed. Meroni has mental issues. In Bari, they fucked with his mind. He’s a lost boy and no good to us, unless he gets his shit together. That’s where we need your help.’ The voice came closer. This time, it spoke in Italian. ‘I know you can understand English perfectly, Teresa.’ The hand gripped her hair tighter, causing her to wince. ‘Yes, it’s been a while since you left London. You’ve done very well for yourself in the meantime. But … you’re still the same Teresa in matters of the heart.’
Anger replaced Teresa’s fear. Her mind flashed back to the time they had ordered her to leave London and never to return. No explanation needed. Teresa’s ambition and sexual appetite had been as strong twenty years ago as they were today. While her then husband was away with the Royal Navy, she had engaged in an affair with a young Conservative politician, a Junior Secretary at the Home Office. They had been discreet. But her husband was even more ambitious than she was, and he had already forged high-ranking connections within Whitehall. One morning, they had handed her a ticket for an Alitalia flight out of Heathrow to Rome that very afternoon and told her not to return. To soften the blow, they had found her a job with the Il Messaggero newspaper. Teresa had kept her counsel, but she had always known there would be a day of reckoning. She cursed her reckless infidelities, the root cause of all the problems she had ever experienced in life. ‘I don’t know what you are talking about.’
Teresa felt her mobile phone vibrate in the clutch bag she held in her lap.
‘Get that, will you?’ The voice said, reverting to English.
Teresa gently clicked the clasp of her bag; she reached in and tilted the device towards her so she could see the screen. A new message. She traced the passcode with her forefinger and clicked the Messages icon. There were no words displayed. It was a pixelated image of black on white, flesh intertwined, her own face contorted with carnal pleasure.
‘You make a lovely couple. I doubt the deputy mayor knows about your close links to the Questura di Roma, and Gambarella’s prized undercover asset. I’m sure you understand where we’re coming from, Teresa.’
She felt her stomach tighten. ‘What business is it of yours?’
‘That is an interesting question. What business is it of mine? Well, it’s not just my business, is it? Your husband sends his regards and is so looking forward to seeing you again. But first, we need Meroni on this case. It’s part of the plan, Teresa. The grand design. You’re a very organised lady, you like schemes. Now, you need to keep your end of the bargain. There must be no careless talk …’
‘What do you want me to do?’
‘That’s better, Teresa. I wonder, does your boss at RaiNews know about your conveniently forgotten past life? You’ve kept your little secret quiet for such a long time. Does anybody know you are a bigamist? And this relationship with Meroni, it’s not right. Back in England it would be considered illegal.’
The Duke of Mantua launched into his famous canzone.
Teresa felt a rising panic. Was there a connection between Meroni and her life in London?
‘Has the penny dropped? Do your social media followers know what exactly drives the face of RaiNews crazy with desire when her inhibitions float like a … feather on the wind?’
Teresa flinched. She wanted to hit out.
‘Steady, old girl. There’s no need for violence. Tell me, what is it about il merlo that brings out the whore in la cagna? I guess it must be the mothering instinct.’
Teresa’s blood turned to ice. 
‘Now, be a good girl and listen carefully … We need you to replace Meroni’s mobile phone – with this one.’
A smartphone came over her shoulder.
‘It’s identical to his. You are to swap the phone and ask him pertinent questions about the investigation into this morning’s events at the Colosseum. Pique his interest. Sow the seed, reap the reward, et cetera. We need him in Cassino by tomorrow evening. When you leave his apartment in the morning, you will take the original phone and hand it to the man at the newspaper kiosk on Via del Viminale. The one opposite Meroni’s apartment. Just like a real spy novel. Now, enjoy the Verdi. I know how much you love opera.’
The voice sang along with the Duke of Mantua.
La donna è mobile, Qual Piuma al vento.
Woman is flighty, like a feather in the wind.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 8


23:45 Tuesday 24 October 2017
Meroni’s Apartment, Rome
He watches her walk through the throng gathered outside the Teatro dell’Opera. She crosses the road at pace and passes under the portico entrance to his building. He looks at himself in the mirror and pushes the barbells towards the ceiling.
The intercom buzzes, but he ignores the call.
He lifts the weights and counts.
Three, four, five …
The intercom sounds again.
Seven, eight, nine …
Three short blasts, followed by three longer ones … then, another trio of short blasts.
Ten …
A last long, drawn-out buzzing, a desperate call for attention. He pictures her finger holding down the button, drops the barbells on the bed and walks over to the intercom.
‘Pronto.’
‘Let me in …’
‘Where are your manners?’
‘Now!’
He listens for the click of the entrance door latch, walks into the bedroom, grabs his T-shirt from the floor, hears the hammering, walks to the hallway, and opens the door to the apartment.
She runs in and pounds a fist against his chest.
‘Why did you run out on me earlier today? And who was that girl you were with?’
He pulls back and looks into her eyes. 
He senses fear.
She kisses him.
Again, he succumbs to her violent temptation.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 9


08:00 Wednesday 25 October 2017
Via del Viminale, Rome
Meroni saw the black Alfa Romeo parked up opposite. The occupants’ heads turned in his direction. He edged the Vespa out of the entrance to his apartment block and turned onto the one-way system. The Alfa Romeo moved in his peripheral vision. He glimpsed the licence plate. The prefix letters showed the car was from Naples.
Meroni manoeuvred through the rush hour traffic and took the first left down Via Torino. The Vespa did not have wing mirrors. They would have made anti-surveillance easier; he resisted the temptation to keep looking over his shoulder as he turned left again into the heavy flow of vehicles on Via Nazionale.
Meroni signalled to take the next left turn, Via Firenze. The one-way road system would take him back past his apartment. If the Alfa Romeo turned left, it would indicate a follow. Meroni heard the angry blast of a horn as he cut across the taxi on his inside. He had been so preoccupied with the Alfa Romeo he hadn’t seen it. Meroni turned to remonstrate with the driver.
The Alfa Romeo had to drive on. Both occupants had looked away. It was a definite follow. Their efforts were amateurish. Meroni threw his arms up to dismiss the taxi driver’s protestations and sped off down Via Firenze.
He stopped near to the front entrance of the Teatro dell’Opera, behind the news kiosk, pushed the Vespa back into the line of motorbikes and scooters parked up near the piazza, and leaned over the steering column.
The Alfa Romeo reappeared on Via del Viminale. It stopped again next to the news kiosk.
Teresa was standing on the pavement. Preoccupied with her own thoughts, oblivious to him.
She would be safe. He was the target. Time was too precious to overthink his next move. To beat the one-way system, Meroni waited for a break in the traffic and sped off across the road towards Via Napoli. He headed for the street market in Via Cesare Balbo, where the pedestrians forced him to slow to a near crawl. Even at this hour, there were many early morning shoppers to negotiate, and he propelled the Vespa by pushing at the ground with his feet. Meroni scanned the faces, looking for any sign of danger. As he passed the last of the stalls, a shadowy figure stepped out from a doorway.
Meroni opened the throttle and turned a hard left. 
He glanced behind and saw the gun pointing in his direction.
A woman screamed.
And then nothing.
The next thing Meroni heard in the silence which engulfed him was the death whisper of the bullet, followed by a metallic thud as it tore through his rear number plate and slammed into the engine block.
The Vespa gave a sharp jolt.
Meroni wrestled back control and bent low over the handlebars as he sought to escape.
On Piazza dell’Esquilino, at the intersection with Via Cavour, the traffic lights were green.
Meroni stole another glance over his shoulder.
The shooter had gone, but to his surprise the Alfa Romeo was back – gaining on him.
He had nanoseconds in which to process his scrambled thoughts as he squeezed the scooter through the lanes of traffic. A cacophony of horns caused him to stop and look behind again. The Alfa Romeo had nudged forward into the gridlock and had become wedged between two taxis, neither of which would give way, but the Alfa’s passenger had got out and was on foot, running towards him.
Meroni focussed ahead. The lights turned to red. He checked the intersection, calculating his chances against any oncoming traffic.
It was a wild and reckless gamble.
Meroni sped across Via Cavour and turned in front of an oncoming bus.
The Vespa died underneath him.
He frantically twisted the throttle grip back-and-forth to coax the engine back to life.
He looked down. The petrol gauge showed empty.
The bullet had punctured the tank. 
The brakes of the bus screamed in anguish. But it was too late. Meroni was down, skidding on his back, helmet bumping against the road surface, limbs flailing out of control. He rolled across the cobbled street and felt the sharp impact of metal on his ribs. He had crashed into a bicycle, knocking the male rider to the ground. Meroni picked himself up and ran. No time to check the cyclist’s wellbeing. He slalomed through vehicles and pedestrians, hell-bent on putting distance between himself and his pursuers.
The bells of Santa Maria Maggiore rang out.
A deathly toll. 
But Heaven could wait.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 10


08:00 Wednesday 25 October 2017
Piazza Beniamino Gigli, Rome
It was a betrayal. Teresa knew Meroni was in danger, but it would ruin her career if the truth about her first marriage surfaced. That couldn’t happen under any circumstances, no matter who she hurt.
As instructed, she waited in the queue at the news kiosk.
An Alfa Romeo pulled up at the kerb. Two males occupied it. Dark, surly, southerners. The driver whistled through the open window and blew a kiss. The passenger leaned across and mimicked firing a handgun with his fingers. 
What had she got herself involved with?
‘Signora?’ The news vendor reached out a hand. 
She stepped forward and retrieved Meroni’s mobile phone from her clutch bag. 
The news vendor took it.
Teresa turned to hail a taxi.
The Alfa Romeo was gone.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 11


08:15 Wednesday 25 October 2017
Molino Bar & Cucina, Rome
Meroni ran. Ignoring the pain in his ribs, he sprinted up the road leading away from Piazza dell’Esquilino, weaving in and out of the slow-moving traffic, and dodging the pedestrians in Piazza di Santa Maggiore; he did not stop, or look back, until he entered Molino on Via Merulana. It was a popular bakery and restaurant, full of early morning customers. Plenty of cover. He could blend in. Meroni removed his helmet, took out his phone and hit speed dial for Teresa Conti. 
Engaged tone. 
Nodding at a member of staff, Meroni walked over to the street-facing counter. A perfect vantage point to watch and wait. He caught his reflection in the mirror to his right; apart from a tear at the knee of his jeans, his clothing had survived the fall. He dusted the road grit from the sleeve of his leather jacket and turned to grab a stool. The sudden movement caused the pain to shoot through his body. The bicycle pedal had caught him in the ribs as he tumbled into the hapless cyclist. He probed his chest and abdomen. Bruises, nothing broken.
Meroni sat down. His left leg shook with nervous impatience as he scanned the scene outside: cars, buses, mopeds, cyclists, people. Thousands of individual orbits revolving in synch around Rome, proof eternal of Newton’s first law of motion. 
Meroni dialled again.
Pick up, Teresa ...
‘Pronto.’
‘Teresa?’
‘Missing me already, Meroni?’
‘Where are you?’
‘Why are you whispering?’
‘Are you in a taxi, Teresa?’
‘Yes, but I can barely hear you.’
Meroni checked the other customers. Nobody was listening to his conversation. He spoke a little louder. ‘Get the driver to come to Molino, on Via Merulana.’ 
A girl came over to serve him. Meroni held up two fingers and jerked his thumb over his shoulder – a double shot of espresso to go. 
‘Why do I need to come to Via Merulana?’ 
‘I’ll tell you when you get here. Make sure the driver avoids Piazza dell’Esquilino because there’s been an accident.’
‘Are you okay?’
‘Yes, I’m fine. I take it you’re in the back seat?’
‘Of course.’
‘When you get to Via Merulana, make yourself invisible.’
‘What are you talking about, Luca?’
‘There are quite a few people in here. They’ll recognise you and I don’t want to draw any unnecessary attention. What make of taxi are you in?’
‘I don’t know.’
‘Could you ask the driver, Teresa?’
‘Wait … Driver, what car are we in?’ There was a muffled response. ‘It’s an Opel.’
‘Which model?’ 
‘Driver … What model?’ Again, the sound of somebody speaking in the background. ‘It’s a Meriva.’
‘What colour is the taxi?’
‘Are you serious?’
‘What colour is the taxi, Teresa?’
‘It’s a white taxi … you know what colour the taxi is. All the proper taxis in Rome are white. What’s going on?’
‘I’ll see you soon.’ Meroni ended the call and kept watch outside. His leg was still shaking. He couldn’t help but smile at Teresa’s insistence that she was in a “proper” taxi. All cabs with an official licence in Rome were white. He should have known she wouldn’t ride with a budget firm.
Meroni dialled Russo’s number.
‘Pronto.’
‘Russo, have a look outside your apartment …’
‘Morning, Meroni. How are you? I’m fine, thanks. How are you? Oh, I’m fine too, thank you for asking …’
‘No time, Roberta. What do you see from your window?’
He had called her by her first name. It was a verbal signal, a prompt.
‘Okay, there is a thick-set male stood on the opposite pavement. Olive-skinned, bald, tattoos on his neck, leather jacket, smoking … a southerner. Is this a test? I like tests.’
‘Stop taking the piss and keep watching …’
Meroni could hear Russo humming. Sometimes she could be infuriating.
‘He just nodded to somebody else up the street. I can’t see who. Wait … there’s an Alfa Romeo – black on Napoli plates. Nice car.’
The Alfa Romeo was getting around fast. He had last seen it less than ten minutes ago, and yet it had negotiated the rush-hour traffic and made it to her apartment.
‘Listen, Russo. The Alfa followed me, they’ll wait to see if I turn up at yours. Don’t go outside until they’ve gone and keep an eye out for the car. I’m going home.’      
‘What about the murders?’
‘I need time to think.’
‘And Gambarella will buy that?’
‘He’ll have to. I haven’t returned to the Questura – still officially on sick leave, remember. I’ll call you later.’
‘I might have plans.’
‘Have fun.’
‘Girls usually do.’
Meroni hung up and called Gambarella.
‘Pronto.’
‘Gamba, any more news about the Colosseum?’
‘I was hoping you might have something for me,’ said Gambarella.
Meroni remained silent.
‘That tells me everything I need to know. I spoke with the senior officer in Siena. There’s nothing more from their case other than what we already know. Body found, old-fashioned clothing, papers, no DNA, or fingerprint hit. The media are clamouring for more information, Meroni. I’ve already fielded three calls from la cagna this morning.’
It was the tabloid press who had first called Teresa, the 'Bitch'. Her reputation was one of a hard-nosed and formidable journalist. She intimidated most men; hence, the derogatory nickname. Teresa didn’t suffer fools, so why had she been so desperate to get hold of Gambarella this morning? She had other sources within the Questura.
A white Opel Meriva taxi stopped on the opposite side of the road.
‘Boss, could you get one of your uniform boys to pick up my Vespa from the junction of Via Cavour and Piazza dell’Esquilino. Slight accident involving a bus … Oh, and you might receive a report of a shooting incident in the street market near to my apartment.’
‘What the …’
Meroni hung up. Immediately, his phone rang. The inspector calling him back.
Meroni declined the call.
The girl returned with his coffee. He took the paper cup and handed her five euros. ‘Keep the change.’
She smiled and pocketed the note.
Meroni exited and jogged across the road to the waiting taxi. He got in the front passenger seat. ‘Stazione Termini please, driver.’
‘Meroni, what is this awful mess you’ve gotten into?’ asked Teresa. ‘Why are you going to the train station, and please explain why I’m having to lie down on the back seat of a taxi?’
Meroni turned and looked down at her. ‘Multiple questions? Bad interview technique, Signora Giornalista.’ 
Teresa pulled a face. Meroni put his fingers to her lips. He cast his eyes towards the taxi driver. Now was not the time to talk. 
The taxi moved off. Meroni looked out the back window. There was no vehicle following behind. The clumsy efforts of the Alfa Romeo were a deliberate attempt to draw him in. The bullet fired at him was wide of the mark. It wasn’t as if the Vespa was a fast-moving target. The shooter had aimed low, intending to miss him. And now, the Alfa Romeo was in Via Sistina outside Russo’s apartment. Something was going down.
There was only one place to go. A safe space. Out of harm’s way. He needed to remove himself from the equation. Meroni’s mood darkened. He couldn’t grasp at answers when he didn’t know the questions. He would anger Gambarella by going, but he was so tired. His mind was all over the place; he needed more time to reset. 
He was going home. To Cassino.
Teresa had lapsed into silence. Upon waking this morning, he had found her in the kitchen. Usually, she sneaked out early from the apartment, headed home, and then to work, leaving him asleep in bed. This morning, she had hung around. Apart from asking whether Inspector Gambarella had finally persuaded him to return to the Questura and assigned him to the murder at the Colosseum, she had said little else. Not like her at all.
The taxi pulled into the rank outside the station. Meroni gestured for Teresa to sit up. 
She moved behind him, leant forward, and whispered into his ear. ‘Please tell me what’s going on.’
That was more like Teresa. Digging for a story.
The taxi driver grinned. 
Meroni sang, ‘Woman is flighty, like a feather in the wind …’
It was a joke. She had been at the opera yesterday evening and by her own admission she was a fickle woman. But when Meroni sang the duke’s canzone, Teresa recoiled.
Meroni exited the taxi and opened a rear door. Teresa shuffled across the back seat. He thrust his crash helmet at her and slammed the door shut. 
‘Via Margutta.’ Meroni handed the driver twenty euros through the open window. 
Teresa slumped forward and rested her forehead on the helmet. 
Meroni stared after the taxi as it drove away. He didn’t like this version of Teresa Conti.
But it wasn’t just her. Everything was off.
Meroni turned and entered the station, allowing himself to be swallowed up by the great swarm of humanity.
He downed his espresso.
He needed to escape.
He studied the departures board. Thirty minutes until the next train to Cassino – plenty of time for more coffee.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 12


08:30 Wednesday 25 October 2017
Via Margutta, Rome
Teresa’s mobile phone rang. An unknown number. ‘Buongiorno, Signora Conti.’ 
Her thoughts returned to the Teatro dell’Opera. It was the Englishman.
‘Where is Meroni?’
‘He just got out the taxi at Stazione Termini.’
‘And you got his phone. Good girl, Teresa. Your efforts so far have pleased the Commander. He sends his very best regards. He will be in touch as soon as he has spoken with Don Salvatore.’
‘Don Salvatore Carmino, the Camorra crime boss?’
‘That would be him.’
‘I want that story.’
‘Patience, Teresa, there’s a good girl. Arrivederci!’
Teresa stared at her phone. Don Salvatore Carmino was the most notorious crime boss in Naples. That would explain the two guys in the Alfa Romeo; but what was the Camorra’s involvement? More important, what was Meroni’s connection? He had not returned to work yet, despite Gambarella calling him out to the Colosseum yesterday. After he came back from Bari, she had thought it was the end of their relationship. He had changed for the worse. Gone was the spark. He had become a brooding presence in her life. Teresa did not like weakness in men. But he had been to hell, and so she had forgiven him; for even on broken wings, Meroni still made her heart soar.
Any thoughts of betrayal dissipated as she considered how big this story could be: an unexplained murder at the Colosseum, the British Intelligence Service, and the Camorra. This story might be the piece to get her noticed by the press worldwide. Teresa was impatient for more details, but knew she would have to wait for the Commander to contact her.


The taxi driver watched her walk away. He couldn’t believe Teresa Conti had been in his taxi. He sniffed at the lingering odour of her perfume. She smelled of sex. He had tried to engage with her without coming across as too creepy. She had not been very talkative. But she was a big shot, and she had her nickname to live up to.
The taxi driver hadn’t understood a word of what she had said to her companion, as they had been speaking in English.
But he couldn’t wait to tell the guys at the rank.
Teresa Conti in his cab!
Before pulling away, he adjusted his rearview mirror. He had moved it earlier to afford a better look at his celebrity passenger. The helmet caught his eye on the back seat.
He looked up Via Margutta.
La cagna had gone.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 13


09:00 Wednesday 25 October 2017
Stazione Termini, Rome
The town of Cassino is located one hundred and thirty-six kilometres southeast of Rome. The next train would take one hour and twenty-five minutes to get there.
Meroni had loitered around the station; now, he was impatient to get away.
He walked along the platform to the furthest carriage. Prior to boarding, he observed the other passengers, looking for any signs, any clue as to their intentions. Whoever was tailing him knew their job. He cursed himself. The follow tactics in the Alfa Romeo were clumsy. Their intention was deliberate; they had calculated that he would view them as amateurish. These people were nothing of the sort. They had figured it all out: his route, his reaction, his arrogance. This was a dangerous enemy.
As he waited to board, Meroni cast his mind back over his undercover assignments. Five years of UC work: drug importation; paedophile networks; fraud investigations; gangmasters … The list went on. One recurring nightmare haunted him: the Bari operation. The poor decision-making of his police leaders had compromised him. The infiltration of the human trafficking gang didn’t result in any arrests; they vanished back to the Balkans. They were ruthless criminals but lacked subtlety. If they wanted him dead, they would have already killed him. Undercover work was a dark business. He wanted out of the shadows.
Meroni kept watch on the platform. The follow made no sense. The car was on Napoli plates. Had he made enemies of the Camorra? Intelligence reports connected them to the human trafficking gangs in Bari; but the subjects in his brief were all Albanian criminals. Surprisingly, the Camorra hadn’t featured in any of his other assignments.
Then somebody had fired a gun at him, and they had meant to miss – it was a warning shot. Since his return from Bari, Meroni had been playing the field. There were a lot of bored, middle-aged women in Rome that needed a little excitement in their lives. Had his promiscuity incurred the wrath of a cuckolded husband or love rival? He dismissed this as too fanciful, the stuff of a soap opera. But he would take it as a sign that he needed to stop the womanising. It wasn’t big, or clever, and it left him feeling unsatisfied. Shallow.
Meroni pulled out his phone and dialled.
‘Pronto.’        
‘Russo, I need you to look at ANPR data between Naples and both Siena and Rome on the dates in question. How are you, by the way?’
‘You’re so funny, Meroni. I’m already working on it. However, I’ve done more digging on the passenger records …’
‘I’m just getting on the train. Keep talking.’
‘The Ellis Island Foundation have a readily retrievable database of sixty-five million people who entered the United States via the Big Apple between 1820 and 1957 …’
‘I know …’ said Meroni.
‘Okay, in that case you don’t need the sales pitch … Each record holds information on the passenger’s name, date of arrival, the ship they travelled on, and their age. The Colosseum victim you already know about. I could find nothing more online in relation to the body in Siena. But I called Gambarella’s office and spoke with his assistant, De Valla. She put me on to an extremely helpful detective, who is coming to Rome today.’ 
‘Is he really?’
‘She – I’m meeting her for dinner; and I will look to mix business with pleasure. She told me the name on the passenger record found in Siena, drum roll, wait for it …’
‘Would it be Antonio Pacitto, by any chance?’
‘Why do you always have to steal my thunder? For once, zitto – shut up.’ Russo paused, waiting for Meroni to speak. He stayed silent. ‘Grazie. That’s better. Unsurprisingly, the name on the document was “Antonio Pacitto”, eighteen years old, date of arrival 20 March 1907. The ship was called Sannio, and the port of departure was Naples.’
‘Confirm how many Antonio Pacittos from Cassino sailed out of Naples?’ asked Meroni.
‘Seven, if you include the one called Domenico Antonio Pacitto.’ 
‘The listings on the Ellis Island website include seven passengers named Antonio Pacitto from Cassino. Seven, who all sailed from Naples in search of a new life in America. Seven – God’s number. “God is my right.” That’s the motto that sits underneath the lion and the unicorn emblem of the United Kingdom. Russo, the ghosts themselves are the message. They have delivered two. Wait, a minute …’
Meroni saw the train guard making his way through the carriage. The guard laughed and joked with the passengers as he checked tickets. He sang. The same morbid refrain over and again.
‘Who is that?’ Russo asked.
‘It’s the guard. Seems he fancies himself as a contestant on Italia’s Got Talent.’ 
Russo sang, ‘Una strana sensazione …’
‘What the fuck, Russo?’
‘The song is from one of my father’s favourite records – a self-titled debut album by a long forgotten progressive rock band. Odd.’
‘What’s odd about it?’
‘It’s probably nothing, just me getting spooked by all your ghost theories.’
Meroni held up his ticket. 
The guard saluted and walked away without checking it.
Meroni shrugged. Put the ticket in his pocket.
‘Tell me more, Russo.’
‘The band was called Biglietto Per L’Inferno.’
Meroni ended the call.
A whistle sounded. 
He stood up and walked through the carriage. 
The train crawled out of Stazione Termini. 
Meroni pressed the button on the sliding door and entered the next compartment. 
‘Scusi, signora. Could you tell me where the guard has gone?’
The woman was serving drinks. She stopped pouring from the coffeepot. ‘Which carriage are you in?’
‘Up at the front.’
‘Then I’ll get to you shortly. Have you validated your ticket?’
‘Yes, the guard checked it. He was male. Middle-aged. Black …’
‘There’s nobody working this train other than me.’
‘But he was back there, joking with the passengers … and singing.’
The woman put her coffeepot down. ‘There is nobody else working on the train this morning. Just me on my own, serving drinks and snacks, and checking tickets. ‘O Sole Mio …’ she sang. ‘Only me. Go back to your carriage and I’ll be with you in a minute.’
The train gathered speed.
Meroni looked out of the window and watched the station disappear.
‘Please, sir. There are people waiting to be served … and I’ve got tickets to inspect.’
Meroni turned and walked back to his seat in the front carriage. 
The lyrics to the song repeating in his brain. Una strana sensazione – a strange feeling. Words taken from a song of a self-titled album: Biglietto Per L’Inferno – “Ticket to Hell”. 
Exactly where was this train journey taking him?

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 14


09:07 Wednesday 25 October 2017
Stazione Termini, Rome
Gordon Marshall stepped off the train and slipped into the station shadows. He dialled a number from his encrypted phone. It answered in one ring.
‘Yes, Commander.’
‘The subject is on the train now leaving Stazione Termini and should be with you in around ninety minutes,’ said Marshall. ‘Where are you now?’
‘I’m nearly at Frosinone. My driver didn’t spare any horses on the autostrada.’
‘Good. When you get to Cassino, put in a call to Carmino. It’s over to him then.’
‘That’s all understood, Sir.’
‘What about Conti?’ asked Marshall.
‘Task one complete. However, she was getting impatient with me for more information when we spoke on the phone.’
‘Leave her to me. Let me know when Carmino’s team contact the subject in Cassino.’ Marshall terminated the call. He deposited the guard’s cap and red tie in a nearby bin.
He hadn’t seen Teresa Conti in over twenty years. Not since he had sent her away from London. The higher he climbed the promotion ladder in the British Intelligence Service, the more his marriage to an investigative journalist had become a potential liability. Teresa was as ambitious as he was; that was what led her into having the affair. He could never forgive her. It wasn’t her infidelity that was a problem. It was the fact it involved a politician – the most untrustworthy of people. It was no good; she had to go. He hadn’t seen or spoken with her since.
He walked out of the station and got into a white taxi. An Opel Meriva. He directed the driver to Via Margutta, handing him the crash helmet left on the back seat.
Time to face the wrath of his estranged wife.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear





















Timendi causa est nescire …
“Ignorance is the cause of fear …”


Lucius Annaeus Seneca











OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 15


10:00 Wednesday 25 October 2017
Russo’s Apartment, Via Sistina, Rome
Meroni’s instructions had been explicit: check yesterday morning’s ANPR data for the autostrada between Naples and Rome. Then, on the date of the incident in Piazza del Campo, look at cars that had travelled from Naples to Siena.
Russo set about the task at once. Nothing better than a day playing with Automatic Number Plate Recognition systems.
Still, an evening with Gianna Sala awaited.
Despite telling Meroni she had contacted Gambarella’s assistant Lucrezia De Valla, Russo had taken it upon herself to call the police in Siena for further details of their investigation. The detective assigned to the case told Russo that his boss, Inspector Gianna Sala, was travelling to Rome to meet up with Gambarella to go over their respective investigations.
Russo savoured the incandescent thrill of sublime expectation.
The morbid song from Biglietto Per L’Inferno had spooked Meroni. She had a flashback of her father sat in his study whistling along to the flute parts, as he tinkered on his computer. Russo had inherited her father’s love of information technology and his scientific brain, but she had never shared his taste in music. “Ticket to Hell” was a crass overelaboration.
That one was on her.
Back to the ANPR data.
It was routine police work. Meroni suggested that the number plates had been cloned, and the cars driven during the night or early morning. That would limit the number of hits.
Russo worked backwards in time, starting from the discovery of the bodies. She needed viable matches on the autostrada to compare with any municipal CCTV footage. She would check before and after they had deposited the bodies to confirm they had swapped the number plates.
Local police could question the real vehicle owners identified through background checks on the cloned plates.
A nice tidy investigation.
Russo soon found the white Fiat Ducato panel van travelling up the autostrada on the dates in question. Meroni was correct in thinking there was a link to Naples. But he hadn’t considered Caserta, a forty-five-minute drive north up the A1. Another Camorra stronghold.
Caserta CCTV footage showed the van parked regularly outside a nightclub called Il Ragazzo D’Oro. “The Golden Boy.” No doubt, named after Diego Maradona, the Argentine footballer. Neapolitans were so predictable.
She wanted to tell Meroni about the Caserta link; feed him the breadcrumbs, further pique his interest, move him further along the trail. But she was under strict orders. She was to wait and speak with him tomorrow. Unless he was to contact her in the meantime.
Russo turned her thoughts to Gianna Sala.
Time for her morning shower.
She stepped under the cascading water and sang.
Una strana sensazione … 
The song was stuck in her head. 
Russo had a strange feeling. 
A sixth sense. 
Things were about to get even more interesting.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 16


10:55 Wednesday 25 October 2017
Primo Caffè Bar, Cassino
Meroni exited the concourse at Cassino Centrale and walked straight over to the coffee bar in Piazza Giuseppe Garibaldi. He ordered a cappuccino and sat at a table in the far corner. A police officer’s habit. Sitting with an unobstructed view of the entrance door. 
He wanted to phone Gambarella. First, he’d wait for Russo’s ANPR results. She knew the method: phones and cars, overlaying the Automatic Number Plate Recognition system and cell site data to figure out travel routes and potential addresses of interest. The problem was there was no mobile phone information.
On second thoughts, best not to unload on Gamba. Besides, he hadn’t told him he was leaving Rome and, as far as Meroni knew, Gambarella was unaware of his relationship with Teresa Conti. How could he say she had been acting strange this morning? And how could he explain the rogue guard singing a mournful dirge who had disappeared from the train before it started its journey?
It all sounded like a load of nonsense. How could Teresa’s mood and the song be connected? No, he was overthinking, connecting tenuous links in a bunch of random events.
But Meroni didn’t believe in coincidence. Chance was logical. That was what the Dutch footballing genius Johan Cruyff had once said. The mantra had served Meroni well in fighting crime. Something was going on. Two dead bodies. The likelihood of more to come. Both victims were foreigners. Why had they been chosen? They were not called Antonio Pacitto. So why that name? It was not a random choice. Seven people listed as such on the Ellis Island Foundation website who came from Cassino. Meroni was stuck on God’s number. There would be more killings. Then there was the follow outside his apartment. Was there a connection between the murders and his being shot at? Nothing came to mind. Bari had been about a Balkan-based organised crime gang. The Alfa Romeo’s number plate was Neapolitan, and the occupants looked like southerners, although nowadays the lines delineating OCGs were becoming blurred. The Balkan gangs were dangerous. They were giving the Camorra in Campania, the Ndrangheta in Calabria, and the Sicilian Mafia a run for the criminal money. They could have killed him in Bari.
Somebody wanted him alive.
The lion and the unicorn were the link between the Rome and Siena killings and hinted at British involvement. The passenger documents found on the bodies recorded the ships sailed out of Naples to New York. If there was a Neapolitan angle, it could only mean one thing: the Camorra. This wasn’t anything to do with young males called Antonio Pacitto. It was the locations: Cassino and Naples. Meroni figured if the Camorra were involved with the British any collaboration would need sanction from a higher authority. Who? The Mafia … Too old school. New York was a red herring. He was certain this was an arrangement between the European crime agencies and organised criminal gangs on the Neapolitan Riviera, being played outside the mainstream media. He couldn’t get away from the elaboration of the print-at-home passenger records.
Meroni grabbed a copy of La Gazzetta dello Sport from the counter. Yesterday’s edition. The barista raised his chin towards a guy in a business suit at a table nearest the door. The guy caught Meroni’s gaze and offered his paper. Today’s edition. Meroni waved him away. The previous day’s calcio news might reload his brain.
Meroni read the preview for yesterday evening’s Roma game. He had watched the first half of the match live in Franco’s, a sports bar he had discovered when he’d been following Gambarella’s wife around Trastevere, before returning to his apartment to watch the rest of the game. Roma had won away at Milan by two goals to nil. The team was in great form. Next week, in the European Champions League, the Giallorossi were playing Liverpool at Stadio Olimpico. Meroni had two tickets. Russo would have the betting angle. He so craved the normality of a game of football.
He dialled Russo's number. 
‘Meroni, are you alright? I heard about the accident.’
‘Where did you hear about it?’
‘Sorry?’
‘Who told you about the accident?’ Meroni had not mentioned it to her when he had called from Molino.
A pause.
He didn’t like that silence, especially when it was Roberta Russo who was at a loss for words.
‘There’s a cyclist on Twitter who is trying to identify a tall biracial male who crashed his Vespa into a bus on Via Cavour before knocking him off his bike, causing him to sustain a fracture of the elbow. And guess what? He’s really pissed off.’
That was more like Russo.
‘Well, that makes up for my ribs. Although, I think they’re just bruised.’ Meroni sat up in his chair and winced. ‘It only hurts when I move. At least this time the only person throwing Luca Meroni under the bus is his own sad, sweet self.’
‘Are you at Cassino yet, Primo Caffè?’ She knew him too well. ‘Good news, I’ve got the white van, a Fiat Ducato, which travels up the A1, on the days in question, at the material times. It drives to Siena and Rome and afterwards returns to … Caserta. I haven’t found it in Naples, yet.’
‘What about the registration plates?’
‘In the early hours on the day of the Piazza del Campo incident, it travels up to Siena on cloned plates. The original vehicle is – you guessed it – a Fiat Ducato van registered to a Signor Rolando, who owns a souvenir shop in Via Pantaneto in Siena.’
Meroni considered what Russo had told him. The cloned plates would not trigger an ANPR system alert. These people would not risk getting pulled over by the Polizia Stradale on plates reported stolen from a random vehicle, which would have brought up a flag on the traffic cops’ onboard computer.
‘Which Contrada is that road in?’ asked Meroni.
‘Leocorno. Yes, the unicorn. Get this – a white Fiat Ducato travels up to the capital one week later, on a cloned Roma plate. The registered keeper of the Rome-based Ducato  owns a restaurant on Via Capo d’Africa, the Head of Africa.’
‘Via Capo d’Africa is near to the ring road around the Colosseum. The lion and the unicorn. Everything is pointing to a British connection. This is a very elaborate operation,’ said Meroni.
‘Why would the British be involved in the death of two young men in Italy?’
‘No idea. But I don’t think they are working alone, Russo. Could you remind me of the motto on the British coat of arms?’
A flurry of keyboard clicks. ‘Dieu et Mon Droit – God and My Right.’
‘It’s the God number that bothers me. Seven. We’re only at body number two.’
‘Meroni, do you actually believe there will be seven murders?’
‘I can’t help but think there will be more killings. How many others have been given their ticket to hell? Christ, that vanishing train guard has unnerved me with his hippy song.’
‘The Biglietto Per L’Inferno album is a forgotten progressive rock classic.’
‘It should have remained that way …’
‘Heathen,’ said Russo.
The guy in the business suit approached Meroni. He placed his folded copy of La Gazzetta dello Sport on the table and tapped at the front page. ‘Prego.’
Meroni opened the paper and saw letters from the headlines circled in red pen.
Before he could catch a clear glimpse of his face, the man exited the bar. 
‘Russo, are you any good at anagrams?’
More clicks at her end. ‘Yes, but I know a program that can work the magic much quicker than me.’
‘If you’re ready, enter the following letters,’ Meroni started at the top of the page and read from left to right. It was a logical progression. ‘Okay … C. I. O. C. I. A. R … and another A.’
‘Was the last letter “A”?’
‘Yes, but there should be another “I” before that …’
‘Have you figured out the anagram already? If you don’t need my expert help, why ask in the first place?’
Meroni ignored Russo’s acerbic comments. His eyes scanned the page. ‘There must be a third “I” …’ He ended the call and left a five-euro note on the table.
The barista nodded towards the train station. 
Meroni dashed from the bar and sped across the piazza.
Entering the station concourse, he watched the Trenitalia carriages disappear into the distance.
Meroni looked up at the departure board.
The last train to leave Cassino Centrale was bound for Naples.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 17


11:10 Wednesday 25 October 2017
Stazione Cassino Centrale, Frosinone
As the train pulled out of the station, he resisted the temptation to wave. He allowed himself a wry smile for a job well done. They had sparked Meroni’s curiosity. One last nudge and he would be on his way to Caserta. Then Naples.
He took out his mobile phone and dialled.
‘This is Marshall,’ said the voice at the other end.
‘John Bull …’
‘Successful contact at Cassino?’
‘Yes.’
‘Have we deposited the asset at his mother’s home?’
‘We have.’
‘Over to Carmino now. Keep a respectful distance.’
‘Time for a change of outfit, sir?’
‘For now, yes … We need to maintain a close eye on Meroni.’
He pocketed his mobile phone and sat back in his seat. He shared the Commander’s mistrust of the Camorra. You keep your enemies close. There was a greater cause.
The girl sitting opposite him glanced up at the luggage rack.
He took in her provocative dress, the heavy makeup, the over-powering scent of the cheap perfume. Her appearance resembled that of a dancer, or a prostitute. The black shadows under her eyes showed an attention to detail.
He stood up and patted the suitcase. ‘Caserta?’
The girl stopped flicking through the celebrity magazine she was pretending to read. ‘Certo.’ A monosyllabic answer, followed by a yawn. She popped some gum and returned to her reading, bored with the conversation. Full character mode.
In this job, you kept your real friends closer still.
He took the suitcase and headed further up the carriage to find a toilet to change in. To keep track of Meroni and a wary eye on the Camorra, he would need a change of identity. For now, the Englishman would disappear.
Time to stop playing at James Bond.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 18


11:11 Wednesday 25 October 2017
Piazza Garibaldi, Cassino
Meroni slapped his thigh with the sports paper. His phone rang. It was Russo.
‘What happened?’
‘There was a man in the bar …’
‘This is no time for jokes.’
‘It’s not a joke, Russo. The guy who handed me the annotated La Gazzetta dello Sport was in the sandwich bar opposite the Questura, yesterday.’
‘How do you know it was the same guy?’
‘I don’t believe in coincidence. There are far too many weird things going on.’
‘Are you sure you’re not being paranoid? Now, this anagram. The program I use just kept bringing up the same word: Ciociaria. If there was a third “I”, as you said. But you seem to have figured it out already.’
Meroni told her how the letters circled on the page were to be read in chronological order. Except the third “I” was missing. It made no difference. There was no anagram. It was a deliberate reference. ‘The letters spell out “Ciociaria” – it’s where I am. Right here, right now.’             
‘I thought you were in Cassino.’
‘Ciociaria is another name for the Frosinone region. It’s a colloquial term for the entire area reinvented by the Fascists back in the days of dear old Mussolini.’
Meroni heard the clicking of Russo’s keyboard. ‘So, what is it about this Ciociaria? I’m looking it up on Google as we speak. I’m totally ignorant about you southerners and your peasant ways.’
‘What is any of this about, Russo? Two dead bodies, somebody shooting at me in the middle of a street market, a white Fiat Ducato van travelling up and down the Autostrada del Sole on false plates, an unknown guy following me into coffee bars and leaving a not so cryptic message on the front page of La Gazzetta. What’s the connection? Too many unexplained coincidences. Not to mention your prog-rock song … Have I bought a ticket to hell, or am I going crazy?’
‘Is that a rhetorical question?’ asked Russo.
‘I don’t like it.’ Meroni stroked the stubble on his chin. He needed more than a bath and a shave. He needed to cleanse his body, soul, and mind. He didn’t need this. Not now. But he felt himself being drawn into the investigation. It was in his DNA. He was a detective. This was what he did. He had no choice. He felt the compulsion, the pull. But he was exhausted. And still so fucking angry about Bari.
‘I checked the ANPR photos of the van …’
Like Gambarella, she was dragging him back into the game.
‘… it’s a plain white Fiat Ducato, with no sign-writing or livery. But of special interest, is the distinctive item on the dashboard which is visible in all the ANPR images.’
‘Surely the pixelation would make it unrecognisable?’
‘Not quite. It’s a plastic footballer – you know, the little figurines with the enormous head. The big black hair gives him away.’
‘Maradona.’
‘Corretto. The one and only, Diego Armando Maradona.’
‘Another Naples connection. The guy in the suit caught the train to Napoli.’
‘Or Caserta. The train from Cassino stops at Caserta on the way to Naples. ANPR says the van stopped in Caserta.’
‘Have you checked their CCTV?’
‘I’m on it, detective.’
Meroni caught the tone in her voice. Russo was in a playful mood, clearly looking forward to meeting up for dinner with the detective from Siena. ‘I will need you to be at your best tomorrow. This thing needs sorting out, there are a couple of loose ends. Even if we are not getting involved in the investigation and just passing the information to Gambarella.’
‘No worries. I’ll be a good girl. I Promise.’
That was what worried him.


The driver knew where to take him. Bar Rosetta was in the small town of Sant’Elia Fiumerapido, little more than a ten-minute drive from Cassino. Meroni’s mother ran a profitable business.
Meroni loved the bar. As a boy, he had listened to the men talking. He was no scholar, but through listening to their stories, he’d learned about life. He would hear them gossip over a game of cards or dominoes. Today, their conversations would be inappropriate. Not back then. Things were different. The punters in Bar Rosetta didn’t always play by the rules, but they weren’t malicious – although that would depend on your own moral compass. Meroni had dealt with criminality, which went beyond most people’s understanding of right and wrong; so, all the bar talk of petty villainy, adulterous liaisons, and boisterous bluster, took on a nostalgic hue of innocent indulgence.
In the summer months, war veterans from around the world, men who had fought at the Battle of Monte Cassino, came to Italy to honour their dead comrades. The cemeteries, built on the slopes leading up to Saint Benedict’s Abbey, became the last resting place for the boys who had never got to leave. Talk amongst the old men was different. No boasting or bragging. No bravado. They spoke of camaraderie and told anodyne stories about the brutality of the Italy Campaign. When the wine was flowing, they sang a song about the D-Day Dodgers and told fond jokes about their fallen colleagues. They didn’t talk about the genuine horrors of the war.
Meroni spoke English. His mother had encouraged him to speak his father’s language as a young boy. However, he often struggled to comprehend the men’s conversations, especially the military jargon. But he understood the veterans were the lucky ones. The fallen comrades had taken what they called the “King’s Shilling” and received a one-way ticket to an Italian hell.
As they neared Sant’Elia, the driver wanted to talk. ‘How’s your mama?’
Meroni hadn’t seen his mother in a year. She would be angry, especially as he was turning up unannounced.
‘I hear she had some lodgers,’ said the driver.
This wasn’t altogether surprising, since the bar offered year-round accommodation, and his mother owned a rewarding property portfolio. She had made a small fortune renting rooms in Cassino Old Town and the family palazzo to the war veterans on their annual pilgrimage.
‘Somebody told me they were Israeli students completing a thesis on war atrocities.’
‘They came to the right place,’ said Meroni.
‘Their visit had nothing to do with the Battle of Monte Cassino.’ The taxi driver said as he pulled up outside Bar Rosetta. ‘They were most interested in what happened afterwards. The real atrocity. Do you not think it was the worst war crime ever committed – the fact it remained unacknowledged by the Italian authorities and the Allies for so long?’ The driver turned, his face demanding a response in the affirmative.
The last thing Meroni needed was a debate with an angry taxi driver over events that happened some eighty years ago. Things of which he did not know. He thrust a twenty-euro note into the driver’s hand and got out.
It was a chilly afternoon. The outside tables were empty. Meroni turned up his collar and walked inside.
His mother was wiping down tables. Unusual. She normally left the chores to her staff. Two of the locals, men from a bygone age, bored with their card game and gossip, sat at the counter staring into the mirror behind the bar.
All heads turned to Meroni.
His mother stood tall.
‘The prodigal son returns,’ she said.
Meroni walked over to his mother and held her by the wrists. She looked at the floor. He placed a gentle hand under her chin and lifted her face. There were no tears in her eyes. She was too tough for that. He felt a sharp pang of guilt. He noticed the grey in her hair. She was still a beautiful woman, but small telltale signs showed at the corner of her eyes. She looked tired. Meroni felt the lump in his throat. There was no excuse for his extended absence from home. After Bari, there had been no work. Russo was right, he had been selfish and lazy. ‘I’m sorry, Mama. Things have been a bit fucked up.’
Meroni moved quickly to avoid being hit by the damp cloth.
‘Don’t you dare swear in front of your mama, Luca Meroni.’
He grabbed her arms and danced. She was laughing now. He sang the song that had been going round in his head all morning, ‘Una strana sensazione …’
The laughter stopped. His mother pulled away. ‘I’ll get you a coffee.’
Meroni looked at his empty hands and strolled to the counter. The two men nodded in unison. Roberto – older, greyer, but still sporting the same blue vest he had been wearing when Meroni last saw him – shuffled a cigarette out of its carton and held it out. Meroni deferred to the other man, who waved the packet away and banged a fist on his chest.
Meroni took a cigarette and followed Roberto outside and sat at a table. ‘What’s wrong with Amerigo?’
‘Lung cancer.’ Roberto blew his cigarette smoke in the air.
‘Fuck.’
‘What did your mama say about swearing, Luca?’ Roberto pointed an admonishing finger. He chuckled and coughed simultaneously. ‘These bastard things will be the death of me, too.’
‘Maybe if you wore more suitable clothes. Winter is coming.’
‘I’m a hot-blooded southerner, Luca. But your mama tells me the same thing all the time. You’re not the only person she nags.’
‘How is she?’
A shrug of the shoulders met Meroni’s gaze. ‘Cosi-cosi, I think she’s okay; but you should ask her yourself.’
Meroni leaned over to catch the older man’s eye.
Roberto took a long pull on his cigarette and blew the smoke out of his nostrils. ‘How should I know the ins-and-outs of Rosetta’s life? I come to the bar, we talk, we laugh, I drink, I go home. You know how it is.’
‘You come here every day, Roberto. There’s something on her mind.’
‘It’s true. She seems to have been a bit on edge lately. Ever since those students came …’ Roberto waved a hand, as if he were trying to catch this last comment and pull it back into his mouth.
Meroni twirled his cigarette around the ashtray. ‘Tell me about the students, Roberto. My taxi driver told me about some Israelis. Did something happen with them? Are they the cause of Mama’s angst? Did they damage the house, or not pay their bill? The taxi driver also said something about atrocities …’
Roberto held up his hands to fend off the volley of questions.
Rosetta came outside holding a takeaway coffee cup.
‘What are you two talking about?’
‘Nothing.’ Roberto stubbed out his cigarette and walked back into the bar.
Rosetta waved the paper cup in Meroni’s face. ‘Nothing, indeed. Here, I made your favourite. Double-espresso-cappuccino with a dash of Amaretto. Take a slow walk home. Get that filthy Roman air out of your lungs. Smoking is a dirty habit. You didn’t smoke when you played football, so why now?’
Meroni crushed his cigarette in the ashtray.
‘Have an early night, Luca. Get some sleep. You look dreadful. Your eyes are grey. Where is my blue-eyed boy?’ Rosetta’s face betrayed the staccato show of bravado.
Something was bothering her.
‘Go home, Luca. I’ll see you later.’ She kissed her son on both cheeks and pushed him away.
Meroni walked slowly, taking time to acknowledge the people he met on his way, settling into the feel of the place he knew was home. Rome was manic, everybody so affected – and he’d fallen foul of the celebrity wonderment, a glimpse into what he may have had as a calciatore. Dating Teresa Conti had done that. Unfortunately, the glamourous lifestyle hadn’t met his expectations.
Right now, he was craving anonymity. He longed to be anybody other than his present self.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 19


20:00 Wednesday 25 October 2017
Non C’è Trippa Per Gatti, Rome
Russo had chosen the restaurant carefully. It was in Via Urbana, tucked quietly away from prying eyes. She had discovered the place soon after enrolling at Sapienza University. One of her student friends worked there, and she always got her meals at a heavy discount, which was good for the expense account. The frescoed walls depicted the highlights of what so-called educated people dismissed as “tourist” Rome. But for Russo, it was the sheer simplicity of the restaurant that appealed to her. The décor and food were not pretentious. The place attracted local businesspeople during the week and families at the weekend. If there was anything fake or pretentious about Gianna Sala, she would soon be called out … Russo would make polite excuses and leave. After she had finished her meal.
When Russo arrived at the restaurant, Gianna Sala was waiting for her. Fashionably late, Russo made a grand play of greeting Marco, cameriere and fellow-student at Sapienza. Russo had calculated her overt display of affection and glanced towards the restaurant’s rear.
It was only a glimpse. But when the middle-aged woman pulled out her hairband and ran her fingers through her hair, it was just as well that Marco was holding on to her, because Russo felt her knees weaken. Sala was hot.
Once she had composed herself, Russo walked over to the table. Gianna Sala stood up and held out her hand. Russo felt strength in the long, slender fingers. They kissed cheeks, and Russo caught the scent of coconut – hotel shower gel. The night brimmed with promise.
Marco came over to take their drinks order. Russo beckoned to Sala, who chose the Nero d’Avola, a dry Sicilian red wine. Russo deferred the food choice to Marco, who announced, a little too dramatically, that the beef with rocket and parmesan was the finest example of typical Roman cuisine. For the Signorina Vegetariana, he recommended the pizza capricciosa, without the ham, as the perfect complement for the wine.
‘Grazie.’ Russo handed her menu back to Marco with a mocking grin. 
‘How long have you been a vegetarian, Roberta?’ 
‘Since I came to Rome. But it’s not an animal thing, it’s just that I love food and if I ate meat … I’d be the size of a house. That’s the excuse I give, anyway.’
Marco brought over their wine. He uncorked the bottle and poured a small measure into Russo’s glass. She took a sip and tilted her head. ‘Perfetto.’
‘How has it been, working with Meroni?’ asked Sala, taking up her wineglass.
That must have been a world record. Less than sixty seconds. Russo bristled. It was always about Meroni. She toyed with her cutlery. ‘We make an excellent team.’
Russo regarded Sala over her wineglass. She loved the hair: mousy-blonde, shoulder-length, straight. It was an expensive cut. The jacket, the V-necked jumper and denim jeans were a bit too CSI Miami, but the overall impression was of a strong woman. A woman in control.
‘Il merlo … how is Meroni coping with the homophobia at the Questura? I hear he knows it was this Crisanti character who shared the video with the rest of the office.’
‘Yes, Investigatore Crisanti is acting the complete arsehole of a police officer; he’s not a team player and doesn’t give a fuck about anybody other than himself. Meroni has taken it badly. The problem is, he hasn’t been back to the Questura since Bari, so he cannot put a stop to things. Word gets back to him – I think it’s Gambarella’s personal assistant De Valla who is his source.’
‘Why doesn’t Gambarella step in? He’s the boss.’
Russo leaned across the table. ‘I think Crisanti has something on him. But I’m not close enough to pinpoint what it may be, and Meroni has never talked openly about his love life. That's the main reason the homophobia is going unchecked. You and I know he has a strong preference for high-maintenance, middle-aged women: Teresa Conti and Gaetana Ragallo, to name but two. But he keeps the relationships secret.’
Sala raised her eyebrows. ‘He’s incorrigible … is that Teresa Conti the RaiNews reporter?’
Russo nodded.
‘Now she is hot.’
The throwaway comment tended to confirm what Russo had suspected. Gianna Sala was on the same page as her, in a manner of speaking. She hoped it wasn’t just the wine going to her head. ‘Yes, I agree with your observation; and Teresa is both a strong and desirable woman … Dangerous combination. The other one, another Roman beauty, is just as formidable. Gaetana Ragallo, is a highflyer in the local government.’
‘Isn’t she the former actress, the daughter of the filmmaker, Mario Ragallo who was shot dead in Piazza Navona last year?’
‘That’s the one. Now she is running for Mayor of Rome. These older women are Meroni’s poison, they’re what he calls his “violent temptation” – personally, I think these liaisons compromise him. Although now the elections are looming, Ragallo appears to have called off the relationship. Conti is still very much on the scene.’
‘What about his calcio days?’
‘There’s absolutely nothing. I haven’t been able to uncover any videos of him or any newspaper reports of matches he played in for the AS Roma Primavera. Now, there was this guy I met in a bar …’
‘Is this a joke?’
‘Funny you should say that. I met a guy in a bar one evening just after I arrived in Rome. He was called Stefano Abbadelli. He told me he had played with Meroni at the Academy, but they had kicked Abbadelli out of the club when they found out he was gay. Apparently, he had been caught making out with the star player in the youth team. The wonderkid was too good to lose and was kept on. Abbadelli was sent home and forced to sign a non-disclosure agreement. The money the club gave him to keep his mouth shut was used to buy an agriturismo near Sorrento. So much for inclusion and equality back then.’
Sala raised her glass. ‘Salute!’
‘I asked Abbadelli about Meroni’s calcio career and how it all ended. Even though Abbadelli was stoned out of his mind, he refused to disclose any information.’
‘Did you follow this up with anybody else?’
‘I never saw Stefano Abbadelli again. I didn’t find any other person who could tell me anything meaningful about Meroni’s football career. All I know is, because he told me one night after he’d had too many beers, there was an incident on the training field. Meroni was severely injured in a tackle with a player from Argentina. He said this other lad – Leonardo Veron – was better than Maradona.’
‘Is this the wonderkid who was caught with Abbadelli?’
‘I believe so. After the incident with Meroni, Veron became a Catholic Missionary. I was told this part by one of the AS Roma Ultras.’
‘Do you think Abbadelli was suggesting there was something between the Argentine and Meroni?’
‘No, if there were any gay rumours, the hardcore Roma fans would have known about them. Apart from telling me he used to play for the Primavera, and the drunken revelation about his injury, Meroni hasn’t spoken about his calcio career since. I know it’s a deep source of regret. The fact he didn’t achieve his boyhood ambition. Personally, I think his relationships with Conti and Ragallo are his way of touching the life he could have had as a calciatore. This celebrity worship is something he needs help to get over. It is dangerous.’
‘He’s in his thirties. Surely, he is past thinking about what might have been. It’s just football. I hear he’s had a brilliant police career …’
‘You clearly don’t understand. It’s much more than just football. It was everything to him. And his police career? I know he’s tired of the undercover role. I know he wants to return to the Questura, but he is still angry about how Bari was managed and how they nearly got him killed.’
‘You can’t blame him for that,’ Sala said, pouring more wine into Russo’s glass.
‘He needs to move out of the shadows. That beautiful face can’t stay hidden any longer.’
‘You like him.’
‘He’s a good guy. And if I were that way inclined, I would be interested.’
‘You’ve got too close. You need to be careful. Now, enough about Meroni. Tell me all about Roberta Russo …’


When she woke the next morning, Russo realised that had been the tipping point. Tell me all about Roberta Russo. Sala had asked lots of questions, and the more wine Russo drank, the more she had let her guard down. Amateurish. She had no memory of leaving the restaurant, of how they had got back to her apartment, and how she had ended up naked in bed. She pressed the heels of her hands hard against her eyes and banged her forehead with her fists. How many bottles of wine did they drink? Correction, did she drink? Because Russo didn’t remember Gianna Sala drinking much at all. The CSI Miami jacket had stayed on throughout the entire meal. Russo assumed this was on account of Sala carrying her gun. Now she realised this was another clue to Sala’s total control of the situation. Russo leant over and pulled open the drawer to her bedside cabinet. She felt inside and found her favourite toy wedged underneath her diary at the back. It had not been out to play and that set alarm bells ringing. For Russo, drunken sex meant that certain pleasures would not have stayed hidden.
She jumped out of bed and walked about the apartment. Two days ago, she had purged the place. It was immaculate. But now there was another smell. The unmistakable odour of alcohol-based sanitiser. Russo sat at her desk and hit “Return” on her keyboard. No response. Russo never switched her computer off. She always had a software program working away in the background: an important update, a total system check, a virus scan, or bitcoins being harvested. But Gianna Sala’s controlling instincts had got the better of her, and she had turned it off.
After doing what to it?
Russo cursed herself and reached for her mobile phone.
‘Buongiorno, Russo. How are you feeling today?’
‘Marco, what state was I in when I left the restaurant?’
‘You were tipsy, but you were having a fun time. A little unsteady on your feet, but I’ve seen you in worse condition. Who was that woman you were with?’
‘Why do you ask?’
‘Because she hardly touched her food or drink. And she kept wiping the wine bottle after she poured you a glass. Every time, she wiped at it with her napkin, to remove her fingerprints … like she was a spy or something.’
Russo shook her head. Why hadn’t she noticed? Too busy thinking about sex …
‘Are you coming to that lecture on quantum computing today?’
‘I don’t think so, Marco. I’ve got a cracking headache. Thanks for everything, ciao.’
Russo hung up and walked into the kitchen. Nothing appeared out of place. No glasses, no empty bottles. But again, that same sterile, alcohol-based smell.
Russo powered on her computer.
Then she sent a text to Meroni: Be Careful.
Her head felt thick, and her brain was heavy.
Christ, she shouldn’t have sent Meroni that text. She was under strict orders not to instigate contact.
Russo clicked the Toro icon on the screen. The rampant bull symbol of her beloved football club. She looked up at the FC Torino pennant that hung on the wall above her desktop. Sala would have covered up the webcam built into the computer monitor, but she didn’t know about the camera hidden in the screw head that held the cord from which the pennant hung. And she wouldn’t have thought anything of the Toro icon which disguised the CCTV camera program. Sala would have ignored it. Just football.
Russo reviewed the digital camera footage. At 03:15, the image of Gianna Sala confronted her. Sala’s face was a study in concentration as she read the contents of the screen.
Bitch.
Russo worked at the keyboard to bring up her search engine.
Nothing. The search engine was gone. Sala had wiped the computer clean of everything to do with Meroni and the operation.
Russo switched back to the camera footage. She saw the Sienese detective take a USB stick from her inside jacket pocket and place it into the hard drive. After downloading the data, Sala wiped down the computer and desk with antiseptic wipes.
Then Gianna Sala had killed Russo’s computer.
Russo cursed. Without her help, Meroni would be a dead man walking.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 20


06:30 Thursday 26 October 2017
Isola Bella, Cassino
The cockerel’s strangled crow woke him. How long had he slept? He grabbed his phone. Over ten hours. He rubbed his eyes with his palms. He couldn’t help but think his mother had laced his coffee with something stronger than Amaretto. Something extra to help him sleep. It had done the trick. He felt good, refreshed. He probed his ribs and took a deep breath. A slight twinge, but nothing broken for sure. He would take a slow jog down to Bar Rosetta. It was a five-kilometre round trip and would give him the perfect opportunity to embrace a new day.
Meroni got up and dressed into gym gear. Despite his extended absence, his mother had laundered and kept his clothes fresh.
Time to reset.
Gambarella and Russo would have to wait.
Everything was on hold.
The ghosts would have to be patient.
In the kitchen, Meroni set the coffeepot on the hob in readiness for his return. He looked around, taking in the familiar surroundings. Nothing had changed. The magnets on the fridge door anchored photographs and tickets from long ago places. He let the memories drift back, smiling at the picture of himself as a boy standing on the Sherman tank in the central piazza in Cassino. Saluting, like a little Americano.
His mother’s laptop was on the dining table. She had left it open. Meroni pressed the “Return” key. The machine whirred back to life. PIN required. He tapped in his mother’s date of birth. The screen displayed a frozen monochrome image of a woman and a teenage girl standing outside a church carrying suitcases on their heads. He touched the cursor pad. At the top of the screen, the movie’s title appeared: Two Women aka La Ciociara.
Ciociara – no third “I”.
Meroni clicked “Play”. The two women entered the bombed-out remains of a church. Sophia Loren played the woman. The young girl lay down to rest and watched birds criss-cross the sky through the battered roof rafters. Sophia Loren dusted at a pew and settled herself to sleep. Then the screen filled with dark, ominous shadows …
Meroni sensed movement behind him.
He glanced over his shoulder.
The intruder wore a face of steel.
The heavy punch that landed on Meroni’s kidney area was fatal to any chance of escape. How had he not seen or heard anybody enter the kitchen? This thought registered in his brain, milliseconds before that first blow struck, which caused the pain in his bruised ribs to reignite and rendered the fight a no-contest. Meroni turned and threw punches – wild, blind, futile swings. The onslaught he received in return told him he faced two attackers. His efforts were pitiful. Two against one – with the added advantage of a free-hit – meant the odds were against him. It was the heavies from the Alfa Romeo. He was certain of it; the ones he had dismissed as amateurs. Meroni hit out again. A primitive form of the survival instinct taking over. A sudden punch to the head sent him sprawling.
Rosetta!
Sophia Loren’s frantic screams pierced the early dawn.
Meroni felt his wrists being bound. A rasping noise preceded searing pain as someone tightened the plastic cable ties, chafing his skin. They placed a hood over him. Powerful arms forced his head down and lifted him to his feet. They pushed him out of the kitchen and frogmarched him around the building to the courtyard.
He heard the metallic squeal and bang of a van’s rear doors opening.
From inside the cab, a familiar refrain.
Una strana sensazione … 
They bundled Meroni inside. Through the coarse material of the hood, he felt the cold metal of the van’s corrugated floor on his face.
There was no way any radio station would play this hippy music.
A CD or download was playing.
A deliberate reference.
This was his ticket to hell.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 21


07:00 Thursday 26 October 2017
Commonwealth War Graves, Cassino
Pitch black. The roar of the engine assaulted his ears as the vehicle drove off at speed, the movement throwing him backwards across the corrugated metal floor. Meroni wriggled onto his back and wedged himself against the rear doors. He listened to the crunch of tyres on gravel. Then they were travelling along a better road surface and a jingle for Radio Kiss-Kiss Napoli was playing from the cab.
It was a small mercy.
Meroni’s brain was on overdrive. The abduction was as calculated as the follow in Rome. He cursed his arrogance. Enough. No time for self-recrimination. The victims had made this journey too. This was the same white panel van. The Fiat Ducato that Russo had tracked on ANPR. Meroni was certain of it. The chances were too logical. He contemplated his fate. He wondered whether death would become him in an iconic piazza, his mutilated body left in full public view before a call was made to the police.
Then he heard a whimper.
Meroni’s blood froze. He held his breath.
A dog had mauled the victims at the Colosseum and Piazza del Campo. But the pathetic sound was almost human.
He braced himself and listened intently.
‘Who’s there?’
No reply.
Meroni called out again. 
Silence.
The van lurched as it turned a corner. It sent Meroni into an uncontrolled spin and he crashed into flailing limbs. He tried to push himself away from the wild, desperate kicks, which wrought all-consuming pain: a blinding ache that started in his genitals, spread to his stomach, and forced the air from his lungs. He turned his body. The feet thrashed out at him again. The next contact was with his kidneys – the same spot where one of the heavies had punched him in the kitchen. Another kick landed on his back, expelling whatever breath he had left from his body. He had to move away. Meroni dragged himself across the metal floor.
Another wave of nausea consumed his being.
He had no choice but to endure it.
Easier said than done.
The sobbing beast emitted a series of brain-jarring screams.
Meroni hollered into the dark.
‘Shut the fuck up!’
A blissful silence.
The van’s speed increased. Meroni guessed they were on the road to Cassino. But where next? Naples. Travelling down the autostrada, Naples was an hour drive. He winced. The agony in his ribs and lower abdomen wouldn’t abate. He tried to breathe normally. He needed to catch his breath, gather his senses. It could be a long journey.
His travelling companion was becoming fractious again. The howls turned to wails. Inhuman. What horrors had they inflicted on him? Meroni prepared himself for a tortuous ride. 
Then a thought struck him. How many others were there?
Please God, not three more.
He yelled out in desperation.
‘Who else is in here?’
Nothing.
Meroni shuffled forward, sweeping out with his legs. Despite the agony limiting the arc of his movement, the foray was successful. A retaliatory flurry of punches and kicks pushed him back against the doors. He had his confirmation. There was just one person.
The third victim.
Or did that number belong to him?
Their journey continued. A controlled turn, followed by an extended run up a straight piece of road. Two hard lefts propelled Meroni into another spin. To save his battered frame from further harm, he lashed out. His left foot connected with something that cracked on impact. A monstrous shriek filled the black void.
Meroni shut his eyes to block out his own pain and the harrowing sound.
The van stopped abruptly, flinging him across the floor.
He listened.
The sound of sobbing, then the crunch of stones.
Meroni heard the clang of heavy gates. Someone flung open the van doors. Light flooded in. He focused on its source and observed the shimmering outline of two bodies through the hood. Arms reached in and dragged him out, pulling him up to his feet before pushing him away from the rear of the vehicle.
Then the sounds of struggle. Shouting in an unfamiliar tongue. The dull thud of punches landing, and a faint mewl.
Meroni stood, bracing himself for punishment. Someone grabbed his shoulders and spun him around. Something cold tapped his arm. It was the barrel of a rifle.
Meroni walked on. His thoughts were racing. This was not how his story ended.
Another tap of the barrel on his elbow.
Turning, Meroni felt the sun’s warmth on his face. He lifted his blind gaze to the sky. The sweat from his brow and laboured breaths dampened the hood, increasing his feeling of claustrophobia. 
Allahu Akbar! Allahu Akbar! Allahu Akbar!
The desperate chants drowned out the report of the rifle.
Then a deathly silence, followed by the splash of a body hitting water.
Meroni fell to his knees and waited for death.


He must have passed out. The next thing he was aware of was the sound of an engine fading into the distance. His heart was beating so fast, he feared it would explode inside his chest. The cold stone against his face and the pain in his wrists told him he was alive.
‘Meroni!’
A familiar voice.
‘Hold still.’
He felt the snap of the cable ties as she cut them from his wrists.
‘Please keep still …’
She removed the hood.
Meroni inhaled, deep gasps.
He looked up and saw the face of an angel.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 22


07:30 Thursday 26 October 2017
Commonwealth War Graves, Cassino
The victim was floating face down. A vaporous trail of blood snaked across the surface of the still waters of the Commonwealth War Memorial. Meroni entered the water and turned the body. Male, dark-skinned, dressed in a tweed jacket and heavy trousers. The same as the others. But his face was untouched; the absence of any trauma meant there was no mistaking his origin. He was of North African descent.
Meroni reached into the inside pocket of the victim’s jacket. He took out a folded piece of paper and shook it. The passenger record was still dry and legible. But something else caught Meroni’s eye. A small cloth target pinned to the victim’s chest: red, white, and blue circles, on the left breast above the heart. This is where the bullet had pierced. Bullseye. There was a handwritten message on the cloth: Honi Soit Qui Mal y Pense. 
Officer Daniela Bianca held out her hand. Meroni handed over the transit document and the cloth target. He pushed down on the concrete edge and lifted himself out of the water. 
‘Do you have a car?’
Bianca nodded. ‘Yes, but what about the body?’
‘Come on. I’ll drive while you call the local police. And tell them to call Inspector Gambarella.’
Meroni led them back to the entrance gates. Nobody else was around. Notwithstanding the heavy crack of the rifle shot, the town, like its war dead, was still sleeping. He stood by the driver’s door of a battered blue Ford Fiesta. ‘Nice wheels.’
‘It gets me from A-to-B. At least from Rome to Cassino, which was lucky for you.’
Bianca pressed on the key fob. The doors clicked open, and Meroni reached over the car roof. 
‘Are you sure you’re fit to drive?’
Meroni took the key. The pain in his kidneys had subsided, but his ribs still hurt like crazy. Fortunately, the Fiesta was an automatic. He took the most direct route back home, noting the contours of the road. No wonder he’d been thrown around like a rag doll.
‘What was the vehicle you followed?’
‘A van.’
Meroni gave Bianca an impatient look. 
‘It was a white Fiat Ducato panel van on Frosinone plates. Two males, Caucasian, heavy-set. They looked like southerners.’
‘You’re in southern Italy.’
‘Further south – Neapolitans.’
‘Did you notice anything on the dashboard?’
‘No, I was behind it all the way. I followed them into the cemetery on foot and hid behind a tree. I was watching what was happening with you and didn’t look again at the van until it drove off.’
‘Did you take a note of the registration number?’
‘No …’
Why hadn’t she done that? Basic policing. No matter. It had to be the same van. Again, they had cloned local plates. Meroni had been the honorary guest at the scene of the third murder. The reason for the killings remained a mystery. But someone had followed him back home to Cassino. Meroni now knew he was implicitly involved in whatever was going on.
‘What does the passenger record say?’
Bianca unfolded the paper and held it up. A yellow patterned sheet of A4, edged in filigree green, with a watermark that read: “Sample”. ‘It says … Antonio Pacitto, date of arrival … 6 July 1920 … ship of travel Regina d’Italia from Naples.’
‘What was their last place of residence?’ asked Meroni.
‘Let me see, Cassino … Caserta.’
‘Which one, Bianca?’
‘Both. It says Cassino and Caserta.’
He knew where the trail was leading next. Russo had been right about Caserta. He should never have doubted her.
‘How come you’re here?’
‘Why, thanks Meroni. It’s good to see you too!’ Bianca ran an agitated hand through her hair; she glared at him and an expletive fell from her lips. ‘You are priceless. I just saved your …’
‘My life?’ Meroni interrupted. ‘You pitched up after the shooting … you watched them take me out of the van and march me towards the memorial. They had rifles, I could have been shot!’ Meroni checked himself. He was being too harsh on her. ‘Sorry, I’m grateful you showed up. But how come you are here? When I’m trussed up in the middle of a war cemetery, next to a floating corpse, you just happen to be there. My very own angel of mercy. I’m listening, Daniela.’
‘Gambarella asked me to follow you.’
‘Gamba asked a rookie cop, still in uniform, with no detective skills, to follow me. For what reason?’ Meroni wasn’t buying it. Why would Gambarella have tasked Bianca? If the boss had wanted him followed, he would have deployed an undercover officer from a team based outside of Rome to do it.
‘Less of the rookie crap, okay? I know what I want. I told Inspector Gambarella ages ago that I wanted to be a detective. Prove it, he said. Find Meroni and bring him back here … Then, he might consider my detective application. So, Gamba had your phone traced and here I am. This morning, I was outside your house, parked up in the little gravel courtyard. I was asleep in my car when those guys came for you.’
Her explanation didn’t stack up. He had turned off the location services on his mobile phone. Did that mean Gambarella had asked for a cell site analysis to track him? Why would he have done that? Whenever Meroni went AWOL, he went home to Cassino. Gamba knew that. Bianca’s story was bollocks.
‘And the two heavies didn’t see you?’
‘When I saw them leaving the house, I hid in an outbuilding. It was full of musty, old wine barrels. After the van had driven off, I got in my car to follow. Your mother chased after me. She was shouting at me. I didn’t know whether she was angry or scared.’
‘Why didn’t you stop? I don’t understand. Why did you leave her? She could have been in danger.’
‘She came out of the house with them. She did nothing to stop them taking you. She only became anxious after she saw me.’
‘That was because she was frightened,’ said Meroni.
Bianca slapped her thigh. ‘No! She spoke to them. After they put you in the van. I remember, the one with the bald head – he hugged her. It seemed he was consoling her. It was like she knew him. She knew the situation!’
This made little sense. How was his mother involved? ‘I swear, Bianca, if you’re shitting me …’
‘I’m not, Meroni. Honestly, I couldn’t believe it myself. Look, this may sound corny, but I sensed something bad was going down with the murder at the Colosseum. That’s why I went to Gambarella. He sensed it too.’
Meroni glanced across at her. ‘Sensed what, exactly?’
‘That there was something about the murders.’
‘Of course, there’s something! Three men are dead. All killed in bizarre circumstances. At this stage of the investigation, there is no reasonable explanation for their deaths. So, what else do you sense, Officer Bianca?’
‘Why are you beating on me? I know I’ve got what it takes to be an investigator. But if this is how it is, with old sweats like you trying to fuck me over, give me back my uniform. Let me spend all day dressed up like a circus clown, pointing out directions to tourists in Piazza Navona. I’m done with all this.’
‘What did you tell your boyfriend?’
‘Sorry?’ She turned to face him.
‘I’m curious, Bianca. You take a little trip down to Cassino, sanctioned by Gambarella, and you turn up all alone. Brave girl. What happened to the boyfriend?’ 
‘That’s enough. Just drive back to Sant’Elia. Do your own thing. I’ll head back to Rome. Let’s just forget that you were cable-tied and blindfolded, with a dead body floating about in that War Memorial. I should have left you to answer to the Polizia Locale and Carabinieri. You ungrateful shit!’
Meroni put his foot down hard on the accelerator, causing Bianca to be flung back into her seat. He drove like a demon possessed. His head was full of unanswered questions. Bianca was way too feisty, too pushy, and overfamiliar. All the questions he’d asked about her “boyfriend” were crass. So were her vacuous answers. They were even on that score. No, something wasn’t right. He did not know what. But he knew one thing for certain. He didn’t need Officer Daniela Bianca for a guardian angel.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 23


08:15 Thursday 26 October 2017
Isola Bella, Cassino
Meroni moved his bed away from the wall. He took a screwdriver and scraped at the thin layer of cement that surrounded the brick, which concealed a basic, SIM only, unregistered mobile phone. The Camorristi – he was now certain that he was dealing with the Neapolitan Mafia – had not taken his phone. He had returned to find it on the kitchen table where he had left it. Why? It was likely the phone was now being tracked. Meroni was prepared for such eventualities. Hence, the hidden burner phone. 
He had asked Bianca to wait in her car. She had done enough snooping for one day. After the events of this morning, he was thankful she’d followed him down to Cassino. But he didn’t buy the claim she was here on Gamba’s orders, or to further her detective career.
Meroni changed into dry clothes and looked from his bedroom window out to the small gravel courtyard. Bianca was talking on her mobile phone, fixing her hair in the rearview mirror of the Fiesta. He wondered how she had squared her little adventure with the boyfriend she was so fond of. If he even existed.
While Bianca was preening herself, Meroni snuck out of his bedroom. His mother still lived in the same rooms of the palazzo the family had owned since the war. The kitchen, and main bedroom with ensuite facilities – a recent addition – were in the northern wing of the old palazzo. His bedroom was on the west side. To reach the kitchen, one walked through the courtyard, then around the building. Space was never an issue. Meroni’s father had never been a regular part of their lives, indeed he hadn’t seen him in over twelve years, and although his mother owned newer properties in Sant’Elia and Cassino, she had never wanted to leave the family home.
He looked across the small valley to the church of Santa Maria del Carmine. The bells tolled. Twice in the space of twenty-four hours he had dodged a bullet. Meroni sensed he was living on borrowed time.
He turned on the burner phone. Despite not being used in months, the battery showed a 10% charge, sufficient for a couple of quick calls to his two stored numbers.
Meroni stepped outside and peered up the path. There was no sign of Bianca.
‘Pronto. Who is this?’
‘Gamba, I need you to listen.’
‘What number are you calling from?’
‘My phone got stolen … the Camorra abducted me. Don’t worry, I’ll explain everything later. But there’s a third body. The same as before: North African male – the ethnicity is confirmed – dressed in old-fashioned clothes, passenger record in the name of Antonio Pacitto, et cetera. The shooting took place this morning at the Commonwealth War Memorial in the shadow of Monte Cassino. This is significant. The lion in Rome, the unicorn in Siena. Now, a small piece of cloth with an RAF roundel was pinned to the chest of the third victim, with a motto: Honi Soit Qui Mal y Pense – Shame on him who thinks evil of it. Gamba, I’m telling you, the British are heavily involved in whatever is going on.’ 
Gambarella made a choking noise at the end of the phone. ‘The British! Meroni, what do you mean? Yesterday, we had Sherlock Holmes and the Hound of the Baskervilles. Now, you’ve swallowed a Latin phrasebook and making this sound like a James Bond film!’
‘Don’t mock me, Gamba. There is a deeper meaning. And my mother knows all about it.’
‘Your mother – what the fuck does she know?’
‘She was there when they abducted me. Bianca saw her with the two Camorristi.’
‘Are you saying the Camorra is involved too?’
‘Yes, I’m sure they are the same men who were following me in an Alfa Romeo when I was shot at on my Vespa.’
‘Wait, when were you shot at? You said you’d had an accident. And did you say Bianca – what’s she doing there? Meroni, this time you have overstepped the mark. She’s too young in service. She hasn’t even put in her detective application yet. She’s impressionable. You’re abusing your position.’
‘She said you agreed to her coming, that it was an opportunity to prove herself.’
‘She never spoke to me about any of this,’ said Gambarella.
Meroni heard the click-click of the Inspector’s cigarette lighter.
What was Bianca playing at?
Meroni described to Gambarella how the Camorristi had followed him in the Alfa Romeo, how the bullet had pierced the petrol tank of his scooter. He told him about the attack this morning, the third victim in the back of the van, how he’d heard the rifle shot, followed by the body falling into the water. Then Bianca had rescued him.
Somebody wanted him alive.
‘I asked her to call the local police while I got my stuff together. She’s in her car now.’ Meroni glanced back up the path to check she hadn’t got out. 
‘Okay, Meroni. I’ll check in with the police in Cassino and make sure she called it in. And I’ll put in a call to the Carabinieri. If the British are involved, Special Operations must know what’s going on. Because I sure as hell don’t.’ 
Meroni couldn’t believe Gambarella hadn’t contacted the Carabinieri Special Operations Group yet. He wondered if personal problems were getting the better of Gamba’s common sense and sound judgement. 
‘There’s also a link to Caserta. This latest Antonio Pacitto had both Cassino and Caserta listed as his place of residence on the passenger record. I’ll get Russo on the ANPR and see if she can find the white Fiat Ducato van travelling north on Frosinone plates and returning south this morning.’
‘Sounds like a plan. Shall I alert the police in Caserta?’
‘No, not yet. You’ve got this new number. I’ll keep the location services turned on so you can keep track of me. If I’m moving, you’ll know I’m all right.’
Gambarella coughed down the phone. ‘These blasted Camel cigarettes! Keep your eye on Bianca. Don’t send her back. I don’t know what she thinks she’s playing at, and she doesn’t know what she’s getting herself involved in, but I need eyes on you. Take care of her, Meroni, and I’ll deal with the disciplinary matter when she gets back to Rome.’
Meroni terminated the call. He dialled Russo. He knew she would be wary of an unrecognised number. So, he let it ring three times, hung up, and then dialled again. He glanced back up towards the courtyard.
Come on Russo, pick up … 
‘At last! Russo, listen …’
‘No, you listen! Where have you been? What’s this number you’re calling from? I sent a text to your mobile earlier.’
‘I ran into the two guys in the Alfa Romeo again. They’ve got my mobile.’ He had already lied to Gambarella about his mobile phone being stolen.
‘Shit … I’m sorry, Meroni. I had a heavy night.’
‘I hoped you enjoyed yourself.’ There was no response. He didn’t like that silence, but he knew better than to delve into Russo’s private life without a prior invitation. ‘Listen, I’ve got to get going to Caserta soon. I’m with Bianca – a rookie police officer. She was at the Colosseum yesterday on scene guard. Heaven knows what she’s doing here. Could you dig deep on her – phones, addresses, social media, anything you can get? Then, look for a white Fiat Ducato van heading towards Caserta on the autostrada around 07:30 hours this morning. It will be on Frosinone plates. There is a third body. This morning, in Cassino. A North African male wearing peasant clothes and carrying an Antony Pacitto passenger record.’
‘What happened?’
‘No time, Russo. But we’ve got to be careful. Gambarella is claiming ignorance on lots of things to do with this investigation. I’m not buying any of it. But I’ve been dragged in against my will.’ He heard a car door slam. ‘We’ll talk later. But you were right about Caserta.’
Meroni pocketed the burner phone just as Bianca walked around the corner.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 24


09:00 Thursday 26 October 2017
Bar Rosetta, Sant' Elia Fiumerapido, Cassino
Meroni entered. The ever-present Roberto stood at the counter, nursing his morning coffee. The older man gave a backward nod of his head to indicate Rosetta’s whereabouts.
Bianca had followed him inside. Meroni pointed to the counter. ‘Wait there.’
His mother was sitting at a table surrounded by paperwork. She closed the lid of her laptop and gazed at her son over the rims of her glasses. 
Meroni stood opposite, his hands holding the back of a chair.
Rosetta Meroni removed her glasses and ran manicured fingers through her raven hair. She was wearing a fitted white shirt and black-coated jeans. The grey hair and fault lines around her eyes were gone. She looked twenty years younger.
‘I have a few questions, Mama.’ Meroni pulled out the chair, spun it round, and sat astride the seat with his arms resting on the top rail.
‘Is this an interrogation?’
The brusqueness in her voice told him she was on the defensive. 
‘No, Mama. But I have some questions.’
‘Fire away.’ She crossed her arms.
Meroni smirked at the irony of her remark. ‘You had three Israeli students staying here, completing their thesis on war crimes. This morning, I was abducted from our home. You watched the Camorristi put me in a van. There was another male in the back. They shot him dead. Was he one of the Israeli students?’
She uncrossed her arms and folded her glasses; then smiled and traced a contemplative red fingernail across the tabletop.
‘I think I need a coffee,’ she said.
Meroni held up a hand. ‘Don’t move. Hey, Roberto?’ he called over his shoulder. ‘Two espressos over here, please.’ 
Rosetta shuffled her paperwork into a neat pile on her laptop. She then put the designer glasses in their case and placed this on top of the papers. Compulsive behaviour. Meroni knew where he got his obsessiveness from. Meroni considered his mother’s profile as she looked out to the Comune di Sant’Elia. She stared at the town hall building and shook her head as if determined to ignore her son’s gaze.
Bianca walked over with two espresso cups. A barista and wannabe detective. Too pushy. Too overfamiliar.
Meroni waited for Bianca to take her leave.
‘No, she can stay, Luca. Nothing I have to say is a secret.’ Rosetta stirred her coffee. ‘You don’t know what you are dealing with.’
‘Which is why I am asking you to enlighten me, Mama.’
‘You’ve always been different, Luca. It’s not just your looks. It’s everything. The way you think, how you act, the things you say. You know, I don’t think we have ever had a serious conversation. We were never that close. Not your typical mother-and-son relationship, which is strange considering you are an only child. But do you know why we were not close?’ 
Meroni remained silent.
‘Because you are too much like your father. Just like him, you never listened to me. As a young boy, right until you left school, it was football, football, football. At AS Roma Primavera – it was all football, naturally. Then you had your accident …’ She paused. This was how she had always referred to the crippling injury that ended Meroni’s calcio dreams. ‘You were eighteen years old, living in Rome. Living the high life, I suspect. And then, after the accident, you got it into your head to join the police. Leaving me here, to manage the business. The same as your father did all those years ago. He had his career – and I didn’t matter. Everything I had set up – the bar, the properties, everything – I did it all for you, Luca. And you didn’t see it. I understand. Things were difficult for you when you were young. People are not worldly round here.’ She waved a hand in Roberto’s direction. ‘They are not like your cosmopolitan Romans. No, life here is different. A tall, skinny, half-Black kid with blue eyes, living in a southern town in Italy which was still struggling to rebuild a sense of purpose and identity after all these years – you were always going to stand out. I’m sorry … it’s not all your fault. I have not been a good mother.’ There were tears in her eyes and the hard lips trembled.
Meroni reached out for his mother’s hand.
She snatched it away. ‘No, Luca. It’s true. I couldn’t focus on anything other than my own issues. A single mother, busy raising her beloved son in this shithole of a place, facing the looks of disgust as I walked with you through the streets. It’s my hometown, but I was treated like an outsider. The problem was …’ Rosetta gave a deep sigh. ‘The problem was you reminded people of the atrocities. And all the old hatred came back out again. The bitterness toward what happened after the Battle of Monte Cassino. They denied the people of Ciociaria justice. And the authorities and historians still deny it to this day. After the war, they denied all of us who suffered at the hands of the Fascists and Nazi occupiers, whose fathers and grandfathers, husbands, sons, wives, and daughters were executed for being a part of the Italian resistance against Mussolini and Hitler. They turned their back on the people who had endured the Allied bombing that tore the heart out of the old town of Cassino, reducing the buildings, and Saint Benedict’s Abbey to rubble. They said we couldn’t have suffered any more than we already had. So, they airbrushed the genuine horror of the war from history and have refused to acknowledge it ever since.’ Rosetta slapped the table.
Meroni had never seen his mother so animated. 
‘I’ve been living in denial my entire life … I hid the true story from you. I protected you from all the ignorance. When you went off to Rome, to the Primavera, I waved you off at the train station. I hoped you would escape this place forever, or at least until such time as you were a famous calciatore and then you could return a hero, and people wouldn’t care what colour you were.’
Meroni lowered his eyes to the table. His mother’s words were as fatal as a sniper’s bullet tearing through his heart. ‘What have these wartime atrocities got to do with me? That film – Two Women – the one you had on your laptop this morning; that was for me to see, wasn’t it? Because despite being preoccupied with trying to fight off two Camorristi, I heard Sophia Loren screaming out your name. What’s this all about, Mama? I need to know.’ 
‘The truth. It’s all about the truth, Luca. Truth and ignorance … that word again – ignorance. It is the cause of all our fears. And now you know everything.’ She waved a dismissive hand.
‘Know what, Mama? I know nothing. Please stop being so cryptic. I don’t need a history lesson. I want to know the truth about this morning, about what happened to the boy at the Colosseum and the one in Siena too.’
Another shake of her head. ‘Cryptic? Oh, Luca … It’s not for me to tell you the truth. You need to speak with your …’ Rosetta put her hand to her mouth.
Meroni stared at his mother. He shot a glance at Bianca, who diverted her eyes to the floor. ‘Speak with who? My boss? What does Gambarella know?’
‘I’ve said too much already.’ Rosetta stood up.
Meroni grabbed her by the wrist. ‘You haven’t told me anything. What about the Israeli students? Where do they come into it?’
Rosetta looked down on him. ‘That stupid taxi driver didn’t know what he was talking about. He’s another of the ignorant bastards around here who busy themselves with rumour and old superstition.’
‘Roberto mentioned the students, too. Did he not understand what he was saying, either? I’m asking you again, Mama. The boy they shot this morning – who was he?’
Rosetta snatched her wrist free. ‘I don’t know who he was, Luca.’ She reached out to touch his face, but at the last moment drew back her hands and thrust them into the pockets of her jeans. ‘The one thing I know is they were not from Israel. I’ve said enough. Now you need to go … First, to Castro dei Volsci. Then, Naples.’
Meroni shook his head. Castro dei Volsci. He’d been there once, years ago, to play football with the Cassino youth team. He knew nothing about the place other than it was a small hilltop commune fifty-five kilometres north of Sant’Elia.
Rosetta lifted his chin.
‘Yes, go to these places. Then maybe you will learn all about your history … and you will uncover the truth.’

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear



















For Deborah



OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 25


11:00 Thursday 26 October 2017
Il Monumento alla Ciociara
Bianca drove. The journey took them up the autostrada, north towards Rome. His mother’s first instruction was leading away from where Meroni suspected he would find any answers. This was not only a criminal investigation; it was a history lesson. An awakening. Of course, he knew about the Battle of Monte Cassino. They had rebuilt his hometown from the raw memory of its destruction. He thought about the cemeteries, the Commonwealth Memorial, the veteran soldiers on their annual pilgrimage to honour the fallen, and the old tanks in the piazza opposite the municipal offices. Yet, he was ignorant of the atrocities that people alluded to. Why did everyone else know about them? What was so bad that his straight-talking mother had seen fit to keep this a secret from him his whole life?
They drove in silence.
Meroni reflected on his police career. The undercover stuff had not worked out as expected. Worse, he had become arrogant, absorbed in his own sense of self-importance. He was playing a stock part with Russo in the cameo role of sidekick. It was the stuff of box sets and Cinecittà B-movies, not real policing. The designer bachelor pad was a sterile retreat. The middle-aged lovers were a distraction from reality. Meroni had been running away from violent temptations his entire life. The moment called for confronting harsh truths. This investigation had a strong connection to his past. They had spared him the bullet on two occasions. He would use the borrowed time to rediscover himself.
He glanced across at Bianca. In fairness, she appreciated his need for quiet and had given him the space for reflection on the journey. She sensed his gaze and offered a rueful smile. 
‘How come you followed me here, Bianca?’
‘I told you; Gamba sent me.’
‘I’ve spoken to Inspector Gambarella. He told me he didn’t.’
Bianca’s smile vanished.
‘How did you know I was back in Cassino? At my mother’s house? And how did you happen to be sitting in your Ford Fiesta outside my bedroom this morning when it all kicked off?’ 
‘Multiple questions?’ She paused, waiting for his response, but Meroni remained silent. ‘Do you want the actual truth?’
‘Nothing but the truth, Bianca.’
‘Okay …’
Not a good start. Anything that came after but was bullshit. Whatever followed okay was not that far removed from the brown stuff, either. Bianca had bought more than enough time already to get her facts straight.
‘Okay, I overheard Gambarella in his office. I had gone to see him to request a secondment to the investigations team – after speaking with you at the bar. It made my mind up. The door to his office was open, and he was speaking on the phone. He was saying you had gone to Cassino. Back to your hometown – you told me that Cassino was your hometown in La Gatta Curiosa yesterday. I heard him say your mother owned a bar in Sant’Elia Fiumerapido.’
Gamba’s got loose lips, thought Meroni. But the boss had acted surprised when he had told him he was in Cassino earlier. Somebody was bullshitting him. ‘Who was Gambarella speaking with?’
‘No idea; but the conversation turned to the Colosseum, and he mentioned Siena too. I finished my shift and drove straight down to Cassino. That man who was in your mother’s bar earlier …’
‘Roberto.’
‘Yes, he was at the counter yesterday evening with another guy, who looked dreadful by the way.’
‘That would be Amerigo.’
‘Whoever he was, he looked ill. Rosetta was there, and I told her I needed a room for the night. There was no room at the inn, so to speak. But she said I could stay at the house. She gave me the room above you.’
As part of her property empire, his mother only rented these out when her other premises were full. It was the off-peak season. Bianca was lying.
‘Why didn’t you come and see me yesterday evening, then?’
‘Your mother told me you were asleep. Besides, I went to bed early. This morning, the van outside in the courtyard woke me up.’
‘You said you slept in your car.’
‘I lied, because I figured that if Gambarella had sent me, he wouldn’t have let me book a room with your mother. He would have expected me to stake you out from the car.’
Bianca’s story became more implausible with each retelling. ‘Can we stop the lies now? If it wasn’t Inspector Gambarella who sent you, why did you follow me? Professional curiosity?’
‘Professional or personal curiosity, both …’ Bianca looked in her rearview mirror. ‘I thought it was a clever way to impress you. Now it seems like a completely stupid idea. What was I thinking? Why don’t I drop you at Castro dei Volsci and return to Rome?’ 
‘I’ll tell you why you won’t be going back to Rome – at least, not yet anyway.’
‘Really? Why is that Meroni?’
‘Because after Castro dei Volsci, I need a lift to Caserta.’ He watched her face as she took this in. ‘Anyway, you haven’t finished your story. What happened after you saw the van?’
Bianca bit her lip and focussed on the road ahead. ‘When I came down this morning, I saw your mother on the path leading to the rear of the house. I was about to follow when I heard male voices and what sounded like a struggle, then footsteps coming towards me. I ducked behind my car. I’d parked next to a small outbuilding – the one with the wire mesh on the windows and the heavy door. I went inside and through the window I could just see over my car. They put you into the van. Your mother was talking to the Camorristi. When the van drove off, she walked round the back of the house. I ran to my room, got my car key, and drove after the van. That was when your mother came running after me. I saw her in my mirror. I didn’t stop. I’m sorry, I should have.’
Bianca had hidden in the pigsty. Meroni used to annoy his mother by hiding in the old wine barrels when it was time for bed. She wouldn’t come to find him. She always waited outside. When he poked his head out the door, she would grab him, clip him round the ear, tell him never to go in there again, and carry him to bed. He smiled at the memory. Innocent days.
Castro dei Volsci sat on a hill overlooking the Sacco River valley. In 1964, the people erected a statue, a monument dedicated to the women and children of the resistance movement in Frosinone. The statue was of a half-naked woman kneeling, her hands reaching behind to a girl-child. Like the woman, the girl was staring open-mouthed towards the heavens.
Meroni read the Latin inscription: Mandatum novum do vobis ut diligatis invicem.
‘It’s from the bible,’ said Bianca. ‘John 13:34, Jesus tells his disciples …’ She ran a finger down the screen of her mobile phone. ‘A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another, as I have loved you.’
‘Tell me about “Two Women aka La Ciociara” – the Sophia Loren film.’
Bianca tapped at her screen. ‘Well, according to Wikipedia …’ 
‘Go on.’ Meroni didn’t care about the dubious source, he just wanted the information.
‘Two Women, Italian La Ciociara, rough translation …’ 
Meroni motioned with his hand for her to get to the point. 
‘La Ciociara … A 1960 war drama directed by Vittorio De Sica … based on the novel of the same name by Alberto Moravia … The story is fictional but inspired by the actual events of 1944 in Rome and rural Lazio, during what Italians call the Marocchinate … the “Moroccan Deeds”. Sophia Loren won an Oscar for her role …’
La Ciociara.
With his anagram, the guy in Primo Caffè had referenced the film, Two Women, not the Ciociaria region. ‘Tell me about the “Moroccan Deeds”.’
Bianca continued. ‘After the Allies capture Rome, Cesira – I presume that’s the character Sophia played – and her daughter, Rosetta, decide to return to the city. On the way, the two are gang-raped inside a church by a group of Moroccan Goumiers, soldiers attached to the invading Allied Armies in Italy. Rosetta is traumatised, becoming detached and distant from her mother …’ Bianca looked up from her phone. ‘This is powerful stuff. Where I come from, they don’t teach this in history lessons.’
Meroni turned away. He felt embarrassed. Ashamed to tell Bianca he’d never heard of the Marocchinate. He pinched the bridge of his nose. This made things complicated. The three victims looked North African. Meroni would hazard a strong guess they were Moroccan. It felt that history was on a collision course with the present. He suspected his mother knew what was happening, but she would not tell him. He would have to keep following the trail that was being laid. A path of discovery. He understood that. Still, the nagging question, the one he couldn’t ignore.
What was his connection to all this?

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 26


15:00 Thursday 26 October 2017
Porto di Napoli, Naples
Don Salvatore Carmino stood at the dockside with his men, watching containers being loaded onto the ships. The clothing manufactured in his factories was transported all over Europe and the Middle East. The quality of his garments was second to none. The designer labels had offered him the contracts, and he delivered. But some companies did not see fit to secure his services for the future; and so, Don Carmino brought his fake brands to the masses, selling the discounted goods in souvenir shops and street markets across the south of Italy, to a less than discerning public. This is where he made the real money. Labour costs were cheap, and the selling price was high. And no multi-national company skimming off the profits. It was a lucrative business.
A white Fiat Ducato van drove through the port gates with a black BMX 8 series in close convoy. 
The vehicles stopped. 
Don Carmino gestured for the driver and his passenger to stay in the van.
The Commander got out of his BMW and approached Don Carmino. He was tall, dark, confident. He held out a hand.
It was a firm grip. 
Expensive sunglasses could not hide the menace in the Commander’s eyes. Natural foes, it was an uneasy peace. However, they were two men bound by a family history, now fighting a common enemy.
The Commander spoke in Italian.
‘It is an honour to meet you, Don Salvatore Carmino. We appreciate your help in these matters.’
Don Carmino pulled the man into an embrace. He felt him stiffen, and the hard bulge of the gun holster inside the jacket.
‘Have the shipments been delivered?’ asked the Commander.
Don Carmino surveyed the docks. ‘Mr. Marshall, one ship has sailed to Barcelona via Malta. The other to the Port of Ashdod in Israel. The cargoes have reached their respective destinations, and the messages will soon be delivered. Now, we need to talk about Detective Meroni …’
‘Can I have your assurance, Don Carmino, that no harm will come to him?’
Don Carmino looked beyond Commander Gordon Marshall to the other Englishman. The one who had confronted him on the day of Nonna Assunta’s funeral. He stood next to the BMW. This one – he was dangerous. The involuntary tug at the lapels of his jacket showed he was on alert, not to be messed with. But this was Don Carmino’s history, his family, his destiny. Meroni had already caused enough harm to his business empire with his meddling in Bari. The Balkan gang wanted Meroni dead. This request Don Carmino had denied. But once he had regained his family history, he would gladly sacrifice Luca Meroni, despite what he had told the other Englishman. Blood relative or not Luca Meroni would die. Don Carmino would avenge his mother and take back his rightful place at the heart of the Meroni family in Cassino. ‘You have my assurance, Commander.’
Gordon Marshall held out an envelope. Don Carmino opened it. Inside was a small black-and-white photograph. The image showed two young women wearing traditional headscarves and dresses; on their feet they wore ciocie, the leather sandals with straps between their ankles and knees synonymous with the Ciociaria region. They were standing in front of a crumbling building that was the Meroni family home.
Don Carmino read the inscription on the back of the photograph. ‘What is this?’
Gordon Marshall removed his sunglasses. He looked Don Carmino in the eye. ‘It is your great-grandmother. This is your history, your birthright. Now, are you certain your men are fully aware of the importance of this operation? The killings need to be recorded, and the images uploaded to this address on the Dark Web.’
Don Carmino took the note from the Commander and waved a hand. ‘The wine we have exported is a fine vintage, Mr. Marshall.’
‘These men are terrorists. They must not be allowed to live,’ said the Commander.
‘These men … their ancestors raped and killed my family. Tell me, Mr. Marshall, is Luca Meroni on his way to Caserta?’
‘That is my understanding. Now, I will ask you again. Can I be assured that he will come to no harm?’
The crime boss smiled and raised open palms. ‘You have the word of Don Salvatore Carmino.’
‘Meroni will come to you once all consignments have reached their final destinations. And not before the last one has been delivered.’
The other Englishman made a circle in the air with his finger. Men in dark clothing carrying assault rifles appeared from their hiding places and walked backwards towards a row of nondescript vehicles parked on the dockside.
The Camorristi reached into their inside pockets. 
Don Salvatore raised a hand for them to stop. These professional killers would overpower his outnumbered men. How did they get onto the docks? This was Camorra territory. His territory.
Gordon Marshall replaced his sunglasses and turned back to the BMW. He whistled as he walked.
Don Salvatore Carmino didn’t like it one bit.
The song the Commander was whistling was something Mauro and Paulo had not stopped humming after they got back from Cassino. 
Una strana sensazione.
Don Salvatore Carmino knew somebody had betrayed him.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

Part 2


OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 27


Monday 17 January 1944
Isola Bella, Cassino, Italy
The children laughed and screamed as they ran. Mama followed them inside the old pigsty and put a finger to her lips.
‘Silenzio, bambini. These men are monsters. Remember, if they find you, they will kill you. So be quiet, children – please.’
Federico climbed into one of the empty wine barrels. He was four years old. Despite his age, he knew what to do.
Franca held up her arms and mewled.
Mama laboured to lift her. ‘Franca, you are a big girl now and getting too heavy. Why can’t you be good like your brother and sister?’
Annamaria jumped into the barrel next to Federico.
Hiding from the soldiers was a routine they had become used to; for each day that passed, the innocence of their childhood was being eroded. Mussolini’s rule had made life harsh, but this was beyond imagination. Their simple lives had changed forever when the war had come to Cassino.
Papa was hiding in the mountains. After the war was over, Mama told Annamaria that he had been a member of the Communist Party, a veteran of the Spanish Civil War. When Mussolini fell, Hitler’s forces were quick to neutralise the Italian army. Papa disappeared to the surrounding hills with the partisans. The resistance fighters were an unlikely brotherhood, armed with antique weapons and riven by political conflict. But together they fought on, their guerrilla incursions targeting unsuspecting enemy soldiers returning to barracks after a drunken night in town. The tactic humiliated the invaders, who took their anger out on the local women. Undeterred, Papa and his comrades stayed up in the mountains. The goal was to support the advancing Allies and deliver an Italy free from fascists. Nothing, not even the harm inflicted on their loved ones, would detract the men from that purpose.
On the darkest nights when the moon hid, Papa stole home. Annamaria would listen to her parents whispering in bed. Papa’s visits were brief, and anger preempted his departures. Mama would beg for him not to go. Papa would take the blows, grabbing her wrists, kissing away her tears, and promising to be back soon. He was always gone before the dawn.
Annamaria heard the alien voices outside in the courtyard.
The old wine barrels were home to a wide variety of insects and spiders. They also held the animal’s feed. Her bare feet trod down on pigswill and rotten grape mulch.
Federico giggled.
Franca laughed.
Annamaria gave a soft thump on wood, a signal for her siblings to be quiet.
On cue, the pigs barged against the closed door with their snouts, bumping against each other as Mama herded them inside. One came shuffling over and sniffed at the bunghole in Annamaria’s barrel. She blew hard into the pig’s eye. It gave an angry grunt and turned away.
The strange voices were now accompanied by the harsh crunch of boots.
Annamaria lifted her barrel lid. Peering through the small mesh window, she looked out into the courtyard.
The grey uniforms were outside.
It was always the same grey uniforms.
The German soldiers marched towards the sty.
Annamaria ducked back down inside her barrel and hugged her knees. The door creaked open. She held her breath, praying that Franca and Federico would be silent.
‘There are only pigs in there.’ Mama’s voice alerted the children to the danger. ‘Although there are only three of them left, you lot have eaten the rest.’
‘And we’ll take another one today,’ one soldier said. ‘What about the wine barrels?’
‘Wine? We haven’t made wine since the start of the war; we have the grapes but no sugar. If you can get me sugar, I will make wine. The grapes from these hills make excellent wine. Too rustic for some. But good enough to drink with pasta …’
The soldier stepped into the sty and sniffed the air. The pigs tried to escape, and the soldier hit out at them with the butt of his rifle. The litter squealed in discord.
Annamaria heard Federico catch his breath.
Mama coughed. ‘The smell is terrible today. The sty needs cleaning.’
The soldier ushered Mama out of the pigsty and marched her towards the house.
The routine was always the same.
And the Germans took so long to leave.
Annamaria listened.
Federico fell asleep, his snores resonating inside the wooden cask.
Franca was singing, her voice barely a whisper.
‘And every hour that we pass here,
Oh, bella ciao, bella ciao, bella ciao, ciao, ciao …’
Annamaria closed her eyes and quietly sang along.
‘And every hour that we pass here
We lose our youth …’
When Mama returned, Franca was the first to clamber out of her hiding place.
Annamaria got out of her barrel and leaned over to wake Federico.
Outside in the courtyard, Mama gazed up at the mountains.
In the distance, the sound of guns. The great booms were getting closer. Papa had said the Allies were coming.
Annamaria wondered when they would all be free to live their simple lives again.
Federico kicked out at the pigs. Annamaria grabbed him and wagged an admonishing finger.
‘Heil Hitler!’ Federico raised his arm.
Franca laughed and returned the fascist salute.
Mama burst into tears and ran into the house.
Everything about their simple lives had changed since the war had come to Cassino.
THREE MONTHS LATER …
Annamaria held Federico tight. He was fast asleep. She put her eye to the bunghole and listened.
All quiet. It had gone midnight.
Earlier that evening, the entire village gathered in the square outside the church to celebrate. Mama had been dancing with the British soldier. Everybody had danced. 
The Battle of Monte Cassino was over, and the Allied troops were on the march to Rome. 
They were free. No Nazis, no fascists. No more Il Duce. Papa could come home.
Annamaria had danced with the British soldier, too. He was as black as the night. His voice was a rich, dark song from an island far away. He had danced and danced around the fire, raising his long arms up to the sky.
Mama called him il merlo – the 'Blackbird'. 
After eating their food and drinking all the wine, the Allied soldiers got in their jeeps and drove off, laughing and waving as they disappeared in the dust. 
The decisive battle had lasted for months. Annamaria had watched the planes bombing Saint Benedict’s Abbey on top of Monte Cassino. There was nothing left. They said the dead bodies were everywhere: in the town centre, on the mountain slopes leading up to the ruins of the abbey, and in the surrounding villages. Death was all around them. 
Still, they celebrated. 
Their war was over.
When the Allied soldiers left, the partisans finally crept from the shadows. 
Annamaria watched, perplexed, as Papa remonstrated with Mama.
Why was he still angry? 
The men stamped on the fire and pushed the women and children back towards their houses.
Mama gathered up Federico.
Papa was running up ahead with Franca.
Annamaria held onto her mother’s skirt and ran.
The men kept repeating one word over and over.
‘Diavoli.’
Devils.
From her hiding place in the wine barrel, Annamaria peered into the silent darkness. 
A murderous light danced outside the open window. 
In the barrel next to her, Franca sobbed. 
Federico woke with a start.
‘Zitto!’ Annamaria put a hand on her brother’s mouth, held her own breath, and listened.
A scrape of boots on the gravel. 
The footsteps came to a halt outside the pigsty. 
Monstrous voices called out in the night. This time, it wasn’t the Germans.
A gunshot crack. And a volley of shouts.
Annamaria wrapped herself around her little brother and prayed. She prayed to God. She prayed for Mama and Papa, Franca, and Federico. She prayed to Saint Benedict, even though he would still be cross about the destruction of his abbey.
The voices drew closer. The door smashed open.
Annamaria looked up.
The devil himself was smiling down at her.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 28


15:30 Thursday 26 October 2017
Russo’s Apartment, Via Sistina, Rome
Russo had got her computer back up and running. Even without the all-encompassing functionality of the search engine she could circumvent most firewalls and complete some of the tasks Meroni had requested.
She logged into the national ANPR system. Within minutes, she had found the white van. A Fiat Ducato on a Frosinone plate travelling along the A1 up to Cassino early this morning, and then the same vehicle two hours later, this time on a Napoli plate, driving back down the same autostrada towards Caserta. Russo zoomed into one of the ANPR images. There he was again. A plastic Diego Maradona with the over-sized head.
Russo opened another window and read a brief history on the Argentina footballer, who Neapolitans called Il Dio – God. He had played for Napoli between 1984 and 1991, leading the team to their first ever Italian championship, il Scudetto, in 1987.
The Campanians had won the prize by beating the much-hated teams in the north of Italy. The street parties went on for weeks. The tifosi named their newborn children after him. In every home, shop, restaurant, and bar, they displayed Maradona’s picture alongside that of Pope John Paul II and Jesus.
The next season, the team were flying high and set to regain the title. The bets placed at illegal outlets by supporters convinced Napoli would win a second championship would have caused the Camorra to lose billions of lira. Then, with the team in a seemingly unassailable position, Maradona sustained an injury. Napoli lost games and finished second. Legend has it the Camorra orchestrated the change in fortunes. They won another championship two years later, but the stories surrounding Maradona were no longer about football. The press reported on illegitimate children and drug misuse. Eventually, Maradona left Italy in 1992 after serving a lengthy drugs ban. The fall from grace did not stop the Neapolitans from continuing to idolise the Argentine.
Russo returned to the task at hand and tracked the Fiat Ducato back to Caserta, where it disappeared from the autostrada. She cursed. She needed her full search capability. The backup programme was on a laptop hidden in Meroni’s apartment. There was no way Russo would trust any cloud storage system with the precious software. To find the Ducato van, she needed to tap into the CCTV system in Caserta. She couldn’t do that without her digital mask.
She checked her phone. Meroni had sent a text. One word: Marocchinate. 
Russo left her apartment and walked down Via Sistina. She pulled up the hood of her sweatshirt to hide her face.
Meroni’s text intrigued her. He had never spoken to her about the atrocities. Surely, he would have known about the massacres in Ciociaria. He had grown up there.
Russo knew all about them. It formed part of her briefing. But she was unaware of the connection to Meroni. Somebody was withholding information from her. Devoid of the computer programme, she was useless. Delving into the deepest areas of the Dark Web, she may have been able to join up the dots. Meroni wanted to know about the “Moroccan Deeds” and their relevance to him. She would do everything within her gift to find the connection. 
She stepped into a pasticceria and bought coffee and a fresh pastry. She came back onto the street and looked for obvious signs of a follow. Satisfied that nobody was tailing her, she took a baseball cap from her bag, tugged at the peak to cover her face, and made her way towards Meroni’s place.
Her mind drifted to the little plastic figure on the dashboard of the Ducato van. The Camorra was a ruthless organisation. It had turned the best footballer in the world into a drug addict, a figure of ridicule. And yet, they had spared Meroni. This was a dangerous game. Though Russo would never have admitted it to anybody, she felt scared. 
At Teatro dell’Opera, she stopped at the news kiosk and bought a bottle of water from the woman behind the counter. As Russo drank, she checked up and down the road. She saw people going about their lunchtime business and traffic crawling around the one-way system.
The huge entrance door to Meroni’s apartment block was open. She walked across the road, nonchalantly entered the portico, and slipped past the concierge. She gained entry to the apartment with the spare key Meroni had given her for safekeeping. Without him, the place felt strange. The level of tidiness was absurd. That was his OCD from the calcio days.
Russo headed straight for the kitchen. She poured water and placed a pod into the coffee machine. Walking into the lounge, she tossed her bag and cap onto the sofa and looked out towards the opera house. 
She took a deep breath.
This wasn’t what she had envisioned when she agreed to the Meroni assignment. Monitor him, they said. Let him do his own thing but keep him on track … Russo didn’t realise they were both being used.
She returned to the kitchen and kicked at the base of the unit housing the built-in oven. She stooped and pulled the wooden board away.
Her hand reached into the void.
Nothing. 
She got on her knees and put her entire arm into the gap and felt around. Her hand flapped against the cold, marble floor tiles. 
The coffee machine hissed. 
She hadn’t switched it on.
‘Morning, Roberta.’ 
Russo shuffled around and sat with her back against the units.
Gianna Sala stood in the kitchen.
Another voice spoke from the dark. The silhouetted figure sipped at an espresso cup. ‘This is excellent coffee. Be a good girl, Russo, and tell us exactly what Meroni is up to and where he is going. We wouldn’t want him to be doing his own thing again, now we have got this far.’
Gianna Sala was holding the laptop, still wrapped in the plastic shopping bag Russo had carried it in on the night she had stolen into the apartment and secreted it under the kitchen cupboards. ‘We’ll need the password to this.’
‘You already have the original copy of the program. You stole it, remember?’
‘No, Roberta. We have a copy of a file that corrupted the moment we opened it back at the Questura. I shouldn’t have underestimated you; of course, you put in a safeguard in case anybody maliciously downloaded the program. But it is not your program to adapt, is it?’
Russo shrugged. ‘Discipline me already.’
The voice stepped out of the shadows. Gambarella lit a cigarette. ‘Come now, Russo. You’ve played your part well. Tell us the password.’
Russo swallowed. She didn’t recognise the new, condescending Inspector Gambarella. The bumbling buffoon was gone. A strong, focussed senior police leader confronted her.
Russo wanted to speak with Meroni.
There was no prospect of that now.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 29


18:30 Thursday 26 October 2017
Viale Carlo 3 di Borbone, Caserta
In the twilight, the Royal Palace of Caserta looked like a giant saffron-coloured wedding cake. As a UNESCO World Heritage site, it drew millions of visitors every year, and besides its historical significance as the former residence of the King of Naples, it also served as a Vatican film set for blockbuster movies.
Meroni sat watching the prostitutes plying their trade at the roadside. The traffic lights turned red. Bianca brought the car to a stop. Within seconds, there was a tap on the passenger-side window.
Meroni turned.
A girl dressed in black lingerie smiled at him. In her hand, she held an unlit cigarette. 
Meroni popped the electric window button.
‘Buonasera …’
The girl did not seem at all fazed by Bianca, who eyed her with mild contempt.
Meroni clicked his cigarette lighter.
The girl cupped the flame. ‘Grazie.’
‘Prego. Tell me, where does a man go to get some action around here?’ The girl flashed a conspiratorial smile. Meroni beckoned her closer and whispered. ‘You know, a late-night drink and maybe a little dance.’
‘Anything else?’ The girl blew cigarette smoke into the air.
Meroni put a finger to his lips and nodded towards Bianca. 
The girl laughed. She had nice teeth and flawless skin. Meroni wondered what history she brought to the game. 
The girl took a skimpy white dress out of her bag and held it up. She leaned against the car roof. ‘Would you like to take me to the ball?’  
‘Maybe I’ll see you around midnight, Cinderella.’
‘I’ll be waiting with my glass slippers.’
The light turned green. The girl toppled forward as Bianca drove away. Meroni looked back. Once she regained her balance, the girl turned to her fellow street hawkers and stuffed the white dress back into her bag. The others laughed at her. Meroni noticed the bruises on her legs and wondered again how she had ended up on the streets.
‘Is now a suitable time to hook up with a prostitute?’
Meroni looked at Bianca. ‘Just getting to know the locals. We’ve got to start our enquiries somewhere.’
Bianca shook her head in disbelief. ‘Somewhere, indeed. I didn’t think the young ones were your type … Now, where is this hotel? I need a hot bath.’


After taking his shower, Meroni headed into town, leaving Bianca asleep on the bed. He needed some time on his own. The streets were busy. Friends and families strolled in the evening sun. Meroni grabbed a panino and took a seat in a small park next to the statue of Luigi Vanvitelli, architect of the Royal Palace. He let the moment take him. Caserta was a town of eighty thousand people. Without an enormous slice of luck, the chances of finding the Fiat Ducato van were slim to none. That was factoring without Russo. But he had heard nothing else from her. And her phone was ringing to voicemail. Then he remembered. When he spoke to her this morning, she said she’d sent him a text. To his actual phone. This he had switched off and left under the passenger seat in Bianca’s Fiesta. That might explain her silence. 
He went to call Gambarella; then hesitated. No calls or texts from him, either. Meroni had told his boss that Russo was trying to find the van, and he was driving down to Caserta. Despite this, Gambarella had not checked in with him. He tapped the burner phone against his chin. Something was off. 
Meroni wandered the narrow streets of the town. He heard the music being played by a Beatles tribute band before he saw the posters on the lampposts advertising the gig. They were performing in front of a bar at a crossroads. Meroni edged through the crowd. A young couple were kissing at an outside table. Meroni caught the girl’s eye and pointed to an empty stool. The girl nodded. The boy sulked. The girl wrapped her arms around the boy and kissed him. The boy gave a reluctant nod. 
Meroni sat down and raised a finger to a blonde-haired version of Russo, minus the tattoos, carrying a tray of drinks. The resemblance was uncanny. He ordered a beer and checked his mobile. Nothing. 
Then, a text arrived – from Bianca. 
It’s Daniela. Where are you? 
Short and simple. Straight to the point. Meroni felt uncomfortable. It wasn’t Bianca’s over-familiarity bothering him, nor the fact she had lied about how she came to be in Cassino, or her having hinted at his preference for older women after the encounter with the street girl – that was information she could have got from his former colleagues at the Questura. No, what gave greater cause for concern was the fact he hadn’t given Bianca the number to the burner phone.


 

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 30


18:45 Thursday 26 October 2017
Saint George’s Basilica, Gozo
Father Rolando stumbled along Triq San Ġorġ. Dusk was falling and what light remained in the day was struggling to illuminate the narrow streets that led to the Basilica. The bishop’s phone call had roused the priest from his evening siesta and saved him from his lecherous dreams. Impure thoughts about the widow Lora Sciberras. A fine woman. His violent temptation – he couldn’t help it if she always kept the buttons of her blouse undone to show off the crucifix nestling between her golden breasts.
Give me strength, Padre Pio!
Father Rolando walked down the deserted street.
Where were all the people?
As he entered Saint George’s Square, the priest saw a figure lying in the centre of the basalt stone circle at the far end of the small pedestrianised area.
He walked over slowly.
The body was on its back with arms outstretched and feet crossed. Something was sticking out of the chest. It was a wooden child’s play sword. Could this be some sick joke? The face was unrecognisable. An animal of sorts had ripped apart the eyes and nose; the mouth, a great crimson gash that stretched from ear to ear, fixed in a macabre smile.
‘Good evening, Father Rolando …’ 
The bishop stepped out from an alcove and flicked his cigarette to the floor. He took a picture of the corpse with his mobile phone.
Two men appeared from the shadows.
The bishop spoke to them in Italian. The men grabbed an arm each; the bishop picked up a foot.
‘Father Rolando, you grab the other leg, and we will get this thing into the Basilica.’
The leg was stiff and frozen. Father Rolando glanced down. There was no blood on the ground.
The four men carried the butchered body into the Basilica and placed it under the statue of Saint George. 
The bishop handed over his phone to the priest. He knelt, gripped the wooden handle of the child’s sword, and grinned. 
‘One more picture for the scrapbook, Father Rolando, then these fine gentlemen can get this bastard out of here.’

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 31


20:00 Thursday 26 October 2017
Via San Carlo, Caserta
Meroni watched as she made her way through the crowd. She walked like an experienced police officer: head down, but alert, and focussed. She glanced up at passers-by and her surroundings. When she saw him, her face relaxed.
He downed his drink, beckoned to the Russo lookalike, and ordered two more beers. 
The tribute band launched into their next number. I Saw Her Standing There, the opening track from The Beatle’s debut album. Meroni was a fan. The local bands from Cassino would play their songs at village celebrations and feast days held in the square outside Santa Maria del Carmine church. Despite his mother’s toxic view of life as a single mother, his childhood had been relatively happy, and the “Fab Four” had provided the soundtrack to his youth. This evening, Biglietto Per L’Inferno could go fuck itself.
Meroni stood and offered his seat. The couple left the table and entered the bar. Meroni took one of the vacated chairs and sat facing Bianca.
He had to lean in close to hear her voice over the music. 
‘How did you find this place?’
‘The same way you did. I followed my nose.’
Bianca furrowed her brow.
Their drinks arrived. Bianca sat back in her chair and picked up a beer. Meroni chinked bottles and leaned in again. She had washed her hair and let it down; he caught the citrus notes of the hotel shower gel. Perhaps he should rethink his preferred type. He had learned the older lovers did not come without their problems, a lot of which were deep-rooted. Giving up women altogether would be far better.
Not an option.
Meroni snapped himself back to the task in hand. Russo was right. He’d become fat and lazy. He would take Gamba’s advice and return to the Questura. But tonight, he would try to figure out why someone had led him to Caserta, and what his guardian angel was up to.
Bianca tugged at his sleeve. ‘Isn’t that the girl from earlier? Your Cinderella story?’
Meroni glanced over his shoulder. He turned back again before the girl noticed him. ‘That’s her.’ It wasn’t the girl he was interested in, though. ‘Do you see that guy she is with? The bald one. Tell me what you see behind him?’
‘A white van,’ said Bianca.
‘Can you tell the make and model?’
‘It’s side on, no livery. I’m not good with vehicles. It could be a Fiat … sorry.’
‘Is it one of the guys from this morning?’ he asked.
‘I really don’t know …’
‘In which case, can you see the van’s dashboard, Bianca?’
‘What is it about the dashboard that is so fascinating?’
‘It doesn’t matter if you can’t see it.’
‘No, I can’t.’
He fought the urge to turn around. ‘What are they doing now?’
‘It looks like there are several girls talking to the guy. He is giving them a load of cards – flyers. The Cinderella girl looks vacant, Meroni. Like she’s out of it. She’s asking him for something … he’s not happy … Oh my God!’
‘What happened?’ Meroni fought the impulse to look.
‘He just grabbed her by the throat and banged her head against the side of the van. The bastard!’ Bianca gritted her teeth.
Meroni stood up. He put his arms around her. Bianca didn’t flinch. She was no rookie. Standing behind her gave him the opportunity to see what was happening with the girl. 
The guy had his back to him. He was wearing a leather jacket, and his broad shoulders blocked Meroni’s view. Another girl was rubbing the end of her nose with a forefinger. She sniffed and opened her eyes wide. Cocaine. Drugs and working girls, the classic business plan. When the guy stepped back, Meroni saw Cinderella. The twitch of the nose and wide-eyed look told him she’d also got her fix. The bald guy’s finger jabbed at her chest; she looked away, and the guy grabbed her face. Meroni tightened his grip on Bianca. Her heart was beating as fast as his. 
Holding back and watching was not in their job description. But they couldn’t intervene here.
Meroni let go of Bianca and walked into the bar on the pretence of getting more beers. He needed to get hold of the real Russo; she could track the Ducato when it moved off. He went past the counter and, following the toilet signs, descended a narrow staircase at the rear. He passed the boy from outside as he entered the toilet. Meroni noted the dilated pupils. That’s why the boy had come inside, not because someone had gate-crashed his table. He needed to score. Another decent kid thinking he was God’s gift on the white stuff. Meroni bit back on his rising anger, resisted the temptation to slap him, and entered a toilet cubicle. He checked the lock on the door was working and dialled. Again, Russo’s phone went straight to voicemail. He was running blind without her computer skills; she could log into the Caserta CCTV now and follow the van live – find out where it was going. He tried again. Still her voicemail. He sent a desperate text. Call ME! He was about to exit the cubicle when he heard somebody enter the toilet. 
A one-way conversation. A deep voice speaking in hushed tones into a mobile phone. 
‘Yes, understood. We’ll bring the van back tonight, Don Salvatore.’
Meroni held his breath and manoeuvred himself to look through the gap in the doorframe. In the wall mirror, a reflection. He couldn’t be certain if he were one of his attackers from earlier. Meroni couldn’t expose himself here. He felt his ribs. They still hurt like hell. And his kidneys ached. He was in no fit state to fight anybody. He peered through the gap again. He saw a bald head; the gnarled face in the mirror he didn’t recognise. When they had attacked him this morning, Meroni switched to survival mode. Fighting back on instinct alone. He hadn’t seen their faces. Meroni heard the hand dryer activate. Not wanting to arouse suspicion, he flushed the toilet. The guy was Camorra, and his antennae would be on overdrive. Meroni listened and waited for the hand dryer to stop. He heard the main door close, exited the cubicle, and headed back up the stairs.
A bartender caught his eye. Fuck it, he needed more beer. He raised four fingers and pointed outside. 
‘Where did you go?’ Bianca asked, when he was back at the table.
Meroni rubbed her shoulders. Again, she didn’t flinch at his touch. 
‘Il bagno.’ 
‘While you were gone, the bald heavy just came out of the bar.’
‘I know. He was in the toilet with me.’
‘Did he see you?’
‘I don’t think so.’
Meroni kept his eye on the van. The bald guy opened the passenger door. He glimpsed the driver. Meroni would have bet they were the two heavies from the Alfa Romeo back in Rome, and they were probably the same guys who had abducted him from his mother’s house this morning. 
Meroni watched the Cinderella girl walking amongst the punters, handing out her flyers, smiling without making eye contact. She wore the white lace dress over her black lingerie. On the table next to them, a male, early-20s, student-looking with round tortoiseshell glasses, seized her by the wrist and tried to pull her onto his lap. The girl smacked him with her bundle. She rubbed her thumb and fingers together. 
‘If you want to dance with me, you pay. If you’ve got any money, which I doubt.’ 
The student’s friends all laughed at him.
In the meantime, the white van drove off. It was a Fiat Ducato on a Napoli licence plate. Meroni made a mental note of the registration number.
The girl noticed him and made a beeline. ‘Ciao, Bello. We meet again. Are you stalking me or what?’ 
‘Cinderella, you just keep walking into my life. My girlfriend’s getting very jealous.’ 
Bianca jabbed Meroni in the ribs. It was a direct hit, causing him to grimace.
The girl held out a flyer.
Meroni read the leaflet. Il Ragazzo D’Oro. Another reference to Diego Maradona.
‘And you dance here, at “The Golden Boy”?’
‘If you pay me. I will dance for you.’ She wiggled her hips seductively. A well-rehearsed routine. She looked at Bianca, who was self-consciously picking at the label on her bottle. The girl waved a leaflet. ‘Two free drinks, twenty percent discount on entry, and for the first private dance.’ 
‘I’m paying, so you’d better be good.’ Bianca tipped her bottle.
The girl looked taken aback at this but quickly composed herself. ‘I’ll dance for both of you … if you like.’ 
‘Not for me, thanks.’ Bianca said. ‘Just him.’
The girl winked and walked off to join the others.
Meroni followed them with his eyes. They went about their business with perfunctory haste. The only verbal communication was a quick riposte to the lewd comments or any act of bravado from the men they handed the leaflets to. 
The band struck up Lady Madonna. Paul McCartney’s tribute to hardworking women. The song choice felt ironic.
The white van, the Camorra heavies … Again, the chances were too logical.
The Russo lookalike was back with the drinks he’d ordered inside.
He took a long swig from one of the bottles.
Bianca narrowed her eyes. ‘Dutch courage?’
Meroni returned an icy stare. ‘Something like that.’

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 32


21:00 Thursday 26 October 2017
Al Khader, Palestine
The monk peered out into the street. Two men were at the church entrance. Between them, they held a hooded figure whose feet scraped at the ground in desperation as he struggled to break free of their grip. One man kneed the captive; the perfect strike to the muscle group on the outside of the thigh quelled any further resistance. The monk beckoned the men inside, slamming the metal doors shut behind them.
Inside the church, ornate chandeliers illuminated a riot of primary-coloured frescoes that adorned the nave, paintings celebrating the exploits of Saint George.
‘Palestine is some way from Naples, gentlemen. But you have chosen the location well. This is a site venerated by both Muslims and Christians alike.’ The monk led them to the north transept.
They ripped the hood from the prisoner, revealing a bruised and battered face. He was only a boy, his diminutive size accentuated by his ill-fitting heavy cloth jacket and baggy trousers, which were ripped and torn. There was no doubting his captors had kept him in check with regular beatings on the boat voyage to Palestine. 
The boy blinked up at the light.
‘Do you know, the Romans imprisoned Saint George at this very spot because he refused to renounce his faith? They had a thing about torturing Christians. You will know him better as Al-Khader. They incarcerated him here in chains, before they beheaded him at Lydda.’ The monk picked up a set of metal horse reins.
The boy fell to his knees, muttering frantically to himself.
The monk waved the bridle over the boy’s head. ‘These are the reins of Al-Khader’s horse, said to cure mental illness. They are the chains that held Saint George captive before his execution. Islamic folklore describes Al-Khader as a wonderful spirit who travels the world in peace; a good and just man.’ He fitted the manacle around the neck of the boy. ‘Would you call yourself good and just?’
The boy nodded. ‘Praise be to Allah!’
They were the last words he would ever speak.
The monk dragged the boy to the floor and brought the heavy metal hard down on his head. The skull shattered, blood and brain fragments spattered onto the mosaic floor. Repeatedly, the monk raised the chains high and flung them at the prostrate body. Each strike ripping the flesh from the shattered bones. Again, and again he struck.
Finally, one man stepped forward. ‘Brother, he is quite dead. Do you have your phone?’
The monk stepped back, trembling with rage. He set the chains down and took out his smartphone. ‘I trust our work is over, gentlemen?’
The man handed the monk a piece of paper. ‘Not quite, Brother. Allow my friend to arrange the body and then upload your photo to this site. And then, God’s work will be done.’

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 33


22:15 Thursday 26 October 2017
Il Ragazzo D’Oro, Caserta
Bianca parked up in a lay-by opposite “The Golden Boy” nightclub. ‘You’re not going in there on your own. Cinderella said she’d dance for both of us. I’m coming in with you, Meroni.’ 
He watched a group of young males. The students from the bar in town. They were pushing at each other, full of nervous laughter, as they waited with great expectation. A black-tied door attendant stood with his hands clasped in front. He motioned for them to stand against the outside wall. The students followed his instructions. The door attendant walked the line and then flicked his head for them to enter the club. With mutual back-slaps, they disappeared inside.
‘You wait here.’ Meroni held up a hand before Bianca could protest. ‘I’ll be back within thirty minutes.’
Bianca went to speak.
Meroni put his hand to her mouth. ‘It will be like Daniel entering the lion’s den.’
She pulled her face away. ‘What is it with all the Biblical references? And what if you don’t come out?’
‘Trust me. They will not harm me, because I am blameless.’ 
Bianca threw her hands up in the air. ‘What are you getting at now?’
‘Just, trust me …’
Meroni walked up to the entrance. The door attendants scrutinised him. He flashed the leaflet. One of them tapped the face of his watch. Meroni read the flyer. The offer was only valid before ten o’clock. Typical. Folding the leaflet into his back pocket, Meroni walked into the entrance lobby. The students were arguing amongst themselves because they couldn’t use their discounts on entry. There would be no free drink or cheap dance. The one wearing the tortoiseshell glasses walked out. The sensible one. The others made deals amongst themselves over who was to pay. They loaded the entrance fees onto their credit cards and passed into the nightclub. 
Meroni stepped forward.
The cashier had dark rings under her eyes; she wore a sky-blue vest, and a bored expression. She pointed to a sign that informed him it would cost thirty euros to get in. Thirty euros and no free drinks. Meroni tapped his card on the reader. He looked into the CCTV camera positioned behind the cash desk. The door attendants would have already flagged his entry to the Camorristi. Meroni lingered. He wanted to ensure they knew he was here. The cashier waved him in.
It was a small nightclub. Intimate. Mirrored walls and marble tables set in a circle around the dancefloor. A girl was pole dancing, sliding upside down towards the floor. She smiled up at Meroni. The students at the bar turned and gave him the thumbs up. They must have recognised him from earlier. Gambarella was right. He was the worst undercover police officer in the world. He would always stand out in a crowd, let alone a half-empty nightclub. He waved the students away and felt a tap on his arm.
‘I see you’ve left your friend at home.’ The Cinderella girl tossed her hair.
Her beauty again struck Meroni. She had fantastic hair: dark, straight, and shiny. What was she doing here? This wasn’t a vocation of choice. Initially, it may have appeared to be a money-making opportunity. But then came the paymaster’s demands. The debauched parties with the rich businesspeople and gangsters who needed to be entertained. And the drugs. It was a creeping form of debt bondage: the more you relied on the drugs, the more you needed the work to pay for them. They had you fully hooked in when your earnings didn’t cover the cost of the drugs. He had seen it in Bari.
Meroni took the girl’s hand and held it to his lips. She smiled nervously. They would not allow touching. But it gave him a chance to examine the inside of her arms. Even under the flashing lights, he would have been able to spot the telltale signs, the bruising, the track marks. But her arms were clear, the skin unblemished. She hadn’t travelled that far down the Silk Road.
She snatched her hand back. ‘Drink?’
Meroni allowed himself to be led to the bar. Her hand reached behind for his. Her rules. She was in control now. He ordered two glasses of Amaretto over ice. Best not to worry at the cost. He would claim all the expenses back for this trip, and Gambarella would sanction them.
The girl walked him around the dance floor and through a beaded curtain. Meroni followed her down a corridor, the close walls adorned with gaudy neon signs. They came to a door with a gold flashing number 10 – Maradona’s shirt number. The VIP room. She opened the door and beckoned him inside. A two-seater sofa and small table occupied the dimly lit interior. The music from the nightclub was being piped over two speakers positioned high on the far wall. Meroni scanned the corners of the room and noted the security cameras. 
Daniel had entered the lion’s den. 
The girl put her untouched drink down on the table and pointed to the sofa. 
Meroni sat down.
The girl wriggled out of her white dress to reveal the black lingerie. She placed her hands on Meroni’s knees and caught her bottom lip between her teeth.
Meroni whispered into her ear. ‘What are you doing here?’
The girl held a finger to her lips and danced. 
Meroni sipped at his drink. This was not his thing. He had never paid for a cheap trick. He thought about the Camorristi. They would watch the CCTV for his reaction. This was a deadly game, the rules to which Meroni couldn’t grasp. But he wasn’t afraid. This morning, they had bundled him out of his mother’s house and driven him in the back of a van to the Cassino War Cemetery. If they had wanted to kill him, they would have shot him, along with the third victim.
The girl danced closer. 
To distract himself from her movements, Meroni let his mind wander. The truth was undeniable. He had got complacent. Full of his own self-importance and the kudos that came with being an undercover operative. He had also grown too reliant on Russo and her computer gimmicks.
The girl sat on his lap, her back to him.
The Questura … The ‘Blackbird’ jibes. It wasn’t just the video Crisanti had shared around the office. People had spread gay rumours after they saw him in a Rome nightclub with Stefano Abbadelli, his former teammate at the AS Roma Academy. In developing the modelling legend prior to the Bari operation, Meroni had visited bars and clubs associated with the gay scene. But now that was all over. He needed to confront the homophobia head on. 
Once there had been a passing curiosity. During his time at the Primavera, he had become obsessed with Leo Veron, the wonder kid from Buenos Aires. Leo had everything: talent, looks, and charisma. Meroni had found himself drawn to him. He never knew if it was a physical attraction. The infatuation lasted until Leo got him intoxicated and sexually assaulted him, the night before the final trial match. The morning after he had walked onto the football field an angry young man. But this was his moment. Unless he had a terrible game, Meroni would get to realise his childhood dream. One thought consumed his mind. To upstage the Argentine and secure his contract. The game had gone well. Meroni had scored two goals. Leo was off the pace. Distracted. There was a fifty-fifty ball. Meroni had gone flying in … The injuries sustained ended both of their football careers.
Meroni’s curiosity vanished.
The girl took his drinking glass and set it down on the table. She leant on his thighs and whispered in his ear. ‘Take your jacket off. Sit on your hands. No touching. By order of the management.’ 
She motioned to the CCTV cameras like a cabin crew host showing the safety procedure before take-off. Meroni did as instructed. The girl moved behind him, pressing her body against his back as she reached over and ran her hands over his chest and thighs. 
She walked around to face him. 
Meroni stared up at her.
Then she was on her knees, her head in his lap, tossing her hair from side to side. She stood up and removed the black bodice. Her breasts were natural, small; and there was a tattoo in script on her rib cage, Carpe diem – Seize the day.
She sat astride Meroni and pushed herself hard against his groin. 
He made his move. ‘Listen to me. Don’t react.’ Her gyrations slowed. ‘The white van … I just want to know who owns the white van.’ 
‘They’ll kill me.’  
‘No, they won’t.’
‘You don’t know them.’
‘I’m a cop …’ He let the word hang. 
The girl stood up.
Meroni waited – hands tucked under his knees. The sweat dripped from his armpits. He glanced at the cameras behind the girl. His heart was racing. He was gambling on the fact they didn’t want him dead. But how closely were they observing things? 
The girl hooked her fingers into the sides of her lace knickers and pulled them down. Meroni smelt her sex. She lowered herself onto him and brushed her breasts against his face. It was the lightest touch, and he became aroused, the adrenalin pumping through his body.
The girl smiled. 
Then she bent forward and whispered. ‘Are you really a cop?’
Meroni’s breathing grew laboured.
‘Can you help me get away from this?’ She leant back and gave him a pleading look. Then she pressed herself tight against him.
She wanted salvation. 
Meroni needed redemption. 
‘What’s your name?’ This would reveal if he had played his cards right. He caught his breath as she thrust even harder against him. 
‘Nicoletta.’
Her parents had named her after Saint Nicholas of Bari, the patron saint of prostitutes. Bari. Again. The coincidences were piling up. The place would haunt him forever. ‘Nicoletta. If you can’t tell me who … just tell me where I can find the white van.’
‘In Naples … near the Via Toledo.’ Her words came out in gasps. ‘You will need to look for … The hand of God.’
Meroni took Nicoletta by the arms and kissed her. 
Her eyes sparked with fear.
He held her face. ‘Trust me.’ 
The door flew open.
Nicoletta scampered to a corner.
Meroni jumped up, hands raised. ‘Sorry, sorry … Guys, I couldn’t control myself any longer.’ He pointed to his groin area. 
Nicoletta gesticulated towards him as she gathered up her clothing. She cursed Meroni. He was a maniac, a pervertito. She fell into the arms of the bald one with the brown leather jacket. Meroni knew her history now. She was an actor. Broken dreams of Cinecittà turned to dust. Tonight’s performance had been outstanding.
Two bouncers escorted him from the room. As they walked him back through the nightclub, Meroni felt his heart rate slowing. He would emerge. Just like Daniel, saved by an angel who had closed the jaws of the angry lion. He was the boy who lived again.
Harry Potter sat on the pavement waiting for his friends inside the club.
Meroni offered him a fifty-euro note. ‘Take it. Enjoy yourself.’ 
The bewildered student thanked him and made his way into the nightclub. He could now look his friends in the eye and maybe have some spare change into the bargain all courtesy of the Polizia di Stato.
Meroni walked over to the Fiesta. As he got in the car, Bianca raised an eyebrow.
Meroni adjusted his jeans. ‘I need a shower.’
Bianca lifted her hands from the steering wheel. ‘That is so gross! Do not come anywhere near me.’
Up to that point, the idea hadn’t crossed his mind.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

Prologue


11:00 Friday 22 September 2017
Cemetery of Poggioreale, Naples
Don Salvatore Carmino traced the name etched on the stone plaque fixed to the wall of the family mausoleum and wept. Silent tears. He was not one for overt displays of emotion. He had never known his Bisnonna Franca; she had died and been laid to rest long before he was born, but Nonna Asunta told him the stories of how during the war his great-grandmother and her siblings hid from the Nazis in wine barrels kept in a pigsty. That was before the Allied soldiers raped them after the Battle of Monte Cassino.
The disgrace of her pregnancy resulted in Franca being sent away, to Naples, never to return home. The Meronis had got rich on the compensation paid by the British government. They bought land and built a vast property empire from the bombed out ruins of Cassino old town, sharing none of their wealth with his great-grandmother or her new family. They banished Franca. Forever.
Things would be different now Nonna Assunta was dead. He would avenge the years of hurt. Sniffing back the unseen tears, he reached into the niche and patted the top of her olive wood coffin. Don Carmino nodded at the stonemason to fix the Carrara marble crypt cover in place and made to take his leave.
A dark figure stood at the vault entrance, next to this person the silhouette of a Neapolitan Mastiff.
The dark figure held the dog by its leash. The animal was calm. That itself was strange, the giant canine was an untamed beast fiercely loyal to the crime boss. More concerning was the fact nobody had challenged this person.
The man wore a black suit and sunglasses. Inconspicuous. Dressed to blend in with the mourners.
The man spoke. ‘Signor Carmino … We need to talk.’
Don Carmino stepped out into the sun. The cobbled path outside the mausoleum was empty. Where were his men? Where had everyone gone?
The dog growled.
The man tugged at its leash. ‘Silenzio.’
The dog sat at the man’s feet.
The man nodded.
The dog laid down.
‘I suspect, Signor Carmino, you may think now is the time to take your revenge on the Meroni family?’ The man spoke with a foreign accent, but his Italian was flawless. ‘And I believe, given the series of events in Bari, that your clothing factories are desperately in need of migrant workers. You must realise Detective Meroni was only doing his job.’
‘There are many ways for people to come to Italy,’ said Don Carmino.
‘Yes, there are other routes into Europe; quasi-legal entry points for genuine refugees seeking asylum, which don’t lead to their being held in servitude by Eastern Balkan trafficking gangs or the Camorra.’
Don Carmino bristled. ‘That’s my dog …’
The man jerked the dog’s leash. The mastiff growled.
‘Is that so, Signor Carmino? Vito here does not appear to recognise you as his only master. I strongly suggest you need to listen to what I have to say.’
Don Carmino could feel his blood boiling. How did this man know his dog’s name?
He took a step forward.
The man raised his free hand. Armed men moved into view. ‘I suggest you listen to our offer, Signor Carmino.’
‘Who are you?’
‘All in good time, but for now it is none of your business.’
‘Everything in Naples is my business.’
‘It was, but not now, Signor Carmino. Not since Bari. You allowed the Polizia di Stato to infiltrate your crime network. That is what your Albanian friends think happened. Now, they have gone back to the Balkans, and your supply of migrant workers, the drug routes, and vulnerable teenagers to prostitute, have all but dried up. You need to reassert your authority.’
Don Carmino winced. It was true. He had failed in Bari. No one had questioned his power before. But undercover police – Detective Meroni – had infiltrated his network, and the Albanians had left him to pick up the pieces. He took it personally. ‘What do you want?’
‘I work for the British government. We need your organisation’s help.’
Don Carmino smiled to himself and shook his head. The British … they were so arrogant.
‘This is no joke,’ said the man.
Don Carmino did not like this person. He was too full of himself.
‘The British government is keen to send out a message to migrants of fighting age who take advantage of the illegal immigration routes to enter the European mainland. They infiltrate. They are terrorists hiding in plain sight, and they are currently preparing to attack Rome. It is an assault on the West, democracy within Europe is threatened, and innocent lives will be lost. They are certainly not welcome on British shores. The migrant issue causes anxieties in the United Kingdom amongst the native population, as I am sure it does in Italy. For that reason, this needs to be kept out of the mainstream news channels.’
‘You are no longer a part of the European Union, why should you care about Italy?’
‘Signor Carmino … we require use of your distribution network: your men and ships. All you must do is deliver some key messages on our behalf. But we will need to play in the dark. If you get my meaning.’
‘If you wish to use my assets, you must pay,’ said Carmino. Now he knew. This man was a spy. The British had paid the Meroni family a fortune after the events of the war. Hush money for the atrocities committed. After all these years, they had returned. To fight a new battle. ‘So, I ask you: What is in it for me?’
‘The Italian authorities are prepared to grant you immunity from prosecution for human trafficking …’
‘I don’t traffic people. I offer them opportunity.’
‘Yes … Anyway, my offer is immunity from the Italian police for all activity linked to your migrant workforce, and in return we will bring you Detective Luca Meroni.’
‘Why would you do that?’
‘A quid pro quo arrangement, Signor Carmino. Besides, he is the only way you can get close to the mother.’
Carmino had long wanted to muscle in on the financial empire of Rosetta Meroni. Six months ago, someone killed his parents in a drive-by shooting. Carmino assumed control of the family business; he wanted to make his move then. Nonna Asunta, may God rest her soul, would not allow it. But even if he had ignored his grandmother, he wouldn’t have got close to Rosetta Meroni; she held too much power in the Lazio region. Don Carmino had built a reputation for ruthlessness, but his grandmother taught him that violence within the family solved nothing. Against his better nature, he had waited. Nonna Asunta was a wise woman. It would appear his patience was about to be rewarded.
‘Why should I trust the British?’
‘You have my word, as an Englishman … You help us in the War on Terror, and we will deliver Rosetta Meroni’s son unto you.’
‘Tell me. What does he know about anything?’
‘He is ignorant. He knows nothing. His mother has never talked to him about the war; he knows nothing about the things that happened to the family, or his relationship to you.’
‘Then how will you get him to come to me?’
‘Ah … with your help we are going to lay the perfect breadcrumb trail. He is a police officer; he would never willingly come even if he knew his personal history. Besides, he is a little upset after what happened to him in Bari at the hands of your Albanian friends. So, we are going to nudge him along to the Crocodile’s lair.’
Coccodrillo. 
Don Carmino was the man who brought fake goods to Saturday markets all over southern Italy and earned the nickname from the logo of his most profitable brand. The joke was he killed his enemies by eating them alive.
‘But … absolutely no harm must come to Meroni,’ said the Englishman.
Don Carmino opened his arms wide. ‘Who do you think I am? Despite everything that has happened, he is still family.’
‘This is the one condition set by the Commander, my Boss. No harm must come. We will put Meroni in your gift. Then, you can settle your little family dispute. I am told there is a greater truth here, Signor Carmino. A truth of which, even I am ignorant.’
‘Don’t the English say ignorance is bliss?’
The Englishman held out a hand.
Don Carmino took the dog’s leash and gazed down at the docile animal.
‘There is something else about ignorance, Signor Carmino. According to a great Roman philosopher, ignorance is the cause of all fear.’
Don Salvatore Carmino stared into the eyes of the Englishman, ‘I’m not easily scared.’
‘Excellent. We have a deal, Signor Carmino. I’ll tell the Commander the good news ... Arrivederci.’



OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 34


05:30 Friday 27 October 2017
Barcelona Cathedral, Catalonia
Sister Marta and Sister Caterina were late for morning mass. They giggled as they dashed through the Porta de Santa Eulàlia, then shushed themselves so as not to disturb the geese who roamed the cloisters.
As the nuns neared the fountain, a wine barrel rolled in their direction.
Screams pierced the dawn.
They flung themselves against the metal railings of the inner courtyard. The barrel hurtled towards them, and they braced themselves for the impact. Right before the barrel was about to hit them, a giant of a man appeared out of nowhere and halted it with his foot.
Sister Marta and Sister Caterina clung to each other and prayed.
Lord, forgive me for my sins and save me …
The man pummelled down on wooden handles that protruded from the barrel. Each punch was a deliberate act of vengeance that wrought a monstrous cry from within the cask. Satisfied with his efforts, he rolled the barrel back and forth until the screams were silenced.
A second man stepped into the wan light. He was small, wiry, rodent looking. He tugged at a handle, revealing a long, bloody blade. ‘Count the precise number if you will, sisters.’ 
The two men removed the knives.
Thirteen. That figured. It was the same age at which Saint Eulàlia, the co-patron saint of the city of Barcelona, became martyred during the reign of the Roman Emperor Diocletian. The Roman occupiers forced Eulàlia to stand naked in a public square for daring to protest over the treatment of Christians. Despite it being springtime, a freak snowfall fell to cover her nudity. The enraged Romans placed her in a barrel with knives stuck into it and rolled it down the city streets.
When they had extracted all the knives, the men upturned the wine barrel. A lifeless, bloodied body fell out. It was a young man, dressed in tweed; a battered bowler hat fell on top of him. They placed the body in front of the fountain and arranged it in a state of crucifixion: arms outstretched; feet crossed together. 
One man produced a phone, and the camera flash illuminated the corpse. In the background a fountain, crowned by a diminutive statue of Saint George – the patron saint of Barcelona – slaying the dragon.
The geese behind the railing hissed.
Sister Marta and Sister Caterina heard hurried footsteps.
‘Come now, ladies. These men are our brothers. They have important work to do. So, let us get ourselves to mass.’ The Mother Superior placed a comforting hand on their shoulders and walked them into the Holy Basilica.
A short while later, she returned with a bucket and mop.
The body had disappeared. 
‘I will take care of the mess, gentlemen.’
The men departed with the barrel.
The Mother Superior mopped at the blood-soaked  flagstones while the thirteen geese kept a silent vigil.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 35


05:30 Friday 27 October 2017
Russo’s Apartment, Via Sistina, Rome
When they returned to the apartment, she had found it as she’d left it. Tidy. Roberta Russo preferred to work in chaos. It freed the mind and her digital soul. That was the lie she had fed Meroni. She hated living in such a mess. Thankfully, she wouldn’t be in Rome much longer. She was tired of the charade and had grown weary at the relentlessness of it all. Operazione Uncino had become a lengthy undertaking. Keeping Meroni onside was the simple part. He was a detective; crime investigation was in his DNA. Like a dog searching for a bone, once he was on the scent, he wouldn’t stop digging until he’d found whatever it was he was looking for. Even if he were questioning his ability to continue in the undercover role – and he was the worst UC operative she’d come across – he was a career detective. The dead bodies had piqued his interest. He was back in the game. But it was all the crap that went with Operation Hook that made it difficult for her to maintain her legend.
The truth would eventually come out. But for now, as far as Meroni was concerned, she was just a girl who enjoyed computers, football, beer, and other girls. After it all ended, she planned to go back to Turin.
They had spent the afternoon drinking in Russo’s favourite bar in Piazza del Popolo. Gianna Sala had matched her own alcohol intake. No wiping of bottles on this occasion.
The moment they got back to Russo’s apartment, a mobile phone pinged.
Russo cursed herself. Why hadn’t she activated silent mode? She had hidden the backup mobile phone in her bedroom. If Meroni had gone to a burner phone, she figured she ought to at least ready an alternative device herself.
Sala’s eyes went to the chest of drawers.
‘For fuck’s sake …’ Russo ambled across the room and retrieved the phone from its hiding place.
There was a brief text from Meroni.
Two words: Call ME!
Sala extended her hand. ‘Give me that, Roberta …’ Having read the message, she looked at Russo in exasperation. ‘You cannot respond to this. I must admit, you are very resourceful. I’ll give you that much.’ Sala lifted Russo’s chin and kissed her on the mouth, ‘Now, is that everything, or do we need to search that chest of drawers again?’ 


These thoughts consumed Russo the next morning when she woke. God, it was early … Gianna Sala lay on her front, propped up on her elbows. She swept her hair back and smiled, comfortable in her own nudity. ‘I’m sorry about everything that has happened with him, Roberta. But we have a job to do. You got too close to Meroni. Mixing business with pleasure is never a good thing.’
‘Really? So, what would you call this? Because last time you were here, you stole my program, spritzed the place, and then left without saying goodbye.’ 
‘I can assure you, Roberta, this is definitely pleasure. But we need to talk business.’ She held up a memory stick. ‘I’m intrigued by how this software actually works.’
Russo reinstalled the program on her computer and entered the password. Sala wrote it down.
‘Lafarfallagranata7 – what is that?’
‘The Maroon Butterfly. It’s a Torino thing. Luigi Meroni. He was the George Best of Italian football in the 1960s.’
‘Would that be the same as in Luca Gigi Meroni?’
‘Coincidence or what? He hates being called “Gigi” by the way.’
‘I bet. But isn’t the password a bit too obvious?’
‘You lot didn’t crack it. And the false password I gave Gambarella yesterday at the debrief will only get him so far with the program before it freezes.’
‘Roberta, why would you do that? Inspector Gambarella is on our side.’
‘Is he, really?’
‘Look, no worries …’ Sala blew out her cheeks and ruffled her hair. ‘I’ll deal with that slight problem later. Come on, show me what this thing does.’
Russo gave Sala a tour of the Internet and took the detective inspector to virtual places she had never been before. Many search engines could lead users to the extreme side of the web. But with this program, Russo could surf covertly and breach firewalls at will. Like The Onion Router, it provided a zero digital footprint and instant access to the darkest of places. The algorithms that created a psychometric connection to the user distinguished it from other encrypted programs accessible to law enforcement agencies. They had asked her to experiment with Meroni, and it had passed all the field tests to date.
Russo took Sala through the steps which had led her to track the white van to Caserta. Then, within a matter of clicks, she was able to trace the same van to a side street in the Spanish Quarter of Naples. That was where she would have directed Meroni if no one had interrupted her. Chances were, he would make it there by himself. He was that capable.
‘Reply to his text, Roberta. We must move him on from Caserta.’
Russo eyed Sala. ‘Gianna, he isn’t in any danger, is he? Because if he is, I’ll just hit the kill switch on this little beast and that will be the end of it all. Trust me, nobody could ever get this bad girl back up and running.’
‘What does it matter to you? With this search engine, you’re going to be rich. You’ll be free to do whatever you want.’
‘How will I get rich? I’ve already signed the NDA and contract binding me to the Polizia di Stato and Carabinieri for the next ten years. The program will be replicated a thousand times over and practically obsolete by the time I get the rights back …’ Russo slumped in her chair. ‘Meroni’s my friend. I know, I shouldn’t have let him get to me. But I’ve got this feeling … You’re going to be asking me to put him in a compromising position again. Just like in Bari.’
‘He’ll be safe. This has always been the bigger plan. Bari was just the prologue. This part of the operation is Meroni’s true life story.’ Sala kissed Russo on the head. ‘He hasn’t come to any harm yet, has he?’
‘Up to now – no. But what about beyond now?’
Sala held out the burner phone. ‘That all depends on how he reacts to the message you are going to send him. If he is as intuitive as you claim, he will be fine – if he just follows the breadcrumb trail to the right gingerbread house in the Spanish Quarter.’
Russo took the phone and typed the van’s location in Naples. ‘That’s it. No more. I’m done with all this shit. Now, tell me what is really happening? Gambarella wouldn’t be drawn, but Meroni is convinced there is a British involvement.’
‘Take my word for it, we can count on Gambarella. The British? They’re too arrogant. They’re not interested in anything other than themselves. They think they are the key players in this so-called War on Terror. If we can keep Meroni on the move, he’ll be okay.’
There it was. The confirmation of British involvement. Exactly how Meroni had called it. The British were merciless in their pursuit of their enemies. Devious too. They were complicit with both the Camorra and the Italian authorities in this operation. They were not arrogant; they were ruthless.
‘Listen Roberta, everything will be fine.’
‘How can I be sure we’re not putting him at more risk?’
‘He will be okay. It’s all part of the game.’
‘The game, the game – it’s all I hear. What is the fucking game?’
‘This operation – it’s all one big fucking game, Roberta. Meroni will be safe. If only you can keep him on track, and he sticks to the rules …’

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 36


05:30 Friday 27 October 2017
Villa Kristina, Caserta
Bianca was still asleep. Meroni slipped off the bed. He crept out of the room, dressed in the hallway, then descended the hotel via the stairs to avoid the ping of the lift doors opening so as not to wake her.
The concierge sat at the reception desk, engrossed in a movie on his smartphone. 
‘Buongiorno, signore. You are up early this morning.’
Meroni glanced at the clock behind the concierge.
Just gone 05:30. God, it was early.
After they got back from the nightclub, he had written a note to Bianca whilst she was in the shower. He thanked her for getting him out of the tight spot in Cassino, but it was time for her to go back to Rome. Things could get dangerous.
‘Please could you give this to the lady in room seven when she comes down? She gave strict instructions not to be disturbed too early.’ Meroni handed the envelope to the concierge. ‘And her car key will be with the vehicle.’
‘Certo.’
Meroni settled the bill. Another expense claim to be sent to Gambarella. In the car park, he unlocked Bianca’s car and retrieved the mobile phone he had secreted under the passenger seat on the drive down from Castro dei Volsci. 
He turned the phone on and scrolled through his messages. 
Meroni had told Bianca the same lie as Gambarella, that the Camorra had taken his mobile when they had abducted him. He’d told Russo he was using a burner phone. But she had sent two messages to his original mobile. Which was strange. Either she had forgotten about the burner phone, or she had got distracted by the detective from Siena. Likely the latter.
The first message said: Be Careful. Sent after her “heavy night”. A drunken text. Meroni hit delete. The other text was more interesting. It came from a number he didn’t recognise, but it was obvious it was from Russo. Perhaps she was using a burner too and hadn’t stored his “new” number.
Russo's text read:  Fiat Ducato hitting cameras near to the Via Toledo, Spanish Quarter, Naples. Search for The hand of God in Vico Giardonetto.
Nicoletta had given him the same instructions before the bouncers escorted him from Il Ragazzo D’Oro.
Meroni left the key to the Fiesta on the driver’s seat. Looking back at the hotel, he waved at the CCTV camera. The concierge unlocked the gate and Meroni walked the deserted streets of Caserta towards the designated rendezvous point. He had called Teresa Conti after returning to the hotel last night, telling her to pick him up outside the Masanielli Pizzeria on Via Trento.
She was waiting in a dark blue BMW 8 series. 
Meroni got into the car.
‘You don’t smell that bad for somebody who has had to sneak out of a hotel room,’ she said.
‘I showered last night.’
‘Was that before, or after, you slept with your colleague?’
‘Nice wheels, Teresa.’
She swung the car out of the parking spot. ‘You spend the night with an attractive, young blonde and expect me to believe you didn’t have sex with her?’
Meroni rolled his eyes. ‘They tasked her with following me. I haven’t figured out what her part is yet, but she’s not a rookie cop. I’ll have words with Gambarella later. I’ve left her a note telling her to go back to Rome.’
‘That’s sweet. You romantic fool … You smell like you had sex.’
‘Seriously, Teresa? I’ve had a good think about a lot of things over the past couple of days. I’m a changed man. Let’s just say I’ve been given a history lesson.’
‘This should be interesting. Do tell …’
Teresa was a good listener. That much he already knew. It was an essential part of her job as a journalist. Still, it surprised him to learn that she knew all about the “Moroccan Deeds”. She told him that when she was a teenager, she had read Alberto Moravia’s book Two Women. When she saw the film adaptation, La Ciociara, she vowed that when she grew up, she too would be a strong independent woman like Sophia Loren’s character, Cesira.
Once more, Meroni questioned his lack of knowledge of the Marocchinate. Teresa suggested it was because his mother had wanted to protect him. Protect him from what? Meroni didn’t buy that explanation. His mother was a straight talker. When he was a boy, if she ever overheard a racist comment or a snide remark about the colour of his skin, a wild torrent of invective would assail the abuser. Many people had cowered from her clenched fists. When he would ask what the person had said to make her so angry, his mother would tell him. She believed it right for him to know. Ignorance, she said, was the cause of all their fear.
Why did the woman who had defended his honour as a child remain silent about the atrocities? Meroni felt an ache in his heart, the same feeling that had overwhelmed him at the Alla Mamma Ciociaria monument. All this had a deeper connection. It wasn’t just a coincidence of geography. It went beyond that. This investigation was taking him on a journey of personal discovery. 
‘When this is all over, can I have the story, Meroni?’ 
‘You know as well as I do this goes beyond newsworthy, Teresa. Have any more murders hit the mainstream media?’
‘Not to my knowledge.’
‘What does that tell you?’
‘Dark forces are at work.’ Teresa pulled a scared face.
‘You may joke. But just how dark are they? That’s what I want to know. There’s a British connection. We know three males have been murdered, and they were all North African. I’m going to guess they were from Morocco. Although everybody I spoke to in Cassino, said my mother had taken in Israeli students.’
‘Where are the Israeli students now?’
‘Good question. I think they are dead Moroccans.’
‘You know what, Meroni? I have a strange feeling you may be right.’
The Autostrada del Sole was quiet, and the manner of Teresa’s driving ensured they made rapid progress. They drove beyond Naples towards Sorrento. The family of Meroni’s old friend Stefano Abbadelli owned a farmhouse in the hills overlooking the town. Meroni had contacted him after leaving the hotel, asking if there was a spare room. A safe space. It would buy time to think; to consider his part in the endgame.
‘What do you know about Diego Maradona?’
‘Are you kidding me?’
‘I know you don’t do football, Teresa, but Diego Maradona – you must have heard of him? And please keep your eye firmly on the road. There are lots of scooters on this stretch.’
‘Diego Armando Maradona. One of the greatest footballers of all time. Played in Argentina for Boca Juniors, in Spain – for Barcelona … I know, technically it’s Catalonia, but let’s not confuse the issue. He joined Napoli and helped the team win their first Scudetto in 1987 and their second championship in 1990 … He led his country to the World Cup Final in 1986 – which they won against West Germany; and, again in 1990 when they lost to what was still West Germany … I don’t recall the exact date when the Berlin Wall came down. Did I pass the Maradona test?’
‘Teresa, you are a regular walking encyclopaedia.’
‘I did a piece on him years ago for Il Messaggero. Don’t forget, I’m paid to do my research, and I know … everything.’
‘Except the date of German reunification.’
‘True. I’ll give you that one. Anyway, you are the giocatore di calcio, you know all this. Why all the questions about our Argentine friend?’
Meroni scratched at the stubble on his chin. ‘Because we are on the trail of a little plastic football figure.’
‘The ones with an enormous head?’ 
Meroni nodded. 
‘I love those.’ Teresa clapped.
‘Hands!’ Meroni said, grabbing the steering wheel.
‘Whoops!’
A horn beeped. Meroni checked his wing mirror. There was nothing God-like about the moped rider’s hand gestures.
Teresa placed one hand back on the wheel and touched his leg with the other. ‘Now, exactly where is this love palace you’re taking me to?


When they reached Sorrento, they took the steep winding roads up into the hills beyond the town. Turning into a small square, Teresa slowed the car. ‘Where to now Meroni? It’s a dead end.’
‘See that track? We need to go up there.’
‘You’re kidding? This is a brand-new BMW! I will not squeeze eighty thousand euros worth of hire car through a gap that narrow; besides, I do not wish to lose the deposit.’
‘In which case, we’ll have to get out and walk. Park up in that space over there. The car will be perfectly safe.’ 
‘Now you really are joking. It will get stolen. I don’t trust the Neapolitans.’
‘Teresa, around here they’re Sorrentini. You cannot brand all southerners as thieves.’
‘Oh, hark at the scugnizzo. The little street urchin from Cassino who stole my heart.’
Meroni opened Teresa’s door and held out his hand. ‘May I carry your bag for a minor consideration, signora?’
‘The only consideration I need is coffee, a cigarette, and sex … and in that strict order.’
Meroni grabbed Teresa’s laptop bag and led the way up. The road was barely wide enough for a small car, let alone the BMW. At one stage, a Lambretta came hurtling down the hill towards them and a battered old Fiat 500 honked from behind. They squeezed into a doorway as the vehicles inched around each other.
‘And you wanted me to drive up? How much further is it? I can’t go on in these heels.’
‘Just up here … past the church. Your shoes are as impractical as your car – city girl.’ Meroni took Teresa’s hand and dragged her up behind him.
Landscaped gardens with lemon trees, grapevines, and pomegranate shrubs surrounded Villa Abbadelli. The family had converted the farmhouse into an agriturismo. The last of the season’s tourists were eating breakfast on the terrace. An old golden retriever came out barking, followed by a woman with a cigarette hanging out of her mouth. She carried a basket of eggs, and a loaf of bread wrapped in a muslin cloth.
‘Stop barking, Guido …’ The woman called back over her shoulder. ‘Stefano, your friend from Rome is here! Ciao, Luca. Come stai?’
‘I’m all good, Sandra. How are you?’ asked Meroni.
Sandra Abbadelli gave a curt nod and looked Teresa up and down. ‘Buongiorno signora.’
Teresa let her hand slip from Meroni’s grasp.
Sandra disappeared into the villa.
Stefano Abbadelli came bounding after the dog.
‘Luca! Well, this is a surprise – I couldn’t believe it when you messaged to say you were coming. You were up early!’
The two men hugged.
Stefano broke free and advanced towards Teresa. He held out his arms and embraced her with air kisses.
‘Come bella! Luca, you’re out of your league with this beautiful lady.’
Teresa played it coy. ‘Pleased to meet you, Stefano.’ 
‘The pleasure is all mine. Come, let me show you to your room.’ Stefano took Teresa by the hand. ‘So, what brings you two lovebirds to Sorrento at this ungodly hour?’ He looked over his shoulder and winked at Meroni.
‘Business, Stefano.’
‘Really?’ Stefano nudged Teresa in the ribs.
She grimaced at Meroni. ‘As Luca said, purely business.’ 
The room was small. It did not matter. Meroni had figured they wouldn’t be staying long. He just needed a base within easy reach of Naples.
Stefano ushered Teresa out to the terrace. With a wave of his hand, he invited her to admire the view over the Gulf of Naples.
‘It’s wonderful, Stefano.’ Teresa leaned on the balcony and looked out towards the blue waters.
Meroni watched her light a cigarette, close her eyes, and allow her thoughts to drift on the sea breeze.
The magic came crashing back down to earth when a neighbour burst into song.
Stefano placed a hand on his chest. ‘He was on Italia’s Got Talent. He sings at some bars in town.’
Teresa turned. ‘Which ones?’
‘Do you want to go? Wait, I’ll ask him where he’s performing tonight.’
Meroni grabbed his friend. ‘No, Stefano, please. Just tell us the places to avoid.’
‘A pair of jokers, eh? You’ll regret that. I’ll get him to sing all day and night. Opera –his Rigoletto is to die for … I’m kidding. He’ll be leaving for work soon. You must be hungry after such an early start? Breakfast is served until ten, or I can have something brought up. Coffee?’
‘Coffee would be good, Stefano. Can you drive us into Sorrento town later?’
‘What time?’
Meroni looked at his phone. It was just after eight. ‘Say, 13:00 hours?’
Stefano raised his eyebrows and nudged Teresa.
Meroni gave him a hand gesture, telling his old friend to get on his way.
Stefano disappeared. 
Meroni walked up behind Teresa and kissed the side of her neck. ‘Tell me the password to your laptop.’
She blew smoke out towards Vesuvius and pushed back against him.
‘Later.’ Teresa crushed the cigarette on the concrete balustrade. ‘Call Stefano and tell him we’ll skip breakfast …’

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 37




08:10 FRIDAY 27 OCTOBER 2017 - INTERNAL. GRAND HOTEL, SORRENTO
Transcription: Sig.ra Lucrezia De Valla Polizia di Stato, Questura di Roma


AGENT X:‘Hello.’
ABBADELLI:​‘MERONI is here …’
AGENT X:‘Is he with her?’
ABBADELLI:​‘LA CAGNA – yes …’
AGENT X:‘Her real name, please.’
ABBADELLI:​‘TERESA CONTI.’
AGENT X:‘Thank you. Where are they both now?’
ABBADELLI:​‘In their room.’
AGENT X:‘Do not let MERONI leave … Do you understand, Abbadelli?’
ABBADELLI:​‘Si, capito.’
AGENT X:‘In English, please …’
ABBADELLI:​‘Yes, I understand.’
AGENT X:‘There’s a good boy, Stefano. They will send someone over to collect him soon.’
ABBADELLI:​‘What about the other guests?’
AGENT X:‘That’s your problem. DON SALVATORE CARMINO sends his best wishes …’


Transcript Ends

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 38


08:20 Friday 27 October 2017
Villa Abbadelli, Sorrento
Again, he had given in to violent temptation. Meroni felt Teresa’s body tense. A sudden intake of breath, and her fingers gripped his back. He pulled away from the kiss. She smiled with eyes closed, before the shadow crept across her face. Meroni glanced in the dressing-table mirror. There, he saw the true reflection of menace.
Someone was pointing a gun at his head.
His muscles tensed.
Teresa’s eyes flashed open.
A scream.
Meroni rolled off the bed, scrambled across the floor, and pushed through the doors leading to the terrace.
One thought: to distance himself from the danger.
The terrace ran the entire length of the villa, with large clay pots delineating the boundaries for each guest room. A young couple were sitting at a table enjoying their breakfast with a glorious view across the Bay of Naples. At the sight of the shirtless Meroni sprinting towards them, they both stood up.
The male took one look at Meroni’s face and adopted a fighting stance.
Meroni barged straight through him and knocked him to the floor; he pirouetted and sidestepped the female. As he ran, he calculated the distance to the ground. About three metres. He might make the drop by gripping the balustrade and hanging from the ledge. A thought struck him. He may be bare-chested, but thank God, he still had his jeans and trainers on.
He checked over his shoulder. The young couple had been stunned to silence, the anxious male had got back up and wrapped protective arms around the trembling female. They turned their heads to the gunman who was running in the opposite direction – back towards Meroni’s room.
He listened. No more screams.
Teresa was not the one in danger.
Meroni clambered over the terrace wall, held onto the ledge for balance, and took a deep breath.
He plummeted to earth and tumbled backwards into a bush. The thorns scraped at his skin. He manoeuvred himself onto his front, stumbling to his feet, only to be hit again by the searing pain in his battered ribs.
An engine spluttered.
Meroni ran towards the sound, bursting through a line of washing and grabbed at a black T-shirt.
Stefano was sitting in the driver’s seat of a Suzuki Carry minibus. Two middle-aged women with floppy straw hats sat in the middle seats. Meroni slammed the sliding door shut on them, opened the passenger door of the cab, and jumped in.
Stefano stared at him.
‘Drive!’
‘Luca, we’re waiting for the other guests …’
Meroni pointed to the gunman, who was now running down the steps to the garden being chased by Guido. ‘Just fucking drive!’
Stefano floored the accelerator. The minibus skidded out of the parking area and sped down the hill.
The two women held onto their hats and voiced their protests.
‘Ignore the Americani!’ Meroni pulled the T-shirt over his head and looked down at the design: white light passing through a prism and emerging as a rainbow of colour. Pink Floyd: Live at Pompeii … ‘Are you shitting me?’ 
Stefano shrugged. ‘It is what it is.’
‘What is going on, Stefano? Have you betrayed me to the Camorra?’
‘You wouldn’t understand, Luca.’ Stefano had his eyes fixed on the narrow road as he searched for any obstruction that would impede their progress. He kept stealing glances in the rearview mirror.
‘Try me.’
‘Someone called earlier. They said you would come … with the reporter. They knew everything. They called two minutes after you sent your text. Fuck! I already owe them enough money as it is!’
‘Why do you owe the Camorra money, Stefano?’
‘They charge rent … for the land.’
‘But your family owns the villa.’
‘Define what ownership means on the Neapolitan Riviera. That’s how things work around here. Living in the shadow of Vesuvius is one thing, the Camorra are far more dangerous than a dormant volcano.’
Stefano arrowed the vehicle between the stone walls that enveloped them. It felt like they were hurtling down a bobsleigh run.
Meroni looked back. Close behind them, an elderly man buzzed along on an ancient Piaggio.
The two American women were scowling.
Meroni fixed them with his best smile. He spoke in English. ‘Ladies, please accept my sincerest apologies. I’m sorry for the … inconvenience. My friend will drive back to the villa to collect any travelling companions. And I will arrange for a bottle of wine to be served with your dinner this evening. How does that sound?’
‘Was that some other man’s wife you were with?’ one woman asked.
Meroni placed his hands together in mock prayer. ‘Alas, ladies, I have but sinned. A forbidden fruit tempted me, and then I ended up in the thorn bushes.’ He showed them the scratches on his arms.
‘That reminds me of a story about Saint Benedict.’ It was the other woman who spoke. ‘The Devil tried to tempt him with a little black bird that transformed into a beautiful woman … They say he threw himself into a thorn bush to rid himself of all desire.’ She was small and enthusiastic. The autumn sun had turned her pale skin rose pink. Temperatures in Sorrento could still hit over twenty degrees centigrade in October.
Meroni’s hands went to his chest. ‘I’m afraid I don’t have the same fortitude as Saint Benedict. I always give in to temptation.’
The minibus entered the square at the bottom of the hill. Meroni spotted a white Fiat Ducato van parked next to Teresa’s BMW.
The driver pulled out as they raced past.
A loud crunch of metal.
‘Oh, I say!’ said the pink lady.
The Piaggio spun across the road. The old man, miraculously unscathed, got to his feet and stood resolutely in front of the Fiat Ducato, which was now stuck fast.
‘Should we stop?’ said the second woman.
‘Best to leave them to sort it out between themselves. It’s been quite an education for you two ladies, this morning: murderous husbands and road rage. Welcome to Italy! Drive on, Stefano. You can take me to the sawmill.’
Meroni looked at his former calcio colleague. Had he put his own interests before their friendship? How could the Camorra have known? Then he thought about Teresa. Strange how she was always thereabouts when people were trying to gun him down. Was it a coincidence? True, she wasn’t in Cassino when they abducted him; but two days ago, she was at his apartment; and she was standing in front of the Teatro dell’Opera when someone shot at him on his Vespa.
‘When did they contact you?’
‘Who?’
Meroni raised an eyebrow. ‘Your friends, the Camorra.’
‘They are not friends of mine.’ Stefano ran a trembling hand through his hair. ‘I told you … someone called me earlier this morning, immediately after you messaged.’
Who knew he was here?
Meroni had rung Teresa from the Caserta hotel late last night. He had informed her they were heading to Sorrento, but not where they were staying. Besides, she didn’t know Stefano. What about Bianca? He hadn’t told her he was leaving this morning. Returning from the nightclub, she went straight to their room. He said he needed a cigarette and had made the call to Teresa to arrange the rendezvous from the garden at the hotel. It couldn’t have been Bianca.
Who could it have been then?
Meroni pulled out his mobile phone from his jeans pocket and examined it. The screen protector had a bubble in the bottom left-hand corner which, try as he might, he could never push out. In Rome, a screen protector was essential. He’d lost count of the number of screens he’d cracked after dropping his phone on the cobblestones.
There was no bubble.
Meroni scrutinised the phone case. A distressed image of the AS Roma team badge, showing Romulus and Remus suckling from the she-wolf. This was not his phone. The plastic should have a crack where the ringer button poked through. It had broken because of the constant need to switch the mobile to silent mode. He removed the case and picked at the metal disc stuck to the back of the phone. He had used a magnetic car phone holder when driving in Bari. After the operation, he had returned the car. Since then, he had changed SIM cards but hadn’t changed phones, and had not removed the metal disc.
It came away too easily. The glue was clear and fresh. Meroni studied the circuit board stamped into the metal.
He took the burner phone and unclipped the back. On the inside of the plastic cover, a metal disc with a circuit board imprinted on it.
Someone was monitoring his every move.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 39


08:20 Friday 27 October 2017
Russo’s Apartment, Via Sistina, Rome
The camera zooms out to reveal a sign displaying the opening hours for The Greek Orthodox Monastery of Saint George Lod. The focus is now on the Archpriest, dressed in his black robes and Kalimavkion hat. 
‘This church is built on the site of his mother’s house …’ The priest talks as he leads the camera through the nave of the church. Footsteps echo on stone. The camera shows a gold chandelier hanging above a white frescoed altar. ‘They built the original church over his tomb. He wanted to be buried here, in his hometown.’
A female voice off-camera. British. ‘Can you show us the tomb?’
‘Of course, the crypt is down these steps … mind your head.’
The screen goes black before the camera cuts to a close-up of a marble sarcophagus.
The female voice: ‘Tell us more about Saint George.’
The priest continues his narrative. ‘He was a Roman soldier who was martyred on the twenty-third of April three hundred years after the death of Christ. The Greeks, Georgians, and the British all have the cross of Saint George on their flag, and many other countries revere him.’ The priest points to a painting on the wall of the crypt. ‘This icon depicts Saint George’s martyrdom. The Romans sentenced him to death because he would not renounce Christianity. As you can see, they boiled him, tied him to the outside of a chariot wheel and then tortured him with knives.’
The female voice again: ‘How was he eventually killed?’
The camera closes in on the icon. The priest gestures towards the painting. ‘They beheaded him.’
The tortured face of a young male fills the screen. A grey bombetta sits at a comical angle on his head. The camera view widens, showing him in a tweed jacket with a sheet of paper pinned to his chest. Another close-up. A green and yellow framed certificate with the word “Sample” stamped across it.
The passenger record reads: “First Name: Antonio; Last Name: Pacitto; Nationality: Italy, Italian South; Last Place of Residence: Cassino, Caserta.”
A struggle ensues.
Then the sound of screams.
Allahu Akbar!
The camera settles on the prostrate figure of the young male.
God is Greater! 
The gilded flash of a sword blade slices the screen and severs the head from its body.
Blood splatters the camera lens.
The female voice shouts: ‘Cut!’


Russo closed the lid of the laptop. Meroni had figured there would be seven killings.
If only she could message him again, tell him he was on the right path, and to just keep following the trail of clues … then he would be safe.
But they were scrutinising her actions now.
Gambarella and Sala would know she had viewed this latest video.
They had wanted her to find it. It was a test, to see if she would try to contact Meroni again.
The stakes were getting higher.
The British were playing a deadly game of poker with their War on Terror, and the Italian authorities sole focus was getting Carmino – nothing else mattered.
Meroni was the joker in the pack; and he was being forced to play the big blind.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 40




08:30 FRIDAY 27 OCTOBER 2017 - INTERNAL. GRAND HOTEL, SORRENTO
Transcription: Sig.ra Lucrezia De Valla Polizia di Stato, Questura di Roma


CARMINO:‘Pronto.’
AGENT X:‘Buongiorno, Don Salvatore.’
CARMINO:‘Who is this?’
AGENT X:‘An old friend … from England.’
CARMINO:‘Yes. I remember who you are now. Tell me, is MERONI on his way to Naples as you promised?’
AGENT X:‘I’m assured he is. Now, I must remind you about our strict instructions.’
CARMINO:‘I already told you. No harm will come to MERONI. He is family, and we have a shared history.’
AGENT X:‘Yes, Signor CARMINO, a history of which he is blissfully ignorant.’
CARMINO:‘Then I will teach him history. Is she with him, this reporter from Rome?’
AGENT X:‘She is … and she will tell the world how DON SALVATORE CARMINO, has given work and shelter to poor migrants entering Europe; how he has helped the British fight the War on Terror. HONI SOIT QUI MAL Y PENSE …’
CARMINO:‘What does this mean?’
AGENT X:‘SHAME ON HIM WHO THINKS EVIL OF IT.’
CARMINO:‘I like that. I might adopt it as my motto. What about the Italian authorities? Have you taken care of them?’
AGENT X:‘We have their undivided attention. Because, Signor CARMINO, we all know what happened when SAINT GEORGE met the dragon. And that is the history lesson we are delivering to the world.’


Transcript Ends

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 41


08:30 Friday 27 October 2017
Circumvesuviana, Sorrento
Meroni jumped out of the minibus at Vallone dei Mulini, a historic valley of disused flour and sawmills near to Sorrento town centre. No more time to lose, all roads were leading him to Naples. He banged the side of the Suzuki Carry. The American ladies waved; they appeared to have enjoyed their little adventure. 
Meroni waited for Stefano to drive away before he threw both mobile phones into the green abyss of the valley. 
Now he was on his own.
First, he needed new clothes. It wouldn’t take long for the Camorra, or whoever else was tracking him, to realise he had disposed of the phones and, despite his being so recognisable, Meroni wanted to try to get as close as possible to The hand of God on his own terms. Call it professional pride.
Sorrento bustled on market day. Meroni blended into the crowd, picking out a black jacket and a couple of nondescript baseball caps from a stall. He paid with his debit card; he had given the last of his cash to the student sat outside the nightclub in Caserta. Thankfully, he had his wallet in the back pocket of his jeans at the time the Camorristi entered the bedroom at Villa Abbadelli. Usually, he kept it in his jacket pocket, which he had left in the boot of the hire car. He remembered to take his wallet because he couldn’t trust the car would be safe from thieves, despite his assurance to Teresa.
The early start and the morning’s events had left him mind blown, and his body was shaking. Adrenalin and a lack of caffeine. He was in desperate need of a coffee, so he withdrew cash from an ATM, and ducked into a bar near to the train station to gather his thoughts and plan his next move.


Despite the season nearing its end, tourists filled the entrance to Sorrento train station. Some stood in queues, eager to catch buses to the Amalfi coast, while others waited to buy tickets for the Circumvesuviana train, which would transport them to the historic sites of Pompeii and Herculaneum. Naples was for the brave.
Meroni had lingered on the platform. Watching. He jumped on the train just as the doors closed and took a seat in the end carriage, so he had a full view of anybody approaching. A young couple caught his eye. Newlyweds, on honeymoon, standing with their suitcases, eyes only for each other. The girl captivated Meroni. Her mousy hair and flawless olive skin emphasised her cornflour-blue eyes. She wore a simple shift-dress, the colour matched her eyes. Meroni watched them kiss and craved their innocence. The grass was always a shade greener if you imagined living in blissful ignorance of the criminal underworld. 
The initial stop on the line was Sant’Agnello, and it brought the first band of wandering musicians. An Asian family made their way up the carriage, the father playing a guitar with only four strings, accompanied by a waif of a girl banging a tambourine. The mother, who held out the cap to collect any money, followed them. When they saw Meroni, they turned back.
Meroni inspected his grazed hands. His appearance suggested he’d been in a fight. The sleeves of the jacket covered the marks on his arms, and the horrendous Pink Floyd T-shirt, but the wounds to his hands were still visible. More likely, they took him for a straniero. A foreigner. Like them.
An adolescent male, dressed as if he had just got off a basketball court, stared at Meroni. He was standing in the doorway between carriages, wearing a Lakers vest and gym shorts, with his arms raised, holding onto the door frame.
Meroni returned the gaze, looking the overgrown scugnizzo up and down. He pulled in his knees and sat up straight. His body ached, but he was past caring about the pain and was up for any fight. Fortunately, the male blinked first; with a nonchalant swagger, he moved back down the carriage. Only then did Meroni notice he was missing his right hand and had masked the stump with a towelling wristband. These Neapolitan types were rough and ready. Tough sorts. Russo’s pet phrase came back to him: Fat and lazy. He made a mental note to get back in the gym as soon as he returned to Rome.
At the next stop, a woman with long raven curls, wearing a sleeveless top and jean shorts, took the seat opposite. Meroni guessed she was about his age. She ran her hands through her hair, revealing unshaved armpits. Meroni couldn’t help but stare. The woman glared back. Eyes the colour of coal. 
Her phone rang. ‘Pronto.’ Her voice was harsh, gravelly. 
‘Well, hi there!’
Meroni looked up. It was the American ladies from Stefano’s minibus. Two older men, sporting baseball caps, accompanied them. They had gone back for their travelling companions. He responded with a mute wave.
‘Fancy seeing you again!’
Why did Americans always have to shout?
Meroni didn’t quite catch the expletives muttered in Neapolitan dialect, as the pink lady sat down beside the woman opposite. In a general sense, her words translated as: American whore with the face of a fish. 
Rude. Meroni stifled a laugh. 
The woman ruffled her curls, smiled back, and then stared out of the train window.
Meroni shifted as one of the American males claimed the vacant seat next to him.
The pink lady pointed over her shoulder. ‘We just met up with another guest from Villa Abbadelli. This is …’
Meroni didn’t need any introduction.
‘You left without saying goodbye,’ Teresa spoke in English.
‘Do you two know each other?’ Pink lady grinned. 
‘We’re old friends,’ said Teresa.
The pink lady turned crimson. Her friend put a hand to her mouth. They exchanged knowing glances and giggled. No prizes for guessing their topic of conversation at dinner this evening.
Meroni also put two-and-two together. Upon their return to the villa, to collect their male travel companions, Teresa Conti had boarded Stefano’s minibus.
How would she have known he would catch the Circumvesuviana?
The family of musicians returned. The woman presented the hat. Teresa ignored her. The Americans looked away. This time the woman turned to Meroni. He dropped a ten-euro note into the hat.
The woman with the raven curls frowned. ‘It is not advisable to encourage them.’
‘Who? The immigrants or the Americani?’
‘Both,’ she said.
Tough sorts, these Neapolitans.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 42


09:15 Friday 27 October 2017
Questura di Roma, Rome
Russo scanned Gambarella’s desk. She admired a man who worked amongst such chaos. A man after her own heart. Almost, but not quite. She was on the same spectrum as Meroni, albeit a little lower down the neatnik scale. Russo watched Gianna Sala, who was pacing the room, hands on skinny hips. The jacket had returned. The results-driven detective was back.
Gambarella was sitting on the edge of his desk, arms folded. Some might think his body language was synonymous with the misogynous police stereotype. A power pose. But Russo saw a man under pressure.
‘I don’t understand,’ she said.
‘Russo, we have lost contact with Meroni. We think both his phones are compromised. We cannot find him.’
‘What do you mean, both phones?’
‘Has Meroni responded to the text you sent earlier this morning? Sala told me about that.’
‘No, he hasn’t.’
Sala stopped pacing. ‘Roberta, this is important. I didn’t know about the phones going offline until Inspector Gambarella told me.’
‘No …’ Russo repeated. ‘He hasn’t responded.’
‘Meroni’s mobiles were both turned off this morning in Sorrento. About one hour ago,’ said Gambarella.
Russo eyed her questioners. ‘He told me the Camorra had taken his phone. At least, I assumed that was what he meant when he said he had run into them in Cassino. I couldn’t remember the number of his burner phone. I guess that is why he hasn’t answered. But then, I sent the text via my spare phone. I don’t have the other one because you took that with my laptop  …’
Sala threw her hands in the air.
Gambarella took a deep breath. ‘He lied to me, too. He had two phones when he arrived in Caserta, but he only used the burner phone to communicate. You’ve got unanswered calls from him on your mobile phone.’
‘Which you took from me; so, what exactly is going on?’
Gambarella rubbed his forehead. ‘Russo … please, listen. He was with Daniela Bianca.’
‘That’s who the rookie is …’ Russo nodded to herself. It all makes sense now.’
Gambarella pushed away from the desk and paced in front of her. ‘Meroni gave her the slip in Caserta. He called Teresa Conti. She travelled down to Caserta; this morning, both their numbers hit the cell towers travelling south on the Autostrada del Sole. Then, Meroni’s original, the burner phone, and Teresa Conti’s mobile all hit masts somewhere on the outskirts of Sorrento around 07:00 hours. Now, both of Meroni’s phones are pinging close to the town centre around Vallone dei Mulini. Teresa has called me – she still has her phone – she went to the Vallone, but Meroni was not there. Meaning he has dumped both his phones. Probably thrown them down into the valley.’
‘What did you do to his phones?’ asked Russo.
‘They had tracking and listening devices fitted.’ Gambarella looked down at the floor.
‘You bugged Meroni’s phones? What was the purpose of that?’
‘It’s a long story.’
‘I’ve got plenty of time.’
Gambarella walked behind his desk. ‘Roberta …’
‘Enough of the Roberta if you please. It’s not my fucking name!’
‘Russo …’ Gambarella sat down and tapped a finger on his desk. ‘This investigation. Dark forces are at work.’
‘For fuck’s sake, what is this – Star Wars? At what point does Meroni get to meet his real father?’
Gambarella grinned. Stifled a laugh. ‘No, this is the stuff politicians don’t let the public know about. This kind of business is not easily explainable in one hundred and forty characters. It’s beyond most people’s thinking. This encompasses human trafficking, debt bondage, and the Camorra. Operation Hook started in Bari, but the actual story goes way back to Cassino during the Second World War.’
‘And Meroni?’
‘Yes, it involves Meroni. But I don’t know the complete story, Russo. All I know is, it all started when a terrorist cell took rooms in a villa near to Cassino; rooms rented out by Meroni’s mother, Rosetta. The next thing, I have the British calling me saying they’ve done deals with the Camorra. If we help them take out the terrorist cell, they will give us Carmino.’
‘Don Salvatore Carmino, the crime boss?’
Gambarella nodded.
Sala sat down next to Russo. ‘Roberta … sorry. What would Meroni do now? You have his psychometric profile linked to your computer. You’ve studied him. You know how his mind works.’
‘Yes, Russo. What happens next?’ Gambarella leaned forward.
‘If Meroni thinks he’s compromised, he goes to Cassino and reaches for his burner phone.’
‘He already did that, and now he is in Sorrento and has ditched both phones. What does he do next, Russo?’ The inspector put his hands together. ‘Please. What is Plan B?’
‘There isn’t a Plan B. Just like Bari, when they delayed his extraction, and the traffickers beat and raped him … He continued with his mission.’
‘Shit!’ Gambarella buried his head in his hands.
‘You unleashed him, Gamba. He will go looking for The hand of God.’ Russo sat back and folded her arms.
Gambarella turned to Sala and gestured with his palms.
‘I do not know what she’s on about either,’ said the Sienese detective.
The inspector ran a hand across his sweating brow. ‘What are you talking about, Russo?’
‘If I know Meroni, which I believe I do after all this time, that’s where he’ll be going. Direct to the crocodile’s lair in the Spanish Quarter of Naples. Like I told him to in  the text. Now, you tell me exactly what this is all about. Because I don’t think we’re solely hunting down a Camorra crime boss.’
‘Roberta that is no way to speak to a senior officer!’ Sala spun Russo around in her chair and held up an admonishing finger.
Gambarella stood up. ‘No, Sala. Let her hear this … Russo, what I’m about to tell you goes no further than these walls. It goes beyond your original brief. If the British Commander finds out, my career is over. Do you understand?’
They had been drip-feeding her information throughout the operation. What would it be now?
Then, Gambarella told her a sinister story which began in a small village in southern Italy after the Battle of Monte Cassino …

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 43


10:30 Friday 27 October 2017
Metropolitana di Napoli, Naples
Meroni exited the concourse at Napoli Centrale and dodged the slow-moving traffic on Piazza Garibaldi. For the second time in as many days, Meroni had walked out of a train station and onto a piazza named after Italy’s most famous founding father. Wherever we go, there is Rome. Garibaldi’s mantra didn’t hold true in Naples. This place was a law unto itself.
Meroni skipped down the steps to the Metro. He sought his reflection in the shop fronts and mirrors of the Galleria Commerciale, looking for any obvious signs of a follow. He stopped at the ticket machine, pulled a baseball cap out of his jacket pocket, and headed for Linea 1. Upon reaching the barrier he pivoted and walked back the way he had just come, scanning faces as he did a reciprocal. Back in the shopping plaza, he followed the signs for Linea 2, breaking into a jog before jumping on a waiting train just as the doors were closing. 
Meroni scrutinised the lights on the illuminated Metro map above the carriage door. One stop. Piazza Cavour. The carriage was half empty, which made anti-surveillance easier, and free from graffiti. Both came as a pleasant surprise. He thought about Bianca, about Russo and Gambarella. What were they doing to find him? Apart from Teresa, who else was aware he was here? Stefano – would he think to call the local Polizia di Stato? What would he tell them? I’ve got a friend. An ex-footballer, who is now a police officer, I hadn’t seen him in months, but he turned up unexpectedly, and now he’s disappeared after being chased from my mother’s agriturismo by a gun-toting Camorrista.
Unlikely. 
He got off the train at Piazza Cavour, making his way down the tunnel that connected the blue and yellow lines on the Metro map. He walked fast, glancing up at the mirrors to check if anybody was tailing him. The CCTV cameras were everywhere. How far were the Camorra connected? Stupid question. They would be in the control room, watching his every move. The pursuit in Rome was anything but clumsy. His abduction in Cassino, calculating and ruthless. In Caserta, apart from throwing him out of their nightclub, they had ignored him. Now, once more, they had allowed him to escape. He was very much alive. Somebody didn’t want him dead. Why not? Back at the villa, Stefano’s mother would have invented a story for her guests about how the man and the lady were having an affair and her husband, in true Neapolitan style, had sought to exact his revenge on the younger lover. The guests would have laughed. Crazy Italians. 
Teresa getting on the train was no fluke coincidence. She knew he was on that train. Why else would she have caught the Circumvesuviana to Naples? Stefano must have broken the land-speed record in driving her down to the station. What more did she know?
Meroni’s thoughts were racing. He needed to focus. He checked the line direction on the platform signs and ducked onto another waiting Metro train.
One stop: Dante. 
A ticket to hell?
The coincidences were now so spectacular they no longer troubled him. He knew he was getting close to finding out the answer. The problem was he still didn’t know what connected this elaborate sequence of events to him. 
Teresa was sitting at a table in Piazza Dante, clicking the keys of her laptop. She was wearing the baseball cap Meroni had given to her on the Circumvesuviana.
‘Nice disguise. How was your taxi ride?’ Meroni took the seat opposite, giving him a view of the square.
‘A lot quicker than your Metro journey.’ Teresa sipped at her cappuccino. ‘I think you’re looking for this place.’
She pushed her laptop across the table, and Meroni pulled the screen towards him. A black-and-white mural adorned the wall of an alley. An Internet article from 2016 chronicled the story of an Argentine artist who had travelled to Naples and, with the help of a local carpenter, created a monochrome tribute to La mano de Dios – The hand of God goal from the World Cup of 1986. Meroni stared at the image of Maradona in full flight, his hand raised, eyes closed, anticipating the collision with the English goalkeeper, Peter Shilton. A clash that didn’t come. Maradona had run off in stilted celebration, expecting the officials to disallow the goal. But the referee and linesman did not acknowledge what Shilton, the other England players, and the crowd had seen: a deliberate handball. In the post-match interview, Maradona claimed he had won the game “a little with my head and a little with The hand of God.” A legend was born. The notoriety of that moment defined Maradona, the flawed and unrepentant genius. 
‘Where is this?’
‘Vico Giardonetto. Further down the Via Toledo,’ Teresa jerked a thumb over her right shoulder. ‘A ten-minute walk past the Metro station. What are you going to do?’
‘I’m going to find God.’ Meroni stood up.
Teresa grabbed him by the wrist. ‘Listen, Luca, you must trust me on this … please. Simply follow the trail.’
‘How did you know where I had gone after I ran out this morning, Teresa? And how were you able to find me on the Circumvesuviana?’
‘Your credit card. It has a tracking device implanted in it. I took a call … Now is not the time to explain. But it’s not the Camorra who are your true enemy. Please, trust me on this. Keep that credit card on you. Without your mobile phones, your life depends on it.’
Meroni lifted Teresa’s chin and looked into her eyes. She was devious; she had been playing him all along. But he didn’t appreciate until now just how well-connected with the Italian authorities she was.
He didn’t know whether to trust or believe Teresa Conti. 
The difficulty was he didn’t have any choice.
There had never been a Plan B.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

Part 1


OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 44


11:30 Friday 27 October 2017
The Spanish Quarter, Naples
Don Salvatore Carmino flicked the ash from his cigarette. He held up a hand. Aspetta. ‘Wait.’ He pressed the mute button on his mobile. ‘You two go outside. He is here. Now, remember my instructions. He must come to no harm.’
The dog growled. The Neapolitan Mastiff sat obediently at the feet of its master. Don Carmino stroked the dog’s enormous head. ‘Good boy, Vito.’
The two heavy-set Camorristi marched off through the shop.
Don Carmino ended his phone call. ‘Dopo.’ 
See you later.
The Camorra crime boss picked up a packet of Camel cigarettes from his desktop and retrieved the Berretta APX from the drawer. He tugged on the mastiff’s lead and disappeared out the back door of the shop.


Meroni looked up at the sign that hung above the entrance to the narrow street. Quartieri Spagnoli. The Spanish Quarter. He walked amongst the gritty cacophony of life: trattorias, bars, souvenir, and craft shops, until he came to an intersection amongst the claustrophobic streets. There, high on the wall, he saw the mural. La mano de Dios.
Meroni wandered up a side street. 
The Camorristi were standing outside a souvenir shop. He recognised the bald one wearing the brown leather jacket, leaning against the white Fiat Ducato van. He nodded in Meroni’s direction, walked around the front of the van, and opened the passenger side door. 
Meroni took a slow walk. Wherever this was leading, he would continue to follow the trail. He didn’t think about the consequences. He was in mission mode, a chain of motion set in play the moment he had accepted Gambarella’s invitation to visit the grisly scene at the Colosseum.
Nicoletta was sitting inside the cab. Meroni felt a hand on his back. A signal to get in the vehicle. He climbed into the cab and sat on the bench seat next to her. The second Camorrista occupied the driver’s seat. The one from Caserta got in beside Meroni. Again, it would be an uncomfortable journey, much like the one they had forced him to take in Cassino.
They drove at a steady pace through the pinched lanes and seemingly impregnable streets, the van’s horn greeting anybody or anything that dared to get in their way. The one from Caserta nudged Meroni in the ribs, a painful reminder of their encounter in his mother’s kitchen. He pointed to the top of the dashboard.
The tiny plastic figurine stared back at him. 
The driver flashed Meroni a wolfish smile.
Beware false idols. They come to you in sheep’s clothing …
Meroni wondered. Who was listening to his prayers now?

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 45


10:30 Friday 27 October 2017
San Sebastian al Vesuvio, Naples
They drove to an industrial park south of the city. The malevolent Vesuvius ever-watching, guiding the way. They had driven in silence. Meroni had tried to catch Nicoletta’s eye, but she was steadfast, staring ahead with a blank expression. Although on one occasion, he was sure he’d felt her hand on his. The briefest of touches. A reassuring intimacy that said I’m okay. Meroni emptied his mind. He couldn’t afford to overthink things. 
The van stopped next to one of the many sprawling factory units built near an old quarry. This was a soulless place. Long rows of metal-clad buildings and hundreds of steel chimneys conspired to obstruct the view of the iconic volcano. The Camorristi guided Meroni through a low door. A skinny, rodent-like male held it open.
Inside the unit, Meroni saw a hell on earth. The noise and the clamour inside the factory assailed his senses. Raised voices and metallic banging, a cacophony of human sound accompanied by the discordant fusion of music, metal, and machine. Meroni followed behind Nicoletta, who was being dragged along by the driver. They climbed a steel staircase. Meroni looked out across the factory floor. People everywhere, working machinery, cutting, sewing, pressing; others packing the garments into boxes, some driving forklifts transporting the goods to waiting lorries. The faces an atlas of the world. Asian, African, Chinese, Slavs, and travelling Roma were all represented here. It was a Camorra sweatshop. He didn’t dare think about the abysmal pay rates, or what form of debt bondage held these people in servitude.
Upon reaching the top of the staircase, the driver stepped aside and ushered Meroni into an office. 
Don Salvatore Carmino was sitting at his desk. Behind him hung the Holy Trinity of pictures: Jesus Christ, the Pope, and Diego Maradona. The other walls displayed framed football shirts, with the backs of the shirts facing out. All carried the mythical number 10. The most famous shirt number in world soccer. They were all here. The yellow and green of Brazil and Pele. The blaugrana of Barcelona and Messi. White on blue for Zidane of France, and Baggio of Italy. Then the greats of the domestic game. Del Piero of the much-despised Juventus. Ronaldo of Inter. Totti of Meroni’s beloved AS Roma. And of course, Maradona. The sky-blue Napoli shirt hung alongside the light blue and white stripes of Argentina in pride of place behind Carmino’s desk. The hero worship outstripped any devotion to the Pope or Jesus. The sweatshop manufactured the shirts for the tourists who visited the Amalfi coast and wanted to pay homage to their footballing heroes. But the true God was easy money.
A large dog raised its head and sat up on its haunches. It stared at Meroni and growled, baring teeth that could rip through human flesh in seconds.
‘Good boy, Vito.’ The dog lay back down, eyes fixed on its prey.
Carmino stood up and walked towards Meroni with arms extended.
Meroni stood before Italy’s most infamous Camorra leader. He braced himself and felt the powerful hands on his biceps and wiry bristles on his face, as Carmino pulled him in close to embrace. 
Carmino leaned back and smiled. ‘I expect you’re wondering why I have brought you here?’
Meroni nodded. ‘I’m also questioning how I have survived three shootings.’
Carmino’s smile was ice. ‘That is an excellent question.’
‘By rights I should be dead.’
Carmino put his hands in his pockets. ‘That is true, so true … few people live to tell such tales. There is a good reason for this. But first, coffee?’
Refusal was not an option. 
‘Come, sit down and I will enlighten you.’ Carmino walked back behind his desk and nodded to the chair opposite.
Meroni eyed the dog.
‘Don’t mind Vito. He’s just a puppy. His bark is much worse than his bite.’ 
Somehow Meroni doubted this. 
‘You’ve met Paolo …’ Carmino pointed to the bald Camorristi from Caserta, ‘and Mauro …’ he waved a hand at the driver.
The latter nodded in mute acknowledgement.
Meroni felt a pat on his shoulder from Paulo. Mauro then extended a hand. Meroni shook it with reluctance. Carmino signalled their departure with a jerk of his head toward the door.
Meroni took the seat opposite the crime boss.
‘Don’t forget the coffee,’ said Carmino. He patted the chair next to him. ‘Nicoletta, come and sit with me.’
Nicoletta sat down. Impassive. Still avoiding eye contact with Meroni. 
Carmino pointed a remote control at a flatscreen television on an adjacent wall. RaiNews was showing images of a burning car on the Autostrada del Sole. The scrolling ticker reported the emergency services were dealing with a fatal accident between Cassino and Frosinone on the northbound carriageway. 
The door behind Carmino opened.
‘Good afternoon, Mr. Meroni. We meet again.’ 
It was the guy from the Primo Caffè bar in Cassino. He was carrying a tray loaded with four small cups and a stove top coffee maker. He set the tray on Carmino’s desk. ‘Please allow me to introduce myself.’
A man of wealth and taste.
Meroni’s thoughts returned to the sandwich bar near to the Questura. He now understood Gambarella’s theatrics with the note in the soft drink can. It wasn’t a signal to him; it was a sign to this Englishman. He had followed Meroni right from the very start.
‘Speak in Italian, please. My English isn’t that good.’ Carmino poured coffee and passed the espresso cups around.
‘Signor Carmino, may I be permitted to speak first?’ said the Englishman.
Without looking away from the television, Carmino shrugged his acknowledgement.
‘Mr. Meroni, you’re probably wondering what I am doing in southern Italy?’
More specifically, Meroni wanted to know what this Englishman, who yesterday had annotated La Gazzetta dello Sport with red pen spelling the words “La Ciociara” in a coffee bar near to Cassino train station, and who had been sitting in a panini bar reading the same sports paper the day before, was doing in a Camorra clothing factory on the outskirts of Naples. 
The Englishman gazed up at the television. ‘Nasty business. There’s a compelling reason we are in Italy, Mr. Meroni. In your line of policing, I expect you would have been engaged in some counter-terrorism work?’ The Englishman did not wait for Meroni to answer. ‘As you know, terrorists penetrate the European mainland by masquerading as refugees. A dangerous occupation, sailing across the Mediterranean or the English Channel in an unseaworthy vessel, crammed with hundreds of migrants from God knows where … but a suitable cover. All it takes is the death of a child, and an acute attack of conscience strikes the politicians in Strasbourg and Westminster. And while our leaders procrastinate and pay lip service to the media, more doors open for the people traffickers with their promise of a better tomorrow. But then you came along and dealt a serious blow to a human trafficking business in Bari.’
Although he spoke perfect Italian, the Englishman’s verbosity meant Meroni was struggling to keep up with most of what he was saying, but at the mention of Bari he could have sworn he saw Carmino’s jaw clench.
The Englishman set his coffee cup back on the tray. ‘The thing is Mr. Meroni, whilst it is laudable to give alms to your fellow man, the simple fact is there are too many economic migrants. Governments have let the situation get completely out of hand. They have pandered to the liberal elite …’ he pointed at the television screen ‘… and the news outlets. Fuck knows you can’t move without a meddling journalist trying to make a name for themself, and in the bloated world of twenty-four-hour news coverage on mainstream and social media – not to forget the Russian and Arab-backed broadcasters – it is becoming difficult to keep such matters in check. The terrorists are hiding in plain sight.’
Meroni watched and listened.
Carmino twirled the end of his cigarette around an ashtray and slid a packet of Camels across the desk. It was a test. Meroni took one from the carton, picked up a book of matches, and lit his cigarette with a steady hand. 
‘It is a well-documented fact that many of the recent terrorist attacks in Europe – London, Paris, Barcelona, Madrid, and ironically of all places, Brussels – have all involved Islamists born in Morocco, from a specific region of the Rif mountains in the country’s north. The students who rented rooms from your mother were from the city of Tetouan, home to many Jihadists.’
Meroni took a pull on his cigarette.
‘You were told they were from Israel; that’s the story we gave everybody … Signor Carmino, I need to speak with Mr. Meroni in English if you would be so kind as to allow me.’
Carmino pressed a button on the television remote, and the screen filled with images from dozens of CCTV cameras displaying various views of the factory. He nodded at the Englishman and flipped back to RaiNews. Everything was being recorded.
‘Luca, pay close attention …’
Using his first name was a cue.
The Englishman looked Meroni in the eye. ‘This is a long story. A story that originates in the Second World War. Now evil has come back to Europe. And it is our job to defeat it. We cannot play this out in the open; it is far too important.’
‘What have I got to do with any of this?’
‘We’ll come to that later. Please, bear with me, we have little time.’ The Englishman paced the floor in front of Carmino’s desk. ‘There are terror cells in every country – in every major city throughout Europe. My job is to disrupt and dismantle the cells. Leaving no trace.’
‘Every contact leaves a trace,’ said Meroni.
‘Monsieur Locard’s forensic exchange principle has stood the test of time, although it is a little out of date. But we can still use it to our advantage. If the politicians and the journalists kept out of things, we could operate far more effectively.’
The word “operate” told Meroni all he needed to know. This was intelligence work of the highest order. As James Bond himself would say, Semper Occultus – Always Secret.
‘This is where people like your mother enter the story. People with a history who cannot forget the evil barbarism brings. Trust me, this isn’t a war against Islam. This is a fight against terrorism, be it Irish Republicanism, far-right activism, animal rights, fossil fuel campaigners, and the faith-based extremists. When your mother contacted us, it started a chain of events. Three young men from Morocco had sailed on a refugee boat from Libya. When they landed in Sicily, they claimed asylum … and effectively bought their own ticket to hell.’ The Englishman lit a cigarette.
‘How come all the cheesy symbolism? The old-fashioned clothes, the Antonio Pacitto passenger records, and the fucking awful Biglietto Per L’Inferno song?’
The Englishman laughed. ‘Simple. To lure you in. You like a challenge, and we needed to bring you here. Carmino’s inner sanctum was the problem. Despite meeting up with him, we could not get him on his own. That is why we needed you to get involved, so we could infiltrate.’
‘Infiltrate. I don’t understand?’
The Englishman turned to the screen. ‘Such a shame. So young, and such potential. Now, when the shit hits the fan, you need to act fast. Otherwise, you’ll end up dead like your rookie cop colleague …’
Meroni stared at the screen. The charred remains of the car. It was a Ford Fiesta. 
The realisation hit him.
Bianca had died in an inferno.
Carmino pushed a small monochrome photograph over the desk. Meroni pulled his eyes from the horrific images on the screen and studied the photograph. It was a picture of two women in old-fashioned clothing. They were smiling, awkward in their garish peasant attire. Carmino motioned for him to turn the photograph over. 
Meroni read the words written in a swirling script: Queste sono le tue nipoti che sono andate a Castro dei Volsci in abiti tradizionali – “These are your two nieces who went to Castro dei Volsci in traditional dress”. Meroni observed the photograph with its crenelated edges closer. Both women were wearing ciocie, the traditional sandals of the Ciociaria region. Their faces were familiar. They shared his mother’s features.
Two women. 
Carmino sat back in his chair; his arms opened wide. ‘Cugino …’
‘Cousin? What are you talking about?’
Carmino tapped the photograph. ‘The picture was taken shortly after the Battle of Monte Cassino. This is my Bisnonna Franca, and this is her sister Annamaria – your great-grandmother. So, your mother and mine, God rest her soul, were second cousins. That makes us family.’
The cold, bitter smile again.
Meroni did not like that smile. Menace lurked behind the eyes. Meroni had read many briefings on Carmino. They called him the “Crocodile” because of his clothing empire. It was a fact he had made his money manufacturing fake Lacoste polo shirts, but Carmino had earned the nickname through his brutal treatment of enemies.
‘Who would have thought it?’ said Carmino.
‘Who indeed?’ Meroni couldn’t hide the rueful smirk that played across his face. No wonder they had spared him.
‘Indeed … I would never have believed that a member of my family would betray me and infiltrate an organised crime group so successfully in Bari, that my supply of cheap labour would almost dry up overnight? Yes, it was my business that was ruined by your undercover work. But I blame the Albanian traffickers, not you. You were only doing your job. It was nothing personal. The Englishman is correct. People come here for a new tomorrow. They want a new world. But they are already ghosts. Do you believe in ghosts, Mr. Meroni?’ Carmino gestured towards the screen.
The fact he appeared to have understood everything the Englishman had said became a secondary thought. 
Meroni stared. The screen showed a hysterical woman. Crying and pleading for her life. Initially, her bloated and reddened face was unrecognisable. Terror in her wild eyes at having a gun pointed at her. Another woman held the weapon; well-groomed, wearing jeans, a T-shirt, and a casual jacket.
Meroni experienced a crushing sensation in his chest.
The desperate face belonged to Roberta Russo.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 46


12:45 Friday 27 October 2017
San Sebastian al Vesuvio, Naples
Russo’s face froze as the woman pressed the gun hard against the side of her head. Tears cascaded down her cheeks, mucus ran from her nose, and spittle foamed at the corners of her mouth.
Meroni watched and grimaced.
‘Luca, you made a very unwise choice in infiltrating the business of my Balkan partners in Bari. True, the Albanians were expendable … but I needed their raw product.’
‘Trafficking human beings is a deplorable crime.’
‘I agree.’ Carmino took a long draw on his cigarette. ‘But I am not a people trafficker. I offer hope. This is true. I offer the promise of a new world. I give these desperate people hope.’
‘You keep them in debt bondage and steal their dignity.’
Carmino held up a hand. He leant across the desk. ‘How dare you? I kept nobody in servitude until you came along and bust my business in Bari. What could I do? The workers had nowhere to live. What good is it to me if my employees are sleeping on the streets of Puglia? I had to bring them back to Naples. They wanted to escape the drudgery of low paid work and the filthy tenement blocks given to them by the Italian state after your intervention. So, they have come running back to me. I provide them with meaningful work, a home, and a new life. But I cannot give them this for free. I don’t run a charity.’ Carmino banged the desk with his fist. ‘I give them hope!’
‘Gentlemen, let us not fall out.’ The Englishman broke his silence; he crushed his cigarette in the ashtray on Carmino’s desk. ‘I appreciate there are matters over which you are not exactly going to see eye-to-eye, but we are fighting a common enemy in those who disguise themselves as refugees and form into terror cells to destroy our democratic freedoms. Signor Carmino, you have been most gracious in accommodating our wishes, and the British Intelligence Service is in your debt. The thing is, Mr. Meroni doesn’t yet see the bigger picture. Perhaps you could enlighten him further.’
Meroni did not want to listen. He had heard enough of Carmino’s lies. He wanted to reach over the desk and strangle him. Except, he felt he was on his own here. Could he trust the Englishman?
The mastiff, sensing Meroni’s anger, growled.
‘Vito!’ Carmino raised a finger, and the dog became silent. ‘Luca, you can make a wise decision. Right here, right now.’
‘Which decision would that be?’
‘This morning, you tried to rid yourself of temptation by jumping into a thorn bush. Saint Benedict would have been proud of you. A true son of Cassino – as indeed am I … Whilst I was born in Naples, my heart belongs to Ciociaria, and I will return to take my rightful place at the head of the Meroni family. Everything your mother owns also belongs to me. I want my share, and with your help I’m going to get it.’
‘What are you saying, Carmino?’
‘I would have been honoured to have you as part of my family, Luca. We share a common history. Yes, it is true, you are a police officer. A decent one, I hear. But honest and decent people are no good to me.’ Carmino gestured towards the screen. ‘Now, the one wearing the suit, she is an excellent cop. She has her faults ... But who am I to judge somebody by their choice of sexual partner? However, she is somebody who knows how to play by the rules. She is fighting the terrorists alongside this Englishman, Luca. And she knows she needs my help to do this. You need my help, too; if you are to understand everything that has gone on in Cassino since the war. Your mother has been deceiving you all these years. And your father too.’
Meroni looked at Carmino in silent bewilderment. What was the Camorra boss saying? How had his absent father, and his mother, deceived him?
‘Now, Luca. It’s decision time. Shall we kill your friend?’
Meroni’s stomach knotted, and the bile burnt at the back of his throat.
‘Or perhaps you think I should kill this one?’ With lightning speed, Carmino grabbed his quarry. He held the Berretta APX pistol to Nicoletta’s head and put an arm around her throat. The movement was quick. Deft and deadly.
The mastiff stood up and barked.
A door opened. The rat-faced male entered and grabbed the dog by his heavy chain. The mastiff barked again and snapped his immense jaws.
‘Enough, Vito!’
Upon hearing Carmino’s admonishment, the dog allowed himself to be dragged from the office.
Carmino stroked Nicoletta’s throat with the muzzle of the gun. 
Meroni felt a vice-like grip hold him back in his chair.
‘Time-out gentlemen, please …’ The Englishman squeezed Meroni’s shoulder.
‘You shut up!’ Carmino’s face turned to purple. ‘With your polite manners and big fancy words. I’m sick of listening to you and your Commander boss!’
The Englishman stepped away from Meroni. ‘Signor Carmino – remember, we have a deal …’
‘Yes, yes … I remember.’ Carmino’s free hand went to Nicoletta’s throat. ‘There, there, my dear; I won’t hurt you. You know I look after my girls. Especially my favourite ones. Haven’t I always been good to you, Nicoletta? But it is out of my hands. It is up to Mr. Meroni whether you live or die. Come on Luca – this is your big moment. You like Bible references … Last night at my club you were Daniel … Earlier today, you were Saint Benedict; a stupid, wholesome, God-fearing monk. Now, you are a wise King Solomon. So, which one are you going to save? The tomboy in Rome, or this dancing whore from Caserta? Decision time. It’s your choice.’
Nicoletta was trembling. ‘Please, Don Salvatore, you have always been kind …’
Carmino shook his head and held a finger to Nicoletta’s lips. ‘Be quiet. I told you; it’s up to him. Now, Luca, who will it be? Which of these fine ladies will you save?’
‘Why do I have to save either of them?’ Meroni’s words filled his head. He needed to stall the crime boss. But he was delaying the inevitable. There appeared no way out of this.
‘Yes, they can both die. If that is what you want?’ said Carmino. ‘Your wish is my command. One wish only. But, killing them both is no fun. I want you to make a choice, Luca. You need to feel the pain of your guilt forever. Just like the hurt my side of the family still feels over what the Meronis did to Bisnonna Franca when they banished her from her home.’
What had happened to Carmino’s great-grandmother? Something so terrible that he intended to return to Cassino and take over his mother’s bar and property interests. But this wasn’t the time to talk or consider their family’s past. He had to think fast.
Meroni sighed and opened his arms. ‘Let them both go, Carmino. Kill me.’
The Englishman clapped and walked away from the desk. ‘Bravo, Mr. Meroni. Nobody could have done it any better.’
‘You shut the fuck up!’ Carmino’s wild eyes went from the Englishman to Meroni. ‘Luca, please choose. It’s simple. You took something from me. Something extremely useful and valuable … my workers. Your family has taken away my birthright. So, in return, I intend to take things back from you. Your mother’s businesses and either the girl who you rely on for your undercover work, or a whore you made a promise to in Caserta. A false promise I think – you don’t really care about this putana. Unlike Daniel, you are not blameless …’
Nicoletta tried to struggle free. Carmino held the gun firmly against her right cheek. Her eyes pleaded with Meroni.
‘Hurry, Luca. Dear cousin of mine … Which one will your conscience allow to die? The one, who gets her kicks from other girls; or this one, who makes her money from sitting on men’s laps and offers little extras to satisfy the needs of my business clients. She’s fantastic at her job … but nobody is expendable. Come on, Mister Meroni. Tick-tock – time is running out.’
Nicoletta lowered her head, shedding silent tears.
Silent tears …
Meroni stared up at the television screen. Russo was a blubbering wreck. Her eyes were bloodshot red, and a violent coughing fit wracked her.
Crocodile tears.
Meroni remembered experiencing the same debilitating effects at public order training as the instructors made you run through the pepper spray incapacitant. Russo was playing her part well. ‘Okay, Carmino. You win. Therefore, I will make my choice …’
‘How gracious of you, Luca. Now, don’t keep us waiting any longer. I don’t think I can stand the suspense.’
Meroni turned to the television screen. ‘I choose her.’
‘What do you mean? Does the tomboy get to live – or does she die?’
‘No, wait …’ Meroni pointed a finger towards Nicoletta.
Carmino’s grip on her throat tightened. The gun now pointed at Meroni. ‘Which one lives and who dies? Stop fucking with me, Luca, or they will both …’
The muffled gunshot caused Meroni to flinch, but his gaze did not leave Carmino’s face.
Later, in his official report, Meroni would record that it felt as if life had switched to slow-motion.
The face of the Neapolitan crime boss changed in a split second from bewildered to … deceased. 
The bullet hole showed blood red in the dead centre of his forehead, and Don Salvatore Carmino fell face down onto his desk. 
The gunman’s aim had been true.
Nicoletta scrambled around the desk and collapsed into Meroni’s arms. 
Meroni turned to the television. The screen was blank. Then it flickered back to life, with the CCTV cameras displaying multiple scenes of pandemonium: workers ducking under their benches and machines or running from the building as armed police swarmed across the factory floor. Some were standing still, frozen to the spot, with their arms raised. He could see the two Camorristi sprinting towards a far exit on the mezzanine level. Amongst  the ensuing chaos, Meroni spotted a RaiNews camera operator who was standing over the crouched figure of Teresa Conti.
The Englishman made to exit the office. ‘Good job, Mr. Meroni. Nice T-shirt …’ He nodded to Nicoletta. ‘It’s been a pleasure collaborating with you too, signorina. Enjoy the rest of the show.’

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 47


13:15 Friday 27 October 2017
San Sebastian al Vesuvio, Naples
They say the camera never lies. What Meroni had witnessed on the CCTV system was a well-executed police operation. Swift and professional. The team of armed officers moved through the factory in a controlled and calm fashion, telling the workers to stop running, ordering them to duck down behind their machines, under their desks, or workbenches. The two Camorristi had vanished from the scene, while others in Carmino’s team offered little or no resistance, laying down their weapons to order.
All except the rat-faced male. A firearms officer shot him in the left thigh as he ran down the steel staircase, brandishing his pistol at the advancing police sharpshooters. He went down in true Spaghetti Western fashion, headfirst, landing in a crumpled heap at the foot of the steps, clutching a bloodied leg, looking up into the barrel of a police rifle.
A single shot to its enormous skull had dispatched the Neapolitan Mastiff.
The Englishman had gone.
Meroni grabbed the TV remote buttons and flicked through the cameras until he found an external view which captured him, bounding down the fire escape and sprinting across the car park towards a BMW 8 series. It was an identical vehicle to the one Teresa had driven down to Sorrento. This was a meticulously planned operation. Someone should have been covering the exit. Anybody could have escaped by that route. But the Englishman wasn’t just anybody. 
Meroni was certain if he rewound further, he would have seen Paulo and Mauro escaping via the same route. He flicked back to the internal cameras and scanned the television crew in their blue ballistic vests, PRESS emblazoned on the front and back. Teresa Conti was with them, wearing a police helmet at least two sizes too big for her, microphone in hand, directing the camera operator to get the best footage.
Nicoletta stood staring at the prostrate figure of Don Salvatore Carmino. Her mouth was moving, but she didn’t speak. The only sound was her breath, being expelled in stuttering bursts. A frantic attempt to compose herself. 
Meroni caught her as she fainted and dropped to the floor.
‘Nicoletta, here – sit down.’ Meroni sat her in the chair he had vacated and grabbed a glass of water from the tray on Carmino’s desk. He held the glass to her lips, and the water dribbled down her chin. But the elixir of life worked its magic and brought her back round. 
The Cinderella girl pointed. ‘Is he dead?’
Meroni put a hand on her shoulder. ‘Yes. Either that or he’s an excellent actor.’
‘Mauro and Paulo are going to kill me!’
Meroni rewound the CCTV footage. ‘Look up there – camera number seven. See, they didn’t fire one shot in anger and disappeared through a side door. I think we can safely say that Carmino made enemies of his own people. I think Mauro and Paulo have had their heads turned.’
‘I don’t understand.’
‘I’m still trying to figure things out myself. But I think it has got something to do with a lion and a unicorn.’
Nicoletta screwed her face. ‘What? I might look like I need a hit right now, but you are on something far stronger, Meroni.’
Before he had time to consider Nicoletta having addressed him by his surname, the office door opened and two armed police in full riot gear entered the room. Meroni pushed the Glock 27 subcompact pistol, the gun the Englishman had used to eliminate Carmino, across the table and raised his hands in the air.
He screamed at the armed officers. ‘Polizia!’
Two red dots centred on his chest.
‘Polizia!’ he called again.
Nicoletta grabbed at his arm.
One of the red dots appeared in the centre of her forehead.
Meroni made to speak. The red dot travelled up to his face, and shone bright in his eyes, causing him to blink.
‘Lower your guns! He’s one of ours.’
Meroni’s chest heaved in heavy relief. He let his hands drop. 
‘And so is she …’ Gambarella walked in. He wore a ballistic vest, but no helmet, and his weapon remained clipped in its holster. ‘Well, well, what do we have here?’ The inspector lit a cigarette and pulled the abandoned Glock towards him by placing a pen in the trigger guard. He stooped and sniffed at the muzzle. ‘Good work Meroni.’
Meroni looked around the office. There were no overt CCTV cameras. The Glock lay on the desk. The weapon would now have his DNA and fingerprints all over it. The evidence would suggest an Italian undercover police officer had killed crime boss Don Salvatore Carmino during a raid on his premises.
The Englishman had been wearing black leather gloves at the time he disappeared.
But every contact leaves a trace, and Meroni suspected the bullet lodged in the engine block of his Vespa would match the one embedded in Carmino’s skull.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 48


17:00 Friday 27 October 2017
Il Monumento alla Ciociara
Gambarella gave Meroni the keys to his car and instructed him to take Nicoletta. He would see Meroni in his office on Tuesday: Take the weekend off, don’t bother coming in Monday, I’ve got a promotion interview …  This was the old Gambarella issuing orders, being decisive.
Meroni had a hundred questions buzzing around his brain. But there was one question the inspector couldn’t answer. Only his mother could tell him the truth. And he knew the answer she gave would change everything. Forever.
Meroni drove.
Nicoletta talked.
She told him she first got into drugs when she had landed a small part in a pilot for an American TV series being filmed in Caserta. They promised an audition in Hollywood. The American producers had introduced her to cocaine. The pilot flopped. Her scenes ended up on the cutting-room floor. She never heard from the Americani big-shots again. Then, she had hung around the nightclubs in Caserta. The Camorra recruited her. They gave her choice assignments, entertaining business associates at Carmino’s villa and dancing at Il Ragazzo D’Oro and other clubs he owned. Then came the drugs. They needed you hooked. The Camorra had threatened her; they had beaten and slapped her about many times. Especially when she was proving troublesome. It wouldn’t have paid to be too complicit. Erratic behaviour is a symptom of addiction.
But she had never felt scared.
Today she had experienced her only genuine moment of fear. She thought Meroni would choose Russo, and she was going to die. That pause … Carmino’s anger, already unleashed by Meroni, was broiling. Then the Englishman had killed the crime boss. Whatever the fuck the British had to do with anything wasn’t her business. They hadn’t told her everything. Just her part to play. They had saved her. Now she just needed to go home. 
Nicoletta had referred to Russo. She also had called Meroni by his surname. More questions he would put to Gambarella. He didn’t want to ask the Cinderella Girl, whoever she was. She had been through enough.
Meroni told Nicoletta his theory about the British and the Marocchinate. The symbolism of the lion and the unicorn with the bodies at the Colosseum and Piazza del Campo, and the third killing at the Cassino War Memorial. It all pointed to a British connection. But the “Moroccan Deeds” were not for the British to avenge. The Goumiers had fought alongside the Allied troops. The British were complicit, and they had tried to cover up the atrocities.
As they continued up the autostrada, Nicoletta stared out of the passenger window.
The next exit was for Cassino. ‘Where am I driving you?’
‘Castro dei Volsci.’ Nicoletta closed her eyes and fell into a deep sleep.
Meroni concentrated on the road leading to the hilltop village. The coincidence was too great. Yet another question for soon-to-be Chief Inspector Gambarella. 
For now, he would let it be.
When they arrived at Castro dei Volsci, his mind was racing. His thoughts scrambled.
Meroni climbed out of the car, slamming the door behind him.
Then the rain came, freezing, cold, and uninviting.
But Meroni ran through the torrent.
He ran past Chiesa di San Olivia, hurtled through the narrow streets, past the terraced houses, and sprinted up the spiral of stone steps that led to the monument.
He fell to his knees, staring up at Alla Mamma Ciociara.
He felt the warmth of Nicoletta’s body, her wet cheek pressed hard against his face as she held him from behind. A mirror image of grief wrought from stone. 
This was his history, his bleeding heart.
Now he understood.
They had all lied. Everyone had betrayed him.
Ignorance was the cause of all his fears.
Meroni screamed and his tears fell as fast and as furious as the cursed rain.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 49


19:00 Friday 27 October 2017
Bar Rosetta, Sant’ ELia, Cassino
Meroni pressed his forehead up against the window. This conversation would change his life. He had thought about turning round. Going back up the autostrada to Rome. Leaving all of this behind. Up to this moment, he remained oblivious to his own history. Things were different now. After all the lies, he felt compelled. He deserved the truth.
The place was empty. Despite the hour, there were no customers, not even the ever-present barflies Roberto or Amerigo. The bar was in darkness, save for the solitary light above the table his mother was sitting at.
The spotlight was on Rosetta Meroni. 
‘Tell me he’s dead?’ she said.
‘Who?’
‘That bastard, Salvatore Carmino.’ His mother rarely swore.
Meroni slid the sepia photograph of the two women in traditional Ciociaria dress across the table and sat down opposite. The one question he needed to ask. ‘Mama, what’s the story behind the picture?’
Rosetta put her hands in her lap. The photograph lay on the table between them. A link to the broken past. ‘What do you want to know, Luca?’
‘The truth. I want to know my family history. I want to know about the Marocchinate. My ancestors were victims and terrible things happened here. Everything I know about my life is a lie.’
‘Not everything is a lie. You’re being dramatic.’ She held up a hand to stay any protest. ‘But you’re right, it is time to be honest with you.’ Rosetta took her son’s hands in hers. She reached up to his face. ‘You’re soaking. Where have you been to get so wet? I thought you would have come straight home from Napoli.’
How did she know about Naples?
‘I had to take a detour. To Castro dei Volsci.’
Rosetta withdrew her hands. She tilted her head towards the photograph. ‘Do you know who these two women are?’
‘Carmino said it was my bisnonna and her sister.’
Rosetta considered the image. ‘The taller one is your great-grandmother, Bisnonna Annamaria. The other girl is her sister, my great-aunt Franca – Carmino’s bisnonna. This was taken just after the war ended; the girls had been to a festa in Castro dei Volsci. They say Franca was a wild one. Shortly after this picture was taken, a boy from Naples arrived in Cassino and found his way to the village. He was as fierce as she was wild. The villagers called them a pair of street urchins … Scugnizzi. Then, just as suddenly as he’d arrived, Franca became pregnant, and they both ran off to Naples. Never to be seen again. Oh, there were cards sent home at Christmas and Easter, the odd letter begging for money, but Franca never visited her family again. Then one day, Franca’s granddaughter, my cousin Sandra, came back with her son, this Salvatore. It took us all by surprise. She said she had come to visit my mother, your Nonna Amelia. You were young – I don’t suppose you remember? Salvatore was four years older than you. Even as a boy, he had a dark side. The devil possessed him. Do you know, just to spite you, he killed all the rabbits we used to keep in the old pigsty? And you … well, you cried and cried so much. Nonna Amelia told Sandra to take him back to Naples and never return to Cassino again.’
‘Wasn’t that a harsh thing to do after everything that had happened?’
‘The boy was evil; he killed a dozen rabbits. His blood was bad, his heart black, and his bones rotten. Good riddance, I say.’ 
‘That’s not the whole of the story though, is it, Mama?’
Rosetta ran a finger around the jagged edges of the photograph. 
‘Talk to me about the Israeli students who visited last month. Tell me about the Marocchinate.’
Rosetta looked her son in the eye. ‘You think you know about the “Moroccan Deeds”? You’ve been to Castro dei Volsci and gazed at a pathetic monument the authorities erected to salve their conscience … No, that’s harsh. It is good that people understand what happened. But you’ve watched a brief clip of a Sophia Loren film on my laptop, and you think you understand about the Marocchinate? You, know nothing, Luca!’
The extent of her anger surprised him. ‘Everybody round here knows except me. I’d never heard of the atrocities until the taxi driver alluded to them when he dropped me off two days ago; Roberto clammed up when I questioned him about the students. I know you deliberately left the film paused at the scene where Sophia Loren calls out her daughter’s name after they have raped her. She was called “Rosetta”. You wanted me to watch the clip. Two Women aka La Ciociara. It was a clue. Were you trying to warn me, Mama?’
‘If you really want to know the truth of it all, you’ll need to talk to your father.’
‘A man I haven’t seen in twelve years? What could he possibly tell me? Mama, please … I’ve learnt a lot about myself these past couple of days. I realise how arrogant and stupid I’ve been. How ignorant I am about my family. I could have been a better son, a better person, a better police officer, even … I need to learn all about the “Moroccan Deeds” and my connection if I’m to move forward in my life.’
Rosetta reached over the table, took Meroni’s hands again and held them up to her lips. ‘It is not for me to say. You will need to ask your father.’ 
‘Am I to presume he is in Italy?’
Rosetta slowly nodded. ‘Maybe … He will come to you in his own time. Luca, you mustn’t be so hard on yourself. You were a perfect little boy. So beautiful. You deserved better than this. I still see the stares and hear the whispers I used to get after you were born … The people around here thought you were a throwback to the Marocchinate. Yes, Luca. And that is why I let you go to Rome. Football was to be your ticket out of this hell. This place is not for you.’
‘I’m far from perfect, Mama.’
‘You are too humble. Who else would have chased the Camorra all the way from Rome back to Carmino’s lair?’
‘They wanted me to follow them. I was the pawn in a wicked game. Carmino could have easily had me killed at any stage.’
‘But he couldn’t kill you. Yes, you hurt him when you compromised his business in Bari. But he wanted to come here and claim what he thought was his birthright. You were family. His perverse moral code meant he could not kill you. I suspect his Nonna Assunta had something to do with that. Now she is dead. Carmino saw an opportunity; he wanted to see you suffer – but he needed you alive if he was going to challenge me …’
And with that, Meroni realised he knew nothing about his mother. ‘What do you know about Bari, Mama? It was a secret operation.’
‘I hear things.’ She waved away the question. ‘You damaged his status forever with that business. The invincible Don Salvatore Carmino was a wounded animal. And his men, including those two who took you away from here, scented blood and were about to desert him. He was a dead man walking. They were just waiting their moment to step into the void. So, no more talk of you being a better person – a better son. You are perfect. To me at least. Just visit a little more often. After what you’ve just done, I don’t think anybody will stare at us or talk about dark deeds ever again. Besides, I could do with some help around here. Although, I’ve got someone new starting tomorrow. If only for a short while until she goes back to Rome.’
Meroni peered into the dark. 
A familiar face.
Daniella Bianca placed a hand on Rosetta’s shoulder. ‘Ciao, Meroni. Are you okay? My, God. You look like you’ve just seen a ghost.’

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 50


14:00 Tuesday 31 October 2017
Giardino di Sant’ Andrea al' Quirinale
They walked from the Questura to the Giardino, where the exotic plants appeared to laugh in the face of autumn. Gambarella was in fine humour, chain-smoking as he talked. They stood looking up at the Carabinieri nella Tempesta, a monument erected to celebrate the bicentenary of the founding of the Carabinieri Corps.
‘All of them?’ asked Meroni.
‘Yes, Bianca. And Sala – the one from Siena … and Nicoletta, too. All undercover Carabinieri.’
Meroni rubbed his cropped head. He had visited the barber as soon as he got back. It was an attempt to feel human again. ‘God, what a total arsehole they must have thought I was. A complete jumped-up prick.’
‘Don’t flatter yourself. They’ve met much worse.’
‘And Russo? Don’t tell me Russo too.’
Gambarella blew smoke over his shoulder.
‘Now, I feel totally violated,’ said Meroni.
‘Russo is an undercover police officer, and computer nerd, employed by the Polizia di Stato in Turin. She’s one of ours. It was her first assignment with the Carabinieri Special Group Operations team.’
‘She had me over good, Gamba. What was all that crap about the computer programme being psychometrically linked to my logic and reasoning?’
Gambarella exhaled and waved his cigarette. ‘Now, that bit was true – apparently. Something they’re trialling. But then I’m not good with computers. Russo really is a tech genius. The problem was, despite her own sexual orientation, you wooed her with your model looks and charisma.’ Gambarella swatted at the air. ‘She became devoted to you. At one point, Sala had to copy and remove the programme from Russo’s computer, to stop her from messing things up, and compromising the operation. But she had a back-up on a laptop hidden in your kitchen.’
‘Really?’
‘You didn’t know about the laptop? Perhaps I gave you too much credit, but then you had revealed to her you were a cop the first time you met – some undercover officer you were! Anyway, they tasked Russo with feeding you snippets of information to keep you engaged. It started before the Bari operation. Once you were hooked in, they handed you over to Bianca, and then Nicoletta.’
Operazione Uncino. It was an aptly named operation. They had all deceived him.
Hook, line, and sinker.
‘I could have been killed in Bari.’
Gambarella lit another cigarette. He was back to his usual brand; the Camels had gone. ‘That was a terrible business. The Albanians let you off the hook there.’
‘Was that supposed to be a joke?’
Gambarella shrugged.
‘The Camorra could have killed me in Cassino, or taken me straight to Carmino, then.’
‘Carmino had to keep his side of the bargain if he were to get you. He promised that no harm would come to you. Whilst they didn’t think Carmino would go back on his word, there was the risk that others in his organisation might. They wouldn’t have had Carmino’s fucked up sense of family loyalty. That is why the two “Alfa” heavies were compromised by the British. No, Carmino needed you to get to your mother. He wanted to take over her … business.’
Meroni couldn’t believe how blind he had been. He had not known his mother had such an influence in Cassino. She was more than a bar and property owner. Roberto and Amerigo were more than barflies. They were her bodyguards. ‘I should have known better when Bianca turned up. All that rubbish about her taking annual leave and following me to prove herself as a detective. The car crash had me fooled. I felt guilty for the way I treated her. Fuck, you should have seen my face when I saw her at my mother’s bar.’ 
‘Now she’s back from the dead. She can reinvent herself. They tell me she is a good undercover officer.’
‘I didn’t get Nicoletta, though. The best of the lot. I really thought she was a Camorra whore.’
Gambarella winced. ‘You saved her just in time, Luca. If the British had held back any longer, she might have been in big trouble. The drugs were getting to her. A beautiful girl. Too clever to be a cop.’
Nicoletta. Meroni had known that face. Too clever to be a cop. The photo Gambarella kept on his desk. How many times had he seen that picture? Her hair was longer now, darker, and wilder to fit the part she was playing. A doctor, that’s what Gambarella had wanted his daughter to be. Instead, she had joined the police and become an undercover officer with the Carabinieri, tackling serious crime. That was why Gamba’s wife hated him. Not only had her husband given up his own life to crime-fighting, but he also failed to persuade “Nicoletta” to pursue an alternative career. It explained a lot. No wonder Gamba was so keen for him to return. He needed the prodigal son to make up for the lost daughter. 
Meroni lit a Camel cigarette from the packet he had seized from Carmino’s desk. He took the hint. Gambarella had gone quiet. End of topic. ‘Tell me about the British Secret Intelligence Service – MI6. What was in this for them?’
‘The trouble with the British is they have an inflated sense of their own self-importance. They’ve been meddling in people’s affairs and fucking things up all over the world for centuries. They always get their arses kicked. But, by the way they retell their history, you’d never know. Palestine, India, Pakistan, Arabia, Ireland, they’ve always left on bad terms; once upon a time, even the dumb mother-fucking Americans booted them out. But they are tenacious. They never give up. The Empire lives on, in their minds at least. This War on Terror …’ Gambarella sucked on his cigarette and coughed over his shoulder. ‘Where was I? Oh yes, the British. They usually work diligently behind the scenes, and nobody would ever know they had been there. Except, on this occasion. We wouldn’t let them act on Italian soil with impunity. We let them have their Holy Trinity of killings in Italy, in exchange for their help in getting to Carmino, and told them to do the rest of their dirty work elsewhere.’
Meroni stared into the distance. He knew what was coming.
‘You were right, Meroni. Seven is God’s number. They killed four others. One in the cloisters of Barcelona Cathedral; another in the square outside Saint George’s Basilica in Victoria, Gozo; the third in a church in Al-Khader in Palestine … and the last – the seventh victim – in the crypt of the Church of Saint George in Lod, Israel. The British Intelligence Service has a genuine sense of theatre, and they kept the murder scenes away from England. They have a Saint George’s Chapel at Windsor Castle, a fitting place you would think. But they would never mess in their own green and pleasant garden.’
‘I take it they dressed all the victims in peasant clothes and gave them passenger records for Antonio Pacitto, born in Cassino?’
‘Correct. I have no idea what the clothing and transit records was all about. It’s possible they were trying to lay the blame on the Americans, or the New York Mafia. Deflection? Fuck knows what they were playing at there, an over-elaboration when you consider they took or left all the bodies in places linked to Saint George.’
‘The patron saint of England.’
‘Of Malta and Gozo, of Barcelona, and many more places. A true knight of the Crusades.’
‘That is one powerful message.’
‘All played out on the Dark Web. There is nothing of any significance in any of the mainstream news channels or on social media.’
‘The lion and unicorn slaying the fundamentalist dragons.’
‘Dieu et Mon Droit – God and My Right.’ Gambarella took a prolonged drag of his cigarette. ‘How are you feeling?’
How did he feel? Used. Worthless. He could go on.
Gambarella, as if able to read his thoughts said, ‘Take some more time off. I’ve still got a spare desk for you at the Questura. Your cover is well and truly blown now. And I’ll make another appointment with the psychologist – you’ll like her, she’s just your type.’
Meroni smiled at that. ‘You knew.’
‘What?’
‘That the more you pushed me to come back, the more likely it was I would run away to Cassino and go chasing after Carmino. You played me all the way.’
Gambarella raised his arms. A gesture of innocence. The old bastard still had it. He was everything Meroni aspired to be. Everything Meroni would become if he could get his shit back together. A decent, diligent, hard-working police officer. Ruthless but fair. Working on the frontline. No drifting in the shadows.
‘The bomb at Saint Peter’s Square, the week before the body was found at the Colosseum?’ asked Meroni.
‘An elaborate hoax. The British, again … they even scripted my interview with Teresa Conti – right down to the last syllable. It had to look like a genuine bomb threat. In case the news outlets found out about the killings. It would be a justification.’
‘But what about the Biglietto Per L’Inferno? All that “Ticket to Hell” hippy folk shit? Whose idea was that?’
Gambarella tossed his cigarette. ‘Nothing to do with me. That was Russo.’ He tapped at his watch. ‘You have an important meeting to attend.’
Meroni’s face was a picture of confusion.
‘You know what curiosity did to the cat, Meroni? I think you may be about to find the answers you have been searching for; you may not like what you hear but it will slay a dragon, or two …’ Gambarella walked off, singing. 
A baritone version of La Donna è Mobile.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 51


14:30 Tuesday 31 October 2017
La Gatta Curiosa, Rome
A group of English football supporters emerged from the bar. Meroni had forgotten about tonight’s game. He had a ticket. He was supposed to go with Russo. No doubt she would have had a decent bet on the outcome. He wondered where she was now. Turin most likely. Her part in the operation was done.
Meroni went to walk in. He found his path blocked by a man wearing a short-sleeved Liverpool football shirt, his muscular arms covered in tattoos celebrating the exploits of “The Reds”.
‘A Penny Lane for your thoughts, Mr. Meroni.’ 
The Englishman had dropped the posh accent. What came out of his mouth was pure Fab Four – the Liverpudlian drawl of a John, Paul, George, or Ringo. 
The Englishman winked, slammed a battered copy of La Gazzetta dello Sport against Meroni’s chest, and walked off with the Liverpool tifosi. 
The group raised their arms to the azure sky and burst into vibrant song.
Walk on. Walk on. With hope in your heart …
Meroni entered the bar. Maria was listening to a Black man at the far table, enthralled by the soulful rendition of the Rodgers and Hammerstein song You’ll Never Walk Alone, the anthem of the Liverpool football team. A perfect counterpoint to the boisterous chant of the supporters who were now heading towards the Trevi Fountain.
Maria placed a coffee cup on the table. 
The man smiled. 
His manner was jovial.
Just like on the train.
He looked different to how Meroni remembered him. Strange, considering that it had been less than a week since he’d seen him checking tickets on the Trenitalia service to Cassino.
The likeness was uncanny.
A mirrored reflection.
Meroni sat down at the table.
‘Hello, Luca.’
Meroni hadn’t seen this man since he was eighteen years old.
Gordon Marshall grinned.
‘Thanks for dropping by. It’s so good to see you. I appreciate it wasn’t by invitation, and this might come as a shock … after all these years. I know, we haven’t spoken since your football academy days. That injury you suffered was tragic; it reminded me of how my boxing career ended. It was too much, seeing your dream taken away like that … I thought you may have needed the space to reset, get it out of your system – stupid phrase, how can you ever get over something like that? I know when it happened to me it’s what I wanted – space. I joined the Navy after my accident …’ he raised a hand to fend off questions. ‘I was a decent fighter. Professional for a brief time until I suffered a detached retina.’ Gordon Marshall swatted the memory away. ‘I know, it’s been over twelve years. That is a lot of space. If you don’t mind, I would like to talk. But I would completely understand if you got up and walked out of that door right now.’
Meroni’s father spoke in Italian but couldn’t hide his London accent. 
Maria had brought another cappuccino over.
Meroni pointed to his watch.
She shrugged her shoulders. ‘Blame him …’
Gordon laughed. ‘My bad. I’m quite the maverick. I don’t buy all that “no cappuccino after eleven o’clock” business. I hear you don’t either. What time was it you got to Cassino and your mother fixed you the double-espresso-cappuccino? Do you mind if we speak in English, Luca? My Italian is a little rusty.’ The voice was rich. A charming voice, skilled in using the right words in any situation. A voice of conviction.
The story told by Gordon Marshall was a history lesson. A monologue reaching back to the dark days of World War Two. The Meroni family had always lived in their small village near the town of Cassino, in the heart of the Ciociaria region. Giuseppe Meroni was a communist who had fought in the Spanish Civil War. He had been fortunate enough to escape from the city of Barcelona just before Mussolini and General Franco’s other supporters from Nazi Germany bombed it. He arrived back in Italy and joined the underground anti-fascists. When Mussolini fell and the Nazis occupied the Italian peninsula in 1943, he joined the partisans in the hills, leaving his wife, Amelia, to raise their three children: Annamaria, Franca, and Federico.
When the German soldiers came to the village, Amelia would hide the children in the wine barrels that were kept in the old pigsty. She had heard so many stories of how the Nazis had mistreated Indigenous peoples in their quest to conquer Europe as the master race. She had vowed to her husband to do whatever was needed to protect her family.
On 18 May 1944, a Polish Cavalry regiment raised their flag atop the ruins of Saint Benedict’s ancient hilltop abbey. The Battle for Monte Cassino was over. The men came down from the mountains; the villagers rejoiced.
However, on that first night of freedom, Annamaria and her siblings had cause to seek shelter in the pigsty once more. What they had suffered under the Nazis was nothing compared to the hell they were about to endure.
The French Expeditionary Corps included Moroccan Goumiers. General Alfonse Juin assigned the job of clearing the way for the final Allied attack on Rome to the Moroccans. The adept and agile Goumiers, experts in mountain combat, were to clear the hills of any Nazis who might launch counterattacks. The fearless, knife-wielding warriors helped secure the Allied victory in Italy. Then stories appeared of Italian civilians, men, and women, being raped, and killed. The Goumiers faced accusations of war crimes.
‘What happened to bisnonna?’ Meroni could not hide the anger in his voice. The monument at Castro dei Volsci depicting a woman desperate to protect her child had opened a gnawing wound in his heart. Something hidden but pervasive.
‘Your great-grandmother and her sister were not yet teenagers. The Goumiers raped them. Their younger brother, Federico, was brutalised and killed in front of his parents. Then they executed Giuseppe Meroni in the courtyard outside the house. Amelia was left to raise the two girls alone.’
Meroni’s wrath overwhelmed him. This was his history. People he had never met, and a story of which he was totally ignorant, had ignited a fury he was struggling to control. Una strana sensazione. A strange feeling. Revenge consumed his being. His emotions had never felt so raw.
‘Maybe now you understand why your mother has kept it all from you.’
Gordon held up two fingers to Maria. More coffee. He needed to buy time for Meroni to process the information. He sat back and waited for her to bring the coffee over before continuing his story.
‘Annamaria and Franca became pregnant. Annamaria suffered an early miscarriage; Franca wasn’t so lucky. Her body swelled. After a young man from Naples passed through the village, they decided she should go with him. This young man claimed to have been part of the resistance movement, and said he’d fought with Giuseppe up in the mountains. Nobody believed him. He was a scugnizzo, but Amelia didn’t care, she just wanted Franca away from the village. She had suffered enough. She didn’t need the shame that would follow the family when the baby was born.’
‘If they were that concerned, they could have got rid of it or given the child away,’ said Meroni.
‘You forget, Luca. This was 1944, these were deeply religious people. Simple, superstitious people, who had been hardened and made desperate by war. When the boy came along, it was the best thing that could have happened. Little did they know that the fighting blood of the Goumiers would be passed down the generations. Over the years, the Neapolitan bloodline fused with the North African into something deadly.’
‘Don Salvatore Carmino.’
Gordon raised a finger in acknowledgement. ‘When I arrived in Cassino just over thirty years ago, it caused much gossip. The locals had always been wary of strangers, especially dark strangers. I hadn’t heard about the Marocchinate. Like you, I was ignorant of these war crimes perpetrated by the Allies. I was a young officer in the Royal Navy. They stationed me at Naples. One day, they packed me and my fellow officers onto a coach and drove us to Cassino for an educational visit to the abbey and the war graves. Afterwards, we made a stop at a bar in the nearby town of Sant’Elia Fiumerapido and that’s when the thunderbolt hit me. The moment I set eyes on your mother … it was love at first sight.’
‘Any more clichés you would like to throw in?’
‘Seriously, she was the most beautiful girl that I had ever seen. I admit, I am talking in clichés, but it’s true. Cupid’s arrow and all that.’ Gordon traced a line in the air which fell to the table. He mimed an explosion with his hands and laughed.
That smile. Infectious. Meroni felt himself being won over by this charming, self–effacing man. However, he couldn’t forget that the father he had not seen in twelve years had used him in a quid pro quo agreement with the Italian authorities to hunt their terror cell in Italy.
‘Honestly, I had experienced nothing like it. Before or since. The rest is history. And here we are.’ Gordon settled back and drank his coffee.
‘Where have you been all these years?’
‘Otherwise engaged.’
‘So busy you couldn’t visit?’ said Meroni.
Gordon drew a finger around the rim of his cup. He offered no response.
‘It doesn’t bother me. I’m not sentimental. But you ceased to exist in my life. As far as I was concerned, I had no father.’
‘I’ve watched your police career, Luca. I know everything about you. Rosetta and I have always stayed connected. We see each other at least two or three times a year. We still love each other.’
Meroni gave a slow handclap. ‘Congratulations to the happy couple.’
‘I can see you’re angry, but now is the time for us to reconnect, Luca. That breadcrumb trail you followed to Carmino has led to this moment.’ He tapped the table with his forefinger. ‘Right here, right now. So, we can argue about the past, or we can look to the future. Build a new relationship. It’s your choice.’
‘There seems to have been many arguments about the past. We have seven dead bodies because of the past.’ 
Gordon took his time to respond. ‘They were from the dark past. Now, they are the ghosts of tomorrow. The moment that three of them turned up at Cassino they were playing a deadly game. Your mother knew straight away who they were. Sure, they held Israeli passports and wore skullcaps …’ his voice tailed off. ‘But they were on a murder spree. Rosetta found bomb making equipment; in the pigsty – inside those old wine barrels. The place her family were forced to hide in during the war … Then she contacted me.’
‘Why not the Carabinieri or the Polizia di Stato? Why you?’
‘Because it’s what I do. I know Gambarella will have given you the speech about how the British always end up having to clear up the mess they have created all over the world. He gave me the same talk when I went to him to gain support for the operation. There is some truth in what he says. But I don’t care about the sins of my…’
Meroni noted the pause. ‘Fathers?’
Gordon offered a wry smile and a shake of his head. ‘I’m interested in the here and now. Those men were terrorists. All seven of them. They needed to be eliminated … Okay, here’s a lesson in my history. My father worked for the British High Commission in the Caribbean. I was born in Antigua. When I was five years old, we moved to Barbados. I grew up near the Garrison Savannah racetrack. I wanted to be a jockey. I would spend all my spare time with the horses watching them train: galloping on the dirt, walking around the grass track, swimming in the sea at Pebbles Beach. I loved them. I was captivated. And I would go to the race meetings put on by the Barbados Turf Club. I studied the form. I got to know when the horses wanted to race, and when they didn’t. I became an expert. By the time I was a teenager, I was desperate to ride. But there aren’t too many one hundred and eighty-eight centimetre tall jockeys. It was a short-lived dream. Anyway, my parents enrolled me into a boys’ school in Bridgetown. I used to walk past Nelson every day. I loved that statue at the top of Broad Street. At school and in the local library, I would read every book about Lord Admiral Horatio Nelson. It was my intention to learn everything about him and understand how this man, who had died over two hundred years ago, could have been so great an admiral that he was still revered throughout the world. I appreciate that in these enlightened times I should take the knee, celebrate the fact they have taken his statue down, rail against his perceived involvement in the slave trade. I suppose I should celebrate Barbados becoming a republic. But I can’t help it. I’m a British patriot.’
Meroni looked down at his untouched cappuccino. He wasn’t in the mood for a lecture. He didn’t want to argue with a long-lost parent over the Black Lives Matter movement, and the wrongs of British colonial history. Especially when he had only just discovered his own sense of being.
Gordon continued. ‘When my father moved the family from Bridgetown to London, I didn’t settle. I missed Garrison Savannah and the horses. To counter my homesickness, I remember he would take me to Trafalgar Square and point right up to the top of the column. Look up there. I brought Nelson with us; and I put him right up in the sky so nobody can take him away, and you can see him whenever you come to Central London. And I bought that story. I wanted to believe it. But one day I realised the Trafalgar Square Nelson was wearing a hat. In Barbados, Nelson didn’t have his hat on. So, I confronted my father. That’s not my statue. Nelson has got a hat. And do you know what he said? It was too hot in Barbados for a hat. It’s the same man. Go up and look him in his good eye and see for yourself. That’s a true story.’
‘Is that why you joined the British Navy?’
‘All because of Admiral Lord Nelson. But see how history connects things? Nelson, Antigua, Barbados, the British, London, my family, the Royal Navy, Italy, Rosetta, and you, Luca … No one can define these things. Everything is connected. You cannot rewrite your history. Most people look for the wrong answers in the past. Life cannot be figured out in one hundred and forty characters.’
‘That sounds like a well-rehearsed line.’
Gordon raised his hands. ‘Guilty. A philosopher I am not. But why try to erase history? The past is who we are, where we are from, and it determines where we are going. If it weren’t for all the nasty shit that happens before, how would people move forward and achieve so much good in this world? Some people don’t learn from their past. Like those boys from Morocco who showed up at Cassino. They come from people who have spent centuries trying to ram their misguided, distorted beliefs down everybody’s throat.’
A clenched fist. The first sign of any genuine emotion Gordon Marshall had shown. A betrayal of his true self. The real man behind a mask of cold indifference. 
‘Is that why you chose the secret service?’
Gordon looked over Meroni’s shoulder and leaned into the table. ‘The same reason you became a police officer. I don’t like bad guys. But this is much more than that. When your mother secured the DNA from those students, it showed their true origins were from the Rif Mountains, the same region of Morocco as the Goumiers. Can you imagine that? Seven young men return to the scene of a long-denied Allied war crime to pay homage to their ancestors and celebrate their bloody past. They were from Tetouan, an area riddled with extremists and the origin of many recent terrorist incidents in Europe.’
‘I thought only three students turned up at Cassino. Seven people are dead because of you …’
‘The others headed off to other parts of Italy. But the moment your mother discovered their stuff – she knew. She knew in her blood. They were dead men the moment she looked in the wine barrel and saw the bomb making equipment. And then we had the suspicious package at Saint Peter’s. We’d been watching the group for some time, but after Rome we had to move fast. Yes, we orchestrated all of it.’ Gordon leaned back, folded his arms.
‘I know the truth about the bomb at the Vatican,’ said Meroni.
Gordon shrugged.
‘But why the elaboration? Why the peasant clothing, the Ellis Island passenger records? Was that to implicate the Americans? And the whole lion and the unicorn thing, Saint George slaying the dragon?’ 
‘We needed to send a simple and coherent message. We will find you. Imagine taking any of this to court? Evidence means nothing – justice is everything. You know that. If it got out, then the Americans might get the blame – yes, that was part of the thinking. More important was the signature. Our enemies need to know our response to terrorism will be calculated. My job is to seek and destroy them.’ The transformation was unnerving. The warm, smiling face replaced by a deadly countenance. 
Meroni shifted in his seat. ‘You’re saying these men were direct descendants of the Goumiers?’
‘They all had the same familial DNA. And so too, did Carmino. That was his true birthright. He was born of the Marocchinate. It infected his being. He was complicit.’
Meroni knew the duplicitous nature of police work. In working for the common good, he had seen it up close many times. But this level of deceit surpassed anything he had ever experienced. ‘But wasn’t his bisnonna a victim of …’
‘The liberal elite continue to apologise for our forebears,’ interrupted Gordon, ‘and people take advantage of this handwringing. People whose ideology is so twisted they can never lose the argument. It would be easy for me to say: I am a descendant of a slave. The British betrayed me. Pull down the colonialist statues in Barbados and everywhere else in the West Indies … rename Barbados, Ichirouganaim – as our Carib ancestors properly called it. The red land with white teeth … I would always win my argument. It’s too easy to say the past is all wrong – smash it all up. Accepting who you are and where we’ve been is challenging. Learning from the past and moving forward together is hard. History can be difficult to accept. Nowadays, nobody wants to take the time to understand. Everybody wants their five minutes of fame, their viral moment. My team has saved our European homes from further tragedy. Nobody knows anything about it. Except for the SIS, the warlords in the Rif Mountains, and the Italians. All those on the reception list got the message. That’s what I do, son. England expects and all that.’
Meroni didn’t buy one word of it. It had been a well-orchestrated plot. They had achieved their goal. But the damage was done. Meroni didn’t care to consider the consequences. He had played an unwitting part. ‘Biglietto Per L’Inferno. Whose idea was that?’
‘Oh, not guilty. Blame your friend Russo for that one. “Ticket to Hell” – I bought a first-class ticket to that place a long time ago.’
Meroni sang.
Una strana sensazione …
‘Okay, enough of that. I still can’t get that song out of my head.’ Gordon looked past Meroni and got up.
That smile, again. ‘Look, I’ve got to go – hug it up, son.’
Meroni stood. 
The two men embraced.
‘Don’t be a stranger, Papa.’
Gordon pulled back and looked his son in the eye. ‘I’ll try not to be.’
Meroni called after the retreating figure. ‘How can I get hold of you?’ 
‘If you need me. Your mother should know. Now, stay safe.’ 
The beguiling smile again.
And then he was gone.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 52


15:00 Tuesday 31 October
La Gatta Curiosa, Rome
Meroni settled himself in the chair his father had vacated. It gave him a full view of the bar and the entrance door. Old, learned habits. He had just sat down when Teresa Conti walked in.
It was the briefest of eye contact; a fleeting look that passed between them as their paths crossed over the threshold. It said everything about her. She would do anything for a story. Somewhere along the way, she had done a deal with his father. 
She smiled at Meroni as she walked over. She asked Maria to get her a bottle of sparkling water.
He stood up.
They kissed cheeks.
‘I owe you an apology for running off like that in Sorrento.’
Teresa waved a hand. ‘Oh, that? It’s okay, I’m used to being left alone in a strange bedroom, half-naked, with a Camorrista pointing a gun at me.’
‘You knew he wouldn’t shoot.’
‘How could you be so sure?’
Meroni smiled. ‘It’s quite a story. All this. Who approached you?’
Teresa composed herself. ‘I never reveal my sources. Besides, you can watch the extended RaiNews Investigazione Speciale later this evening.’
Meroni realised he had never once been to Teresa’s apartment in Via Margutta.
‘I could come to your place. We can watch it there.’
‘Best if I come to you. Unless you can persuade my husband to go out for the evening.’
Meroni was dumbstruck.
‘What? You must know I have a husband. Come on, it’s not a secret, Luca.’
Meroni was still processing lots of things. Recent events made him realise he needed to abandon his role as a maverick undercover investigator and go back to being an ordinary detective at the Questura. The dream of football stardom had ended long ago. Time to bury it. His total ignorance about his own family and Ciociaria, now … this bombshell. He hadn’t suspected Teresa to be a married woman. Truth be told, he’d had no reason to ask her; and he was not one for reading the gossip columns.
Teresa cocked her head. ‘You really didn’t know? What do you do with yourself when you are not playing at being a detective?’
For one, he spent far too much time sleeping with older women he didn’t altogether care about. He enjoyed the freedom. The unconditional attachments that promised so much. But he realised the relationships were his way of running from the past, trying to escape the truth of what happened on the training field at AS Roma Primavera. He needed more time to think. He had to get back to Cassino. Take some time to reacquaint himself with his mother, learn more about his family, his father, and come to terms with his history in the real world. The world outside of covert policing.
‘Luca! I’m joking. How could I still be married to somebody when I spend all my spare time in your bed?’
‘Tell me about your husband, Teresa.’
‘My second husband left me two years ago. He was a lawyer, working for the government. He left me for a young American student who lived in Trastevere.’ Teresa pulled a face and held her hands to her chest. ‘Huge breasts. Little brain. Quite the opposite of me.’ She waited for a compliment. It never came. ‘The Americana grew bored and ran off with a Balkan drug lord – another story I will bring to the attention of the Italian public. Now, about my special investigation, I appreciate you’re a non-believer … a sceptic. But the title makes the right connection, at least I think so. My documentary is called “The Ghosts of Tomorrow”.’
Meroni held his hand to Teresa’s lips. He had to stop the noise. A thousand thoughts came into his head. The coffee had wired his brain to rewind. That glance between them when Teresa walked in. Hadn’t his father also described the dead Moroccans as the ghosts of tomorrow?
Meroni was opening Pandora’s Box.
‘Tell me about Gordon Marshall?’
Teresa put her fingers to her throat.
Maria came over with the sparkling water.
Teresa thanked her with a tight-lipped smile.
‘When did you first meet him?’ Meroni tried to catch her eye.
Teresa ran a hand through her hair. She had lost all her usual composure. ‘I first met your father about twenty-five years ago … I was a junior reporter in London. He was charming. Wickedly funny and very handsome. I was smitten. Love at first sight.’
First his father, now it was Teresa talking in Cupid’s clichés. 
‘You had a relationship with Gordon Marshall?’
‘I was young. Impressionable. We got married …’
A bottle smashed behind the bar. 
‘Sorry …’ Maria hurriedly cleared up the mess and disappeared into the kitchen.
Meroni bent low over the table. ‘When did you get divorced?’
‘We never did, officially…’
Despite the need to scream, Meroni looked around the bar, took a deep breath, and lowered his voice. ‘What the fuck, Teresa? If you’re married to my father, then you are my stepmother. There are laws covering incest. What the hell were you playing at when we got together?’
‘We are not in England, Luca. In Italy, our relationship would only be deemed illegal if it provoked a public scandal. When we first met, I did not know you were Gordon’s son.’
Meroni fell silent. If the media knew that Rome’s most celebrated correspondent was in a sexual relationship with her stepson, there would be the biggest public scandal in decades.
Teresa broke the silence. ‘The night we first met … in that bar in Trastevere, you said you were meeting somebody. You were going to watch the football together.’
‘I was supposed to be meeting my father. I got an unexpected message; he said he wanted to meet up with me …’
‘Guess who I was supposed to have met that evening? That’s right, Gordon Marshall – my estranged husband. Your father. We hadn’t seen each other in years. He told me to meet him at that same bar. He didn’t show.’
‘But we both did.’
‘And he calculated there would be an attraction, Luca. He’d done his homework. I swear I only found out you were his son the other night at the opera.’
‘But you came to mine afterwards, and we had sex. You knew then, and yet …’
‘There was this Englishman. He threatened to release images if I didn’t do what they wanted, and to go to my boss. He said my relationship with you would cause a public scandal when the newspapers got hold of the story. And it would end up in the courts.’
‘He was right about the public scandal. Wait … tell me more about this Englishman.’
‘He confronted me in the box. I remembered him. When I heard him … it was a voice from my past. When I was in London, he was always on the phone to your father. A regular sidekick. I only met him once or twice. But that voice. It haunts me. Your father is a ruthless man, Luca. Since I returned to Italy, I’ve only seen him a handful of times. It’s always his call. The last time I saw him must have been over a decade ago. It never seemed worth us getting a divorce. We registered the marriage in England. Not in Italy. My second husband never found out about it.’
‘Bigamy and incest. You certainly live life to the full.’
The slap was hard. Meroni’s head snapped back. 
Teresa held up her hands. ‘I’m sorry. But you know nothing about the truth. Your father has just given you the official version of events. A bullshit history that his beloved British government wants you to believe.’
‘So, what is the unofficial version, Teresa? Come on, seeing as you know so much about everything. What is the truth?’
When Teresa spoke, she didn’t hide the contempt in her voice. ‘Moroccan Goumiers did not rape those girls in the story Gordon Marshall told you. A shell-shocked British soldier molested them and killed their father and younger brother.’
How did Teresa know his father had spoken to him about the Marocchinate? Meroni’s heart turned to lead.
‘That British Commonwealth soldier was Gordon Marshall’s grandfather. After what happened, he was court-martialled and shot as a traitor in the courtyard outside your family house. The British Army covered the whole thing up. They gave your great-grandmother a vast sum of money. Small compensation for the atrocities she had endured. But they had bought her silence. To this day your mother, Rosetta, believes her family were victims of the “Moroccan Deeds”.’
Meroni got up to walk away.
Teresa grabbed his hand. ‘Luca. Please, you deserved to know the truth. Gordon Marshall is an uncompromising liar. Please, come over to my place this evening. We can talk this through. We can watch my documentary together …’
Meroni was gone. 
He could hear the singing.
The sweet silver song of the lark.
He walked towards the Trevi fountain.
It was a golden sunset.
The sky swarmed with starlings.
It was a good omen.
Tomorrow was another day.
And Detective Luca Meroni didn’t believe in ghosts.

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear





















THE END

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 1


09:00 TUESDAY 17 OCTOBER 2017 - EXTERNAL. VATICAN CITY, ROME
Transcription: Sig.ra Lucrezia De Valla Polizia di Stato,  Questura di Roma


NEWSREADER: And now we go live to Vatican City and our Special Correspondent, Teresa Conti. Teresa, what is the latest update?
TERESA CONTI: Buongiorno tutti. Earlier this morning, someone discovered a suspicious package, believed to be a rucksack, near the fountain behind me. All the emergency services are here. They’ve evacuated the area around Saint Peter’s Square and bomb disposal experts have arrived at the scene.
NEWSREADER: Do we have any idea who is responsible?
TERESA CONTI: I have with me from the Polizia di Stato, Inspector Aldo Gambarella … Inspector, who planted the bomb?
GAMBARELLA: We don’t know at this stage, Teresa. A member of the public reported a suspicious package to the Polizia Locale di Roma Capitale earlier this morning, and their officers attended and declared a major incident. We have evacuated the area, and the rucksack is being examined by bomb disposal experts. We are in control. There is no need to panic. But it is better to be safe, than …
TERESA CONTI: Sorry … Yes, but tell me, inspector, was any warning given?
GAMBARELLA: No, there wasn't.
TERESA CONTI: Was a coded message sent to the police?
GAMBARELLA: None.
TERESA CONTI: This area of Rome is closed to the public. Who do you think is responsible?
GAMBARELLA: As I said, Teresa, we know nothing yet. We cannot say who is responsible until we know exactly what we are dealing with …
TERESA CONTI: It’s an atrocity, yes?
GAMBARELLA: There is no atrocity, Teresa. We have the area under control and the device under examination.
TERESA CONTI: But inspector …
GAMBARELLA: And we have taken the precaution of protecting the public and safeguarding Rome’s streets. We have closed the Basilica and Vatican Museums. Currently, we are uncertain about the situation. It’s unknown if it is a bomb.
TERESA CONTI: But is it the work of terrorists?
GAMBARELLA: It’s too early to say.
TERESA CONTI: If it isn’t a terrorist act – this bomb – then why evacuate the area and cause the public to panic?
GAMBARELLA: As I was saying …
(A loud boom echoes in the background.)
TERESA CONTI: What was that?
GAMBARELLA: A controlled explosion. I must go back to the scene.
TERESA CONTI: Thank you, inspector. There you have it. A bomb at the Vatican, and a controlled explosion. The police are keeping tight-lipped about who may be responsible. The question everybody is asking is – have terrorists struck at the heart of Rome?
NEWSREADER: Thanks, Teresa. Now, to football. Juventus go top of Serie A after beating Roma in Turin …


Transcript Ends

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear



ABOUT THE AUTHOR




Toni Viola is a crime thriller author and a proud member of The Alliance Of Independent Authors (Alli), and the Crime Writers' Association (CWA).


‘Viola’ was his Nonna’s maiden name—an homage to his Italian roots. Toni’s mother was born in a small village near Cassino, in southern Italy. The story she told of being hidden with her siblings inside wine barrels in an old pigsty during the German occupation of Italy, was the inspiration behind the original draft of The Cause Of All Fear.


Meroni - The Rome Trilogy is a character-driven crime thriller series featuring Detective Luca Meroni: a failed footballer and disgraced undercover cop. Following a botched assignment in Bari, a series of brutal investigations in the Eternal City test Meroni’s loyalty, resilience, and fractured grip on reality. A gripping series for readers who crave edgy thrillers and relish the dark pulse of international crime noir.


Website: www.toniviola.com

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear



Books in the series 


Meroni – The Rome Trilogy


Detective Luca Meroni doesn’t just chase killers – he hunts the truth in a world of lies.


From Vatican bombings and mutilated corpses to sadistic killers and cryptic messages written in blood, Meroni finds himself drawn into conspiracies that span the generations. Each fresh case reveals an additional layer of betrayal – British Intelligence, the Camorra, and even his own family, lovers, and longtime friends are part of the subterfuge.
The Cause of All Fear – Meroni uncovers a wartime secret that could destroy everything.
Nothing Can Be Loved – A killer priest stalks the daughters of Rome’s elite, and Meroni must hunt alone to avenge them.
Make Thick My Blood – Meroni faces being framed for a murderous assault and must confront the enemy within to prove his innocence.
Set amongst the dark shadows of modern-day Rome, the Meroni Trilogy is a blistering blend of noir, psychological suspense, and moral reckoning.


Because when your world is a lie, the truth is the most dangerous weapon of all.


Find out more at www.toniviola.com

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear



THE CAUSE OF ALL FEAR - Book I


A bomb at the Vatican.
A mutilated corpse at the Colosseum.
A sniper’s bullet – and that’s just the beginning.


Detective Luca Meroni is called to investigate a dead body at the Colosseum only to be thrust into a deadly game spanning generations. As Meroni investigates, he uncovers a sinister plot that entangles British Intelligence, the Italian underworld, and secrets buried since World War II. But the deeper he digs, the more dangerous the truth becomes. To survive, Meroni must navigate shifting loyalties, confront the Camorra – and reckon with betrayal at the heart of his own family. Because the people he trusted most are hiding the darkest secrets of all. From war-ravaged Italy to the back alleys of modern Rome, The Cause of All Fear is a blistering thriller of deception, revenge, and the ultimate cost of unravelling the truth.


When your world is a lie, ignorance is a curse …


Find out more at www.toniviola.com

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear



NOTHING CAN BE LOVED - Book II


Five women are dead. One killer priest is on the loose.


Detective Luca Meroni is back – haunted, hunted, and alone. 


On his first morning back at the Questura di Roma, Meroni is called to the Monti Palace Hotel. Contessa Sofia Casaldi lies dead in her bath. In her hand: a pentacle charm. Written on the mirror in blood – a cryptic message … One month earlier, the Contessa’s daughter Luisa had died in an alleyway from a morphine overdose. But she wasn’t an addict; she was a leading cancer doctor, grieving the deaths of her closest childhood friends. As the body count rises and the connections deepen, Chief Inspector Gambarella orders Meroni to shut the case down. Someone powerful is controlling the narrative – somebody who doesn’t want the truth exposed. To avenge the girls’ deaths, Meroni must break the rules – fighting against his enemies within the police, and the ghosts of his failed football career. But time is running out. And the killer is about to strike again – only this time Meroni is the intended victim …


Is this the will of God – or the work of the Devil?


Available to download via Books2Read from 23 April 2026
Find out more at www.toniviola.com

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear



MAKE THICK MY BLOOD - Book III


When there is no hiding … from the enemy within


A series of bizarre incidents at the Roman Forum shocks the city’s political elite. The police report finding the victims drugged, bloodied, and dressed in party togas. None can recall what happened, and forensics reveal no injuries – no signs of physical or sexual assault. Then a video surfaces: a grotesque orgy featuring the victims and their politician partners; and, with the Mayoral elections looming, disgraced candidates withdraw from the race, leaving Deputy Mayor Gaetana Ragallo as the sole credible contender. When police discover Teresa Conti battered and left for dead at Pompey’s Theatre, they arrest her ex-lover – Detective Luca Meroni, and Chief Inspector Gambarella takes control of the investigation. Then one of the original victims is murdered – and once again Meroni is the prime suspect. With no allies left and time running out, Meroni must navigate a twisted web of political ambition, manipulation, and personal betrayal.


To finally clear his name, Meroni will need to confront the enemy that lurks within and the ghosts that won’t stop haunting him.


COMING MAY 2026!
Find out more at www.toniviola.com







OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 2


06:30 Tuesday 24 October 2017
The Colosseum, Rome
He is a ghost. Inspector Gambarella flicked his cigarette out of the forensic tent. Meroni watched as the stub bounced and sparks flew across the ancient cobblestones.
‘A ghost? I see a dead body, Meroni. A young male, mauled to death, wearing a wool jacket, collarless shirt, and a battered bombetta, a bowler hat – he looks like something out of an Agatha Christie novel.’
‘Any identification?’
Gambarella thrust a paper evidence bag at Meroni’s chest. ‘According to this, he is Antonio Pacitto, an eighteen-year-old from Cassino, who sailed on a ship called Massilia from Naples to New York in May 1906.’
Meroni read the document through the plastic viewing strip. It was a facsimile of an old passenger record from the Ellis Island Foundation website in New York. He scrutinised the mutilated face of the victim. ‘I reckon he could be from Naples or Sicily. North Africa even?’
‘Give me a break, Meroni. I’ve got a corpse with a face that’s unrecognisable; his fingers are chewed to the bone; so, we’ve got no prints for comparison; DNA analysis will take at least twenty-four hours to come back from the lab. So, I call you here – my number one detective, and all you can tell me is he may be Neapolitan or Sicilian, or … even North African! Trust me, I don’t need any more unsolved crimes at the Questura.’
‘You’ve got the clothing. You can send that for analysis.’
‘And I don’t need lessons in forensic recovery.’
Meroni stood up and walked out into the cool air. He looked up at the vast stone edifice of the Colosseum. The largest amphitheatre in the world harboured many brutal secrets. Despite its well-documented history, it rarely gave them up. This morning, Rome’s most famous landmark remained resolutely silent. A flock of starlings flew up into the bright sky, their presence a herald to the winter months ahead. Meroni watched the swirling mass, black ink dots on lapis blue, shapeshifters in God’s kaleidoscope. The starlings’ murmuration was a stunning sky ballet. Back in the days of the Roman Empire, augurs would study the patterns for auspicious signs. Today, the omens were not good. At least not for the unknown victim.
Gambarella appeared from the forensic tent and lit another cigarette.
‘What do you mean, another unsolved case?’
The inspector shook his head and waved Meroni’s question away. ‘My problem … but I need you back on the team at the Questura. Have you contacted the psychologist yet? She’s good. She’ll fix your head.’
‘No, I haven’t, Gamba. Tell me, is this murder linked to last week’s bomb incident at the Vatican?’
Gambarella blew smoke into the air. ‘How did you come to that theory?’
Meroni shrugged and turned to the uniformed officer who was standing on scene guard. ‘What did you find when you first arrived, signorina?’
The officer looked from Meroni to the row of onlookers who had gathered behind the line of blue and white police tape. ‘I’m sorry?’
‘Simple question, signorina. Tell me, how long have you been in the police service?’
‘Almost a year … signore.’
She was feisty. Meroni looked into the large blue eyes and considered the full, sensual mouth. He leaned in, close enough to feel the soft chill of her cheek against his own. ‘The reason I ask is my old friend Gambarella, despite all his experience, cannot see his own toes nowadays – let alone the clues right in front of him.’
She pursed her lips to stifle laughter.
Gambarella was on Meroni’s shoulder. ‘Officer Bianca, this is the perfect opportunity to impress us with your fresh-out-of-police-school insight.’
Bianca coughed into a gloved hand. ‘Inspector, as you have already said, there is no ID card and nothing else to help us identify the victim. No obvious clues. That is why you called Signor Investigatore.’
Meroni performed a theatrical bow.
Gambarella rolled his eyes and tossed his half-smoked cigarette. ‘Mr. Fucking Detective? I think not, Bianca.’
Meroni pointed to the forensic tent. ‘Officer Bianca, I understand you were the first one here this morning. What did you see when you arrived?’
Gambarella motioned impatiently for Bianca to speak.
‘I can confirm I was the first officer on the scene. I found the body there, behind the construction fence – exactly where it is now. The injuries and strange clothes were the first things I noticed, and it looked as though something had mauled him. I called it in as a murder.’
‘Officer Bianca is observant, Gamba. But I think she may have overheard us talking in the forensic tent.’
Bianca turned her head away from Inspector Gambarella. She frowned at Meroni and mouthed an expletive.
Feisty.
Gambarella watched the swelling crowd beyond the police tape. ‘Well, thank you for your acute observations, Bianca. I also see a corpse, not a ghost. But what is his story? You can get back to your scene guarding duty, officer. Meroni, come with me …’ Gambarella lowered his voice, a conspiratorial whisper. ‘What do you really think?’
‘It is unlikely there will be a record or any trace of him on the DNA database. Immigration might hold a record of sorts: a false name and a fake nationality. More likely, he is one of the many thousands of immigrants of dubious origin that have entered Italy illegally. He is a ghost. But you have this passenger record.’ Meroni handed the evidence bag back to the inspector.
‘New York? Yeah, I can just imagine what the Prosecutor’s Office response will be when I ask them to pay for a flight to the United States based on your ghost theory. They’re already marking my cards. I need you back at the Questura, Meroni. Stop fucking around.’
‘You won’t have to go to New York, Gamba. There is an online database of all the people from Italy who passed through Ellis Island. It’s free to interrogate, which should please our Chief Prosecutor. You can buy copies of the records online without the word “Sample” written across them. Someone has printed this straight from the webpage. The murderer is a cheapskate, or more likely they didn’t want to leave a digital footprint. I was thinking of potential forensic intelligence on the paper.’
Gambarella appeared vexed. There were obvious lines of enquiry to action on this fresh case, and yet the inspector seemed more stressed, and less focussed, than usual.
‘Have any similar incidents been reported recently?’ asked Meroni.
‘Nothing in Rome, but I ordered wider checks to be completed, and a body was found at Piazza del Campo in Siena just over a week ago. They put it down to a Contrada feud. I’ve asked for the details to be sent over.’
Meroni couldn’t recall any reports in the media about a murder in Siena. He needed to pay Russo a visit. His go-to tech partner would know; and, if there was a link to today’s incident, she would find it. ‘Oh, and you’re looking for a large dog, because despite the body being found here at the Colosseum, a lion has not killed this victim.’ Meroni made to walk off.
‘I’m not looking for a lion … Well, thank you for that. The joker returns. I’ve missed your sparkling wit, Meroni.’
‘No obvious claw marks, and no wounds to the neck. Lions get a good bite on the throat to suffocate their prey. It looks like a dog attack. The pathologist’s report should tell you.’
‘Great. You’ve already given me a ghost story, now we’re rewriting The Hound of the Baskervilles.’
‘Elementary, my dear Gamba.’
The inspector was about to launch into another stream of invective when a RaiNews van screeched to a halt amongst the crowd.
Meroni watched the vehicle. ‘Has anyone moved the body?’
Gambarella cast an accusing glance at Bianca.
‘No, we didn’t touch anything. I can assure you, inspector.’
‘Gamba, the victim … he’s got his arms outstretched, head to the side, legs crossed. It’s a crucifixion.’
Gambarella’s hands shook as he lit another cigarette. ‘I don’t see him nailed to a wooden cross.’ He threw the packet to Meroni.
‘Camel?’ Meroni took a cigarette and reached out for a light. ‘These are not your usual brand, duty-free too.’
‘An old friend from England brought them over. I don’t much like the taste; these blue ones are not strong enough for me. You can keep them. I’ve got hundreds of the things. Now, this crucifixion theory …’
Meroni pocketed the cigarettes and the lighter. ‘It’s a sign, a message. If there’s been two murders, it suggests there is another body somewhere. Jesus died on the hill with two others.’
‘Here we go. More of your signs and messages nonsense. We go from Arthur Conan Doyle to Dan Brown. We’ve got the whole classic crime-thriller genre thing going on here. Anybody else we should throw in – Commissario Brunetti, Inspector Montalbano? Do me a favour and stick to what we’ve got. I can’t link Siena until we know the facts. And no, I can’t link the Vatican bomb incident either.’
Meroni kept his eyes on the RaiNews van, waiting for the occupants to show. ‘Who called the police this morning?’
‘Anonymous call.’
‘Phone number?’
‘They withheld it. The reverse call checks show an unregistered, pre-paid mobile.’
‘Top-up purchased where?’
‘No trace. As was the SIM card number before you ask … And yes, we requested cell site checks. Someone turned on the phone, made the call, and then switched it off at this location. No other use detected.’
Meroni watched the RaiNews reporter, microphone in hand, making her way through the crowd.
‘Shit. That’s all I need. Teresa Conti and more of her stupid fucking questions.’ Gambarella threw his cigarette to the ground.
Teresa Conti was always there at a breaking crime story. Meroni stamped out his cigarette and walked over to his Vespa. He grabbed his helmet from the handlebars and straddled the scooter. ‘Gamba, are you sure this does not link to the bomb incident at Saint Peter’s?’
‘How would I know? The Carabinieri Special Operations Group is being somewhat circumspect over that little incident, but I expect Conti will try to link it. I need you with me on this case. Come back to work … You shouldn’t be riding around on that thing, you’re too tall for it. Besides, it’s a death trap.’
Meroni pushed the Vespa’s electric start button and pulled down the visor of his helmet. ‘I would come back to the Questura, Gamba.’
‘So, what’s stopping you, then?’
‘Simple answer: I don’t believe in ghosts.’

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 3


07:30 Tuesday 24 October 2017        
Russo’s Apartment, Via Sistina, Rome
The Vespa’s waspish drone echoed in Meroni’s ears as he weaved around Piazza Barberini. The autumnal air chilled his hands, and he cursed himself for not having worn gloves. Fortunately, the ride from the Colosseum to Russo’s place on Via Sistina only took ten minutes. Despite the early hour, she would be up. A fellow insomniac, he knew she would be all over this breaking news story.
After he had parked up and paid a visit to the pasticceria, Meroni’s hands were full. He kicked at Russo’s door.
No reply.
He kicked again and listened.
A babel of voices murmured within. Russo was watching the news channels. Meroni made to head-butt the door. As he bent forward, it swung open, causing him to stumble over the threshold. 
‘What a grand entrance ... I’m not used to men falling at my feet at this time of day.’ Russo tousled jet-black hair. ‘Lucky you kept your helmet on. That thick head of yours could have caused considerable damage, and I’d like the deposit back when the tenancy is up on this place.’
Meroni held up coffee and pastries.
Russo cocked her head. ‘I hope this is not a social visit. Tell me, when did I last see you?’ 
‘A couple of weeks ago?’ ventured Meroni.
‘More like a month ago. You’re getting lazy. Fat and lazy.’
‘Here, take these and stop whinging.’ He handed over the two small paper cups. ‘And since when have you been my crime manager? You know I only answer to Gambarella. Anyway, I’ve been working out, keeping in shape.’ Meroni unzipped his leather jacket and lifted his T-shirt.
‘Is that supposed to impress me?’ Russo tapped her head. ‘Fat and lazy in here. You need to get back to work.’ She handed back a coffee and wrestled one of the paper bags from his grasp. ‘Pistachio cream – excellent choice …’
She eyed the bag Meroni was holding. He held it out to her. ‘Grazie, I’ll save that one for later. You need to look after your abdominal muscles. Apart from spending too much time in the gym, what’s happening in your world?’
‘I’ve just been at the Colosseum. Things down there are interesting.’ Meroni placed his coffee cup on the marble floor, sat down on the sofa and removed his helmet.
Russo nodded towards her computer monitor. ‘I’m already on it. It’s all over RaiNews. I see Gambarella was his usual stressed and grumpy self … Teresa was looking good as always, although the interview was very bland, just like last week at the Vatican. Not her usual style at all. I wonder what she’s been doing to lose her inner bitch.’ 
Meroni ignored the pointed reference to Teresa Conti. ‘Gambarella is no fool. He’ll keep things tight until he knows more. Do you believe in ghosts, Russo?’
She sat down at her desk, taking a bite from the pastry and a sip of coffee in quick succession. Then she flexed her fingers like a concert pianist. ‘No, but tell me, anyway …’
Russo had developed a search engine to access the Internet and Dark Web in tandem. A virtual journey with no limits. Russo’s invention linked the search engine to the user’s mind. She claimed to have created a crime fighting software program that formed hypotheses based on the user’s investigative insight.
If her claims were true, the technology could earn her a fortune. But Russo wasn’t interested in the money. All she wanted was recognition from her peers and to become a professor of computer science. Meroni admired the altruism. They were kindred spirits working for the public good. The fact she worked for him on a pro bono basis meant she was a cheap asset.
Meroni blessed the evening he had first met her …


Roma were playing Juventus at Stadio Olimpico. Meroni sat behind a skinny girl, with maroon-coloured hair and heavy, black-framed spectacles. Throughout the game, she refreshed her mobile phone screen. When Juventus took the lead in the twenty-first minute, she bet one hundred euros on a Roma win and returned a tenfold sum. An improbable result.
After the game, they sat at an outside table of a bar near Piazza del Popolo.
‘You got lucky,’ said Meroni.
‘The harder I work, the luckier I seem to get.’ The girl unwrapped a paisley patterned scarf from around her neck and removed her suede jacket, to reveal a sleeveless T-shirt.
Meroni regarded the slender arms with their blue ink tattoos. This was a girl with an attitude. ‘Gary Player, the South African golfer, didn’t he say that?’
‘No, Player said: The harder I practice, the luckier I get. I was paraphrasing.’
‘It’s the same difference. Tell me, what is it you practice?’ 
The girl picked up her bottle and tipped it towards Meroni. ‘Opening gambit. Very unoriginal. We can both play that game; except it’s my question to ask. What do you do?’
‘My rules, I asked first.’
‘Excuse me? Your rules? You sat staring at me throughout the game, boring holes in the back of my head, and at the end of the match you followed me out of Stadio Olimpico. You caught the same tram to Piazza del Popolo, and then sat down here at my table, outside my bar. Without asking, I should point out. Forgive my impertinence, but I think you owe me an explanation. My rules.’ She jabbed at the table with her forefinger.
Meroni stroked his chin. ‘I must have lost my touch.’
‘No, you wanted me to spot you. You stayed in view the whole time. I swear I’ve seen that beautiful face on an advertising poster for moisturiser on the Metro.’
‘You’re very observant and facetious.’
‘I think you’re a cop. Un poliziotto. You’re not a model at all.’
Meroni took a long sip of beer. She’d already sussed him out. How had she done that? He lit a cigarette and offered the packet.
‘No thanks, I have too many unhealthy habits.’
Meroni tilted his face upwards and exhaled, contemplating the plume of smoke. ‘I’m not exactly a cop.’
‘What does that mean?’ asked Russo.
‘I got fired. I work freelance, the pay is better.’ It was a lie. He was still a police officer, a detective working undercover for the Polizia di Stato in Rome. He had already told her too much. Hopefully, there was no harm done.
‘So, now you’re a private investigator … has somebody paid you to follow me? Have you been tracking me online? I get it, you want my computer program. Forget it. It’s not for sale!’ She got up to leave.
‘Wait … I know nothing about computers, and I don’t want your program, although I’m intrigued to know what’s so special about it to make you so jumpy.’
The girl sat back down.
‘I saw you at the game crunching numbers and placing that outrageous bet,’ said Meroni.
‘I don’t give out or share any football betting tips either.’
‘And I don’t gamble. Like you, too many unhealthy habits … It’s just that I could do with a partner. Somebody with your skills. You can put my computer illiteracy down to a misspent youth. Anyway, what’s your name?’
The girl pushed her glasses back and screwed her nose. ‘Russo. Roberta Russo. Should I trust you, poster boy?’ 
‘What have you got to lose?’
Russo tapped at her bottom lip as she considered the question. ‘Okay, I’m a PhD student at Sapienza University – computing. I’m not seeking a partner. At least not a male one.’
Meroni took the hint. ‘Roberta, I didn’t mean that type of partner.’
‘I prefer to be called Russo.’
‘Russo, it is.’ Meroni picked at the label on his Birra Peroni bottle. ‘The thing is, I could use your talent. You can decode information and produce improbable results, like Roma’s victory over Juventus after being one-nil down. An Italian Billy Beane. Although football isn’t as predictable as baseball.’
‘That’s where you’re mistaken. Football is so predictable. You may laugh, but it is. Nine times out of ten, Juventus wins tonight’s game, right?’
Meroni nodded. 
‘Meaning, on one occasion Roma gets to win.’
‘I can do the maths on that one.’
Russo pulled a face. ‘There’s no need to be sarcastic … Juventus turned up this evening thinking they have already won the league. Their superiority complex makes them lazy. Fat with success and lazy. On rare occasions, the “Old Lady of Turin” gets caught with her pants down. And that’s not all. Tonight’s referee, like me, is a Torino fan. You play the percentages. And you win.’ She raised her bottle. ‘Cin cin!’
Meroni took another pull on his cigarette. The girl knew her football. ‘Interesting.’
‘A thousand euros worth of interesting … But I don’t believe it! I’ve laid myself bare to a stranger. I can’t believe you did that, but you are a piedipiatti – a flatfoot detective. Now, tell me a bit more about yourself. What’s your name?’
‘Meroni. I also hate being called by my first name. Another drink, Russo?’
‘I’ll get these, Gigi … Do you get called that? After Gigi Meroni, the legendary Torino player. “The Maroon Butterfly” is still revered by the Torinesi. Even those of us who are too young to have seen him play. Do people call you Gigi?’
‘Never.’
‘Can I call you Gigi?’
‘For one night only, and because I’m in a generous mood following tonight’s win, I’ll let you call me that name, which dogged me throughout my calcio career.’
‘You played football?’
‘Academy level at AS Roma Primavera.’
Russo gave an appreciative nod and sang an anthem, pledging her allegiance to the rampant bull mascot of Torino Football Club. ‘It’s still Toro, it’s always Toro … Tell me, Gigi, are you a maverick, like your namesake?’
‘I guess I must be. To tell you the truth, Russo, I’m feeling completely lost and overwhelmed right now. Something big I’m working on. That is why I need a partner – a significant other – to help me in my work.’
Russo wagged a finger at a passing member of the bar staff. ‘I’m going to keep a close eye on you, Gigi Meroni. Lost boys are dangerous. Same again?’
Despite the combative nature, Russo was vulnerable – a delicate maroon butterfly. As their friendship grew, Meroni learned she was in an on-off relationship with a married woman, a professor at Sapienza University, who had no intention of leaving her wealthy and well-connected husband. This reluctance by her lover, caused many arguments. Meroni had lost count of the occasions Russo had called him over to her apartment during the dead of night. Without words, he would sit and comfort her whilst she sought the elusive solace of sleep.
A sleep that never came …


Back to the now.
Meroni looked around the apartment. Russo may have been a genius, but she was no domestic goddess. Textbooks, journals, newspapers, and food cartons usually littered the place; today, her apartment was immaculate, which was very odd.
‘You’ve cleaned up, Russo.’
‘I had nothing else to do except study while you were absent, going through another one of your lost boy phases. Anyway, spring cleaning is good for my tortured soul.’
‘It’s autumn.’
‘I can’t help it if I’m fashionably late. Now tell me what we’ve got.’
Russo kept her eyes fixed on the screen as Meroni spoke about the events at the Colosseum. She was a good listener. 
‘Gambarella was quick off the mark today. He arrived before any tourists or paparazzi. Very unlike him. Teresa Conti was late to the party, which was very unlike her.’
‘Teresa è bellissima.’ Russo clutched a hand to her heart. ‘Such a beautiful woman.’
Again, Meroni ignored her. ‘The caller to police left no name or contact details. It was an unregistered pay-as-you-go mobile with a clean SIM card. The face had been ravaged beyond recognition. My guess is dogs were used to maul the victim after he was killed to prevent identification – they haven’t determined the cause of death yet. Then, whoever did the killing dressed him in old peasant clothing and stuffed a copy of an Ellis Island passenger record in his pocket. Fuck knows what all that is about. Anyway, the victim could be of North African or Arabic origin. ID will be an issue; the tips of his fingers are missing and it’s doubtful there will be a DNA match. I reckon he’s an undocumented migrant. And get this, they placed the body flat on the ground, on its back, arms outstretched, and legs crossed.’
‘Like a crucifixion.’
‘Gamba reckons there was a similar murder in Siena last week. Have you seen anything on that?’
Russo held up her left hand. ‘I think so … But one thing at a time. You say the deceased male looked North African?’
‘Or Arabic.’
‘You think whoever killed him brought the body to Rome?’
‘I do. The same in Siena.’
‘If there is a link to Siena.’
‘We have dead bodies dumped at iconic sites. The murders will be linked, Russo.’
‘I need facts not supposition.’
‘It’s a hypothesis, professore.’
‘Okay, save that happy thought, detective. There’s nothing in any of the Rome-based papers about Siena, or on the main news channels. So, tell me, how exactly did Gambarella make the link?’
Meroni removed the plastic lid off his cup and tossed it on the sofa.
Russo peered at him over her glasses.
‘I’ll pick it up on my way out, okay? But you make a good point. Apparently, when he was told there were no similar incidents in Rome, he ordered further enquiries.’
Russo pressed enter on her keyboard and sat back in her chair. ‘Look at this.’
Meroni got up and walked over. The screen displayed the same image from several sources: a body lying in the middle of Piazza del Campo, impaled by a Contrada flag – the Siena victim.
‘You don’t have to venture far into the Dark Web to find it.’
‘There’s only one image.’
‘You really can do the maths.’
He ignored the sarcasm. ‘Can you enlarge it?’
Russo clicked on one of the images. Somebody had taken the picture before it got light. The photograph wasn’t clear, but the victim appeared young, possibly in his mid-twenties. He was a dark-skinned male, wearing old-fashioned clothes, arms outstretched, legs crossed at the feet, and his hands were missing; again, identification would be a problem. It was no coincidence. The similarities were too striking.
‘Which Contrada is that?’ asked Meroni.
Russo zoomed in on the image. ‘Leocorno.’
‘The unicorn. So, we have a situation where a lion mauls our victim in Rome, and a unicorn has speared the body in Siena, which I would suggest is a powerful message.’
Russo raised her hands. ‘I’m lost already. Where are you going with this? I thought you said a dog was more likely to have killed today’s victim.’
‘The lion and the unicorn are the symbols of the United Kingdom, suggesting that there may be a British connection.’ Meroni picked up his helmet. ‘Russo, I want you to dig deeper; there have been two murders already – assuming Siena is linked, which I’m certain it is – and a third such incident would complete a gruesome Holy Trinity.’
‘Three victims? Hey, where are you off to?’
‘To see Gamba at the Questura. Before I go, log onto the Ellis Island Foundation website. Bring up the name “Antonio Pacitto” in the passenger search.’
Russo clicked away. ‘There are twenty-one matches for that name.’
‘How many from Cassino?’
She counted down the screen. ‘Seven … Well, I never. The number of spiritual perfection – God’s number. I said you were getting fat and lazy. I was mistaken. You may have something with the religious connection. What about the clothing? Hit me with your thoughts on the peasant clothes, Meroni … Meroni?’


Russo turned. The room was empty. Meroni had left his takeaway cup on the floor, the plastic lid discarded on the sofa.
He could have at least taken his crap with him …
She dialled a number from her mobile.
It answered after one ring.
Russo spoke into the silence.
‘Meroni is back in the game.’

OceanofPDF.com

The Cause of All Fear

CHAPTER 4


11:30 Tuesday 24 October 2017                                                     
Questura di Roma, Via di San Vitale, Rome
Gambarella’s workspace was in its usual state of disarray, the green leather desktop littered with case papers and correspondence, coffee cups, food wrappers, and cartons. Apart from a strict adherence to police rules and evidential procedure, Meroni wondered if anything remotely resembling order existed in the inspector’s dysfunctional life.
Gambarella’s wife was an alcoholic and serial adulterer. One evening, after a successful court case, he had been celebrating with Meroni. The wine had got the better of Gambarella, who complained he could not satisfy his wife’s carnal desires and suspected she met her lovers in the bars near to their apartment in Trastevere. He tasked Meroni to find out more. Meroni found out. They never discussed the subject again.
There was also an estranged daughter in Tuscany. A doctor. Meroni took the photograph from Gambarella’s desk and considered the image. The girl was attractive. She had her mother’s looks.
Meroni watched the inspector’s bald head bob up and down behind the computer screen. Gambarella and Russo’s messy habits were at odds with Meroni’s compulsive and regimented behaviour. But out of their collective chaos came forth the strength of his own genius. He had been like it since his football academy days. Before a training session, he would lay his kit out on the bed, take his shower, then dress in strict order: shorts, shirt, socks, joggers, jacket, and trainers. He still dressed each morning in the same meticulous fashion. Meroni’s obsessiveness fed off other people’s disorder; and, like an alchemist, he turned the mayhem into investigative gold. Convictions. The detective’s Holy Grail; the coveted, but often elusive, guilty plea, the beguiling resolution after weeks, months, sometimes years, of challenging work. Justice is everything. Played out in public, it is just the beginning. A guilty plea spared the victims and witnesses from attending court. A small mercy. Evidence counted for nothing once the lawyers got involved. Meroni had crossed the criminal Rubicon many times; he could jump ship whenever he chose. Not so the victims, and their families, who had to endure a seemingly endless journey of grief.
Gambarella snatched back his daughter’s photograph and handed Meroni a sheet of paper. It was a grainy image of the body in the Piazza del Campo, Siena. To Meroni, the symbolism was clear. The lion and the unicorn. A cryptic message hinting at a British involvement in the two killings.
‘Do you still think we are dealing with ghosts, Meroni? I think we’ve got a serial killer on our hands, one who likes to dress his victims up as peasants and stick a century old passenger record in their pockets. Somebody who has been watching too many Netflix box sets and enjoys playing silly fucking games.’
‘Where was the passenger record found?’ asked Meroni.
Gambarella patted the right side of his chest. ‘Inside jacket pocket.’
‘The same for both victims?’
Gambarella nodded.
‘What was the name on the document in Tuscany?’
‘I’m waiting on Siena for that information.’
Meroni messaged Russo. He counted down, holding up his fingers: three-two-one. ‘Look at the images in the email Russo just sent you. Press refresh … Got it? Two photographs. One from the Colosseum, the other a slightly clearer image than the one you just showed me of the body in Piazza del Campo. Tell me what you notice about them?’
‘There are no forensic tents.’
‘Meaning?’
‘The pictures were taken before we received the call – that’s obvious.’
‘I’m convinced both murders were committed elsewhere. Then the dead bodies were dumped. The question is, who took the pictures, Gamba?’
‘Bianca was first on the scene, although she’s a rookie, too young in service to be corrupted …’ Gambarella stopped talking. His pained expression said it all. Nobody was beyond corruption. ‘It could have been the street cleaner we spoke with who claims to have seen a white panel van drive away from the Colosseum at around five forty-five this morning. Anybody could have taken the picture before we arrived on the scene. It is more likely to be a coincidence and not one of your mysterious messages.’
‘The lighting suggests they took both images in the early hours. It’s still dark. The Colosseum and the Piazza del Campo are both major tourist spots, which are never empty …’
‘Except during the night,’ interrupted Gambarella. ‘I get what you’re saying … Two random people walking around at dawn, who come across a macabre murder scene, decide to take a picture, and distribute it on the Dark Web, before their conscience gets the better of them and they put in an anonymous call to the police.’
‘Too much of a coincidence,’ said Meroni.
‘The street cleaner is being questioned now. We’ll ask to examine his phone if only to eliminate him. You really believe that someone killed the victims elsewhere?’
‘A dog attack in the streets outside the Colosseum. The face and fingers bitten off. Where was the blood? I saw no bloodletting at the scene, Gamba.’
The inspector scratched at his beard.
Meroni leaned forward. ‘In Siena, they drove a flagpole through a man’s heart. Do you see any blood on the stones of the Piazza del Campo? And why the Dark Web? Why all the secrecy?’
‘What are you thinking?’ asked the inspector.
‘Have we checked for power outages this morning? Any CCTV or mobile phone signal losses?’ 
Meroni sat back in his chair as Gambarella made the call to his personal assistant, Lucrezia De Valla.
Gambarella turned his back to Meroni and spoke in hushed, almost apologetic tones before replacing the receiver. ‘She’ll get back to me in a minute. What else? I know there’s more. You’ve got that look.’
Meroni lit a cigarette. What was going on here? Why had Gambarella been whispering on the phone to De Valla? 
The two men stared at each other. Despite their differences, Meroni couldn’t help but think their individual strengths and skills were not altogether mutually exclusive. Gambarella played things by the book. Meroni was the wayward genius. It was an odd-ball partnership, but it worked, and he knew Gambarella wanted him back on his team at the Questura. The problem with Meroni being an undercover operative was that he couldn’t fade into the background. He stood at one hundred and ninety-five centimetres in height and was biracial. He was too recognisable. He remembered Gambarella had tried his best to dissuade him from going undercover. But he wouldn’t listen. He felt it was a natural career progression for any detective dedicated to fighting serious and organised crime. 
After the events in Bari, Meroni was thinking of resigning from the police altogether. Gambarella had assured him that taking a break would help clear his head and provide much-needed rest and recuperation; he also gave him contact details for the psychologist. Meroni knew the results he achieved kept the Chief Prosecutor and the other big shots off Gambarella’s back. But he felt disassociated. He couldn’t move on from the resentment he felt for being compromised in Bari. Meroni blamed the organisation for endangering his life. He didn’t feel ready to return to the Questura. He was a decent detective, but he was ineffective as an undercover operative. Meroni had ignored Gambarella’s advice when he told him that undercover work would not be suitable for him – that it was for mavericks. Despite his misgivings, Gambarella kept a close eye on Meroni’s undercover career and helped reinvent him as a model on his last assignment. A Balkan gang were trafficking people across the Adriatic for the Camorra, the Neapolitan Mafia. The victims landed in Bari, but the Camorra moved most of them to Naples, forcing them into sweatshop labour to manufacture cheap designer clothing. Meanwhile, the traffickers forced many teenaged migrants into prostitution. They worked the bars and nightclubs in Bari, finding wealthy clients to compromise. To infiltrate the gang, Meroni’s modelling career was the cover story. People recognised him from men’s fashion magazines. He was the face on Metro posters, bus-stops, and media adverts. So, he blended in – to a degree. 
The operation had gone well. Meroni had got close to the gang leaders; but the senior officer in command had procrastinated over the strike. In gathering the evidence against the traffickers, Meroni had already gone in way too far in honouring his legend. He’d become involved in making pornographic films. That was getting in too deep. He had gathered the evidence. They should have made arrests. But the order never came. Instead, Meroni was told by the trafficking gang he must make a gay film. Refusal was not an option. They had beaten, drugged, and raped him, then sent the video to the police in Rome. The gang used the blowing of Meroni’s cover as a warning to the Italian authorities, indicating that they would harm more police officers if their business were interfered with again. His own side had compromised him. The maverick days were over.
Gambarella was right, he should return to the Questura and the relentless fight against crime in the Eternal City. A detective’s lot at police headquarters was dull but never quiet, and Meroni realised he was missing the everyday mundane.
‘Have you checked in with the psychologist? I also passed your details to her.’
Gambarella meant well, but Meroni didn’t need anybody messing with his head. He was still working things out himself. He knew he would come back. When he felt ready. Soon. But now was not the right time.
The desk phone rang. 
Saved by the bell. 
Gambarella picked up the receiver, listened, and nodded. ‘Grazie, De Valla. Hang on a minute …’ he held his hands over the mouthpiece. ‘Anything else we should ask our colleagues in Siena?’
‘Don’t forget the name on the passenger record,’ said Meroni. He made to pop his cigarette into a soft drink can on Gambarella’s desk. 
The inspector retrieved the can, drank from it, and jerked his head to an overflowing ashtray. ‘De Valla, can you follow up with the investigators in Siena about the passenger record? I know you already asked and have just got off the phone to them, but I need to know the answer now. No, there’s nobody else here, De Valla. No, Meroni is not here …’ Gambarella rolled his eyes. ‘And ask if their city centre CCTV system went down at the time of the murder.’ Gambarella replaced the receiver on its cradle. ‘Another of your admirers. She doesn’t get out much. No money. Her husband is a cokehead.’
Meroni didn’t want to wait for the reports from Siena. Gambarella would again try to persuade him to return to work. Meroni had spent too much time since Bari in the company of women and had not given himself the chance to get his head sorted. He craved the anonymity the Questura offered. But it was too soon. He had to put an end to the soulless relationships and rediscover his old self first. However, this investigation intrigued him.
‘What was the date of the Siena murder?’
Gambarella rummaged through the papers on his desk. ‘Exactly one week ago today …’
‘The same date as the fake bomb incident in St Peter’s Square.’
‘You cannot connect the two events.’
‘No, but it’s a remarkable coincidence, don’t you think?’
Gambarella held out a hand. ‘I’ll have my cigarette lighter back, please.’
Meroni threw the Zippo onto the desk. ‘Call me when you get an answer from Siena, because we might have seven victims.’
‘Seven! You said three, Meroni. You gave me the story of Jesus and the two criminals crucified on the cross … now you say seven? What is this, a fucking Mafia war?’ Sweat beads had broken out on Gambarella’s forehead, the tiny rivulets coursing down his bloated face.
‘God’s number. Russo tells me there are seven passengers named Antonio Pacitto recorded on the Ellis Island website who were from Cassino. Seven young men who sailed to North America at the beginning of the twentieth century. The ghosts are a message. They have delivered two unto us …’
Gambarella slammed his fist on the desk and walked over to the open window. He looked out onto the courtyard and lit a cigarette. ‘Meroni, I don’t need your signs, and messages, or any speculation about seven fucking murders …’ He turned back to an empty office. ‘Where the fuck has he gone now?’


Meroni didn’t wait to hear the rest of what Gambarella had to say. He left the Questura and wandered over to a nearby panini bar, ordered a cappuccino and allowed the killings to consume his thoughts. Two foreign-looking males murdered, photographed at a crime scene and the images uploaded to the Dark Web before the police arrived; the killers had dressed both victims in old clothes and given them historic passenger records. They appeared to have transported the bodies from elsewhere and placed them at iconic tourist sites. They had orchestrated all of it. It was fake news. The deaths had gone unreported. The Siena police had put out a brief statement with no detail. Russo said Gambarella provided Rome’s newspapers and television stations with nothing meaningful.
Meroni wondered what Teresa Conti would make of things. The RaiNews 24 chief correspondent in Rome wouldn’t settle for a holding statement. She would want more. If she didn’t get what she wanted, she would call in favours higher up the food chain; or come to him.
A higher authority would have issued the directives for a media blackout. Meroni guessed the Chief of Police in Siena would have phoned their counterpart in Rome soon after being contacted by De Valla. Someone had restricted the information shared with the mainstream media. The question was, why? 
The lion and the unicorn spoke of a British connection; but the passenger documents related to the United States. It would end up a bloody mess if the Americans were responsible. At any rate, foreign involvement appeared likely. Two ghosts, one chilling message: We have killed your sons, and we will kill more.
Meroni saw the enormous gates to the Questura courtyard open.
Gambarella was carrying a soft drink can; Meroni figured it was the one from his desk. He caught Meroni’s eye before lifting the seat of the Vespa and placing the can inside the helmet carrier.
Meroni glanced over his shoulder.
A guy in a business suit was sitting inside the bar reading La Gazzetta dello Sport.
Nobody had paid any attention to the inspector’s actions. Meroni headed back across the street to his scooter. He lifted the seat and saw the drink can with a note tucked inside. Why had Gambarella gone to such trouble? He could have phoned or sent a text. What was with all the theatrics? Meroni unclipped his helmet and started the scooter.
He drove for four blocks before stopping to retrieve the note.
Siena – CCTV blackout before they found the body, after an anonymous call to police. Name on passenger record – Antonio Pacitto.
The dead don’t talk.
However, the two victims were telling the same story.

OceanofPDF.com