Short Fiction Complete
  



  
Charles Carroll Muñoz, born on July 2, 1926, was a poet, fiction writer and publisher. He wrote as Charles Muñoz and under the pseudonyms T.P. Caravan and TP Caravan.

  
Muñoz served as a WWII navy aerial gunner in Grumman TBF Avenger torpedo bombers. After the war he worked as a United States Merchant Marine radio officer, sailing on freighters, tankers, and passenger ships, and later for several years on munitions ships bound for duty in the wars in Korea and Vietnam. He came ashore for good and married the former Bernardine Martin. For a while, he entertained himself as an explorer of caves, a walker in the desert, and a writer on arctic survival for the Air Force. He then chose a more formal profession, becoming vice president of Springhouse Corporation, a publisher of books and magazines.


  
Charles Muñoz was a specialist in eighteenth-century literature, a member of the Gunroom, a novelist, a science fiction writer, and especially a poet. He attended Columbia University and wrote his masters thesis on English poet Edward Young in 1953. Stowaway, his mainstream sea novel, was published in 1957. His science fiction short stories appeared in the 1950s and 1960s under the pseudonym T.P. Caravan. Muñoz's varied experiences form the background that enriches his poems, which are often conventionally suburban in their location but wildly mythic in their subtext. His poems earned four nominations for the Pushcart Prize.


  
Muñoz was poet laureate of Bucks County, spent five years as poetry editor of Jewish Spectator magazine, and became the official list bard to the Gunroom of HMS Surprise.


  
Charles Carroll Muñoz died on February 22, 2018



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
BIBLIOGRAPHY

  
Novels


  
Stowaway, 1957


  
Collections


  
Fragments of a Myth: Modern Poems on Ancient Themes, 2001



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
SHORT FICTION BIBLIOGRAPHY

  
Happy Solution, Other Worlds Science Stories, January 1952


  
Last Minute, Other Worlds Science Stories, October 1952


  
Fish Story, Other Worlds, November 1952


  
Dinosaur Day, Other Worlds, April 1953


  
Random Sample, The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction, April 1953


  
The Cold, Cold Grave, Other Worlds, May 1953


  
Quarterback Sneak, Science Stories, December 1953


  
A Stitch in Time, Science Stories, February 1954


  
The Soluble Scientist, Universe Science Fiction, March 1954


  
Problem in Geometry, Science Stories, April 1954


  
The Shoemaker of Lan, Universe Science Fiction, January 1955


  
Fission Story, Universe Science Fiction, January 1955


  
. . . Moonshine . . ., Universe Science Fiction, March 1955


  
The Immortality of Professor Bickerstaffe, Other Worlds Science Stories, February 1956


  
The Censors: A Sad Allegory, The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction, August 1963


  
The Court of Tartary, The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction, December 1963


  
Blind Date, The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction, April 1965



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  


  
Jerry eBooks


  
No copyright  2022 by Jerry eBooks


  
No rights reserved.  All parts of this book may be reproduced in any form and by any means for any purpose without any prior written consent of anyone.



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
FICTION SERIES

  
John & the Evil Professor


  
Happy Solution


  
Last Minute


  
Fish Story


  
Dinosaur Day


  
The Cold, Cold Grave


  
Quarterback Sneak


  
The Soluble Scientist


  
Fission Story



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
Happy Solution

  
ONCE upon a time there lived an old and evil professor of chemistry, and he taught at a very famous university which stood on the top of a high mountain overlooking the sea. Many young men used to come to this famous university in order to take the professor’s course in Chemical Thermodynamics 268b, which was a very good course; and every term ninety eight point six of these young men used to fall in love with the professor’s daughter, who was a very beautiful daughter indeed.


  
Do you think that he used to let the students take his daughter to lectures? Do you think that he used to let them dedicate their term papers to her? Do you think that he ever said, “Daughter, you may take your pick of these fine young scholars” ?


  
Well, he didn’t. Not once.


  
He used to sit evilly in his office and lean his elbows on his desk (which was, by the way, full of curious little holes) and look at whichever student it was who had knocked timidly on the door.


  
“Come in,” he would say with a nasty smile. “I suppose you want to marry my daughter.” The student would gulp and look foolish. “I have no objection, no objection at all,” the professor would say, “but I love my daughter” (which was a lie) “and I want to be sure she marries a man worthy of her. I will make a small agreement with you. I will give you three tasks; if you perform them successfully, you may marry my daughter. If you fail, you must serve as my laboratory assistant for three years.”


  
Now, when they heard this, many students used to go away and transfer to the college of Liberal Arts, for they knew how horrible a thing it was to fall into the clutches of this old and evil professor as a lab assistant, for these poor young men spent three dreary years doing nothing at all but fractional distillations; and many of them used to throw themselves off the mountain on which the famous university stood and tumble splash! into the sea.


  
But some used to stand firmly in the doorway and say, “I accept the conditions.”


  
Then the professor used to chuckle happily indeed, for he was always running out of laboratory assistants. “The first task,” he would say, “is to bring me a lock of hair



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  




OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
them in the interference.


  
The only solution was to kill the dinosaur. Have you ever tried to kill a dinosaur? After all, very few universities have Sherman tanks stashed away, and nothing smaller had a chance against the monster.


  
Nobody knew what to do. The president of the university wrote a long memorandum which he sent to the heads of the various departments, who sent nasty notes to the Professors under them, who scolded their graduate students, who kicked the undergraduates, who wept. And the monster stood in the Great Hall and caught people.


  
Now, there was one student in the old and famous university whose name was John. He had to work his way through school because, not being a football player, he wasn’t eligible for a scholarship. He was a genius.


  
Unfortunately, it was his job to sweep out the Great Hall.


  
The evil old Professor laughed and laughed when he realized this, for he hated John with a heated and horrible hatred.


  
“John,” he cried, “Get in there and sweep up. Do your job, John, or I will have you expelled.”


  
John gulped.


  
“And if you are expelled you will have to leave through the Great Hall.” And he leaped and laughed and ran in little circles to show how happy he was.


  
“I can’t do it,” said John, “for there are only three brooms in the whole school, and the dramatic society has borrowed them for the annual Macbeth festival.”


  
The evil old Professor made a noise like a tortured toad. “Eck,” he shouted, “When will they return them?”


  
John leaned miserably against the wall. “Pretty soon,” he said. “Couple of hours.”


  
“Eck, eck, eck,” went the evil old scholar, a very nasty noise. “I’ll see you then.”


  
John walked slowly up to the chemistry laboratory, where his wife was washing bottles. “Goodbye,” he said.


  
“Goodbye,” she said.


  
“Farewell,” he said. “You can have my books.”


  
“Farewell. What books?”


  
“All of ’em.”


  
“Oh,” she said. “Why?”


  
“I’ve got to leave,” he said. “Adieu.”


  
“Adios,” she said. “Where are you going?”


  
“I am going to be eaten by that dinosaur standing by the exit.”


  
“Oh,” she said. “Wait till I’ve finished washing these bottles. I’ll go with you.”


  
“Don’t bother.”


  
“No trouble at all. Why are you going to be eaten?”


  
“Got to,” he said. “Either I sweep up the Great Hall or I get expelled. Either way I’ve got to pass that monster. Goodbye.”


  
“So long.” She clinked two flasks together. “Wouldn’t it be more convenient to kill it?”


  
“Kill it?” He laughed a miserable and melancholy laugh. “How?”


  
“There must be some way. Why not poison it?”


  
“Poison won’t bother that thing,” he said glumly. “It’s already eaten a quarterback.”


  
“Oh,” she said. “Can’t we get help from outside?”


  
“Impossible.”


  
“Too bad,” She said.


  
“Yes.”


  
“John, wait. Aren’t dinosaurs extinct?”


  
“All but this one. They died out long ago.”


  
She threw up her hands happily and hot water spattered over the laboratory. “What killed them then? That’s all we need.”


  
John looked miserable. “I’ve thought of that. There are three theories. The first is that mammals began to evolve and used to eat the dinosaur’s eggs: that’s not much help to us. This one hasn’t laid any eggs.”


  
“Oh.”


  
“Then there’s the idea that the ice age came along and made it too cold for them. I don’t suppose there’s another ice age due for a while yet, not for a couple of million years, anyway; and I’ve only got a couple of hours.”


  
“Oh.”


  
“Then there’s another theory.” He gulped. “They were such fierce beasts that they ate up everything they could catch and died of hunger. That doesn’t do us much good. We won’t be here when he runs out of food.”


  
“Goodbye,” she said.


  
“So long.” He went out of the laboratory. It was too bad. Unhappily, he walked through the familiar halls of the old and famous university. Too bad there wouldn’t be anybody around to study there any more. The trustees had just spent a fortune improving it: they had built an eighty million dollar stadium, they had installed a huge air conditioning unit, they had put golden cuspidors in the faculty lounge, they had donated great portraits of themselves, they had bought fluorescent shoulder pads for the football team. They had even purchased three new books for the library, and they had hardly cut the instructors’ salaries at all.


  
John hated to leave. He didn’t like the idea of making a dinosaur’s dinner: it didn’t seem a scholarly fate.


  
He shivered as if a cold thought had struck him.


  
He wandered unhappily until the Macbeth festival was over. Retrieving his broom from the second witch, he walked slowly to the Great Hall. Distantly, far and dim, he could hear the cruel cackling of the evil old Professor as he sat safe in his office and laughed his evil old heart out. “None of this,” John said to himself. “No dawdling!” He stuck his chest out and marched to his fate. “No cold feet,” he said.


  
He threw open the door, holding his broom in readiness.


  
After he had swept out the Great Hall, he rigged a block and tackle and dumped the dinosaur’s body into the sea.


  
Then he went upstairs to the laboratory. “Guess what,” he said to his wife.


  
“I know what,” she said. “The beast is dead.”


  
“How did you know?”


  
“Dry these test tubes,” she said. “I killed him.”


  
The crash and tinkle of the breaking glass brought the evil old Professor bounding out of his office. “You’ll pay,” he screamed. “You’ll pay. It’s you, John! Get downstairs and let the dinosaur eat you up.”


  
“He’s dead,” said John.


  
“Dead!” The Professor grew furious. “Nonsense! I’ll teach you to tell lies to a mad scientist. Dead! How did you kill him?” And he whirled around the room like an evil old tornado.


  
“I didn’t,” John said. “My wife did.”


  
“You!” screamed the old scholar, for John’s wife was the Professor’s daughter, and he hated her worse than he hated John (which was impossible, but he did it). “Impossible.”


  
“Father!” she said happily. “This is the first time you’ve spoken to me since John and I were married. You’ve forgiven us!”


  
And his fury was so great he fell in a faint on the floor of the laboratory and lay in a puddle of acid which hissed away in a small cloud of steam as soon as it touched him.


  
“I guess he hasn’t,” John said. “How did you kill the monster down there?”


  
“Oh,” she said. “You told me the ice


  
age made it too cold for them.”


  
“Sure.”


  
“I turned on the air conditioning in the Great Hall. I guess he froze to death.


  
The poor thing was used to a hot climate.”


  
“What do you know?” he said. “No wonder I had cold feet. Kiss me.”


  
“You’re standing on father,” she said.


  
“Fine.” said John.


  
THE END



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
Random Sample

  
Perhaps the best way to introduce this grim morality for parents who spoil their children is to remark that the bending of the twig does not always affect the inclination of just a single tree.


  
IF YOU DON’T give me another piece of candy I’ll cry. You’d be surprised how loud I can cry. Mother wouldn’t like that.


  
Thank you. I just love candy.


  
I’m very polite for my age; everybody says so. I can get more candy that way. Old ladies are best. I’m also a very intelligent little girl, but I suppose you found that out from your tests. They gave me the same kind of tests, but they didn’t give me any candy, so I was bad and didn’t answer anything right.


  
Thank you. I’ll take two this time. Do you have any hard candies? The heat’s melted these chocolates a little.


  
My father says to get all I can out of you, because all you Viennese headthumpers are quacks. He says you cost an awful lot of money. He says only an old fraud would have a beard like a billy goat. He says . . .


  
Are you getting angry?


  
All right, then, if you give me just one more piece of candy I’ll tell you all about it.


  
Merci. That’s French, you know.


  
My brother Johnny and I were out in the back yard, stomping ants, when the space ship came down. It’s fun sometimes to watch ants, they run around so hopefully going about their business, carrying little bits of twigs and things in their mouths; and they don’t even seem to know you’re there until your foot just about touches them. Then they run away, waving their feelers before they squish. But the big red ants are the really good ones. You can jump right spang on them and they don’t even seem to notice it. I guess they sink into the ground a little ways, because if you pound one between two rocks he squishes without any trouble. They taste funny. Once Johnny saw a red one fighting a black one and they kept on fighting until he burned them both up with his magnifying glass.


  
Will you buy me a magnifying glass if I tell you about it? I’d just love to have a magnifying glass. I bet the ant thinks the sun is spread out over the whole sky. I bet he thinks the whole world is burning up. I bet it hurts. I bet I could burn up more ants than Johnny can, even though I’m a whole year younger. He’s ten.


  
Please, can I have a magnifying glass? Please? Please? Can I? Can I? I’ll cry.


  
When can I have it?


  
Thank you.


  
It was his birthday so I let him take the ones near the ant hill. I’m really very generous at times. You let them get almost down the hole before you jump on them. That’s the most fun. I was watching one I’d pulled the legs off, waiting to see if the others would eat it, when Johnny yelled for me to come quick and I went running over. He showed me one ant carrying another on its back, trying to get it down into the ant hill before we squished it. We were just about to stomp on its little head when we heard the noise in the sky. It was the kind of skreeky sound I make when I pull my fingernail along the blackboard in school and make old Miss Cooper get the shivers. I hate Miss Cooper. She doesn’t give me any candy—thank you—and I never answer any questions for her.


  
We looked up and saw the rocket ship coming down for a landing in the woods. It didn’t look like a ship to me, but that’s what Johnny says it was. It looked like a big washing machine to me. Father says it was a hallucination—I like big words—but he didn’t even see it, so how could he know?


  
Sometimes I hate Father. Are you writing that down? Was that the right thing to say? Can I have some more candy?


  
Thank you.


  
This is very good, even if it is melted. I should think you could afford to have your office air conditioned, then the candy wouldn’t melt at all. If you were smart you’d think of these things.


  
What happened? I’ve told it over and over but nobody believes me. Isn’t that sad? I don’t think I’ll tell anybody else about it.


  
The whole box? For me? Thank you. I just love chocolates.


  
Your beard isn’t really much like a billy goat’s.


  
We saw it come down in the woods and we ran over to the place. Nobody else was there. The grass and underbrush was burning a little but they were putting it out, and when they saw us they stopped still and made little noises to each other. I held up my hand and I said, “I’m queen here. You must all bow down.” And Johnny held up his hand and said, “I’m king.” He never thinks of anything for himself.


  
I hate them. They didn’t bow down to me. One of them picked up a squirrel that had been burned a little when they landed, and he was petting it and putting something on the burned place, and he didn’t pay any attention to me. I hated him most of all, so I went over and kicked him. He was smaller than Johnny, so Johnny kicked him too. I kicked him first, though, and he was just my size.


  
What did they look like? They didn’t look like little old billy goats.


  
They took us inside their space ship, and they started to give us some tests like the one you gave me. They were very simple tests, but I didn’t like them so I got them all wrong. Johnny got them all wrong too, because I told him I’d scratch his eyes out if he didn’t. I remember some of them. They drew little triangles with boxes on two of the sides and then they gave me the pen and waited to see what I’d do. I fooled them. I took the pen and threw ink all over them. It wasn’t a pen, exactly, but it was like one. Then they held up one little block, then two, then three, then four. They did this a few times, and then they held up one block, then two. Then they waited for me to pick up three. I picked up all the blocks and hit them over the head with them. I had a lot of fun. I was very bad.


  
They got Johnny off in a corner, and before you could say boo! he was telling them about all the people he’d killed in the war. He wasn’t really in the war, of course, but he likes to pretend he was. He likes television best when they kill lots of people. I don’t think they really knew what he was talking about, but they looked as if they did. He’s a very good actor.


  
I suppose they thought we were grownups; they were pretty much the same size we are. Anyway, they paid a lot of attention to him, so I went over and punched him a couple of times. I’m afraid we broke up the insides of their space ship a little.


  
They looked pretty mad. I guess they were disgusted with Johnny; a lot of people are. I always try to make a good impression on strangers, even when they don’t give me any candy, so I took some of them outside and showed them how to stomp ants. It was very funny. One of them got sick. Johnny and I were still jumping up and down, stomping ants, when they took off. I hated them. They were nasty; they didn’t bow down to me.


  
That’s all. Nothing else happened.


  
Father says not to take up too much of your expensive old time. He says no honest man could afford a penthouse for his office. You have a very nice view, don’t you? You can see all over the city from here.


  
My, isn’t it hot? I wish I had a refrigerator to keep my candy in.


  
Look there. Look at the fires springing up across the river. Aren’t they pretty? Look. Look. And some on this side.


  
Take me away from here. It’s too hot.


  
Look at the sun. Look at it. It’s spreading out over the whole sky. It’s burning up the city. Billy goat, help me! Save me. I’m sorry I was bad.



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
The Cold, Cold Grave

  
DID you ever hear of a mad scientist who did something for the benefit of humanity? Of course not. Mad scientists do evil, evil, evil all the time. They have to: it’s their job.


  
Yet one of the maddest of mad scientists once stumbled across a discovery which made the whole world thank him and think kind thoughts about him. It was a discovery which helped the lives of two billion people. He did a thing so good that when he found out about it he went into his office and cried for ninety-eight point six days, and his tears took the varnish right off his desk.


  
This is what happened.


  
He was calling the roll one day in his classroom, hoping to find one of his students absent so he could fail him for the term. He always failed everybody anyway, but he liked to be mean about it.


  
“Finnegan,” he called.


  
“Present.”


  
“Bloom.”


  
“Present.”


  
“Earwicker.”


  
“Present.”


  
“John.”


  
“Present.”


  
The professor looked up from his roll book.


  
“You have a cold?”


  
John nodded miserably.


  
“Good.” And on he went, calling the roll. When it was over he pounded his head against the wall. “Silence!” he cried. “I have a new rule to tell you.” The students whipped out notebooks and filing cards. “Starting today any student who comes to class with a cold will automatically fail. Do you understand?”


  
The students nodded.


  
“And now I will give you a small exercise in logic. Premise: students with colds fail this course. Statement of fact: John has a cold. Ergo: ergo what?”


  
“Ergo: John fails,” the class shouted.


  
“Q.E.D.” replied the professor. “Quod erat demonstrandum: that which was to be shown. Well done, class.” And he happily swallowed two test tubes and a bunsen burner. “John fails.” And he laughed, and his laughter was like the sound of turtles being crushed under falling palm trees, a sound nearly impossible to describe,



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  




OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
a horrible sound, an unforgettable sound. The class shuddered.


  
“John fails. John will never be a scientist. Go, John, and starve!” For he hated John.


  
“Kerchoo!” replied John in the saddest tone imaginable, for he didn’t especially want to starve. Starving may be a valuable habit for artists, but scientists need lots of food to cover up the liquor on their breath. Scientists are nearly always drunk, which explains many of the strange things they do. He got up sadly from his stool and walked slowly from the room. He looked hungry already.


  
“Now,” shouted the professor, “that is the end of John,” and he laughed again.


  
This time his laughter was like the sound of ships sinking, and all the students looked down at their notebooks and trembled.


  
“Out with your microscopes!” cried the old and evil professor.


  
“Quickly!” He rushed up and down the aisles of the lab as the students whisked their microscopes from the locker and set them up on the tables. “Faster!” he screeched, whirling wildly around. The tail of his tuxedo (he always wore evening clothes when plotting evil) whisked out and knocked two microscopes to the floor and he leaped on them and ground them to bent brass and broken glass beneath his evil heels. “Clumsy!” he shouted to the two nearest students. “You fail.” And he leaped to the front of the room and screamed for silence.


  
“Silence,” he screamed, and the class was silent. You could hear John’s unhappy footsteps crossing the campus outside, heading for the edge of the high cliff on which the old and famous university stood, for it was the custom for students to fling themselves over this precipice whenever they failed, which was pretty often.


  
“Histology,” shouted the professor, “today we study histology. A small quiz first! What is histology?” and he pointed his evil forefinger at a terrified coed, who fainted. “Wrong,” he cried. “Histology is the study of tissues!” And he failed her. “Somebody bring her to. Here. Pour this on her.” He gave one of the students a flask full of colorless liquid. “Don’t get any on the floor,” he said, but the girl had already recovered and fled from the room.


  
Then the professor stood quietly in front of the room and smiled at the class. Seeing his smile, the class shifted uneasily, for the professor never smiled unless he was happy, and nothing made him happy except the knowledge that he had some evil plan up his wrinkled sleeve. He smiled such a smile that three frogs, seeing it from the specimen tank, leaped seven feet into the air and fell dead; two windows cracked and shattered, and a pig embryo floating in a jar of alcohol turned bright green and sank to the bottom.


  
It was not a nice smile.


  
“Next question,” he said. “What are the smallest cells in the human body?”


  
Trembling, the students slipped underneath the tables, for nobody knew the answer. They looked fearfully at one another, for the professor used to occasionally dissect a student who failed to properly answer. “I’ll split you like an infinitive!” he used to horribly yell, but this time he didn’t say a word; and when the frightened young scientists peeked over their lab tables, they saw him sitting quietly on the chandelier, grinning down at them. “You don’t know?” he asked mildly. “You don’t know what the smallest unit of life in the human body is? Sit up in your seats and we will have a small experiment to find out.” And he leaped, thump! down to the floor and ran to his desk.


  
Opening a drawer, he took out a flask filled with a fiercely fluttering fluid. “Look! Look! Here is a chemical I’ve just invented. One drop will be enough to go right to the smallest living part of the body and destroy it utterly. Better yet! Whatever type of cell that may be, my little invention will destroy every other cell of its type: Yes! Utterly! Utterly! What will happen then?”


  
“Death,” said one of the students, “Death quickly or death slowly, but death and the cold, cold, grave; for if all the cells of one type in the body are destroyed there can be no regeneration and no healing. Aristotle says . . .”


  
“Silence!” shouted the old and evil professor, “You talk too much. You fail.” He waved the flask. “But you are correct. Whatever it may be, that smallest unit of life in the body, it will be destroyed and all similar cells will be destroyed. Suppose it is a nerve: all nerve cells will go. Ha! Suppose it is connective tissue. Ha! A muscle cell, perhaps. How foolish you would look without muscles! And I have discovered it.” He looked at them. “I want a volunteer,” he said softly. “Who’ll try it first?” And he began to prowl quietly up and down the laboratory. “Speak!” he shrieked. “First one to speak gets to drink it all. I have more.”


  
Suddenly the door opened and John poked his head in. “Good afternoon,” he said. “I’m back. I went to fling myself over the cliff but there was a line ahead of me so I came back to hear the rest of the lecture.”


  
“Hello, John,” said the old and evil professor. “Come in, my son. Take your old seat. Sit down. I’m glad to see you back. I’m sorry I failed you, John, sorry, sorry, sorry. But nothing can be done about it now.” And he smiled horribly. “Wait,” he said. “Perhaps you would like to help in a small experiment.


  
Perhaps I can pass you after all.”


  
John looked surprised: nobody ever passed the evil old scholar’s courses. “Fine.” he said.


  
“Drink this.”


  
John drank it. “I think a touch of nutmeg might have helped the flavor,” he said. “What was it?”


  
“Nothing, John,” said the old and evil professor. “How is your cold?”


  
“Kerchoo!” said John. “Getting worse.”


  
“Well, don’t worry about it. According to my figures you’ll be dead in three hours and seven minutes, so you won’t have to be bothered with handkerchiefs for a long time to come.”


  
“Kerchoo!”


  
“The liquid you just drank was a poison which is already starting to dissolve the smallest units of life in your body. Farewell.”


  
“Kerchoo!” said John. “May I have the rest of the period off? I’d like to say goodbye to my wife.”


  
And now the evil old professor began to laugh. “Yeek, yeek,” he laughed. “Yeek, yeek. Yes, John. Go and say goodbye, but return in three hours and six minutes so we may watch you perish.”


  
So away went John, and the poison worked inside him.


  
And in three hours and six minutes he came back into the classroom.


  
“Hello, John,” said the professor. “How are you?”


  
“I feel fine,” said John.


  
“Good. Would you mind climbing up on the demonstration table? You have almost fifty seconds to live.”


  
John leaped up on the table. “I never felt better,” he said.


  
“Forty seconds.”


  
“Ha, ha,” said John.


  
“Thirty seconds. You might be interested in the formula.” And the evil old scientist went like a huge spider to the blackboard and filled it with figures and peculiar signs. “It is one of my best inventions. You have twenty seconds to live.”


  
“Very interesting,” said John, memorizing the formula.


  
“Ten seconds.”


  
“Goodbye.”


  
“Five seconds. Goodbye.”


  
“I’ve never been poisoned before.”


  
“Time’s up.” And the professor turned happily to the class and crunched pieces of chalk between his happy fangs. “There you have it. John is dead. I expect a full report in your laboratory manuals. Green ink for the numbers, pink pencil for the diagrams.” And he leaped high into the air, whirling for joy and kicking cheerfully at the students. “John is dead.”


  
“No I’m not,” John said.


  
“Nonsense!” screamed the evil old professor. “Science proves you dead.”


  
“But I’m not.”


  
“Subjective error! Hallucination! Unscientific sentimentality! The poison couldn’t fail.”


  
“Oh, the poison worked fine,” John said. “But I’m not dead.”


  
“Why not? Why not?” he howled, and his thin hair streamed up and shot out sparks.


  
“It’s this way,” John said, dodging. “That poison of yours was designed to kill everything of the type of the smallest unit of life in my body. If the smallest cell was a muscle cell every muscle in my body—striated or smooth—would be destroyed. Right?”


  
“Right!”


  
“But you assumed the smallest living unit in my body was a cell.”


  
“Wasn’t it? Wasn’t it?”


  
John smiled happily. “I had a cold,” he said. “I was full of viruses, and the filterable virus is so small it can’t even be seen with an ordinary microscope.” He climbed down from the demonstration table. “Some of them are only a single protein molecule. Your poison killed them. You’ve discovered a cure for the common cold.”


  
He held out his hand to congratulate the old and evil professor, but with a wail of rage he knocked John to the floor and rushed like a hateful crab into his office, where he remained for ninety-eight point six days, weeping, while the great news of his cold cure spread out over the earth and two billion people were thankful. He remained in his office thinking and plotting, and planning and persevering, but he never became unhappy enough to commit suicide, which was a pity.


  
And John went home to his wife and never had a cold again, but he developed an ingrown toenail from being stamped on by the evil old professor, and when the professor heard this he became happy enough to sing, and his singing made cracks in the science building’s walls.



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
Quarterback Sneak

  
Being a further account of the adventures of John, his beautiful wife, and the old and evil professor.


  
ONCE upon a time at an old and famous university there lived and lurked a certain old and evil professor, who had been teaching various science classes for ninety-eight point six years. One day he was standing in his laboratory teaching his class in Biology 762 (Evolution and How to Ignore It), and everything had been going along normally: six students were asleep, two had fainted, three were dead, and one—whose name was John—was slowly being turned into an ape, or something very like an ape, and the rest were busily taking notes; when in rushed the football coach and the president and the whole bumbling board of trustees, blubbering and shouting, for they had just discovered that the old and evil professor had failed Quarterback Mike.


  
“Is it true?” they gasped. “Is it true that you flunked Quarterback Mike, who has been our star quarterback for the last seven years?”


  
The old and evil professor snarled fiendishly. “That’s right. He registered for my famous course in Amino Acid Titration Curve Analysis and Theory of Absorption Spectra. That’s the one where I fail everybody. In fact, I fail everybody in all my courses. It simplifies the paper work.”


  
“But you can’t fail Quarterback Mike,” they chorused.


  
“Ha!”


  
“He’s our best football player.”


  
“Too late! Too late! He’s already failed and that’s all there is to it,” and he kicked a sleeping student and tore up two masters’ theses in his glee.


  
At this, the football coach and the president and the board of trustees began wailing and beating their heads against one of the walls, but it was a sturdy building, and did nothing more than tremble a bit.


  
“Silence!” said the old and evil professor. “I have an experiment going on.” He gestured at the student named John, the one who was being turned into an ape, or something very like an ape. “Look. Watch. Isn’t it beautiful to see what science can do?”


  
“Stap my vittles!” said John. “Rot me!”


  
And the evil old professor chuckled chillingly. “He’s already back before 1700. Hear him?”


  
“Zounds!” said John. “Zooks!” His wife didn’t let him swear, but he



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  




OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
felt that this was a special occasion.


  
“Further back and further!” screeched the mad scientist.


  
“I beseche right humbly,” said John. “Screche not. Mine ear like to braste. Alas, and weep for John.”


  
“Ungrammatical,” murmured a student of linguistics who was passing by, “but it has a fourteenth century accent.”


  
“In here!” yelled the professor, dragging him into the laboratory. “I need you.” He shoved him to a seat near the window which looked out on the sea gnashing its teeth against the rocks far below. “He’ll be going back faster and faster each minute. Back to the Roman era, back before that, back past Sanscrit and past the original first language, back past the pre-language stage to the common ancestor of ape and man. Back further and faster, back to a lemur-like creature, back to a smaller mammal, back to a fish and beyond. Faster! Faster! Millions of years! Back to a bit of primordal ooze! Ha! Back to nothing! And we will see it. Evolution in reverse!”


  
“I beg your pardon?” said the student of linguistics.


  
“John! John! This student here. I’ve given him an injection that will send him whirling backward along the line of his evolution. I want you to tell me what year he’s reached. Where is he now? Where? Where?”


  
“Sic transeo mundo. Vae mihi! Lugete . . . quantum est hominum venustioruml John Mortuus est.”


  
“What’s he saying? What? What?” The student of linguistics smiled proudly. “That’s classical Latin.” he announced. “He says he’s leaving the world. Woe is him. Mourn, all good people (or you could translate that: Mourn, what of more charming people there is) John is dead.” He smiled ever more proudly. “Of course, I prefer the good Saint Berkley’s exegesis of that difficult phrase: in the year 572 he discovered . . .”


  
“Silence!” screeched the old and evil professor. “None of your linguistic fibble-fabble here! This is a scientific laboratory!”


  
“Hey,” said the trustees. “What we gonna do for a quarterback?”


  
“Is that really John?” asked the president of the old and famous university, for like everybody else except the professor, he liked John.


  
“Asti,” said John sadly.


  
“He says it is,” sullenly murmured the linguist. “Fibble-fabble indeed! Can you understand Sanscrit like that? You’ll notice that the vowel A is used in place of both E and O. This proves . . .”


  
“Haven’t I told you to be silent? Enough! Take a mass of unreal and undigested data and call it a science. Bah!”


  
“Where we gonna get a quarterback?”


  
“Linguistics is a science! It is! Philology! It is!”


  
“What we gonna do in the game tomorrow?”


  
“It is not!”


  
“It is!”


  
“You gotta get us a quarterback!”


  
“Silence!” and he began to howl, and a horrible howl it was, until everyone fell silent.


  
He looked at John, who was standing mournfully on a lab table, and the sight of his predicament restored his good humor, for he hated John more than he hated anybody else, which was going some. He hated John first because John was a nice guy, and he hated him second because John had gone and married his daughter, and he hated him worst of all because John and his daughter were happy. The old and evil professor hated to see people being happy, and he hated his daughter because she was beautiful: he hated all beautiful things. But now John was slowly being turned into a bit of prehistoric mud, and so the scientist was cheered up. “Does it hurt?” he asked hopefully.


  
“N,” said John.


  
“Listen,” shouted the student of linguistics. “Vocalic N: the ur-negatation. He’s back to the basic language. Beautiful!”


  
“What did he say?” snarled the professor.


  
“I told you. He said no. He’s as primitive as he can be and still talk. Wait till I do a paper on this!”


  
“He won’t talk any more?”


  
“Not a bit! Look at that jaw. It isn’t shaped for speech. He may make noises, but no reputable philologist would . . .”


  
“Then I won’t need you,” said the old and evil scholar, flinging the student of linguistics out the window. “Claim that nonsense to be a science,” he shouted after him. “I wish I had time to dispose of you properly.” And he stood in the window until the student had hit bottom and until the splash had subsided and the vultures flew down and pecked at the waves. “Science!” he said. “Ha!”


  
And now John’s shoulders were slumping down and his brow was slanting back and hair was popping out all over his body, for as he went further back he moved faster and faster toward nothingness. His fingers grew thick and gnarled, and great muscles sprang out on his chest and arms and legs.


  
“Cave man,” said the professor.


  
“You gotta get us a quarterback,” said the trustees. “Quit fooling around.”


  
And the professor smiled. “This is no fooling around,” he said. “This is for keeps. John here is doomed. Look! Look!”


  
And now the football coach picked up a hypodermic syringe which was lying on the professor’s desk. “What’s this?” he asked.


  
“That!” said the old scholar. “That’s the antidote. It stops the process, I might want to keep him a fish for a while and let him swim around with the frogs and electric eels in the specimen tank. Put it down.”


  
But with a sudden lunge, the coach jabbed the needle into John’s mighty right arm and plunged the antidote into his vein. “Sirs,” he said, turning to the trustees, “Our problem is solved. John here is the perfect quarterback.”


  
“Huh?” said the trustees.


  
“Observe the strong arms and the thick skull. Observe those thick brow ridges and the flat nose. Look at the sharp teeth and those huge feet and hands. Notice the dull, stupid expression: no temperament there, no brains to scramble. This man is perfect.”


  
“He’s not a man.” howled the old and evil professor. “He’s not a man any more. He’s a missing link, or something close to one. He’s a Pithecanthropus Erectus. Why did you go and ruin my experiment?”


  
“Why did you go and ruin our quarterback?” The coach helped John down from the laboratory table. “Come on,” he said. “We’ve got to teach you to play football.”


  
“Ug,” said John, shambling out of the room behind the coach.


  
And the professor was so angry he tore a cyclotron apart and ate it.


  
IN the first ten minutes of the big game John made six touchdowns and broke two legs for people who tried to tackle him. He couldn’t run at all, but the only way to stop him was to trick him into stepping out of bounds. This wasn’t hard, because John wasn’t quite as smart as a gorilla, though he looked something like one.


  
He was no good at all on the defense, but whenever one of the other team made a touchdown, John would pick him up and fling him into the stands, growling and showing his teeth. The other team soon stopped making touchdowns.


  
At the half the score was ninety-eight point six to twelve, and the cheer leaders of the old and famous university were leading wild cheers for John, for no quarterback had ever played such a powerful game before. Even the old and evil professor was happy, because the coach and trustees had promised to give John back to him after the game so he could go on with the experiment. There was only one unhappy face in the whole vast stadium, and it belonged to John’s wife, who sat on the chilly concrete and wept. She could tell that John was so stupid that he cared only for football.


  
There was nothing she could do.


  
Nothing.


  
She watched miserably as the game drew toward its end and as the score mounted. She watched as John made another touchdown and she watched as the opposing coach rushed out on the field and began to shout to the referee. John stood by silently, waiting for the ball again.


  
“Look at him,” shouted the opposing coach. “Look at him. He’s an ape. I just noticed. He ain’t human. That’s cheating.”


  
“Ug,” said John.


  
“He’s not an ape,” said Coach Capulet. “He’s a Pithecanthropus Erectus.”


  
“Well, he ain’t human.”


  
“So what?” said Capulet.


  
“So he can’t play.”


  
“Where does it say in the rules that the players have to be human?”


  
The opposing coach began to jump up and down. “He gotta be a registered student. He gotta pass his courses. You can’t tell me this thing here passes courses.”


  
And the old and evil professor rushed out on the field, looking like a snarling snapping turtle that had forgotten its shell. “Until yesterday,” he snarled, “this thing was a genius. It’s a fully registered and matriculated student in the department of science,” and he started to make a speech proving that linguistics, psychology, economics, and sociology were not sciences but merely a mass of superstition and bad dreams. He may have been right, but they pushed him off the field.


  
Saying “Ug,” John scratched his head.


  
“Look,” cried the opposing coach. “It ain’t wearing no helmet. All players got to wear a helmet. It’s in the sanity clause.”


  
And when John’s wife heard the opposing coach insist that John wear a helmet, she straightened up and stopped weeping, and she began to think. She thought so hard that two birds flying over the stadium fell bango! right out of the sky. She thought so hard that the sun was eclipsed and the cleated scrubs did squeak and gibber in the locker room. She thought so hard (and she was a genius) that she figured out what was going to happen and what to do about it.


  
She rushed from the stadium and bought a raw and bloody side of beef from the nearest butcher, and then she rushed back.


  
She was quick about it, so they were still arguing when she returned.


  
“All right,” cried Coach Capulet.


  
“I’ll get him a helmet.”


  
He tore a helmet from a substitute center and jammed it down on John’s head. It fell off.


  
“Push it down on his forehead,” said the referee.


  
“He has no forehead,” said the coach.


  
“Then make some arrangement for a chin-strap.”


  
“He has no chin.”


  
“Ug,” said John.


  
“Then if he can’t wear a helmet, he can’t play, and all the points he scored won’t count.” And the referee strode off to award the game to the opposing team.


  
“Wait,” cried the president of the old and famous university, “I have an idea,” and John’s wife hugged the side of beef, for it was all happening as she had foreseen.


  
“Why don’t we get the professor to bring him up a little nearer the human? Not too much, of course, but a few million years: enough to give him some sort of chin. Can you do that?”


  
“Of course I can do that,” snarled the old and evil scientist. “I can do anything. But we have to be sure to stop him in plenty of time to keep him stupid enough to play football. If he should become human again it might be hard to convince him to go on with the experiment.”


  
“Naturally,” agreed the president. “Give him a shot to start him back toward the human state, and stand by with that other serum to stop the process. After the game you can turn him into an eagle, for all I care.”


  
“Don’t be foolish. What would I want with an eagle? I hate birds.”


  
“You hate everything.”


  
“Not everything. Buzzards and vultures aren’t so bad.” He took out a huge hypodermic and jabbed John, who said “Ug.”


  
“We’ll stop him around the eolithic period. Don’t worry about his getting away: he’s so stupid that football is all he cares for. There’s nothing that could make him leave the stadium before the game ends.”


  
“Ray!” screamed the cheerleaders. “John! John! John!” and the stands screamed back, dancing and howling and cheering and not getting their homework done.


  
Suddenly John’s wife darted out and onto the playing field and she rushed with the raw and bloody side of beef past John, and John, who hadn’t eaten for two days, started shambling and lurching after her. Did you ever try to stop a thing weighing several hundred pounds who hadn’t eaten for two days and who now saw a meal and started after it, saying “Ug” ? Don’t. He flung aside the old and evil professor and the coach and the whole board of trustees and even the cheerleaders and he staggered along after his wife and the side of beef.


  
She rushed from the stadium, and he ruined after her, picking up speed all the time as he changed toward something more human. By the time he reached the cave man stage, he wasn’t running after the beef any more, but after his wife. Pretty soon all his muscles disappeared and he looked as human and scholarly as he had ever looked, and now he was running from the football game, and he got away.


  
So that was that. John and his wife went home and had roast beef for supper for seven weeks, and the trustees went off to buy some real gorillas to play football with specially designed helmets, and the old and evil professor got a pair of pliers and went around in a rage, pulling sophomores’ teeth out until he felt better.


  
THE END



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  




OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
IT was a pleasant morning, a very pleasant morning, the rich kind of morning that promises a gold and silver day. Doctor Nicholls squeaked his hands together in delight and rubbed them fondly over his bald head. He whirled happily in his swivel chair and hummed what may have been a tune. The expensive desk glittered in the gay sunshine; the expensive clock struck ten.


  
“Time is money,” cried Doctor Nicholls to himself. “To work, to work.” He pushed a button.


  
The expensive receptionist came into the office. “There is one patient, doctor. A new one.”


  
The doctor’s heart jumped with delight, like a trout leaping high after a golden bug. “Fine,” he said. “Does my goatee need combing?”


  
“It’s perfect, doctor.”


  
“Good. Let’s have the nut in, then.”


  
“Doctor . . .” She stood in the doorway, hesitating.


  
“Well?”


  
“This one doesn’t look rich.”


  
“Not rich?”


  
“This one looks crazy.”


  
The gold went out of the sunshine: it wasn’t a pleasant morning any more. The doctor’s regular patients were all plump and wealthy and sometimes a bit neurotic. Whenever someone who was less than wealthy and more than neurotic came to the doctor for help, he would have the patient committed at once. Sometimes Doctor Nicholls lost a whole afternoon in the process.


  
He sighed. “All right, Martha. Send him in. You might call the State Hospital and have them reserve a bed.”


  
“What ward, doctor?”


  
“How should I know what ward before I’ve seen the patient? The violent ward, tell them the violent ward—they’re usually violent when I have them committed.” When he laughed you could see the gold glitter in his teeth. “Especially the sane ones. Show him in, Martha, show him in.”


  
In good humor again, he waited for his patient.


  
“Hello, Uncle Milton.”


  
Doctor Nicholls leaped to his feet. “Bosley,” he said angrily. “What are you doing here?”


  
“I’m crazy, Uncle Milton.”


  
“Get out of here.”


  
Bosley ran a hand through his dust-colored hair. “You better cure me,” he said. “Suppose I went and told some of your patients what the Latin on that diploma of yours really means.”


  
The doctor slumped back in his chair. It squeaked mournfully beneath him. “You wouldn’t,” he said.


  
“Know all men by these here presents that Milton Nicholls has fulfilled and accomplished the requirements of our faculty and has proven himself fully worthy of the honors and trusts and rights and benefits of a graduate of this school and is hereby awarded the certificate of Television Service Man, second class.”


  
“All right,” said the doctor. “All right.”


  
“Why second class, Uncle Milton?”


  
“I flunked.”


  
“Oh.”


  
“What is it you want, Bosley?”


  
“I told you, Uncle Milton. I want you to cure me.”


  
“Cure you of what?”


  
“I got a feeling . . .”


  
“Come to the point, Bosley. Don’t waste my time. Time is money.”


  
“Yeah.” Bosley waved a racing form at his uncle. “That’s just my problem: time and money. I got this idea a couple of years ago and now it’s driven me batty.”


  
The doctor waved glumly at the couch. “Lie down and tell me about it.”


  
“I better stay standing up. I fall asleep if I lie down.”


  
“Get plenty of fresh air and vegetables. Take a long trip. Goodbye.”


  
“I can’t take a trip. I got no money.”


  
“You have no money?”


  
“If you cure me I’ll pay you a million dollars.”


  
“Bosley, will you tell me what you’re talking about?”


  
“Listen, Uncle Milton. It’s like this. I figured if I knew how all the horse races came out for the last hundred years or so I could really clean up. Know what I mean?”


  
The doctor twisted his goatee, “No,” he said.


  
“I figured I could win every time if I just learned the winner of each race and then went back and made a bet on it.”


  
“Went back where, in heaven’s name?”


  
“Went back in time, Uncle Milton. I figured this all out, understand? I figured it out and then I spent the next couple of years learning them.”


  
“Learning what?”


  
“I told you. I learned the results of every race in the world for the last hundred years.”


  
The doctor looked at his nephew. “My advice to you, Bosley, is to go back in time and make your bets. Goodbye.” He reached out to shake hands.


  
“I can’t.”


  
“You can’t? You can’t do a simple thing like that? Shame, Bosley. Why don’t you go away somewhere and try some more?”


  
“That’s what’s driving me crazy, Uncle Milton. You got to fix me up so I can go back in time.” So for six months Doctor Nicholls wasted his golden afternoons trying to cure his nephew.


  
“Bosley,” he said after the end of the sixth month. “Are you sure you know the results of every race for the last hundred years?”


  
“Sure.”


  
The doctor took down a book. “Tell me who won the stakes at Dublin on June 16th of 1904.”


  
“Throwaway.” Bosley smiled proudly. “Do you want the time?”


  
“Never mind. I had hoped you might be forgetting this absurd information.”


  
“It’s not absurd, Uncle Milton. Soon as I go back I can clean up.”


  
“Listen, Bosley.” The doctor placed his hands together and leaned over his desk. He had worked hard to reach this minute. It was his last plan. “Listen. If you really went back to 1904, would you remember the future?”


  
“Don’t be silly, doc. How can you remember what hasn’t happened yet?”


  
“Then how would you remember the winner?”


  
“I don’t know, Uncle Milton. I just would. I’d just walk up to the bookie and the name of the horse would come to me.”


  
Doctor Nicholls’ eyes glittered. He leaned further over the desk. “Then how do you know you haven’t?”


  
“Haven’t what?”


  
“How do you know you haven’t come back to this point in time from fifty years in the future? Look at it that way, Bosley, and this absurd compulsion or whatever it is will vanish away. You won’t want to go back to the past if you think of this as the past. Mental hygiene! Say these words to yourself each morning when you get up: every day in every way I’m getting further and further back. See? You said yourself that you wouldn’t remember the future, didn’t you?”


  
“Sure.”


  
“And you can’t remember the future, can you?”


  
“No.”


  
“What more proof do you want?”


  
Bosley looked confused.


  
“And now goodbye, my boy. The rest is up to you. Pretend you’ve succeeded in your quest for the past and you’ll be cured. Goodbye, Bosley, goodbye. Don’t bother to come back.”


  
Bosley went, but he came back.


  
He came back the next day with a satchel full of money, and he took out a million dollars and placed it on his uncle’s desk.


  
“Thanks, Uncle Milton,” he said. “You cured me. I remembered eight winners yesterday.”



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
THE old and evil professor of biochemistry and many other subjects was elated. His laughter rang far out over the sea, scaring birds as it went. He was delighted with the results of his latest experiment. He leaped chuckling around a huge vat filled with a nasty looking green liquid and a nasty looking yellow liquid, giving occasional screams of joy when he saw that the two liquids wouldn’t mix no matter what he did.


  
“Look,” he shouted to his students. “Observe. There is no possible way to mix these liquids. I have used pressure, heat, agitation, vaporization and every catalyst in the book. I have even used witchcraft and black magic. I have used everything except human sacrifice to force these two liquids into combination. Ha! There is no way. See? See?” And he danced happily across the laboratory, kicking students as he went.


  
A student named John held up his hand. “What would happen if they did combine?” he asked.


  
“Ha!” cried the professor. “It would be a perfect cure for ingrown toenails. But it won’t ever happen and so the millions of sufferers will continue to suffer. I have proved it can’t happen! Yeek!” And he leaped higher and higher, for he loved to think of continued suffering. “There will never be a cure for ingrown toenails until these two liquids combine.”


  
“And they can’t combine?” asked John.


  
“Right!” screamed the old scientist.


  
“Are you sure?”


  
“Sure? I am always sure. I am a genius.”


  
“So am I,” muttered John. “At least, my wife is.”


  
Now John’s wife was the evil old professor’s daughter, and the professor hated her with a bright purple hatred. He hated John with a bright red hatred, and he hated the rest of the world with a pale pink hatred, so you can see how much he hated his daughter and his son-in-law. “John,” he said, “I will make a deal with you. If you find a way—but there is no way—to mix these two liquids, I will pass you for the term and let you graduate. If you cannot find a way—and there is no way—to mix them, I will have you expelled at once. You have twelve hours. I suggest you pack. Goodbye.”


  
“Wait,” cried John. “I have not agreed. The thing is impossible.”


  
“I didn’t say you had to agree. It was I who made the stipulations, and it is I who will fail you. I intend to fail you anyhow, but I will give you this chance to pass.” This was mean, for the professor knew that a futile hope was more cruel than no hope at all.


  
“Hmmm,” said John, scratching his head—a habit he had picked up one day when the professor had temporarily turned him into an ape—“I guess I have to accept What catalysts did you try?”


  
The evil old scientist leaped for joy. “All of them. Everything in the book, every chemical there is. Give up, John.” He flung a portable oscilloscope at a student who had his hand raised. “Put that hand down,” he snarled. “Ask your questions somewhere else.”


  
“Every catalyst?” asked John.


  
“Every one.”


  
The student cautiously raised his hand again. “What’s a catalyst?” he asked, ducking under the table just in time to miss a pack of Rorschach cards which came flying across the room at him.


  
“Pick those up,” said the scientist angrily. “I play solitaire with ’em to settle my nerves.” He waited until the poor student had brought the cards back to his desk and then bashed him on the head with a square wave signal generator. “Anybody else who doesn’t know what a catalyst is?” He looked out at a forest of hands. “Fools,” he snarled, which was unfair, for—though he was a professor—he never taught his students anything but fear. “You’re a senior, John. Tell them.” And he rushed around the classroom, laughing happily at the thought of failing and expelling John while millions of sufferers suffered from relentless ingrown toenails.


  
“Well,” said John. “Er . . .” He juggled a piece of chalk. “Ah . . .” He cleared his throat. He coughed. He strangled a bit and pounded himself on the back. He blushed. “Uh . . .”


  
“Excellent,” muttered the evil old professor.


  
“Look . . . Er . . . You take . . . I mean . . . It’s difficult to explain. You take two elements that won’t combine . . . No . . . That’s not it exactly.” He turned to the blackboard. “Look. Take C2H5OH. Take two molecules of it. You can break it down to C2H5-O-C2H5 plus H2O. It’s simple. You just heat it. Nothing to it chemically. You can see how the OH radical drops off the C2H5. Now you started with two molecules, so you have two of these pxygen-hydrogen units to account for: two hydrogen radicals and two oxygen radicals. One of the oxygens makes the O between the two C2H5’s and the other hooks up with the two spare H radicals to make the water molecule.” He turned back to the class. “I hope this isn’t boring.”


  
The professor stopped leaping around the room. “Never worry about boring your pupils,” he said. “Bored students fall asleep and don’t make any trouble. So far you’ve been completely wrong. You can’t do the experiment simply by the application of heat.”


  
“I was leading up to that,” said John, throwing his chalk at the professor. “You can heat it all day Thursday and it won’t break down and recombine the way you want it to. What you do is add the catalyst. A catalyst is a substance in whose presence a chemical change will take place that won’t perceptably proceed without it. At the end of the experiment you get your catalyst back unchanged. Simply add sulphuric acid to your test tube and the thing will work perfectly.”


  
“So your problem is to find a catalyst to make that nasty green liquid combine with that nasty yellow liquid to make an ingrown-toenail cure,” said one of the students.


  
And from the back of the room the evil old professor’s laughter rang out happily. “Right!” he shrieked. “But he can’t find any because I tried ’em all. By the way, I plan to fail everyone in the class when I fail John. He has less than eleven hours left. Goodbye.” And he rushed from the room.


  
Well, as you may imagine, John spent the next ten hours and fifty-nine minutes in trying everything he could think of to make the two liquids in the huge vat combine with one another. He tried sulphuric acid and platinum wires and snowballs and tungsten and the rare earths and berkelium and hydrogen, he tried illuminating gas and gumdrops, he tried acids and bases and salts, he even tried swearing and kicking the side of the vat. Nothing worked.


  
Finally, as he heard the evil footsteps of the professor approaching down the hall, he turned to the students gathered around him. “Mes amis,” he said, “Il me faut . . .”


  
“Hey,” somebody said. “Talk louder. I can’t understand you.”


  
“I’m sorry,” said John. “I was confused. I’ve been tearing my brains apart to find a catalyst but I’ve failed. There is only one thing more to try.” He drew himself up. “My friends, it is necessary for me to make the supreme sacrifice. Farewell. Somebody tell my wife.”


  
Turning, he leaped into the huge vat.


  
What did you expect? It worked.


  
John was the perfect catalyst. The two liquids, the green one and the yellow one, burbled and churned and flowed together to make a beautiful transparent blue fluid that bubbled merrily.


  
There was only one trouble; John dissolved.


  
Human sacrifice was the only thing the evil old professor hadn’t tried. Scientists aren’t so smart; sometimes they overlook obvious things like that, simple things. That’s what makes them mad.


  
There was nobody madder than the mad scientist when he rushed into the laboratory and saw that John had succeeded.


  
“He has succeeded! How? How? How?” And he began to strangle himself in his fury. “Where is he?” He cursed a curse so horrible it turned two students into jackrabbits who hopped frantically away from his flailing feet. “Where is John?” he cried, almost incoherent from anger. “Tell me, tell me, tell me, Elmer.”


  
And the sad student named Elmer, the one who had been bashed over the head for asking what a catalyst was, pointed mournfully at the vat of blue liquid. “In there,” he said. “Dissolving. He asked us to tell his wife.”


  
“Dissolving?” shouted the professor, turning mottled for joy. “Is that little lump of stuff John?” His face was the color of a scrambled egg sprinkled with cod liver oil, and he leaped high into the air and did two back flips. “Look at him go!” he cried. “In seven minutes he’ll be completely used up. Yeek! Yeek!” This was true: John was dissolving so rapidly that in seven minutes there would be nothing left except a fading memory and a heap of old examination papers. Of course, there wasn’t much of John left as it was, for he had already been dissolving for some time, but seven minutes would finish the job. “Tell his wife!” cried the professor. “I want her to come and see this. Run! Hurry! Quick!” And he laughed such a loud and bitter laugh that the students rushed out of the room in a panic and fled screaming across the campus.


  
In a few minutes John’s beautiful wife had reached the laboratory and had climbed up beside the huge vat. “Ha!” cried her father, the old and evil professor. “Look! There goes John. Now you will starve in the cold and the snow and the hurricanes. Look! Ha!”


  
As she peered down into the bubbling burbling bright blue lively lovely looking liquid, an eyeball popped up to the surface. It was an eyeball with one small glistening tear in it, an eyeball with a sad and noble look in it, an eyeball slightly bloodshot from the fatigue of almost eleven hours of constant unsuccessful search for a catalyst, an eyeball that gazed solemnly at her, a familiar eyeball that seemed to wink once, an eyeball—John’s eyeball—that dissolved with an audible pop!


  
“Seven minutes!” cried the professor. “That’s the end of John. Yeek! Yeek!” And he peered down into the liquid to see if there were any parts of John which hadn’t fully dissolved yet.


  
“My goodness,” said John’s wife, “it’s a good thing I didn’t come any later or I would have missed seeing him go. The eyeball would naturally be the last thing to dissolve: eyeballs are largely sclero-proteins and of course they have to be hydrolized before they’ll enter into solution.”


  
“Naturally,” snarled the old and evil scientist, who hadn’t thought of this. “That’s the end of John.” And he rubbed his bony hands together and leaped across the room to his desk. “I will keep my promise. I told him that if he succeeded in mixing the two liquids I would pass him. Ha! Perhaps we can have a small graduated beaker full of this blue liquid at the commencement exercises. John will probably be the first student ever to receive his Bachelor of Science degree while dissolved in ingrown toenail cure. Yeek! Now I can get on with my hobby without interference.”


  
John’s wife shuddered when she heard this, for she knew that her father’s hobby was collecting ways of ending the earth.


  
“Get out!” he cried. “Go out into the cruel world and starve! And take your memories of him and these old examination papers. Go!” He pointed one gnarly finger at the door. “John is dead.”


  
“Not dead,” said a moist voice from the vat, “merely somewhat dissolved.”


  
The professor whirled.


  
John’s wife whirled.


  
Three books fell from the wall.


  
“John!” cried the professor.


  
“John!” cried John’s wife.


  
“Hello,” said John. He climbed down from the rim of the vat and stood dripping on the floor.


  
“But you dissolved,” cried the professor.


  
“I saw you dissolve,” cried the girl.


  
“Sure,” said John. “But I didn’t stay dissolved. And my ingrown toenails are cured.”


  
The evil old scientist was too furious to speak, and John’s wife was too delighted to speak, so Raphael, who was a parrot that lived in a cage under the professor’s desk where he could be kicked whenever no students were handy, poked his head out and asked: “How come you didn’t stay dissolved? How come? Ha?”


  
John gave him a cracker. “Look here, Raphael. Did you see that formula I put on the blackboard when the class was here?”


  
“Awrk.”


  
“That was the dehydration of alcohol to make ether. We had to use sulphuric acid as a catalyst, but you saw how we got all our sulphuric acid back after the experiment was over.”


  
“Naturally,” shouted the professor. “Even this stupid parrot knows that a catalyst doesn’t enter into the reaction.”


  
“Awrk,” said Raphael.


  
“Ah,” said John, “but it does. If you’d stop kicking holes in the ceiling you’d remember that it does enter the reaction in some cases where we can prove it easily. That experiment I put on the blackboard, for example: alcohol, C2H5OH, in the presence of sulphuric acid, H2SO4, breaks down to form ether, C2H5, and water, H2O, leaving you with the same sulphuric acid that you started out with; but if you stop the reaction in the middle you’ll find that you can isolate C2H5H5O4 and water. See? The catalyst enters into the reaction to form an intermediate stage, but it gets put back into its old form when the end-product is reached. That’s what happened to me: I was the catalyst that supported the reaction while the two liquids mixed, but when the mixing was completed I was reassembled in my old form.”


  
John turned to his wife. “So now we’ve got this vast vat full of ingrown toenail cure and the professor has passed me for the term, which is nice of him. Let’s go home and build a wall to hang my diploma on.” Laughing, they ran from the lab.


  
The old and evil professor slowly knelt down and began to bash his head against the floor.


  
THE END



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  




OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
EDDIE wiggled comfortably in his seat, almost forgetting to chew his gum. Life was full for him. Life was a symphony, an epic, all the grandeur of space, beauty and adventure, terror and pity. Life was the story of Killer Mike.


  
Killer Mike stepped slowly around the death ray machine, his faithful pistol clenched tightly in his strong right hand. His narrow lips tightened as he sneaked up behind the six guards and bashed them into unconsciousness. Drawing a blowtorch from his kit of burglar tools, he began to dismantle the death ray, unconscious of the eight armed monster at the door. The monster approached.


  
Eddie leaned forward and his heart beat faster. This was life. Life on the frontier.


  
Captain Hassen snored gently as he lay on the couch in his office.


  
The purser soothed a space-sick passenger in the lounge two decks below.


  
Ramsay, the chief mate, picked up the bridge telephone and spoke to the navigating compartment. “Ready for overdrive,” he said.


  
“Thirty seconds,” said the navigator. The ship’s lights dimmed as the warp-generator took power from the line.


  
Sparks turned on his transmitter and tapped out his departure report.


  
Killer Mike whirled suddenly, his sensitive ears hearing the monster’s slithering approach. They met in a death-grapple.


  
Eddie moaned with excitement. Life! There was no glory and no shining danger on the Sol-Procyon run. Only the adventures of Killer Mike as he took from the rich and gave to the poor filled Eddie’s dull days with the beauty of violence. He ran the reels over and over each trip, but he never grew tired of them.


  
Captain Hassen turned over comfortably in his sleep.


  
“No ma’am. Yes ma’am,” said the purser. He was paid five hundred a month, and he earned it. “Yes ma’am,” he said. “No ma’am.”


  
The chief mate yawned.


  
The ship went on overdrive.


  
Putting down his slide rule, the navigator lit a cigarette. The ship’s receptors were already feeding information to the comparison unit. The computer clucked happily as it began to file warp data.


  
Sparks turned off his useless receiver and began to read.


  
There was a revolving shaft inside the computor, and this shaft began to turn. Wrapped around it was a piece of thin wire. The far end of this wire went to the pin of a demolition grenade. The wire tightened.


  
Eddie gulped nervously as Killer Mike struggled to reach his knife.


  
The captain smiled in his sleep, dreaming of the farm he was going to buy somewhere in Minnesota someday.


  
Sparks turned a page.


  
The grenade exploded. A piece of the computor slashed through the navigator’s throat.


  
Ringing shrilly, the high clanging of the general alarm filled the ship. Airtight doors slammed shut. Captain Hassen rolled from the couch and rushed toward the bridge.


  
The navigator died.


  
Chief Mate Ramsay whirled from the general alarm button as the captain came running in. “Explosion in the nav compartment, sir. The board shows no fire.”


  
“All right,” said the captain. They turned toward the door together as Eddie came thundering through it and skidded to a halt beside the manual gyro crank at his emergency station. “What is it, pirates?” he asked.


  
Sparks sat anxiously in the silent radio room. There was nothing he could do while the ship was on overdrive.


  
“No ma’am,” said the purser. “There’s no cause for alarm. Yes ma’am, I’m sure your dog will be all right. No ma’am. Yes ma’am. Everything’s under control. Yes ma’am. No ma’am.”


  
“Keep the bridge, Mister Ramsay,” the captain said. “You can open the airtight doors. I want to take a look at the nav compartment.” He returned almost immediately. “The computer’s gone,” he said. “Blown up. Navigator’s dead. I don’t know what we’re going to do.” He sat down in the conning chair. “I don’t know what we’re going to do at all. I think it’s sabotage, a grenade perhaps. There’s no chance of fixing that computer, Mister Ramsay, and without it we’re lost out here on overdrive.”


  
“Take it easy, Skipper,” the mate said.


  
“I’m only a ferryboat captain: New York one day, Procyon Three the next. How the devil am I supposed to navigate through subspace without a computor? It’s never been done.” He put his head in his hands. “How much fuel have we?”


  
“About eight hundred megawatt hours, Skipper. We can stay in sub-space for months.”


  
“Months! Sure we can. But what for? We’ve got to warp back to normal space sometime, and how are we going to know where? We don’t have enough power to go back on overdrive once we leave it: suppose we come out between the galaxies? Suppose we come out in the middle of a star? Figure it out for yourself, Mister. We can leave subspace anywhere in the universe, anywhere; and only two hundred and sixty-five planets have been settled. What are the chances of coming within a parsec of one of them? It would take the computor to tell you: I don’t know any numbers high enough. I just don’t know.” He shook his head. “I don’t know at all.”


  
“It’s a nice problem, Skipper.”


  
“Um,” said the captain. He stood up and walked to the annunciator. “Now hear this,” he bellowed into it. “Will any crew members or passengers who have training in mathematics please report to the bridge?”


  
Eddie stood silently at his emergency station. Just stood there: nobody shooting nobody, nobody running around screaming, no pirates trying to capture the ship, nothing. Just a machine blowed up and killed the nav officer. He sighed.


  
“Might as well do something,” the captain said, turning to the chief mate. “We can’t just sit around and wait for our fuel to run out. I remember reading that six geniuses, working full time for twenty years without stopping to sleep or eat, could figure out where to take a ship off overdrive. That means a hundred and twenty geniuses could do it in one year, but we’ve only got six months’ rations aboard. Anyhow, we don’t have a hundred and twenty geniuses: the computor was supposed to be able to work the problem in a couple of minutes.”


  
Sparks came into the bridge. “What’s up?” he asked.


  
“Do you know math, Sparks?”


  
“I took enough for a degree in electrical engineering, but I guess I’ve forgotten most of it.” He grinned at them. “Anyhow, I flunked out.”


  
“Tell you in a minute, Sparks,” the captain said. “Let’s see who else shows up.” He drummed his fingers nervously on the blank surface of a viewscreen. “What are the chances of sending out a distress call?”


  
The radio officer’s grin faded. “An SOS? On overdrive? Can’t be done, sir. The sub-space geometry garbles the wave patterns completely, and you have the problem of hitting an antenna in normal space with a wave train in subspace that seems to be going almost infinitely fast: they just won’t resonate to such a short wave length. Then you’ve got to figure out what direction to beam your signal in, and you’ve got to figure out what a straight line looks like. I guess the computor can give us the constants for the warp, so we can do that, but then there’s the problem of polarization: your vertical and horiz . . .”


  
“All right, Sparks. I get the idea. No SOS. The computer’s been destroyed. That’s the problem: without it we can’t figure out the sub-space geometry, and without knowing the geometry we can’t navigate.”


  
Sparks sat down suddenly. “Oh,” he said.


  
Dopes, Eddie thought, what they worrying about an SOS for? The ship was OK. No meteor holes, no pirates, no fire. There wasn’t nothing wrong and already they’re yelling for help. Old man Hassen sure was a different kind of skipper from Killer Mike. Old Mike would haul out his proton gun and shoot somebody, boom! A lousy machine blows up a little and kills the navigator, and right away everybody gets so scared they can’t stand up. Dopes.


  
The purser came in. “Sorry I’m late, sir. I had to get rid of about a dozen old ladies who wanted to throw fits.”


  
“Do you know any math, purser?” the captain asked.


  
“Statistics, sir. It’s my hobby. And a little calculus.”


  
“That may be some help. Do you think you could . . .”


  
“Is this the bridge?”


  
They turned to the door. The purser groaned. “Yes ma’am,” he said. “I’m sorry, but the operating spaces are off limits to passengers during emergencies.”


  
“Oh dear,” she said. “I didn’t intend to trespass, but that nice man’s voice on the loudspeaker said for everyone who had a knowledge of mathematics to come to the bridge, and he said Please, so I thought I’d just come along and tell you whatever it is you wanted to know.” She beamed around at them. “My name is Miss Dutton.”


  
“Listen,” the captain said. “Do you think you could work out the rate and direction of change of the sub-space coordinates in a four dimensional geometry whose radius of curvature is an unknown variable, given a continuing reading of the apparent gravatic constants met on our track within the subspace? I mean could you work out a geometry we could navigate by?”


  
“I’m afraid I don’t quite understand,” she said.


  
He shook his head unhappily. “I’m afraid I don’t either, but that’s our problem.”


  
The purser brought her a chair. “Will you sit down, Miss Dutton? We have to . . . Is that an umbrella?”


  
“Oh, yes. I never travel without it.”


  
“Uh . . . yes.” He cast a despairing glance at the mate.


  
Ramsay stepped forward. “Are you a mathematician, Miss Dutton? Our computer has been destroyed, and we have to find a way to navigate through sub-space. The books say it can’t be done.”


  
She settled herself primly in the chair. “The books are always right, young man. You can count on that. I’ve been teaching elementary algebra at the Decote School for Backward and Maladjusted Children now for almost forty years, and I’ve never found the text to be wrong yet.”


  
The captain moaned softly. “You teach algebra to idiots,” he said. “And the purser’s hobby is calculus.”


  
“Only differential,” said the purser. “Mostly I fool around with statistics.”


  
“Not idiots,” said Miss Dutton, “morons.”


  
“And you took college math, but you flunked out.”


  
Sparks looked up, blushing. “I didn’t really flunk,” he said. “I quit to ship out on a freighter. I could of passed if I’d tried.”


  
“Um.” The captain turned to the chief mate. “And you and I took our math at the academy twenty or thirty years ago.”


  
“Yeah,” said the mate, “and I don’t remember mine. And even if I did, and even if I knew all there was to know about math, and even if I had all the books and tables I needed, even then I couldn’t figure out a sub-space geometry.”


  
Dopes, thought Eddie: Dopes. He decided to stop listening. He had worries of his own. In his hurry to reach his emergency station on the bridge, he had left his projector running. The film would keep going over and over until he shut it off, round and round, wearing itself out. Could he sue the company? Killer Mike wouldn’t even need a minute to figure out what to do, and here they were jabbering away, talk talk talk. That was what made Killer Mike a hero: he never had to think. Dopes. He concentrated on his chewing gum.


  
“Look, skipper,” the purser said, “I’m not sure I know what’s going on. I thought the nav officer could fix the computer if it broke down.”


  
The captain looked unhappily around him. “I’d better start from the beginning. The computor isn’t simply broken. It’s been blown up by a demolition grenade: there’s nothing left of it and there’s no way to build a new one with just the spare parts. The nav officer’s dead. The explosion killed him.”


  
Miss Dutton waved her umbrella. “Are you telling me, young man, that explosives are allowed to get into the machinery of this ship? I think it’s shameful!”


  
“It isn’t customary for us to blow up our own gear, ma’am. Somebody sabotaged the computer. There is still a fairly large group of people on Earth who consider space travel sinful, and occasionally they try to wreck a ship to prove their point.” He rubbed his hand through his thin hair. “They seem to have wrecked this one.”


  
“Why doesn’t somebody do something? Why don’t you find the guilty one and have him punished?”


  
“He won’t be here, ma’am. If you considered space travel a sin you wouldn’t be here, would you? Especially if you’d arranged for the ship to disappear?”


  
“I? I am not a fanatic, young man, and I consider it most ungentlemanly of you to suggest I am.”


  
The captain smiled at her. “Sorry,” he said. “I guess I’m under a strain of sorts. What I mean is we don’t have to worry about the saboteur: he’s back on Earth telling his friends how holy he is. Our problem is to . . . I’ll start from the beginning. Let me explain overdrive theory. I’m not a nav specialist, but I know something about it. You can’t travel faster than the speed of light: there’s no getting around that; and since the stars are light-years and light-centuries away from us we were cut off from them until the overdrive was invented. Instead of travelling through the tremendous distances of interstellar space, we simply warp the space itself and travel through the warp. What the overdrive does—or seems to do—is shrink the whole universe down to a fraction of its real size; real, that is, in the sense that it is measured by the time it takes light to pass through it. As a matter of fact, we could theoretically warp the universe right down to a point, and then we wouldn’t have to travel through sub-space at all: we’d be everyplace at once. The trouble is, we’d have no control over where we’d be when we came out of overdrive: we might be anywhere. You see?”


  
“No,” said Miss Dutton. “If every ship that leaves the solar system for another star warps the whole universe, why don’t we on Earth see everything warp each time a ship takes off?”


  
The purser cleared his throat. “You might say that you are warped, too.”


  
“Nonsense,” she said. “I’m sure I’d notice.”


  
“Um . . . Yes.”


  
Dopes, thought Eddie. You push a button and you’re on overdrive and then you wait a couple of hours and push another button and you’re at Procyon. All these people do is think and talk, think and talk. Too much thinking is bad for the head. It drives you nuts. He waited sullenly for the captain to remember to take the crew off emergency stations.


  
“Look, Miss Dutton,” the captain said. “I’m sure the purser didn’t mean to imply you were . . . Let us say that the ship is warped relative to the universe: that’s just as valid. It’s easier, though, for our purposes, to think of it as if the universe is warped. What we do, then, looking at it from our point of view, is warp the entire continuum down to a size we can travel across at a reasonable speed. The trouble is this: that warpeddown space is full of kinks and twists put there by the presence of matter in it. We effectively reduce the size of the universe without reducing the mass of it: consequently, it’s a geometrical nightmare. No two parts of it are the same. Do you follow me?” Without pausing, he went ahead. “Now, in order to plot a course through this sub-space, we have to work out its geometry, and that’s what the computor’s used for. We have a bank of receptors which constantly measure the gravitational forces acting on our hull, and the computor, taking the apparant change in these forces as we move, uses this change to figure out the radius of curvature and all the other qualities of the geometry of our particular warp. From that information we plot our course.” He looked around. “The receptors aren’t harmed. All we can tell here is how gravitation is affected by the warp. Can anybody figure out a way to do the computor’s work ourselves?”


  
Sparks looked up at him. “Couldn’t we just head for the strongest source of gravitation? It ought to be the nearest.”


  
“No good. The inverse square law doesn’t apply when your distances are distorted.”


  
“Oh.”


  
“And there isn’t any sense to the readings, not till the geometry is worked out.”


  
“Can’t we simply turn around and go back to Earth?” asked Miss Dutton.


  
“No ma’am,” the chief mate said. “We wouldn’t know when we were back there.”


  
And so Eddie stood angrily at his emergency station for three hours while the captain and the others talked.


  
“. . . but if I took the ship off overdrive,” the captain said, “the chances are tremendously in favor of us being between two stars or even two galaxies without enough fuel to reach either of them. It’s almost a certainty we’d be outside the settled zone. But what else can I do?”


  
They looked at one another glumly.


  
“All right,” the captain said. “That’s what I’ll do.” He walked slowly toward the control panel. “It’s no chance at all, but we have to take it.”


  
Eddie’s patience ran out. “Damn it, skipper,” he said. “You going to keep us at emergency stations here forever? I left my projector running.”


  
The Captain, startled, looked across the bridge at him. “I’m sorry, Fowler. I forgot all about you.”


  
Miss Dutton left her chair. “You’re young Edward Fowler,” she said happily. “You were in my class four years ago. I recognize you.”


  
Eddie squirmed miserably. “Yes’m,” he said. “Can I . . . May I go now? I got one end of the reel spliced back to the other end, and it keeps running over and over. I’m afraid it’ll wear itself out.” He danced slightly in his excitement.


  
“All right,” the captain said. “You can secure from emergency stations.”


  
Eddie rushed out.


  
“I always like to meet my old students,” Miss Dutton said. “What was that about his reel?”


  
Sparks was glad to take his mind off the ship’s troubles. “He has a collection of wild space pictures he looks at,” he said. “He’s figured out some way to splice the end of the film to the beginning, and he just sits there and lets it repeat over and over.”


  
“Skipper,” the purser said quietly.


  
“What?”


  
“I know a way to get us out of this mess.”


  
The captain turned from the control panel. “Let’s have it.” There was sweat on his forehead, though it was cool in the bridge.


  
“The receptor unit isn’t hurt, is it?”


  
“No,” said the mate. “But what good’s . . .”


  
“We can get a measurement of the sub-space gravitic constants continually, can’t we?”


  
“Yeah. But they don’t mean anything until we compare them to normal space constants and feed the difference to the computor.”


  
“Sure. Then there’s a unit to do the comparison, isn’t there? Is that broken?”


  
“Of course not. It’s built in the console with the receptor.” The mate glared at him. “Why don’t you admit we’re lost? What’s the good of . . .”


  
“Let him talk, Mister Ramsay,” the captain said.


  
“Listen,” said the purser. “We have the sub-space constants from the first instant we entered overdrive: we can use the readings for the entrance point in one side of the comparison unit. As soon as we get the same readings coming in the other side, we’ll know we’re back at the place we started from. Come out of overdrive there, and we’ll be back near Earth.”


  
The mate snorted angrily. “So we turn around and go back. How do we turn around in sub-space without knowing the geometry? What does a hundred eighty degrees look like out here?” He turned to the captain. “Skipper, we’re wasting time.”


  
The radio operator began to laugh. “I see it,” he said happily. Rushing over to the purser he slapped him on the back.


  
“Are you sick, young man?” asked Miss Dutton.


  
“Shut up, everybody,” the captain roared. “What’s this nonsense all about?”


  
“Listen, Skipper,” the purser said eagerly. “The universe is infinite but bounded, isn’t it? Like those reels of Eddie’s? There’s only a limited amount of film there, but he can keep playing it forever: one end’s spliced to the other. OK. We’ve warped the universe down to size: let’s keep right on going on the course we entered sub-space in. Let’s go right on spang around the universe.”


  
“It’ll work,” Sparks shouted. “As


  
The soon as the readings from the receptor match the first ones we got, we’ll know we’re home. We can rig a relay on the comparison unit to throw us out of overdrive right there.”


  
The captain sat down. “Anybody want a drink?” he asked.


  
“Certainly not!” snapped Miss Dutton, waving her umbrella at them. “I had never expected such depravity on a ship of this company or of any company. Drinking! Drinking on a space ship! It’s unheard of!”


  
And two decks down and three bulkheads over, Eddie breathed a vast sigh of content. Killer Mike wiped the blood from his knife. The world had been saved again. Adventure!


  
“Yes ma’am. No ma’am,” said the purser.


  
The End



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
The Shoemaker of Lan

  
What business has a humble shoemaker meddling in rebellion, intrigue or battle? None at all, as the unambitious, unheroic, and very unhappy Tark the Shoemaker knew full well. But try as he would to explain this, his friends and enemies alike insisted that he was Tark the Liberator, returned at last to drive the Mauaii from Lan.


  
TARK the Shoemaker sat happily at his workbench, tapping away at the loose sole of a sandal. The easy work pleased him, calling as it did for no great skill or exertion. He liked to sit crosslegged in his little shop, watching the world go by outside: as long as it passed by him he was happy. Tark—we must admit it—was neither brave nor strong, for both bravery and strength had nearly been bred out of his people in the generations of Mauaii rule. Unconcerned, Tark tapped and hummed and watched the dust rise in the streets as the day grew older. “Shoemaker!,” Tark looked up, startled from his peaceful dreams. Bulking large in the doorway of his shop, cutting half the sunlight out of the day, stood Mauaii officer.


  
Flat on his face went Tark.


  
“Shoemaker! My boots!”


  
Tark leaped up, his heart thumping, and scurried to the pile of finished work in the back of his small shop. He took down a pair of black military boots and, wiping the dust from them against his shabby shirt, presented them to the officer.



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  




OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
“A poor job,” the soldier said. “But good enough for this stinking planet.


  
How much?”


  
Tark had no wish to be kicked with the boots he had just repaired. “Please,” he said, feeling his heart furiously inside his frightened chest. “I beg you to accept my work as a gift.”


  
The officer turned without speaking and marched from the shop.


  
Tark sat down at his workbench again. His happy mood was gone, his day ruined. Tark lived in constant fear that the Mauaii would someday find out who he was, or rather, who his great-grandfather had been. He himself was nothing, but his ancestor . . . it was safer not even to think about such things; so he sat tapping, tapping, tapping small tacks into the delicate soles of a cafe-dancer’s slippers while the sunlight poured down onto the steaming heat of the dusty cobblestones outside. He worked swiftly, speeding up in order to keep his mind so busy that no squirming fear could creep into it, for Tark knew that this day was the seventy-fifth anniversary of the liberation of his planet from the first Mauaii dynasty, and the knowledge lay like an accusing terror in the back of his mind.


  
His efforts to dull his mind only keyed it up, and so he heard the shouts of the mob long before anybody else in any of the small cluttered shops along the street.


  
Seventy five years ago his greatgrandfather, Tark the Liberator, had smashed the harsh rule of the Mauaii and driven them back to their own world, driven them fleeing and tumbling over each other in their terror to reach their space ships; and the memory of that defeat still embittered the Mauaii and intensified their cruelty to their reconquered subjects. Cruel enough they were normally, but the humiliation of their old defeat drove them to brutal excesses toward the people of Lan.


  
And now Tark the Shoemaker, the only living descendant of the great Liberator, shuddered in the warm air of his shop as the sounds of the mob grew louder. It was what he had feared all his life Terrified, he bent over his work, trying to drown out the oncoming shouts with the tap of his little hammer. His heart thumped louder than ever his hammer did, but the shouting grew in his ears.


  
“Tark! Tark! Return to your people! Tark! Lead us!”


  
The shouting grew to a roar as the mob turned the corner into the narrow street on which his shop stood. In front of it, retreating slowly, moved three Mauaii soldiers, walking sullenly backwards, facing the mob, drawn swords threatening any who moved forward too fast. One of them was the officer whose boots Tark had repaired, and the shoemaker gasped in fright as he saw the thin trickle of blood flowing scarlet down the officer’s cheek. Mauaii blood! Tark knew what would come of this: to avenge the slightest wound the Mauaii would execute the leaders among the people of Lan. Even an obscure shoemaker might well tremble when he thought of the vengeance which might be taken if the mob resorted to more violence.


  
“Tark! Tark! Return!”


  
And he would no longer be an obscure shoemaker, not after today. The mob called for Tark the Liberator, but as his only living descendant, Tark the Shoemaker would have to stand in his place. Even as he shrank frightened toward the back of his shop, he was able to appreciate the irony of it. It was the belief of his people that a great man’s soul could enter the body of a direct descendant at seventy five year intervals: only Tark, of all the Lanaii, knew—and who would know better—that this belief was false.


  
He looked down at his skinny arm. Even if the inconceivable transmitigration took place, what could the great Liberator do with such a weak body? He had seen the tremendous statue in the main square of the city, and he knew that his great-grandfather had been a huge, iron-muscled warrior. The Mauaii let the statue stand as a mocking symbol of what the Lanaii had lost, but as a child Tark used to go and look for hours at it, hoping desperately to grow into such a man; he knew now how vain those hopes had been.


  
The soldiers backed slowly past the open front of his shop, and the first of the mob poured into the doorway. “Tark!” Cheering, they pulled him into the street. “Tark the Liberator!” Panic-stricken, he took a last look back at his shop. It was being looted already. He would never see it again. Even if he escaped from the hero-worshiping people, the Mauaii would seize him. Hurried along willy-nilly in the front ranks of the mob, he felt the officer’s eyes on him, and he tried to shrink back into the safety of the crowd.


  
“Shoemaker, I’ll know you,” the officer promised grimly.


  
“It isn’t . . . I don’t . . .” He broke off in terror. How could he ever explain? Panic suddenly drowned him in its agony, and he knew nothing more until he found himself in the public square of the city, standing under the statue of the Liberator, while thousands of his people cheered until the rooftops seemed to sway over his head.


  
A burly, red-headed man hoisted him up on the pedestal and then jumped up with him. “Shut up,” he whispered. “Don’t say anything.” Bewildered, Tark nodded.


  
“Lanaii,” shouted the burly man. “People!”


  
The crowd began to quiet down. Tark looked trembling over the thousands of upturned faces. Couldn’t they see how weak a man he was and how tremendously the statue loomed over him? Couldn’t they tell his great grandfather’s spirit would laugh at such a descendant? But he only saw illusion and false hope in the faces of his people.


  
“People of Lan!” The burly man stood beside Tark, his red hair glisting in the sunlight. “Listen to me now, for it is time to speak. It is time to speak, and it is time to rise. Seventy five years ago—who forgets the date?” He paused as a roar rose from the crowd. “Seventy five years ago the mighty Tark arose—Tark the Liberator!” Another roar. “And he cleaned the world of Lan, cleaned out the last Mauaii and gave us back our planet?’ He waited for silence. “And then he died.” The crowd stood motionless, living through the familiar story. “He died and the Mauaii came back with their whips and swords and cruelty. They came back with pride and oppression. They came back with murder and torture in their hands. They came back and took over our world.” He paused. You could hear the heavy breathing of the crowd. “But they did not know that Tark would come back too. They did not know that when the great cycle of three times twenty five years had been completed our Liberator would return. They did not know that this humble shoemaker, living in obscurity, was the descendant of our greatest hero. They did not know that today Tark, Tark the Shoemaker would become. Tark the Liberator!”


  
The roar that answered him was like nothing Tark had ever heard before. He reeled under the impact of the noise. “Stand up, you damn fool,” the red headed man whispered to him.


  
“And they did not know that this day would mark the end of their tyranny on the planet of Lan.” The orator leaned over the edge of the pedestal and someone handed up a huge sword. The speaker took it and waved it over his head. His voice rose to a tremendous shout. “And they did not know that this sword, the sword of Tark the Liberator, would again drive them to destruction.” He turned to face the shoemaker. “Tark!” he shouted. “The people of Lan return you your sword. Use it as you did before.”


  
He almost dropped it, it was so heavy.


  
“Say something,” snarled the red head.


  
Tark could hardly speak. “Er . . . Thank you,” was all he could get out. “I’ll take good care of it.”


  
A roar of laughter rose from the crowd. “Tark!” they cried. “Tark forever!” And the orator slapped him on the back with a heavy fist. “A hero speaks,” he shouted. “No braggart, no boaster here. He holds the silver sword of liberation. You have heard him. He will guard it with his life. In his hands its jewelled hilt will be red with the blood or tyrants. Tark has returned, Tark the Liberator!”


  
He looked down at the sword: it glittered in the sunlight. Tark had never seen jewels before except when some great Mauaii lady would pass at a distance. But did it have to be so heavy? When he looked up again the red-headed orator was gone, and he stood alone on the pedestal beneath the mighty statue. How could he ever explain that the great Liberator’s soul had not entered his body—that he was as weak and timid as he had ever been? “I . . .” he said, and the crowd cheered! “I . . .” and they cheered again, louder! Looking down, he saw tears of joy on many a face.


  
Over the heads of the crowd something was coming toward him, passed hand over hand. A throne. The war throne of Lan, in which only the war-leader of the Lanaii might sit. And it was coming toward him!


  
Frightened, he looked down at his heavy sword. Would he ever see his own room again,? He had a few slices of meat waiting in the tiny kitchen. It was rare for Tark to be able to afford meat, but he had meant to celebrate the safe passage of this dangerous day with a feast of sorts.


  
The throne was almost up to the pedestal, passed by eager hands. Not even the ruling kings of Lan, in the far off days before they had gracefully given way to the Lanaii democracy, not even they had sat in that throne unless they were leading their armies against the rare enemies of their people. For centuries the world had been at peace, the old dynastic struggles long forgotten before the sudden overwhelming first arrival of the Mauaii. There had been no war even then, for the Mauaii had conquered the whole planet almost instantly: the people of Lan had forgotten the deadly arts of battle. But Tark the Liberator had sat in that throne during his brief life as a leader of the resurgent Lanaii, and now it was coming to him! He shrank back in the shadow of the great statue.


  
The crowd roared its approval as the throne reached him. What could he do? There was no way out except to play the farce to the end. He knew he lacked the necessary courage to destroy his people’s hopes. Sadly he stepped forward and took the throne, clutching the jewelled sword as he did so. The thunder of the crowd’s applause was like an earthquake. “To the governor’s palace!” someone shouted, and instantly the throne was whirled up on twenty shoulders and carried through a path which miraculously opened in the mob.


  
It didn’t seem right, somehow, that the man who was expected to bring freedom back to his people should be carried like a despot through the streets by his fellow men. Freedom should go hand in hand with equality, but the adoration given him seemed almost as great as the humiliating groveling the Mauaii extracted from their underlings. It didn’t seem right: and, of course, it wasn’t right, especially since everyone was looking with worshipful eyes at the wrong man.


  
His carriers were jogging along the main thoroughfare now. with the crowd of thousands running along behind them. Tark could see the golden turrets of the Mauaii governor’s palace ahead of him. In the bobbing throne he had forgotten his fear, as if it had been with him so long he no longer felt it, but a sudden frightened sweat broke out on his forehead as he saw files of Mauaii soldiers running down the long street toward him. The sword in his hands seemed to slip in the clammy grip of his palms, and he clutched it tighter with a hopeless determination. “Let me down,” he shouted, and the bearers lowered the throne to the street. He stood up.


  
The crowd was silent behind him. Despite their faith, he sensed them backing slowly away, but he was afraid to look around. If he saw their fear . . .


  
—I mustn’t faint, he told himself, and I mustn’t run away. He clutched the sword: the bright sky reeled around him. He took a deep shuddering breath. Why had he never fully enjoyed his life? Why had he never known even the glory of simply breathing in the sunlight?


  
—Great grandfather, he thought, if you can, come to me now. If there is any truth to this belief in a great man’s return to the body of his descendant come to me now. Now. I need you.


  
Was the sword lighter in his shaking hands, or was it only his frantic wish that fooled him into thinking it was?


  
He heard a frightened gasp go up from the crowd behind him as the soldiers drew nearer.


  
—Help me now, he prayed, not for myself but for these people who are trusting me to protect them.


  
Was his arm stronger?


  
He lifted the sword and stepped forward. He had never held a sword before—the people of Lan were forbidden to have weapons—but he knew that if Tark the Liberator were entering his body that he would be one of the greatest swordsmen ever to live. Squaring his shoulders, he stepped out briskly toward the oncoming troops.


  
“So, Shoemaker! What sort of cobbler’s tool is that?” The officer whose boots he had repaired—was it only a few hours ago?—was laughing at him. “You are the leader of these people, Shoemaker? You’ll need more than resoling after we’re done with you.” Drawing his sword, the officer approached Tark.


  
—Now! he thought, guide my arm and give me your greatness. Now or never. Tark leaped forward and tried to swing the heavy sword at the officer’s head.


  
The next thing he knew he was lying in the gutter and the soldiers were running after the screaming crowd. He grasped frantically for his sword.


  
“Is this what you want, Shoemaker?” The officer was laughing down at him.” I’ve never seen a clumsier attempt in my life.” He held the sword mockingly toward Tark. “Silver! what kind of silly metal is that to make a weapon of? It won’t take an edge, it’s heavy, and it’s weak. Like the minds of your people, hey fool?” He put the point of the sword on Tark’s throat.


  
Abject misery flowed through the shoemaker’s mind. If he had only had the courage to deny the redheaded man’s speech he wouldn’t have been here now, waiting for death. If he had only had the sense to know his great grandfather’s spirit was not in him and never would be in him he wouldn’t have led the crowd of his people into the trap the soldiers had laid for them. That, even more than the thought of his own death, filled his eyes with blurred tears.


  
“You needn’t weep,” the officer, said. “A heroic shoemaker like you deserves a heroic death.” He took the sword away. “Tomorrow . . . in the arena. Let’s go, Shoemaker. Get up out of the gutter. Tomorrow you’ll pay well for this scratch on my forehead. Let’s go, hero. Move!”


  
And so Tark the Shoemaker was kicked with his own boots, after all.


  
“It didn’t work,” the girl said. “I told you it wouldn’t work.”


  
“Listen,” said the red-headed man, “it would have worked if the poor fool had any guts at all. How was I to know he’d let them capture him so easily? If he’d put up even the slightest fight they would have killed him and everything would have been all right.”


  
“You’re an idiot, Rogar,” the girl snapped. “Now he’s going to be slaughtered in the arena tomorrow. Everyone will see what he is: a coward!” She spat out the word in disgust. “What help is that to us?”


  
“Leave it to me, Princess. I’ll think of something.”


  
“Just see that he dies properly,” she said.


  
The next day’s sunlight glared down on the arena, shimmering on the blood-stained sand. Men fought and died there, fought and died for the pleasure of the Mauaii rulers. Again and again the air shuddered under the swift whispering passage of arrows as a small group or archers tried to hold off the charge of a larger group of men armed with heavy iron clubs: if once the club-wielding men could close with the archers the battle would be decided in their favor, and they formed and re-formed desperately, trying to close the deadly gap between them, but each time they fell back in disorder. As the last of the men with clubs fell to the bloody sand, a blast of trumpets proclaimed the archers triumphant.


  
Pompous in his scarlet-trimmed box, the Mauaii governor made a signal. A gate at the far end of the arena slowly creaked open, and the archers gasped as they saw their death approaching. They had expected freedom as a reward for victory. With a curse, one of them whirled and shot his arrow squarely at the governor, but it bounced back from the screen protecting him: all of the best seats, those in which the Mauaii sat, were covered by this transparent screen. Only the people of Lan, many of whom had been forced to attend the bloody rites, sat in seats unprotected from stray missies.


  
Now the Lanaii sat in wretched silence as they watched their countrymen die under the fangs of the wild beasts that had been set upon them. No archer, no matter how powerful, could stop one of these savage animals which had been brought from the Mauaiian home planet of Ter; and the Lanaii archers, like the Lanaii club-wielders, were only ordinary citizens whom the Mauaii had picked up and given a week’s training before sending them to fight and die in the arena.


  
When the arena was at last cleared, the trumpets blew again. High and shrill they blew their message to the waiting Tark as he sat sorrowfully in his dungeon under the stands. He knew he was about to die, and he knew he would die poorly, for he had never known such fright and misery in his life. All night he had prayed for bravery, but it had not come to him.


  
He shuddered as the clanking iron door of his cell swung open. “Let’s go, there,” a guard ordered. “Do I have to pick you up and carry you?” Tark climbed wearily to his feet. “I hear you’re the big hero around here,” the guard said.


  
“Not me,” said Tark. “Not me.”


  
“Not you? You wouldn’t be trying to fool a poor soldier, now, would you?” He jabbed Tark lightly with the point of his spear and Tark scurried ahead of him. “A girl in a cafe last night offered me ten thousand shojars if I’d help you get away.”


  
Tark’s heart leaped inside him: for a minute he couldn’t speak, and the noise of the crowd outside was a great buzzing in his ears. “Escape?” He threw his hands out to the soldier. “You’re going to let me go?” Life had never been so dear to him.


  
The soldier guffawed. “Hero,” he said, “do you think all the money on this lousy planet could buy a Mauaii soldier? And besides, I never trust a woman. How did I know I wouldn’t get paid with a knife in the throat? On your way, now. Let’s go,” He shoved Tark along the dark hallway toward the blaze of sunlight coming in through the entrance.


  
Hope frustrated is worse than no hope at all. Sick at heart, Tark walked toward the arena. What tortures were waiting for him there?


  
Had it only been one day since he sat in the peaceful obscurity of his cobbler’s shop? He groaned inwardly.


  
“What’s going to happen to me?” he whispered hopelessly.


  
“You’re not much of a hero after all, are you shoemaker?” a loud voice said. Clinking in full armor, the officer who had captured him came up. “I’ll take over the prisoner,” he said, and the soldier saluted and left. “I’ll tell you what’s going to happen,” the officer sneered. “We’re going to march out there together, and the herald is going to give you a choice of deaths: you can die the easy death by poison; or you can die on my sword’s point, and I tell you, Shoemaker, I’m going to chop you into a quivering wreck before I let you die.” He slapped Tark heavily on the back. “I don’t like your face, Shoemaker.”


  
The trumpets blew again. Tark walked toward the bright doorway almost with relief. Having spent the night trembling in fear of being tortured, the knowledge that he could choose an easy death made him feel a little better.


  
“Wait!” the officer shouted as they reached the doorway. “Am I supposed to slaughter this animal without refreshment?”


  
One of the arena servants, a Lanaian girl, rushed over with a goblet of wine. As the officer drank it, she stood there, waiting to carry the goblet away; and, to Tark’s amazement, made a swift face at him. He shook his head in bewilderment. Swiftly she gestured toward the officer and closed both eyes tightly for a brief instant.


  
Crazy, Tark decided.


  
The sight of the wine reminded him that he hadn’t been fed since his capture. Now he would never eat that meat he had waiting for him home. His landlady’s fat husband would probably get it.


  
Instead of handing the goblet back to the serving girl, the officer smashed it against the side of the passageway. “All right,” he said, “Let’s go. This armor is fine in battle, but it’s too heavy to stand around in. Come on, Shoemaker, or do you need another kick?”


  
As they stepped together into the arena, Tark felt the serving girl squeeze his arm briefly in encouragement.


  
—But why should it be me? he thought. I don’t want to die. Why me? I have nothing against the Mauaii. I’d do anything . . . anything . . .


  
Anguished, he heard the roar of the crowd as the bright sunlight struck him.


  
“So you failed, Rogar.”


  
“Princess, I tried everything. I had men ready to poison his food but the Mauaii didn’t bother to feed him. I sent a man to stab him in his cell but the fellow couldn’t even get to the door.”


  
“I trust you punished him properly?”


  
“The man is dead, Princess.”


  
“I wish Tark were dead in his place.”


  
“He will be.”


  
She rose angrily from her chair. “But he’ll die like a coward. What good did it do us to set all yesterday’s uprising afoot? We were going to use Tark’s death as a rallying point, a propaganda weapon. Now what can we do?”


  
“We can wait, Princess. Tark is nothing more than a pawn.” He paced up and down the room. “We can set a rumor going that he was not really the Liberator’s descendant. We can say that he was an imposter, a fake The people will believe anything if you tell them often enough.”


  
“Roger,” she said, “I’ll give you one more chance. Somehow we must rouse the people and keep them roused. As for this Tark business, we’ll consider it a temporary failure, an unimportant setback in our plans.”


  
“Very well.” He glared at her as she left. Some day she’d learn who really held the power.


  
He walked slowly forward, feeling the sunlight warm on his back. In the best seats the Mauaii were laughing scornfully at this shabby little hero of the people of Lan, but Tark’s own people sat silently as they saw their dreams of liberation about to die.


  
Suddenly flowers fell at his feet, flowers thrown from the crowd. He stooped and picked one up. It lay delicately in his hand, the soft yellow petals surrounding the crimson center. It was the barumpyati, the flower traditionally reserved to deck the grave of the heroic dead. Tark raised his eyes to the crowd: they still had faith in him. They longed so desperately for freedom that they were unable to see clearly what he was—a poor shoemaker and nothing else. Self-pity poured over him: this delusion of his people was going to cause his death.


  
Death! He had not realized until now the full meaning of what was going to happen to him. Terrified, he raised his eyes to the golden sun overhead. A few birds wheeled across the empty sky. He shuddered.


  
Another high blast of the trumpets. Silence fell across the crowd. Tark and the officer stood in front of the governor’s box.


  
In full ceremonial costume, a herald marched into the center of the arena.


  
“Now for punishment,” he shouted according to the old formula of the Mauaii. “Now for punishment comes one Tark, a shoemaker of the people of Lan. He confesses his guilt and begs mercy.”


  
Tark looked around, surprised. He would have confessed anything they had asked him to, but nobody had spoken to him between the time he had been flung into his dungeon and the time the soldier had come to bring him to the arena. A sudden hope flared in his chest.


  
“Now to give punishment comes the noble warrior, Sopus, officer in the armies of Ter. Blood has been drawn. How say you, Sopus, do you grant mercy?”


  
The officer stepped forward. “Mercy? I grant him death.”


  
The golden light still poured down, but it seemed to Tark that a cloud had moved over the sun, chilling him to the marrow of his bones.


  
The governor leaned forward in his seat. “Shoemaker,” he said, “the Mauaii are a merciful people. We grant you the choice of deaths. Which will it be? Death by poison, painless and swift, or death by the sword, which will come as it may.”


  
It’ll come through the belly,” the officer whispered. “You’d better choose the coward’s death.”


  
The herald approached Tark and held out a tiny bottle. Fascinated, he gazed at the colorless liquid. There it was. The end. His heart beat as if it would burst from his chest. Couldn’t they hear it? He was unable to speak, unable to open his dry lips. The sun was hot again, burning down into his skull through his thin sandy colored hair. He closed his eyes.


  
“He choses death by the sword,” the herald cried.


  
“No,” said Tark. “Wait . . . I . . .” But his protests were drowned by the great cheer which rose from the Lanaii in the stands.


  
“You’re a fool, Shoemaker,” whispered the officer, “but I didn’t think you had the guts to stand up and fight me.”


  
The trumpets burst into melody. Tark stood appalled: he had thrown away his chance for an easy death. Was it fear that had sealed his mouth? Certainly panic had had much to do with it, but hadn’t there been a touch of . . . of what? . . . of fighting spirit? Again and again the trumpets blew the call to combat, deafening poor Tark with their noise.—Nonsense, he thought, be honest: it was nothing but fear that kept you from the poison.


  
Sopus, the officer whom he was to fight, had turned and marched to the other side of the arena, where a servant handed him his heavy battle helmet and huge shield. Now he was armored in thick metal from head to knees.


  
Someone touched Tark on the shoulder. He whirled around with a small cry of panic. The girl, the arena servant who had made faces at him in the passageway, handed him the useless silver sword and a great shield. The herald stood beside her.


  
“The weapons of Lan,” he shouted. “A shield to hide behind, a sword to glitter in futility, and armor—” he flicked disdainfully at Tark’s shirt—” armor of dirty cloth. Timid, weak and unreliable: here is the hero of the Lanaii!” A roar of laughter went up from the Mauaii.


  
The girl winked at him. Winked! Even at this dreadful moment he found time to pity her feeble mind.


  
The shield was not designed as a combat weapon: even if it had been, Tark wouldn’t have known how to handle it. Clumsily he held it in front of him, clutching at the hilt of the sword with his other hand. He really needed both hands to manage the sword, but he clung frantically to the illusion of safety the shield gave him. It was much more in his nature to defend himself by hiding or by flight than by taking the offensive.


  
Of course he had no hope of winning against a trained soldier, even if his weapons had been as good, and even if he had worn the armor the officer was wearing. As it was, he realized, he had no chance at all.


  
And then it struck him that the Mauaii might be afraid of him!


  
Sending a fully armored warrior against a weak shoemaker dressed in his ordinary clothing, sending a professional soldier with his battle-tested weapons against a civilian armed only with weak ceremonial sword and shield—was this the vaunted Mauaii heroism? It looked as if they had heard of the Lanaii belief that the Liberator’s mighty spirit had entered his body. It looked as if everybody on the two planets believed he was a great warrior. The Mauaii, at any rate, were taking no chances. He smiled weakly at the irony of it as he looked up for one last sight of the golden sun.


  
The governor made a signal and the trumpets blasted.


  
Swaggering in his heavy armor, the officer started across the arena toward Tark.


  
“Has he been killed yet?”


  
“The messenger will bring us word as soon as he’s dead, Princess. I thought we agreed to forget about him. He’s nothing to us now.”


  
She strode across the floor. “I know,” she said, “but . . .”


  
Roger grabbed her by the wrist. “But what?”


  
“I still . . . Suppose there’s something in it?”


  
“By all the gods! Something in what?”


  
Angrily she shook herself free. “Something in this belief that the Liberator’s spirit can enter his body.”


  
Flopping down on the chair she had left, Rogar shouted with laughter.


  
“You forget yourself,” she cried angrily. “I am princess of the people of Lan!”


  
He laughed louder. “And you’re just as superstitious as the oldest fishwoman in the marketplace. You’d better read those reports again. Your great-grandfather wouldn’t be pleased. Gods, Princess, don’t you know he started that myth himself to cover up the fact that it was he who killed the Liberator? Old Tark was intending to restore democracy here on Lan, and we couldn’t have that, now, could we? Where would that leave us? Don’t fall for our own propaganda, Princess. It will take more than an impressionable woman to rule this world once we force the Mauaii out: it will take a hand of steel and a mind of iron. You can afford no weaknesses.”


  
“All the same,” she said. “I’m sorry we ever stirred this business up. I’ll be glad when he’s dead.”


  
The cold sweat of fear dripped from his brow and ran into his eyes. His breath came and went quickly through his open mouth. He stood rooted to the spot as Sopus, moving slower as he neared Tark, approached. Uncontrollably his knees began to tremble. He took a step backwards and the shield, rapping against his leg, tilted away from his body.


  
He tried to bring it back with his arm, but the clumsy grip let it tilt further away, uncovering his chest. Panic stricken, he saw his enemy drawing back his sword. The whole shield was slipping from his sweaty handhold, sliding to the left as it did so, falling to the ground. Forgetting everything else in his fright, he dropped the sword and grabbed at the shield with both hands, falling to his knee as he did so in an effort to keep behind it.


  
Sopus’ sword whistled by over his head. He didn’t even see it go past.


  
His shield flopped onto the bloody sand and he scrabbled desperately for it, whimpering with fear. Nothing else mattered. Then he heard the mingled roar of the crowd and fell back just in time to miss being cut in half. He scrambled to his feet, defenseless now with neither sword nor shield.


  
Sopus slowly approached, a deadly figure in his heavy armor. A few minutes ago terror had made Tark unable to move, but now it sent his feet dancing in an uncontrolled jig of pure agony; he had tapped a vast reservoir of energy as his body made a last frantic effort to escape death. He rushed in desperation around the soldier, trying to reach his sword and shield, but Sopus, though he seemed to move with ponderous slowness. held him away from them. Tark knew that this burst of energy would soon pass, leaving him an easy mark for the officer’s glittering sword. His horror of death, though it gained him this new strength, robbed him of the coordination needed to make use of it, and his flying feet tripped over nothing. Down he went. His scream was drowned in the roar of the crowd. In a last frantic effort as he lay on the ground, he flung a handful of sand upward as Sopus bent over him for the death blow.


  
He was still alive! He was still alive! Even as he rolled away he found time to wonder at it.


  
The soldier had dropped his shield and was digging vainly into his helmet with the mailed glove of his left hand. The sand had gone into his eyes. Tark, moving with the nimbleness of despair, jumped behind him and gave him a shove: he stepped forward and tripped over his shield, falling with a rattle of armor to the ground.


  
Tark jumped at him and grabbed his sword, but Sopus grimly hung onto it. The two men wrestled for the sword for an instant, and Tark knew he was no match in strength for the soldier. His own weapon was lying on the sand twenty feet away, but if he tried to get it, his enemy would be able to get to his feet again. Sopus shoved him rolling away, and Tark’s flailing hand fell on the arrow that had been shot at the governor. He grabbed it and leaped back at the blinded warrior, poking the point of the arrow at the opening in the armor at the throat where the helmet met the chestpiece.


  
He held the arrow firmly in both hands, but as he was about to jab it into Sopus’ windpipe he was astonished to hear the soldier scream in terror.


  
“I give up!” He heard it even over the roar of the crowd. “Shoemaker! Mercy!”


  
Slowly Tark got to his feet. He couldn’t kill the man: he couldn’t kill anyone. He was too familiar with the agony of seeing death’s inexorable approach; he knew too well how sweet life could be.


  
Cursing himself for a coward, he stood on the bloody sand as the astonished roar of the crowd swirled about him. Why couldn’t he be like his great-grandfather? Why couldn’t he be a hero like the mighty Liberator whose name he bore, a hero who could face death joyfully and deal it out with a laugh? But he knew that he was no hero, only an ordinary man.


  
The trumpets blew again and silence fell over the vast audience in the stands. The governor leaned forward in his chair. “Shoemaker,” he said, “you have been visited by the god of luck this day. Your fighting was marred by low and unfair tactics, tactics which are not in accordance with the rules of battle, but we could expect no other behavior from a Lanian. You will not be given another chance; you have forfeited all rights to be treated with decency. Tomorrow morning you will be returned to the arena and burned alive.” He stilled the rising murmer of the crowd with a gesture of his hand. “As for you, Sopus, former officer of the armies of Ter, after your disgrace . . .” He broke off.


  
The soldier, who had been sitting up as if dazed, leaning on one hand, crumpled forward to the ground. Tark looked down at him in amazement: Sopus was unconscious.


  
Night: the two tiny moons of Lan stood high in the star-specked sky over the sleeping city. Their dim light shone down on the empty streets where here and there a Mauaii sentry walked his lonely rounds. An occasional burst of revelry floated out on the night air from behind the closely shuttered windows and barred doors in the poorer sections of the city where the Lanaii were allowed to live: the people of Lan were jubilant tonight. They would soon be free of their hated overlords. Had not Tark the Liberator returned and won a great victory in the arena? The story, told and retold a thousand times that night, lost nothing in the telling. In the people’s minds rose a single toast: Long life to Tark!


  
But in one of the houses—


  
“Death to Tark! Princess, this has gone too far. We were wrong to start it. He must be killed tonight. Any display of his real nature now would set our cause back for years, perhaps destroy it forever. The people’s reaction when they found they had been fooled . . . I don’t even want to think about it. We had amazing luck this afternoon when he won that fight in the arena.”


  
“All right, Rogar. Go and kill him yourself. Take as many of our supporters as you need.”


  
He bowed, “Now you speak like the true ruler of the people of Lan. He will be dead before the sun rises.”


  
And in the governor’s palace—


  
“Death to Tark!” The governor pounded his fist on the table. “These idiotic Lanaii look on him as some kind of hero. Seems he’s descended from that statue in the public square.”


  
“The statue, Lord Governor?”


  
“Don’t be a fool. He’s supposed to be some sort of reincarnation of the man that statue represents. The people look on him as their hero. Hero! A skinny weakling.” He laughed. “And he wasn’t even a good shoemaker.”


  
Obsequiously, his staff laughed with him.


  
“But I want him killed tomorrow, and I want you to herd as many Lanaii into the stands as possible. He must die slowly, with torture. You understand? It is important that he die as badly as possible. I want his people to see how feeble a hero they have chosen. I intend to break their spirits once and for all.” He glared around. “And now to the main point of this meeting. Tark himself is unimportant. My secret police have informed me that some of you—don’t look surprised, you know I check on you—that some of you have been heard to say that after today’s combat you could half believe that the spirit of these people’s hero had entered this shoemaker’s body.” He thumped his fist down. No one dared meet his eyes. “Perhaps you have simply been on this stinking planet too long: perhaps you want to be sent home to Ter, eh? No? Nobody wishes to be sent home in disgrace?” He raised his voice to a shout. “All right then I Put this insane native belief out of your minds! You will see tomorrow how this hero dies.”


  
And in the tiny cell underneath the stands of the arena—Tark lay shivering on the stone floor. Hunger, fear and the cold kept him miserably awake. With open eyes he stared into the darkness. He had done nothing, nothing at all to deserve this. It didn’t matter to him who ruled his world: he was content to obey and be silent. And yet tomorrow . . . because of an accident of birth and a foolish superstition they were going to take him out into the sunlight and burn him alive. And after he was dead the sunlight would continue to come down gently on the rolling fields of Lan, and next week, perhaps, some one else would lie trembling and wretched on the damp stone floor of this cell.


  
He came uncontrollably to his feet, grabbing the iron bars with his desperate hands, shouting, screaming. “It’s me!” he yelled over and over hardly knowing what he was doing. “It’s me! Let me go! I never did anything!” He smashed his feet against the base of the door, kicking out frantically as if he wanted to thrust all the force of his body into one panic-stricken last effort to save his life.


  
Down the corridor a door swung open, blinding him for an instant with the light that poured out from the room behind it. “Shut up there, prisoner. You won’t be so eager to get out tomorrow when we come to get you.” A soldier stepped into into the passageway. Behind him Tark could see three more guards sitting around a table.


  
He fell back from the bars, panting in deep breaths as he tried to regain control of himself. It wasn’t the soldier who had brought him out of his terror: it was the sight of the girl who had made faces at him. She was serving wine to the guards, and in some corner of his mind Tark was ashamed of showing her has anguished fear of death. Poor crazy girl, she was in some measure a friendly face. The darkness returned ten-fold as the soldier stepped back and slammed the door behind him. Tark shut his eyes and rested his heated forehead against the cool bars, hating himself for a coward. What would the great Liberator have done in such circumstances? He would have lured the soldier into reach and choked the life out of him. He would have wrenched the bars from his cell by brute strength. He would have dug through the wall. He would have done any of a thousand things. He would have killed Sopus when he had a chance. He would never have been captured in the first place. Tark dug his nails into the palms of his hands: he mustn’t lose control of himself again.


  
Slowly he sank to the cold floor of the cell. How much longer did he have to live? Light glowed in the passageway as the door to the soldiers’ guardroom swung open. He clenched his eyes shut bitterly as tight as he could. Was it time?


  
—Help me, he prayed hopelessly, help me, great grandfather. If you can’t give me your spirit and your strength, at least give me your courage to die.


  
But he felt a terrible shudder of fear as the door of his cell squealed open.


  
“Tark! Quickly! Your life is in danger.”


  
Opening his eyes in amazement, he jumped to his feet. For a moment he could only wonder that someone would bother to give him such useless information, then his fear-frozen brain began to work again. It wasn’t a soldier: it was the crazy girl, the arena servant. “Hurry,” she said. “They’ll be coming to in a few minutes.”


  
“What? Who? I . . .”


  
Impatiently, she grabbed him by the arm and yanked him from the cell. “This way. Follow me.”


  
For an instant he couldn’t believe his good fortune. His mind, used to continual disappointment, was unable to grasp the fact that he had a chance for life. Instead of renewed hope, he felt only concern for the girl who was leading him down the corridor. Even if she was insane could she unlock his cell door without being punished?


  
“Wait,” he said. “I . . .”


  
She turned on him with a face contorted in anger. “Shut up,” she hissed. “Just follow me.” She tiptoed into the guard room, beckoning him to follow.


  
“But the soldiers—” he whispered.


  
They were all asleep, sitting stolidly in their chairs. Amazed, he held his breath as he brushed past them and through the far door.


  
The first faint grey light of dawn lay like a dust powdered on the black velvet night. He could see the girl’s dim figure as she flitted ahead of him through the street. Whirling suddenly, she grabbed his arm and pulled him into a doorway. To his amazement, she kissed him. For the first time his new life began to look as if it might be bearable after all.


  
When she let go he grabbed her and started to kiss her again, but she slapped him so hard he lost his balance in the narrow doorway and fell out into the street.


  
“Mind your manners,” she said. “Come on.”


  
Poor girl, he had forgotten she was crazy.


  
The twelve men stood outside the arena. Their leader, a burly redheaded man, drew his sword from its scabbard at his side and used the tip of it to draw a map on the ground.


  
“Listen,” he said. “This is where we are now. Just inside that door there’s the guardroom where the soldiers are. There should be four of them and perhaps an arena servant or two. Got that? You eight men are going to take care of the soldiers and anybody else in there. Silently, remember. You three will come with me through the inside door into the passageway under the stands. There’s a man in one of the cells. He’s a little skinny looking fellow, but don’t take any chances with him. Kill him right away. All right?”


  
“All right, Rogar.”


  
“No blunders now. The princess wants this man dead.”


  
“All right, Rogar.”


  
“And so do I, which is more important. Let’s go.”


  
They burst through the door, and the soldiers, waking from their drugged sleep didn’t even have time to realize they were dying before they were dead. Rogar and his three followers rushed into the passageway. The door to Turk’s cell swung idly open.


  
The red-headed man fell back one step and leaned against the wall. “Maybe the princess was right. Maybe Tark . . .”


  
“What did you say, sir?”


  
“Nothing,’” he yelled in a furious voice. “Spread out and search this place. I didn’t say anything.” His face was pale beneath his flaming hair.


  
The arena was empty.


  
“Rogar,” said one of his men. “Remember when we were coming here, remember that pair of lovers in the doorway? I bet . . .”


  
“By all the gods!” He slammed his huge fist against the door. “Of course. But who was the woman?” He strode back and forth across the littered guardroom. “All right,” he said finally. “You men might as well go home: I won’t need you any more for today.” He flung a bag of coins to them. “You will be better repaid when the princess comes to her rightful throne.”


  
The men chuckled. They knew who would rule Lan when that happened. Rogar’s swordsmen would have rewarding work to do.


  
“It’s morning, Lord Governor.”


  
“I’m awake, Phindus. I was thinking.”


  
“Pleasant thoughts, I trust, Lord Governor.”


  
“This is the day we burn what’s-his-name. That hero of your people. Tark! That’s him! If you Lanaii had to pick a hero, why did you pick such a puny one?” The governor laughed. “He didn’t even have the guts to kill that fool Sopus when he had him down.”


  
“Yes, sir. Your bath is drawn.”


  
“Good. Did any messages come while I was asleep?”


  
The servant carefully kept the jubilation from his face and voice. “Only one, Lord Governor. The prisoner in the arena killed his four guards last night and escaped. Is the water hot enough for you, sir?”


  
“Tark escaped? Escaped? Tark?” Water splashed.


  
“Yes, Lord Governor. Tark the Liberator escaped. He has come back to kick you and all your people off our planet. Goodbye, sir.” He carefully held the governor’s head under water until the bubbles stopped coming up. Then he rolled down his sleeves and walked with slow dignity from the palace.


  
And gradually the rumor spread.


  
“Tark killed a dozen soldiers and escaped from the arena.”


  
“Tark tore the iron bars from his cell door and killed a platoon of Mauaii troops.”


  
“Did you hear what Tark did? He killed every soldier in the arena with his bare hands.”


  
“And then he went and killed the governor.”


  
“Tark is driving the Mauaii from Lan!”


  
“Tark the Liberator!”


  
“Please,” whined Tark, “can’t you go a little slower? My feet hurt.” He had never walked so far or so fast in his life. The city stretched out across the plains far below them. “Are you still mad because I told you I thought you were crazy?”


  
The girl glared back at him.


  
“I couldn’t help it,” he said. “I was scared and I wasn’t thinking clearly. When I saw you making faces at me . . . Aggrieved, he burst out with a whining shout: “What else could I think? You don’t know how it feels to be taken out to die!” He scurried along the trail after her. “And I’m sorry I kissed you. I thought . . .”


  
She turned and faced him. “What did you think?”


  
He stepped back a pace, suddenly frightened by the vehemence with which she spoke. “I don’t know what I thought. I guess . . . I guess I didn’t think of anything . . . It was just that I realized I was going to die and that you were kissing me and . . . it was pleasant, that’s all.” He scraped at the dusty trail with his foot. “I didn’t know you were just trying to keep those people from paying attention to me. I just thought how I liked it. I hardly ever get to kiss a pretty girl . . . Only my landlady when I can’t pay the rent on time.” He kicked a pebble. “She’s fat.”


  
To his surprise the girl was smiling.


  
“Come on,” she said. “We’ve got to get to the cave by night. There’s a lot you have to learn.”


  
“About what?”


  
“About everything. About the political situation here on Lan. About your great grandfather. About yourself.” She turned and started up the trail again. “About women,” she said, but he didn’t hear her.


  
He hurried to keep up with her. “I don’t even know your name,” he said.


  
“You don’t need to know it,” she shouted back over her shoulder. “You didn’t wonder about it when you thought I was crazy.”


  
“I guess I shouldn’t have told you about that,” said Tark, “but I have different thoughts about you now. I’d like to know who I’m thinking about when I think about you.” He smiled at her. “And I can’t think of anything else.”


  
“You’re learning fast,” she said.


  
“What?”


  
“Never mind. My name is Niamala.”


  
“I’m pleased to meet you.”


  
“I should think you would be. You’d be three quarters fried right now if you hadn’t.”


  
“Don’t think I’m not grateful. That’s just something people say when they’re introduced.”


  
She groaned softly. “Are you always so conventional?”


  
“I’m a shoemaker,” he said.


  
“Not any more, you aren’t. You’re Tark the Liberator now.”


  
He had forgotten about that. “Do I have to be? Can’t I just wait where ever it is we’re going until this nonsense all blows over?”


  
Furious, the good mood of the past few minutes forgotten, she whirled around toward him. “Nonsense? What nonsense? Do you still think the Mauaii are fit to rule this planet? Do you think any government that doesn’t come from the wishes of the people can be a just one? And do you think any man can stand by and let tyranny walk the same streets he lives on? Open your eyes! Didn’t you ever hear that sweet word, democracy?”


  
He was embarassed by her outburst. It didn’t matter to Tark who ruled Lan as long as he was let alone in safe obscurity. More than anything else, he wanted to return to his old life.


  
She turned forward again and began to walk swiftly away, leaving him to follow her as best he could. “I’m not a politican,” he muttered sullenly to himself, “And I’m not a hero and I’m not a fool.” He glared angrily at the back of her head.


  
It would have been different if he had really been taken over by his great-grandfather’s spirit, but he knew that nobody on Lan could believe that any more, not after seeing his terror in the arena yesterday, not after seeing how he had dropped his weapons from sheer clumsiness and fright. He had done everything wrong: he just wasn’t going to try any more. He was ready to give up.


  
“I tell you, I was there. T saw it. They offered him the choice of an easy death or a hard death, and he simply stood there, too proud to speak. And then when the herald brought him the poison he refused to even look at it. I’ve never seen such dignity in the face of death.”


  
“He fought his way through the palace guards and killed the governor.”


  
“Fought his way? The guards ran in terror when they saw him coming.”


  
“Nobody knows where he is now.”


  
“He’s gathering an army. He’s preparing a revolution.”


  
“We’ll be free again.”


  
“Look! Is that a Mauaii soldier coming toward us?”


  
“Yes. A corporal. Look at him scowl.”


  
“Lend me your knife. Thank you.”


  
“Good morning, corporal.”


  
“Should we bury him or just leave the body here in the street?”


  
“Princess, I don’t know how he did it. When we got there the soldiers were sitting around their table, sound asleep. Their wine had been drugged. Tark was gone from his cell.”


  
“All right, Rogar. This means simply that we have to change our estimate of Tark. He’s no longer a mere pawn in our plans.” She drummed her fingers idly on the arm of her chair.


  
“The things he’s done in the last two days . . . well, you might as well admit that a shoemaker couldn’t have done them.” She held up one hand. “Let me finish, Rogar. I think this Tark can be as useful to us as his great grandfather was: I think he may be able to drive the Mauaii from Lan. Rogar, despite your fine scorn for my female superstition, I feel that there may be something to this belief that the spirit of the Liberator has taken over this man’s body.”


  
“I live only to carry out your orders, Princess.” He bowed so low she could not see the twisted smile on his face. “Perhaps we have greviously understimated this man by trying to use him merely as a symbol, someone we could have killed in order to profit by his death. Perhaps the Liberator has returned. Perhaps. But remember this. Princess. The Liberator drove the Mauaii from Lan, but he did not intend to restore your dynasty to the throne. No—he was about to call for a return to democracy. There are a number of sealed boxes of papers in the archive-room, Princess; I recommend you look through them some time. I haven’t read them all myself, but I do know this—your own great-grandfather had the first Tark killed in this very house. The bones are buried under the archive room?”


  
“How was he killed, Rogar? I thought he was invincible.”


  
“I don’t know. There’s a lot about those days of seventy five years ago that I don’t understand. But this Tark who’s alive today: we must find him. That’s of first importance. If it turns out that he will fight for the return of the dynasty to the throne, all well and good. But if he won’t swear his allegiance to you, Princess . . .” He drew his knife. “We have room for more bones in that grave.”


  
“Rogar,” she said, “I believe you like to kill.”


  
He smiled. “In your service, Princess.”


  
“All right,” she said. “It may be necessary to kill this Tark. In any event, it is necessary to find him and bring him here. Don’t underestimate him again, Rogar. Use every man at your command.”


  
The general looked at the worried group around the table. “It is necessary to find this man and bring him here,” he said. “It seems the late governor underestimated him. I don’t propose to duplicate his mistake: I shall use every man at my command. This Tark is the most important person on Lan. My whole army is ordered to find him and capture him. When we get him here he will be questioned and then executed.”


  
“Your pardon, General,” said one of the civilians, “but why is it necessary to question him? I understand he is a dangerous man, a killer. Wouldn’t it be best to execute him as soon as he is taken? After all, a man who can do what he did . . . I fear this man, General.”


  
“And so do I, my Lord. But the people of Lan say he is their leader. Now, there is this to consider: there is a vast and surprisingly well-organized underground movement here on this planet. Don’t smile—I know them to be dangerous. But the situation isn’t clear even to my secret police; this underground seems to be split into rival groups, though it hardly seems possible. Tark, when we capture him, can clear up this matter for us, and I’m sure he will, when we apply the proper persuasion. It is important that we clean up this underground before they become too bold. Since this Tark murdered the governor this morning over forty of my soldiers have been cut down in the streets?”


  
The civilians looked grave. “Why wasn’t he killed years ago?” one of them asked.


  
“Because the governor didn’t know about him. For years this Tark pretended to be nothing but a shoemaker. Waiting with diabolical cleverness for the time to strike, he sat there in his shop and pretended to be just another weak Lanaian fool. Gentlemen, we must remember that these Lanaii are not the weaklings we have taken them for. Frankly, I consider the situation here on Lan to have grown to alarming proportions, and it all hinges around Tark. There is a belief here on this planet that Tark is the reincarnation of one of their heroes of the past, a certain thug named Tark the Liberator—I hardly need remind you what that means. Seventy five years ago we were forced off this planet by an armed uprising of the people led by this old Tark.” He glared around the table at them. “We must kill this man before we are put into danger again.”


  
Like all Mauaii, he tended to shout when he was frightened. He shouted now. “We can’t expect reinforcements from our home planet of Ter, not until certain . . . conditions . . . there are recitified. I’m not authorized to explain myself more fully at his time. But gentlemen, remember this: we must capture Tark, we must capture him swiftly, we must force his information from him, and we must put him to death.”


  
He waited until the civilians had all filed from the room, and then he sank into his seat. “If we can,” he muttered. Fear of the Liberator still throbbed in a hidden corner of every Mauaii heart, and it began to look as if the belief that the Liberator had returned in this new body might not be so foolish after all. He flipped through the sheaf of morning reports. They told him of ambush and sabotage against the Mauaii rulers of Lan. He began to realize how skilfully Tark had planned for this day. It was only occasional raiding now, but it would soon grow into open revolution unless Tark were captured.


  
“Lieutenant, can I wear full armor on guard duty this evening?”


  
“You know the uniform of the day, soldier. Light armor only?”


  
“Yes, sir, But . . .”


  
“But what?”


  
“Sir, I’m afraid I’ll need full armor. Three of the men in my platoon were killed today?”


  
“Three? I was given only two names on the list.”


  
“The other one was just now, sir.


  
Tark came into the barracks when nobody was looking and strangled the Master-at-Arms. We found his body when we came back from chow.”


  
“Tark!”


  
“Yes, sir. Can I wear full armor?”


  
“All right, soldier. I suppose so.”


  
“Sir?”


  
“What is it?”


  
“Do you think we’ll ever see her again?”


  
“I just can’t go any further,” he whimpered. “Do you realize I haven’t eaten anything in two days?”


  
She ignored him and kept on up the steep path.


  
Tark miserably followed her. Would he ever see his little cobbler’s shop again? The setting sun cast its long shadow across the foothills, and he was able to look back far into the distance and see the city they had left, with the streets radiating from the central square. He was also able to see the huge statue of Tark the Liberator standing in the square, and the sight made him feel even more weak and useless than before. He couldn’t come up to his great grandfather’s standards no matter how hard he tried, so there was no sense in trying any more. He glared at the girl with a feeling close to hatred: he hated every Lanaian right now, everyone who had forced him into this sudden unbelieved and unwanted prominence as a leader of his people. No. He didn’t owe them anything. He didn’t want freedom or glory or anything else except obscurity and a good meal.


  
And in some corner of his mind he told himself that the Mauaii would let him alone if they only knew how he felt.


  
Misery, fear, and self-pity: the seeds of betrayal grew in Tark’s brain.


  
The girl stopped. “Here we are,” she said. Putting a small whistle to her mouth, she blew three times. Etched darkly against the skyline, a man appeared on the ridge opposite them and waved his arm. “All clear,” she said, “come on.” He followed her as she pushed off the path into the thick trees. Down into a gully, up the other side, across a stream, panting up the side of the ridge, Tark went after her.


  
“Phindus,” she cried, as she came up to the man who had waved. “What are you doing here?”


  
“Niamala!”


  
Tark felt a deep and unexpected pang of jealousy as he saw her throw her arms around the man. “I didn’t expect to see you here,” she said, “but I’m glad you are. We’ve got to act fast. Are the others inside?”


  
“We’re all here,” he said. “Come on. Who’s this you brought?”


  
She looked back proudly. “It’s Tark himself.”


  
“Tark!” Phindus went sliding down the hill to where Tark was sullenly standing. “Tark!” He grabbed him by the hand and pumped it up and down wildly. “I heard about how you escaped from the arena last night. Wonderful!” He began to pull him uphill. “I was the governor’s servant, Tark. Tark—I can’t believe it’s you at last! When I heard how you killed the four soldiers guarding you I knew the time had come. I drowned the governor in his own bathtub and came up here.” He laughed delightedly. “We’ve been getting reports from the city all day. “They think you killed him. It’s wonderful, Tark, the Mauaii are getting scared. Now that you’re here we can really begin to work on them. Tark, Tark, the underground has waited seventy five years for this day, waiting for you to come back.”


  
Niamala smiled fondly at him. “Phindus,” she said, “don’t you ever stop talking?”


  
He laughed again. “If you know how I had to keep silent as that governor’s servant you’d realize what a relief it is now to be able to open my mouth as a freeman. And Tark! We’ve got Tark with us!” He was almost dancing with joy as he pushed aside a clump of bushes.


  
“What’s this about killing the guards?” Tark asked. The sight of Phindus’ joy made him angry, and he didn’t know why: he’d never been jealous before. “We didn’t kill any guards.”


  
“We? Through here. Watch out for the thorns.”


  
“Niamala and I. She gave them something in their wine to put them to sleep, but they were all right when we left.”


  
“I saw some of Rogar’s men heading for the arena,” she said. “Tark and I . . . hid from them . . . They must have done it.”


  
Tark was pleased to see her momentary embarrassment: at least he had kissed her, even if he had been slapped. “We pretended to be lovers,” he told Phindus. and he was pleased to see Niamala blush.


  
“Well,” she said angrily, “we all have to make sacrifices if we want to be free.”


  
“Here we are,” said Phindus. “Watch your head.”


  
It was a mere crack in the limestone rocks, one crack among thousands on the mountainside. Just wide enough to admit one man at a time, it was admirably situated for defense. A young man was on guard inside, and Tark was surprised to see the joy in his eyes as he saw them come in. The sentry turned and shouted into the echoing darkness of the vast cavern that opened up behind him.


  
“She’s brought him! Tark’s here!”


  
Tark stepped back in astonishment as the cave lit up: he had never seen electric lights before.


  
“Surprised?” asked Phindus, “One of the Mauaii technicians escaped and set this up for us. It’s just one of the things those people are keeping from us. But now that you’re here that’s going to be changed.”


  
Tark couldn’t bring himself to be friendly to the man. He merely grunted. This constant harping on his importance and usefulness was getting on his nerves. “Do you have something to eat?” he asked. “I’m hungry.”


  
Phindus looked downcast. “Nobody thought of bringing food up here. We can send for some, though, and it’ll be here by morning.” He slapped Tark on the back. “But we’ve got news that’ll make you so happy you won’t want to bother with eating. The people are rising up all over Lan: all they were waiting for was the Liberator’s return. Tark, you’ve got the Mauaii scared.”


  
“I haven’t eaten for two days,” Tark said.


  
The general threw down his napkin. He wasn’t hungry. None of the dignitaries around the table had made more than a pretence of eating. Who could be sure that Tark or one of his men hadn’t sneaked into the kitchen and poisoned the food? Everyone knew how subtle and dangerous he was. Less than an hour ago three Mauaii nobles, on their way to this very banquet, had been cut down in the street by a man dressed to look like a sailor: Tark, no doubt. The man, a huge fellow, had swaggered up to the nobles, rolling from side to side as if he were drunk, had grabbed all three of them, and cut their throats. The fools of the police who had chased him reported that he had taken flight on a ship. This was nonsense, of course: hadn’t Tark, not half an hour later, been seen (this time disguised as a woodchopper) crushing the skull of a Mauaii soldier?


  
They saw Tark behind every curtain, behind every tree, behind every knife. The bitter and halfrepressed memory of their defeat of seventy five years before had driven the Mauaii to excesses of cruelty, and this cruelty led them to fear vengeance. They would fight bravely to save their necks and their domination over the people of Lan, but how could they fight this avenger who struck them down without warning in a hundred different forms—how, for that matter, could they fight the whole planet if the whole people were to rise against them?


  
No, they weren’t hungry.


  
“I can’t eat, Rogar. I just can’t. I’m too worried. Here we are at a crucial moment in history and we can’t find the most important man in it anywhere. If we have Tark on our side we can’t lose. If we find he’s against us and we’re able to kill him, we can blame his death on the Mauaii and again we can’t lose. But without Tark this rebellion will just fizzle out. Rogar, the dynasty can’t wait another seventy-five years for his return. Why can’t you catch him, Rogar? According to the reports I get he’s out in the city someplace.”


  
“The problem is to find him, Princess. He struck first in the governor’s palace when he drowned the governor; then he stabbed a corporal in a street on the other side of town; then he ambushed two soldiers down by the main square; then he killed another soldier in the army barracks . . . you see? He keeps moving. He’s a clever man, Princess. But I have all my men out looking for him. We’ll have him by dawn, I promise you.”


  
“Listen, what say after supper we get some of the boys together and go hunt us up a couple of Mauaii soldiers? We can borrow your wife’s carving knife for the first one, and after that we’ll have a sword.”


  
“I don’t see why not. I’ve always wanted to take a crack at one of those guys. I hear Tark’s been knocking them off all day. I only hope he left some for us.”


  
“Let’s go now. Who wants to eat on a day like this?”


  
Full of self-pity, Tark sat at the head of the conference table and watched the room fill up with people. He had never gone so long without food, and now the nervous reaction from the terror he had undergone, combined with the exhaustion of the day-long climb, made him touchy and irritable. Why were they taking advantage of him? He glared at Phindus and Niamala, who were sitting happily together on the other side of the room. Why couldn’t they simply leave him alone? He saw her smile at Phindjis, and he knew he hated them: he hated them all. And especially he hated her.


  
Poor Tark, he had never been in love before.


  
His sandals had been ruined by the climb, and he had no tools to repair them, but he turned them over and over in his hands, appraising them with an expert eye. This return to his old trade helped calm him somewhat, but nevertheless he jumped slightly when someone beside him stood up and began to speak.


  
“I assume we’re all here. Well, Tark is here too.” A wave of applause burst over him, and he hurried to get his sandals back on his feet.


  
“This is the day we’ve all been waiting for. Tomorrow we strike at the Mauaii, and with Tark on our side, we can’t lose.” He held up his hand to stop the cheering. “Niamala brought him to us, so I’m going to let Niamala speak.”


  
Tark wasn’t impressed. He had been cheered before, and by a lot more people, and what had it got him? Nearly killed, that’s what. He sulked. He was unhappy, hurt, and angry.


  
The girl was on her feet. “As you know,” she said, “I was employed as an arena servant. This was always a useful position, since I was able to overhear all the soldier gossip of the guards, and occasionally help a prisoner, but we never knew how useful it would be. Well! Our first effort to free Tark failed: one of our girls tried to bribe one of the soldiers, but she wasn’t able to. We knew that Tark was to fight Sopus, and we knew that Sopus would be fully armed and protected, while Tark would be given only symbolic weapons. We feared that even Tark wouldn’t be able to overcome these odds, so I was supplied with a drug to give to the soldier.” She laughed lightly. “I brought Sopus a goblet of wine with some of the drug in it, and I tried to let Tark know I was helping him: I couldn’t talk while Sopus was there, so I made faces. He thought I was crazy.”


  
Why did she have to bring that up? He hated her all the more.


  
“As it turned out, of course, Tark won without any of our help—we might have known he would. The drug knocked Sopus out, but not until the fight was over. Everybody thought he had fainted as a result of being stripped of his rank and Mauaii citizenship. Well! That night I managed to put some of the drug in the wine of the four guards who were watching Tark, and we slipped out as soon as they were unconscious.” She turned to Phindus. “Phindus tells me they were killed later on. As we left the arena we saw Rogar with a crowd of his killers approaching. They must have done it.”


  
Tark was surprised at the excitement this information caused. “Rogar!” someone said. “Then the princess must be in this, too. We have to work fast, or we’ll lose everything.”


  
“Yes,” she said. “We have to fight both the Mauaii and Rogar’s supporters: he’s really the power behind the princess. We . . .” She broke off as a messenger handed her a note. She glanced at it. “Ramfis is ready to speak to us,” she said, and there was a pleased murmer from the crowd. “Ramfis is our historian,” she told Tark. “When yet a boy he fought along side of your great-grandfather.


  
An old man was walking wearily to the head of the table, and when he looked at Tark, Tark felt for a moment that he had seen the eyes of wisdom and truth, but he brushed the feeling aside angrily: he was determined to sulk. There was no sense in getting mystical about things.


  
He was surprised to find that the old man stopped in front of him and was staring intently. “It is true,” Ramfis said. Then, turning to the eager crowd that filled the room, he said it again. “It is true. I fought beside the Liberator, and I knew him well. I have looked into this man’s eyes and I have seen the Liberator’s spirit in them.” He said it quietly, almost as if it were the most commonplace bit of information. “Tark the Liberator has come back to us.” And then, surprisingly, he turned back again to Tark and shook his arm lightly. “It is true,” he whispered. “Remember that. The Liberator’s spirit is in you.”


  
Tark slumped in his seat, disgusted: he knew how much that information was worth.


  
This gang of lunatics might be fooled by this old fake, but Tark wasn’t. What right had they to bring him up here? He folded his arms and leaned back in the seat. If they expected him to help them they were mistaken. The Liberator’s spirit! Was everybody on the planet blind? Couldn’t they see that he was just a plain man? A man who was hungry and tired and nervous? All right, he thought, I’ll get away from these fools as soon as I can and go back to the city. He glared at Niamala and Phindus, who were listening intently to the old historian.


  
“. . . and when the people of Lan rallied around Tark, the Liberator what could the Mauaii do to withstand them? What can an occupying army of tyrants do against a whole planet of men who are fighting to be free? I was there. I fought. There were no great battles, only a knife in the public square, a scuffle in the alley. When the Mauaii shut themselves up in their fortresses and camps, how could they rule? When they came out, how could they live? It was not simply Tark, it was the whole world of Lan that defeated them, sent them fleeing to their space ships. And so Lan was free again.”


  
The audience sat in silence.


  
“But Lan failed to stay free. We know why. We are not a warrior people, and we had no knowledge of what revolution meant. Lan is a world without history. Unlike Ter, the world of the Mauaii, we have always been one people, one political unit. On Ter there have been numbers of nations, each fighting against the other, and this continual lunatic battling trained them in the tactics of power. On Lan, however, after our earliest kings had subdued the barbarian tribes of the islands, there had been no fighting until the Mauaii came. The kings, themselves, had gradually given way to the Lanaian democracy, and we were a world at peace.”


  
Tark slumped in his chair. He yawned. Would it be possible for him to escape from here tonight?


  
“And then the Mauaii came, and after years of oppression, Tark the Liberator rallied the people of Lan and the Mauaii fled in terror. Then our troubles began. The kings, the former rulers of Lan, having seen the Mauaii tyranny, thought it would be possible to restore themselves to the empty throne and rule again. You know the result. When the Mauaii came back they found us a people divided, and they put a cruel yoke on our backs. And they found us with out our leader.” His voice sank. “Tark, my friend Tark, had disappeared: he has never been seen since. But gradually the belief grew up among us that he would come back in the hour of our need, that his spirit, after the great cycle of seventy five years had passed, would re-enter the body of his descendant. I need hardly remind you how we watched over this man here,” he pointed at Tark, “how we planned for this day. And I have seen Tark’s spirit in his descendants eyes.”


  
The general paced eagerly up and down the huge room. His aides clustered around him. “All right, gentlemen,” he said. “I want two regiments ready to move out in half an hour. One of my scouts has just brought word that he’s located the main headquarters of the underground: they’ve had messengers coming up from the city all day, and he managed to follow one. I hardly need remind you what this means. Once we capture the heads of this movement, the rest will crumble away. We might even get Tark! I want you to give orders to kill him on sight: we no longer need information from him. Ten thousand shojars to the man who cuts his throat. Light armor, gentlemen, we have some climbing to do. They’re in a limestone cavern up in the hills.”


  
“But two days ago Tark himself took a hand. He led a crowd into the central square and began putting pressure on the Mauaii: the first movement of the revolution was under way. We knew then that the Liberator had returned. He let himself be captured. That puzzled us at first but his capture roused the people of Lan as no other act could and his victory in the arena—which we needlessly tried to make certain of by drugging Sopus—was the spur to any laggards who might be left. Niamala helped Tark escape last night and brought him to us. On the way, they passed Rogar and a gang of his men heading for the arena . . .”


  
But at this point, worn out, Tark fell asleep: he had heard enough nonsense for the evening.


  
Gradually the night wore on. The two moons of Lan moved slowly across the sky, tiny gems of brilliance. Ter, the green planet, sank on the western horizon. An occasional Mauaii, out late and alone, paid for his stupidity with his life. A long file of soldiers slowly moved up the foothills toward a cave in the limestone cliffs.


  
When Tark woke up he thought he was sick. There was a dull throbbing pain in his belly and his legs were sore and aching. But he couldn’t afford to be sick: he had a lot of work to finish, at least thirty pair of shoes were piled up in the back of his shop. But where was he? His own bed was never this soft. And then he recognized the pain as hunger, the ache as weariness from yesterday’s climb.


  
Tears of self-pity sprang to his eyes. Nobody had ever been treated so badly. Nobody had ever gone without food for so long. A streak of light showed him where the door was. The Mauaii would forgive him. the Mauaii would know he wasn’t against them if he could only go to the city and give himself up to them. They would smile at him and feed him and let him go back to his shop if there was anything left of it after this much time without protection. See? he would say, I’m not against you. I’m not against anybody. And they’re a lot of people in a cave up there who are . . .


  
The Mauaii wouldn’t be too hard on these poor fools, not if they caught them all. He got out of bed, fumbled for his sandals, and went slowly to the door. New clothes lay on a chair just inside it. He put them on and opened the door a crack. Nobody. Stepping into the hall, he blinked against the unfamiliar brightness of the electric lights. What had they said?—something about a Mauaii technician who escaped and set them up. It was all very mysterious, but when you’re hungry you don’t think about much except the state of your stomach. The large room where they had brought him first was at the end of the hall. He crossed it, his sandals hissing softly as he shuffled on the limestone floor.


  
He felt a sudden explosion of fright in his chest when the sentry at the entrance of the cave snapped to attention: he hadn’t thought about him, and the man’s motion brought all his old terror back into being. Even in the partial darkness of the cave mouth he could see the sentry’s eyes glitter with excitement. “Tark,” the sentry—he was hardly more than a boy—said, “is it true you’re going to lead us against the Mauaii tomorrow?”


  
Tark was ashamed of himself for a moment. “Partly true,” he said. He pushed by the sentry. “I’m going out to look around.” He started down the ridge, and then, driven by emotions he couldn’t analyze, he returned to the cave. “Why don’t you have any food up here?” he asked.


  
The boy grinned. “All your fault,” he said. “When you started that mob going the other day we knew the time was near when we’d come down from here to help you, so we moved all our supplies into the city. Getting rid of the Mauaii is more important than eating for a day or so.”


  
“Um,” said Tark, and started off into the darkness. He had a long walk in front of him. It was too bad a boy like that had to be caught along with the others, but that was the way things were. It wasn’t his fault. It was the fault of those other people who stirred up all this trouble: that crazy old historian, Ramfis; people like him. Phindus. All the others . . . Niamala. He didn’t want to think about her.


  
So he thought of nothing else as he slid down the hill. He lost the trail once, and wandered for almost an hour before he came back to it again. That was why the Mauaii didn’t find him.


  
It was dawn when he reached the city, and he hurried toward his room. Maybe his landlady would have breakfast ready. Already, at this early hour, the streets were full of people. He wondered why. As he passed a bakery shop and smelled the fresh bread cooking, he wondered if he would faint from starvation before he got home. He began to run as he neared the familiar street. That was why Rogar found him.


  
“Shoemaker! Wait a minute.” A hand grabbed his arm.


  
He recognized the red-headed man who had stirred up the crowd, and he tried to shake himself free. “You aren’t getting me into any more trouble,” he yelled. “I’m going home.”


  
“Of course you are. Just get into the cart here and my men will drive you.”


  
Tark looked at the five grinning fighters who stood around him, their hands on the hilts of their swords.


  
“Don’t make any mistake about it,” Rogar said. “My men will kill you the instant you make a false move.”


  
“Doesn’t anybody understand,” Tark whined, “all I want to do is go home and be left in peace. Everybody picks on me. Everybody acts as if I were some sort of hero. Look at me,” he yelled. “Do I look like a hero? Do I look like the kind of man who gives a damn who rules Lan? Why do you think I left your cave? And now you come with your killers to drag me back. It isn’t fair.”


  
“Get in the cart,” Rogar said. “You’re not fooling anybody with that innocent act. Not after yesterday. We’ve been looking for you, Tark, and we’ve been all over the city, and everywhere we’ve been we’ve found dead Mauaii. Tark, you’re the most effective killer on Lan, and we’re not going to take any chances with you. Get in the cart or we’ll cut you down.”


  
Tark got into the cart. Was everybody crazy?


  
“We need you, Tark. We’ll pay you well. Anything you want. Anything. You can be governor of any province on Lan. All we want you to do is to stop this aimless fighting against the Mauaii and start fighting to more purpose: fight to restore the princess to the throne of Lan.”


  
“Princess? Niamala . . . is she a princess?” He wasn’t surprised. Hadn’t somebody mentioned the princess back in the cave? The girl’s features rose in front of his eyes and he tried to hate her.


  
“Niamala?” Rogar looked at him narrowly. “Who’s Niamala? I’m talking about the princess of the great dynasty of the House of Lan.”


  
“Oh,” said Tark. It didn’t seem important. He couldn’t think of anything but the girt Creaking, the cart moved through the narrow streets. “Aren’t you from Niamala?” he asked finally. “This isn’t the way to the cave.”


  
Rogar didn’t answer. He had no idea of what Tark was talking about, and that worried him. What was Tark trying to do? He eyed him closely as they sat side by side in the cart: you’d never think such a puny looking little man could have done everything Tark had carried off in the last two days. There was something unnatural about it. And he wasn’t even carrying a weapon. It was that incomprehensible gap between Tark’s meek appearance and his bloody actions that sent the chills up and down Rogar’s spine as he sat in the early morning sunlight.


  
Tark was afraid, too; but, unlike Rogar, he admitted his fear to himself. He didn’t know who these people were, but they were obviously not from the cave—Niamala and her friends hadn’t threatened him with death every time he opened his mouth. Nor were they Mauaii, that was obvious from the way the cart hugged the side streets and from the way the red-headed man had urged him to continue his fight (what fight? Tark wondered) against them. Whoever they were, they weren’t friends of his: that much was obvious. But it seemed to Tark that he was getting used to fear: it no longer filled him with wild and useless panic—or maybe he was simply so hungry that nothing else bothered him as much.


  
Tark didn’t know, of course, that all of his actions all his life had been dominated by fear: fear of the Mauaii, fear of insecurity, fear of what his name would bring him. He didn’t know that he longed for obscurity, for peace, for death as the end of fear; and he didn’t know that it was his knowledge that he could never live up to his great grandfather’s mighty deeds that made him afraid in the first place; tested in action, he knew he would fail, and he feared failure because it would make him know himself at last. Who does not fear self-knowledge? When such a man appears he brings liberation with him: he is a free man.


  
It was this fear of failure in action that had driven Tark from his only friends in the cave, driven him down to the city to give himself up to the Mauaii.


  
The cart moved faster as it had to cross one of the main avenues radiating from the public square, and Tark, looking down the wide street, saw the mighty statue of his ancestor and, further down the avenue, the governor’s palace.


  
Without even thinking about what he did, he leaped to his feet, jumped from the cart over the heads of the surprised guards, and was fleeing down the avenue as fast as he could go. His feet pounded a desperate tattoo on the cobblestones as he ran, his breath came in jagged spurts. Shouts behind him made him run faster; he ran in a nightmare of confused misery. He had to get to the palace. The Mauaii would save him.


  
Panting, he rushed into the main square, and he pushed his way frantically through the dense crowd gathered there. Heedless of the angry glances his rudeness earned him, he shoved and wriggled his way to the other side.


  
Two of Rogar’s men were there, grinning at him. He was cut off. They had hurried around the edges of the square where the crowd was less dense. Whirling, Tark rushed back into the mass of people. He was comparatively safe as long as he stayed with the others; not even Rogar would dare lay hands on him there.


  
But he couldn’t stay in the crowd forever. He was hungry and dirty and hot and miserable. He sat down wretchedly under the mighty statue of his ancestor and put his head in his hands. The bright jubilation of the people around him made him feel even worse, and he listened sullenly to their talk.


  
“. . . killed three nobles on the way to the general’s feast.”


  
“And then he . . . disguised as a sailor . . . as a woodcutter . . . the Mauaii are terrified . . . as a beggar . . . as a blind man . . . even disguised as a child . . . saw him kill six soldiers and chase the others . . .”


  
Tark groaned: this hashing over of his ancestor’s mighty feats didn’t do any good.


  
“And in the arena he . . .”


  
Amazed, he leaped to his feet. They were talking about him! “. . . saw him, too. I was there . . . wouldn’t believe it unless . . . with my own eyes . . . wonderful What a fighter! He threw away his sword and shield. I tell you he threw down his fighting equipment and attacked that fully armed soldier with his bare hands! And beat him, too. He wanted to show us that our strength is not only in weapons, he wanted to show us that we have to use our brains. Yes, and when he got that soldier down he wouldn’t even kill him. I saw it! And then he killed all four of the soldiers guarding him to show us he could do that, too. Was there ever such a fighting man? All day yesterday and all night he’s being prowling the city here, killing Mauaii. Sometimes he’s alone and sometimes he’s leading other people.” The man was looking right at Tark. “I saw him with my own eyes,” he yelled. “As clearly as I see you.”


  
“What does he look like?” somebody asked.


  
“Like that!” the man flung his arm up and pointed to the statue that loomed over them.


  
Despite himself, Tark burst out laughing. It was amazing how hard it was for some people to see the truth. “He looks like that statue?” Tark asked.


  
“You want a punch on the nose?” the man shouted. “You calling me a liar?” He shoved Tark angrily to the ground.


  
“Leave the little guy alone,” somebody said. “If you want to fight so bad why don’t you fight the Mauaii?”


  
“By all the gods! I’ll fight the Mauaii and then I’ll fight you and then I’ll come back and fight this guy that laughs at the Liberator!” The keyed-up crowd roared approval.


  
“Let’s all go,” somebody yelled. “Tear up the benches and make clubs.”


  
Forgotten, Tark lay on the ground where he had been shoved. Somebody picked him up and gently dusted him off. “Thank you,” said Tark.


  
“Not at all,” Rogar said. “Come along or I’ll kill you.” He jabbed the point of a dagger into Tark’s ribs. “You’re a dangerous man, Tark. We’re not going to take any chances with you.”


  
So Rogar wasn’t able to see the truth either.


  
It suddenly struck Tark that he, himself, might be as blind as the rest of them; but he didn’t see how that could be. The whole thing seemed to base on the false belief that his great-grandfather’s spirit had entered into his body, making him a hero, and he knew that it certainly hadn’t. No, he decided, he was the only man who wasn’t deluding himself.


  
Still, the knowledge that almost everyone on the planet of Lan seemed afraid of him made him hold his head high as he was matched captive through the streets by Rogar’s men. He was shoved into the entrance of a large building in a poorer section of the city.


  
“Up these stairs, Tark.”


  
If only he could get to the Mauaii with all the information he had picked up, not only about those poor lunatics in the cave, but about Rogar and his band of killers.


  
He smiled again, thinking of his own new reputation as a killer. Turning suddenly on the steps, he said “Boo!” to one of the men following him: the guard grabbed frantically for his sword, stepped back a pace, and toppled head over heels down the stairway.


  
Rogar laughed. “We need you, Tark,” he said. “You can name your price,” Looking back, Tark saw that the guard he had frightened was lying motionless at the foot of the stairs, his neck bent at an impossible angle.


  
“In here.” Rogar held back a curtain and followed Tark into the room. “Princess, here’s our man.”


  
“Good,” she said. “Tark, we heard about what you’ve accomplished since you escaped from the arena. We . . .”


  
Rogar interrupted her. “You haven’t heard his latest feat. He killed one of my men just by shouting at him. He timed it so the fellow would fall down the steps and break his neck.”


  
Tark was embarrassed: he had not meant to hurt the man. He was not the kind of person to whom killing was a joke. But, still, if he had such a fierce reputation as he seemed to have . . . he dismissed the thought: it would lead him to action, and he feared action because he feared failure and the self knowledge it would bring him.


  
“Well, Tark,” the princess was saying, “are you for us or against us?”


  
He came back with a start. He hadn’t been, listening.


  
“You have to decide,” she said. “There may never come a time again when the Mauaii are so weak. We have information that there is a revolt on their home planet: they can’t be reinforced here. The people of Lan are ripe, too. All it needs is your name to stir them up. Tark, throw in with us.”


  
Rogar strode forward. “What do you want, Tark? Power? We can give it to you. Fighting? All you want. Riches? Half the planet is yours. Anything a man can desire is waiting for you: reach out your hand.”


  
Tark smiled, despite himself. What would he do with power? Fighting terrified him. Riches would be nice, but he wanted breakfast much more. “Well,” he said, “I’d like my cobbler shop back, and I’d like something to eat. Mainly I’d like to be let alone.”


  
“Listen!” Rogar yelled. “You aren’t fooling anybody. We know you’ve been fighting the Mauaii: do you think we’re fools? If you agree to fight them on our side, all right! If you don’t . . .” He drew his dagger. “And you needn’t try to fight your way out. I have enough men in here to overcome you and your ancestor both! Listen! Do you know we killed him here in this room? And we can kill you, too.”


  
“Rogar?” the princess snapped, and he fell silent, panting with anger.


  
“We didn’t mean to tell you of that,” she said, “but I suppose it’s just as well. Our ancestors had him killed right here. Do you know what he was planning to do? He was going to turn the government of Lan over to the rabble. He was going to bypass the great dynasty of Lan—can you imagine that? He was going to let the planet be run by butchers and porters and sailors and . . .”


  
“And shoemakers,” Tark said softly. He was surprised at his sudden anger: he remembered Niamala turning on him, asking him furiously if he didn’t care anything about democracy. So these were the heirs of the people who had murdered the Liberator.


  
—All right, he thought, when I get to the Mauaii I won’t tell them anything about those poor fools in the cave; I’ll tell them about this house and the people in it. They deserve to be caught.


  
“We’ll give you an hour to think it over,” Rogar said. “Either you’re with us or against us. Be with us and we’ll give you power: be against us and we’ll give you death.”


  
The princess stood up. “I’ll admit it frankly,” she said. “We’re afraid of you, Tark. If you won’t join us we’ll have to kill you. I’m sure you know enough about the mechanics of power to understand that. Your name is of great value as a symbol to the people. For every Mauaii you killed yesterday the people will be inspired to kill a hundred tomorrow. Think it over thoroughly, Tark. We offer you everything a man can want.”


  
—Everything except freedom to live my own life, Tark thought. And you didn’t offer me breakfast, either. He watched them silently as they went out the door. It locked with a loud clashing of metal.


  
He didn’t know anything about the mechanics of power, but he was learning. If power gave people the ability to push others around, then something was wrong somewhere. The Mauaii were cruel overlords, but be could see that Rogar and the princess would be no better. It wasn’t simply the Mauaii he had to fight: it was everybody who wanted domination over other people.


  
He sat down glumly. What was this nonsense he was thinking? He didn’t want to fight anybody.


  
It might have been different if his great grandfather’s spirit had really returned; then he might have gone and led the people of Lan to freedom, but what could a weak, frightened, and hungry man do? He was no hero, no killer. He was a disgrace to his ancestor’s name.


  
“What will we do with him, Rogar?”


  
“Put him to death, Princess. He’s a killer. We can’t trust him. You saw how he acted, pretending to be a weakling. Tark’s playing a shrewd game, and we can’t afford to give him a chance to get ahead of us. We simply can’t trust him. If we had some hold on him, some way of making sure he wouldn’t betray Us after the Mauaii have been eliminated . . .” He paced up and down angrily. “I’ll admit it frankly,” he said, “Um afraid Of that man. The way he looks, puny, insignificant—and then the way he kills and kills. I’m a cold-blooded man, Princess, but I’ve never seen anything as terrible as the way he killed that guard coming up the steps. Tark simply turned around and said boo, and frightened him into falling downstairs and breaking his neck.”


  
“Perhaps it was an accident, Rogar. Maybe he meant to frighten the man.”


  
Princess, this man is Tark! He doesn’t play practical jokes. He wanted to show me his powers. I could have killed the guard myself if I had been in Tark’s shoes, but I would have grabbed him and thrown him over the railing: can’t you see how deadly a fighting man Tark must be if his timing in action is so good that he can estimate the exact second the man would have been off balance? But I can’t see why he did it. I thought he was trying to show me this skill as a fighter in order to be in a better position to bargain with us, but he didn’t bargain at all. No, Princess, we can’t come to terms with him. Unless we can find some way to tie him to our interests I’m afraid we’ll have to kill him.” He toyed with the handle of his dagger. “My family has been in the service of your dynasty for centuries, Princess: we killed Tark the Liberator once, and we can do it again.”


  
“Do it, Rogar,” she hissed. “Kill him now and we’ll blame it on the Mauaii.” Her eyes were slits of cold flame. “Kill Tark, Rogar.”


  
He strode to the door. “Guards,” he shouted.


  
She struggled angrily in their brawny hands. “Let me go,” she said. “You don’t have to shove me. I want to go where you’re taking me, don’t you understand that?”


  
“In here,” one of them said. They pushed Niamala into the building. “Your lover-boy’s upstairs if Rogar hasn’t killed him yet.” The guard laughed. “Won’t I do?”


  
“Where is he? Take me to him.” Her nails left a series of red streaks down the guard’s face, and he drew back his fist in fury. “You asked for it,” he yelled. “You can’t . . .”


  
“Guards!” The commanding voice from the top of the stairs froze him instantly in his place. “Come up here. Bring your swords. We have work to do. On the double.”


  
“Rogar!” Niamala shook herself free from the man holding her. “Rogar, I want to speak to you.”


  
“Who’s that?” He came to the head of the steps and glared down.


  
“Never mind who I am. I came to tell you to release Tark?”


  
His harsh laughter reverberated through the house.


  
“Release him!” he shouted. Tm just about to release him from everything. How did you know he was here? No matter?’ He waited while his men filled the hall. “Two of you dig a couple of graves in the floor of the archive room. We’re going to kill Tark and I don’t want any delay in hiding the body. Wait a minute. Take that girl with you. Make sure she’s dead before you bury her. All right. The rest of you come up here. Tark’s no use to us if he won’t fight on our side. We’re going to . . .” He broke off and then was running down the steps two at a time, his boots clattering across the hall as he moved swiftly to where Niamala was struggling with the two guards who were pulling her out of the large room. Grabbing her by the arms, he shook her furiously. “Who are you? What are you to Tark? By the gods, you’ll be dead in two minutes if you don’t answer me. How do you know my name? Who are you?”


  
Pulling a pin from her hair, she thrust frantically at his-eyes with it, but he ducked and the guards grabbed her again.


  
“Who brought her in? Who found this woman?”


  
“I did, Rogar.” Holding his neck-cloth over his scratched face one of the men stepped forward. “I was on watch outside the building when I saw her prowling around the back. She told me right off that she knew we had Tark inside. So I brought her in. I didn’t figure you wanted anybody to know where he was. I . . .”


  
“All right,” Rogar waved him to silence.


  
“I came for two things, Rogar.”


  
“So you can talk.”


  
“I can do more than talk,” she said, shaking herself loose from the grip of the two mem “I can break this rotten conspiracy of yours wide open if you don’t let Tark go. My friends are all around this house.”


  
“Your friends? Do you think the Mauaii could come within a mile of this place without my knowledge?”


  
“The Mauaii! Rogar, don’t you know who the people were who rose behind Tark seventy-five years ago when he chased the Mauaii from Lan?” She stepped forward. “Listen, Rogar. I represent the underground organization of people who want freedom and democracy. Freedom from the Mauaii and freedom from that worn out dynasty you’re working for.”


  
He laughed again. “Don’t fool me, girl. I know how much difficulty my own organization had in existing since the Mauaii returned: are you trying to tell me that a bunch of undisciplined fools could . . .”


  
“If you think that free men can be less brave or less determined than the followers of tyrants, Rogar, you’re wrong. We existed. We exist. If Tark and I don’t leave this house together in less than ten minutes my friends will tear it down over your thick head.”


  
“Excellent!” Rogar said. “I like a good bluff. He seated himself on the lower step. “Suppose we wait for ten minutes and see what happens.”


  
Niamala felt a flutter of dismay in her heart. It was a weak bluff at best, but what else could she have done once she found herself helpless inside the fortified house? First Tark’s disappearance in the middle of the night had driven her hopelessly from the cave in search of him, and then the sight of the Mauaii batallion attacking the cave entrance she had just left had come as a great shock. Most of the underground would escape by the prepared passageways in the tunneled limestone, but she knew that many of them would be captured on their way to the meeting place in the city.


  
So with misery in her heart she had come down the mountain.


  
As soon as she heard the description of the small man who had been taken off by Rogar and his armed guards, she knew where Tark would be found. The people who told her, or course, didn’t know it was Tark they had seen, but she recognized him from their description. Frantically, she had rushed off to look at Tark’s prison, rushed off without making any plan for her safety or Tark’s rescue, and now she found herself helpless, a captive in Rogar’s hands.


  
Miserably, she sat beside Rogar while the minutes passed.


  
“Well?” he said finally. “Are you ready to talk now? Your bluff didn’t work.”


  
She shook her head sullenly, determined not to make things worse by talking.


  
“You came here to save Tark, didn’t you? All right. You know we have him upstairs in this building. You know we were about to kill him when you came in. Listen to me. The only thing that can save Tark now is for him to join us.”


  
“He’ll never join you,” she burst out.


  
“Perhaps he will.” He looked at her. “Niamala, what makes you so sure he won’t?”


  
“Because he . . . how did you know my name?”


  
Rogar grinned fiercely at her. “I didn’t. When we captured Tark this morning he asked if we were from Niamala. You mean something to him, don’t you? Maybe if we let him know we hold you as a hostage . . .” He didn’t bother to finish the sentence. “Let’s see how he takes it.” He stood up and pulled her to her feet. “Guards! You ten stand behind me with your swords ready. If Tark tries to make any trouble, cut him down. All right. Let’s go.”


  
They went up the great curving staircase and stood outside the heavy wooden door. Rogar unlocked the massive chains and slipped the door open. “Tark,” he said softly, “we’ve brought you something. I have reason to think you value it highly.”


  
“Breakfast?” said a weary voice from the dark room. Tark couldn’t think of anything he wanted more.


  
“Don’t give in to them, Tark,” Niamala shouted suddenly.


  
“Who’s that?” he called, springing to his feet. The light in the hall dazzled him.


  
Rogar shoved her inside the room.


  
“Niamala?” Tark moved towards her, forgetting his hunger and his fear and his weariness. Value it highly! Rogar’s sneer had opened Tark’s eyes. It wasn’t hatred that had glowed in his chest whenever he thought of her: it was love. He moved almost happily through the room of death and held her gently while he looked into her eyes. How could he have been so wrong? It seemed to him that everybody on Lan was moving through a fog of delusion, and that only love could make the fog lift to show the clear landscape of truth. Poor Tark—he had learned part of the truth and he thought he knew it all. He was just about to kiss Niamala when Rogar’s arrogant laughter made them spring stiffly apart; they had forgotten that they were prisoners.


  
“I see you know each other,” Rogar said. “I’ll leave you two alone for an hour to talk things over. After that I won’t kill you, Tark. I’ll kill the girl . . . unless you join us.” He slid out of the room, and the clank of chains showed them that they were locked in.


  
“What are you doing here?” Tark asked.


  
She sat down disconsolately on the stone floor. “I came to rescue you,” she said. “The revolution needs you. But I came rushing into the house without a plan, just rushing in like a fool, and so here I am.” She gestured around wearily “Here.”


  
He sat down beside her and she rested her head on his shoulder.


  
“Tark,” she said, “I’m an awful fool.”


  
“Everybody’s an awful fool,” said Tark, who had learned something in the last few days. “Don’t let it worry you.”


  
She smiled up at him in the darkness, “I mean you didn’t need me to help you escape if you wanted to. You could have broken out of here at any time.”


  
“What?” said Tark, bewildered.


  
“I keep forgetting you’re the Liberator.”


  
“Damn!” Tark jumped to his feet. “I thought you . . . I thought you could see the truth. I thought you . . . Listen . . . I’m only a shoemaker. Can’t you understand that? I make shoes. I’m not a hero. I’m not a killer. I’m not a Liberator or anything else. I thought you . . .” He broke off, letting the echoes of his voice ring flatly from the stone walls. He wanted to say I thought you loved me and understood me, but be didn’t dare. The memory of Phindus came back to him. She had kissed Phindus. She loved Phindus. Tark had never been as lonely as he was now. “I’m sorry,” he said. Couldn’t he ever get rid of the webs of misunderstanding? “It’s just that nobody knows who I really am. Everybody thinks I’m somebody great. I’m not! I’m me! Tark! That’s all!”


  
He was sitting on the floor again, and she was stroking his forehead with a cool hand. “Tark, do you remember Ramfis?”


  
“Who?” He didn’t want to talk any more. When Rogar came back he’d agree to anything the man wanted. That was the simplest way out.


  
“Ramfis. The old historian in the cave.”


  
“Oh, him. Sure.”


  
“Tark, he fought beside your great-grandfather. He’s an old man, Tark, and an honest man. He says you have your great-grandfather’s spirit in you. Listen to me, Tark. Don’t shake your head. Hear me out until I’m finished. If Ramfis says you’re the Liberator, then it’s true. You can count on that. It’s true. Maybe you don’t know it. Maybe you don’t want to know it. But, Tark, you have the spirit of the Liberator in you, and you can free this planet from the Mauaii and from the dynasty if you want to. The Maiuaii are in trouble, Tark. Have you ever noticed which of them are on Lan? Think, Tark! Only soldiers and officials and great lords and ladies and a few technicians. You can’t build a civilization on people like that! Where are the common people among the Mauaii? Not here, Tark, but on their own planet of Ter.” She twisted her lips to form the unfamiliar syllable. “Long ago their physical sciences advanced far beyond their knowledge of how to use them. Vast riches were theirs, but instead of using them they fought over them. Tark, they defeated famine and disease, but they couldn’t defeat their own foolishness. And so war followed war, and the rights of the individual began to get lost in the shuffle. A country where everyone thinks the same thoughts and does the same things is stronger—on the brute level of force—than a country where people are free, and so in the name of preserving freedom, freedom was attacked. You’ve seen the results. The Mauaii! Fighters who fight for oppression, rulers who rule for tyranny, a few rich people who live for nothing, and thinkers who are reduced to the level of technicians lest they think of something that may cause the rulers trouble. You saw the electric lights in the cave, Tark. They were set up for us by one of the Mauaii technicians who deserted them, and he was only the first. Without their technicians they’re helpless. Think, Tark! Does it make sense that people who have spaceships must do their fighting with bows and arrows and swords? It’s because the warrior class distrusts the technicians, and because the rulers fear them. Well, Tark, the technicians have abandoned the warriors and the rulers. If the Mauaii fight us now it’ll be on our own ground and with the same kind of weapons we have. They’ve kept us in ignorance for as long as they could, but they didn’t realize that they lived in the same ignorance as we.”


  
“Um,” said Tark unenthusiastically. He loved her and she loved Phindus. All the talk in the world wouldn’t fix that.


  
“And, Tark, listen. Even on their own planet they’re in trouble. They never fully beat down the people who want freedom. Not here and not on Ter. Parts of their world had a long tradition of liberty, and they were never able to stamp it out. There’s rebellion on Ter now, Tark; rebellion against the Mauaii. Listen to this. It’s from an ancient document that some of the Terrans, as they call themselves, have been protecting for thousands of years. Listen, Tark. They never forgot it.” She paused while a guard’s heavy feet tramped past the door.


  
“We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. That to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed.”


  
“I still don’t see what it has to do with me,” Tark said.



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  




OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
from the head of the dean.” Now, this was difficult, for the dean was bald. “The second task is to get an A in my course in chemical Thermodynamics 268b.” Now, this was impossible, for the old and evil professor had never given an A in the ninety-eight point six years he had been teaching. “The third task, the difficult one,” he would say, smiling and sneering, “is to bring me something in which I can keep the universal solvent.”


  
And he would reach into a cabinet and take out two test tubes full of liquid. “Name a substance, any substance,” he would say, and the student would name a substance. And whatever substance the student named: platinum, antimony, tungsten, molybdenum, cheddar cheese; the professor would take it out of the cabinet and place it on his desk.


  
“Look,” he would say, and he would pour the contents of the two test tubes into a flask which he placed on top of whatever substance it was the student had named. The mixture would bubble and bobble and seethe and wheeze and. gurgle and gulp and go whoosh! right through the bottom of the flask and right on through the substance (whatever it was) and right through the desk and right through the floor and through the basement and through the granite mountain on which the university stood and it would go right on down through the bedrock, and if you looked long enough and hard enough, you would see daylight at the other end of the hole and maybe some Chinamen looking back at you in a puzzled way, for it was indeed the universal solvent and it would eat right through the earth and come out on the other side.


  
“See?” the professor would say.


  
And the poor student would go away, but none of them ever got a hair from the head of the dean, though the dean was a sympathetic man and would have helped If he could; and none ever got an A from the professor, for the professor himself saw to that; and none of them ever found anything in which to keep the universal solvent, though they tried many ingenious things.


  
It was tough.


  
And all this time the professor beautiful daughter used to sit in her room and sigh long sighs. I never wept, for she was too wonderful a girl to weep, but she used to sigh, and she feared that she won become an old maid, for she was already eighteen.


  
Now, there was one student the school whom the old and ex professor disliked especially. His name was John, and he was not king’s son, but his father had once served on a jury, which is just as good. John was in love with the professor’s daughter and she was in love with him. She used to look out her window and see him running classes (he was nearly always late) and she loved him because he was so lovable. There was surely no other reason, for he was somewhat ugly and had a big adam’s apple and flapping ears and a silly grin and a hole in his sweater and one term he had flunked Mechanical Engineering (Theory and Use of the Square). He was a nice guy.


  
So one day John showed up the professor’s office and knocked on the door. “Come in, John,” said the professor with a sneer, “I suppose you want to marry my daughter.”


  
“That may be,” said John, “and that may not be. Save your breath for I already know your condition and here is a lock of hair from the head of the dean.”


  
The evil old professor took the lock of hair and his hand shook, for a student had ever been able to get even this much before.


  
“How did you get this?” he asked. The dean is bald.”


  
“Perhaps I will tell you and perhaps I won’t,” said John, for he knew how these things should be said, “and perhaps the dean’s wife gave it to me from a locket which she wears around her neck. She clipped it from his head ninety-eight point six years ago, when he had hair.”


  
The professor cursed a curse which made two copies of “De Re Metalica” fall from the shelf. “You’ll ever get an A in Chemical Thermodynamics 268b,” he said.


  
“Perhaps I won’t and perhaps I ill and perhaps I already did,” id John. “Look at this transcript my record. You gave me an A first term.”


  
“I never did,” screamed the professor and he looked wildly through s records. “Here it is. I gave you an F. Look here. See? The other one is where a fly walked across the paper while the ink was wet.”


  
“Ah,” said John, “but that other one makes it look like an A; another distorted A perhaps, but nevertheless an A.”


  
“I’ll have it changed. I’ll have it managed immediately.”


  
“Perhaps you will and perhaps you won’t, but the registrar is my second cousin twice removed and he won’t let you change it.”


  
“Look here,” said the professor, and his voice shook, “Can you find something to keep my universal solvent in?”


  
John slumped. “I had hoped you might let me off that one. That’s hard.”


  
“Can you? Can you?”


  
“No.”


  
“Ha!” shouted the old and evil professor.


  
John’s ears flapped despondently. “How much time do I have?”


  
“Three days. Three little days. Not a minute, not a second, not a millimicrosecond more.”


  
“Oh.”


  
“Well said. Now get out. I think you’ll make a fine laboratory assistant.”


  
One whole day passed and John hadn’t found anything.


  
Another whole day passed and still John hadn’t found anything.


  
And on the third day, as he approached the edge of the high mountain to throw himself plop! into the sea, he heard a voice calling his name, “John, John,” and he Knew that it was the professor’s daughter. Now, he had never heard her voice before, but he was in love, so he knew who was calling him.


  
“John, John, climb up to my window,” she cried, and he climbed up to her window, using the ivy which covered the walls of the old and famous university.


  
“John, have you thought of anything?”


  
“Nothing,” he said. “I am going to throw myself splop! into the sea.”


  
“Don’t do that,” she said. “I have an idea.” And she told him her idea. “Do you think it will work?”


  
“Yes!” he cried. “Yes!” And he let go of the ivy to kiss her so he fell three stories to the ground, but he was in love so he didn’t get hurt. “I’ll be right back,” he shouted. “If it works I’ll be right back.” He ran off, hopping over hedges, until he reached the office of the old and evil professor.


  
“Come in,” the professor said. “Have you given up?”


  
“Fiddle-dee-dee,” said John, who seldom swore, “Just you get out your old solution and I’ll show you what to keep it in.”


  
The evil old professor laughed his nastiest laugh when he heard this, for he knew that his universal solvent would eat right through everything.


  
“Very well,” he said. “Here you are. Where is your container?”


  
“May I have a cake of ice?”


  
“Ice?”


  
“Ice.”


  
The professor reached into his cabinet, and it was indeed a large and well-stocked cabinet, and took out a cake of ice.


  
“And a soldering iron?”


  
He took out a soldering iron. “What do you expect to do with this rubbish?”


  
“Watch and see.” John waited for the iron to become hot, then sssss! he melted a cavity into the ice. “OK,” he said. “Let’s go. Mix your stuff over that hole.”


  
The professor poured the liquids from the two test tubes into the flask. They fizzled and sizzled and fell flop! through the bottom of the flask and into the cavity in the ice and went sssss! through the ice a little way and stopped dead, frozen.


  
“Oh, my,” said the professor, “that isn’t fair.”


  
“Perhaps it isn’t and perhaps it is,” said John, “but when it’s frozen it can’t dissolve anything and I am going to marry your daughter tomorrow.”


  
“But it’s not a solvent any more,” said the professor, and he stuck his finger down into the hole and poked the frozen solution and it thawed a bit and went sssss! and dissolved his fingernail. “Drat,” said the professor.


  
“You can come to the wedding if you want,” said John.


  
The professor argued himself blue in the face and black in the face and green in the face (and very evil and ugly he looked with a green face) but there was nothing he could do.


  
And so John sent the lock of hair back to the dean’s wife to treasure because he didn’t have any left, and he let the registrar, who was his second cousin twice removed, be the best man when he married the professor’s daughter, and everybody lived happily ever after. Almost everybody, anyway, for the poor laboratory assistants went right on doing fractional distillations.



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
“You don’t? Freedom is everybody’s business. Listen, Tark, we need you. We need every fighter we can get.”


  
“Fighter?” said Tark. “I . . .”


  
He broke off. Everybody thought he was a fighter. A fighter! If he were a fighter he wouldn’t sit idly by and lose Niamala to Phindus. No. He’d fight to take her away from Phindus. He’d grab her and tell her he loved her. That’s what he’d do if he were a fighter.


  
So he grabbed her and told her he loved her.


  
“Niamala, I love you.”


  
“Sure, me too.”


  
“What?”


  
“I love you too.”


  
He let go and stepped back in amazement. “But . . . But I . . . But you went running up to Phindus when you saw him there on the mountain. You were always with him. I saw you. You kissed him. He kissed you. I . . . Don’t you love him?”


  
“Of course I love him.”


  
“He’s my brother.”


  
“Do you think he’ll come over to our side, Rogar?”


  
“He’ll have to, Princess. I saw how he looked at that girl when we shoved her in with him. She’ll make a perfect hostage.”


  
“I won’t feel safe until he’s dead.”


  
“Neither will I, Princess, but we have to use him first. As soon as the people see he’s on our side we’ll be sure to win. After that . . .” He drew his finger across his throat “We can kill the girl immediately, of course, and let him think we’re holding her captive.”


  
“Is that wise, Rogar?”


  
“Wise or not; I’m going to do it. There’s power in complete ruthlessness, Princess: your enemies always underestimate you.”


  
“How much longer are you going to give them?”


  
“Another half hour should be plenty.”


  
“Half an hour! Five minutes would be better.”


  
“But how are we going to escape?” she asked.


  
“Escape?”


  
“Get out of here.”


  
“Oh.” Reluctantly Tark brought himself back to reality. “You mean escape. I don’t suppose we can.”


  
“Well,” she said, “it was nice knowing you. I suppose you know Rogar plans to kill me in a little while.”


  
“No he won’t. Not if I agree . . .”


  
“Tark! You wouldn’t make a deal with Rogar. He wouldn’t keep his side of it in any event.”


  
“Well . . . I guess not. But to escape . . . that’s hard.” He looked around at the stone walls and floor.


  
“The Liberator could do it.”


  
“I’m not . . .” There was no point in losing his temper. If he couldn’t persuade even Niamala that he wasn’t the Liberator, how could he ever persuade anybody else? “Wait! Aren’t we upstairs here?”


  
“Yes,” she said. “We’re over the room where Rogar keeps the dynasty’s documents. Old Ramfis says he’d give everything he has to be able to have free run of that room for a week. He says he could write a history that would . . .”


  
“If we’re over another room then the stones in the floor here can’t be very thick. They’d weigh too much.” He dropped to his knees, glad to be able to cut off her talk about the old historian. Her faith in Ramfis’ declaration that he really contained the spirit of the Liberator seemed to build a wall between them.


  
“Give me one of your shoes,” he said.


  
“My shoe?” She held it out to him. “But why?”


  
“Watch.” With practiced hands he ripped off the sole. “I recognized the make. There’s a chunk of metal under the arch here to support the instep.” He pulled the rest of the shoe apart. “Here,” he said.


  
“Do the same to the other one.”


  
Taking the piece of steel in his right hand, he began to work it into the cement joining one of the stones of the floor to the base of the wall. “How much time do you suppose we have?”


  
Niamala was kneeling beside him, digging with the other piece of metal. “I don’t know, but let’s hurry.”


  
Ten minutes later she helped Tark pull the stone out of position. Together they kneeled and looked down into the dark room beneath them.


  
“Here,” Tark said. “Give me your hands and I’ll swing you down as far as I can.”


  
She landed with a thump and a gasp. “All right,” she called up.


  
Tark looked at his hands. Blood. “Why didn’t you tell me you were cutting yourself? I could have dug that . . .”


  
“Come on down,” she called. “We have to get out of here. You can heal cut hands but not a cut throat.”


  
Tark grabbed the edge of the flooring and slid downward into the darkness. He hung full length for a moment, nerving himself to make the drop.


  
“Hurry up,” whispered Niamala, and he let go.


  
Thump!


  
“Ow!”


  
“Shhh. They’ll hear us.”


  
“I think I’ve broken my neck.”


  
“Did you?”


  
“No. I guess not.”


  
“You made enough noise.”


  
“I’m just not used to this hero business. I’m a shoemaker.”


  
“Tark! Somebody’s coming down the hall outside. What if he comes in here?”


  
“Shhh. Get behind me.”


  
The door opened.


  
Bop!


  
“Tark! What did you do?”


  
“I hit him with one of these metal boxes. Help me pull him inside and shut the door again. Is he dead?”


  
“Unconscious. What’s all this paper?”


  
“The box open when I hit him. The paper was in it.”


  
“Tark! Tark!”


  
“What?”


  
“One of these papers is addressed to you!”


  
They sat down below the grating through which a dim light trickled, neither of them knowing that the Liberator’s unmarked grave was only a few feet away in the same room.


  
“Rogar, they’ve had enough time together.”


  
“Another fifteen minutes, Princess. I want to wear down Tark’s nerve by the waiting.”


  
“Are you arguing with me, Rogar?”


  
“Princess! I am your humble advisor.”


  
“Then have the girl taken out and killed.”


  
“Yes, Princess.”


  
“At once.”


  
“In fifteen minutes, Princess. I have just sent one of my guards down to prepare her grave in the archive room.”


  
“Rogar, you will have her killed now. Immediately. And then you will give orders that half of your guards are to be taken into my own corps of warriors. You have no need of so many personal troops. I said nothing of it before, but now, with this Tark business, you seem much too independant. Remember, Rogar, you are not ruler here. I am.”


  
“My family has always served yours, Princess. You need not mistrust me. I shall obey your order. Guard!” He waited until one of his men appeared-at the door. “You will prepare a squad to take and execute the girl . . . in fifteen minutes.”


  
“This is amazing,” Tark said. “I don’t know what to think.” He had the paper close to his eyes. Niamala tried to read it over his shoulder. Neither of them saw the guard twitch and start to roll over.


  
“What does it say?” she asked.


  
“What’s amazing?”


  
“Listen to this: From Tark the Liberator to his Descendants. Listen. He wrote it himself. It says: ‘I write this in haste, hoping it will someday reach my son or one of my grandsons. I am about to die. I am frightened. Perhaps writing this will enable me to pull myself together and face death bravely, but I am not a brave man. I . . .”


  
“Not brave?” Niamala asked. “The Liberator not brave? But no greater hero ever walked on Lan.”


  
“Listen to this,” said Tark “. . . ‘but I am not a brave man. I fear pain and I fear death. I am told that the dynasty is erecting a great statue in the public square, a statue which will bear my name; my jailors have taken me to the room and let me see it. Deadly irony! It is of a giant, strong, confident. But I am only a small, weak, frightened man; and the rulers of Lan want the symbol of liberation to be a superman. It was not supermen who freed this planet from the Mauaii. It was men. It was ordinary men. And that is what these tyrants want the people to forget—that ordinary men have the strength to overthrow tyranny. It was fear that sharpened my wits in my battles with . . .”


  
Leaping to his feet, the soldier rushed toward the door. Tark flung the document to Niamala, jumped at the guard, smashed him in the throat with one fist, bounced his head against the wall with the other, and slammed his knee against the man’s jaw as he went down.


  
“I thought you weren’t a fighter,” Niamala said.


  
“Do you realize what this means?” Tark asked. “All my life I’ve been living under the shadow of that statue. All my life I’ve known I couldn’t live up to my ancestor’s deeds. But I can! I can do whatever he did! He was only a man like me. They made him into a symbol, but behind the symbol was a man. He fought one group of tyrants and another group killed him. But he was a man.”


  
He took the paper back from Niamala. “Listen to this: the last paragraph. ‘They will come for me soon: I understand I am to be buried here in the archive room!’ ”


  
“Here!” whispered Niamala.


  
“They will keep my death secret. The king’s aide tells me he has already set a rumor afoot that I have been taken up to the land of the gods, that I will return every seventy five years to the body of one of my descentants if I am needed. Ashes in my mouth! Truth is what the people need, not superstition. All I have fought for is gone—one tyranny is as bad as another. But the people have overthrown the Mauaii, and I know they will overthrow the dynasty in time. I leave this paper among the thousands of papers here in the archives: it will be safe here. Tyrants, having no need of truth, have no need for history. When finally these papers are studied, I ask the finder to deliver this, my last testament, to any of my descendants then living. I am a man. I was a man. Stand in no hero’s shadow: the sunlight is for everyone.”


  
Niamala was gripping Tark’s arm tightly. “I didn’t know,” she said. “None of us knew. We never thought of him as human.”


  
Tark drew a deep breath. “We’re all human,” he said. “All of us. Remember that soldier I fought in the arena? He was a professional hero, a killer, but he was as afraid as I was when he thought he was about to die. Niamala, I think we’re going to win this revolution. Now let’s concentrate on getting out of here.”


  
“Rogar, I told you to have the girl killed immediately. Why did you give orders to wait?”


  
“Because I thought it best. The longer . . .”


  
“You thought it best! You!”


  
“Permit me to continue. The longer Tark and the girl are locked in the room there, the more willing Tark will be to join us in order to save her life.”


  
“You put your will above mine?” Who am I, Rogar?”


  
“You are the princess of the great house of Lan.”


  
“And who are you?”


  
“I am Rogar, your devoted advisor.”


  
“Stand up in my presence, Rogar. Without my support you are nothing, you are less than a beggar.”


  
“Do you really believe that nonsense? Do you really think your silly dynasty could last two days without . . .”


  
“Rogar! Shut up and stand up or I’ll . . .”


  
“Ah! The fishwife, the nagging shrew appears. Listen, you silly little . . .”


  
“You’re under arrest, Rogar.” Furious, she strode to the door. “Guards!” she called. “Arrest this man.” Her whole body trembled with rage as she pointed at Rogar.


  
“They won’t do it,” he said.


  
“It’s time you learned . . .”


  
“Won’t we?” asked one of the guards, drawing his sword. “You heard her highness, Rogar, You’re under arrest.”


  
“No he isn’t,” yelled the other guard. “You can’t arrest Rogar.”


  
Men died.


  
As the guards from the doorways were pulled into the fight raging in front of the princess’ apartments, Tark and Niamala, hand in hand, walked peacfully out of the building. He knew now that the Liberator’s spirit was in him, as it was in every man who feared death but hated tyranny.


  
“What will we do now?” Niamala asked.


  
“Now? First we’ll get breakfast. Then we’ll kick the Mauaii off Lan.” He looked back. “I don’t think the dynasty will give us any trouble, they seem too busy fighting themselves. Then we’ll settle down and open a cobbler’s shop.”


  
And so Tark, Tark the Liberator, walked the streets of Lan after an absence of seventy five years.


  
THE END



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
Fission Story

  
And so


  
It was that


  
Once upon a time


  
There lived an old and


  
Evil Professor who was very,


  
Very fiendish. This was not good.


  
But when he joined forces


  
With Instructor McAwful,


  
The whole world


  
Trembled in


  
Fear.


  
ONCE upon a time (alas, part part of this story is true) there was an old and evil professor who professed many sciences and who was giving a lecture to his terrified students. Now, this lecture was the last lecture of the term, and it was the professor’s most famous lecture of all. It was so famous that students from every university within thousands of miles used to flee in terror to the nearest hills, for when he lectured this lecture dams used to break and earthquakes used to quake and thunderstorms used to come and knock down pine trees. And every year after the lecture was over the surviving students would all be failed.


  
Some years, of course, there would be no survivors.


  
It seemed that this was going to be one of those years, for the professor was at his best, which was identical with his worst. He had howled and foamed at the mouth, he had covered the blackboards with equations that had made them burst into flame, he had turned the janitor into a bat, he had proved that beauty was a myth and truth an illusion, and he was just getting warmed up when the interruption came.


  
It didn’t come from the students, for they were all under their seats, quaking with fright; even the student named John, who was the best student in the school, for they all knew that this was the last lecture they would-ever attend.


  
No: the interruption came from a stocky man who needed a shave and a bath. He came into the lecture room while the professor was in midleap, and he came strolling down the center aisle just as if the air were not filled with smoke and thunder, crying out: “Congratulations. McAwful has decided to accept you in his project.”


  
And when the professor heard this he was so surprised he floated gently down to the lecture platform and stopped talking. “Ek?” was all he could say.


  
“McAwful is instructor in political science in this old and famous university,” the intruder said. “McAwful finds you show proper school spirit.” He held out a muddy hand. “McAwful is me.”


  
And all the students peeped over the backs of their chairs and shuddered, for they knew that McAwful was about to be murdered in some new and ingenious way; but to their surprise the old and evil professor was smiling mildly at him, so mildly that his fangs hardly showed, so mildly that a soft wind came and blew the smoke from the lecture room. “Political what?” asked the professor.


  
“Political science,” answered McAwful, and even the frightened students chuckled. “Shake my muddy hands,” he said.


  
“And what is political science?” asked the professor, and the students could see evil, like a small black ball, gathering itself at his back.


  
“Political science,” answered McAwful, “as I practice it, is the body of knowledge which enables one to become ruler of this old and famous university. In particular it is the study of how to accuse one’s enemies in the faculty of lacking in school spirit. Shake my filthy hand.”


  
And the old and evil professor drew himself up to be ten feet tall and he reached into the air while lighting flashed at his fingertips and around the lunatic fringe of his hair and he screeched once and bang! he brought the lightning down-on McAwful’s head.


  
And then the old and evil professor knew that he had met someone as evil as he, for McAwful merely smiled an unshaven smile. “Fire doesn’t bother old tail-gunner Joe,” said McAwful. “Old tailgunner Joe is a hero, and he has sent in for medals to prove it.”


  
“Please sir, who is old tail-gunner Joe?” asked one of the students.


  
“Bless you child, old tail-gunner Joe is me,” answered McAwful. and he went to the window which overlooked the sea and pointed his finger at an airliner which was passing by. “Bing!” he said. The airplane turned upside down and rolled over three times and went splash! into the waves. “See?” said McAwful. “Probably full of spies.”


  
“Golly,” said the student, looking at McAwful with worship in his eyes. “I don’t like your methods, but I must admit you get results. All those spies! Please sir, I was an aerial gunner once and I wonder if you can tell me what the rad lead is for a fighter in pursuit curve at an angle off of twenty two and a half degrees if your plane is doing two hundred and fifty. I forgot.”


  
And McAwful looked at him and the student fell dead.


  
“Another spy,” said McAwful. “You can always tell a spy.”


  
How?” asked the student named John.


  
“Anyone who disagrees with me is a spy, utterly lacking in school spirit, and he deserves all he gets,” answered McAwful, beginning to look at John as he had looked at the other student.


  
But now the old and evil professor had recovered from the shock he had received. “Stop,” he cried. “How dare you kill my students? Back to the politics department with you! The school of physical science is mine!” And the students all shouted agreement, for they preferred to be murdered by someone they knew.


  
And McAwful looked at the old and evil professor and handed him a cheese. “Here,” he said. “A gift.”


  
“Poison?” asked the professor, somewhat mollified.


  
“Naturally. Everything I touch turns to poison.” He grinned. “But I have bigger gifts for you, much bigger.”


  
And the professor turned to the students. “Class dismissed,” he said. “Leave at once. All but John.” He bowed courteously to McAwful. “I hope you don’t mind if I test a bit of this valuable cheese: the scientific method, you know.” And the students, all but John, rushed frantically from the lecture hall and took to the hills. “Here, John,” said the professor, handing him the cheese.


  
“Thank you,” said John, “but my wife doesn’t let me eat between meals.” He handed it back. “Sir,” he asked the unshaven intruder, “are you the Instructor McAwful who’s in charge of project Whimper?”


  
“I am.” said McAwful, smiling, smiling, always smiling. “And that is what I came here for.” He looked at the old and evil professor. “Cooperate with me,” he said, “and I’ll make you head of the scientific division. And this is a great honor, for McAwful has searched through the entire faculty of this old and famous university to find a man who can be trusted with the task.”


  
“But,” said the old and evil professor, “What is Project Whimper?”


  
“Ah,” said McAwful. “It is the old and famous unversity’s private atomic bomb project. I have discovered that every man on the job was a spy, lacking the proper school spirit, and I have also discovered that every other member of the department of political science was also a spy: consequently I have taken over the great task of leading the project. If you agree to cooperate with me, I am sure that McAwful can find all the other professors of science are unreliable. Yes: McAwful can prove that none of them are true supporters of the football team.”


  
Now, when John heard this, he sat down bewildered on the floor, for he knew that the old and evil professor was the only spy in the entire old and famous university and that he had been selling the university’s secret plays to a rival university for many years, and that, of all professors, the old and evil one was the one who least supported the football team: In fact one of his hobbies was murdering quarterbacks and putting drugs in the linemen’s food to make them lose weight.


  
“I accept,” said the old and evil professor, smiling a secret smile to himself; for he knew that, although McAwful was as evil as he, he was less wily and could be tricked. “What do you wish me to do.?”


  
And they put their evil heads together and plotted. When they had finished plotting, McAwful shook hands with the professor (but not with John) and scurried from the room to accuse his enemies of lacking school spirit. You could watch from the window that overlooked the campus and see how he left a small trail of smoke behind him as he ripped books from the students’ hands and set them afire. Faintly his voice floated into the lecture hall: “Books! What do you need with books when I’m here to tell you what to think?”


  
But he did not know he had plotted right into the old and evil professor’s old and evil hands. “Come, John,” said the professor. “We have work to do, pleasant work.” And John shuddered, for he knew that the only work the professor considered pleasant was trying to end the world. “I have been trying for a long time to get on Project Whimper?” And he laughed, “Yeek, yeek.” And his laughter mingled with the crackle of burning books. “Me Awful is accusing the people who have been trying to stop me. Come, John, in the name of science!”


  
But even the name of science would not make John join the professor in his old and evil schemes. “No,” he said. “Ninety-eight point six times No?”


  
But the professor was a genius (so, by the way, was John and so was John’s wife (and so was nearly everybody else at the old and famous university except the football players (and, of course, McAwful (who was merely evil)))) and consequently he knew how to overcome John’s school spirit. “Come, John,” he said, “and be my lab assistant on the project and I will not flunk you. You will graduate!” And of course John had to accept, for he had been twelve years at the old and famous university trying to get his degree: he had to accept even though he knew that the end of the world was coming as soon as the project was over. That’s the way students are. All but football players: they never graduate if they can help it.


  
But they never help end the world, either.


  
Anyhow, John acted as the old and evil professor’s lab assistant for three days while the old and evil professor studied the atomic bomb the school had developed. “Yeek,” cried the old and evil professor at the end of this period, “take this down, John.” And he dictated a long and obscure formula, full of minuses and pluses and sigmas and thetas and x’s and iambic pentameters and roots and coefficients and similar scientific rubbish. “Do you know what this is, John? This is the formula for a self-perpetuating chain reaction. When the bomb is set off it will set off the surrounding air which will set off the rest of the atmosphere and the rest of the earth and the earth will set up fission in the entire solar system and boom! there goes your galaxy!” And he leaped up and down, trampling on his beard in his joy. “I have destroyed the universe!”


  
Oh, he was happy.


  
“Take the formula home, John, and don’t lose it.” And John took it home and didn’t lose it, for he knew that a scientist was not responsible for the results of his scientific work: there are some who disagree with this idea, and in some universities they are shot, while in others, like the old and famous university where this story takes place, they are merely considered eccentric and perhaps lacking in school spirit. He didn’t lose it, but he showed it to his wife, who looked at the formula and kissed him in delight.


  
This puzzled him but he liked it.


  
Time passed. Graduation day came. John graduated. People cheered. The old and evil professor laughed. McAwful got his picture in the paper, kissing a baby. The baby, no doubt a spy, died. John handed his diploma to his wife. “Put it in a safe place,” he said. “We’re going to destroy the universe this afternoon.” She kissed him again. And off everybody rushed to watch the bomb tested.


  
John and the professor and the bomb sat in a small room in a large tower while John fed the formula into a computer which typed a tape which operated a servomechanism which twirled a tool which made a small machine which the professor placed near the bomb.


  
And McAwful ran around below taking credit for everything including the football team’s record for the last ninety-eight point six years.


  
“Now,” said the professor. “It’s ready. Yeek! Self-perpetuating. One explosion setting off another. Forever! As long as there’s anything left to explode!” And he danced happily on the casing of the bomb. “It goes off in three minutes. Better get to a safe place.” And he doubled over with his evil laughter, for there would be no place anyplace which would not explode along with the bomb. “Come,” he said, and they rushed from the tower, the professor taking great leaps like a vile kangaroo, his great ears flapping in the breeze.


  
“Two minutes,” he cried as they reached the watching crowd. McAwful slung great heaps of mud in all directions to celebrate. John shuddered. John’s wife laughed. “One minute.” screeched the professor. “Oooh.” said John. “Time’s up,” said the professor.


  
“Sizz,” went the bomb. “Click,” and it sat there, not exploding. And the universe continued on its way, not being destroyed. “Spies,” shouted McAwful, and for once he was right, though he didn’t know it.


  
And then John’s wife went over to the president of the old and famous university who was trying to scrape some of McAwful’s mud out of his hair, and she whispered into his dignified ear and he went over to the old and evil and frustrated professor and shook his bewildered hand. “It works.” he said.


  
“Works!” cried the old scholar in anguish.


  
And the president took the formula and spread it out on the ground. “Joy!” he cried. “A perfect defense against atomic bombs. Joy!”


  
“But . . .” said John as his wife drew him aside.


  
“Listen,” she said. “It was a formula to make the fission products set off fission in the surrounding environment, and make those new fission products set off more fission, and so on, wasn’t it? The way a fire in the open air sets fire to anything around it and that new fire spreads out in the same way? Wasn’t it?”


  
“Sure,” said John. “But why didn’t it work?”


  
“Listen,” she said. “What’s the opposite of that? A formula to make the fission products damp out any fission starting around them, the way a fire in a closed room uses up the oxygen and puts itself out along with any other fires in the room.” She smiled. “I simply turned the formula into its opposite.”


  
“But how?” asked John, who now and then forgot his wife was a genius.


  
“Easy,” she said. “I changed all the minuses to plus and all the pluses to minus.” And they ran in happy circles around each other while the old and evil professor writhed on the ground and chewed huge rocks into gravel and McAwful, as soon as he found out what had been invented, took all the credit.


  
THE END



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
. . . Moonshine . . .

  
It is a beautiful day, deep in the Ozark Mountains. The sun hangs motionless in the blue sky, glittering brightly on the shiny copper kettle of a still which nestles in the bushes beside a clearing. Collard greens and black-eyes peas, corn pone and shortening bread, fried chicken and hushpuppies grow wild all through the woods and the clearing. Two gentlemen dressed in overalls, wool hats, and shotguns hover near the still. One of them speaks:


  
Han’ me thet jug a minute, Cousin Zele, Ahhhh. Mighty fine corn. Don’t think, we ever run off a better batch. Maybe jest a tetch more turpentine in the mash. Give her more kick.”


  
“Now, don’t o messin’ with the ingredients, Cousin Clem. Last time you did that the pore ole still turned out champagne for three days. Come near to makin’ us lose our reputation. And you better step out of the clearin’: government man might spot you.


  
“Shucks, Zeke. No revnoover dast to show his face back in these mountings.”


  
“Don’t never trust no revnoover, Cousin Clem. Hear tell now they’re using helicopters to come up looking for stills.”


  
“Thet’s just plum awful of them to do a thing like thet. What’s a helicopter?”


  
“You’re purty ignorant, ain’t you, Clem?”


  
“Shore. What else is there to be? What’s a helicopter?”


  
“Sort of a twirly thing thet flies. Ole revnoo agent, he jest sets up there in his helicopter and he points it this way and he points it thet way and pretty soon he smells the mash. Then all he got to do is follow his nose.”


  
“Golly, Zeke. Shucks. Come near to make me cry, tellin’ me a tale like thet. Han’ me the jug a minute.”


  
“You just done put it down on thet stump n the learin.


  
“So I did. I’ll go get it. Zeke! Looky yander! Is thet one of them there twirlycopters? Up in the sky there? Looky, Cousin Zeke, it’s ashootin’ out fire. It’s acomin’ down in the clearin’. Han’ me my shotgun, Zeke: here comes the government.”


  
“Wait a minute, Clem. Let the revnoover get out. Don’t shoot yet.”


  
“Here he comes, Zeke, here he comes down. Never thought a twirlycopter would look like thet there. He’s openin’ a door, Zeke, he’s a gittin’ out. Kin I shoot him now?”


  
“Where’s your manners, Clem? The code of the hills says you don’t shoot a man until you kin see the whites of his eyes.”


  
“But lookie, Zeke. He ain’t got no whites to his eyes. He’s all over green.”


  
“By heck, so he is. I don’t know what the code of the hills says to do now. Little feller, ain’t he? I never did see a revnoover under four foot tall before, specially not a green,one.”


  
“Hear tell there’s a new administration up Washington way, Zeke. Maybe they all look like thet. Kin I shoot now?”


  
“Wait a minute, Clem. If there’s a new bunch in and they all look like thet . . . Han’ me the jug.”


  
“He sees us, Zeke. He’s a cornin’ this way.”


  
“Iggle iggle iggle.”


  
“What’s he sayin’, Zeke?”


  
“Durned if I know, Clem. Yankee-talk.”


  
“Iggle iggle iggle.”


  
“He’s abowin’ to us, Clem.”


  
“New administration shore is polite.”


  
“He’s apointin’ to the still. Kin I shoot him now?”


  
“Iggle iggle iggle.”


  
“Code of the hills says no. Let’s dump him in the kettle instead.”


  
“Ruin a lot Of good moonshine, Zeke. Remember the time thet ole mounting lion fell into the mash?”


  
“Added flavor, Cousin Clem. Makes it full-bodied and mellow.”


  
“Iggle iggle iggle.”


  
“He’s apointin’ into the sky, Zeke. He’s awavin his arms. He’s amakin’ a speech. He’s a government man, all right. Looky, Zeke. Thet’s four arms he’s awavin.”


  
“Yankees don’t care how silly they look, Clem. Grab him when I count up to three. One . . . one one . . .”


  
““What’s the matter, Zeke?”


  
“Shucks, Clem. Forgot what comes next. Grab him anyway. Now! Dump him in! Quick!”


  
“Iggle iggle iggle.”


  
Splash!


  
“Didn’t weigh much, did he?”


  
“Put the cover on, Cousin Clem. Start the fire agoin!. Hear tell there’s a big square dance down at Widder Hatfield’s. Lets put on our clean overhalls and—go on over.”


  
They leave, sliding down the mountainside amid a small avalanche of limestone and jugs. Night falls. The distant sound of merrymaking-fiddles, whoops, and gunshots—fills the soft night air. The moon rises. Gently the still begins to operate’, the best corn liquor is made by moonlight. “Iggle iggle iggle,” says the still. Silence falls. Daylight comes. So do Zeke and Clem.


  
“Open her up, Cousin Zeke. Let’s take a look and see if she’s done. She’s been acookin’ and astewin’ all night. Hey! What’s thet thing out in the clearin’ ?”


  
“Thet’s thet Yankee’s flyin’ machine, Clem.”


  
“Shucks. I done forgot all about him.”


  
“Me, too. We got to remmember to take his bones out before we set it up in jugs. Customers might complain.”


  
“Reckon we could throw in’ a mite more battery acid and dissolve his bones, Zeke. Open her up.”


  
“Iggle iggle iggle.”


  
“Hey!”


  
“Hey!”


  
“Iggle iggle iggle.”


  
“Look, Zeke, looky. He’s drunk up two hundred gallons of mash. He’s arubbin’ his stomach. He’s agrinnin’ at us.”


  
“Yankees sure are different from what they used to be, Cousin Clem. Never knew one before what could polish off two hundred gallons of mash while it was aboilin.’ Not in one night. Must be the, drinkin’ champion of all Yankeeland. Reach me thet there hatchet, Clem, and I’ll bust open his skull for him.”


  
“I can’t move, Cousin Zeke.”


  
“Neither can I, Cousin Clem.”


  
“He’s ahaulin’ us off to his flyin’ machine.”


  
“He’s afixin’ to carry us off to Washington D.C.”


  
“Goin’ to bury us in a deep cell in the old federal jailhouse.”


  
“He’s abringin’ the still along.”


  
“Evidence. He’s agoin’ to put us on the rockpile.”


  
“Goin’ to fix us up with hard labor for life. Never no corn again. Never no moonshine.”


  
“Sentence us to hard labor. Work: I’ll jes’ die daid.”


  
“He’s ashovin’ us inside. He’s afiddlin’ with the controls. He’s atakin’ us to Washington. D.C. Never no moonshine again till we jest keel over and die amongst them hard-hearted Yankees.


  
It is a beautiful day, deep in the Unpronounceable Mountains. The sun hangs motionless in the purple sky, glittering brightly on the shiny copper kettle of a still which nestles in the red bushes beside a clearing. Worshippers come by, dropping gifts at the feet of the two gods who operate the still, the two gods who create nectar and ambrosia for their adoring people. One of the gods speaks.


  
“Yankees sure like this moonshine, Cousin Clem. Never knew Yankees were such nice folks. Take yourself a sup out of this here jug. I think this is the best batch we ever run off.”


  
“It’s the moon, Cousin Zeke. Corn distills best in the moonlight, and this Washington D.C. is the onliest place I ever seen where they got two moons in the sky at one time.”


  
THE END



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  




OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
PROFESSOR Bickerstaffe panted slightly as he telephoned the editor, for he was bubbling and boiling over with pride in his new discovery. “I have developed a serum.” he said. “If my theories are correct it will be the greatest discovery in the history of mankind. Put this into your paper: two drops of my formula will make a man immortal. You may quote me. I expect to spread immortality over the whole earth. Goodbye. Don’t forget to send photographers.”


  
He sat back in his chair and began to dream delightful dreams, full of fame and riches. He would accept praise, awards, medals; he would walk kneedeep in fields of glory; he would be investigated by congress.


  
This time his announcement was not premature—he was sure of that. Last year he had invented a perpetual motion machine which had stopped after sixteen seconds. The year before he had found part of a flying saucer which turned out to be a 1906 dime with a dent in it. And before that he had developed a baldness cure which ate holes into the skull and turned the brain purple. But now he was sure that the public test of his latest discovery would secure him a life of everlasting bliss.


  
Immortality! His voice trembled whenever he said the word, trembled and grew thick with emotion.


  
A knock on the door: “Good afternoon,” said an elderly gentleman. “My colleagues and I are a voluntary committee dedicated to the preservation of righteousness. We decided to visit you as soon as we were informed of your discovery. I presume the reports are exaggerated?”


  
Professor Bickerstaffe bowed. “The reports were correct,” he said. “Will you step into my laboratory? There is the apparatus which manufactures the distillation. There are my notes. There is the formula—be careful with it, for it is my only copy. And here, sirs, is a beaker full of the liquid itself. I propose to drink it as soon as the photographers arrive. The final test! And then, if my theories are correct—” the wonder of it made his voice grow hoarse “—immortality!!”


  
“Quite so,” said the gentleman. “That is why we have come. And you are sure your theories are correct?”


  
Memories of his past experiments tumbled through Professor Bickerstaffe’s head, but he shoved them out again. “I am sure,” he said.


  
“Very well,” said the gentleman. He entered the laboratory, followed by his assistants. One of them set fire to the stack of notes and poured acid on the ashes, one of them kicked the intricate apparatus to pieces, one of them poured the contents of the beaker down a rat hole, one of them took the paper on which the formula was written and ate it. one of them took a shotgun and killed a crow which happened to be passing by, and the rest of them held Professor Bickerstaffe firmly in his chair until the laboratory was ruined.


  
“Oh, well,” said the professor, “it probably wouldn’t have worked anyhow; but I don’t see what you gentlemen had against my trying to spread immortality over the world.”


  
“Spread what?”


  
“Immortality.”


  
“Immortality!” cried the gentleman. “I thought you said immorality.” He led his assistants to the door. “Go ahead with your work and remember to speak more clearly in the future.”


  
So Professor Bickerstaffe went ahead with his work, but he gave up trying to find the formula for immortality. He concentrated on cubing the sphere, instead, and he never forgot to speak clearly in the future.


  
There was a family of rats living in the rat hole down which the contents of the beaker had been poured, and they never forgot, either.


  
Not ever.



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
The Censors: A Sad Allegory

  
It has been too long since TP Caravans funny, clever prose appeared here, and we are happy to say that there is M*O*R*E* yet to come. Wheel Read on.


  
IT WAS DONE! IT WAS DONE! Eight drops of green liquid glittered in the test tube. It was Professor Mangus life work: he had spent sixty-three years distilling those eight drops.


  
His voice was quivering with excitement as he called the Boston Evening Purist. “Tell your science editor,” he croaked, “that I have created a serum that will create immortality. Immortality for the world!”


  
Soon three small men, all dressed in grey, entered his laboratory. One of them knocked the professor down and sat on him. One of them tore up the only copy of the formula. One of them poured the serum down a convenient rat hole.


  
“Let that be a lesson to you,” they told him.


  
“But why! Why! Now the secret of immortality is lost forever.”


  
They stared at him coldly. “Immortality? You must speak more clearly. We understood you to say immorality.”


  
They walked out, closing the door behind them.


  
And that is the end of this story.


  
But down in the rat hole there lived a rat. A story about him would be a long story. Very long.”



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
The Court of Tartary

  
The name of TP Caravan, too long absent from Science Fiction, returns now on the byline of a rather intriguing story. Concerning its author, our thrall, Pettifogle submits the brief information that “Mr. Caravan is an extremely shy man. He is on the faculty of the College of the City of New York, and is an authority on 18th Century English literature. Once he was an aerial gunner, but now he’s too fat.” Herewith his account of a Johnsonian scholar in a Kafkaesque situation.


  
PROFESSOR DUNBAR BAWLED into the cowboy’s ear, and the cowpoke slapped him across the rump with the end of his rope, shouting, “Git up, thar.” And the professor bawled again and began to run.


  
Edward Harrison Dunbar, B.A., M.A., Ph.D., L.L.D., member of the Modem Language Association and authority on eighteenth century literature, was not prepared for the situation in which he found himself: it had never been mentioned by any of the writers of the Age of Reason.


  
Kafka, of course, had treated the subject, but Professor Dunbar seldom read anything written after 1798.


  
“Classic restraint and control,” Professor Dunbar used to tell his classes: “these are the essentials of the pure style.”


  
Now he ran bellowing across the dusty plains of Texas.


  
“Pure English is the best English,” he used to say. “Cleanse your speech of colloquialism. Put limits to your imagination, restrain your fancy, remain within the rules. Speak with clarity and precision.”


  
And now he bawled at another cowboy and the cowboy flapped his hat and yipped at him. Professor Dunbar couldn’t help it; his instincts sent him running wall-eyed back to the herd.


  
He had awakened this morning with a vague feeling that something was wrong. Something was, of course. He had been turned into a steer. But he had always been a man who woke up easily and gradually, and as he lay in a gentle half-doze, waiting for the smell of coffee to tell him that breakfast was ready, he tried, without any anxiety, to account for the uneasy feeling. His most recently published paper, the one proving that Boswell was the true author of Ossian, had been attacked by several fools in the scholarly journals, but he had his refutation prepared: it wasn’t that. The college magazine had been suspended again for another four years, but that happened after almost every issue: it wasn’t that. His lectures for the rest of the term were fully set up: that was all right. His children weren’t in trouble, his wife wasn’t in debt, and he hadn’t been too drunk at the faculty club for several months.


  
Smelling coffee at last, he decided that his uneasiness was just the aftermath of some forgotten dream, and he opened his eyes. He came to his feet with a bawl of amazement: he had been sleeping among cows.


  
His first thought was that this was some student prank. The undergraduate body became more ingenious and unbearable each year; in Professor Dunbar’s ideal university, no student under sixty years old would ever be admitted. But even the most brilliant and sadistic freshman would be unable to . . .


  
His next thought was that he was insane, but he brushed that thought aside as easily as he brushed a fly from his back: he knew perfectly well that he wasn’t insane. He wasn’t insane because he was a scholar. He was a sane scholar, and he mentally recited the first eighteen verses of Gray’s Elegy to prove it. But he was still surrounded by cows, and a dozen yards away a group of cowboys were drinking coffee out of thick china mugs.


  
His third thought was that this was a dream.


  
His fourth thought told him that he knew it wasn’t a dream.


  
One of the cowboys rolled a cigarette, and Professor Dunbar’s mind stopped its hysterical stuttering. He bawled out an appeal for help and started picking his way through the sleeping animals toward the men. Having spent his life in a university town, he was rather frightened by the nearness of the other steers. Roused by his bellowing, the rest of the herd came to its feet. They were all around him, nervous, bawling. He was frightened enough by his predicament, and his fear spread to them and theirs to him. Frantic, he tried to push his way through the herd. His eyes rolled, his tail lashed out, his voice rose in terror.


  
Professor Dunbar was spooked.


  
The herd stampeded; he stampeded with it. He got one foot into the bucket full of hot coffee and he got a hat flapped in his face and somebody shot a gun off behind his back and a thunderclap of panic burst within his head.


  
He ran and he ran until he couldn’t run any more, and even then he kept on running. And even as he ran he wondered if he couldn’t prove that Edward Young was the true author of the third book of Gulliver’s Travels, because he knew that if he stopped thinking scholarly thoughts about the eighteenth century he would have to admit that he had turned into an animal. So as he ran he considered the evidence turned up by the publication of the Tickell papers and the discovery of Swift’s old laundry lists and Night Thoughts and the graveyard poets and Gray’s Elegy and the lowing herd winds slowly o’er the lea, and he had to admit that he was an animal.


  
He thought he was a cow because he had always thought of herds as made up of cows: actually, not that it made any difference, he was a steer.


  
And then somebody on a horse was running alongside of him, pressing him in, slowing him down, calming him, turning him in a circle. Finally he was milling with the other steers, slowly going round and round on the dusty plains, and then the whole herd was moving peacefully back across the ground over which they had stampeded. Professor Dunbar was ashamed of himself. A scholar is a man who is trained carefully to consider every aspect of the most vexing question, and then to deliver a dispassionate answer; and here he had run away in terror from a puzzling situation, run away bellowing like an undergraduate. Not only that, he had led the whole valuable herd with him, and the exercise had no doubt run at least three pounds off each animal. Estimating the herd at—he tossed his head up to look—at about a thousand cows, that was three thousand pounds: at a dollar a pound he had cost the owner of the herd about three thousand dollars. He was a professor: three thousand dollars was almost an inconceivable sum to him.


  
A dollar a pound! For meat! A cow wasn’t meat until it was slaughtered! They kill cows and eat them! Horror leaped upon his back like a swarm of wasps.


  
This time the stampede didn’t last more than a few minutes: the animals were nearly exhausted.


  
Panting and snorting, Professor Dunbar took stock of the situation. Blind panic was certainly not the answer. First and most important, he had to let these cowboys know who he was; after that he had to find some way of returning to his university. Perhaps some of the people in the biology department, with their cyclotrons and atoms and things could return him to his normal shape: he knew no more about biology than most biologists knew about eighteenth century periodical literature. Or perhaps the faculty of comparative religion would be the people to consult . . . but first he had to tell these cowboys. He slowly made his way to the edge of the herd and trotted up to one of the men on horseback.


  
Professor Dunbar bawled into the cowboy’s ear, and the cowboy slapped him across the rump with the end of his rope, shouting, “Git up, th ar.” And the professor bawled again and began to run. Couldn’t they see? What was the matter with them? And now he bellowed at another cowboy and the cowboy flapped his hat and yipped at him. Professor Dunbar couldn’t help it; his instincts sent him running walleyed back to the herd.


  
He was an intelligent man, and he knew how to think directly to the point of a problem. “Sir, if a man find himself set down in the court of Tartary, he can make himself understood, if but his mind be put in order.” He reminded himself of this comfortable eighteenth century doctrine as he snorted up the thick Texas dust, forgetting the reply to this dogmatic statement: “The Cham of Tartary is a fool, Sir, and passes his days conglobulated with concubines. Sir, no gentleman will ever make himself understood to a Tartar, a North Briton, or any other gaudy barbarian.” And so this steer, pacing slowly with the herd, began to put his mind in order. There was no point in approaching his difficulty through the scientific method: he knew no science. There was no help for him in metaphysics: he had cleared his mind of Kant. Nor could the classics aid him: he had read Ovid, of course, and the Golden Ass, but he didn’t see how they bore on his problem. And—he hated to admit it—nobody in the eighteenth century seemed to have wondered what would happen to a scholar who woke up and found himself a cow. All right. That left only his own experience to fall back on. But, being a professor, he had never had any experiences.


  
It was too bad.


  
But wait—he had once marked a paper in which some student had treated the problem of communicating with intelligent life on other planets. (He had turned the paper over to the dean, with the recommendation that the student be disciplined.) What conclusion had the paper reached? He tossed his head and bawled in the effort to remember. Mathematics. Yes. Mathematical laws would be the same everywhere, and everyone would recognize them. He was safe: all he had to do was display his knowledge of mathematics.


  
The herd was slowing down now, coming to a stop beside a railroad embankment. A slowly creaking windmill pumped water into a long ditch. But did he know any mathematics? He drank thirstily; stampeding was dry work. Isaac Newton, of course, and the law of gravity. But what was the law of gravity? How did it go? He had seen it once. Another steer shoved him away from the water.


  
E=mc2.


  
Somehow that didn’t look right. It didn’t have the true Newtonian swing to it. And hadn’t somebody, some modem fellow, come along and abolished gravity? Sadly he shook his head. There was no stability in the world today. He bellowed in despair.


  
Was that a train whistle? Chicago. The stockyards. The knacker’s hammer. Death. We use everything but the squeal—but that was pigs. How much beef had he eaten during his life? How much cowhide in his wallets and suitcases?


  
Fear jogged his brain. He had studied mathematics once as an undergraduate, but it had been math for students taking the liberal arts course, and nobody had paid any attention to it. Still, he must remember something. After all, he had taken the course three times before he had managed to sit behind somebody who was able to do the work when the exams came around. Wasn’t there something about triangles?


  
It was a train whistle, no doubt about it. He could see the white puff of steam down the track.


  
Yes! You draw a triangle with little boxes on the sides. That means something in mathematics. He was saved! Quickly he jostled his way through the herd, meekly he approached the cowboys. He must remember to be gentle so they wouldn’t be afraid of him. He bobbed his head. He tried to smile ingratiatingly.


  
With his right fore hoof he scraped out an awkward triangle. It was difficult to coordinate; he found his leg wouldn’t move easily in the patterns he wanted. Finally, however, he finished and looked up, breathing heavily. Nobody had even noticed him.


  
He tried to nudge one of the cowboys gently, but he had forgotten his horns. With a shrill yip, the man flung his ten gallon hat into the professor’s face. Confused and frightened, he dashed back to the herd. There was an odd feeling of safety in being with the others, and he grazed almost contentedly on the trampled grass. Soon somebody would see his diagrams and realize what had happened.


  
He moved slowly with the rest of the herd, feeling the warm sun beat down through the dust on his back. Now and then he whisked away a fly with his tail. In just a little while he would be saved, but now he let a pleasant lassitude fill him, the way it did when he used to browse slowly among the books in the cool darkness of the more remote stacks in the university library, back in the eighteenth century section where even the graduate students seldom wandered unless they were lost. He munched slowly on the grass in front of him. Sleepily he wondered if Swift had really been deaf, or had he just been pretending? Dreamily he chewed his cud. If he could get a grant he’d go to England next summer and hunt around for papers to prove his theory that Sir Robert Walpole was the true author of the Beggars Opera. He moved a little faster as the herd became restless.


  
Suddenly there was a high wooden fence in front of him. He brushed along it, hemmed in by the other cattle. What was happening? Throwing his head back, he bawled in bewilderment. Then there was a fence on both sides of him, wood under his feet. Up a narrow ramp. What? He was being loaded into a cattle car.


  
The ramp drummed hollowly as he trotted up it.


  
He wouldn’t! He wouldn’t go! Where were the people who were going to save him by mathematics? Stopping on the ramp, he looked back: the herd stretched out behind him. They had trampled over his careful diagrams. He bellowed in protest. A cowboy was leaning over the side of the fence, reaching toward him with a stick. Professor Dunbar leaped forward in uncontrollable anguish: he hadn’t expected an electric shock. The door of the cattle car slammed shut behind him. He was crowded in, almost unable to move. He stamped his hoofs and bawled as loudly as he could, and all the other steers bawled with him; the noise of the protesting herd rose above the rumble of the wheels all the way from Texas to Chicago.


  
Chicago! There was a university in Chicago! There would be scholars. Deans, full professors, associate professors, assistant professors, tutors, instructors, readers, lecturers, graduate assistants, fellows: all sorts and conditions of men.


  
There it was now. He looked up at the tall buildings. His heart leaped up as he beheld Chicago in the sky. The train clanked and grumbled its way into the stockyards. Here? He had vaguely supposed they would lead the cattle down the main street between the station and the packing houses. He looked anxiously out over the cattle-pens. No scholars here. Not even a sophomore. Not even a football player. Only innumerable small fenced-off pens and a series of tall buildings from which—he shuddered—came the bawling of frightened cattle and the faint stink of death,.


  
The doors slid open: he was shoved down an incline as the cattle rushed out of the car. Into a pen. Quick! Quick! He had to get away. He pawed the ground and bellowed. It did no good: all the cattle were pawing the ground and bellowing. Quick! Someone opened the gate of the pen. He was forced out into a runway. So soon? Where were they going? Single file, they trotted into one of the buildings. Up a ramp, another ramp, still another. He bellowed for help. Still higher. Cattle were screaming all around him.


  
And then they weren’t going upward any more. The concrete floor clicked under his hoofs as he followed the steer in front. Bright electric lights shone down. No more concrete now: he walked on sawdust mixed with blood. Thump! The steer he was following collapsed; the floor tilted; the body slid away. A man with a sledge hammer stood above the runway, waiting for him to move forward.


  
This time no electric shocks were going to budge him. He braced himself firmly on three legs, then began to scrape at the floor with his hoof. No mathematics this time: he was going to write out his predicament. He was proud of his self-possession as he remembered to write backward and upside down so the man could read it clearly in the bloody sawdust:


  
I AM NOT A COW. I AM PROFESSOR DUNBAR. PLEASE DO NOT KILL ME.


  
And then he trotted forward to accept their apologies.


  
“How was work today, Eddie?” The paymaster shoved the voucher through the small window.


  
“OK. Nuttin new. I had another of them crazy animals, know what I mean? The kind that sort of dances in front of you afore you whack em.” Laboriously he scrawled his X on the dotted line. “That’s five so far this month.”



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
Blind Date

  
TP Caravan’s last story here (THE COURT OF TARTARY, Dec. 1963) concerned a Johnsonian scholar victimized by an illiterate stock-yard slaughterer. His newest is a time-travel story, and if there is a lesson to be found in its wry humor, it is perhaps that the high-school dropout may yet inherit the earth.


  
“THIS IS A GREAT MOMENT FOR science.”


  
“Sure,” said the young man. “My girl says she’s proud of me.”


  
“And well she may be. Harry Congreve is a name that will be famous for thousands of years.”


  
“That’s my name. That’s me.”


  
“Are you ready?”


  
“Sure.” He strapped himself in. “Her name’s Honey Lou. Wait till I tell her I’m going to be famous. Wow! She’s real sweet when she wants to be. Usually she says I’m a creep.”


  
“Never mind that now,” said the old man. “Don’t forget to take notes and keep your tape recorder going.”


  
“She’s from the south. You-all, she says.”


  
“Can’t you forget your girl for a minute? I have some final instructions for you.”


  
“Forget Honey Lou, professor?


  
My little old Honey Lou that’s going to be so proud of me? I got her picture right here to take into the future. That’s her hiding behind the magnolia bush.”


  
“Now listen,” said the professor. “Please listen. This is important. We don’t know how far ahead in time you’ll be going. Maybe the people will be so advanced they won’t speak English. In that case I want you to draw diagrams for them. Show them you’re intelligent. Mathematics: triangles and tentacles and that sort of rubbish. Yes! Show them how the square of the sum of something is equal to each other.”


  
“Jeez, professor, I’m not a mathematician. I’m an anthropologist, sort of. I mean I would be if I hadn’t flunked out.”


  
“Draw culture patterns then. What do I care? Just let them know you can reason.”


  
“OK. I wish I could take my Honey Lou with me.”


  
“On the other hand, they may have reverted to savagery. Here’s a bag of beads: give them presents. Here’s a deck of cards: do tricks for them. Maybe they’ll think you’re a god.”


  
“Me? Wow!”


  
“They may be hostile. Here’s a gun.”


  
“Hey! I don’t know if I . . .”


  
“The important thing is to fit in with them. Learn all you can; learn everything. That’s important. I wish I could go myself instead of sending a rattlebrained lab assistant.”


  
He began to unstrap himself. “I don’t mind. If you really . . .”


  
The old man’s big hand shoved him back into the seat. “No, my boy. I must stay behind to find out what went wrong if you don’t get back alive. Quickly now! The condensers are charging. Prepare yourself. Here’s a ham sandwich. Here’s a knife. Here’s a flashlight. Yes! Remember, we can’t tell how they’ll be dressed. Get into the kind of costume they’re wearing as quick as you can; you’ll be too conspicuous if you stay in these clothes.”


  
“How?”


  
“How what, my boy?”


  
“How am I suppose to get their kind of clothing?”


  
“Here’s a blackjack.”


  
“I wish I’d talked this over more with Honey Lou.”


  
“You’ve got to remember this. Get back to the machine in half an hour. It’s most important. We’ve got to retrieve it then. If you aren’t in it you’ll be stranded in the future and you’ll never see your girl friend again.”


  
“Hey!”


  
“I didn’t tell you before because I didn’t want to worry you. It’s all right. Nothing to be nervous about. Try to bring some artifact back with you, something for science. Yes! An article from the future. What a wonderful thing this is, what a wonderful day. I hope you find some inspirational thought to carry with you. Farewell, my boy. Keep your tape recorder going.”


  
“Honey Lou!”


  
Lightning flashed; thunder rumbled; the professor jumped; the time machine disappeared.


  
It seemed to Harry that he was noplace. Frightened, he sat strapped in the small chair, clutching the bright clinking beads and the gun in one trembling hand He didn’t know how long he was noplace, but suddenly he was someplace.


  
Lots of people surrounded him. Voices babbled. Bright lights. Dizzy and confused, he stepped out of the machine, letting the straps fall to the floor behind him. It was all going wrong. No chance to change clothes: everybody had seen him materialize. All wrong. Time travel makes you sick at your stomach: that was the first discovery. The vast room whirled around him. Look out for the savages. He held the beads over his head.


  
“Pretty beads,” he said. “Me friend. Me come from the past Many suns, many moons ago. See the pretty beads. Maybe me God.” He shook the beads and the gun went off.


  
Somebody squealed and somebody said, “Your accent’s all wrong, old man,” and somebody kissed him (Oh, Honey Lou, Honey Lou), and somebody grabbed the beads and shouted: “Genuine Woolworth! How clever of you.”


  
He was in a large room, and the room was full of people. Something was wrong somewhere: everybody was dressed in ordinary clothing. “I’m from the past,” he shouted. “Look.” he held up the slate. What should he do with it? He drew a triangle. “See? From the past.”


  
He rocked back under a wave of applause. The girl kissed him again. “Wonderful!” she cried. “Is that a real flashlight?” He handed it to her and she squealed with delight. “I’ll bet you win the coffeepot,” she said.


  
He felt sicker.


  
“What year is this?” he asked. “How far have I come?”


  
“Isn’t he wonderful?” asked the girl. She giggled. “You be Holy Harry Congreve and I’ll be Holy Honey Lou.”


  
“Everybody listen,” he shouted.


  
“Please! How do you know my name? Tell me what year this is.”


  
“He’s marvelous,” they shouted. “Give him the coffeepot.” They joined hands and danced around him.


  
“Honey Lou!” He sat down on the floor and began to blubber.


  
“What’s the matter with him?”


  
“He’s drunk.”


  
“Good for him. So am I.”


  
“Wasn’t it the eighteenth century when everybody got drunk?”


  
“Don’t be picayune.”


  
“I thought Syor Alexander was going to get the coffeepot, but he doesn’t have a chance now. Did you see how well this chap worked his materialization?”


  
“Where’s Syor Alexander?”


  
“That’s him over there in the grey business suit with the New York Times under his arm.”


  
“Let s all get drunk.”


  
“Sure.”


  
They picked Harry up and lay him on a couch.


  
“Stay here, old man,” they said. “You’re liable to get trampled when the dancing starts. Can you rhumba?”


  
He raised himself weakly on one arm. “Do they really rhumba in the future?”


  
They laughed. “You’re perfect,” they said. “Perfect.”


  
The girl who had kissed him rushed back. “He’s even got a tape recorder going,” she squealed. “Isn’t he wonderful? He’s the best Holy Harry Congreve I ever saw.” She shook a finger at him. “Now you just lie there and get drunk. Don’t say another word. You might spoil it. I’ll have drinks sent over to you. Oh, you should hear Syor Alexander raving! He thought the coffeepot was his for sure this time.”


  
Harry lay back and let the world whirl around him. It was all wrong, all wrong. Was this the future? Arthur Godfrey leered at him from a television set in one corner; a tattered Sears Roebuck catalogue lay in the magazine rack; everybody was dressed the way people always dressed. Somebody was playing a joke on him, something had gone wrong. The professor would be awful sore. Jeez. Honey Lou wouldn’t even speak to him. He grabbed a drink. He grabbed another. And another. Honey Lou, Honey Lou. All wrong. Down the hatch. Girl said she’d be Honey Lou but she wasn’t Honey Lou. Funny way they talked. Funny accents. He grabbed a bottle from somebody’s hand. No future at all. Still inna present. Hey! He was supposed to bop somebody with his blackjack, take their clothes. He lunged to his feet, wavering soggily.


  
“Hurray,” somebody yelled. “Here’s the winner,” and handed him a coffeepot.


  
“Hurray,” he answered. “Buncha drunks, rotten ol’ ordinary drunks.” He swung out with his left hand and tapped somebody over the head with the ham sandwich that had inexplicably come out of his pocket. Clutching the coffeepot, he fell back into the time machine and sat there while somebody made a speech and somebody applauded and somebody kissed him.


  
Lightning flashed, thunder rumbled, the professor jumped, the time machine reappeared in the laboratory. Harry made his second discovery: time travel sobers you up.


  
“Well,” said the professor. “What have I wrought?”


  
“Huh?”


  
“Never mind, my boy. Tell me all about it. What’s that in your hand?”


  
He flung back the straps. “You fixed me up good with my little Honey Lou. You and your big experiment! What’s she going to say when I tell her I didn’t go into the future at all? She’ll say I’m a creep again.”


  
The professor stared at him.


  
“What do you mean by saying you didn’t go into the future? Of course you went into the future! My reputation depends on it. Now wipe that lipstick off your face and tell me what happened.”


  
“Nothing happened. I ended up at a party, that’s all. Some party somewhere. It wasn’t anywheres near the future. They gave me that coffeepot because I won it somehow.”


  
“Won it?” the old man looked carefully down on the coffeepot. The veins stood out on his forehead. “This is just an ordinary piece of junk.” He rushed to the time machine. “Let’s see what the tape recorder says. You may be crazy but it . . .”


  
“Squawk!” said the tape recorder. “Pretty beads. Me friend. Me come from the past. Many suns, many moons ago. See the pretty beads. Maybe me God Bang!”


  
“That’s when the gun went off,” Harry said. “Have I still got lipstick on my face?” Going to a microscope, he tried to see himself in the small mirror. “Honey Lou wouldn’t like it if I came back with lipstick on me. Can I have a handkerchief?” He groped in his pockets.


  
“Do they really rhumba in the future?” asked the tape recorder.


  
“It won’t come off,” muttered Harry. He scrubbed furiously.


  
“Buncha drunks,” yelled the recorder, “rotten ol’ drunks.” There was a dull thud. “Passed out,” said a voice from the loudspeaker. “Wonderful,” said another voice. “I never saw a Harry Congreve like him. Did you see how well he did the incredulity? Magnificent! Lord, was Alexander furious. He’s been practicing ever since last Harry day, but this chap left him several parsecs in the rear.”


  
“Do you think acid might take it off my nose?” Harry asked.


  
“Quiet!” shouted the tape recorder. “Here’s our hostess.” The rumpus died down to a low babble. “Ladies and gentlemen,” said a new voice, “it is an honor and a privilege to award this rare old coffeepot to this unconscious young man who has so splendidly come among us. Never have I seen so fine a Holy Harry Congreve, and I have seen many a fine one. I . . .” The machine started to curse bitterly. “Throw him out,” it shouted. Brief noises of battle sounded. The hostess’ voice returned. “I am sure we will all pardon our dear Syor Alexander,” she said. “He, too, has gone to much trouble to give us a Harry Congreve for this Harryday, but this other young man, with his ingenious materialization and his genuine relics, has far surpassed anything I have ever seen.” There was a brief flutter of applause.


  
“The Harry Congreve Society has met once a decade for the last six hundred and eighty years to commemorate the tragic experiment in which this young man disappeared into the mists of time, and to perpetuate his memory by recreating his era as best we can. Harry Congreve went heroically into the future where he never arrived, but we, who are the future, have given him what small honor it is in our power to bestow.”


  
Harry bent to the small mirror, scrubbing furiously at the lipstick on his face. “Honey Lou, Honey Lou,” he sobbed.


  
The professor’s big hands were slowly denting the coffeepot as he listened to the squeaking voice.


  
“Harry Congreve failed, but it was not his failure. No! Rather it was the failure of the detestable scientist whose name has been stricken from all our records, this poor deluded ignorant man who sent our heroic and noble patron forward into nothingness.”


  
The coffeepot broke in half.


  
“Holy Harry Congreve failed, but his name goes marching on, and with it goes the proud name of Holy Honey Lou.


  
“And so it is with pride and delight that I award this coffeepot to the finest Holy Harry Congreve any of us have ever seen. Don’t wake him up. Let him sleep it off.” The tape squawked and stopped.


  
“What’s up?” Harry asked. “I thought I heard somebody say something about my Honey Lou. Don’t you feel well, professor?”


  
The old man’s voice was calm. “When you got there, they thought you were impersonating yourself. They thought I failed.”


  
“Who else could I be but me?”


  
“They thought I sent you into the future where you never arrived.”


  
“Huh?”


  
“And you arrived at a ceremony commemorating your nonarrival.”


  
“Got to get this lipstick off.”


  
“No doubt the future is full of those wretched ceremonies. All praising you. All cursing me. A new religion. So when you landed in the future you were attracted to one of the ceremonies. An interesting phenomenon: time travelers are pulled toward certain events. I’ll call it temporal induction. Yes! I’ll prepare a paper . . .” He broke off.


  
“I can’t announced my results,” he said. “I don’t have any. Deluded and ignorant, they called me.”


  
“They better not go calling my Honey Lou names.”


  
“Sit down, son. You must be tired.”


  
“Hey! I don’t want to sit in the time machine again. Hey!”


  
“One chance to clear my name. There’s still a charge on the condensers.”


  
“Hey! Look out! That’s the switch that . . .”


  
Bang! Went the time machine, disappearing. The professor jumped; the power supply melted into a pool of molten metal.


  
Harry was noplace. Then he was someplace. He was sick.


  
The sun was large and red, and the sunlight was dim. You could see the stars through it. There was something wrong with the way they looked. A cold wind blew across the ancient rocks.


  
Little people with large heads danced around him.


  
“Yop!” One of them cried. “I bet you win old here coffeepot. You most best Holy Harry Congreve ever we seed, and I be play your Honey Lou.”



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  




OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
ONCE upon a time there lived a young student whose name was John. He was a genius, but nobody knew it because he never did his homework. Like all geniuses, John was absent-minded and somewhat impractical, so when he saw a large heap of diamonds on the old professor’s desk one day, he scooped them up without thinking and used them for decorations on a machine which he was building.


  
This was a mistake, for the machine was a perpetual motion machine, and it worked.


  
“Ha!” screamed the old professor, who hated John, “Ha! Now you have done it. Now I will have you expelled and imprisoned for sure. You have used up the school’s research fund for the next ninety-eight point six years. You have bankrupted the science department and you have not done the assigned homework. You have married my daughter and you have made me your deadly enemy.”


  
Now this was not quite fair, for John had not used the diamonds on purpose, and he would have done the homework if he had remembered it, and there was no reason why he shouldn’t have married the professor’s daughter, for he loved her and she loved him, and the professor was a deadly enemy to everybody.


  
“You are an evil man,” said John, and this was true. The professor was a little man, the size and shape of a barrel full of beetles, and he would have looked like a furious frog if his ears had been smaller. He taught science at the old and famous university which John attended. He always had egg stains on his collar and sometimes he had them in his hair. He was a very old and evil scholar, and he hated John just as hard as he could Kate, for John had indeed married his daughter, and it is a great presumption for a student who never does his homework to marry a professor’s daughter, especially if this daughter is the most beautiful girl ever to be seen on the campus, or anywhere else, for that matter. Evil old professors always have beautiful young daughters: this is a law of nature.


  
The day John and his daughter were married, he came over to them and smiled his most smoothly smirking smile and said, “Bless you, my children. I will have you expelled as soon as possible. Goodbye.”


  
And now his chance had come.


  
John stood helplessly in the laboratory and looked down at his whirling perpetual motion machine. The diamonds glittered as they spun by. The professor dashed from the room as fast as his spindly legs would carry him. John didn’t know what to do. He was still watching his machine when the professor came back with the dean of men and the president of the college and the board of trustees and the governor of the state and the warden of a nearby prison, and a dark and dirty prison it was, full of dungeons and dank dampness and despair.


  
“That’s him!” cried the professor, for he was a scientist and not a grammarian; “Expel him and arrest him and take him away. He has used a billion dollars worth of the schools diamonds in his perpetual motion machine.” And he danced up and down in an evil little jig.


  
“Wait,” said the president of the college, for like everyone else, he hated the evil old professor and liked John, “Allow me three seconds to think. Please stop dancing.”


  
So the evil old professor stopped dancing and the college president thought for three seconds, and he was a smart man, for he came up with the solution. “John,” he said, “It is simple. Stop your machine and take out the diamonds and give them back. We will not have to arrest you and expel you and take you away. It is true, you have invented a perpetual motion machine instead of doing your regularly assigned homework, but we will permit you to scrub the blackboards for a week and thus expiate your delinquency.”


  
“Huh?” said the board of trustees, none of whom had ever finished high school. “Whatever it is, we’re for it,” for they hated the evil old professor, too; and this was the first time in ninety-eight point six years that the board of trustees had agreed with the president of the old and famous university.


  
“But you must give back every one of the diamonds,” cried the warden, “or I will have to throw you in my darkest dungeon until you die, and the rats eat you.”


  
“But John,” said the governor of the state, “what’s the matter?” for he saw John leaning unhappily on one of the laboratory tables. “Why don’t you stop the machine and take out the diamonds?”


  
Now the evil old professor shrieked a shriek that shattered two window panes, and he leaped into the middle of the laboratory and spun around happily on one toe and did three back-flips. “Ha!” he screamed. “He can’t stop the machine and take out the diamonds and give them back, for it is a perpetual motion machine and it will never stop until the end of time, never ever ever.” And he leaped to the blackboard and gave a lecture on the nature of time and the fourth dimension and many other interesting things.


  
“Who is this Entropy?” said the trustees to each other. “Does he play football? What is the Brownian Movement? Is it good or bad? How about Molecular Motion? Is it anything like Backfield in Motion?” And they nodded their heads as if they understood.


  
“Take him away!” screamed the professor. “Place him in your slimiest cell and let the rats eat him, for he can never get back the diamonds until the end of time.”


  
“Couldn’t you wait?” asked John.


  
“Away with him!” cried the professor.


  
“Does he play football?” asked the trustees.


  
“No.”


  
“Away with him,” they cried.


  
“Does he vote yet?” asked the governor.


  
“No.”


  
“Away with him!”


  
“Does he have an A average?” asked the dean of men.


  
“He doesn’t even do his homework.”


  
“Away with him!”


  
“Can he do card tricks?” asked the warden.


  
“No.”


  
“Away with him!” and his eyes began to glitter and he crept toward John, softly, like a cat, and he took a pair of handcuffs from his pocket.


  
“Wait!” cried John. “I can get them! I’ll build myself a time machine and go to the end of time when the whirling will have stopped and I’ll bring back the diamonds.” The warden fell back and put away his handcuffs, for this simple solution had not occurred to him.


  
“I will give you three days,” he said. “If you do not have the diamonds by the end of three days I will throw you into my deepest dungeon and let the rats nibble away your ears.”


  
“Agreed,” said John.


  
“Ha!” screamed the evil old professor. “John, you are lost, for a time machine is an impossibility. To have motion you must have both time and distance, for without distance you can have no place to move to. and without time you can have no rate of motion, no speed.” He grinned horribly. “Time is motion and motion is time and that is all you know and all you need to know. Ha! There will be no motion at the end of time. You will be trapped immovably once you arrive. Not a molecule will stir.” And he laughed, and his laughter was like the sound of bones breaking.


  
John leaned against a desk, looking down sadly at his whirling perpetual motion machine. “I know an impossibility when I see one,” he said. “Take me away, for I cannot build a time machine, but first let me say goodbye to my wife.”


  
The warden wiped a tear from the corner of his eye, for he was a good man at heart. “I have given you three days,” he said, “and I never go back on my word. You may try everything you can think of for three days, but I do not think you will succeed. I suggest you learn some card tricks to while away the long, long hours you will spend in prison. Good bye, John.” And he went away.


  
John looked down at his invention. He couldn’t get out the diamonds while it was moving, and it would move until the end of time. He couldn’t break it, because it was built strongly enough to last forever, and he couldn’t dissolve it in the professor’s universal solvent, because that would dissolve the diamonds, too. There was no way. It would run and run while he was in jail and the rats would eat him.


  
“John,” shouted the professor, “You are beaten. Go home to your wife and tell her she will starve in the streets and the snow because I will not ask her into my house again.” And he leaped up and down in his evil joy and flung a flask full of molten tungsten at a little bird which was hopping along the window sill outside the laboratory, but he missed it. “Tell her to teach you card tricks!” he cried.


  
SO John went home and asked his wife to teach him some card tricks, but she didn’t know any.


  
“Don’t feel badly about it,” John said. “I don’t really need to know any card tricks. I don’t suppose I’ll have to spend over seventy years in the cruel, cold, clammy dungeon, anyway. I can get a pet rat and teach him to beg for my crusts. The time will fly, and I’ll soon be dead.”


  
Now, John’s wife was not a stupid girl. In fact, she was a genius, too; and when she heard him talking in this manner, she realized that something was wrong.


  
“Is something wrong, John?” she asked, and he told her what was wrong.


  
“Oh, my,” she said, and John agreed.


  
The machine would not stop until the end of time.


  
It was rugged.


  
But on the third day, as the warden approached John with a pair of handcuffs, and as the professor was bouncing up and down for joy and celebrating with great swallows of hydro fluoric acid, and as the trustees were out scouting for a new football team, John reached into his pocket. “Wait,” he said, and with a great gesture he emptied it on the desk.


  
The warden looked. The professor looked. John looked.


  
On the desk, blinking in the afternoon sunlight, lay two trout flies, a marble, a set of keys, three postage stamps, half an orange, a hemisected earthworm (Lumbricus Terrestrius), a dozen test tubes, an answer sheet for next week’s examination, and a lettuce and tomato sandwich. There was also a deck of cards.


  
“Fiddle-dee-dee,” said John. “Wrong pocket.” He reached into the other one and pulled out a handful of diamonds. “Here,” he said. “They’re all here.”


  
“It’s a cheat!” screamed the professor. “That machine would never stop, not ever ever until the end of time and the rats were going to nibble on your toes in the dungeon?” He leaped up and down in his rage.


  
“True,” said John. “It was simple. I merely stopped time in the vicinity of the machine?”


  
“No?” shouted the old and evil professor. “No! No! Impossible.” And he leaped up and down until the floor began to crack under the impact of his furious heels. “How? How?”


  
“There was no trouble at all,” said John. “You told me that there was no molecular motion at the end of time?”


  
“True, true!”


  
“What is the record for the high _ jump in this state?” asked the warden. “I think the professor is about to beat it,” and this was true, for his pointed head was beginning to make cracks in the ceiling.


  
“Well,” said John, “If that were true, then there would be no time where there was no molecular motion, and in your class in Thermodynamics I learned that heat was caused by the motion of molecules: take away the heat and you have no motion: take away the motion and you have no time?” He looked at the professor happily. “I simply invented a refrigerator to cool my perpetual motion machine to absolute zero?”


  
“Some witch has told you, some witch has told you,” cried the old and evil professor, and he leaped up so hard that he burst right through the floor on his way down and fell smash! into the locker room below and injured three bookies and a football player.


  
John leaned over and shouted down the hole. “Come back up,” he yelled. “Come back up, Professor Rumpelstiltskin, and I’ll show you some card tricks,” but the professor sulked angrily in the locker room, and John said goodbye to the warden and went home to his beautiful wife, and they lived happily until the midterm examinations.


  
THE END



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
ONCE upon a time there was an old and famous university which stood on the edge of a high cliff, and at the base of this cliff the sea thumped and growled against the shiny gray rocks as if it wanted to tear away the edge of the land and tumble the university, students and all, splash! into a wet and nasty death.


  
In the laboratory of the bio-chemistry department, however, you could hardly hear the muttering mumble of the waves, for test tubes were bubbling and boiling over on the lab tables and bunsen burners were hissing like happy snakes—or like little fire-breathing dragons—and there was the constant thump of graduate students’ experiments going wrong and blowing up and there was the low twittering sound of scholars whispering answers to one another and cheating on examinations. It was all very cozy.


  
Suddenly all the noise in the lab stopped. The test tubes stopped bubbling and the bunsen burners stopped burning and the graduate students stopped blowing themselves up and the undergraduates even stopped cheating on examinations, for from the office of a certain professor, a certain old and evil professor, came a delighted screeching laugh. Now, if you had heard this laugh you would know that something very horrible was about to occur, because when the professor was happy it was a bad sign.


  
He was a very old and evil man, and what is worse, he liked being a very old and evil man, and he worked as hard at it as he could.


  
Now he came bounding out of his office, laughing and screeching and foaming just a bit at the mouth. He dashed into the laboratory and leaped upon one of the tables and kicked three freshmen and a sophomore. When the students saw him rush into the room they fled into the furthest corner and clung to one another; and there was one small fight when four young chemists tried to cling to one pretty coed. Everybody was frightened: fear rushed around the laboratory like a small furry beast with shining eyes and nasty little fangs. The professor shook with his evil laughter and pointed a long finger at the students and made it wriggle flip-flop! in a double-jointed way—very horrible it looked—and said: “Guess what I’ve done! Guess what I’m going to do! My life’s work is complete!”


  
Everybody knew this was pretty bad, for his life’s work was in doing evil; and if he decided he’d completed it. then something more than just plain garden-variety evil was about to happen.


  
“Are you going to blow up the school?” asked one student.


  
“Are you going to turn somebody into an ape?” asked another.


  
“Are you going to make us study Economics?”


  
“Are you going to de-emphasize football?”


  
“Are you going to sing?”


  
The professor chuckled, for nobody had guessed what he was going to do. His chuckle was a grisly noise, something like the sound an axe makes chopping off a head. “Yeek, yeek,” he chuckled, “yeek, yeek,” and he rubbed his hands together happily. “Can you guess, John?” he asked, pointing at one of the students and sneering.


  
Now John was the student of all the students who was most hated by the professor, for while the professor was busy doing evil John would be busy doing good, and now and then he would upset one of the professor’s favorite plans; and what made it worse was that the professor would do his evil on purpose and John would usually do his good by accident. There was also the fact that John had married the old and evil professor’s daughter. John was a bit absent minded, and he never really realized that the professor hated him, but he knew that something was wrong.


  
“Can I guess what?” he asked.


  
The professor screamed with rage. “Can you guess what I’m going to do?”


  
John scratched his head. “I don’t know. Are you going to come to our house for dinner? We’re having platypus eggs.”


  
“Dinner!” the professor cried. “John, John, you’ll lose your appetite when you see what I’m about to do.”


  
And he wen. “yeek, yeek,” again.


  
“What’s that, father-in-law?” John asked.


  
The professor turned bright purple with a red patch on the back of his neck when he heard this. “Don’t call me father-in-law,” he cried. “Don’t call me anything. Just watch.” And he leaped up and down on the laboratory table, crunching test-tubes under his feet until his face came back to its usual yellow.


  
“Watch,” he cried.


  
HE rushed to the window and flung it open. The low, slow, muttering mumble of the ocean came up and floated into the room. A few fluffy white clouds drifted gently across the sky: sunlight poured into the laboratory and cast the professor’s black shadow across the floor. Even his shadow was evil looking, gnarled and bumpy.


  
“Look,” he shouted, taking a flask out of one of the pockets of his smock. “Do you know what I have in here?” He waved it over his head and his white hair flew out in all directions. “Look well,” he cried, “for I will tell you.”


  
He told them.


  
“No,” cried the students, “No,” and one of them—a coed who was majoring in dramatics—cried, “No, no, not that. Anything but that.”


  
“Yes,” he screeched. “That.”


  
“My goodness,” said John, whose wife didn’t let him swear, “Do you really mean it?”


  
“You wait and see,” he said, and then he told them again what he had in the flask because he had so much enjoyed telling them the first time.


  
“I have the end of life on Earth in here,” hi said, and he whirled and threw it into the sea and leaned far out of the window and watched the flask fall, flickering and flashing in the sunlight, and he saw it smash down on the rocks and break open and spill into the water. Nobody pushed him out after it, which was too bad.


  
John wiped his forehead with a handy piece of asbetos, and he sighed a long and relieved sigh, and all the students sighed with him. “It was kind of you to throw it away,” he Said.


  
“Yeek,” chuckled the professor, “You think I threw it away. Yeek, yeek, yeek.” And he laughed so hard that he grabbed himself around the waist and doubled over, wheezing and gasping for breath, but nobody strangled him, which was too bad, too. The world would be a better place if students were to strangle professors more often. “Do you know what I had in that flask? The most deadly poison there is. Three cubic centimeters of it will poison every drop of salt water in every ocean on Earth, including the Scandinavian.”


  
“Then I won’t drink any more salt water,” said John.


  
“Ha!” cried the professor. “It isn’t poison for people. It’s poison for fishes.”


  
“Fishes!” the students shouted. One of them, a purist, held up his hand. “The plural of fish,” he said, “is fish, the same as the singular, though the word fishes, too, is acceptable.”


  
“Bah!” cried the old and evil professor. “There is no longer any need for a plural word for fish. I’ve poisoned ’em all. Sharks, eels, cod, and the smallest squiggly things at the bottom of the sea. I even threw in the whales and dolphins for good measure. There won’t be a salt-water fish alive in a week. I predict the end of animal life on Earth in twelve years, two months and five days.” He looked at his watch. “That will be at three-fifteen on a Friday afternoon. Don’t make any dates for later than that.” And then he went “yeek, yeek” again.


  
“Look out the window,” he said. “They’re already coming to the surface!” This was true: white-bellied and dead, fish were floating on the top of the sea. “And John,” the professor cried, looking at him in a very hideous planner, “There’s no use your trying to stop me, for I’ve already set the poison to work and there is no antidote possible.”


  
The students looked at each other, smiling. One of them raised his hand. “Professor,” he asked, “Haven’t you overlooked something?”


  
“Yes,” shouted the professor eagerly. “I forgot to tell you. You failed your last examination. You did your diagrams in black ink instead of in blue.”


  
“That’s not what I meant,” the student said. “You may have killed all the fish, and that will be tough on people who live on fish and on the seals too, no doubt, but I don’t see how you’ve ended life on Earth.”


  
“Look at John,” the professor screamed, leaping high into the air in delighted leaps. “Look at John. John knows how.”


  
Everybody looked at John. He was sitting unhappily on the floor of the laboratory among the dust and broken bottles, holding his head in his hands. “Ecology,” he said.


  
“Yeek, yeek,” chuckled the professor, and he kept on chuckling until he was saying “yeekology, yeekology.” And he wheezed and gurgled and said “Tell them what ecology is, John.”


  
JOHN told them. “It’s like this,” he said. “Everything fits together. If you shoot a lot of moose, the coyotes that live on moose meat die off from starvation—those that can’t catch what moose remain—the lack of coyotes lets the next generation of moose grow up in peace so you get a lot of moose, but this plentiful supply of moose lets the coyotes that remain eat well and lets them bring up a lot of little coyotes to eat the moose meat.”


  
“Moose, mice,” somebody shouted, “What does that have to do with fish?”


  
“Fish eat seaweed,” John said.


  
“Fish eat other fish,” said somebody.


  
“But the first fish, he eats seaweed or little things that live in the seaweed.”


  
“So?”


  
“So seaweed isn’t going to get eaten.”


  
“Well?”


  
John looked unhappily at the professor, who was dancing along the edge of the blackboard.


  
“So the seaweed is going to spread and spread until it covers the whole surface of the ocean,” said John; and the professor jumped down from the blackboard thump! to the floor. “Right!” he cried, “And if I didn’t always fail everybody I’d give you an A for your analysis. It’s the end of life on Earth.”


  
The students looked at one another. “It won’t smell that bad,” one said. “We can always move inland.”


  
“Aha!” shouted the old and evil professor. “Don’t you realize that a blanket of seaweed—of nasty seaweed, the kind you can’t eat—is going to spread out over every bit of salt water on Earth, over three fifths of the globe? Can’t you see? Ask John. And remember, John, there’s no antidote for the poison and the water will stay poisoned forever, so there’s nothing you can do.” And away he went to tell the news to the president of the old and famous university.


  
“John,” said the other students, “It will no doubt be unpleasant, but why will it kill off all other life on earth?”


  
“Rain,” said John unhappily. “It won’t rain. The seaweed will keep the oceans from evaporating. The rivers and streams and lakes will all dry up. Vegetation will wither and die. No rain, no rain at all.”


  
The students all looked glum, for they realized that there was nothing they could do now to stop the spread of the poison. The world was doomed. “Golly,” they said.


  
John went home sadly to tell his wife, and she gave the problem ten seconds’ thought. Fortunately, she was a smart girl.


  
IN seven days every fish in every ocean, including the big fish, little fish, and middle-sized fish, was dead; and the professor was running all over the campus, rubbing his bony hands together and going “yeek, yeek” at everyone he saw. He was proud, for he knew that very few people have been able to end the world.


  
“John,” he cried, “This time you have been unable to stop me.”


  
But John didn’t look worried.


  
Six months and four days passed, and the professor came back into the laboratory where the students were all hard at work making bad smells in the test tubes and blowing things up and cheating on examinations. He looked at the watch on his thin wrist and he laughed horribly. “Today is the day,” he cried. “And now is the time. All the fish died on schedule. The seaweed has now had its chance to grow. Faster, faster, and faster. No fish to keep it down. At this very moment the last available inch of ocean is being covered with seaweed. It will never rain again.” And he leaped across the laboratory and screamed in his joy. His evil heels went thump! thump! on the floor as he danced his evil dance of triumph. “Look,” he cried. “Look at my work. Behold the end of the world. Behold the oceans covered with seaweed.”


  
He flung open the window.


  
A ship moved slowly along the horizon, trailing a gentle wreath of smoke behind it. The sun glittered cheerfully on the dancing waves and the water splashed up against the base of the cliff. Splash! it went, Splash!


  
The professor turned back to the laboratory. His face was the color of poison ivy. “John!” he cried, “Is this your doing?”


  
“You should have looked out before,” said John, and all the students laughed and went “yeek, yeek.”


  
The professor leaped from the window, but he was too evil to get hurt. He bashed down on the rocks and grabbed up a handful of water; it trickled through his fingers, shining in the sun. He climbed back up the cliff, looking like a huge and somewhat clumsy bat. and came back into the laboratory. “What did you do?” he screamed. “What did you do?”


  
John smiled. “You made a poison to kill all the fish in the sea so the seaweed would grow and shut off the rain.”


  
“Yes, yes. I did that. It was foolproof, foolproof. What did you do? Why is there water?”


  
John grinned at him. “You made a poison that killed the fish.” He blushed a little. “It was my wife’s idea. I made one to kill the seaweed.”


  
THE END



OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  
Dinosaur Day

  
ONCE upon a time there lived a dragon, and a nasty dragon he was. His name was Tyrannosaurus Rex, and he was just about twenty feet tall. His teeth were six inches long and were usually covered with bloodstains, and they sprang out all along his massive jawbone. His legs—he stood erect—ended in huge claws, compressed and curved wickedly for slashing and tearing, and if you had been able to look at his skeleton you would have seen the familiar saurischian triradiate pelvic structure. From this—if you happened to be a paleontologist—you would have been able to tell that he was carniverous.


  
Of course, if you were not a paleontologist, you could have discovered this fact by a much simpler test: he would have eaten you up.


  
In fact, he did eat up Professor Meyers, who was present when he was brought from the past. Meyers, who had built a machine to dredge up prehistoric life, had been expecting a few snails or a shellfish or two, and he was somewhat surprised when Tyrannosaurus Rex appeared in his laboratory. “Bless my soul,” was all he had time to say before the monster gobbled him up, soul and all.


  
But the story is not over, for there was another Professor lurking in the laboratory at the time, and he was older and more evil than any Professor you have ever seen. He was so old and evil that the dragon was afraid of him.


  
Now, the Professor had one hobby, which was to conquer the world: he liked it better than stamp collecting. When he saw how fierce and hungry and evil the dinosaur was, he saw how to succeed in his vile plot. They made friends at once.


  
The first thing they had to do was to conquer the old and famous university in which the laboratory was located. Now, this was not a hard job, for the university was located on a high cliff overlooking the sea, and there was only one exit, only one way down. The dinosaur, after running round and round the laboratory, breaking equipment in his joy, took up a position just inside this exit, and for three days he ate everybody who tried to leave.


  
He ate seventeen young chemists, three biologists, a nearsighted librarian, five students of history, one poet—but he wrote in heroic couplets so nobody missed him—sixty-two physical education majors, two psychologists—but he spat them out because they were slightly rotten,—one expert in Victorian Literature who died quoting Martin Tupper, six physicists and one young man who was being expelled for failure at football.


  
He had a fine time.


  
Nobody was able to get out of the old and famous university to inform the world that there was a dinosaur standing in the Great Hall by the only exit, eating up students. The old and evil Professor had cut all the telephone lines. There was an amateur radio station in the building, but it would only transmit on eighty meters, so nobody ever heard



OceanofPDF.com

Cover



  

    
      
    
  


OceanofPDF.com

Short Fiction Complete
  



  



OceanofPDF.com