W.G. Sebald
The Rings of Saturn
Translated by Michael Hulse
Transcription by HTT.
Il faut surtout pardonner à ces âmes malheureuses qui ont élu de faire le
pèlerinage à pied, qui côtoient le rivage et regardent sans comprendre
l'horreur de la lutte, la joie de vaincre ni le profond désespoir des vaincus.
Joseph Conrad,
letter to Marguerite Poradowska,
23rd—25th March 1890
The rings of Saturn consist of ice crystals and probably meteorite particles
describing circular orbits around the planet's equator. In all likelihood these
are fragments of a former moon that was too close to the planet and was
destroyed by its tidal effect (Roche limit).
Brockhaus Encyclopaedia
Contents
1. In hospital—Obituary—Odyssey of Thomas Browne's skull—Anatomy
lecture—Levitation—Quincunx—Fabled creatures—Urn burial
2. The diesel train—Morton Peto's palace—Visiting Somerleyton—The
Cities of Germany in flames—The decline of Lowestoft—The former
coastal resort—Frederick Farrar and the court of King James II
3. Fishermen on the beach—The natural history of the herring—George
Wyndham Le Strange—A great herd of swine—The reduplication of man—
Orbis Tertius
4. The Battle of Sole Bay—Nightfall—Station Road in The Hague—
Mauritshuis—Scheveningen—The tomb of St Sebolt—Schiphol airport—
The invisibility of man—The Sailors' Reading Room—Pictures from the
Great War—The concentration camp at Jasenovac on the Sava
5. Conrad and Casement—The Boy Teodor—Exile in Volgda—Nowofastów

—Death and interment of Apollo Korzensiowski—Sea and love-life—A
winter journey—The heart of darkness—The panorama of Waterloo—
Casement, the slave economy and the Irish question—Casement tried and
executed for treason
6. The bridge over the Blyth—The Chinese court train—The Taiping
rebellion and the opening of China—Destruction of the garden of Yuan
Ming Yuan—The end of Emperor Hsien-feng—The Dowager Empress Tz'u-
hsi—Mysteries of power—The town beneath the sea—Poor Algernon
7. Dunwich heath—Marsh Acres, Middleton—A Berlin childhood—Exile in
England—Dreams, elective affinities, correspondences—Two strange stories
—Through the rainforest
8. A conversation about sugar—Boulge Park—The FitzGeralds—The
Bredfield nursery—Edward FitzGerald's literary ventures—A Magic
Shadow-Show—Loss of a friend—Year's end—Last journey, summer
landscape, tears of happiness—A game of dominoes—An Irish memory—
On the history of the civil war—Arson, impoverishment and decline—
Catherine of Siena—The entrepreneurial spirit and the cult of the pheasant—
Through the desert—Secret weapons of destruction—In another country
9. The Temple of Jerusalem—Charlotte Ives and the Vicomte de
Chateaubriand—Memoirs from beyond the grave—In Ditchingham
churchyard—Ditchingham Park—The hurricane of 16th October, 1987
10. Thomas Browne's Museum Clausum—The silkworm moth, Bombyx
mori—Origins and spread of sericulture—The Norwich silk-weavers—The
melancholy of the weavers—Pattern books: nature and art—Sericulture in
Germany—The extermination business—Mourning silk
1
In August 1992, when the dog days were drawing to an end, I set off to
walk the county of Suffolk, in the hope of dispelling the emptiness that takes
hold of me whenever I have completed a long stint of work. And in fact my
hope was realized, up to a point; for I have seldom felt so carefree as I did

then, walking for hours in the day through the thinly populated countryside,
which stretches inland from the coast. I wonder now, however, whether there
might be something in the old superstition that certain ailments of the spirit
and of the body are particularly likely to beset us under the sign of the Dog
Star. At all events, in retrospect I became preoccupied not only with the
unaccustomed sense of freedom but also with the paralysing horror that had
come over me at various times when confronted with the traces of
destruction, reaching far back into the past, that were evident even in that
remote place. Perhaps it was because of this that, a year to the day after I
began my tour, I was taken into hospital in Norwich in a state of almost total
immobility. It was then that I began in my thoughts to write these pages. I
can remember precisely how, upon being admitted to that room on the eighth
floor, I became overwhelmed by the feeling that Suffolk expanses I had
walked the previous summer had now shrunk once and for all to a single,
blind, insensate spot. Indeed, all that could be seen of the world from my bed
was the colourless patch of sky framed in the window.

Several times during the day I felt a desire to assure myself of a reality I
feared had vanished forever by looking out of that hospital window, which,
for some strange reason, was draped with black netting, and as dusk fell the
wish became so strong that, contriving to slip over the edge of the bed to the
floor, half on my belly and half sideways, and then to reach the wall on all
fours, I dragged myself, despite the pain, up to the window sill. In the
tortured posture of a creature that has raised itself erect for the first time I
stood leaning against the glass. I could not help thinking of the scene in
which poor Gregor Samsa, his little legs trembling, climbs the armchair and
looks out of his room, no longer remembering (so Kafka's narrative goes) the
sense of liberation that gazing out of the window had formerly given him.
And just as Gregor's dimmed eyes failed to recognize the quiet street where
he and his family had lived for years, taking Charlottenstraße for a grey
wasteland, so I too found the familiar city, extending from the hospital
courtyards to the far horizon, an utterly alien place. I could not believe that
anything might still be alive in that maze of buildings down there; rather, it
was as if I were looking down from a cliff upon a sea of stone or a field of
rubble, from which the tenebrous masses of multi-storey carparks rose up
like immense boulders. At that twilit hour there were no passers-by to be
seen in the immediate vicinity, but for a nurse crossing the cheerless gardens
outside the hospital entrance on the way to her night shift. An ambulance
with its light flashing was negotiating a number of turns on its way from the
city centre to Casualty. I could not hear its siren; at that height I was
cocooned in an almost complete and, as it were, artificial silence. All I could
hear was the wind sweeping in from the country and buffeting the window;
and in between, when the sound subsided, there was the never entirely
ceasing murmur in my own ears.
Now that I began to assemble my notes, more than year after my
discharge from hospital, I cannot help thinking of Michael Parkinson who
was, as I stood watching the city fade into the dying light, still alive in his
small house in the Portersfield Road, busy perhaps, preparing a seminar or
working on his study of Charles Ramux, which had occupied him for many
years. Michael was in his late forties, a bachelor, and, I believe, one of the
most innocent people I have ever met. Nothing was ever further from his
thoughts than self-interest; nothing troubled him quite so much as the dire
responsibility of performing his duties, under increasingly adverse
conditions. Above all, he was remarkable for the modesty of his needs,

which some considered bordered on eccentricity. At a time when most
people have constantly to be shopping in order to survive, Michael seemed
to have no such need. Year in, year out, as long as I knew him, he wore
either a navy blue or a rust-coloured jacket, and if the cuffs were frayed or
the elbows threadbare he would sew on leather trims or patches. He even
turned the collars of his shirts himself. In the summer vacations, Michael
would make long walking tours of the Valais and the area around Lake
Geneva, in connection with his Ramux studies, and sometimes in the Jura or
the Cevénnes. It often seemed to me, when he returned from these travels or
when I marvelled at the degree of dedication he always brought to his work,
that in his own way he had found happiness, in a modest form that is
scarcely conceivable nowadays. But then without warning last May Michael,
who had not been seen for some days, was found dead in his bed, lying on
his side and already quite rigid, his face curiously mottled with red blotches.
The inquest concluded that he had died of unknown causes, a verdict to
which I added the words, in the deep and dark hours of the night. The shock
that went through us at this quite unexpected death affected no one more
deeply than Janine Dakyns, who, like Michael, was a lecturer in Romance
languages and unmarried too. Indeed, one might say that she was so unable
to bear the loss of the ingenuous, almost childlike friendship they had
shared, that a few weeks after his death she succumbed to a disease that
swiftly consumed her body. Janine, who lived in a lane next to the hospital,
had, like Michael, studied at Oxford and over the years had come to a
profound understanding of the nineteenth-century French novel that had
about it a certain private quality, wholly free of intellectual vanity and was
guided by a fascination for obscure detail rather than by the self-evident.
Gustave Flaubert was for her by far the finest of writers, and on many
occasions she quoted long passages from the thousands of pages of his
correspondence, never failing to astound me. Janine had taken an intense
personal interest in the scruples which dogged Flaubert's writing, that fear of
the false which, she said, sometimes kept him confined to his couch for
weeks or months on end in the dread that he would never be able to write
another word without compromising himself in the most grievous of ways.
moreover, Janine said, he was convinced that everything he had written
hitherto consisted solely in a string of the most abysmal errors and lies, the
consequences of which were immeasurable. Janine maintained that the
source of Flaubert's scruples was to be found in the relentless spread of

stupidity which he had observed everywhere, and which he believed had
already invaded his own head. It was (so supposedly once he said) as if one
was sinking into sand. This was probably the reason, she said, that sand
possessed such significance in all of Flaubert's works. Sand conquered all.
Time and again, said Janine, vast dust clouds drifted through Flaubert's
dreams by day and by night, raised over the arid plains of the African
continent and moving north across the Mediterranean and the Iberian
peninsula till sooner or later they settled like ash from a fire on the Tuileries
gardens, a suburb of Rouen or a country town in Normandy, penetrating into
the tiniest crevices. In a grain of sand in the hem of Emma Bovary's winter
gown, said Janine, Flaubert saw the whole of the Sahara. For him, every
speck of dust weighed as heavy as the Atlas mountains. Many a time, at the
end of a working day. Janine would talk to me about Flaubert's view of the
world, in her office where there were such quantities of lecture notes, letters
and other documents lying around that it was like standing amidst a flood of
paper. On the desk, which was both the origin and the focal point of this
amazing profusion of paper, a virtual paper landscape had come into being in
the course of time, with mountains and valleys. Like a glacier when it
reaches the sea, it had broken off at the edges and established new deposits
all around on the floor, which in turn were advancing imperceptibly towards
the centre of the room. Years ago, Janine had been obliged by the ever-
increasing masses of paper on her desk to bring further tables into use, and
these tables, where similar processes of accretion had subsequently taken
place, represented later epochs, so to speak, in the evolution of Janine's
paper universe. The carpet, too, had long since vanished beneath several
inches of paper; indeed, the paper had begun climbing from the floor, on
which, year after year, it had settled, and was now up the walls as high as the
top of the door frame, page upon page of memoranda and notes pinned up in
multiple layers, all of them by just one corner. Wherever it was possible
there were piles of papers on the books on her shelves as well. It once
occurred to me that at dusk, when all this paper seemed to gather into itself
the pallor of the fading light, it was like the snow in the fields, long ago,
beneath the ink-black sky. In the end Janine was reduced to working from an
easy chair drawn more or less into the middle of her room where, if one
passed her door, which was always ajar, she could be seen bent almost
double scribbling on a pad on her knees or sometimes just lost in thought.
Once when I remarked that sitting there amidst her papers she resembled the

angel in Dürer's Melancholia, steadfast among the instruments of
destruction, her response was that the apparent chaos surrounding her
represented in reality a perfect kind of order, or an order which at least
tended towards perfection. And the fact was that whatever she might be
looking for amongst her papers or her books, or in her head, she was
generally able to find right away. It was Janine who referred me to the
surgeon Anthony Batty Shaw, whom she knew from the Oxford Society,
when after my discharge from hospital I began my enquiries about Thomas
Browne, who had practised as a doctor in Norwich in the seventeenth
century and had left a number of writings that defy all comparison. An entry
in the 1911 edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica had told me that
＆
Browne's skull was kept in the museum of the Norfolk Norwich Hospital.
Unequivocal though this claim appeared, my attempts to locate the skull in
the very place where until recently I had been a patient met with no success,
for none of the ladies and gentlemen of the present administrative staff at the
hospital was aware that any such museum existed. Not only did they stare at
me in utter incomprehension when I voiced my strange request, but I even
had the impression that some of those I asked thought of me as an eccentric
crank. Yet it is well known that in the period when public health and hygiene
were being reformed and hospitals established, many of these institutions
kept museums, or rather chambers of horrors, in which prematurely born,
deformed or hydrocephalic foetuses, were preserved in jars of formaldehyde,
for medical purposes, and occasionally exhibited to the public. The question
was where the things had got to. The local history section of the main
library, which has since been destroyed by fire, was unable to give me any
＆
information concerning the Norfolk Norwich Hospital and the
whereabouts of Browne's skull. It was not until I made contact with Anthony
Batty Shaw, through Janine, that I obtained the information I was after.
Thomas Browne, so Batty Shaw wrote in an article he sent me which he had
just published in the Journal of Medical Biography, died in 1682 on his
seventy-seventh birthday and was buried in the parish church of St Peter
Mancroft in Norwich. There his mortal remains lay undisturbed until 1840,
when the coffin was damaged during preparations for another burial in the
chancel, and its contents partially exposed. As a result, Browne's skull and a
lock of his hair passed into the possession of one Dr Lubbock, a parish
councillor, who in turn left the relics in his will to the hospital museum,
where they were put on display amidst various anatomical curiosities until

1921 under a bell jar. It was not until then that St Peter Mancroft's repeated
request for the return of Browne's skull was acceded to, and, almost a quarter
of a millenium after the first burial, a second interment was performed with
all due ceremony. Curiously enough, Browne himself, in his famous part-
archaeological and part-metaphysical treatise, Urn Burial, offers the most
fitting commentary on the subsequent odyssey of his own skull when he
writes that to be gnaw'd out of our graves is a tragical abomination. But, he
adds, who is to know the fate of his bones, or how often he is to be buried?
Thomas Browne was born in London on the 19th of October 1605, the
son of a silk merchant. Little is known of his childhood, and the accounts of
his life following completion of his master's degree at Oxford tell us scarcely
anything about the nature of his later medical studies. All we know for
certain is that from his twenty-fifth to his twenty-eighth year he attended the
universities of Montpellier, Padua and Vienna, then outstanding in the
Hippocratic sciences, and that just before returning to England, received a
doctorate in medicine from Leiden. In January 1632, while Browne was in
Holland, and thus at a time when he was engaging more profoundly with the

mysteries of the human body than ever before, the dissection of a corpse was
undertaken in public at the Waaggebouw in Amsterdam—the body being
that of Adriaan Adriaanszoon alias Aris Kindt, a petty thief of that city who
had been hanged for his misdemeanours an hour or so earlier. Although we
have no definite evidence for this, it is probable that Browne would have
heard of the dissection and was present at the extraordinary event, which
Rembrandt depicted in his painting of the Guild of Surgeons, for the
anatomy lessons given every year in the depth of winter by Dr Nicolaas Tulp
were not only of the greatest interest to a student of medicine but constituted
in addition a significant date in the agenda of a society that saw itself as
emerging from the darkness into the light. The spectacle, presented before a
paying public drawn from the upper classes, was no doubt a demonstration
of the undaunted investigative zeal in the new sciences; but it also
represented (though this surely would have been refuted) the archaic ritual of
dismembering a corpse, of harrowing the flesh of the delinquent even
beyond death, a procedure then still part of the ordained punishment. That
the anatomy lesson in Amsterdam was about more than a thorough
knowledge of the inner organs of the human body is suggested by
Rembrandt's representation of the ceremonial nature of the dissection—the
surgeons are in their finest attire, and Dr Tulp is wearing a hat on his head—
as well as by the fact that afterwards there was a formal, and in a sense
symbolic banquet. If we stand today before the large canvas of Rembrandt's
The Anatomy Lesson in the Mauritshuis we are standing precisely where
those who were present at the dissection in the Waaggebouw stood, and we
believe that we see what they saw then: in the foreground, the greenish,
prone body of Aris Kindt, his neck broken and his chest risen terribly in
rigor mortis. And yet it is debatable whether anyone ever really saw that
body, since the art of anatomy, then in its infancy, was not least a way of
making the reprobate body invisible. It is somehow odd that Dr Tulp's
colleagues are not looking at Kindt's body, that their gaze is directed just past
it to focus on the open anatomical atlas in which the appalling physical facts
are reduced to a diagram, a schematic plan of the human being, such as
envisaged by the enthusiastic amateur anatomist René Descartes, who was
also, so it is said, present that January morning in the Waaggebouw. In his
philosophical investigations, which form one of the principal chapters of the
history of subjection, Descartes teaches that one should disregard the flesh,
which is beyond our comprehension, and attend to the machine within, to

what can fully be understood, be made wholly useful for work, and, in the
event of any fault, either repaired or discarded.

Though the body is open to contemplation, it is, in a sense, excluded, and
in the same way the much-admired verisimilitude of Rembrandt's picture
proves on closer examination to be more apparent than real. Contrary to
normal practice, the anatomist shown here has not begun his dissection by
opening the abdomen and removing the intestines, which are most prone to
putrefaction, but has started (and this too may imply a punitive dimension to
the act) by dissecting the offending hand. Now, this hand is most peculiar.
It is not only grotesquely out of proportion compared with the hand
closer to us, but it is also anatomically the wrong way round: the exposed
tendons which ought to be those of the left palm, given the position of the
thumb, are in fact those of the back of the right hand. In other words, what
we are faced with is a transposition taken from the anatomical atlas,
evidently without further reflection, that turns this otherwise true-to-life
painting (if one may express it) into a crass misrepresentation at the exact
centre point of its meaning, where the incisions are made. It seems
inconceivable that we are faced here with an unfortunate blunder. Rather, I
believe that there was deliberate intent behind this flaw in the composition.
That unshapely hand signifies the violence that has been done to Aris Kindt.
It is with him, the victim, and not the Guild that gave Rembrandt his
commission, that the painter identifies. His gaze alone is free of Cartesian

rigidity. He alone sees that greenish annihilated body, and he alone sees the
shadow in the half-open mouth and over the dead man's eyes.
We have no evidence to tell us from which angle Thomas Browne
watched the dissection, if, as I believe, he was among the onlookers in the
anatomy theatre in Amsterdam, or indeed what he might have seen there.
Perhaps, as Browne says in a later note about the great fog that shrouded
large parts of England and Holland on the 27th of November 1674, it was
the white mist that rises from within a body opened presently after death,
and which during our lifetime, so he adds, clouds our brain when asleep and
dreaming. I still recall how my own consciousness was veiled by the same
sort of fog as I lay in my hospital room once more after surgery late in the
evening. Under the wonderful influence of the painkillers coursing through
me, I felt, in my iron-framed bed, like a balloonist floating weightless amidst
the mountainous clouds towering on every side. At times the billowing
masses would part and I gazed out at the indigo vastness and down into the
depths where I supposed the earth to be, a black and impenetrable maze. But
in the firmament above were the stars, tiny points of gold speckling the
barren wastes. Through the resounding emptiness, my ears caught the voices
of the two nurses who took my pulse and from time to time moistened my
lips with a small, pink sponge attached to a stick, which reminded me of the
Turkish Delight lollipops we used to buy at the fair. Katy and Lizzie were
the names of these ministering angels, and I think I have rarely been as
elated as I was in their care that night. Of the everyday matters they chatted
about I understood very little. All I heard was the rise and fall of their
voices, a kind of warbling such as comes from the throats of birds, a perfect,
fluting sound, part celestial and part the song of sirens. Of all the things Katy
said to Lizzie and Lizzie to Katy, I remember only one odd scrap. I think
Katy, or Lizzie, was describing a holiday on Malta where, she said, the
Maltese, with a death-defying insouciance quite beyond comprehension,
drove neither on the left nor on the right, but always on the shady side of the
road. It was not until dawn, when the morning shift relieved the night nurses,
that I realized where I was. I became aware again of my body, the insensate
foot, and the pain in my back; I heard the rattle of crockery as the hospital's
daily routine started in the corridor; and, as the first light brightened the sky,
I saw a vapour trail cross the segment framed by my window. At the time I
took that white trail fro a good omen, but now, as I look back, I fear it
marked the beginning of a fissure that has since riven my life. The aircraft at

the tip of the trail was as invisible as the passengers inside it. The invisibility
and intangibility of that which moves us remained an unfathomable mystery
for Thomas Browne too, who saw our world as no more than a shadow
image of another one far beyond. In his thinking and writing he therefore
sought to look upon earthly existence, from the things that were closest to
him to the spheres of the universe, with the eye of an outsider, one might
even say of the creator. His only means of achieving the sublime heights that
his endeavour required was a parlous loftiness in his language. In common
with other English writers of the seventeenth century, Browne wrote out of
the fullness of his erudition, deploying a vast repertoire of quotations and the
names of authorities who had gone before, creating complex metaphors and
analogies, and constructing labyrinthine sentences that sometimes extend
over one or two pages, sentences that resemble processions or a funeral
cortège in their sheer ceremonial lavishness. It is true that, because of the
immense weight of the impediments he is carrying, Browne's writing can be
held back by the force of gravitation, but when he does succeed in rising
higher and higher through the circles of his spiralling prose, borne aloft like
a glider on warm currents of air, even today the reader is overcome by a
sense of levitation. The greater the distance, the clearer the view: one sees
the tiniest of details with the utmost clarity. It is as if one were looking
through a reversed opera glass and through a microscope at the same time.
And yet, says Browne, all knowledge is enveloped in darkness. What we
perceive are no more than isolated lights in the abyss of ignorance, in the
shadow-filled edifice of the world. We study the order of things, says
Browne, but we cannot grasp their innermost essence. And because it is so, it
befits our philosophy to be writ small, using the shorthand and contracted
forms of transient Nature, which alone are a reflection of eternity. True to his
own prescription, Browne records the patterns which recur in the seemingly
infinite diversity of forms; in The Garden of Cyrus, for instance, he draws
the quincunx,

which is composed by using the corners of a regular quadrilateral and the
point at which its diagonals intersect. Browne identifies this structure
everywhere, in animate and inanimate matter: in certain crystalline forms, in
starfish and sea urchins, in the vertebrae of mammals and the backbones of

birds and fish, in the skins of various species of snake, in the crosswise
prints left by quadrupeds, in the physical shapes of caterpillars, butterflies,
silkworms and moths, in the root of the water fern, in the seed husks of the
sunflower and the Caledonian pine, within young oak shoots or the stem of
the horsetail; and in the creations of mankind, in the pyramids of Egypt and
the mausoleum of Augustus as in the garden of King Solomon, which was
planted with mathematical precision with pomegranate trees and white lilies.
Examples might be multiplied without end, says Browne, and one might
demonstrate ad infinitum the elegant geometrical deigns of Nature; however
—thus, with a fine turn of phrase and image, he concludes his treatise—the
constellation of the Hyades, the Quincunx of Heaven, is already sinking
beneath the horizon, and so 'tis time to close the five ports of knowledge. We
are unwilling to spin out our waking thoughts into the phantasmes of sleep;
making cables of cobwebs and wildernesses of handsome groves. Besides,
he adds, Hippocrates in his notes on sleeplessness has spoken so little of the
miracle of plants, that there is scant encouragement to dream of Paradise, not
least since in practice we are occupied above all by the abnormalities of
creation, be they the deformities produced by sickness or the grotesqueries
with which Nature, with an inventiveness scarcely less diseased, fills every
vacant space in her atlas. And indeed, while on the one hand the study of
Nature today aims to describe a system governed by immutable laws, on the
other it delights in drawing our attention to creatures noteworthy for their
bizarre physical form or behaviour. Even in Brehm's Thierleben, a popular
nineteenth-century zoological compendium, pride of place is given to the
crocodile and the kangaroo, the ant-eater and the armadillo, the seahorse and
the pelican; and nowadays we are shown on the television screen a colony of
penguins, say, standing motionless through the long dark winter of the
Antarctic, with its icy storms, on their feet the eggs laid at a milder time of
year. In programmes of this kind, which are called Nature Watch or Survival
and are considered particularly educational, one is more likely to see some
monster coupling at the bottom of Lake Baikal than an ordinary blackbird.
Thomas Browne too was often distracted from his investigations into the
isomorphic line of the quincunx by a singular phenomena that fired his
curiosity, and by work on a comprehensive pathology. He is said to have
long kept a bittern in his study in order to find out how this peculiar bird
could produce from the depths of its throat such a strange bassoon-like
sound, unique in the whole of Nature; and in the Pseudodoxia Epidemica, in

which he dispels popular errors and legends, he deals with beings both real
and imaginary, such as the chameleon, the salamander, the ostrich, the
gryphon and the phoenix, the basilisk, the unicorn, and the amphisbaena, the
serpent with two heads. In most cases, Browne refutes the existence of the
fabled creatures, but the astonishing monsters that we know to be properly
part of the natural world leave us with a suspicion that even the most
fantastical beasts might not be mere inventions. At all events, it is clear from
Browne's account that the endless mutations of Nature, which go far beyond
any rational limit, and equally the chimaeras produced by our own minds,
were as much a source of fascination to him as they were, three-hundred
years later, to Jorge Luis Borges, whose Libro de los seres imaginarios was
published in Buenos Aires in 1967. Recently I realized that the imaginary
beings listed alphabetically in that compendium include the creature
Baldanders, whom Simplicius Simplicissimus encounters in the sixth book
of Grimmelshausen's narrative. There, Baldanders is first seen as a stone
sculpture lying in a forest, resembling a Germanic hero of old and wearing a
Roman soldier's tunic with a big Swabian bib. Baldanders claims to have
come from Paradise, to have always been in Simplicius's company,
unbeknownst to him, and to be unable to quit his side until Simplicius shall
have reverted to the clay he is made of. Then, before the very eyes of
Simplicius, Baldanders changes into a scribe who writes these lines,

and then into a mighty oak, a sow, a sausage, a piece of excrement, a
field of clover, a white flower, a mulberry tree, and a silk carpet. Much as in
this continuous process of consuming and being consumed, nothing endures,
in Thomas Browne's view. On every new thing there lies already the shadow
of annihilation. For the history of every individual, of every social order,
indeed of the whole world, does not describe an ever-widening, more and
more wonderful arc, but rather follows a course which, once the meridian is
reached, leads without fail down into the dark Knowledge of that descent
into the dark. Knowledge of that descent into the dark, for Browne, is
inseparable from his belief in the day of resurrection, when, as in a theatre,
the last revolutions are ended and the actors appear once more on stage, to
complete and make up the catastrophe of this great piece. As a doctor, who
saw disease growing and raging in bodies, he understood mortality better
than the flowering of life. To him it seems a miracle that we should last so
much as a single day. There is no antidote, he writes, against the opium of

time. The winter sun shows how soon the light fades from the ash, how soon
night enfolds us. Hour upon hour is added to the sum. Time itself grows old.
Pyramids, arches and obelisks are melting pillars of snow. Not even those
who have found a place amidst the heavenly constellations have perpetuated
their names: Nimrod is lost in Orion and Osiris in the Dog Star. Indeed, old
families last not three oaks. To set one's name to a work gives no one a title
to be remembered, for who knows how many of the best of men have gone
without a trace? The iniquity of oblivion blindly scatters her poppyseed and
when wretchedness falls upon us one summer's day like snow, all we wish is
to be forgotten. These are the circles Browne's thoughts describe, most
unremittingly perhaps in the Hydriotaphia or Urn Burial of 1658, a
discourse on sepulchral urns found in a field near Walsingham in Norfolk.
Drawing upon the most varied of historical and natural historical sources, he
expatiates upon the rites we enact when one from our midst sets out on his
last journey. Beginning with some examples of sepulture in elephants,
cranes, the sepulchral cells of pismires and practice of bees; which civil
society carrieth out their dead, and heath exequies, if not interments, he
describes the funeral rites of numerous peoples before coming to the
Christian religion, which buries the sinful body whole and thus extinguishes
the fires once and for all. The almost universal practice of cremation in pre-
Christian times should not lead one to conclude, as is often done, that the
heathen were ignorant of life beyond death, to show which Browne observes
that the funeral pyres were built of sweet fuel, cypress, fir, yew, and other
trees perpetually verdant as silent expressions of their surviving hopes.
Browne also remarks that, contrary to general belief, it is not difficult to
burn a human body: a piece of an old boat burnt Pompey, and the King of
Castile burnt large numbers of Saracens with next to no fuel, the fire being
visible far and wide. Indeed, he adds, if the burthen of Isaac were sufficient
for an holocaust, a man may carry his own pyre. Browne then turns to the
strange vessels unearthed from the field near Walsingham. it is astounding,
he says, how long these thin-walled clay urns remained intact a yard
underground, while the sword and ploughshare passed above them and great
buildings, palaces and cloud-high towers crumbled and collapsed. The
cremated remains in the urns are examined closely: the ash, the loose teeth,
some long roots of quitch, or dog's grass wreathed about the bones, and the
coin intended for the Elysian ferryman. Browne records other objects known
to have been placed with the dead, whether as ornament or utensil. His

catalogue includes a variety of curiosities: the circumcision knives of
Joshua, the ring which belonged to the mistress of Propertius, an ape of
agate, a grasshopper, three-hundred golden bees, a blue opal, silver belt
buckles and clasps, combs, iron pins, brass plates and brazen nippers to pull
away hair, and a brass jew's-harp that last sounded on the crossing over the
black water. The most marvellous item, however, from a Roman urn
preserved by Cardinal Farnese, is a drinking glass, so bright it might have
been newly blown. For Browne, things of this kind, unspoiled by the passage
of time, are symbols of the indestructibility of the human soul assured by
scripture, which the physician, firm though he may be in his Christian faith,
perhaps secretly doubts. And since the heaviest stone that melancholy can
throw at a man is to tell him he is at the end of his nature, Browne
scrutinizes that which escaped annihilation for any sign of the mysterious
capacity for transmigration he has so often observed in caterpillars and
moths. That purple piece of silk he refers to, then, in the urn of Patroclus—
what does it mean?
2
It was on a grey, overcast day in August 1992 that I travelled down to the
coast in one of the old diesel trains, grimed with oil and soot up to the
windows, which ran from Norwich to Lowestoft at that time. The few
passengers there were sat in the half-light on the threadbare seats, all of them
facing the engine and as far away from each other as they could be, and so
silent, that not a word might have passed their lips in the whole of their lives.
Most of the time the carriage, pitching about unsteadily on the track, was
merely coasting along, since there is an almost unbroken gentle decline
towards the sea; at intervals, though, when the gears engaged with a jolt that
rocked the entire framework, the grinding of cog wheels could be heard for a
while, till, with a more even pounding, the onward roll resumed, past the
back gardens, allotments, rubbish dumps and factory yards to the east of the
city and out into the marshes beyond. Through Brundall, Buckenham and
Cantley, where, at the end of a straight roadway, a sugar-beet refinery with a
belching smokestack sits in a green field like a steamer at a wharf, the line
follows the River Yare, till at Reedham it crosses the water and, in a wide
curve, enters the vast flatland that stretches southeast down to the sea. Save
for the odd solitary cottage there is nothing to be seen but the grass and the

rippling reeds, one or two sunken willows, and some ruined conical brick
buildings, like relics of an extinct civilization. These are all that remains of
the countless wind pumps and windmills whose white sails revolved over the
marshes of
Halvergate and all along the coast until in the decades following the First
World War, one after the other, they were all shut down. It's hard to imagine
now, I was once told by someone who could remember the turning sails in
his childhood, that the white flecks of the windmills lit up the landscape just
as a tiny highlight brings life to a painted eye. And when those bright little
points faded, the whole region, so to speak, faded with them. —After
Reedham we stopped at Haddiscoe and Herringfleet, two scattered villages
just visible in the distance; and at the next station, the halt for Somerleyton
Hall, I got out. The train ground into motion again and disappeared round a
gradual bend, leaving a trail of black smoke behind it. There was no station
at the stop, only an open shelter. I walked down the deserted platform, to my
left the seemingly endless expanses of the marshes and to my right, beyond a
low brick wall, the shrubs and trees of the park. There was not a soul about,
of whom one might have asked the way. At one time, I thought, as I slung

my rucksack over my shoulder and crossed the track, things would have
been quite different here. Almost everything a residence such as
Somerleyton required for its proper upkeep and all that was necessary in
order to sustain a social position never altogether secure would have been
brought in on the railway from other parts of the country and would have
arrived at this station in the goods van of the olive-green-liveried steam train
—furnishings, equipment and impedimenta of every description, the new
piano, curtains, and portières, the Italian tiles and fittings for the bathrooms,
the boiler and pipes for the hothouses, supplies from the market gardens,
cases of hock and Bordeaux, lawn mowers and great boxes of whalebone
corsets and crinolines from London. And now there was nothing any more,
nobody, no stationmaster in gleaming peaked cap, no servants, no coachman,
no house guests, no shooting parties, neither gentlemen in indestructible
tweeds nor ladies in stylish travelling clothes. It takes just one awful second,
I often think, and an entire epoch passes. Nowadays Somerleyton Hall, like
most important country houses, is open to a paying public in the summer
months. But these people do not arrive by the diesel train; they drive in at the
main gates in their own automobiles. If one nevertheless arrives at the
railway halt, as I did, and has no desire to walk all the way round to the
front, one has to climb the wall like some interloper and struggle through the
thicket before reaching the park. It seemed to me like a curious object lesson
from the history of evolution, which at times repeats its earlier conceits with
a certain sense of irony, that when I emerged from the trees I beheld a
miniature train puffing through the fields with a number of people sitting on
it. They reminded me of dressed-up circus dogs or seals; and at the front of
the train, a ticket satchel slung about him, sat the engine driver, conductor
and controller of all the animals, the present Lord Somerleyton, Her Majesty
The Queen's Master of the Horse.
In the Middle Ages, the manor of Somerleyton was held by the
FitzOsberts and the Jernegans, but over the centuries ownership of the estate
passed to a number of families related either by blood or by marriage. From
the Jernegans it feel to the Wentworths, from the Wentworths to the Garneys,
from the Garneys to the Allens, and from the Allens to the Anguishes, whose
line became extinct in 1843. In that year, Lord Sydney Godolphin Osborne, a
distant relative of that extinct family chose not to take up his inheritance and
instead sold the entire property to Sir Morton Peto. Peto, who came of
humble origins and who had worked his way up from bricklayer's labourer,

was just thirty when he purchased Somerleyton, but was already among the
foremost entrepreneurs and speculators of his time. In the planning
execution of prestigious construction projects in London, among them
Hungerford Market, the Reform Club, Nelson's Column and a number of
West End theatres, he set new standards in every respect. Moreover, his
financial interests in the railways being built in Canada, Australia, Africa,
Argentina, Russia and Norway had made him a truly massive fortune in the
shortest of times, so that he was now ready to crown his ascent into the
highest social spheres by establishing a country residence, the comfort and
extravagance of which would eclipse everything that nation had hitherto
seen. And indeed Morton Peto's dream, a princely palace in what was known
as the Anglo-Italian style, along with its interiors, was completed within a
very few years on the site of the old, demolished hall. As early as 1852, The
Illustrated London news and other society periodicals were running the most
effusive reports on the new Somerleyton. In particular, it was famed for the
scarcely perceptible transitions from interiors to exterior; those who visited
were barely able to tell where the natural ended and the man-made began.
There were drawing rooms and winter gardens, spacious halls and
verandahs. A corridor might end in a ferny grotto where fountains
ceaselessly plashed, and bowered passages criss-crossed beneath the dome
of a fantastic mosque. Windows could be lowered to open the interior onto
the outside, and inside the landscape was replicated on the mirror walls.
Palm houses and orangeries, the lawn like green velvet, the baize on the
billiard tables, the bouquets of lowers in the morning and retiring rooms and
in the majolica vases on the terrace, the birds of paradise and the golden
pheasants on the silken tapestries, the goldfinches in the aviaries and the
nightingales in the garden, the arabesques in the carpets and the box-edged
flower beds—all of it interacted in such a way that one had the illusion of
complete harmony between the natural and the manufactured. The most
wonderful sight of all, according to one contemporary description, was
Somerleyton of a summer's night, when the incomparable glasshouses, borne
on cast-iron pillars and braces and seemingly weightless in their filigree
grace, shed their gleaming radiance on the dark. Countless Argand burners
backed with silver-plated reflectors, the white flames consuming the
poisonous gas with a low hissing sound, cast an immense brightness that
pulsated like the current of life that runs through the earth.

Not even Coleridge, in an opium dream, could have imagined a more
magical scene for his Mongol overlord, Kubla Khan. And now, the writer
continues, suppose that at some point during a soirée you and someone close
to you climb the campanile at Somerleyton, you stand on the gallery at the
very top and are brushed by the soundless wing of a bird gliding by in the
night! The intoxicating scent of linden blossom is wafted up from the great
avenue. Below, you see the steep roofs tiled with dark blue slate, and in the
snow-white glow from the shimmering glasshouses the level blackness of
the lawns. Further off in the park drift the shadows of Lebanese cedars; in
the deer enclosure, the wary animals keep one eye open in their sleep; and
beyond the furthermost perimeter, away toward the horizon, the marshes
extend and the sails of the mills are turning in the wind.
Somerleyton strikes the visitor of today no longer as an oriental palace in
a fairy tale. The glass-covered walks and the palm house whose lofty dome
used once to light up the nights, were burnt out in 1913 after a gas explosion
and subsequently demolished. The servants who kept all in good order, the
butlers, coachmen, chauffeurs, gardeners, cooks, sempstresses, and
chambermaids, have long since gone. The suites of rooms now make a
somewhat disused, dispirited impression. The velvet curtains and crimson
blinds are faded, the settees and armchairs sag, the stairways and corridors

which the guided tour takes one through are full of bygone paraphernalia. A
camphor wood chest which may once have accompanied a former occupant
of the house on a tour of duty to Nigeria or Singapore now contains old
croquet mallets and wooden balls, golf clubs, billiard cues and tennis
racquets, most of them so small they might have been intended for children,
or have shrunk in the course of the years. The walls are hung with copper
kettles, bedpans, hussars' sabres, African masks, spears, safari trophies,
hand-coloured engravings of Boer War battles—Battle of Pieters Hill and
Relief of Ladysmith: A Bird's-Eye View from an Observation Balloon—and a
number of family portraits painted perhaps some time between 1920 and
1960 by an artist not untouched by Modernism, the plaster-coloured faces of
the sitters mottled with scarlet and purple blotches. The stuffed polar bear in
the entrance hall stands over three yards tall. With its yellowish and moth-
eaten fur, it resembles a ghost bowed by sorrows. There are indeed moments,
as one passes through the rooms open to the public at Somerleyton, when
one is not quite sure whether one is in a country house in Suffolk or some
kind of no-man's-land, on the shores of the Arctic Ocean or in the heart of
the dark continent. Nor can one readily say which decade or century it is, for
many ages are superimposed here and coexist. As I strolled through
Somerleyton Hall that August afternoon, amidst a throng of visitors who
occasionally lingered here or there, I was variously reminded of a
pawnbroker's or an auction hall. And yet it was the sheer number of things,
possessions accumulated by generations and now waiting, as it were, for the
day when they would be sold off, that won me over to what was, ultimately,
a collection of oddities. How uninviting Somerleyton must have been, I
reflected, in the days of the industrial impresario Morton Peto, MP, when
everything, from the cellar to the attic, from the cutlery to the waterclosets,
was brand new, matching in every detail, and in unremittingly good taste.
And how fine a place the house seemed to me now that it was imperceptibly
nearing the brink of dissolution and silent oblivion. However, on emerging
into the open air again, I was saddened to see, in one of the otherwise
deserted aviaries, a solitary Chinese quail, evidently in a state of dementia,
running to and fro along the edge of the cage and shaking its head every time
it was about to turn, as if it could not comprehend how it had got into this
hopeless fix.

The grounds, in contrast to the waning splendour of the house, were now
at their evolutionary peak, a century after the heyday of Somerleyton. The
flower beds might well have been better tended and more gloriously
colourful, but today the trees planted by Morton Peto filled the air above the
gardens, and several of the ancient cedars, which were there to be admired
by visitors even then, now extended their branches over well-nigh a quarter
of an acre, each an entire world unto itself. There were sequoias towering
more than sixty yards, and rare oriental planes, the outermost extremities of
which had bowed down as low as the lawn, securing a hold where they
touched the ground, to shoot up once more in a perfect circle. It was easy to
imagine this species of plane tree spreading over the country, just as
concentric circles ripple across water, the parents becoming weaker and
dying off from within as the progeny conquers the land about them. Some of
the lighter-coloured trees seemed to drift like clouds above the the parkland.
Others were of a deep, impenetrable green. Like terraces the crowns rose one
upon another, and if one defocused one's eyes just slightly it was like
looking upon mountains covered with vast forests. Yet the densest and
greenest was for me the Somerleyton yew maze, in the heart of the
mysterious estate, where I became so completely lost that I could not find

the way out again until I resorted to drawing a line with the heel of my boot
across the white sand of every hedged passage that had proved to be a dead
end. Later, in one of the long hothouses built against the brick walls of the
kitchen garden, I struck up a conversation with William Hazel, the gardener
who now looks after Somerleyton with the help of several odd-job men.
When he realized where I was from he told me that during his last years at
school, and his subsequent apprenticeship, his thoughts constantly revolved
around the bombing raids then being launched on Germany from the sixty-
seven airfields that were established in East Anglia after 1940. People
nowadays hardly have any idea of the scale of the operation, said Hazel. In
the course of one thousand and nine days, the eighth airfleet alone used a
billion gallons of fuel, dropped seven hundred and thirty-two thousand tons
of bombs, and lost almost nine thousand aircraft and fifty thousand men.
Every evening I watched the bomber squadrons heading out over
Somerleyton, and night after night, before I went to sleep, I pictured in my
mind's eye the German cities going up on flames, the firestorms setting the
heavens alight, and the survivors rooting about in the ruins. One day when
Lord Somerleyton was helping me prune the vines in this greenhouse, for
something to do, said Hazel, he explained the Allied carpet-bombing
strategy to me, and some time later he brought me a big relief map of
Germany. All the place names I had heard on the news were marked in
strange letters alongside symbolic picture sof the towns that varied in the
number of gables, turrets and towers according to the size of population; and
moreover, in the case of particularly important cities, there were emblems of
features associated with them, such as Cologne cathedral, the Römer in
Frankfurt, or the statue of Roland in Bremen. Those tiny images of towns,
about the size of postage stamps, looked like romantic castles, and I pictured
the German Reich as a medieval and vastly enigmatic land. Time and again I
studied the various regions on the map, from the Polish border to the Rhine,
from the green plains of the north to the dark brown Alps, partly covered
with eternal snow and ice, and spelled out the names of the cities, the
destruction of which had just been announced: Braunschweig and Würzburg,
Wilhelmshaven, Schweinfurt, Stuttgart, Pforzheim, Düren, and dozens more.
In that way I got to know the whole country by heart; you might even say it
was burnt into me. At all events, ever since then I have tried to find out
everything I could that was in any way connected with the air in the air. In
the early Fifties, when I was in Lüneburg with the army of occupation, I

even learnt German, after a fashion, so that I could read what the Germans
themselves had said about the bombings and their lives in the ruined cities.
To my astonishment, however, I soon found the search for such accounts
invariably proved fruitless. No one at the time seemed to have written about
their experiences or afterwards recorded their memories. Even if you asked
people directly, it was as if everything had been erased from their minds. As
for myself, though, whenever I close my eyes, to this day, I see the
formations of bombers, Lancasters and Halifaxes, Liberators and Flying
Fortresses, going out towards Germany across the grey North Sea, and then
straggling home in the dawn. In early April 1945, not long before the War
ended, said Hazel, sweeping up the vine shoots he had cut, I saw two
American Thunderbolts crash here, over Somerleyton, It was a fine Sunday
morning. I had been helping my father with an urgent repair job up on the
campanile, which is really a water tower. When we were finished we stood
on the look-out platform, from where there is a view right out to sea. We had
hardly had time to look around when the two planes, returning from a patrol,
staged a dogfight over the estate, out of sheer high spirits, I suppose. We
could see the pilots' faces clearly in their cockpits. The engines roared as
they chased after each other, or flew side by side in the bright spring air, till
their wing tips touched as they banked. It had seemed like a friendly game,
said Hazel, and yet now they fell, almost instantly. When they disappeared
beyond the white poplars and willows, I went all tense waiting for the crash.
But there were no flames or clouds of smoke. The lake swallowed them up
without a sound. Years later we pulled them out. Big Dick, one of the
airplanes was called and the other Lady Loreley. The two pilots, Flight
Lieutenants Russel P. Judd from Versailles, Kentucky, and Louis S. Davies
from Athens, Georgia, or what bits and bones had remained of them, were
buried here in the grounds.
After I had taken my leave of William Hazel I walked for a good hour
along the country road from Somerleyton to Lowestoft, passing Blundeston
prison, which rises out of the flatland like a fortified town and keeps within
its walls twelve-hundred inmates at any one time. It was already after six in
the evening when I reached the outskirts of Lowestoft. Not a living soul was
about in the long streets I went through,

and the closer I came to the town centre the more what I saw
disheartened me. The last time I had been in Lowestoft was perhaps fifteen
years ago, on a June day that I spent on the beach with two children, and I
thought I remembered a town that had become something of a backwater but
was nonetheless very pleasant; so now, as I walked into Lowestoft, it seemed
incomprehensible to me that in such a relatively short period of time the
place could have become so run down. Of course I was aware that this
decline had been irreversible ever since the economic crises and depressions
of the Thirties; but around 1975, when they were constructing the rigs for the
North Sea, there were hopes that things might change for the better, hopes
that were steadily inflated during the hardline capitalist years of Baroness
Thatcher, till in due course they collapsed in a fever of speculation. The
damage spread slowly at first, smouldering underground, and then caught
like wildfire. The wharves and factories closed down one after the other,
until all that might be said for Lowestoft was that it occupied the
easternmost point in the British Isles. Nowadays, in some of the streets
almost every other house is up for sale; factory owners, shopkeepers and
private individuals are sliding ever deeper into debt; week in, week out,

some bankrupt or unemployed person hangs himself; nearly a quarter of the
population is now practically illiterate, and there is no sign of an end to the
encroaching misery. Although I knew all of this, I was unprepared for the
feeling of wretchedness that instantly seized hold of me in Lowestoft, for it
is one thing to read about unemployment blackspots in the newspapers and
quite another to walk out on a cheerless evening, past rows of run-down
houses with mean little front gardens; and, having reached the town centre,
to find nothing but amusement arcades, bingo halls, betting shops, video
stores, pubs that emit a sour reek of beer from their dark doorways, cheap
markets, and seedy bed-and-breakfast establishments with names like Ocean
Dawn, Beachcomber, Balmoral, or Layla Lorraine. It was difficult to
imagine the holidaymakers and commercial travellers who would want to
stay there, nor was it easy—as I climbed the steps coated with shiny blue
paint up to the entrance—to recognize the Albion as the "hotel on the
promenade of a superior description" recommended in my guidebook, which
had been published shortly after the turn of the century. I stood for a good
while in the empty lobby, and wandered through the public rooms, which
were completely deserted even now at the height of the season—if one can
speak of a season in Lowestoft—before I happened upon a startled young
woman who, after hunting pointlessly through the register on the reception
desk, handed me a huge room key attached to a wooden pear. I noticed that
she was dressed in the style of the Thirties and that she avoided eye contact;
either her gaze remained fixed on the floor or she looked right through me as
if I were not there. That evening I was the sole guest in the huge dining
room, and it was the same startled person who took my order and shortly
afterwards brought me a fish that had doubtless lain entombed in the deep-
freeze for years. The breadcrumb armour-plating of the fish had been partly
singed by the grill, and the prongs of my fork bent on it. Indeed it was so
difficult to penetrate what eventually proved to be nothing but an empty
shell that my plate was a hideous mess once the operation was over. The
tartare sauce that I had had to squeeze out of a plastic sachet was turned grey
by the sooty breadcrumbs, and the fish itself, or what feigned to be fish, lay a
sorry wreck among the grass-green peas and the remains of soggy chips that
gleamed with fat. I no longer recall how long I sat in that dining room with
its gaudy wallpaper before the nervous young woman, who evidently did all
the work in the establishment single-handed, scurried out from the
thickening shadows in the background to clear the table. She may have

appeared the moment I put down my knife and fork, or perhaps an hour had
passed; all I can remember are the scarlet blotches which appeared from the
neckline of her blouse and crept up her throat as she bent for my plate. When
she had flitted away once more I rose and crossed to the semi-circular bay
window. Outside was the beach, somewhere between the darkness and the
light, and nothing was moving, neither in the air nor on the land nor on the
water. Even the white waves rolling in to the sands seemed to me to be
motionless.
The following morning, when I left the Albion Hotel with my rucksack
over my shoulder, Lowestoft had reawoken to life, under a cloudless sky.
Passing the harbour, where dozens of decommissioned and unemployed
trawlers rode at their moorings, I headed south through streets that were now
congested with traffic and filled with blue petrol fumes. Once, right by
Lowestoft Central station, which had not been refurbished since it was built
in the nineteenth century, a black hearse decked out with wreaths slid past
me amidst the other vehicles. In it sat two earnest-faced undertaker's men,
the driver and a co-driver, and behind them, in the loading area, as it were,
someone who had but recently departed this life was lying in his coffin, in
his Sunday best, his head on a little pillow, his eyelids closed, hands clasped,

and the tips of his shoes pointing up. As I gazed after the hearse I thought of
that working lad from Tuttlingen, two hundred years ago, who joined the
cortège of a seemingly well known merchant in Amsterdam and then
listened with reverence and emotion to the graveside oration although he
knew not a word of Dutch. If before then he had marvelled with envy at the
tulips and starflowers behind the windows, and at the crates, bales and chests
of tea, sugar, spices and rice that arrived in the docks from the faraway East
Indies, from now on, when occasionally he wondered why he had acquired
so little on his way through the world, he had only to think of the
Amsterdam merchant he had escorted on his last journey, of his big house,
his splendid ship, and his narrow grave. With this story in my head I made
my way out of a town on which the marks of an insidious decay were
everywhere apparent, a town which in its heyday had been not only one of
the foremost fishing ports in the United Kingdom but also a seaside resort
lauded even abroad as "most salubrious". At that time, in the latter half of
the nineteenth century, a number of hotels were built on the south bank of
the River Waveney, under the direction of Morton Peto. They met all the
requirements of London society circles, and, as well as the hotels, pump
rooms and pavilions were built, churches and chapels for every
denomination, a lending library, a billiard hall, a tea house that resembled a
temple, and a tramway with a magnificent terminus. A broad esplanade,
avenues, bowling greens, botanical gardens, and sea- and freshwater baths
were established, as were associations for the promotion and the
beautification of Lowestoft. In no time at all, notes a contemporary account,
Lowestoft had risen to pride of place in the public esteem, and now
possessed every facility requisite for a bathing resort of repute. Anyone who
considered the elegance and perfection of the buildings recently constructed
along the south beach, the article continued, would doubtless recognize that
everything, from the overall plan to the very last detail, had been informed
and shaped by the principles of rationality in the most advantageous way.
The crowning glory of the enterprise, which was in every respect exemplary,
was the new pier, which stretched four hundred years out into the North Sea
and was considered the most beautiful anywhere along the eastern coast of
England. The promenade deck was made of African mahogany planking,
and the white pier buildings, which were illuminated after nightfall by gas
flares, included a reading and music room with tall mirrors around the walls.
Every year at the end of September, as my friend Frederick Farrar told me a

few months before he died, a charity ball was held there under the patronage
of a member of the royal family to mark the close of the regatta. Frederick
was born in Lowestoft in 1906 (far too late, as he once observed to me) and
grew up there amidst the care and attention of his three sisters Violet, Iris
and Rose. Then in early 1914 he was sent to a preparatory school near Flore
in Northamptonshire. The great pain of separation, Frederick recalled, was
with me for a long time, especially before going to sleep or when I was
tidying my things; but one evening at the start of my second year, when we
were told to assemble on the west forecourt, this pain was transformed
within me into a kind of perverse pride. We were there to hear a patriotic
speech from our headmaster, who told us of the just causes and higher
significance of the war which had broken out during the school holidays.
When he had finished, said Frederick, a junior cadet named Francis Browne,
whom I have not forgotten to this day, played the Last Post on a bugle. From
1924 to 1928, at the wish of his father, who was a solicitor in Lowestoft and
for a lengthy period also the consul of Denmark and of the Ottoman Empire,
Frederick read law at Cambridge and London, and subsequently as he once
said with a certain horror, spent more than half a century in lawyers'
chambers and courtrooms. Since judges in England generally remain in
office well into old age, Frederick had only just retired when in 1982 he
bought a house in our neighbourhood and devoted himself to breeding rare
roses and violets. I need hardly add that the iris was also one of his
favourites. In the course of ten years he grew dozens of varieties of these
flowers in the garden he had established, with the help of a young boy who
came round almost every day to lend him a hand. His garden was one of the
loveliest in the whole region, and towards the end of his life, after a stroke
had left him very frail, I often sat there with him, listening to tales of
Lowestoft and the past. And it was in that garden, one cloudless day in May,
that Frederick died; as he was making his morning round, he somehow
managed to set fire to his dressing gown with the cigarette lighter he always
kept in his pocket. The garden boy found him an hour later, unconscious and
with severe burns from head to foot, in a cool, half-shaded place, where the
tiny viola labradorica with its almost black leaves had spread and
established a regular colony. Frederick succumbed to his injuries that same
day. At the funeral in the little graveyard at Framingham Earl I could not
help thinking of that child bugler Francis Browne, playing into the night in a
Northamptonshire schoolyard in the summer of 1914, and the white pier at

Lowestoft, which reached out so far into the sea in those days. Frederick had
told me that on the evening of the charity ball the common folk, who in the
nature of things were not admitted, rowed out to the end of the pier in a
hundred or more boats and barges, to watch, from their bobbing, drifting
vantage points, as fashionable society swirled to the sound of the orchestra,
seemingly borne aloft in a surge of light above the water, which was dark
and at that time in early autumn usually swathed in mist. If I now look back
at those times, Frederick once said, it is as if I were seeing everything
through flowing white veils: the town like a mirage over the water, the
seaside villas right down to the shore surrounded by green trees and shrubs,
the summer light, and the beach, across which we have just returned from an
outing, Father walking ahead with one or two gentlemen whose trousers are
rolled up, Mother by herself with a parasol, my sisters with their skirts
gathered in one hand, and the servants bringing up the rear with the donkey,
between whose panniers I am sitting on my perch. Once, years ago, said
Frederick, I even dreamed of that scene, and our family seemed to me like
the court of King James II in exile on the coast of The Hague.

3
Three or four miles south of Lowestoft the coastline curves gently into
the land. From the footpath that runs along the grassy dunes and low cliffs
one can see, at any time of the day or night and at any time of the year, as I
have often found, all manner of tent-like shelters made of poles and cordage,
sailcloth and oilskin, along the pebble beach. They are strung out in a long
line on the margin of the sea, at regular intervals. It is as if the last stragglers
of some nomadic people had settled there,
at the outermost limit of earth, in expectation of the miracle longed for
since time immemorial, the miracle which would justify all their erstwhile
privations and wanderings. In reality, however, these men camping out under
the heavens have not traversed faraway lands and deserts to reach this
strand. Rather, they are from the immediate neighbourhood, and have long
been in the habit of fishing there and gazing out to the sea as it changes
before their eyes. Curious to tell, their number almost always remains more
or less the same. If one strikes camp, another soon takes his place; so that
over the years, or so it appears, this company of fishermen dozing by day
and waking by night never changes, and indeed may go back further than
memory can reach. They say it is rare for any of the fishermen to establish
contact with his neighbour, for, although they all look eastward and see both

the dusk and the dawn coming up over the horizon, and although they are all
moved, I imagine, by the same unfathomable feelings, each of them is
nonetheless quite alone and dependent on no one but on himself and on the
few items of equipment he has with him, such as a penknife, a thermos flask,
or the little transistor radio that gives forth a scarcely audible, scratchy
sound, as if the pebbles being dragged back by the waves were walking to
each other. I do not believe that these men sit by the sea all day and all night
so as not to miss the time when the whiting pass, the flounder rise or the cod
come in to the shallower waters, as they claim. They just want to be in a
place where they have the world behind them, and before them nothing but
emptiness. The fact is that today it is almost impossible to catch anything
fishing from the beach. The boats in which the fishermen once put out from
the shore have vanished, now that fishing no longer affords a living, and the
fishermen themselves are dying out. No one is interested in their legacy.
Here and there one comes across abandoned boats that are falling apart, and
the cables with which they were once hauled ashore are rusting in the salt
air. Out on the high seas the fishing continues, at least for the present, though
even there the catches are growing smaller, quite apart from the fact that the
fish that are landed are often useless for anything but fish-meal. Every year
the rivers bear thousands of tons of mercury, cadmium and lead, and
mountains of fertilizer and pesticides, out into the North Sea. A substantial
proportion of the heavy metals and other toxic substances sink into the
waters of the Dogger Bank, where a third of the fish are now born with
strange deformities and excrescences. Time and again, off the coast, rafts of
poisonous algae are sighted covering many square miles and reaching thirty
feet into the deep, in which the creatures of the sea die in shoals. In some of
the rarer varieties of plaice, crucian or bream, the females, in a bizarre
mutation, are increasingly developing male sexual organs and the ritual
patterns of courtship are now no more than a dance of death, the exact
opposite of the notion of the wondrous increase and perpetuation of life with
which we grew up. It was not without reason that the herring was always a
popular didactic model in primary school, the principal emblem, as it were,
of the indestructibility of Nature. I well recall one of those flickering short
films that teachers could borrow from local film and slide libraries in the
Fifties, which showed a trawler from Wilhelmshaven in almost total
darkness riding waves that towered to the top of the screen. By night, it
appeared, the nets were cast, and by night they were hauled in again.

Everything happened as if in a black void, relieved only by the gleam of the
white underbellies of the fish, piled high on the deck, and of the salt they
were mixed with. In my memory of that school film I see men in their
shining black oilskins working heroically as the angry sea crashes over them
time upon time—herring fishing regarded as a supreme example of
mankind's struggle with the power of Nature. Towards the end, as the boat is
approaching its home port, the rays of the evening sun break through the
clouds, spreading their glow over the now becalmed waters. One of the
seamen, washed and combed, plays on a mouth organ. The captain, with the
air of a man mindful of his responsibilities, stands at the helm, looking ahead
into the distance. At last the catch is unloaded and we see the work in the
halls where women's hands gut the herring, sort them according to size, and
pack them in barrels. Then (so says the booklet accompanying the 1936
film), the railway goods wagons take in this restless wanderer of the seas and
transport it to those places where its fate on this earth will at last be fulfilled.
I have read elsewhere, in a volume on the natural history of the North Sea
published in Vienna in 1857, that untold millions of herrings rise from
the lightless depths in the spring and summer months, to spawn in coastal
waters and shallows, where they lie one on top of another in layers. And a
statement ending with an exclamation mark informs us that each female
herring lays seventy thousand eggs, which, according to Buffon's

calculation, would shortly produce a volume of fish twenty times the size of
the earth, if they were all to develop unhindered. Indeed, the records note
years in which the entire herring fisheries threatened to go under, beneath a
truly catastrophic glut of herring. It is even said that vast shoals of herring
were brought in towards the beaches by the wind and the tides and cast
ashore, covering miles of the coast to a depth of two feet and more. The
local people were able to salvage only a small portion of these herring
harvests in baskets and crates; the remainder rotted within days, affording
the terrible sight of Nature suffocating on its own surfeit. On the other hand,
there were repeated occasions when the herring avoided their usual grounds
and whole stretches of coastline were impoverished as a result. The routes
the herring take through the sea have not been ascertained to this day. It has
been supposed that variations in the level of light and the prevailing winds
influence the course of their wanderings, or geomagnetic fields, or the
shifting marine isotherms, but none of these speculations has proved
verifiable. For this reason, those who go in pursuit of herring have always
relied on their traditional knowledge, which draws upon legend, and is based
on their own observation of facts such as the tendency of the fish, swimming
in even, wedge-shaped formations, to reflect a pulsating glow skyward when
the sunlight falls at a particular angle. One dependable sign that herring are
present is said to be myriads of scales floating on the surface of the water,
shimmering like tiny silver tiles by day and sometimes at dusk resembling
ashes or snow. Once the herring shoal had been sighted, it was fished during
the following night, and this was done, according to the natural history of the
North Sea already quoted, using nets two hundred feet long that could take
almost a quarter of a million fish. These nets were made of coarse Persian
silk and dyed black, since experience had shown that a lighter colour scared
the herring off. The nets do not enclose the catch, but rather present a kind of
wall in the water which the fish swim up against in desperation until at
length their gills catch in the mesh; they are then throttled during the near-
eight-hour process of hauling up and winding in the nets. Because of this, by
far the majority of the herrings are lifeless by the time they are hoisted out of
the water. Earlier natural historians such as M. de Lacépède therefore tended
to suppose that herring die the instant they are removed from water, from
some form of infarct or other cause. Since all authorities were soon agreed in
ascribing this particular characteristic to the herring, much attention was
long paid to eye-witness accounts of herrings remaining alive out of the

water. Thus it is recorded that a Canadian missionary by the name of Pierre
Sagard watched a batch of herring thrashing about for some time on the deck
of a fishing boat off the Newfoundland coast, and that one Herr Neucrantz of
Stralsund meticulously chronicled the final throes of a herring that had been
taken from the water one hour and seven minutes before the time of its
death. Again, the inspector of the Rouen fish market, a certain Noel de
Marinière, one day saw to his astonishment that a pair of herring that had
already been out of the water between two and three hours were still moving,
a circumstance that prompted him to investigate more closely the fishes'
capacity to survive, which he did by cutting off their fins and mutilating
them in other ways. This process, inspired by our thirst for knowledge,
might be described as the most extreme of the sufferings undergone by a
species always threatened by disaster. What is not eaten at the spawn stage
by haddock and sucker fish ends up inside a conger eel, dogfish, cod or one
of the many others that prey on herring, including, not least, ourselves. As
early as 1670, more than eight hundred thousand Dutch and Friesians, a not
inconsiderable part of the entire population, were employed in herring
fishing. A hundred years later, the number of herring caught annually is
estimated to have been sixty billion. Given these quantities, the natural
historians sought consolation in the idea that humanity was responsible for
only a fraction of the endless destruction wrought in the cycle of life, and
moreover in the assumption that the peculiar physiology of the fish left them
free of the fear and pains that rack the bodies and souls of higher animals in
their death throes. But the truth is that we do not know what the herring
feels. All we know is that its internal structure is extremely intricate and
consists of more than two hundred different bones and cartilages.

Among the herring's most striking external features are its powerful tail
fin, the narrow head, the slightly prominent lower mandible, and its large
eye, with a black pupil swimming in the silvery-white iris. The herring's
dorsal area is of a bluish-green colour. The individual scales on its flanks and
belly shimmer a golden orange but taken together they present a metallic,
pure white gleam. Held against the light, the rearward parts of the fish
appear a dark green of a beauty one sees nowhere else. Once the life has fled
the herring, its colours change. Its back turns blue, the cheeks and gills red,
suffused with blood. An idiosyncrasy peculiar to the herring is that, when
dead, it begins to glow; this property, which resembles phosphorescence and
is yet altogether different, peaks a few days after death and then ebbs away
as the fish decays. For a long time no one could account for this glowing of
the lifeless herring, and indeed I believe that it still remains unexplained.
Around 1870, when projects for the total illumination of our cities were
everywhere afoot, two English scientists with the
apt names of Herrington and Lightbown investigated the unusual
phenomenon in the hope that the luminous substance exuded by dead
herrings would lead to a formula for an organic source of light that had the
capacity to regenerate itself. The failure of this eccentric undertaking, as I
read some time ago in a history of artificial light, constituted no more than a
negligible setback in the relentless conquest of darkness.

I had long left the beach fishermen behind me when, in the early
afternoon, I reached Benacre Broad, a lake of brackish water beyond a bank
of shingle halfway between Lowestoft and Southwold. The lake is encircled
by deciduous woodland that is now dying, owing to the steady erosion of the
coastline by the sea. Doubtless it is only a matter of time before one stormy
night the shingle bank is broken, and the appearance of the entire area
changes. But that day, as I sat on the tranquil shore, it was possible to believe
one was gazing into eternity. The veils of mist that drifted inland that
morning had cleared, the vault of the sky was empty and blue, not the
slightest breeze was stirring, the trees looked painted, and not a single bird
flew across the velvet-brown water. it was as if the world were under a bell
jar, until great cumulus clouds brewed up out of the west casting a grey
shadow upon the earth.
Perhaps it was that darkening that called to my mind an article I had
clipped from the Eastern Daily Press several months before, on the death of
Major George Wyndham Le Strange, whose great stone manor house in
Henstead stood beyond the lake. During the last War, the report read, Le
Strange served in the anti-tank regiment that liberated the camp at Bergen
Belsen on the 14th of April 1945,

but immediately after VE-Day returned home from Germany to manage
his great uncle's estates in Suffolk, a task he had fulfilled in exemplary
manner, at least until the mid-Fifties, as I knew from other sources. It was at
that time too that Le Strange took on the housekeeper to whom he eventually
left his entire fortune: his estates in Suffolk as well as property in the centre
of Birmingham estimated at several million pounds. According to the
newspaper report, Le Strange employed this housekeeper, a simple young
woman from Beccles by the name of Florence Barnes, on the explicit
condition that she take the meals she prepared together with him, but in
absolute silence. Mrs Barnes told the newspaper herself that she abided by
this arrangement, once made, even when her employer's way of life became
increasingly odd. Though Mrs Barnes gave only the most reticent of
responses to the reporter's enquiries, my own subsequent investigations
revealed that in the late Fifties Le Strange discharged his household staff and
his labourers, gardeners and administrators one after another, that
thenceforth he lived alone in the great stone house with the silent cook from
Beccles, and that as a result the whole estate, with its gardens and park,
became overgrown and neglected, while scrub and undergrowth encroached
on the fallow fields. Apart from comments that touched upon these matters
of fact, stories concerning the Major himself were in circulation in the
villages that bordered on his domain, stories to which one can lend only a
limited credence. They drew, I imagine, on the little that reached the outside
world over the years, rumours from the depths of the estate that occupied the
people who lived in the immediate vicinity. Thus in a Henstead hostelry, for
example, I

heard it said that in his old age, since he had worn out his wardrobe and
saw no point in buying new clothes, Le Strange would wear garments dating
from bygone days which he fetched out of chests in the attic as he needed
them. There were people who claimed to have seem him on occasion dressed
in a canary-yellow frock coat or a kind of mourning robe of faded violet
taffeta with numerous buttons and eyes. Le Strange, who had always kept a
tame cockerel in his room, was reputed to have been surrounded, in later
years, by all manner of feathered creatures: by guinea fowl, pheasants,
pigeons and quail, and various kinds of garden and song birds, strutting
about him on the floor or flying around in the air. Some said that one
summer Le Strange dug a cave in his garden and sat in it day and night like
St Jerome in the desert. Most curious of all was a legend that I presume to
have originated with the Wrentham undertaker's staff, to the effect that the
Major's pale skin was olive-green when he passed away, his goose-grey eye
was pitch-dark, and his snow-white hair had turned to raven-black. To this
day I do not know what to make of such stories. One thing is certain: the
estate and all its adjunct properties was bought at auction by a Dutchman last
autumn, and Florence Barnes, the Major's loyal housekeeper, lives now with
her sister Jemima in a bungalow in her home town of Beccles, as she had
intended.
A quarter of an hour's walk south of Benacre Broad, where the beach
narrows and a stretch of sheer coastline begins, a few dozen dead trees lie in
a confused heap where they fell years ago from the Covehithe cliffs.
Bleached by salt water, wind and sun, the broken, barkless wood looks like
the bones of some extinct species, greater even than the mammoths and
dinosaurs, that came to grief long since on this solitary strand. The footpath
leads around the tangle through a bank of gorse, up to the loamy cliff-head,
and there it continues amidst bracken, the tallest of which stood as high as
my shoulder, not far from the ledge, which is constantly threatening to
crumble away. Out on the leaden-coloured sea a sailing boat kept me
company, or rather, it seemed to me as if it were motionless and I myself,
step by step, were making as little progress as

that invisible spirit aboard his unmoving barque. But by degrees the
bracken thinned, affording a view of a field that extended as far as Covehithe
church. Beyond a low electric fence lay a herd of almost a hundred head of
swine, on brown earth where meagre patches of camomile grew. I climbed
over the wire and approached one of the ponderous, immobile, sleeping

animals. As I bent towards it, it opened a small eye fringed with light lashes
and gave me an enquiring look. I ran my hand across its dusty back, and it
trembled at this unwonted touch; I stroked its snout and face, and chucked it
in the hollow behind one ear, till at length it sighed like one enduring endless
suffering. When I stood up, it closed its eye once more with an expression of
profound submissiveness. For a while I sat on the grass between the electric
fence and the cliff edge. The thin, yellowing blades of grass were bending in
the rising wind. The sky was darkening as banks of cloud were piling far out
across the sea, which was now streaked with white. All of a sudden, the boat,
which for so long had not moved, was gone. The scene reminded me of the
story St Mark the evangelist tells, of the country of the Gadarenes, which
follows the far better-known account of the calming of the storm on the Sea
of Galilee. Neatly as the image of the doubting disciples waking their master
from his untroubled sleep when the waves beat into the ship fitted the school
catechism, there was little understanding of what the story of the mad
Gadarene meant. I at least could not recall its ever being read to us in our so-
called religious knowledge lessons or at church, much less explained. The
raging maniac, of whom it is said that he came out of the tombs where he
dwelt, was possessed of so violent an unclean spirit that he could not be
bound or tamed. He plucked asunder the chains, and broke the fetters in
pieces. Always he was in the mountains, writes St Mark, and in the tombs,
crying, and cutting himself with stones. Asked his name, he answered: My
name is Legion: for we are many. And he besought the Lord not to send him
away out of the country. But the Lord commanded the unclean spirits to
enter the herd of swine feeding there. And the swine, some two thousand
according to the evangelist, plunged down a steep slope and drowned in the
sea. Is this terrible story, I asked myself, as I sat overlooking the German
Ocean, the report of a credible witness? If so, does that not mean that in
healing the Gadarene Our Lord committed a serious error of judgement? Or
was this parable made up by the evangelist, I wondered, to explain the
supposed uncleanliness of swine; which would imply that human reasoning,
diseased as it is, needs to seize on some other kind that it can take to be
inferior and thus desiring of annihilation? As these things were going
through my mind I was watching the sand martins darting to and fro over the
sea. Ceaselessly emitting their tiny cries, they sped along their flightpaths
faster than my eyes could follow them. At earlier times, in the summer
evenings during my childhood when I had watched from the valley as

swallows circled in the last light, still in great numbers in those days, I
would imagine that the world was held together by the courses they flew
through the air. Many years later, in Tlön, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius, which was
written in 1940 at Salto Oriental in Argentina, I read of how a few birds
saved an entire amphitheatre. The sand martins, I now saw, were flying
solely at the level that extended from the top of the cliff where I was sitting
out into empty space. Not one of them climbed higher or dived lower, to the
water below them. Whenever they came towards me, fast as bullets, some
seemed to vanish right beneath my feet, as if into the very ground. I went to
the edge of the cliff and saw that they had dug their nesting holes into the
topmost layer of clay, one beside the other. I was thus standing on perforated
ground, as it were, which might have given way at any moment.
Nevertheless, I laid my head back as far as I could, as I did as a boy for a
dare on the flat tin roof of the two-storey apiary, fixed my eyes on the zenith,
then lowered my gaze till it met the horizon, and drew it in across the water,
to the narrow strip of beach some twenty yards below. As I tried to suppress
the mounting sense of dizziness, breathing out and taking a step backwards, I
thought I saw something of an odd, pallid colour move on the shoreline. I
crouched down and, overcome by a sudden panic, looked over the edge. A
couple lay down there, in the bottom of the pit, as I thought: a man stretched
full length over another body of which nothing was visible but the legs,
spread and angled. In the startled moment when that image went through me,
which lasted an eternity, it seemed as if the man's feet twitched like those of
one just hanged. Now, though, he lay still, and the woman too was still and
motionless. Misshapen, like some great mollusc washed ashore, they lay
there, to all appearances a single being, a many-limbed, two-headed monster
that had drifted in from far out at sea, the last of a prodigious species, its life
ebbing from it with each breath expired through its nostrils. Filled with
consternation, I stood up once more, shaking as if it were the first time in my
life that I had got to my feet, and left the place, which seemed fearsome to
me now, taking the path that descended from the cliff-top to where the beach
spread out on the southerly side. Far off in front of me lay Southwold, a
cluster of distant buildings, clumps of trees, and a snow-white lighthouse,
beneath a dark sky. Before I reached the town, the first drops of rain were
falling. I turned to look back down the deserted stretch I had come by, and
could no longer have said whether I had really seen the pale sea monster at
the foot of the Covehithe cliffs or whether I had imagined it.

Recalling the uncertainty I then felt brings me back to the Argentinian
tale I have referred to before, a tale which deals with our attempts to invet
secondary or tertiary worlds. The narrator describes dining with Adolfo Bioy
Casares in a house in Calle Gaona in Ramos Mejìa one evening in 1935. He
relates that after dinner they had a long and rambling talk about the writing
of a novel that would fly in the face of palpable facts and become entangled
in contradictions in such a way that few readers—very few readers—would
be able to grasp the hidden, horrific, yet at the same time quite meaningless
point of the narrative. At the end of the passage that led to the room where
we were sitting, the author continues, hung an oval, half-fogged mirror that
had a somewhat disquieting effect. We felt that this dumb witness was
keeping a watch on us, and thus we discovered—discoveries of this kind are
almost always made in the dead of night—that there is something sinister
about mirrors. Bioy Casares then recalled the observation of one of the
heresiarchs of Uqbar, that the disturbing thing about mirrors, and also the act
of copulation, is that they multiply the number of human beings. I asked
Bioy Casares for the source of this memorable remark, the author writes, and

he told me that it was in the entry on Uqbar in the Anglo-American
Cyclopaedia. As the story goes on, however, it is revealed that this entry is
nowhere to be found in the encyclopaedia in question, or rather, it appears
uniquely in the copy bought years earlier by Bioy Casares, the twenty-sixth
volume of which contains four pages that are not in any other copy of the
edition in question, that of 1917. It thus remains unclear whether Uqbar ever
existed or whether the description of this unknown country might not be a
case similar to that of Tlön, the encylopaedists' project to which the main
portion of the narrative in question is devoted and which aimed at creating a
new reality, in the course of time, by way of the unreal. The labyrinthine
construction of Tlön, reads a note added to the text in 1947, is on the point of
blotting out the known world. The language of Tlön, which hitherto no one
had mastered, has now invaded the academies; already the history of Tlön
has superseded all that we formerly knew or thought we knew; in
historiography, the indisputable advantages of a fictitious past have become
apparent. Almost every branch of learning has been reformed. A ramified
dynasty of hermits, the dynasty of the Tlön inventors, encyclopaedists and
lexicographers, has changed the face of the earth. Every language, even
Spanish, French and English, will disappear from the planet. The world will
be Tlön. But, the narrator concludes, what is that to me? In that peace and
quiet of my country villa I continue to hone my tentative translation,
schooled on Quevedo, of Thomas Browne's Urn Burial (which I do not
mean to publish).
4
The rain clouds had dispersed when, after dinner, I took my first walk
around the streets and lanes of the town. Darkness was falling, and only the
lighthouse with its shining glass cabin still caught the last luminous rays that
came in from the western horizon.

Footsore and weary as I was after my long walk from Lowestoft, I saw
down on a beach on the green called Gunhill and looked out on the tranquil
sea, from the depths of which the shadows were now rising. Everyone who
had been out for an evening stroll was gone. I felt as if I were in a deserted
theatre, and I should not have been surprised if a curtain had suddenly risen
before me and on the proscenium I had beheld, say, the 28th of May 1672—
that memorable day when the Dutch fleet appeared offshore from out of the
drifting mists, with the bright morning light behind it, and opened fire on the
English ships in Sole Bay. In all likelihood the people of Southwold hurried
out of the town as soon as the first cannonades were fired to watch the rare
spectacle from the beach. Shading their eyes with their hands against the
dazzling sun, they would have watched the ships moving hither and thither,
apparently at random, their sails billowing in a light northeast wind and then,
as they manoeuvred ponderously, flapping once again. They would not have
been able to make out human figures at that distance, not even the gentlemen
of the Dutch and English admiralties on the bridges. As the battle continued,

the powder magazines exploded, and some of the tarred hulls burned down
to the waterline; the scene would have been shrouded in an acrid, yellowish-
black smoke creeping across the entire bay and masking the combat from
view. While most of the accounts of the battles fought on the so-called fields
of honour have from time immemorial been unreliable, the pictorial
representations of great naval engagements are without exception figments
of the imagination. Even celebrated painters such as Storck, van der Velde or
de Loutherbourg, some of whose versions of the Battle of Sole Bay I studied
closely in the Maritime Museum in Greenwich, fail to convey any true
impression of how it must have been to be on board one of these ships,
already overloaded with equipment and men, when burning masts and sails
began to fall or cannonballs smashed into the appallingly overcrowded
decks.
On the Royal James alone, which was set aflame by a fireship, nearly
half the thousand-strong crew perished. No details of the end of the three-
master have come down to us. There were eye-witnesses who claimed to
have seen the commander of the English fleet, the Earl of Sandwich, who
weighed almost twenty-four stone, gesticulating on the afterdeck as the

flames encircled him. All we know for certain is that his bloated body was
washed up on the beach near Harwich a few weeks later. The seams of his
uniform had burst asunder, the buttonholes were torn open, yet the Order of
the Garter still gleamed in undiminished splendour. At that date there can
have only been a few cities on earth that numbered as many souls as were
annihilated in sea-battles of this kind. The agony that was endured and the
enormity of the havoc wrought defeat our powers of comprehension, just as
we cannot conceive the vastness of the effort that must have been required—
from felling and preparing the timber, mining and smelting the ore, and
forging the iron, to weaving and sewing the sailcloth—to build and equip
vessels that were almost all predestined for destruction. For a brief time only
these curious creatures sailed the seas, moved by the winds that circle the
earth, bearing names such as Stavoren, Resolution, Victory, Groot Hollandia
and Olyfan, and then they were gone. It has never been determined, which of
the two parties in the naval battle fought off Southwold to extort trading
advantages emerged victorious. It is certain, however, that the decline of the
Netherlands began here, with a shift in the balance of power so small that it
was out of proportion to the human and material resources expended in the
battle; while on the other hand the English government, almost bankrupt,
diplomatically isolated, and humiliated by the Dutch raid on Chatham, was
now able, despite a complete absence of strategic thinking and a naval
administration on the verge of disintegration, and thanks only to the vagaries
of the wind and the waves that day, to commence the sovereignty at sea that
was to be unbroken for so long. —As I sat there that evening in Southwold
overlooking the German Ocean, I sensed quite clearly the earth's slow
turning into the dark. The huntsmen are up in America, writes Thomas
Browne in The Garden of Cyrus, and they are already past their first sleep in
Persia. The shadow of night is drawn like a black veil across the earth, and
since almost all creatures, from one meridian to the next, lie down after the
sun has set, so, he continues, one might, in following the setting sun, see on
our globe nothing but prone bodies, row upon row, as if levelled by the
scythe of Saturn—an endless graveyard for a humanity struck by falling
sickness. I gazed farther and farther out to sea, to where the darkness was
thickest and where there extended a cloudbank of the most curious shape,
which I could barely make out any longer, the rearward view, I presume, of
the storm that had broken over Southwold in the late afternoon. For a while,
the topmost summit regions of this massif, dark as ink, glistened like the

icefields of the Caucasus, and as I watched the glare fade I remembered that
years before, in a dream, I had once walked the entire length of a mountain
range just as remote and just as unfamiliar. It must have been a distance of a
thousand miles or more, through ravines, gorges and valleys, across ridges,
slopes and drifts, along the edges of great forests, over wastes of rock, shale
and snow. And I recalled that in my dream, once I had reached the end of my
journey, I looked back, and that it was six o'clock in the evening. The jagged
peaks of the mountains I had left behind rose in almost fearful silhouette
against a turquoise sky in which two or three pink clouds drifted. It was a
scene that felt familiar in an inexplicable way, and for weeks it was on my
mind until at length I realized that, down to the last detail, it matched the
Vallüla massif, which I had seen from the bus, through eyes drooping with
tiredness, a day or so before I started school, as we returned home from an
outing to the Montafon. I suppose it is submerged memories that give to
dreams their curious air of hyper-reality. But perhaps there is something else
as well, something nebulous, gauze-like, through which everything one sees
in a dream seems, paradoxically, much clearer. A pond becomes a lake, a
breeze becomes a storm, a handful of dust is a desert, a grain of sulphur in
the blood is a volcanic inferno. What manner of theatre is it, in which we are
at once playwright, actor, stage manager, scene painter and audience?
Just as these things have always been beyond my understanding, so too I
found it impossible to believe, as I sat on Gunhill in Southwold that evening,
that just one year earlier I had been looking across to English from a beach
in Holland. On that occasion, following a bad night spent at Baden in
Switzerland, I had travelled via Basle and Amsterdam to The Hague, where I
had taken a room in one of the less salubrious hotels near the station. I no
longer remember whether it was the Lord Asquith, the Aristo, or the Fabiola.
At all events, in the lobby of this establishment, which would deeply have
depressed even the humblest of travellers, there sat two gentlemen, no longer
in their first youth, who must have been partners for a long time; and
between them, in the stead of a child, as it were, was an apricot-coloured
poodle. After I had rested a little in the room I was allotted, I went for a
stroll, looking for a bite to eat, up the road that runs from the station to the
city centre, past the Bristol Bar, Yuksel's Café, a video library, Aran Turk's
pizza place, a Euro-sex-shop, a halal butcher's, and a carpet store, above
whose display a rudimentary fresco in four parts showed a caravan crossing
the desert. The name Perzenpaleis was lettered in red on the façade of the

run-down building, the upper-storey windows of which were all white-
washed over.
As I was looking up at this façade, a man with a dark beard, wearing a
suit jacket over a long tunic, slipped past me through a doorway, so close
that our elbows touched. Through that doorway, for an unforgettable
moment that seemed to exist outside time, I glimpsed the wooden rack on
which perhaps a hundred pairs of well-worn shoes had been placed beside
and above one another. Only later did I see the minaret rising from the
courtyard of the building into the azure Dutch evening sky. For an hour or
more I walked around this somehow extraterritorial part of town. Most of the
windows in the side streets were boarded up, and slogans like Help de
regenwouden redeen or Welcome to the Royal Dutch Graveyard were
graffiti'd on the sooty brick walls. No longer able to decide on a place to eat,
I bought a carton of chips at McDonald's, where I felt like a criminal wanted
worldwide as I stood at the brightly lit counter, and ate them as I walked
back to my hotel. Outside the entrances of the entertainment and dining
establishments on the road to the station, small groups of oriental men had
now gathered, most of them smoking in silence while the odd one appeared
to be doing a deal with a client. When I reached the little canal that crosses
the road, an open-top American limousine studded with lights and gleaming
with chrome glided past me across the carriageway as if it had come out of

nowhere, and in it sat a pimp in a white suit, wearing gold-framed sunglasses
and on his head a ludicrous Tyrolean hat. And as I stood gazing in
amazement after this almost supernatural apparition, a dark-skinned man
shot round the corner towards me, sheer terror in his face, and, swerving to
avoid me, left me full in the path of his pursuer, who, judging by
appearances, was a countryman of his. This pursuer, whose eyes were
shining with rage and blood lust, was probably a chef or kitchen porter, since
he was wearing an apron and holding a long, glinting knife in one hand,
which passed by me so close that I imagined I felt it piercing between my
ribs. Disturbed by the impression this experience made on me, I lay on my
bed in my hotel room. I did not have a good night. It was so oppressive and
sultry that one could not leave the windows closed; but if one opened them,
one heard the din of traffic from the crossroads and every few minutes the
dreadful squeal of the tram as it ground round the terminus track-loop. I was
therefore not in the best of states next morning at the Mauritshuis when I
stood before the large group portrait, The Anatomy Lesson. Although I had
gone to The Hague especially to see this painting, which would continue to
occupy me considerably over the years to come, I was so out of sorts after
my bad night that I was quite unable to harness my thoughts as I looked at
the body being dissected under the eyes of the Guild of Surgeons. Indeed,
without knowing why, I was so affected by the paintings that later it took me
a full hour to recover, in front of Jacob van Ruisdael's View of Haarlem with
Bleaching Fields. The flatland stretching out towards Haarlem is seen from
above, from a vantage point generally identified as the dunes, though the
sense of a bird's-eye view is so strong that the dunes would have to be
veritable hills or even modest mountains. The truth is of course that Ruisdael
did not take up a position on the dunes in order to paint; his vantage point
was an imaginary position some distance above the earth. Only in this way
could he see it all together: the vast cloudscape that occupies two thirds of
the picture; the town, which is little more than a fraying of the horizon,
except for St Bavo's cathedral, which towers above all the other buildings;
the dark bosks and bushes; the farm in the foreground; and the bright field
where the sheets of white linen have been laid out to bleach and where, by
my count, seven or eight people no taller than a quarter of an inch are going
about their work. After I left the gallery, I sat for a while on the sunlit steps
of the palais which Governor Johann Maurits, as the guidebook I had bought
informed me, had built in his homeland whilst he was in Brazil for seven

years and fitted out as a cosmographic residence reflecting the wonders of
the remotest regions of the earth, in keeping with his personal motto: "Even
unto the limits of our world". Report has it that when the house was opened
in May 1644, three hundred years before I was born, eleven Indians the
Governor had brought with him from Brazil performed a dance on the
cobbled square in front of the new building, conveying to the townspeople
some sense of the foreign lands to which the power of their community now
extended. These dancers, about whom nothing else is known, have long
since disappeared, as soundless as shadows, as silent as the heron I saw
when I set off once more, flying just above the shining surface of the water,
the beat of its wings calm and even, undisturbed by the traffic creeping along
the bank of the FHofvijver. Who can say how things were in ages past?
Diderot, in one of his travel journals, described Holland as the Egypt of
Europe, where one might cross the fields in a boat, and, as far as the eye
could see, there would be scarcely anything to break the flooded surface of
the plain. In that curious country, he wrote, the most modest rise gave one
the loftiest sensation. And for Diderot there was nothing more satisfying to
the human mind than the neat Dutch towns with their straight, tree-lined
canals, exemplary in every respect. Settlement succeeded settlement just as
if they had been conjured up overnight by the hand of an artist in accordance
with some carefully worked-out plan, wrote Diderot, and even in the heart of
the largest of them one still felt one was out in the country. The Hague, at
that time with a population of about forty thousand, he felt was the loveliest
village on earth, and the road from the town to the strand at Scheveningen a
promenade without equal. It was not easy to appreciate these observations as
I walked along Parkstraat towards Scheveningen. Here and there stood a fine
villa in its garden, but otherwise there was nothing to afford me any respite.
Perhaps I had gone the wrong way, as so often in unfamiliar cities. In
Scheveningen, where I had hoped to be able to see the sea from a distance, I
walked for a long time in the shadow of tall apartment blocks, as if at the
bottom of a ravine. When at last I reached the beach I was so tired that I lay
down and slept till afternoon. I heard the surge of the sea, and, half
dreaming, understood every word of Dutch and for the first time in my life
believed I had arrived, and was home. Even when I awoke it seemed to me
for a moment that my people were resting all around me as we made our
way across the desert. The façade of the Kurhaus towered above me like a
great caravanserai, a comparison which sat well with the fact

that the palatial hotel, built on the beach at the turn of the century, had
numerous modern extensions with roofs resembling tents, housing
newsagents, souvenir shops and fast-food outlets. In one of these, the
Massada Grill, where the illuminated photo-panels above the counter
showed kosher foods instead of the usual hamburger combinations, I had a
cup of tea before returning to the city and marvelled at a beatifically
beaming couple surrounded by the motley host of their grandchildren,
celebrating some family or holiday occasion in a cafeteria otherwise
deserted.
That evening, in Amsterdam, I sat in the peace of the lounge of a private
hotel by the Vondel Park, which I knew from earlier visits, and made notes
on the stations of my journey, now almost at an end: the days I had spent on
various enquiries at Bad Kissingen, the panic attack in Baden, the boat
excursion on Lake Zurich, my run of good luck at the casino in Lindau, and
my visits to the Alte Pinakothek in Munich and to the grave of my patron
saint in Nuremberg, of whom legend has it that he was the son of a king,
from Dacia or Denmark, who married a French princess in Paris. During the
wedding night, the story goes, he was afflicted with a sense of profound

unworthiness. Today, he is supposed to have said to his bride, our bodies are
adorned, but tomorrow they will be food for worms. Before the break of day,
he fled, making a pilgrimage to Italy, where he lived in solitude until he felt
the power to work miracles arising within him. After saving the Anglo-
Saxon princes Winnibald and Wunibald from certain starvation with a loaf
baked from ashes and brought to them by a celestial messenger, and after
preaching a celebrated sermon in Vicenza, he went over the Alps to
Germany. At Regensburg he crossed the Danube on his cloak, and there
made a broken glass whole again; and, in the house of a wheelwright too
mean to spare the kindling, lit a fir with icicles. This story of the burning of
the frozen substance of life has, of late, meant much to me, and I wonder
now whether inner coldness and desolation may not be the pre-condition fro
making the world believe, by a kind of fraudulent showmanship, that one's
own wretched heart is still aglow. Be that as it may, my namesake is said to
have performed many more miracles in his hermitage in the imperial forests
between the rivers Regnitz and Pegnitz, and to have healed the sick, before
his corpse, as he had ordained, was borne on a cart drawn by two oxen to the
place where his grave is to this day. Centuries later, in May 1507, the
Patriciate of Nuremberg resolved to have a brass sarcophagus crafted for the
holy prince of heaven St Sebolt by master smith Peter Vischner. In June
1519, when his twelve-year labours were completed, the great monument,
weighing many tons, standing almost five yards high on twelve snails and
four curved dolphins, and representing the entire order of salvation,

was installed in the chancel of the church consecrated in the name of the
city's saint. On the base of the tomb, fauns, mermaids, fabulous creatures
and animals of every conceivable description throng about the four cardinal

virtues of Justice, Prudence, Temperance and Fortitude. Above them are
mythical figures—Nimrod the hunter, Hercules with his club, Samson with
the jawbone of an ass, and the god Apollo between two swans—along with
representations of the miracle of the burning of ice, the feeding of the
hungry, and the conversion of a heretic. Then come the apostles with their
emblems and the instruments of their martyrdom, and, crowning all, the
celestial city with its three pinnacles and many mansions, Jerusalem, the
fervently longed-for bride, God's tabernacle amongst mankind, the image of
an other, renewed life. And in the heart of this reliquary cast in a single
piece, surrounded by eighty angels, in a shrine of sheet silver, lie the bones
of the exemplary dead man, the harbinger of a time when the tears will be
wiped from our eyes and there will be no more grief, or pain, or weeping and
wailing.
Night had fallen and I sat in the darkness of my room on the top floor of
the Vondel Park Hotel and listened to the stormy gusts buffeting the crowns
of the trees. From afar came the rumble of thunder. Pallid sheet lightning
streaked the horizon. At about one o'clock, when I heard the first drops
rattling on the metal roof, I leant out of the window into the warm, storm-
filled air. Soon the rain was pouring down into the shadowy depths of the
park, which flared from time to time as if lit up by Bengal fire. The water in
the gutter gurgled like a mountain stream. Once, when lightning again
flashed across the sky, I looked down into the hotel garden far below me,
and there, in the broad ditch that runs between the garden and the park, in
the shelter of an overhanging willow, I saw a solitary mallard, motionless on
the garish green surface of the water. This image emerged from the darkness,
for a fraction of a second, with such perfect clarity that I can still see every
individual willow leaf, the myriad green scales of duckweed, the subtlest
nuances in the fowl's plumage, and even the pores in the lid closed over its
eye.
Next morning, the atmosphere at Schiphol airport was so strangely
muted that one might have thought one was already a good way beyond this
world. As if they were under sedation or moving through time stretched and
expanded, the passengers wandered the halls or, standing still on the
escalators, were delivered to their various destinations on high or
underground. In the train from Amsterdam, leafing through Lévi-Strauss's
Tristes Tropiques, I had come across a description of the Campos Elyseos, a
street in São Paulo where the colourfully painted wooden villas and

residences, built at the turn of the century by the wealthy in a kind of Swiss
fantasy style, were falling to pieces in gardens overgrown with eucalyptus
and mango trees. Perhaps that was why the airport, filled with a murmuring
whisper, seemed to me that morning like an ante room of that undiscovered
country from whose bourn no traveller returns. Every now and then the
announcers' voices, disembodied and intoning their messages like angels,
would call someone's name. Passagiers Sandberg en Stromberg naar
Copenhagen. Mr Freeman to Lagos. La señora Rodrigo, por favor. Sooner or
later the call would come for each and every one of those waiting here. I sat
down on one of the upholstered benches where travellers who had spent the
night in this place of transit were still asleep, stretched out unconscious or
curled up. Not far from me was a group of Africans, clad in flowing, snow-
white robes; and opposite me a well-groomed gentleman with a golden fob-
chain crossing his waistcoat was reading a newspaper, on the front page of
which was a photograph of a vast pall of smoke, boiling up like an atomic
mushroom cloud above an atoll. De aswolk boven de Vulkaan Pinatubo read
the headline. Outside, on the tarmac, the summer heat was shimmering, tiny
trucks were beetling to and fro, and from the runway aeroplanes with
hundreds of people aboard rose, one after another into the blue air. For my
part, I must have dozed off for a while as I watched this spectacle, because
presently I heard my name from afar, followed by the injunction Immediate
boarding at Gate C4 please.
The small propeller plane that services the route from Amsterdam to
Norwich first climbed toward the sun before turning west. Spread out
beneath us lay one of the most densely-populated regions in Europe, with
endless terraces, sprawling satellite towns, business parks and shining glass
houses which looked like large quadrangular ice floes drifting across this
corner of the continent where not a patch is left to its own devices. Over the
centuries the land had been regulated, cultivated and built on until the whole
region was transformed into a geometrical pattern. The roads, water channels
and railway tracks ran in straight lines and gentle curves past fields and
plantations, basins and reservoirs. Like beads on an abacus designed to
calculate infinity, cars glided along the lanes of the motorways, while the
ships moving up and down river appeared as if they had been halted for ever.
Embedded in this even fabric lay a manor surrounded by its park, the relic of
an earlier age. I watched the shadow of our plane hastening below us across
hedges, fences, rows of polars and canals. Along a line that seemed to have

been drawn with a ruler a tractor crawled through a field of stubbled,
dividing it into one lighter and one darker half. Nowhere, however was a
single human being to be seen. No matter whether one is flying over
Newfoundland or the sea of lights that stretches from Boston to Philadelphia
after nightfall, over the Arabian deserts which gleam like mother-of-pearl,
over the Ruhr or the city of Frankfurt, it is as though there were no people,
only the things they have made and in which they are hiding. One sees the
places where they live and the roads that link them, one sees the smoke
rising from their houses and factories, one sees the vehicles in which they
sit, but one sees not the people themselves. And yet they are present
everywhere upon the face of the earth, extending their dominion by the hour,
moving around the honeycombs of towering buildings and tied into networks
of a complexity that goes far beyond the power of any one individual to
imagine, from the thousands of hoists and winches that once worked the
South African diamond
mines to the floors of today's stock and commodity exchanges, through
which the global tides of information flow without cease. If we view
ourselves from a great height, it is frightening to realize how little we know
about our species, our purpose and our end, I thought, as we crossed the
coastline and flew out over the jelly-green sea.

Such were my reminiscences concerning my visit to Holland a year
before, as I sat on Gunhill that evening. Now, with an advancing chill in the
air, I sought the familiarity of the streets and soon found myself outside the
Sailors' Reading Room, a charitable establishment housed in a small
building above the promenade, which nowadays, sailors being a dying breed,
serves principally as a kind of maritime museum, where all manner of things
connected with the sea and seafaring life are kept and collected. On the walls
hang barometers and navigational instruments, figureheads, and models of
ships in glass cases and in bottles. On the tables are harbourmasters'
registers, log books, treatises on sailing, various nautical periodicals, and
several volumes with colour plates which show legendary clippers and
ocean-going steamers such as the Conte di Savoia or the Mauritania, giants
of iron and steel, more than three hundred yards long, into which the
Washington Capitol might have fitted, their funnels so tall they vanished into
the low-hanging clouds. The Reading Room in Southwold is opened every
morning at seven (save only on Christmas Day) and remains open until
almost midnight. At best, it attracts a handful of visitors during the holidays,
and the few who do cross the threshold leave again after they have taken a
brief look around in the uncomprehending way characteristic of such
holidaymakers. The Reading Room is thus almost always deserted but for
one or two of the surviving fishermen and seafarers sitting in silence in the
armchairs, whiling the hours away. Sometimes, in the evenings, they play a
game of pool in the back room. Apart from the muffled sound of the sea and
the clicking of the balls there is nothing to be heard then, except perhaps,
from time to time, the slight scratching noise made by a player priming his
cue and the short puff when he blows off the chalk. Whenever I am in
Southwold, the Sailors' Reading Room is by far my favourite haunt. It is
better than anywhere else for reading, writing letters, following one's
thoughts, or in the long winter months simply looking out at the stormy sea
as it crashes on the promenade. So on this occasion too I went to the Reading
Room the morning after my arrival in Southwold, intending to make notes
on what I had seen the previous day. At first, as on some of my earlier visits,
I leafed through the log of the Southwold, a patrol ship that was anchored off
the pier from autumn of 1914. On the large landscape-format pages, a fresh
one for each new date, there are occasional entries surrounded by a good
deal of empty space, reading, for instance, Maurice Farman Bi-plane N'ward
Inland or White Steam-yacht Flying White Ensign Cruising on Horizon to S.

Every time I decipher one of these entries I am astounded that a trail that has
long since vanished from the air or the water remains visible here on the
paper. That morning, as I closed the marbled cover of the log book,
pondering the mysterious survival of the written word, I noticed lying to one
side on the table a thick, tattered tome that I had not seen before on my visits
to the Reading Room. It turned out to be a photographic history of the First
World War, compiled and published in 1933 by the Daily Express, to mark
the past tragedy, and perhaps as a warning of another approaching. Every
theatre of war is documented in this compendious collection, from the Vall'
Inferno on the Austro-Italian Alpine front to Flanders fields. There are
illustrations of all conceivable forms of violent death, from the shooting
down of a single aviation pioneer over the Somme estuary to the mass
slaughter in the swamps of Galicia, and pictures of French towns reduced to
rubble, corpses rotting in the no-man's-land between the trenches, woodlands
razed by artillery fire, battleships sinking under black clouds of petroleum
smoke, armies on the march, never-ending streams of refugees, shattered
zeppelins, scenes from Prszemysl and St Quentin, from Montfaucon and
Gallipoli, scenes of destruction, mutilation, desecration, starvation,
conflagration, and freezing cold. The titles are almost without exception
bitterly ironic—

When Cities Deck Their Streets for War! This was a Forest! This was a
Man! There is some Corner of a Foreign Field that is Forever England! One
section of the book is devoted to the chaos in the Balkans, a part of the world
which was further removed from England then than Lahore or Omdurman.
Page after page of pictures from Serbia, Bosnia and Albania show scattered
groups of people and stray individuals trying to escape the War by ox-cart, in
the heat of summer, along dusty country roads, or on foot through drifting
snow with a pony half-dead with exhaustion. The chronicle of disaster opens
with the notorious snapshot from Sarajevo. The picture has the caption
Princip Lights the Fuse!
It is the 28th of June 1914, a bright, sunny day, ten forty-five in the
morning. One sees a few Bosnians, some Austrian military personnel, and
the assassin being apprehended. The facing page shows the tunic of
Archduke Franz Ferdinand's uniform, holed by bullets and soaked with
blood, which must have been photographed for the press after being stripped
from the body of the heir to the throne and transferred by rail to the capital
of the empire, where it can be viewed to this day, together with his feather
bushed hat and trousers, in a black-framed reliquary in the army museum.
Gavrilo Princip was the son of a Grahovo valley farmer, and until recently

had been a grammar-school pupil in Belgrade. After being sentenced he was
locked up in the Theresienstadt casemates, and there, in April 1918, he died
of the bone tuberculosis that had been consuming him since his early youth.
In 1993 the Serbs celebrated the seventy-fifth anniversary of his death.
That afternoon I sat alone till tea time in the bar restaurant of the Crown
Hotel. The rattle of crockery in the kitchen had long since subsided; in the
grandfather clock, with its rising and setting sun and a moon that appears at
night, the cogwheels gripped, the pendulum swung from side to side, and the
big hand, bit by bit, in tiny jerks, went its round. For some time I had been
feeling a sense of eternal peace when, leafing through the Independent on
Sunday, I came across an article that was related to the Balkan pictures I had
seen in the Reading Room that morning. The article, which was about the
so-called cleansing operations carried out fifty years ago in Bosnia, by the
Croats together with the Austrians and the Germans, began by describing a
photograph taken as a souvenir by men of the Croatian Ustasha, in which
fello w militiamen in the best of spirits, some of them striking heroic poses,
are sawing off the head of a Serb named Branco Jungic. A second snap
shows the severed head with a cigarette between lips still parted in a last cry
of pain. This happened at Jasenovac camp on the Sava. Seven hundred
thousand men, women and children were killed there alone in ways that
made even the hair of the Reich's experts stand on end, as some of them are
said to have admitted when they were amongst themselves. The preferred
instruments of execution were saws and sabres, axes and hammers, and
leather cuff-bands with fixed blades that were fastened on the lower arm and
made especially in Solingen for the purpose of cutting throats, as well as a
kind of rudimentary crossbar gallows on which the Serbs, Jews and
Bosnians, once rounded

up, were hanged in rows like crows or magpies. Not far from Jasenovac,
in a radius of no more than ten miles, there were also the camps of Prijedor,
Stara Gradiska and Banja Luka, where the Croatian militia, its hands
strengthened by the Wehrmacht and its spirt by the Catholic church,
performed one day's work after another in a similar manner. The history of
this massacre, which went on for years, is recorded in fifty thousand
documents abandoned by the Germans and Croats in 1945, which are kept to
this day, according to the author of the 1992 article, in the Bosanske Krajine
Archive in Banja Lua, which is, or used to be, housed in what was once an
Austro-Hungarian barracks, serving in 1942 as the headquarters of the
Heeregruppe E intelligence division. Without a doubt those who were
stationed there knew what was going on in the Ustasha camps, just as they
knew of the enormities perpetrated during the Kozara campaign against
Tito's partisans, for instance, in the course of which between sixty and ninety
thousand people were killed in so-called acts of war, that is to say were
executed, or died as a result of deportation. The female population of Kozara
was transported to Germany and worked to death in the slave-labour system
that extended over the entire territory of the Reich. Of the children who were
left behind, twenty-three thousand in number, the militia murdered half on
the spot, while the rest were herded together at various assembly points to be

sent on to Croatia; of these, not a few died of typhoid fever, exhaustion and
fear, even before the cattle wagons reached the Croatian capital. Many of
those who were still alive were so hungry that they had eaten the cardboard
identity tags they wore about their necks and thus in their extreme
desperation had eradicated their own names. Later they were brought up as
Catholics in Croatian families, and sent to confession and their first holy
communion. Like everyone else they learnt the socialist ABC at school,
chose an occupation, and became railway workers, salesgirls, tool-fitters or
book-keepers. But no one knows what shadowy memories haunt them to this
day. In this connection one might also add that one of the Heeresgruppe E
intelligence officers at that time was a young Viennese lawyer whose chief
task was to draw up memoranda relating to the necessary resettlements,
described as imperative for humanitarian reasons. For this commendable
paperwork he was awarded by Croatian head of state Ante Paveli&cacute;
the silver medal of the crown of King Zvonomir, with oak leaves. In the
post-war years this officer, who at the very start of his career was so
promising and so very competent in the technicalities of administration,
occupied various high offices, among them that of Secretary General of the
United Nations. And reportedly it was in this last capacity that he spoke onto
tape, for the benefit of any extra-terrestrials that may happen to share our
universe, words of greeting that are now, together with other memorabilia of
mankind, approaching the outer limits of our solar system aboard the space
probe Voyager II.
5
On the second evening of my stay in Southwold, after the late news, the
BBC broadcast a documentary about Roger Casement, who was executed in
a London prison in 1916 for high treason. The images in this film, many of
which were taken

from rare archive footage, immediately captivated me; but nonetheless, I
fell asleep in the green velvet armchair I had pulled up to the television. As
my waking consciousness ebbed away, I could still hear every word of the
narrator's account of Casement with singular clarity, but was unable to grasp
their meaning. And when I emerged hours later, from the depths of a dream,
to see in the first light of dawn the test card quivering in the silent box, all I
could recall was that the programme had begun with an account of
Casement's meeting with the writer Joseph Conrad in the Congo. Conrad
considered Casement the only man of integrity among the Europeans whom
he had encountered there, and who had been corrupted partly by the tropical
climate and partly by their own rapaciousness and greed. I've seen him start
off into an unspeakable wilderness (thus the exact words of a quotation from
Conrad, which has remained in my head) swinging a crook-handled stick,
with two bulldogs: Paddy (white) and Biddy (brindle) at his heels and a
Loanda boy carrying a bundle. A few months afterwards it so happened that
I saw him come out again, leaner, a little browner, with his stick, dogs, and
Loanda boy, and quietly serene as though he had been for a stroll in the park.
Since I had lost the rest of the narrator's account of the lives of Casement
and Conrad, except for these few words and some shadowy images of the
two men, I have since tried to reconstruct from the sources, as far as I have
been able, the story I slept through that night in Southwold.
In the late summer of 1861, Mme Evelina Korzeniowska travelled from
the small Ukrainian town of Zhitomir to Warsaw, with her boy Józef Teodor
Konrad, then not quite five, to join her husband Apollo Korzeniowski, who
that spring had already given up his unrewarding position as an estate

manager with the intention of helping pave the way for a revolt against
Russian tyranny through his writings and by means of conspiratorial politics.
In mid-October the illegal Polish National Committee met for its first
sessions in Korzeniowski's Warsaw flat, and over the next few weeks the
young Konrad doubtless saw many mysterious persons coming and going at
his parents' home. The serious expressions of the gentlemen talking in muted
tones in the white and red salon will have suggested the significance of that
historic hour to him and he may even, at that point, have been initiated into
the clandestine proceedings, and have understood that Mama wore black,
which was expressly forbidden by law, as a token of mourning for her people
suffering the humiliation of foreign rule. If not, he was taken into their
confidence at the end of October at the latest, when his father was arrested
and imprisoned in the citadel. After a cursory hearing before a military
tribunal Apollo Korzeniowski was sentenced to exile in Vologda, a god-
forsaken town somewhere in the wastes beyond Nizhni Novgorod. Vologda,
he wrote in summer 1863 to his Zagórski cousins, is a great three-verst
marsh across which logs and tree trunks are placed parallel to each other in
crooked lines; the houses, even the garishly painted wooden palaces of the
provincial grandees, are erected on piles driven into the morass at intervals.
Everything round about rots, decays and sinks into the ground. There are
only two seasons: the white winter and the green winter. For nine months the
ice-cold air sweeps down from the Arctic sea. The thermometer plunges to
unbelievable depths and one is surrounded by a limitless darkness. During
the green winter it rains week in week out. The mud creeps over the
threshold, rigor mortis is temporarily lifted and a few signs of life, in the
form of an all-pervasive marasmus, begin to manifest themselves. In the
white winter everything is dead, during the green winter everything is dying.
The tuberculosis which had ailed Evelina Korzeniowska for years
advanced unimpeded in these conditions. The days that remained to her were
numbered. When the Czarist authorities granted her a compassionate stay of
sentence in order that she might spend a longer spell on her brother's estate
in the Ukraine, to recover her health, it was no more than an additional
torment; for after the period of reprieve expired she had to return into exile
with Konrad, despite all her petitions and applications and despite the fact
that she was now more dead than alive. On the day of her departure, Evelina
Korzeniowska stood on the steps of the manor house at Nowofastów
surrounded by her relations, the servants, and friends from the neighbouring

domains. Everyone there assembled, apart from the children and those in
livery, is attired in black cloth or black silk. Not a single word is spoken.
grandmother stoically stares out past the sad scene into the deserted
countryside. On the sweeping sandy drive that curves around the circular
yew hedge a bizarre, elongated carriage is waiting. The shafts protrude much
too far forward, and the coachman's box seems a long way from the rear of
the strange conveyance, which is overloaded with trunks and chests of every
description. The carriage is slung low between the wheels as if between two
worlds drifting ever further apart. The carriage door is open, and inside, on
the cracked leather seat, young Konrad has been settled for some time,
watching from the dark the scene he will later describe. Poor Mama,
inconsolable, looks around her for the last time, then descends the steps on
the arm of Uncle Tadeusz. Those who remain behind retain their composure.
Even Konrad's favourite cousin, who is wearing a short skirt of a tartan
pattern and resembles a princess amidst the black-clad gathering, just puts
her fingertips to her lips to indicate her horror at the departure of the two
banished exiles. And ungainly Mlle Durand from Switzerland, the governess
who has devoted herself to Konrad's education all summer with the utmost
energy and who would otherwise avail herself of any opportunity to burst
into tears, valiantly appeals to her charge as she waves a farewell
handkerchief: N'oublie pas ton français, mon chéri! Uncle Tadeusz closes the
carriage door and takes a step back. The coach lurches forward. The friends
and relatives vanish from Konrad's view through the small window, and
when he looks out at the other side he sees, in the distance, halfway down to
the great gates, the district police commandant's light, open trap, harnessed
to three horses in Russian fashion, drawn up on one side and the
commandant himself sitting in it, the vizor of his flat cap with its red band
pulled down over his eyes.
In early April 1865, eighteen months after the departure from
nowofastów, Evelina Korzeniowska died in exile aged thirty-two of the
shadows that her tuberculosis had spread through her body, and of the home-
sickness that was corroding her soul. Apollo's will to live was also almost
extinguished. He was quite unable now to devote himself to his troubled
son's education, and hardly ever pursued his own work at all. The most he
could do was to alter the odd line or two in his translation of Victor Hugo's
Les travailleurs de la mer. That prodigiously boring book seemed to him to
mirror his own life. C'est un livre sur des destinées dépaysées, he once said

to Konrad, sur des individus expulsés et perdus, sur les éliminés du sort, un
livre sur ceux qui song seuls et évités. In 1867, a few days before Christmas,
Apollo Korzeniowski was released from his Russian exile. The authorities
had decided that he no longer constituted a threat, and gave him a passport
valid for one journey to Madeira, for purposes of convalescence. But neither
Apollo's financial position nor his frail state of health allowed him to travel.
After a short stay in Lemberg, which he found too Austrian for his liking, he
rented a few rooms in Poselska Street in Cracow. There he spent most of the
time in his armchair, grieving for his lost wife, for the wasted years, and for
his poor and lonely boy, who had just written a patriotic play entitled The
Eyes of Johan Sobieski. Apollo had burnt all of his own manuscripts in the
fireplace. At times, when he did so, a weightless flake of soot ash like a
scrap of black silk would drift through the room, borne up on the air, before
sinking to the floor somewhere or dissolving into the dark. For Apollo, as for
Evelina, the end came in the spring, as it was beginning to thaw, but it was
not granted to him to depart this life on the anniversary of her death. He lay
in his bed till well into May, becoming steadily weaker and thinner. During
those weeks when his father was dying, Konrad would sit at a little table lit
by a green lamp in a windowless cabinet to do his homework in the late
afternoon after school. The ink stains in his exercise book and on his hands
came from the fear in his heart. Whenever the door of the next room opened
he could hear his father's shallow breathing. Two nuns with snow-white
wimples were tending the patient. Without a sound they glided hither and
thither, performing their duties and occasionally casting a concerned glance
at the child who would soon be orphaned, bent over his writing, adding up
numbers or reading, hour after hour, voluminous Polish and French
adventure stories, novels and travel books.
The funeral of the patriot Apollo Korzeniowski was a great
demonstration, conducted in silence. Along the streets, which were closed to
traffic, bare-headed workmen, schoolchildren, university students and
citizens, who had doffed their top hats, stood in solemn emotion, and at
every open upper-storey window there were clusters of people dressed in
black. The cortège, led by eleven-year old Konrad as chief mourner, moved
out of the narrow side street, through the centre of the town, past the Church
of Mary the Virgin with its two unequal towers, towards Florian's Gate. It
was a fine afternoon. The blue sky compassed the rooftops and on high the
clouds scudded before the wind like a squadron of sailboats. During the

funeral, as the priest in his heavy silver-embroidered vestments was intoning
the ritual words for the dead man in the pit, Konrad perhaps raised his eyes
and beheld the clouds drifting by, seeing them as he had never done before,
and perhaps it was then that the thought occurred to him of becoming a sea
captain, an altogether unheard-of notion for the son of a Polish gentleman.
Three years later he expressed this wish to his guardian for the first time, and
nothing on earth could put it out of his mind thereafter, not even when Uncle
Tadeusz sent him to Switzerland for a summer holiday of several weeks with
his private tutor, Pulman. The tutor was under instructions to remind his
charge at every opportunity of the many careers that were open to him
beside seafaring, but no matter what he said (at the Rhine falls near
Schaffhausen, in Hospenthal, viewing the St Gotthard tunnel under
construction, or up on the Furka Pass), Konrad stuck tenaciously to his
resolve. Scarcely a year later, on the 14th of October 1874, when he was not
yet seventeen, he took leave of his grandmother Teofila Bobrowska and his
good Uncle Tadeusz, as they stood on the platform at Cracow outside the
train window. The ticket to Marseilles in his pocket had cost one hundred
and thirty-seven guilders and seventy-five groschen. He took with him no
more than would fit into his small case, and it would be almost sixteen years
before he returned to visit his native country again.
In 1875 Konrad Korzeniowski crossed the Atlantic for the first time, on
the barque Mont Blanc. At the end of July he was on Martinique, where the
ship lay at anchor for two months. The homeward voyage took almost a
quarter of a year. It was not until Christmas Day that the Mont Blanc, badly
damaged by winter storms, made Le Havre. Undeterred by this tough
initiation into life at sea, Konrad Korzeniowski signed on for further voyages
to the West Indies, where he visited Cap-Haïtien, Port-au-Prince, St Thomas
and St Pierre, which was devastated soon afterwards when Mont Pelée
erupted.

On the outward sailing the ship carried arms, steam-powered engines,
gunpowder and ammunition. On the return the cargo was sugar and timber.
He spent the time when he was not at sea in Marseilles, among fellow sailors
and also with people of greater refinement. At the Café Boudol in the rue
Saint-Ferréol and in the salon of Mme Déléstang, whose husband was a
banker and ship owner, hee frequented gatherings that included aristocrats,
bohemians, financiers, adventurers, and Spanish Legitimists. The dying
throes of courtly life went side by side with the most unscrupulous
machinations, complex intrigues were connived at, smuggling syndicates
were founded, and shady deals agreed. Korzeniowski was involved in many
things, spent more than he had, and succumbed to the advances of a
mysterious lady who, though just his own age, was already a widow. This
lady, whose true identity has not been established with any certainty, was

known as Rita in Legitimist circles, where she played a prominent part; and
it was said that she had been the mistress of Don Carlos, the Bourbon prince,
whom there were plans to instate, by hook or by crook, on the Spanish
throne. Subsequently it was rumoured in various quarters that Doña Rita,
who resided in a villa in rue Sylvabelle, and one Paula de Somogyi were one
and the same person. The story went that in November 1877, when Don
Carlos returned to Vienna from inspecting the front line in the Russo-Turkish
war, he asked a certain Mme Hannover to procure for him a Pest chorus girl
by the name of Paula Horváth, whose beauty had caught his eye. From
Vienna, with his new companion, Don Carlos travelled first to see his
brother in Graz and then onward to Venice, Modena and Milan, where he
introduced her in society as the Baroness de Somogyi. The rumour that the
two mistresses were in reality one person originated in the fact that Rita
vanished from Marseilles at the exact moment in time when the Baroness,
supposedly because Don Carlos was having a crisis of conscience prompted
by the imminent first holy communion of his son Jaime, was either dropped
by the Don or married off to the tenor Angel de Trabedelo, with whom she
appears to have lived in London in happiness and contentment until her
death in 1917. While the matter of whether Rita and Paula were identical
must remain unresolved, it is beyond doubt that the young Korzeniowski
sought to win the favour of either the one or the other lady, irrespective of
whether she had grown up as a goatherd in the highlands of Catalonia or as a
goosegirl on the shores of Lake Balaton; just as there is no question that this
love story, which in some respects bordered on the fantastic, reached its
climax in late February 1877, when Korzeniowski shot himself in the chest,
or was shot by a rival. To this day it is unclear whether this wound, which
mercifully posed no threat to Korzeniowski's life, was inflicted in a duel, as
he himself later claimed, or, as Uncle Tadeusz suspected, in a suicide
attempt. Either way, the dramatic gesture, which the young man, who saw
himself as a Stendhalien, evidently meant to cut the gordian knot, took its
inspiration from the opera, which at that time determined the social mores
and in particular the expressions of love and longing, in Marseilles as in
most other European cities. Korzeniowski had seen and heard the work of
Rossini and Meyerbeer at the Théatre de Marseille and, above all, was
enraptured by the operettas of Jacques Offenbach, which were as much in
vogue as ever. A libretto entitled Konrad Korzeniowski and the Carlist
Conspiracy in Marseilles could easily have been the making of another of

them. In actual fact, however, Korzeniowski's French apprentice years came
to an end when he left Marseilles for Constantinople aboard the SS Mavis on
the 24th of April 1878. The Russo-Turkish war was over, but from the ship,
as he later reported, Korzeniowski was still able to see the army camp at San
Stefano, a vast city of white tents, where the peace treaty had been signed,
passing by like a mirage. From Constantinople the steamer proceeded to
Yeysk, at the far end of the Sea of Asov, where it took on a consignment of
linseed oil with which, as the Lowestoft harbour register records, it reached
the east coast of England on the 18th of June 1878.
From July until early September, when he left for London, Korzeniowski
made three round trips as an ordinary seaman aboard the Skimmer of the
Seas, a coaster that plied between Lowestoft and Newcastle. Little is known
of how he spent the second half of June in the fishing port and bathing resort
of Lowestoft, which could not have afforded a greater contrast to Marseilles.
Doubtless he rented a room and made whatever enquiries were necessary for
his plans. In the evenings, when the darkness settled upon the sea, he will
have strolled along the esplanade, a twenty-one-year-old foreigner alone
amongst the English. I can see him, for instance, standing out on the pier,
where a brass band is playing the overture from Tannhäuser as a night-time
serenade. And as he walks homeward past those who remain to listen, with a
gentle breeze coming off the water, he is intrigued by the ease with which he
is absorbing a hitherto quite unfamiliar language, a language he will one day
employ to write the novels that will win him worldwide acclaim, whilst for
now it fills him with an altogether new sense of purpose and confidence. By
his own account, Korzeniowski's first English tutors were the Lowestoft
Standard and the Lowestoft Journal, in which, during the week of his arrival,
the following motley assortment of news items was brought to the public's
attention: an explosion in a mine in Wigan cost two hundred lives; in
Rumelia there was a Mohammedan uprising; in South Africa the kaffir
unrest had to be suppressed; Lord Grenville expatiated on the education of
the fair sex; a despatch boat was sent to Marseilles to take the Duke of
Cambridge to Malta, where he was to inspect the Indian troops; a housemaid
in Whitby was burnt alive when her dress, onto which she had accidentally
spilt paraffin, caught light at an open fire; the steamship Largo Bay left the
Clyde with three hundred and fifty-two Scottish emigrants aboard; a Mrs
Dixon of Silsden was so overjoyed to see her son Thomas, who, after ten
years' absence in America, suddenly turned up at her door, that she had a

stroke; the young Queen of Spain was growing weaker by the day; work on
the fortifications of Hong Kong, where two thousand coolies were slaving,
was approaching completion; and in Bosnia, so the Standard reports, all
highways are infested with bands of robbers, some of them mounted. Even
the forests around Sarajevo are swarming with marauders, deserters and
francs-tireurs of all kinds. Travelling, therefore, is at a standstill.
In February 1890, twelve years after his arrival in Lowestoft and fifteen
years after his departure from the station at Cracow, Korzeniowski, who now
had British citizenship and his captain's papers and had seen the most far-
flung regions of the earth, returned for the first time to Kazimierówka and
the house of his Uncle Tadeusz. In a note written much later he described his
arrival at the Ukrainian station after brief stops in Berlin, Warsaw and
Lublin. There his uncle's coachman and majordomo were waiting for him in
a sleigh to which four duns were harnessed but which was so small that it
almost looked like a toy. The ride to Kazimierówka took another eight hours.
The majordomo wrapped me up solicitously, writes Korzeniowski, in a
bearskin coat that reached to the tips of my toes and put an enormous fur hat
with ear flaps on my head, before taking his seat beside me. When the sleigh
started off, to a soft and even jingle of bells, a winter journey back into
childhood began for me. The young coachman, who was perhaps only
sixteen years old, found the way across the endless snow-covered fields with
an unfailing instinct. When i commented on his astounding sense of
direction (Korzeniowski continues), never hesitating and not once taking a
wrong turn, the majordomo replied that the young fellow was the son of
Joseph, who had always driven grandmother Bobrowska of blessed memory
and later served Pan Tadeusz with equal loyalty, until cholera ended his
days. His wife, the majordomo said, died of the cholera too, which reached
us when the ice was breaking, and so did a whole houseful of children, and
the only one who survived was this deaf mute sitting in front of us on the
box. He was never sent to school and no one ever expected he would be
much use for anything till it turned out that horses were more obedient to
him than to any other stable-boy. And when he was about eleven it emerged
on some occasion or other that he had the map of the entire district in his
head, complete with every bend in the road, so accurately you'd think he'd
been born with it. Never, writes Korzeniowski, have I travelled better than
that day as we journeyed into the setting dusk. As in the old days, long ago, I
saw the sun going down over the plains, a great red disc sinking into the

snow as though it were setting upon the sea. Swiftly we drove on into the
gathering dark, into the infinite white wastes that met the starry skies at the
horizon, where villages amidst trees floated like shadowy islands.
Before he set off for Poland and the Ukraine, Korzeniowski had applied
for a job with the Société Anonyme Belge pour le Commerce du Haut-
Congo. Immediately after his return to Brussels he called in person on the
managing director, Albert Thys, at the Société's main offices in rue de
Brederode. Thys, whose shapeless body was forced into a frock coat that
was far too tight, was sitting in a gloomy office beneath a map of Africa that
covered the entire wall, and the moment Korzeniowski had stated his
business, without further ado, he offered him the command of a steamer that
applied the upper reaches of the Congo, because the captain, a German or
Dane by the name of Freiesleben, had, as it happened, just been killed by the
natives. After two weeks of hasty preparation and a cursory medical,
conducted by the Société's ghoulish doctor, Korzeniowski took the train to
Bordeaux, where in mid-May he embarked on the Ville de Maceió, bound
for Boma. At Tenerife he was already beset with dark premonitions. Life, he
wrote to his beautiful and recently widowed Aunt Marguerite Poradowska in
Brussels, is a tragicomedy—beaucoup de rêves, un rare éclair de bonheur, un
peu de colère, puis le désillusion, des années de souffrance et la fin—in
which, for better or worse, one had to play one's part. In the course of the
long voyage, this dispirited frame of mind, the madness of the whole
colonial enterprise was gradually borne in upon Korzeniowski. Day after day
the coastline was unchanging, as if the vessel were making no progress. And
yet, wrote Korzeniowski, we passed a number of landing places and trading
posts with names like Gran' Bassam or Little Popo, all of them seeming to
belong in some sordid farce. Once we passed a warship anchored off a
dreary beach where not the smallest sign of any settlement was to be seen.
As far as the eye could reach there was nothing but ocean, sky, and the hair-
thin green strip of bush vegetation. The ensign hung limp from the mast, the
ponderous iron vessel rose and fell on the slimy swell, and at regular
intervals the long six-inch guns fired off shells into the unknown African
continent, with neither purpose nor aim.
Bordeaux, Tenerife, Dakar, Conakry, Sierra Leone, Cotonou, Libreville,
Loango, Banane, Boma—after four weeks at sea, Korzeniowski at last
reached the Congo, one of those remote destinations he had dreamt of as a
child. At that time the Congo had been but a white patch on the map of

Africa over which he had often pored for hours, reciting the colourful names.
Little was marked in the interior of this part of the world, no railway lines,
no roads, no towns, and, as cartographers would often embellish such empty
spaces with drawings of exotic beasts, a roaring lion or a crocodile with
gaping jaws, they had rendered the Congo, of which they knew only that it
was a river measuring thousands of miles from its source to the sea, as a
snake coiling through the blank, uncharted land. Since then, of course, detail
had been added to the map. The white patch had become a place of darkness.
And the fact is that in the entire history of colonialism, most of it not yet
written, there is scarcely a darker chapter than the one termed The Opening
of the Congo. When the Association internationale pour l'Exploration et la
Civilisation en Afrique was established in September 1876, it was with a
declaration of the most high-minded intentions and ostensibly without any
vested national or private interests. Exalted personages representing the
aristocracy, the churches, the sciences, industry and finance, attended the
inaugural meeting, at which King Leopold, patron of the exemplary venture,
proclaimed that the friends of humanity could pursue no nobler end than that
which brought them together that day: to open up the last part of our earth to
have remained hitherto untouched by the blessings of civilization. The aim,
said King leopold, was to break through the darkness in which whole
peoples still dwelt, and to mount a crusade in order to bring this glorious
century of progress to the point of perfection. In the nature of things, the
lofty spirit expressed in this declaration was lost from sight. As early as
1886, Leopold, now styled Sovereign de l'Etat Indépendent du Congo, was
the sole ruler of a territory on the second longest river on earth, a million
square miles in area and thus a hundred times the size of the mother country,
and was accountable to no one for his actions. Ruthlessly he set about
exploiting its inexhaustible wealth, through trading companies such as the
Société Anonyme Belge pour le Commerce du Haut-Congo, the soon
legendary profits of which were built on a system of slave labour which was
sanctioned by all the shareholders and all the Europeans contracted to work
in the new colony. In some parts of the Congo, the indigenous people were
all but eradicated by forced labour, and those were taken there from other
parts of Africa or from overseas died in droves of dysentery, malaria,
smallpox, beriberi, jaundice, starvation and physical exhaustion. Every year
from 1890 to 1900, an estimated five hundred thousand of these nameless
victims, nowhere mentioned in the annual reports, lost their lives. During the

same period, the value of share sin the Compagnie du Chemin de Fer du
Congo rose from 320 Belgian francs to 2,850.
On arrival in Boma, Korzeniowski transferred from the Ville de Maceió
to a small river steamer, by which he reached Matadi on the 13th of June.
From there he went overland, since numerous waterfalls and rapids make the
Congo unnavigable from Matadi to Stanley Pool. Matadi was a desolate
settlement, known to its inhabitants as the town of stones. Like an ulcer it
festered on the rubble thrown up over thousands of years by the infernal
cauldron at the end of this three hundred-mile stretch of the river, which
remains untamed even today. Buildings with rusty corrugated iron roofs
were dotted randomly below the high crags through which the water forced
its way, and amongst these, on the scree, and on the steep riverbank slopes,
gangs of black figures were everywhere at work or moving in bearer
columns that ran long lines across the rough terrain. Here and there an
overseer in white suit and white pith helmet stood by. Korzeniowski had
already been for a day or so in this arena reminiscent of a quarry, where the
constant noise of the rapids filled the air, when (as Marlow later describes in
Heart of Darkness) he came upon a place some way off from the settlement
where those who were racked by illness, starvation and toil had withdrawn
to die. As if after a massacre they lay there in the greenish gloom at the
bottom of the gorge. Evidently no one cared to stop these black shadows
when they crept off into the bush. I began to distinguish the gleam of the
eyes under the trees, says Marlow. Then, glancing down, I saw a face near
my hand. The black bones reclined at full length with one shoulder against
the tree, and slowly the eyelids rose and the sunken eyes looked up at me,
enormous and vacant, a kind of blind, white flicker in the depths of the orbs,
which died out slowly. And as this man, scarcely more than a boy, breathed
his last, those who were not yet worn out were carrying hundred-weight
sacks of provisions, crates of tools, explosive charges, gear and equipment of
every description, engines, spare parts, and sections of ships' hulls through
the swamps and forests and across the sun-scorched uplands, or were
working in the mountain range of Palaballa and by the M'Pozo river,
building a railway to link Matadi with the upper reaches of the Congo.
Korzeniowski made that arduous journey himself, along a route where
presently the settlements of Songolo, Thumba and Thysville would be
established. He had with him a caravan of thirty-one men and, as his
troublesome travelling companion, an overweight Frenchman named Harou,

who invariably fainted whenever they were miles from the nearest shade, so
that for long distances he had to be transported in a hammock. The march
took well-nigh forty days and during this period Korzeniowski began to
grasp that his own travails did not absolve him from the guilt which he had
incurred by his mere presence in the Congo. Though he did in fact continue
upriver from Léopoldville, aboard the steamer Roi des Belges, to the Stanley
Falls, he now regarded his original plan of taking up a command for the
Société Anonyme with revulsion. The corrosive humidity of the air, the
sunlight pulsing to the heartbeat, the unchanging haze that hung over the
river, and the company he had to keep aboard the Roi des Belges, which
struck him increasingly, as the days went by, as unhinged—he knew that he
would have to turn back. Tout m'est antipathique ice, he wrote to Marguerite
Poradowska, les hommes et les choses, mais surtout les hommes. Tous ces
boutiquiers africains et marchands d'ivoire aux instincts sordides. Je regrette
d'être venu ice. Je le regrette même amèrement. Back in Léopoldville,
Korzeniowski was so sick in body and in soul that he longed for death. But it
was to be another three months before this man, whose protracted bouts of
despair were henceforth to alternate with his writing, was able to depart
homeward from Boma. In mid-January 1891 he reached Ostend, the
selfsame port that one Joseph Loewy left some days later aboard the
steamship Belgian Prince, bound for Boma. Loewy, an uncle of Franz Kafka,
who was then seven years old, was a Panama veteran and thus knew what
was in store for him. Ahead lay a total of twelve years (including five
sojourns in Europe of several months in spa towns and mountain resorts),
during which time he held various important positions in Matadi, where life
for people such as himself gradually became more tolerable. In July 1896,
for instance, at a banquet to mark the opening of the halfway station at
Thumba, not only local delicacies but also European foods and wines were
served to the guests. Two years after that memorable occasion, Loewy (at far
left in the photograph,)

now director of the entire trading division, was awarded the Gold Medal
of the Ordre du Lion Royal by King Leopold himself, at a ceremony to mark
the completion of the Congo railway. Korzeniowski, who travelled onward
to see Marguerite Poradowska in Brussels immediately after arriving in
Ostend, now saw the capital of the Kingdom of Belgium, with its ever more
bombastic buildings, as a sepulchral monument erected over a hecatomb of
black bodies, and all the passers-by in the streets seemed to him to bear that
dark Congolese secret within them. And indeed, to this day one sees in
Belgium a distinctive ugliness, dating from the time when the Congo colony
was exploited without restraint and manifested in the macabre atmosphere of
certain salons and strikingly stunted growth of the population, such as one
rarely comes across elsewhere. At all events, I well recall that on my first
visit to Brussels in December 1964 I encountered more hunchbacks and
lunatics than normally in a whole year. One evening in a bar in Rhode St
Genèse I even watched a deformed billiard player who was racked with
spastic contortions but who was able, when it was turn and he had taken a
moment to steady himself, to play the most difficult cannons with unerring
precision. The hotel by the Bois de la Chambre where I was then lodging for

a few days was so crammed with heavy mahogany furniture, all manner of
African trophies, and pot plants, some of which were quite enormous, among
them aspidistras, monsterae and rubber plants reaching almost to the twelve-
feet-high, that even in broad daylight the interior seemed darkened with
chocolate-coloured gloom. I still see quite clearly the massive, elaborately
carved sideboard, on one side of which stood a glass case containing an
arrangement of artificial twigs, colourful silk bows and tiny stuffed
humming-birds, and on the other a conical pile of china fruit. But ever since
that first visit to Brussels, the very definition of Belgian ugliness, in my
eyes, has been the Lion Monument and the so-called historical memorial site
of the Battle of Waterloo.
Why I went to Waterloo I no longer know. But I do remember walking
from the bus stop past a bleak field and a number of ramshackle buildings to
a sort of village, which consisted solely of souvenir shops and cheap
restaurants. There were no visitors about on that leaden-grey day shortly
before Christmas, not even the obligatory group of schoolchildren one
inevitably encounters in such a place. But as if they had come to people this
deserted stage, a squad of characters in Napoleonic costume suddenly
appeared tramping up and down the few streets, beating drums and blowing
fifes; and bringing up the rear was a slatternly, garishly made-up sutler
woman pulling a curious handcart with a goose shut in a cage. For a while I
watched these mummers, who seemed to be in perpetual motion, as they
disappeared amongst the buildings only to re-emerge elsewhere. At length I
bought a ticket for the Waterloo Panorama, housed in an immense domed

rotunda, where from a raised platform in the middle one can view the battle
—a favourite subject with panorama artists—in every direction. It is like
being at the centre of events. On a sort of landscaped proscenium,
immediately below the wooden rail amidst tree-stumps and undergrowth in
the blood-stained sand, lie lifesize horses and cutdown infantrymen, hussars
and chevaux-légers, eyes rolling in pain or already extinguished. Their faces
are moulded from wax but the boots, the leather belts, the weapons, the
cuirasses, and the splendidly coloured uniforms, probably stuffed with
eelgrass, rags and the like, are to all appearances authentic. Across this
horrific three-dimensional scene, on which the cold dust of time has settled,
one's gaze is drawn to the horizon, to the enormous mural, one hundred and
ten yards by twelve, painted in 1912 by the French marine artist Louis
Dumontin on the inner wall of the circus-like structure. This then, I thought,
as I looked round about me, is the representation of history. It requires a
falsification of perspective. We, the survivors, see everything from above,
see everything at once, and still we do not know how it was. The desolate
field extends all around where once fifty thousand soldiers and ten thousand
horses met their end within a few hours. The night after the battle, the air
must have been filled with death rattles and groans. Now there is nothing but
the silent brown soil. Whatever became of the corpses and mortal remains?
Are they buried under the memorial? Are we standing on a mountain of
death? Is that our ultimate vantage point? Does one really have the much-
vaunted historical overview from such a position? Near Brighton, I was once
told, not far from the coast, there are two copses that were planted after the
Battle of Waterloo in remembrance of that memorable victory. One is in the
shape of a Napoleonic three-cornered hat, the other in that of a Wellington
boot. Naturally the outlines cannot be made out from the ground; they were
intended as landmarks for latter-day balloonists. That afternoon in the
rotunda I inserted a couple of coins in a slot machine to hear an account of
the battle in Flemish. Of the various circumstance and vicissitudes described
I understood no more than the odd phrase. De holle weg van Ohain, de
Hertog van Wellington, de rook van de pruisische batterijen, tegenaanval van
de nederlandse cavalrie—the fighting will have surged to and fro in waves
for a long time, as is generally the case.

No clear picture emerged. Neither then nor today. Only when I had shut
my eyes, I well recall, did I see a cannonball smash through a row of poplars
at an angle, sending the green branches flying in tatters. And then I saw
Fabrizio, Stendhal's young hero, wandering about the battlefield, pale but
with his eyes aglow and an unsaddled colonel getting to his feet and feeling
his sergeant: I can feel nothing but the old injury in my right hand.—Before
returning to Brussels I warmed up a little in one of the restaurants. At the far
end of the room, in the dim light that entered by the Belgian bulls'-eye
panes, sat a hunchbacked pensioner. She was wearing a woollen cap, a
winter coat made of thick burled material, and fingerless gloves. The

waitress brought her a plate with a huge piece of meat. The old woman
stared at it for a while, then produced from her handbag a small, sharp knife
with a wooden handle and began to cut it up. She would have been born, it
occurs to me now, at about the time that the Congo railway was completed.
The first news of the nature and extent of the crimes committed against
the native peoples in the course of opening up the Congo came to public
attention in 1903 through Roger Casement, then British consul at Boma. In a
memorandum to Foreign Secretary Lord Landsdowne, Casement—who, so
Korzeniowski told a London acquaintance, could tell things that he,
Korzeniowski, had long been trying to forget—gave an exact account of the
utterly merciless exploitation of the blacks. They were compelled to work
unpaid throughout the colony, given a bare minimum to eat, often in chain-
gangs, and labouring to a set timetable from dawn to dusk till in the end they
literally dropped dead. Anyone who travelled the upper reaches of the Congo
and was not blinded by greed for money, wrote Casement, would behold the
agony of an entire race in all its heart-rending details, a suffering that
eclipsed even the most calamitous tales in the Bible. Casement made it
perfectly clear that hundreds of thousands of slave labourers were being
worked to death every year by their white overseers, and that mutilation, by
severing hands and feet, and execution by revolver, were among the
everyday punitive means of maintaining discipline in the Congo. King
Leopold invited Casement to Brussels for a personal talk aimed either at
defusing the tension created by Casement's intervention or at assessing the
threat his activities posed to the Belgian colonial enterprise. Leopold
explained that he considered the work done by the blacks as a perfectly
legitimate alternative to the payment of taxes, and if the white supervisory
personnel at times went too far, as he did not deny, it was due to the fact that
the climate of the Congo triggered a kind of dementia in the brains of some
whites, which unfortunately it was not always possible to prevent in time, a
fact which was regrettable but could hardly be changed. Since Casement's
views could not be altered with arguments of this kind, Leopold availed
himself of his royal privilege in London, as a result of which, with a certain
duplicity, Casement was on the one hand praised for his exemplary report
and awarded the CMG, while on the other hand nothing was done that might
have had an adverse effect on Belgian interests. When Casement was
transferred to South America some years later, probably with the ulterior
motive of getting his troublesome person out of the way for a while, he

exposed conditions in the jungle areas of Peru, Colombia and Brazil that
resembled those in the Congo in many respects, with the difference that here
the controlling agent was not Belgian trading associations but the Amazon
Company, the head office of which was in the city of London. In South
America too, whole tribes were being wiped out at that time and entire
regions burnt to the ground. Casement's report, and his unconditional
partisanship for the victims and those who had no rights, undoubtedly earned
him a certain respect at the Foreign Office, but at the same time many of the
top-ranking officials shook their heads at what seemed to them a quixotic
zeal incompatible with the professional advancement of otherwise so
promising an envoy. They tried to deal with the matter by knighting
Casement, in express recognition of his services to the oppressed peoples of
the earth. But Casement was not prepared to switch to the side of the
powerful; quite the contrary, he was increasingly preoccupied with the
nature and origins of that power and the imperialist mentality that resulted
from it. It was only to be expected that in due course he should hit upon the
Irish question—that is to say, his own. Casement had grown up in County
Antrim, the son of a Protestant father and a Catholic mother, and by
education and upbringing he was predestined to be one of those whose
mission in life was the upholding English rule in Ireland. In the years leading
up to the First World War, when the Irish question was becoming more
acute, Casement espoused the cause of "the white Indians of Ireland". The
injustice which had been borne by the Irish for centuries increasingly filled
his consciousness. He could not rid his thoughts of the fact that almost half
the population of Ireland had been murdered by Cromwell's soldiers, that
thousands of men and women were later sent as white slaves to the West
Indies, that in recent times more than a million Irish had died of starvation,
and that the majority of the young generation were still forced to emigrate
from their native land. The moment of decision for Casement came in 1914
when the Home Rule programme proposed by the Liberal government to
solve the Irish problem was defeated by the fanatical resistance of Ulster
Protestants with the support, both open and covert, of various English
interest groups. We will not shrink from Ulster's resistance to Home Rule for
Ireland, even if the British Commonwealth is convulsed declared Frederick
Smith, one of the leading representatives of the Protestant minority whose
so-called loyalism consisted in their willingness to defend their privileges
against government troops by force of arms if necessary. The hundred-

thousand-strong Ulster Volunteers were founded. In the south, too, an army
of volunteers was raised. Casement took part in the recruiting drive and
helped equip the contingents. He returned his decorations to London, and
refused the pension he had been offered. In early 1915 he travelled to Berlin
on a secret mission, to urge the government of the German Reich to supply
arms to the Irish army of liberation and persuade Irish prisoners of war in
Germany to form an Irish brigade. In both endeavours Casement was
unsuccessful, and he was returned to Ireland by a German submarine.
Deadly tired and chilled to the bone by the icy water, he waded ashore in the
bay of Banna Strand near Tralee. He was now fifty-one; his arrest was
imminent.

All he could do was to send the message No German help available
through a priest, to stop the Easter rising which was planned for all Ireland
and was now condemned to failure. If the idealists, poets, trade unionists and
teachers who bore the responsibility in Dublin nonetheless sacrificed
themselves and those who obeyed them in seven days of street fighting, that
was none of his doing. When the rising was put down, Casement was
already in a cell in the Tower of London. He had no legal adviser. Counsel
for the prosecution was Frederick Smith, who had risen to become Director
of Public Prosecutions, which meant that the outcome of the trial was as
good as decided before it began. In order to pre-empt any petitions for
pardon that might have been made by persons of influence, excerpts from
what was known as the Black Diary, a kind of chronicle of the accused's
homosexual relations found when Casement's home was searched, were
forwarded to the King of England, the President of the United States, and the
Pope. The authenticity of this Black Diary, kept until recently under lock and
key at the Public Records Office in Kew, was long considered highly
debatable, not least because the executive and judicial organs of the state
concerned with furnishing the evidence and drawing up the charge against
alleged Irish terrorists have repeatedly been guilty, until very recent times,
not only of pursuing doubtful suspicions and insinuations but indeed of
deliberate falsification of the facts. For the veterans of the Irish freedom
movement it was in any case inconceivable that one of their martyrs should
have practised the English vice. But since the release to general scrutiny of
the diaries in early 1994 there has no longer been any question that they are
in

Casement's own hand. We may draw from this conclusion that it was
precisely Casement's homosexuality that sensitized him to the continuing
oppression, exploitation, enslavement and destruction, across the borders of
social class and race, of those who were furthest from the centres of power.
As expected, Casement was found guilty of high treason at the end of his
trial at the Old Bailey. The presiding judge, Lord Reading, formerly Rufus
Isaacs, pronounced sentence. You will be taken hence, he told Casement, to
a lawful prison and thence to a place of execution and will be there hanged
by the neck until you be dead. Not until 1965 did the British government
permit the exhumation of the remains of Roger Casement, presumably
scarcely identifiable any more, from the lime pit in the courtyard of
Pentonville prison into which his body had been thrown.
6
Not far from the coast, between Southwold and Walberswick, a narrow
iron bridge crosses the river Blyth where a long

time ago ships heavily laden with wool made their way seaward. Today
there is next to no traffic on the river, which is largely silted up. At best one
might see a sailing boat or two moored in the lower reaches amidst an
assortment of rotting barges. To landward, there is nothing but grey water,
mudflats and emptiness.

The bridge over the Blyth was built in 1875 for a narrow-gauge railway
that linked Halesworth and Southwold. According to local historians, the
train that ran on it had originally been built for the Emperor of China.
Precisely which emperor had given this commission I have not succeeded in
finding out, despite lengthy research; nor have I been able to discover why
the order was never delivered or why this diminutive imperial train, which
may have been intended to connect the Palace in Peking, then still
surrounded by pinewoods, to one of the summer residences, ended up in
service on a branch line of the Great Eastern Railway. The only thing the
uncertain sources agree on is that the outlines of the imperial heraldic
dragon, complete with a tail and somewhat clouded over by its own breath,
could clearly be made out beneath the black paintwork of the carriages,
which were used mainly by seaside holidaymakers and travelled at a
maximum speed of sixteen miles per hour. As for the heraldic creature itself,
the Libro de los seres imaginarios, to which reference has already been
made, contains a fairly complete taxonomy and description of oriental
dragons, of those that inhabit the skies and of those that dwell on the earth
and in the seas. Some are said to carry the palaces of the gods on their backs,
while others are believed to determine the course of streams and rivers and
to guard subterranean treasures. They are armour-plated with yellow scales.

Below their muzzles they have beards, their brows beetle over their blazing
eyes, their ears are short and fleshy, their mouths invariably hang open, and
they feed on pearls and opals. Some are three or four miles long. Mountains
crumble when they turn over in their sleep, and when they fly through the
air, they cause terrible storms that strip the roofs off houses and devastate the
crops. When they rise from the depths of the sea, maelstroms and typhoons
ensue. In China, the placating of the elements has always been intimately
connected with the ceremonial rites which surrounded the ruler on the
dragon throne and which governed everything from affairs of state down to
daily ablutions, rituals that also served to legitimize and immortalize the
immense profane power that was focused in the person of the emperor. At
any moment of the day or night, the members of the imperial household,
which numbered more than six thousand and consisted exclusively of
eunuchs and women, would be circling, on precisely defined orbits, the sole
male inhabitant of the Forbidden City that lay concealed behind purple-
coloured walls. In the latter half of the nineteenth century, the ritualization of
imperial power was at its most elaborate: at the same time, that power itself
was by now almost completely hollowed out. While all court appointments,
rigidly controlled as they were by an immutable hierarchy, continued to be
made according to rules that had been perfected down to the last detail, the
empire in its entirety was on the brink of collapse, owing to mounting
pressure from enemies both within and without. In the 1850s and 1860s, the
Taiping rebellion, launched by a messianic Christian-Confucian movement,
spread like wildfire across all of southern China. Reeling with privation and
poverty, the people—from starving peasants and soldiers at large after the
Opium war to coolies, sailors, actors and prostitutes—flocked in undreamt-
of numbers to the self-appointed Celestial King, Hung Hsiu-Ch'üan, who in
a feverish delirium had beheld a glorious future in which justice prevailed.
Soon a steadily growing army of holy warriors was making its way
northwards from Kwangsi. It overran the provinces of Hunan, Hupeh and
Anhwei, and in early 1853 was at the gates of the mighty city of Nanking,
which was overwhelmed after a tow-day siege and was declared the celestial
capital of the movement. Fired by the prospect of a golden age, the rebellion
now flooded wave upon wave across the whole vast country. More than six
thousand citadels were taken by the rebels and occupied for a while; five
provinces were razed to the ground in battle after battle; and more than
twenty million died in just fifteen years. The bloody horror in China at that

time went beyond all imagining. In the summer of 1864, after a seven-year
siege by imperial forces, Nanking fell. The defenders had long since
exhausted their supplies, and had abandoned all hope of attaining in this life
the paradise which had seemed within reach when the movement began.
Broken by hunger and drugs, they were on their last legs. On the 30th of
June the Celestial King took his own life. Hundreds of thousands followed
his example, either out of loyalty or for fear of the conquerors' revenge.
They committed self-slaughter in every conceivable way, with swords and
with knives, by fire, by hanging, or by leaping from the rooftops and towers.
Many are even said to have buried themselves alive. The mass suicide of the
Taipingis is without historical parallel. When their enemies broke through
the gates on the morning of the 19th of July, they found not a soul alive. But
the city was filled with the humming of flies. The king of the Celestial
Realm of Eternal Peace, according to a despatch sent to Peking, lay face-
down in a gutter, his bloated body held together only by the silken robes of
imperial yellow, adorned with the image of the dragon, which, with
blasphemous presumption, he had always worn.
Suppressing the Taiping rebellion would almost certainly have proved
impossible had not the British army contingents in China taken the imperial
side after the resolution of their own conflict with the Emperor. The armed
presence of the British dated back to 1840, to the beginning of the so-called
Opium war. In 1837 the Chinese government had taken measures to prevent
opium trading, whereupon the East India Company, which grew opium
poppies in the fields of Bengal and shipped the drug mainly to Canton,
Amoy and Shanghai, felt that one of its most lucrative ventures was in
jeopardy. The subsequent declaration of war began the opening-up, by force
of arms, of the Chinese Empire, which for two hundred years had remained
closed to foreign barbarians. In the name of Christian evangelism and free
trade, which was held to be the precondition of all civilized progress, the
superiority of western artillery was demonstrated, a number of cities were
stormed, and a peace was extorted, the conditions of which included
guarantees for British trading posts on the coast, the cession of Hong Kong,
and, not least, reparation payments of truly astronomical proportions. In so
far as this arrangement, which from the outset the British regarded as purely
interim, made no provision for access to trading centres within China itself,
the need for further military campaigns could not be ruled out in the longer
term, especially in view of the existence of four hundred million Chinese to

whom the cotton fabrics produced in the Lancashire mills might have been
sold. It was not, however, until 1856 that an adequate pretext for a new
punitive expedition presented itself, when Chinese officials in the port of
Canton boarded a freighter to arrest some members of the all-Chinese crew
who were suspected of piracy. In the course of this operation, the boarding
party hauled down the Union Jack, which was flying from the main mast,
probably because at that time the British flag was not infrequently flown as
cover for illegal trafficking. But since the boarded ship was registered in
Hong Kong and was flying the Union Jack rightfully, the incident, laughable
in itself, provided the representatives of British interests in Canton with the
occasion for a confrontation with the Chinese authorities which was
presently and deliberately pushed so far that there was felt to be no
alternative but to occupy the port and bombard the official residence of the
prefect. At very nearly the same time, as luck would have it, the French
press was running reports of the execution, on the orders of officials in
Kwangsi province, of a missionary named Chapdelaine. The description of
this painful procedure culminated in the claim that the executioner had cut
the heart from the breast of the dead abbé, and cooked and eaten it. The cries
for retaliation and punishment which promptly filled France chimed
perfectly with the endeavours of the warmongers in Westminster, so that,
once the necessary preparations had been made, there was witnessed the
spectacle of a joint Anglo-French campaign, a rare phenomenon in the age
of imperial rivalry. This enterprise, which was dogged by the greatest of
logistical difficulties, entered its crucial phase in August 1860 with the
landing of eighteen thousand British and French troops in the Bay of Pechili,
barely a hundred and fifty miles from Peking. Supported by a Chinese
auxiliary force recruited in Canton, they captured the forst of Taku that stood
surrounded by deep ditches, immense earthworks and bamboo palisades
amidst saltwater marshes at the mouth of the Peiho river. After the fortress
garrison had unconditionally surrendered and attempts were being made to
put an orderly end, by negotiation, to a campaign that had already been
concluded from a military point of view, the allied delegates, despite the fact
that they had the upper hand, became ever more lost in a nightmarish maze
of diplomatic prevarication dictated partly by the complex requirements of
protocol in the dragon empire and partly by the fear and bewilderment of the
Emperor. In the end, the negotiations foundered on the mutual
incomprehension of emissaries from two fundamentally different worlds, a

gap which no interpreter could bridge. While the British and French side
viewed the peace they would impose as the first stage in the colonization of
a moribund realm untouched by the intellectual and material achievements
of civilization, the Emperor's delegates, for their part, endeavoured to make
clear to these strangers, who appeared to be unfamiliar with Chinese ways,
the immemorial obligations toward the Son of Heaven of envoys from
satellite powers bound to pay homage and tribute. In the end, there was
nothing for it but to sail up the Peiho in gunboats and advance on Peking
overland. Emperor Hsien-feng, who was debilitated despite his youthful
years and suffered from dropsy, shirked the impending confrontation,
departing on the 22nd of September for his retreat at Jehol beyond the Great
Wall amidst a disorderly array of court eunuchs, mules, baggage carts, litters
and palanquins. Word was conveyed to the commanders of the enemy forces
that his majest the Emperor was obliged by law to go hunting in autumn. In
early October the allied troops, themselves now uncertain how to proceed,
happened apparently by chance on the magic garden of Yuan Ming Yuan
near Peking, with its countless palaces, pavilions, covered walks, fantastic
arbours, temples and towers. On the slopes of man-made mountains,
between banks and spinneys, deer with fabulous antlers grazed, and the
whole incomprehensible glory of Nature and of the wonders placed in it by
the hand of man was reflected in dark, unruffled waters. The destruction that
was wrought in these legendary landscaped gardens over the next few days,
which made a mockery of military discipline or indeed of all reason, can
only be understood as resulting from anger at the continued delay in
achieving a resolution. yet the true reason why Yuan Ming Yuan was laid
waste may well have been that this earthly paradise—which immediately
annihilated any notion of the Chinese as an inferior and uncivilized race—
was an irresistible provocation in the eyes of soldiers who, a world away
from their homeland, knew nothing about the rule of force, privation, and the
abnegation of their own desires. Although the accounts of what happened in
those October days are not very reliable, the sheer fact that booty was later
auctioned off in the British camp suggests that much of the removable
ornaments and the jewellery left behind by the fleeing court, everything
made of jade or gold, silver or silk, fell into the hands of the looters. When
the summerhouses, hunting lodges and sacred places in the extensive
gardens and neighbouring palace precincts, more than two hundred in
number, were then burnt to the ground, it was on the orders of the

commanding officers, ostensibly in reprisal for the mistreatment of the
British emissaries Loch and Parkes, but in reality so that the devastation
already wrought should no longer be apparent. The temples, palaces and
hermitages, mostly built of cedarwood, went up in flames one after another
with unbelievable speed, according to Charles George Gordon, a thirty-year-
old captain in the Royal Engineers, the fire spreading through the green
shrubs and woods, crackling and leaping. Apart from a few stone bridges
and marble pagodas, all was destroyed. For a long time, swathes of smoke
drifted over the entire area, and a great cloud of ash that obscured the sun
was borne to Peking by the west wind, where after a time it settled on the
heads and homes of those who, it was surmised, had been visited by the
power of divine retribution. At the end of the month, with the example of
Yuan Ming Yuan before them, the Emperor's officers felt obliged to sign
without further ado the oft-deferred Treaty of Tientsin. The principal clauses,
apart from fresh reparation demands that could scarcely be met, related to
the rights of free movement and unhindered missionary activity in the
interior of China and to negotiation of a customs tariff with a view to
legalizing the opium trade. In return, the Western powers declared
themselves willing to uphold the dynasty, which meant putting down the
Taiping rebellion and crushing the secessionary movements of the Moslem
population of the Shensi, Yunnan and Kansu valley regions, in the course of
which between six and ten million people were made homeless or killed.
Charles George Gordon, by nature shy and Christian-spirited, though also an
irascible and profoundly melancholy man, who was later to die a famous
death in the siege of Khartoum, took over the command of the demoralized
imperial army and within a short period transformed into so powerful a
fighting force that when he left the country he was invested with the Chinese
Empire's highest decoration in recognition of his services, the yellow jacket.
In August 1861, after months of irresolution, Emperor Hsien-feng lay in
his Jehol exile approaching the end of his short and dissipated life. The
waters had already risen from his abdomen to his heart, and the cells of his
gradually dissolving flesh floated like fish in the sea in the salt fluid that
leaked from his bloodstream into every available space in the body tissue.
Through his flickering consciousness, Hsien-feng followed the invasion by
foreign powers of the provinces of his empire by perfect proxy, as his own
limbs died off and his organs flooded with toxins. He himself was now the
battlefield on which the downfall of China was being accomplished, till on

the 22nd of the month the shades of night settled upon him and he sank away
wholly into the delirium of death. Because of the precisely ordained
procedures to which the Emperor's body had to be subjected before being
placed in its coffin, procedures which were linked to complex astrological
calculations, transfer of his corpse to Peking could not be arranged before
the 5th of October. It then took three weeks for the cortège, more than a mile
long, to make the journey, in evenly falling autumn rain, up hill and down
dale, through black valleys and gorges and across bleak mountain passes
blurred to sight by icy-grey blizzards. The catafalque, which time and again
threatened to topple over, was borne on a huge golden bier on the shoulders
of a hundred and twenty-four hand-picked pallbearers. On the morning of
the 1st of November, when the cortège reached its destination, the road
leading to the gates of the Forbidden City had been strewn with yellow sand
and screens of blue Nanking silk were positioned on either side to prevent
the common people from looking upon the countenance of the five-year-old
child Emperor T'ung-chih, whom Hsien-feng had named as his successor to
the dragon throne in the last days of his life and who was now being taken
homeward on a padded palanquin behind the mortal remains of his father,
together with his mother Tz'u-hsi, who had risen from the ranks of
concubines and even now had assumed the illustrious title of Dowager
Empress. Following the return to court in Peking, the struggle for the powers
of regency during the interregnum which inevitably ensued since the heir to
the dragon throne was not yet of age, was soon resolved in favour of the
widow, whose craving for power was insatiable. The princes who had acted
as Hseien-feng's viceroys during his absence were accused of conspiracy
against the legitimate ruler, a crime for which there was no defence, and they
were condemned to be dismembered and cut into slices. When this sentence
was commuted and the traitors were granted permission, offered to them in
the form of a silken rope, to hang themselves, it was seen as a token of
merciful clemency in the new regime. Once Princes Cheng, Su-shun and Yi
had availed themselves of this prerogative, seemingly without any hesitation,
the Dowager Empress was the uncontested locum of the Chinese Empire, at
least until the time when her son became old enough to rule himself and
began taking measures that ran counter to the plans she had nurtured to
extend and perfect her power, plans of which many had already been put into
practice. Given this turn of events, it was tantamount to providential, from
Tz'u-hsi's point of view, that, a scant year after coming to the throne, T'ung-

chih was so weakened—by smallpox or by some other disease he had picked
up, as rumour had it, from the dancers and transvestites of Peking's streets of
sin—that when the planet Venus crossed before the sun in the autumn of
1874, a grim omen, there were fears for his life at the age of barely nineteen.
And indeed T'ung-chih did die, a few weeks later, on the 12th of January
1875. His face was turned to the south and for the journey into the beyond he
was enrobed in the vestments of eternal life. The funeral obsequies had
scarcely been completed in the prescribed form when the wife of the
departed Emperor, seventeen years old and several months pregnant
according to various sources, poisoned herself with a massive dose of
opium. The official version, that her mysterious death was due to the
unassuageable grief that had overwhelmed her, could not entirely dispel the
suspicion that the young Empress had been got out of the way in order to
prolong the regency of the Dowager Empress Tz'u-hsi, who now
consolidated her position by having her two-year-old nephew Kung-hsu
proclaimed heir to the throne, a manoeuvre which flew in the face of
tradition since Kuang-hsu was of the same generation as T'ung-chih in the
lineage of descent, and thus, under an incontrovertible Confucian rule,
unentitled to proffer the services of reverence and mourning which were
owed the dead man that his spirit might be appeased. The way the Dowager
Empress, in other respects extremely conservative in her views, contrived to
flout the most venerable precepts when it became necessary, was one sign of
her craving for absolute power, which grew more ruthless with every year
that passed. And like all absolute rulers, she was concerned to display her
exalted position to the world at large and to herself by a lavishness beyond
comparison. Her private household alone, managed by senior eunuch Li
Lien-ying, standing to her right in this picture,

went through a truly appalling annual sum of six million pounds sterling.
The more ostentatious the demonstrations of her authority became, however,
the more the fear of losing the infinite power she had so insidiously acquired
grew within her. Unable to sleep, she roamed the bizarre shadow landscapes
of the palace gardens, amidst the artificial crags, the groves of ferns, and the
dark arborvitaes and cypresses. In the early morning she swallowed a pearl
ground to powder, as an elixir of invulnerability. She took the greatest of
pleasure in lifeless things, and by day would sometimes stand for hours at
the windows of her apartments, staring out upon the silent lake to the north,
which resembled a painting. The tiny figures of the gardeners in the distant
lily fields, or those of the courtiers who skated on the blue ice in winter, did
not recall to her the natural occupations and feelings of human kind, but
were rather, like flies in a jam jar, already in the wanton power of death.

Travellers who were in China between 1876 and 1879 report that, in the
drought that had continued for years, whole provinces gave the impression
of expiring under prisons of glass. Between seven and twenty million people
—no precise estimates have ever been calculated—are said to have died of
starvation and exhaustion, principally in Shansi, Shensi and Shantung. A
Baptist preacher named Timothy Richard, for example, noted that one effect
of the catastrophe, which grew more apparent week by week, was that all
movement was slowing down. Singly, in groups and in straggling lines,
people tottered across the country, and the merest breath of air might suffice
to topple them and leave them lying by the wayside forever. Simply raising a
hand, closing an eyelid, or exhaling one's last breath might take, it
sometimes seemed, half a century. And as time dissolved, so too did all other
relations. Parents exchanged children because they could not bear to watch
the dying torment of their own. Towns and villages were surrounded by
deserts of dust, over which trembling mirages of river valleys and forested
lakes often appeared. Sometimes at first light, when the rustling of leaves
dry on the branch penetrated their shallow sleep, people imagined, for a
fraction of a second in which wishful thinking was stronger than what they
knew to be the case, that it had started to rain. Though the capital and its
environs were spared the worst consequences of the drought, when the ill
tidings arrived from the south, the Dowager Empress had a daily blood
sacrifice offered in her temple to the gods of silk, at the hour when the
evening star rose, lest the silkworms want for fresh green leaves. Of all
living creatures, these curious insects alone aroused a strong affection in her.
The silk houses they were raised in were among the finest buildings of the
summer palace. Every day that came, Tz'u-hsi walked the airy halls with the
ladies of her retinue, clad in white pinafores, to inspect the progress of the
work, and when night fell she particularly liked to sit all alone amidst the
frames, listening to the low, even, deeply soothing sound of the countless
silkworms consuming the new mulberry foliage. These pale, almost
transparent creatures, which would presently give their lives for the fine
thread they were spinning, she saw as her true loyal followers. To her they
seemed the ideal subjects, diligent in service, ready to die, capable of
multiplying vastly within a short span of time, and fixed on their one sole
preordained aim, wholly unlike human beings, on whom there was basically
no relying, neither on the nameless masses in the empire nor on those who
constituted the inmost circle about her and who, she suspected might over at

any time to the side of the second child Emperor she had installed. Kung-hsu
who was fascinated by the mysteries of modern machines, spent most of his
time taking apart the mechanical toys and clocks sold by a Danish tradesman
in his Peking shop, and it was still possible to distract his awakening
ambition by promising him a real railway train which he would be able to
ride across his own country but the day was not long remote when his would
be the power which she, the Dowager Empress, was ever less able to
relinquish the longer she possessed it. As I imagine it, the little court train
with the image of the Chinese dragon that later served the line from
Halesworth to Southwold was originally ordered for Kuang-hsu, and the
order was subsequently cancelled in the mid-1890s when the young Emperor
began to espouse, in opposition to Tz'u-hsi, the causes of the reform
movement under whose influence he had fallen, causes that ran counter to
her own purposes. What we do have on authority is that Kuang-hsu's
attempts to wrest power to himself ultimately led to his being imprisoned in
one of the moated palaces in the Forbidden City, where he was forced to
abdicate and make over the power of government, without reservation, to the
Dowager Empress. For ten years Kuang-hsu languished in exile on his
paradisiacal island until in the late summer of 1908, the various ailments that
increasingly troubled him since the day of his deposition—chronic
headaches and backache, renal cramps, hypersensitivity to light and noise,
weak lungs, and severe depression—finally overcame him. One Dr Chu,
who was familiar with western medicine and was the last to be consulted,
diagnosed Bright's disease but also noted a number of inconsistent
symptoms—palpitations of the heart, an empurpled complexion, a yellow
tongue—that suggest, as has since been speculated, that Kuang-hsu was
gradually poisoned. Visiting the patient in his imperial apartments, Dr Chu
noticed moreover that the floors and all the furnishings were thick with dust,
as if the house had been long since deserted, an indication that no one had
attended to the Emperor's needs for years. On the 14th of November 1908 at
dusk, or, as they say, at the hour of the cockerel, Kuang-hsu, racked with
pain, departed this life. At the time of his death he was thirty-seven years
old. Strangely enough, the seventy-three-year-old Dowager Empress, who
had destroyed his body and his spirit with such persistent intent, outlived
him by less than a day. On the morning of the 15th of November, still in
reasonably good health, she presided over the grand council's deliberations
upon the new situation, but after her midday meal, which in defiance of her

personal doctors' warnings she had concluded with a double helping of her
favourite pudding—crab apples with clotted cream—she was stricken with
an attack resembling dysentery, from which she did not recover. She died at
about three o'clock. Already draped in her shroud, she dictated her farewell
to the Empire which now after the near half century of her regency was in
the throes of dissolution. Looking back, she said, she realized that history
consists of nothing but misfortune and the troubles that afflict us, so that in
all our days on earth we never know one single moment that is genuinely
free of fear.
The denial of time, so the tract on Orbius Tertius tells us, is one of the
key tenets of the philosophical schools of Tlön. According to this principle,
the future exists only in the shape of our present apprehensions and hopes,
and the past merely as memory. In a different view, the world and everything
now living in it was created only moments ago, together with its complete by
illusory pre-history. A third school of thought variously describes our earth
as a cul-de-sac in the great city of God, a dark cave crowded with
incomprehensible images, or a hazy aura surrounding a better sun. The
advocates of a fourth philosophy maintain that time has run its course and
this life is no more than the fading reflection of an event beyond recall. We
simply do not know how many of its possible mutations the world may
already have gone through, or how much time, always assuming that it
exists, remains. All that is certain is that night lasts far longer than day, if
one compares an individual life, life as a whole, or time itself with the
system which, in each case, is above it. The night of time, wrote Thomas
Browne in his treatise of 1658, The Garden of Cyrus, far surpasseth the day
and who knows when was the Aequinox?—Thoughts of this kind were in
my head too as I walked on along the disused railway line a little way
beyond the bridge across the Blyth, and then dropped from the higher
ground to the level of the marsh that extends southward from Walberswick
as far as Dunwich, which now consists of a few houses only. The region is
so empty and deserted that, if one were abandoned there, one could scarcely
say whether one was on the North Sea coast or perhaps by the Caspian Sea
or the Gulf of Lian-tung. With the rippling reeds to my right and the grey
beach to my left, I pressed on toward Dunwich, which seemed so far in the
distance as to be quite beyond my reach.

It was as if I had been walking for hours before the tiled roofs of houses
and the crest of a wooded hill gradually became defined. The Dunwich of
the present day is what remains of a town that was one of the most important
ports in Europe in the Middle Ages. There were more than fifty churches,
monasteries and convents, and hospitals here; there were shipyards and
fortifications and a fisheries and merchant fleet of eighty vessels; and there
were dozens of windmills. All of it has gone under, quite literally, and is now
below the sea, beneath alluvial sand and gravel, over an area of two or three
square miles. The parish churches of St james, St Leonard, St Martin, St
Bartholomew, St Michael, St Patrick, St Mary, St John, St Peter, St Nicholas
and St Felix, one after the other, toppled down the steadily receding cliff-
face and sank in the depths, along with the earth and stone of which the town
had been built. All that survived, strange to say, were the walled well shafts,
which for centuries, freed of that which had once enclosed them, rose aloft
like the chimney stacks of some subterranean smithy, as various chroniclers
report, until in due course these symbols of the vanished town also fell
down. Until about 1890 what was known as Eccles Church Tower still stood
on Dunwich beach,

and no one had any idea how it had arrived at sea level, from the
considerable height at which it must once have stood, without tipping out of
the perpendicular. The riddle had not been solved to this day, though a recent
experiment using a model suggests that the enigmatic Eccles Tower was
probably built on sand and sank down under its own weight, so gradually
that the masonry remained virtually intact. Around 1900, after Eccles Tower
had also collapsed, the only Dunwich church that remained was the ruin of
All Saints.

In 1919 it, too, slipped over the cliff edge, together with the bones of
those buried in the churchyard, and only the square west tower still rose for a
time above those eerie parts. Dunwich reached the high point of its evolution
in the thirteenth century. Every day, in those times, the ships came and went,
to London, Stavoren, Stralsund, Danzig, Bruges, Bayonne and Bordeaux. A
quarter of the great fleet that sailed from Portsmouth in May 1230, bearing
hundreds of knights and their horses, several thousand foot soldiers, and the
entire royal entourage, came from Dunwich. Shipbuilding, and the trade in
timber, grain, salt, herring, wool and hides, were so profitable that the town
was soon in a position to build every conceivable kind of defence against
attack from the landward side and against the force of the sea, which was
ceaselessly eroding the coast. One cannot say how great was the sense of
security which the people of Dunwich derived from the building of these
fortifications. All we know for certain is that they ultimately proved
inadequate. On New Year's Eve 1285, a storm tide devastated the lower town
and the portside so terribly that for months afterwards no one could tell
where the land ended and the sea began. There were fallen walls, debris,
ruins, broken timbers, shattered ships' hulls, and sodden masses of loam,
pebbles, sand and water everywhere. And then on the 14th of January 1328,
after only a few decades of rebuilding, and following an autumn and
Christmas period that had been unusually tranquil, an even more fearful
disaster occurred, if such were possible. Once again, a hurricane-force north-
easterly storm coincided with the highest tide of the month. As darkness fell,
those living around the harbour fled with whatever belongings they could
carry to the upper town. All night the waves clawed away one row of houses

after another. Like mighty battering rams the roofing and supporting beams
adrift in the water smashed against the walls that had not yet been levelled.
When dawn came, the throng of survivors—numbering some two or three
thousand, among them gentry such as the FitzRicharts, the FitzMaurices, the
Valeins and the de la Falaises as well as the common people—stood on the
edge of the abyss, leaning into the wind, gazing in horror through the clouds
of salt spray into the depths where bales and barrels, shattered cranes, torn
sails of windmills, chests and tables, crates, feather beds, firewood, straw
and drowned livestock were revolving in a whirlpool of whitish-brown
waters. Over the centuries that followed, catastrophic incursions of the sea
into the land of this kind happened time and again, and, even during long
years of apparent calm, coastal erosion continued to take its natural course.
Little by little the people of Dunwich accepted the inevitability of the
process. They abandoned their hopeless struggle, turned their backs on the
sea, and, whenever their declining means allowed it, built to the westward in
a protracted flight that went on for generations; the slowly dying town thus
followed—by reflect, one might say—one of the fundamental patterns of
human behaviour. A strikingly large number of our settlements are oriented
to the west, and where circumstances permit, relocate in a westward
direction. The east stands for lost causes. Especially at the time when the
continent of America was being colonized, it was noticeable that the
townships spread to the west even as their eastern districts were falling apart.
In Brazil, to this day, whole provinces die down like fires when the land is
exhausted by overcropping and new areas to the west are opened up. In
North America, too, countless settlements of various kinds, complete with
gas stations, motels and shopping malls, move west along the turnpikes, and
along that axis affluence and squalor are unfailingly polarized. I was put in
mind of this phenomenon by the flight of Dunwich. After the first serious
disaster, building began on the westernmost fringe of the town, but even of
the Grey Friars monastery that dates from that time only a few fragments
now remain. Dunwich, with its towers and many thousand souls, has
dissolved into water, sand and thin air. If you look out from the cliff-top
across the sea towards where the town must once have been, you can sense
the immense power of emptiness. Perhaps it was for this reason that
Dunwich became a place of pilgrimate for melancholy poets in the Victorian
age. Algernon Charles Swinburne, for instance, went there on several
occasions in the 1870s with his companion Theodore Watts-Dunton,

whenever the excitement of London literary life threatened to overtax his
nerves, which had been hypersensitive since his early childhood. He had
achieved legendary fame as a young man, and many a time he had been sent
into such impassioned paroxysms by the dazzling conversations on art in the
Pre-Raphaelite salons, or by the mental strain of composing his own verse
and tragedies, overflowing with wonderful poetic bombast, that he could no
longer control his own voice and limbs. After these quasi-epileptic fits he
often lay prostrate for weeks, and soon, unfitted for general society, he could
only bear the company of those who were close to him. Initially he spent the
periods of convalescence at the family country estate, but later, ever more
frequently, he went to the coast with the trusty Watts-Dunton. Rambles from
Southwold to Dunwich, through the windblown fields of sedge, worked like
a sedative upon him. A long poem entitled By the North Sea was his tribute
to the gradual dissolution of life. Like ashes the low cliffs crumble and the
banks down into dust. I remember reading in a study of Swinburne that, one
summer evening, when he was visiting the churchyard of All Saints with
Watts-Dunton, he thought he saw a greenish glow far out on the surface of
the sea. The glow, he is reported as saying, reminded him of the palace of
Kublai Khan, which was built on the site later occupied by Peking at the
very time when Dunwich was one of the most important communities in the
kingdom of England. If I remember rightly, that same study told how
Swinburne described every last detail of the fabled palace to Watts-Dunton
that evening: the snow-white wall more than four miles in length, the
arsenals crammed with bridles, saddles and armour of every sort, the
storehouses and treasuries, the stables where row upon row of the finest
horses stood, the banqueting halls that could accommodate more than six
thousand, the private apartments, the zoo with its unicorn enclosure, and the
hill, three hundred feet high, that the Khan had caused to be raised on the
north side, in order to command an unrestricted view. Within the space of a
year, Swinburne reputedly said, this new landmark, the slopes of which were
strewn with green lapis lazuli, was planted with the rarest and most majestic
of mature evergreen trees, which had been dug up complete with roots and
earth from where they originally grew and transported, often over
considerable distances, by specially trained teams of elephants. Never
before, Swinburne is said to have claimed that evening in Dunwich, nor ever
since, had anything more beautiful been created on earth than that artificial
hill, which was green even in midwinter and crowned by a palace of peace,

in a similar hue of green. Algernon Charles Swinburne, whose life was
coterminous to the year with that of the Dowager Empress Tz'u-hsi, was
born on the 5th of April 1837, the eldest of the six children of Admiral
Charles Henry Swinburne and his wife, Lady Jane Henrietta, daughter of the
third Earl of Ashburnham. Both families traced their ancestry to that remote
time when Kublai Khan was building his palace and Dunwich was trading
with every nation that could then be reached by sea. As long as anyone could
remember, the Swinburnes and the Ashburnhams had been members of the
royal entourage, prominent commanders and warriors, lords of vast estates,
and explorers. Curious to relate, one General Robert Swinburne, great uncle
to Algernon Swinburne, became a subject of His Apostolic Majesty and was
invested a Baron of the Holy Roman Empire, presumably on the strength of
his pronounced ultramontane leanings. When he died he was governor of
Milan, and his son, until his death in 1907 at the age of eighty-seven, held
the office of chamberlain to Kaiser Franz Josef. This extreme manifestation
of political Catholicism in one branch of the family may conceivably have
been a first sign of decadence. That aside, however, the question remains of
how a family so adept at life should have produced a scion forever on the
verge of a nervous breakdown, a paradox which long puzzled Swinburne's
biographers as they eagerly teased at his family descent and hereditary
make-up, till at length they agreed to describe the poet of Atalanta in
Calydon as an epigenetic phenomenon sprung from the void, as it were, from
beyond all natural possibility. It is certain that Swinburne, by reason of his
physical appearance alone, must have seemed a complete aberration.

He was small of stature, and at every point in his development he had
remained far behind a normal size; he was quite startlingly fine-limbed; yet
even as a boy he had an extraordinarily large, indeed outsize, head on his
shoulders, which sloped weakly away from his neck. That truly unusual
head, which was made the more striking by his bushy, fiery-red shock of hair
and his piercing watery-green eyes, made Swinburne, as one of his
contemporaries noted, an object of amazement at Eton. On the day that he
started school—it was the summer of 1849, and Swinburne had just turned
twelve—his was the largest hat in all Eton. A certain Lindo Myers, together
with whom Swinburne later crossed the Channel from Le Havre in the
autumn of 1868, on which occasion a gust of wind blew the hat off
Swinburne's head and swept it overboard, writes that after they docked in
Southampton it was not until the third purveyor of hats that they found
headgear to fit Swinburne, and even then, Myers adds, the leather band and
the lining had to be removed. Despite his extremely ill-proportioned
physique, Swinburne dreamt from early youth, and particularly after reading
newspaper accounts of the charge at Balaclava, of joining a cavalry regiment
and losing his life as a beau sabreur in some equally senseless battle. Even
when he was a student at Oxford, this vision outshone any other conception
he might have of his own future; and only when all hope of dying a hero's
death was gone, thanks to his underdeveloped body, did he devote himself
unreservedly to literature and thus, perhaps, to a no less radical form of self-
destruction. Possibly Swinburne would not have survived the nervous crises
which became more serious as time went on, had he not increasingly
submitted to the regime of his lifetime companion, Watts-Dunton. Watts-
Dunton was soon attending to the entire correspondence, dealing with all the
little matters that were continuously putting Swinburne into the utmost
panic, and thus made it possible for the poet to eke out almost three more
decades of pallid afterlife. In 1879, more dead than alive following a nervous
attack, Swinburne was taken in a four-wheeler to Putney Hill in south-west
London, and there, at number 2, The Pines, a modest suburban town house,
the two

bachelors lived henceforth, carefully avoiding the least excitement. Their
days invariably followed a routine devised by Watts-Dunton. Swinburne,
Watts-Dunton reportedly said with a certain pride in the tried and tested
correctness of his system, always walks in the morning, writes in the
afternoon and reads in the evening. And, what is more, at meal times he eats
like a caterpillar and at night he sleeps like a dormouse. Now and then a
guest who wished to see the prodigious poet in his suburban exile was
invited to lunch. The three would then sit at the table in the gloomy dining
room, Watts-Dunton, who was hard of hearing, making conversation in
booming tones while Swinburne, like a well-brought-up child, kept his head
bowed over his plate, devouring an enormous helping of beef in silence. One
of the visitors to Putney at the turn of the century wrote that the two old
gentlemen put him in mind of strange insects in a Leiden jar. Time and
again, looking at Swinburne, this visitor continued, he was reminded of the
ashy grey silkworm, Bombyx mori, be it because of how he munched his
way through his food bit by bit or be it because, out of the snooze he had
slipped into after lunch, he abruptly awoke to new life, convulsed with
electric energy, and, flapping his hands flitted about his library, like a startled
moth, clambering up and down the stands and ladders to fetch the one or
other treasure from the shelves. The enthusiasm which seized him as he was
thus engaged found expression in rhapsodic declamations about his favourite
poets Marlowe, Landor and Hugo, but also in not infrequent reminiscences
of his childhood on the Isle of Wight and in Northumberland. In one such
moment, in utter rapture, he apparently recalled sitting at his old Aunt
Ashburnham's feet as a boy, listening to her account of the first grand ball
she went to as a girl, accompanied by her mother. After the ball they drove
many miles homeward on a crisp, cold, snow-bright winter night, when
suddenly the carriage stopped by a group of dark figures who, it transpired,
were burying a suicide at a crossroads. In writing down this memory that
goes back a century and a half into the past, noted the visitor, himself long
since deceased, he beheld perfectly clearly the dreadful Hogarthian nocturne
as Swinburne painted it, and the little boy too, with his big head and fiery
hair standing on end, wringing his hands and beseeching: Tell me more,
Aunt Ahshburnham, please tell me more.
7

It had grown uncommonly sultry and dark when at midday, after resting
on the beach, I climbed to Dunwich Heath, which lies forlorn above the sea.
The history of how that melancholy region came to be is closely connected
not only with the nature of the soil and the influence of a maritime climate
but also, far more decisively, with the steady and advancing destruction, over
a period of many centuries and indeed millennia, of the dense forests that
extended over the entire British Isles after the last Ice Age. In Norfolk and
Suffolk, it was chiefly oaks and elms that grew on the flatlands, spreading in
unbroken waves across the gently undulating country right down to the
coast. This phase of evolution was halted when the first settlers burnt off the
forests along those drier stretches of the eastern coast where the light soil
could be tilled. Just as the woods had once colonized the earth in irregular
patterns, gradually growing together, so ever more extensive fields of ash
and cinders now ate their way into that green-leafed world in a similarly
haphazard fashion. If today one flies over the Amazon basin or over Borneo
and sees the mountainous palls of smoking, hanging, seemingly motionless,
over the forest canopy, which from above resembles a mere patch of moss,
then perhaps one can imagine what those fires, which sometimes burned on
for months, would leave in their wake. Whatever was spared by the flames
in prehistoric Europe was later felled for construction and shipbuilding, and
to make the charcoal which the smelting of iron required in vast quantities.
By the seventeenth century, only a few insignificant remnants of the
erstwhile forests survived in the islands, most of them untended and
decaying. The great fires were now lit on the other side of the ocean. It is not
for nothing that Brazil owes its name to the French word for charcoal. Our
spread over the earth was fuelled by reducing the higher species of
vegetation to charcoal, by incessantly burning whatever would burn. From
the first smouldering taper to the elegant lanterns whose light reverberated
around eighteenth-century courtyards and from the mild radiance of these
lanterns to the unearthly glow of the sodium lamps that line the Belgian
motorways, it has all been combustion. Combustion is the hidden principle
behind every artefact we create. The making of a fish-hook, manufacture of
a china cup, or production of a television programme, all depend on the
same process of combustion. Like our bodies and like our desires, the
machines we have devised are possessed of a heart which is slowly reduced
to embers. From the earliest times, human civilization has been no more than
a strange luminescence growing more intense by the hour, of which no one

can say when it will begin to wane and when it will fade away. For the time
being, our cities still shine through the night, and the fires still spread. In
Italy, France and Spain, in Hungary, Poland and Lithuania, in Canada and
California, summer fires consume whole forests, not to mention the great
conflagration in the tropics that is never extinguished. A few years ago, on a
Greek island that was wooded as recently as 1900, I observed the speed with
which a blaze runs through dry vegetation. A short distance from the harbour
town where I was staying, I stood by the roadside with a group of agitated
men, the blackness behind us and before us, far below at the bottom of a
gorge, the fire, whipped up by the wind, racing, leaping, and already
climbing the steep slopes. And I shall never forget the junipers, dark against
the glow, going up in flames one after the other as if they were tinder the
moment the first tongues of fire licked at them, with a dull thudding sound
like an explosion, and then promptly collapsing in a silent shower of sparks.
My way from Dunwich took me at first by the ruins of the Grey Friars'
monastery, through a number of fields, and then to an overgrown scrubland
where stunted pines, birches and rampant gorse grew so densely that the
going was very hard. I was beginning to think of turning back when all of a
sudden the heath opened out in front of me. Shading from pale lilac to
deepest purple, it stretched away westward, with a white track curving
gently through its midst. Lost in the thoughts that went round in my head
incessantly, and numbed by this crazed flowering, I stuck to the sandy path
until to my astonishment, not to say horror, I found myself back again at the
same tangled thicket from which I had emerged about an hour before, or, as
it now seemed to me, in some distant past. Only in retrospect did I realize
that the only discernible landmark on this treeless heath, a most peculiar
villa with a glass-domed observation tower which reminded me somehow of
Ostend, had presented itself time and again from a quite different angle, now
close to, now further off, now to my left and now to my right, and indeed at
one point the lookout tower, in a sort of castling move, had got itself, in no
time at all, from one side of the building to the other, so that it seemed that
instead of seeing the actual villa I was seeing its mirror image. Moreover,
my sense of confusion was deepened by the fact that the signposts at the
forks and crossings of the tracks gave no directions to any place or its
distance; there was invariably, to my mounting irritation, no more than a
mute arrow facing pointlessly this way or that. If one obeyed one's instincts,
the path would sooner or later diverge further and further from the goal one

was aiming to reach. Simply walking straight ahead cross-country was out of
the question on account of the heather, which was woody and knee-deep, so
that I had no choice but to keep to the crooked sandy tracks and to make
mental notes of even the least significant features, even the slightest shift in
perspective. Several times I was forced to retrace long stretches in that
bewildering terrain, which could perhaps be surveyed in its entirety only
from the glass tower of that spectral Belgian villa. In the end I was overcome
by a feeling of panic. The low, leaden sky; the sickly violet hue of the heath
clouding the eye; the silence, which rushed in the ears like the sound of the
sea in a shell; the flies buzzing about me—all this became oppressive and
unnerving. I cannot say how long I walked about in that state of mind, or
how I found a way out. But I do remember that suddenly I stood on a
country lane, beneath a mighty oak, and the horizon was spinning all around
as if I had jumped off a merry-go-round. Months after this experience, which
I still cannot explain, I was on Dunwich Heath once more in a dream,
walking the endlessly winding paths again, and again I could not find my
way out of the maze which I was convinced had been created solely for me.
Dead tired and ready to lie down anywhere, as dusk fell I gained a raised
area where a little Chinese pavilion had been built, as in the middle of the
yew maze at Somerleyton. And when I looked down from this vantage point
I saw the labyrinth, the light sandy ground, the sharply delineated contours
of hedges taller than a man and almost pitch-black now—a pattern simple in
comparison with the tortuous trail I had behind me, but one which I knew in
my dream, with absolute certainty, represented a cross-section of my brain.

Beyond the maze, shadows were drifting across the brume of the heath,
and then, one by one, the stars came out from the depths of space. Night, the
astonishing, the stranger to all that is human, over the mountain-tops
mournful and gleaming draws on. It was as though I stood at the topmost
point of the earth, where the glittering winter sky is forever unchanging; as
though the heath were rigid with frost, and adders, vipers and lizards of
transparent ice lay slumbering in their hollows in the sand. From my resting
place in the pavilion I gazed out across the heath into the night. And I saw
that, to the south, entire headlands had broken off the coast and sunk beneath
the waves. The Belgian villa was already teetering over the precipice, while
in the cockpit of the lookout tower a corpulent figure in captain's uniform
was busying himself at a battery of searchlights, the beams of which,
probing the darkness, reminded me of the War. Although in my dreams I was
sitting transfixed with amazement in the Chinese pavilion, I was at the same
time out in the open, within a foot of the very edge, and knew how fearful it
is to cast one's eye so low. The crows and choughs that winted the midway
air were scarce the size of beetles; the fishermen that walked upon the beach
appeared like mice; and the murmuring surge that chafed the countless
pebbles could not be heard so high. Immediately below the cliff, on a black

heap of earth, were the shattered ruins of a house. Wedged in among the
remains of walls, broken chests of drawers, banisters, upended bathtubs and
buckled heating pipes were the strangely contorted bodies of those people
who had lived there and who, only moments before, had gone to sleep in
their beds. A little way off from this scene of devastation, a solitary old man
with a wild mane of hair was kneeling beside his dead daughter, both of
them so tiny, as if on a stage a mile off. No last sigh, no last words were to
be heard, nor the last despairing plea: Lend me a looking-glass; if that her
breath will mist or stain the stone, why, then she lives. No, nothing. Nothing
but dead silence. Then softly, barely audibly, the sound of a funeral march.
Now night is almost over and the dawn about to break. The contours of the
Sizewell power plant, its Magnox block a glowering mausoleum, begin to
loom upon an island far out in the pallid waters where one believes the
Dogger Bank to be, where once the shoals of herring spawned and earlier
still, a long, long time ago, the delta of the Rhine flowed out into the sea and
where green forests grew from silting sands.
Some two hours after my fortuitous release from the labyrinth of the
heath, I reached the village of Middleton, where I planned to visit the writer
Michael Hamburger, who has lived there for almost twenty years. It was
nearly four o'clock. Neither in the village street nor in the gardens was there
a soul in sight, the houses gave an unwelcoming impression, and, with my
hat in my hand and my rucksack over my shoulder, I felt like a journeyman
in a century gone by, so out of place that I should not have been surprised if
a band of street urchins had come skipping after me or one of Middleton's
householders had stepped out upon his threshold to tell me to be on my way.
After all, every foot traveller incurs the suspicion of the locals, especially
nowadays, and particularly if he does not fit the image of a local rambler.
Perhaps that was why the blue-eyed girl in the village shop gave me such a
flabbergasted stare. The jingle of the door bell had long since faded, and I
had been standing for a while in the little grocer's shop, which was piled to
the ceiling with tinned foods and other imperishables, when she emerged
from a back room, where the light of a television flickered, to gape at me
with her mouth half open, as if I had landed from another planet. Once she
had recovered somewhat, she scrutinized me with a disapproving air, her eye
fixing at length on my dusty footwear, and when I wished her a good
afternoon she again stared at me, utterly stunned. it has often struck me that
when country people set eyes on a foreigner they are quite overawed, and,

even if he has a good command of their language, they find it hard to
understand him. The girl in Middleton village shop was no exception, and
merely shook her head nervously when I asked for mineral water. What she
at length sold me was an ice-cold can of Cherry Coke, which I drained at a
draught like a cup of hemlock, leaning against the churchyard wall, before
walking the last few hundred yards to Michael's house.
Michael was nine and a half when, in November 1933, with his siblings,
his mother, and her parents, he came to England. His father had already left
Berlin several months before, and was installed in one of those unheatable
stone houses in Edinburgh, where, wrapped in woollen blankets, he pored
over dictionaries and textbooks until late at night; for, despite having been
professor of paediatrics at the Charité, he now, in his fifties, had to sit his
medical examinations all over again in a language unfamiliar to him if he
was to continue in practice as a doctor. Michael later wrote in his memoirs
about the fears and anxieties of the family as they travelled toward the
unknown, fears which came to a head in the customs hall in Dover as they
looked on with horro as Grandfather's pair of budgerigars, which had so far
survived the journey unharmed, were impounded. It was the loss of the two
pet birds, Michael writes, and having to stand by powerless and see them
vanish for ever behind some sort of screen, that brought us up against the
whole monstrosity of changing countries under such inauspicious
circumstances. The disappearance of those budgerigars at Dover customs
marked the beginning of the disappearance of his Berlin childhood behind
the new identity that he assumed little by little over the next decade. How
little there has remained in me of my native country, the chronicler observes
as he scans the few memories he still possesses, barely enough for an
obituary of a lost boyhood. The mane of a Prussian lion, a Prussian nanny,
caryatids bearing the globe on their shoulders, the mysterious sounds of
traffic and motor horns rising from Lietzenburgerstraße to the apartment, the
noise made by the central-heating pipe behind the wallpaper in the dark
corner where one had to stand facing the wall by way of punishment, the
nauseating smell of soapsuds in the laundry, a game of marbles in a
Charlottenburg park, barley malt coffee, sugar-beet syrup, codliver oil, and
the forbidden raspberry sweets from Grandmother Antonina's silver
bonbonniere—were these not all merely phantasms, delusions, that had
dissolved into thin air? The leather seats in grandfather's Buick,
Hasensprung tramstop in the Grunewald, the Baltic coast, Heringsdorf, a

sand dune surrounded by pure nothingness, the sunlight and how it fell . . .
Whenever a shift in our spiritual life occurs and fragments such as this
surface, we believe we can remember. But in reality, of course, memory fails
us. Too many buildings have fallen down, too much rubble has been heaped
up, the moraines and deposits are insuperable. If I now look back to Berlin,
writes Michael, all I see is a darkened background with a grey smudge in it,
a slate pencil drawing, some unclear numbers and letters in a gothic script,
blurred and half wiped away with a damp rag. Perhaps this blind spot is also
a vestigial image of the ruins through which I wandered in 1947 when I
returned to my native city for the first time to search for traces of the life I
had lost. For a few days I went about like a sleepwalker, past houses of
which only the façades were left standing, smoke-blackened brick walls and
fields of rubble along the never-ending streets of Charlottenburg, until one
afternoon I unexpectedly found myself in front of the Lietzenburgerstraße
building where we had lived and which had escaped destruction—absurdly,
as it seemed to me. I can still feel the cold breath of air that brushed my
brow as I entered the hallway, and I recall that the cast-iron balustrade on the
stairs, the stucco garlands on the walls, the spot where the perambulator had
been parked, and the largely unchanged names on the metal letter boxes,
appeared to me like pictures in a rebus that I simply had to puzzle out
correctly in order to cancel the monstrous events that had happened since we
emigrated. It was as if it were now up to me alone, as if by some trifling
mental exertion I could reverse the entire course of history, as if—if I desired
it only—Grandmother Antonina, who had refused to go with us to England,
would still be living in Kantstraße as before; she would not have gone on
that journey, of which we had been informed by a Red Cross postcard
shortly after the so-called outbreak of War, but would still be concerned
about the wellbeing of her goldfish, which she washed under the kitchen tap
every day and placed on the window ledge when the weather was fine, for a
little fresh air. All that was required was a moment of concentration, piecing
together the syllables of the word concealed in the riddle, and everything
would again be as it once was. But I could neither make out the word nor
bring myself to mount the stairs and ring the bell of our old flat. Instead I left
the building with a sick feeling in the pit of my stomach and walked and
walked, aimlessly and without being able to grasp even the simplest thought,
well past the Westkreuz or the Hallesches Tor or the Tiergarten, I can no
longer say where; all I know is that at length I came upon a cleared site

where the bricks retrieved from the ruins had been stacked in long, precise
rows, ten by ten by ten, a thousand to every stacked cube, or rather nine
hundred and ninety-nine, since the thousandth brick in every pile was stood
upright on top, be it as a token of expiation or to facilitate the counting. If I
now think back to that desolate place, I do not see a single human being,
only bricks, millions of bricks, a rigorously perfected system of bricks
reaching in serried ranks as far as the horizon, and above them the Berlin
November sky from which presently the snow would come swirling down—
a deathly silent image of the onset of winter, which I sometimes suspect may
have originated in a hallucination, especially when I imagine that out of that
endless emptiness I can hear the closing bars of the Freischütz overture, and
then, without cease, for days and weeks, the scratching of a gramophone
needle. My hallucinations and dreams, Michael writes elsewhere, often taken
place in a setting reminiscent partly of the metropolis of Berlin and partly of
rural Suffolk. For instance, I may be standing at a window on the upper floor
of our house, but what I see is not the familiar marshes and the willows
thrashing as they always do, but rather, from several hundred yards up, acres
and acres of allotment gardens bisected by a road, straight as an arrow, down
which black taxi cabs speed out of the city in the direction of the Wannsee.
Or I am returning at dusk from a long journey. With my rucksack over my
shoulder, I walk the last stretch towards our house, in front of which, for
some unknown reason, a motley assortment of vehicles is parked, immense
limousines, motorized wheelchairs with enormous hand brakes and bulbous
horns at the side, and an ominous ivory-coloured ambulance with two
deaconesses sitting in it. Under their watchful eyes I hesitantly cross the
threshold, and as I do so I no longer know where I am. The rooms are dimly
lit, the walls are bare, the furniture is gone. All manner of silver utensils lie
on the parquet floor, heavy, ornate knives, spoons and forks as well as fish
cutlery for countless people, to dine on a leviathan. Two men in grey linen
coats are taking down a tapestry. Crates of china are brimming with wood
shavings. In my dream more than an hour goes by before I am able to grasp
that I am not in the Middleton house but in the rambling Bleibtreustraße flat
where my mother's parents lived, the museum-like rooms of which
impressed me very nearly as much, on my childhood visits, as the splendid
suites in the palace of Sanssouci. And now they are all gathered here, my
Berlin relatives, my German and my English friends, my in-laws, my
children, the living and the dead. Unseen by them, I walk through their

midst, from one room to another, through galleries, halls and passages
thronged with guests until, at the far end of an imperceptibly sloping
corridor, I come to the unheated drawing room that used to be known, in our
house in Edinburgh, as the Cold Glory. There my father sits, on a stool that
is far too low, practising the cello, while Grandmother is lying on a high
table, dressed in her best. The gleaming tips of her patent-leather shoes point
towards the ceiling, she has spread a grey silk handkerchief over her face,
and for days, as always during her regularly recurring bouts of melancholy,
she has not uttered a single word. From thd window, far off, I see a Silesian
landscape. A golden cupola glints from the depth of a valley enclosed by
blue forested hills. This is Myslowitz, a place somewhere in Poland, I hear
my father say, and as I turn I see the white vapour that had carried his words
lingering in the ice-cold air.
The afternoon was well advanced when I reached Michael's house in the
meadows on the outskirts of Middleton. I was grateful of the opportunity to
rest in the peaceful garden after my wanderings on the heat, which now, in
the telling, assumed an air of unreality. Michael had brought out a pot of tea
from which there came the occasional puff of steam as from a toy engine.
Otherwise, there was not the slightest movement, not even among the grey
leaves of the willows in the field beyond the garden. We talked about the
deserted, soundless month of August. For weeks, said Michael, there is not a
bird to seen. It is as if everything was somehow hollowed out. Everything is
on the point of decline, and only the weeds flourish: bindweed strangles the
shrubs, the yellow roots of nettles creep onward in the soil, burdock stands a
whole head taller than oneself, brown rot and greenfly are everywhere, and
even the sheets of paper on which one endeavours to put together a few
words and sentences seem covered in mildew. For days and weeks on end
one racks one's brain to no avail, and, if asked, one could not say whether
one goes on writing purely out of habit, or a craving for admiration, or
because one knows not how to do anything other, or out of sheer
wonderment, despair or outrage, any more than one could say whether
writing renders one more perceptive or more insane. Perhaps we all lose our
sense of reality to the precise degree to which we are engrossed in our own
work, and perhaps that is why we see in the increasing complexity of our
mental constructs a means for greater understanding, even while intuitively
we know that we shall never be able to fathom the imponderables that
govern our course through life. Does one follow in Hölderlin's footsteps,

simply because one's birthday happened to fall two days after his? Is that
why one is tempted time and again to cast reason aside like an old coat, to
sign one's poems and letters "your humble servant Scardanelli", and to keep
unwelcome guests who come to stare at one at arm's length by addressing
them as Your Excellency or Majesty? Does one begin to translate elegies at
the age of fifteen or sixteen because one has been exiled from one's
homeland? Is it possible that later one would settle in this house in Suffolk
because a water pump in the garden bears the date 1770, the year of
Hölderlin's birth? For when I heard that one of the near islands was Patmos,
I greatly desired there to be lodged, and there to approach the dark grotto.
And did Hölderlin not dedicate his Patmos hymn to the Landgrave of
Homburg, and was not Homburg also the maiden name of Mother? Across
what distances in time do the elective affinities and correspondences
connect? How is it that one perceives oneself in another human being, or, if
not oneself, then one's own precursor? The fact that I first passed through
British customs thirty-three years after Michael, that I am now thinking of
giving up teaching as he did, that I am bent over my writing in Norfolk and
he in Suffolk, that we both are distrustful of our work and both suffer from
an allergy to alcohol—none of these things are particularly strange. But why
it was that on my first visit to Michael's house I instantly felt as if I lived or
had once lived there, in every respect precisely as he does, I cannot explain.
All I know is that I stood spellbound in his high-ceilinged studio room with
its northfacing windows in front of the heavy mahogany bureau at which
Michael said he no longer worked because the room was so cold, even in
midsummer; and that, while we talked of the difficulty of

heating old houses, a strange feeling came upon me, as if it were not he
who had abandoned that place of work but I, as if the spectacles cases, letters
and writing materials that had evidently lain untouched for months in the
soft north light had once been my spectacle cases, my letters and my writing
materials. In the porch that led to the garden, I felt again as if I or someone
akin to me had long gone about his business there. The wicker baskets full of
small twigs for kindling the fire, the polished white and pale grey stones,
shells and other seashore finds mutely foregathered on the chest of drawers
against the pale blue wall, the jiffy bags and packages stacked in a corner by
the pantry door awaiting reuse, all seemed as if they were still-lifes created
by my own hand. Peering into the pantry, which held a particular fascination
for me, my eye

was caught by several jars of preserved fruit that stood on the otherwise
empty shelves and by a few dozen diminutive crimson apples on the sill of
the window darkened by the yew tree outside. And as I looked on these
apples which shone through the half-light much as the golden apples likened
in Proverbs to a word fitly spoken, the quite outlandish thought crossed my
mind that these things, the kindling, the jiffy bags, the fruit preserves, the
seashells and the sound of the sea within them had all outlasted me, and that
Michael was taking me round a house in which I myself had lived a long
time ago. But thoughts of this kind are dispelled as speedily as they appear.
At all events, I did not pursue them in the years that have passed since then,
perhaps because it is not possible to pursue them without losing one's sanity.
In view of this, I was all the more astonished, when recently I read Michael's
memoirs again, to come across a name familiar to me from my time in
Manchester, that of Stanley Kerry, which on first reading had eluded me for
some reason. Michael relates at this point in his account how, in April 1944,
nine months after he joined the Queen's Own Royal West Kent Regiment, he
was transferred from Maidstone to Blackburn, Lancashire, where his

battalion was quartered in a disused cotton mill. Not long after he arrived in
Blackburn he was invited by a fellow soldier to spend Easter Monday at his
home in Burnley, a town whose black cobbled streets, derelict factories, and
zigzag rooftops of back-to-back houses outlined against the sky like dragons'
teeth, made a more forlorn impression on him than anything he had so far
seen in England. Curiously enough, twenty-two years later, when in the
autumn of 1966 I came from Switzerland to England, my first outing, on All
Souls' Day, together with a prospective secondary school teacher, was also to
Burnley, or rather to the moors above Burnley. I can see us still, driving back
down from the moor in the teacher's little red van, via Burnley and
Blackburn to Manchester, as dusk was falling at about four in the afternoon.
And not only did my first excursion from Manchester take me to Burnley,
where Michael had been in 1944, but, moreover, the very Stanley Kerry with
whom Michael made his trip was one of my first acquaintances in
Manchester also. At the time when I took up my teaching post at Manchester
university, Stanley Kerry must have been one of the longest-serving lecturers
in the German department. He had something of a reputation for eccentricity,
owing to his habit of keeping a distance from his colleagues and devoting
most of his spare time to the study of the Japanese language. In this he was
making astounding progress. When I arrived in Manchester, he had already
begun practising his writing skills with brush and pen and would spend
many hours in deep concentration drawing one character after another on
immense sheets of paper. I recall now how he once said to me that one of the
chief difficulties of writing consisted in thinking, with the tip of the pen,
solely of the word to be written, whilst banishing from one's mind the reality
of what one intends to describe. I remember also that when he made this
observation, which applies to poets as well as to pupils in primary school,
we were standing in the Japanese garden he had created at the back of his
bungalow in Wythenshaw. Evening was drawing in. The banks of moss and
the stones were beginning to grow darker, but in the last rays of the sunlight
that fell through the leaves of the acers I could still see the lines left by a
rake in the fine pebbles at our feet. Stanley, as always, was wearing a
somewhat crumpled grey suit and brown suede shoes, and, as always when
we talked to each other, he inclined as far as he could toward me with his
whole body, not only in order to show his interest but also out of a
punctilious courtesy. The leaning posture which he adopted recalled that of a
man walking into the wind, or a ski jumper who has launched himself into

the air. Talking to Stanley, one not uncommonly had the feeling that he came
gliding down from on high. When he was listening, he would tilt his head to
one side, smiling blissfully, but when he himself was speaking it was as
though he were desperately struggling for breath. Often his face would
contort into a grimace, the effort bringing beads of perspiration to his brow,
and the words came from him in a spasmodic, precipitate manner that
betrayed severe inner turmoil and presaged, even then, that all too soon his
heart would cease to beat. When I now think back to Stanley kerry, it seems
incomprehensible that the paths of Michael's life and mine should have
intersected in the person of that extraordinarily shy man, and that at the time
we met him, in 1944 and in 1966 respectively, we were both twenty-two. No
matter how often I tell myself that chance happenings of this kind occur far
more than we suspect, since we all move, one after the other, along the same
roads mapped out for us by our origins and our hopes, my rational mind is
nonetheless unable to lay the ghosts of repetition that haunt me with ever
greater frequency. Scarcely am I in company but it seems as if I had already
heard the same opinions expressed by the same people somewhere or other,
in the same way, with the same words, turns of phrases and gestures. The
physical sensation closest to this feeling of repetition, which sometimes lasts
for several minutes and can be quite disconcerting, is that of the peculiar
numbness brought on by a heavy loss of blood, often resulting in a
temporary inability to think, to speak or to move one's limbs, as though,
without being aware of it, one had suffered a stroke. Perhaps there is in this
as yet unexplained phenomenon of apparent duplication some kind of
anticipation of the end, a venture into the void, a sort of disengagement,
which, like a gramophone repeatedly playing the same sequence of notes,
has less to do with damage to the machine itself than with an irreparable
defect in its programme. Be that as it may, on that August afternoon at
Michael's house I felt several times, either through exhaustion or for some
other reason, that I was losing the ground from under my feet. When at last
the time came for me to take my leave, Anne, who had been resting for an
hour or so, entered my room and sat down with us. I cannot remember
whether it was she who turned the conversation to the fact that nobody wears
mourning any more, not even a black band on the sleeve or a black stud in
the lapel. At all events, in that connection she told the story of a certain Mr
Squirrel from Middleton who was almost of retirement age and who, as far
as anyone knew, had never worn anything but mourning, not even as a

young man before he was apprenticed to the undertaker in Westleton.
Contrary to what his name suggests, said Anne, Mr Squirrel was not
particularly spry or nimble. In fact he was a swarthy, ponderous giant of a
man whom the undertaker presumably employed as pallbearer more for his
physical strength than his propensity to mourn. In the village, Anne went on
it was thought that Squirrel had no memory at all, and was quite unable to
recall what had happened in his childhood, last year, last month or even last
week. How he could therefore grieve for the dead was a puzzle to which no
one knew the answer. Another foible of Squirrel's was that, despite his lack
of a memory, he had always wanted to be an actor, ever since he was a boy,
and had so persistently pestered the people in Middleton and other nearby
villages who occasionally put on a play that in the end, when there was to be
an open-air production of King Lear on Westleton Heath, he was given the
part of the gentleman in the seventh scene of act four who, except for a line
or two, remains silent throughout. Squirrel laboured a whole year at learning
by heart those few lines, said Anne, which on the night he did indeed deliver
most movingly, and to this day he repeats the one or other, whether the
occasion suits or not, as I once discovered for myself when I said good
morning to him and he replied in sonorous tones across the street: They say
Edgar, his banish'd son, is with the Earl of kent in Germany. Shortly after
Anne had finished her story, I asked her to call a taxi for me. When she
returned from making the call, she said that, as she replaced the receiver, the
dream she had had just before she awoke from her afternoon nap came back
to her. We were all three in Norwich, she said, and, because Michael still had
appointments to keep, I had ordered a taxi for her. When it drove up it
proved to be a large, gleaming limousine. I held the door open for her and
she climbed into the back. Without a sound the limousine began to move,
and, before she had settled herself, she was out of the town and surrounded
by an immense forest, shot through by rays of sunlight, which extended over
many miles all the way down to the Middleton house. At an even speed that
could neither be said to be fast nor slow we travelled along a soft, gently
curving track. The atmosphere through which the car moved was denser than
air and somewhat resembled streaming currents of deep, silent water. She
saw the forest, Anne said, with absolute clarity and in meticulous detail
impossible to put into words, as it slid past outside: the tiny fruit capsules on
stems protruding from patches and cushions of moss, the hair-thin grass
stalks, the quivering ferns and the upright grey and brown, smooth or rough-

barked trunks of trees that were lost a few yards up amidst the impenetrable
leafage of the evergreens growing amongst them. Higher still were clusters
of mistletoe, mimosa and lobelia, and cascading down into them from the
next level of this luxuriant forest realm, in clouds of snow-white or pink,
were hundreds of flowering plants and lianas from branches that reached out
like the yard arms of great sailing ships, festooned with bromeliads and
orchids. And above these, at a height the eye could hardly attain, the tops of
palms swayed to and fro, their delicate, feathery, fan-shaped fronds of that
unfathomable green which seems underlaid with burnished brass and which
Leonardo used for the crowns of his trees, in the Annunciation, for instance,
or the portrait of Ginevra de Benci. I have only an indistinct notion of how
beautiful it all was, said Anne, nor can I properly describe now the feeling of
being driven in that limousine that appeared to have no one at the wheel. It
was not really like driving at all, it was more like floating, in a way I have
not experience since my childhood, when I was able to hover a few inches
above the ground. As Anne was talking, we had walked out together into the
garden, where night had already fallen. We waited for the taxi beside the
Hölderlin pump, and by the faint light that fell from the living-room window
into the well I saw, with a shudder that went to the roots of my hair, a beetle
rowing across the surface of the water, from one dark shore to the other.
8
The day after my visit to Middleton I fell into conversation with a
Dutchman named Cornelis de Jong in the bar of the Crown Hotel in
Southwold. He had been to Suffolk on a number of occasions and was now
thinking of buying one of the vast properties, often running to more than a
thousand hectares, that are regularly offered by estate agents hereabouts. De
Jong told me that he had grown up on a sugar plantation near Surabaya and
later, after studying at the Wageningen Agricultural College, continued the
family tradition in a somewhat straitened fashion as a sugar-beet farmer in
the Deventer area. If he was now planning to transfer his interests to
England, it was primarily for economic reasons, said de Jong. Single estates
of the size regularly appearing on the East Anglian market never came up for
sale in Holland, and manor houses of the kind that were practically thrown in
for nothing with the land here were not to be found at home either. In their
heyday, said de Jong, the Dutch invested chiefly in cities, while the English

put their money into country estates. That evening in the bar, we talked till
last orders were called about the rise and decline of the two nations and
about the curiously close relationship that existed, until well into the
twentieth century, between the history of sugar and the history of art. For
long periods of time there was little scope for an ostentatious display of
accumulated wealth, and consequently the enormous profits that accrued to
the few families who grew and traded in sugar cane were largely lavished on
the building, furnishing and maintenance of magnificent country residences
and stately town houses. It was Cornelis de Jong who drew my attention to
the fact that many important museums, such as the Mauritshuis in The
Hague or the Tate Gallery in London, were originally endowed by the sugar
dynasties or were in some other way connected with the sugar trade. The
capital amassed in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries through various
forms of slave economy is still in circulation, said de Jong, still bearing
interest, increasing many times over and continually burgeoning anew. One
of the most tried and tested ways of legitimizing this kind of money has
always been patronage of the arts, the purchase and exhibiting of paintings
and sculptures, a practice which today, said de Jong, was leading to a
relentless escalation of prices paid at major auctions. Within a few years, the
hundred million mark for half a square yard of painted canvas will have been
passed. At times it seems to me, said de Jong, as if all works of art were
coated with a sugar glaze or indeed made completely of sugar, like the
model of the battle of Esztergom created by a confectioner to the Viennese
court, which Empress Maria Theresia, so it is said, devoured in one of her
recurrent bouts of melancholy. The morning after our conversation in the
Crown Hotel Bar,

which extended to the plantation and production methods employed in
the Dutch East Indies, I drove down to Woodbridge with de Jong. The arable
land he wanted to view stretched westward from the outskirts of that small
town, and was bordered to the north by the deserted estate of Boulge, which
I had in any case intended to visit, for it was at Boulge that the writer
Edward FitzGerald grew up almost two hundred years ago, and there too he
was buried in the summer of 1883. After I had parted from Cornelis de Jong,
with a warmth which it seemed he returned, I first crossed the fields from the
A12 towards Bredfield, where FitzGerald was born on the 31st of March
1809 at the White House, of which all that now remains is the orangery. The
main wing of the building, which went back to the mid-eighteenth century
and could accommodate a large family and a no-less numerous staff of
servants, was levelled to the ground in May 1944 when one of the German
V-bombs, which the English nicknamed "doodlebugs", suddenly deviated
from its course and caused wholly pointless damage in remote Bredfield.
Boulge Hall, the neighbouring manor house into which the FitzGeralds
moved in 1825, has also gone. After it burnt down in 1926, the charred walls
long remained standing in the heart of the estate. Not until after the Second
World War was the ruin completely demolished, presumably for building
material. The park itself is now neglected and the grass has gone unmown
for years. The great oaks are dying branch by branch, and the driveways,

patched up here and there with broken bricks, are full of potholes brimming
with black water. The copse which encloses the little church of boulge,
which the FitzGeralds restored in a rather infelicitous fashion, is similarly
neglected. Rotting timber, rusting iron and other debris lies around
everywhere. The graves are half sunk into the ground, overshadowed by the
encroaching sycamores. Small wonder, I thought, that FitzGerald, who
abhorred funerals and indeed every kind of ceremony, did not wish to be
buried in this sombre place and wanted his ashes scattered on the
glittering waters of the sea. If, nonetheless, he lies here, in a grave beside
the hideous family mausoleum, it is owing to one of those wicked ironies
against which even last wills and testaments are powerless. The FitzGeralds
were an old Anglo-Norman family and had lived in Ireland for more than six
hundred years before Edward FitzGerald's parents decided to settle in the
county of Suffolk. The family fortune, amassed over generations through
warring feuds with other lords, by ruthless subjection of the local people and
by a no less ruthless marriage strategy, was legendary even at a time when
the wealth of the topmost social strata was beginning to exceed all that had
hitherto been known, and consisted principally, apart from properties in
England, of their vast land holdings in Ireland, together with the goods and
chattles, and hosts of peasants who were effectively no more than their serfs.

Mary Frances FitzGerald, Edward's mother, was the sole heir to this fortune,
and thus without any doubt one of the richest women in the kingdom. Her
cousin, John Purcell, whom she had married, mindful of the family's motto
"stesso sangue, stessa sorte", gave up his own name in favour of the name of
FitzGerald, in recognition of his wife's superior position; while for her part,
needless to say, Mary Frances FitzGerald saw to it that her title to the fortune
was not diminished in the smallest degree by her marriage to John Purcell.
The portraits that have come down to us show her as a formidable women
with powerful, sloping shoulders, a truly awe-inspiring bust, and an overall
appearance that astounded many contemporaries by its resemblance to the
Duke of Wellington. As one would expect, the cousin she had married soon
paled to a negligible if not contemptible figure beside her, especially since
none of his attempts to secure for himself a position in the rapidly
proliferating new industries met with any success. He tried his hand as a
mining entrepreneur and at various other speculative ventures, but one after
another failed until at length he had gone through all of his own not
inconsiderable fortune as well as the money his wife had made available to
him. After bankruptcy proceedings in a London courtroom, all that remained
to him was the reputation of being a hopeless and chronic defaulter, kept by
the charity of his wife. Hence he spent most of his time at the family seat in
Suffolk, hunting quail and snipe and occupying himself in other similar
ways, while Mary Frances held court at her London residence. Occasionally
she would arrive at Bredfield in a canary-yellow carriage drawn by four
black horses, with a luggage wagon and a large number of women and lady's
maids in her retinue, to see how the children were and to uphold, by a brief
sojourn in the house, her claims to dominion in this, from her point of view,
impossibly remote place. Whenever she arrived or departed, Edward and his
siblings would stand petrified at the windows of their attic nursery or hide in
the driveway shrubbery, too intimidated by her splendour to dare run
towards her, or wave goodbye. Even when he was past sixty, FitzGerald
recalled that on visits to Bredfield his mother would sometimes come
upstairs and there, enveloped in her rustling clothes and a great cloud of
scent, would stalk to and fro like some strange giantess for a while,
remarking upon this or that, only to disappear once again down the steep
staircase, leaving us children, as he said, not much comforted. Since their
father was increasingly absorbed in his own world, the young FitzGeralds
were left entirely in the care of their nanny and tutor, whose rooms were also

on the top floor and who tended to take out on their charges their suppressed
rage at the disrespect many a time shown them by their masters. The fear of
these reprisals and the humiliation that went with them hung over the
children's daily routine which, apart from the cheerless meals they had to
take with their minders, was governed by eternal arithmetic and writing
exercises, the most odious of which was penning a weekly report to mother.
In addition to this regime, they suffered from extreme boredom, for they had
next to no contact with others their own age and thus all they could think of
doing in their free time was to lie day-dreaming for hours on the blue-
varnished floorboards in the nursery or to gaze out of the windows into the
park, where hardly a living soul was ever to be seen. At best the gardener
would be pushing a wheelbarrow across the lawn or Father would be
returning from a shoot with the gamekeeper. Only on rare crystal-clear days,
FitzGerald later recalled, could one sometimes see beyond Bredfield and
indistinctly discern, over the tree tops, the white sails of ships off the coast
ten miles away; and then one would lose oneself in vague dreams of
liberation from this childhood dungeon. Later, when he had finished his
studies at Cambridge, FitzGerald's horror of his heavily-carpeted family
home stuffed with gilded furniture, works of art, and trophies of travel was
so great that he refused to set food in it again. Instead of taking up residence
there, in keeping with his station, he moved into a tiny two-roomed cottage
on the perimeter of the estate, and there he spent the next fifteen years, from
1837 till 1853, leading a bachelor life that in many respects anticipated his
later eccentricity. In the main he kept himself occupied in his hermitage with
reading, in a variety of languages, with writing countless letters, with
making notes towards a dictionary of commonplaces, with compiling a
complete glossary of all words and phrases relating to the sea and to
seafaring and with pasting up scrap books of every conceivable description.
He had a particular predilection for the correspondence of bygone ages, such
as that of Madame de Sévigné, who became far more real to him than even
his friends who were still alive. Time after time he read what she had
written, quoted her in his own letters, continuously added to the materials he
was assembling for a Sévigné dictionary which would not only provide
commentary on all her correspondents and all the persons and places
referred to in their exchanges but would also offer a key of sorts to the way
in which she had cultivated and developed the art of writing. FitzGerald did
not complete the Sévigné project any more than he completed his other

literary schemes, and probably never wanted to. It was not until 1914, when
the era came to a close, that one of his great-nieces edited two times, now
extremely hard to by, from that voluminous compilation, which lies
preserved in a few cardboard boxes in Trinity College library. The only task
FitzGerald finished and published in his lifetime was his marvellous
rendering of the Rubaiyat of the Persian poet Omar Khayyam, with whom he
felt a curiously close affinity across a distance of eight centuries. FitzGerald
described the endless hours he spent translating this poem of two hundred
and twenty-four lines as a colloquy with the dead man and an attempt to
bring to us tidings of him. The English verses he devised for the purpose,
which radiate with a pure, seemingly unselfconscious beauty, feign an
anonymity that disdains even the least claim to authorship, and draw us,
word by word, to an invisible point where the mediaeval orient and the
fading accident can come together in a way never allowed them by the
calamitous course of history. For in and out, above, about, below,/'Tis
nothing but a Magic Shadow-Show,/Play'd in a Box whose Candle is the
Sun, / Round which the Phantom Figures come and go. The Rubaiyat was
published in 1859, and it was also in that year that William Browne, who
probably meant more to FitzGerald than anyone else on earth, died a painful
death from serious injuries sustained in a hunting accident. The paths of the
two men had first crossed on a walking tour of Wales, when FitzGerald was
twenty-three and Browne just sixteen. In a letter written immediately after
Browne's death, FitzGerald recalled how deeply moved he had been when,
on the morning after he had conversed for a while with Browne on the
steamer from Bristol, he met him again in the Tenby boarding house where
they had both taken quarters and how Browne, with a chalk mark from
playing billiards on his face, had seemed to him then like someone he had
missed for goodness knew how long. In the years that followed that first
meeting in Wales, Browne and FitzGerald often visited each other in Suffolk
or Bedfordshire, driving cross-country in a gig or rambling over the fields,
lunching at inns, watching the clouds as they drifted eastward, and perhaps
feeling the wing of time brush their temples. A little riding, driving, eating,
drinking etc. (not forgetting smoke) fill up the day, FitzGerald wrote.
Browne would have his fishing rods with him, his shotgun, and watercolour
requisites, whilst FitzGerald would take a book which he scarcely read
because he could not take his eyes off his friend. We do not know whether
he allowed himself, then or at any other time, to ponder the nature of the

desire that moved him, but his constant anxiety for Browne's health was in
itself indicative of the depth of his passion. For FitzGerald, Browne was the
personification of an ideal, but for that very reason he seemed overshadowed
by mortality from the start, and prompted fears in FitzGerald that perhaps he
will not be long to be looked at. For there are signs of decay about him.
Browne's subsequent marriage did not change the feelings FitzGerald had
for him in the slightest, but instead confirmed his obscure intuition that he
would not be able to keep him and that his friend was destined for an early
death. The love which FitzGerald probably never dared to declare was not
expressed until he wrote his letter of condolence to Browne's widow, who
doubtless laid his curious communication aside in amazement if not
consternation. FitzGerald was in his fiftieth year when he lost Browne. From
then on he withdrew increasingly within himself. He had long been refusing
his mother's regular invitations to her sumptuous dinner parties in London,
because to his mind the ritual of communal dining was the most abominable
of Society's abominations, and now he also forwent his occasional visits to
the capital's galleries and concert halls, only in exceptional instances
venturing beyond this immediate circle of friends. I think I shall shut myself
up in the remotest nook of Suffolk and let my beard grow, he wrote, and
would doubtless have done just that, had he not become disaffected with that
region too, where a new breed of landowners were working the soil for all it
could yield. They are felling all the trees, he complained, and tearing up the
hedgerows. Soon the birds will not know where to go. One copse after
another is vanishing, the grassy wayside banks where in the spring the
cowslips and violets bloomed have been ploughed up and levelled, and if
one now takes the path from Bredfield to Hasketon, which was once so
delightful, it is like crossing a desert. Given the aversion that FitzGerald had
had since childhood to his own class, the ruthless exploitation of the land,
the obsession with private property, which was pursued by means
increasingly dubious, and the ever more radical restriction of common rights,
were profoundly abhorrent to him. And so, he said, I get to the water: where
no friends are buried nor Pathways stopt up. From 1860, FitzGerald

spent a large part of his time either by the sea or on board the ocean-
going yacht he had had built and named Scandal. From Woodbridge he
would sail down the Deben and up the coast to Lowestoft, where he hired his
crew from among the herring fishers, all the time looking for a face that
reminded him of William Browne. FitzGerald sailed far out into the German
Ocean, and, just as he had always refused to dress for particular occasions,
so, instead of donning one of the newly fashionable yachting outfits, he
would wear an old frock coat and a top hat tied fast. The sole concession he
made to the stylish appearance expected of a yachtsman was the long white
feather boat which he reportedly liked to sport on deck and which fluttered
behind him in the breeze, visible at a good distance. In the late summer of
1863, FitzGerald decided to cross to Holland in the Scandal in order to see
the portrait of the young Louis Trip, painted by Ferdinand Bol in 1652,
which was in the museum in The Hague. Upon arrival in Rotterdam, his
travelling companion, one George Manby of Woodbridge, persuaded him to
view the great seaport first. Consequently, wrote FitzGerald, the two of us
went about all day long in an open carriage, now this way, now that, till I no

longer had any idea where I was, and that evening I fell exhausted into my
bed. The following day passed in Amsterdam in a like unpleasant fashion,
and not until the third day did we finally arrive in The Hague, after all
manner of tedious incidents, only to find the museum closing until the
beginning of the next week. FitzGerald, his patience already sorely tried by
the irritations of travel on land, interpreted this incomprehensible exclusion
as a mean trick the Dutch were playing on him personally, threw a fearful fit
of rage and despair in which he variously berated the narrow-minded Dutch,
his companion George Manby and himself, and insisted on returning to
Rotterdam forthwith and setting sail for home. —In those years, FitzGerald
spent the winter months in Woodbridge, where he had lodgings at a
gunsmith's on Market Hill. Often he was to be seen walking about the town
lost in thought, wearing his Inverness cape and usually, even in bad weather,
only slippers on his feet. Behind him followed his black labrador, Bletsoe,
which had been a gift from Browne. In 1869, after a dispute with the
gunsmith's wife, who found her lodger's eccentric ways unacceptable,
FitzGerald moved into his last home, a somewhat dilapidated farmhouse on
the outskirts of Woodbridge, and there, as he put it, he settled to await the
final act. His requirements, always modest in the extreme, had become even
fewer in the course of time. For decades he had eaten a diet of vegetables,
offended as he was by the consumption of large quantities of rare meat
which his contemporaries considered necessary to keep one's strength up,
and now he altogether dispensed with the chore of cooking, which struck
him as absurd, and took little but bread, butter and tea. On fine days he sat in
the garden surrounded by doves, and at other times often spent long periods
at the window, which afforded a view of a goose green fringed by pollarded
trees. In this solitude, as his letters show, he continued in remarkably good
cheer, even though he was at times assailed by what he called the blue devil
of melancholy, which had been the undoing years before of his beautiful
sister Andalusia. In the autumn of 1877 he went to London once more, to see
a performance of The Magic Flute. At the last moment, however, he was so
dispirited by the November fog, the wet, and the dirt in the streets, that he
decided against the planned visit to Covent Garden, which, he wrote, would
doubtless only have spoiled the memories of Malibran and Sontag so dear to
him. I think it is now best, he wrote, to attend these Operas as given in the
Theatre of one's own Recollections. But there was to be little time for
FitzGerald to stage such performances in his mind, for the imaginary music

was drowned out by the tinnitus that troubled him now. Moreover, his
eyesight grew steadily weaker. He was obliged to wear spectacles with blue-
or green-tinted lenses, and had his housekeeper's boy read to him. A
photograph from the 1870s, the only one he ever had taken, shows him with
head averted because (he wrote

apologetically to his nieces) his ailing eyes blinked too much if he
looked directly into the camera. —Every summer, FitzGerald paid a visit of
a few days to his friend George Crabbe, who was vicar of Merton in
Norfolk. In June 1883 he made the journey for the last time. Merton is no
further than sixty miles from Woodbridge, but travelling there over the
meandering railway network that had spread everywhere during FitzGerald's
lifetime involved five changes and took a whole day. What was stirring
within FitzGerald's breath as he leant back in his carriage watching the
hedgerows and cornfields pass by outside is not recorded, but perhaps it
resembled the feelings he once experienced as he sat in the mail coach from
Leicester to Cambridge, when the sight of the summer countryside made him
feel like an angel because suddenly, without knowing why, he found he had
tears of happiness in his eyes. At Merton, Crabbe met him from the train in
his dog cart. It had been a long and especially hot day, but FitzGerald
remarked on the cool air and remained wrapped tight in his plaid as they
drove. At table he drank a little tea but declined to eat anything. Around nine
he asked for a glass of brandy and water and retired upstairs to bed. Early
next morning, Crabbe heard him moving about his room, but when he went
somewhat later to summon him to breakfast he found him stretched out on
his bed and no longer among the living.
The shadows were lengthening as I walked in from Boulge Park to
Woodbridge, where I put up for the night at the Bull Inn. The room to which
I was shown by the landlord was under the roof. The clinking of glasses in
the bar and a low murmur of talk rose up the staircase, with the occasional
exclamation or laugh. After time was called, things gradually quietened
down. I heard the woodwork of the old half-timber building, which had
expanded in the heat of the day and was now contracting fraction by
fraction, creaking and groaning. In the gloom of the unfamiliar room, my
eyes involuntarily turned in the direction from which the sounds came,
looking for the crack that might run along the low ceiling, the spot where the
plaster was flaking from the wall or the mortar crumbling behind the
panelling. And if I closed my eyes for a while it felt as if I were in a cabin
aboard a ship on the high seas, as if the whole building were rising on the
swell of a wave, shuddering a little on the crest, and then, with a sigh,
subsiding into the depths. I did not get to sleep until day was breaking and
the song of a blackbird was in my ear, and shortly thereafter I awoke once
more from a dream in which I beheld FitzGerald, my companion of the day

before, sitting at a little blue metal table in his graden in his shirtsleeves and
wearing a black silk jabot and a tall top hat. Hollyhocks grown higher than a
man were flowering around him, chickens were scratching about in a sandy
hollow under an elder tree, and his black dog, Bletsoe, lay stretched out in
the shade, whilst I, though in the dream I was unable to see myself and was
thus like a ghost, sat opposite FitzGerald, playing a game of dominoes with
him. Beyond the flower garden an even green park, utterly deserted,
extended to the very edge of the world, where the minarets of Khorasan
soared. It was not, however, the park of the FitzGerald estate at Boulge, abut
that of a country house at the foot of the Slieve Bloom Mountains in Ireland
where I had been a guest for a short time some years ago. In my dream I
could make out far off in the distance the three-storey ivy-covered house
where the Ashburys presumably still lead their secluded lives to this day; at
least, it was a very secluded and indeed quite bizarre life at the time when I
met them. Coming from the mountains, I had enquired after accommodation
in a small, gloomy shop in Clarahill. I remember that the proprietor, a Mr
O'Hare, who was wearing a curious cinnamon-coloured overcoat of thin
calico, involved me in a lengthy conversation concerning Newton's theory of
gravity. At some point in this talk, Mr O'Hare suddenly interrupted himself
and exclaimed: The Ashburys might put you up. One of the daughters came
in here some years ago with a note offering Bed and Breakfast. I was
supposed to display it in the shop window. I can't think what became of it or
whether they ever had any guests. Perhaps I removed it when the letters had
paled in the sun. Or perhaps they came and removed it themselves. Mr
O'Hare then drove me to the Ashburys in his delivery van and waited on the
weedy forecourt until I was asked in. I had to knock several times before the
door was opened and Catherine stood there in her faded red summer dress,
with an odd stiffness that suggested she had been arrested in mid-movement
by the sight of this unannounced stranger. She gazed at me wide-eyed, or
rather, she looked right through me. Once I had explained why I was there, it
took some time for her to recover he composure, to step a pace aside, and
gesture with her left hand, scarcely perceptibly, for me to come in and take a
seat in the hall. As she walked away across the stone flags, in silence, I
noticed that she was barefoot. Without a sound she vanished in the darkness
of the background, and just as soundlessly reappeared a few minutes later, to
escort me up a staircase the broad steps of which made climbing
astonishingly easy, to the first floor and along various passages to a large

room, where the high windows afforded a view over the roofs of the stables
and outhouses and the kitchen garden onto hay meadows combed by the
wind. Beyond there were trees in various shades of green and, above them,
the faint line of the mountains, barely distinguishable from the even blue of
the sky. I cannot say how long I stood by one of the three windows,
engrossed in that view; all I remember is hearing Catherine, who was
waiting in the doorway, say, Will this be all right? and that, as I turned to her,
I stammered some incoherent reply. Only when Catherine had gone did I
take in the full size of the room. The floorboards were covered with a
velvety layer of dust. The curtains had gone and the paper had been stripped
off the walls, which had traces of whitewash with bluish streaks like the skin
of a dying body, and reminded me of one of those maps of the far north on
which next to nothing is marked. The only items of furniture in the room
were a table and chair and a narrow collapsible iron bedstead of the kind that
army officers used to have with them on campaigns. Whenever I rested on
that bed over the next few days, my consciousness began to dissolve at the
edges, so that at times I could hardly have said how I had got there or indeed
where I was. Repeatedly I felt as if I were lying in a traumatic fever in some
kind of field hospital. From outside I heard the cries of the peacocks, which
went right through me, but what I saw in my mind's eye was not the yard in
which they perched on the very top of the junk that had been piling up there
for years but a battlefield somewhere in Lombardy over which the vultures
circled, and, all around, a country laid waste by war. The armies had long
since marched on. I alone, falling from one swoon into the next, was left in a
house that had been looted of everything. These images became the more
real in my head because the Ashburys lived under their roof like refugees
who have come through dreadful ordeals and do not now dare to settle in the
place where they have ended up. It struck me that all the members of the
family were continually wandering hither and thither along the corridors and
up and down the stairs. One rarely saw them sitting calm and collected,
singly or together. Even their meals they usually ate standing. What work
they did always had about it something aimless and meaningless and seemed
not so much part of a daily routine as an expression of a deeply engrained
distress. Ever since leaving school in 1974, Edmund, the youngest had been
working on a fat-bellied boat a good ten yards in length, although, as he
casually informed me, he knew nothing about boat-building and had no
intention of ever going to sea in his unshapely barge. It's not going to be

launched. It's just something I do. I have to have something to do. Mrs
Ashbury collected flower seeds in paper bags. Once she had written the
name, date, location, colour and other details on the bags, she would clap
them over the dead heads of the blooms, in the overgrown flower beds or
further afield in the meadows, and tie them up with string. Then she would
cut off all the stalks, and bring the bagged heads indoors and hang them up
on a much-knotted line that criss-crossed what was once the library. There
were so many of these white-bagged flowerstalks hanging under the library
ceiling that they resembled clouds of paper, and when Mrs Ashbury stood on
the library steps to hang up or take down the rustling seed-bags she half-
vanished among them like a saint ascending into heaven. Once they had
been taken down, the bags were stored under some inscrutable system on the
shelves, which had evidently long since been unburdened of books. I do not
think Mrs Ashbury had any idea what distant fields the seeds she collected
might one day fall on, any more than Catherine and her two sisters Clarissa
and Christina knew why they spent several hours every day in one of the
north-facing rooms, where they had stored great quantities of remnant
fabrics, sewing multicoloured pillowcases, counterpanes and similar items.
Like giant children under an evil spell, the three unmarried daughters, much
of an age, sat on the floor amidst these mountains of material, working away
and only rarely breathing a word to each other. The movement they made as
they drew the thread sideways and upwards with every stitch reminded me
of things that were so far back in the past that I felt my heart sink at the
thought of how little time now remained. On one occasion Clarissa told me
that she and her sisters had once intended to start an interior decorating
business, but the plan came to nothing, she said, both because of their
inexperience and because there was no call in their neighbourhood for such a
service. Perhaps that was why they mostly undid what they had sewn either
on the same day, the next day or the day after that. It was also possible that
in their imagination they envisaged something of such extraordinary beauty
that the work they completed invariably disappointed them. At least that was
what I thought, when on one of my visits to their workshop they showed me
the pieces that had been spared the unstitching. One of them, a bridal gown
made of hundreds of scraps of silk embroidered with silken thread, or rather
woven over cobweb-fashion, which hung on a headless tailor's dummy, was
a work of art so colourful and of such intricacy and perfection that it seemed

almost to have come to life, and at the time I could no more believe my eyes
than now I can trust my memory.
On the evening before my departure I was standing out on the terrace
with Edmund, leaning on the stone balustrade. It was so quiet that I thought I
could hear the cries of the bats that flitted zigzag through the airspace. The
park was sinking into darkness when Edmund, after a protracted silence,
suddenly said: I have set up the projector in the library. Mother was
wondering whether you might want to see what things used to be like here.
Inside, Mrs Ashbury was already waiting for the show to begin. I sat down
beside her under the paper-bag heavens, the light went out, the projector
began to whirr, and on the bare wall above the mantelpiece the mute images
of the past appeared, at times quite still and then again following jerkily one
upon another, headlong, and rendered unclear by the projection scratches.
From a window on the upper floor one looked across the surrounding land,
the clumps of trees, fields and meadows, and vice versa, approaching the
forecourt from the park, one saw the front of the house, first seeming toy-
sized from a distance, then towering ever higher till at length it almost
toppled out of the frame. Nowhere was there a sign of neglect. The drive was
sanded, the hedges were clipped, the beds in the kitchen garden trim, and the
now tumbledown outhouses still well maintained. Later one saw the
Ashburys at tea, sitting in a kind of marquee one bright summer's day. It was
Edmund's christening, said Mrs Ashbury. Clarissa and Christina were
playing badminton. Catherine held a black Scots terrier in her arms. In the
background, an old butler was making for the entrance with a laden tray. A
maidservant with a cap on her head appeared in the doorway, holding up a
hand to shield her eyes from the sun. Edmund put in another reel. Much of
what followed had to do with work in the garden and on the estate. I
remember a slight lad pushing a huge old-fashioned wheelbarrow; a mower
pulled by a tiny pony and steered by a dwarfish driver, mowing straight lines
up and down the lawn; a view of the dark hothouse where cucumbers were
growing; and a series of over-exposed pictures of a field that looked almost
snow-white, where dozens of farm labourers were busy cutting the wheat
and binding the sheaves. When the last reel was through there was silence
for a long time in the library, which was now lit only dimly by the light from
the hall. Not until Edmund had stowed the projector in its case and left the
room did Mrs Ashbury begin to speak. She told me that she had married in
1946, immediately after her husband came out of the army, and that a few

months later, following the sudden death of her father-in-law, they had come
to Ireland, quite contrary to the expectations both of them had of their future
life, to take possession of the property he had inherited, which was then as
good as unsaleable. At that time, said Mrs Ashbury, she had had not the
slightest notion of Ireland's Troubles, and to this day they remained alien to
her. I remember waking the first night in this house, feeling I was completely
out of this world. The moon was shining in at the window, and the light lay
so strangely on the layer of wax left on the floor by more than a century of
dripping candles that I felt I was adrift on a sea of quicksilver. My husband,
said Mrs Ashbury, never said a word about the Troubles, on principle,
although he must have witnessed terrible things during the civil war, or
perhaps because of that. Only little by little, from the curt answers he gave to
my questions on the matter, did I piece together something os his family
history, and the history of the land-owning class that became hopelessly
impoverished in the decades following the civil war. But the picture I put
together was never more than a rough sketch. Apart from my extremely
reticent husband, said Mrs Ashbury, my only other source of information
was the legends about the Troubles, part tragic and part ludicrous, that had
formed during the long years of decline in the heads of our servants, whom
we had inherited together with the rest of the inventory and who were
themselves already part of history, as it were. Years after we moved in, for
instance, I learnt a little from our butler, Quincey, about that dreadful
midsummer night in 1920 when the Randolphs' house six miles away was
set on fire while the Randolphs themselves were dining with my future
parents-in-law. According to Quincey, the rebel Republicans first assembled
the servants in the hall and told them without further ado that they had one
hour to pack their personal belongings and make some tea for themselves
and the freedom fighters, and then a great fire of retribution would be raised.
First, said Mrs Ashbury, the children were woken, and the dogs and cats,
which were quite beside themselves with premonitions of disaster, were
rounded up. Later, according to Quincey, who was Colonel Randolph's valet
at the time, all the inhabitants of the house stood out on the lawn amongst
items of luggage and furniture and all the nonsensical things one grabs at in
a state of panic and fear. At the last moment, in Quincey's telling, he had had
to run up to the second floor one more time to rescue the cockatiel that
belonged to old Mrs Randolph, who, as it turned out on the following day,
was deprived in the catastrophe of her up until then perfectly lucid mind.

Powerless, they were all forced to stand by as the Republicans dragged a big
drum of petrol from the garage across the courtyard and then, with a loud
Heave ho!, rolled it up the steps and into the hall, where they spilled out the
contents. Within minutes of the first torch being hurled in, the flames were
shooting from the windows and the roof, and before long it was as if one was
looking into an immense furnace full of red-hot fire and flying sparks. I do
not think, said Mrs Ashbury, that one can even begin to imagine the thoughts
of the victims when they witness a sight like that. At all events, the
Randolphs, who had always lived fearing the worst and yet did not believe
that it could ever happen, were alerted by a gardener who had escaped on a
bicycle, and, accompanied by my parents-in-law, drove over to the blaze,
which was visible from a long way off. When they arrived at the scene of
destruction, those who had started the fire had long disappeared, and all they
could do was hug their children and join those huddled together there
speechless and paralysed with horror like shipwrecked survivors on a raft.
Not till daybreak did the fire abate and the black contours of the burnt-out
shell stand out against the sky. The ruin, said Mrs Ashbury, was
subsequently demolished. That was before my time, and I never saw it. They
say two or three hundred country houses were burnt down during the civil
war, regardless of whether they were relatively modest properties or stately
homes such as
Summerhill, where the Austrian Empress Elisabeth had once been so
happy. To the best of my knowledge, said Mrs Ashbury, people were never
harmed by the rebels. Evidently burning the houses down was the most
effective way of driving out those families who were identified, rightly or

wrongly, with the detested rule of the English. In the years after the end of
the civil war, even those who had survived unscathed left the country if they
possibly could. The only ones who stayed on were those who had no
livelihood except what they derived from their estates. Every attempt to sell
the houses and land was doomed to failure from the very start, because in the
first place there were no buyers far and wide, and in the second, even if a
purchaser had appeared, one could hardly have lived in Bournemouth or
Kensington for more than a month on the proceeds. At the same time,
nobody in Ireland had any idea how they could possibly go on. Farming was
in the doldrums, labourers were demanding wages nobody could afford to
pay, fewer crops were being planted, and incomes were steadily diminishing.
The situation grew more hopeless every year, and the signs of increasing
poverty, apparent everywhere, grew more and more ominous. Keeping up
the houses even in the most rudimentary way had long been impossible. The
paintwork was flaking off the window encasements and the doors; the
curtains became threadbare; the wallpaper peeled off the walls; the
upholstery was worn out; it was raining in everywhere, and people put out
tin tubs, bowls and pots to catch the water. Soon they were obliged to
abandon the rooms on the upper storeys, or even whole wings, and retreat to
more or less usable quarters on the ground floor. The window panes in the
locked-up rooms misted over with cobwebs, dry rot advanced, vermin bore
the spores of mould to every nook and cranny, and monstrous brownish-
purple and black fungal growths appeared on the walls and ceilings, often
the size of an ox-head. The floorboards began to give, the beams of the
ceilings sagged, and the panelling and staircases, long since rotted within,
crumbled to sulphurous yellow dust, at times overnight. Every so often,
usually after a long period of rain or extended droughts or indeed after any
change in the weather, a sudden disastrous collapse would occur in the midst
of the encroaching decay that went almost unnoticed, and had assumed the
character of normality. Just as people supposed they could hold a particular
line, some dramatic and unanticipated deterioration would compel them to
evacuate further areas, till they really had no way out and found themselves
forced to the last post, prisoners in their own homes. They say that a great-
uncle of my husband's in County Clare, who used to run his house in the
grand style, ended up living in the kitchen, said Mrs Ashbury. For years all
he supposedly ate for dinner was a simple dish of potatoes prepared by his
butler, who now had to double as his cook, although he did still wear a black

dinner jacket and open a bottle of Bordeaux, the cellar not being quite empty
yet. Great-uncle and the butler, who were both called William, so Quincey
told me, and died on the same day, both well past the age of eighty, had their
beds in the kitchen, said Mrs Ashbury, and goodness knows how often I
have wondered whether it was a sense of duty that kept the butler going till
his master no longer needed him, or whether great-uncle gave up the ghost
when his exhausted servant passed away, knowing that without his presence
he wouldn't survive a single day. Probably it was the servants, who often
worked for decades for scant wages and were no more able to find a place
elsewhere at so advanced an age than their masters were, who kept things
more or less ticking over. When they lay down to die, the end of those they
had looked after was often imminent as well. In our own case it was no
different, except that we shared in the general decline rather late in the day. I
soon realized that if the Ashburys had been able to keep their property until
after the War, it was purely because they kept putting in money from a
substantial legacy left to them in the early Thirties, which had shrunk to a
tiny amount by the time my husband died. Even so, I was always convinced
that things would improve one day. I simply refused to believe that the
society we were part of had long since collapsed. Shortly after we arrived in
Ireland, Gormanston Castle was sold at auction. Straffan was sold in 1949,
Cartin in 1950, French Park in 1953, Killeen Rockingham in 1957,
Powerscourt in 1961, not to mention the smaller estates. The extent of our
family fiasco only became clear to me when I had to fend for myself and try
to support us all somewhat. Since I had no money to pay the labourers'
wages, I soon had no choice but to give up farming. We sold off the land bit
by bit, which kept the worst at bay for a few years, and as long as we had
one or two servants in the house it was still possible to keep up appearances,
to the outside world and in our own eyes. When Quincey died, I no longer
knew what to do. First I sold the silver and china at auction, and then little
by little the pictures, the books and the furniture. But nobody ever showed
an interest in taking on the house, which was getting more and more run
down, and so we have remained tied to it, like damned souls to their place.
Whatever we have tried, from the girls' sewing to the nursery garden
Edmund once started to our notion of having paying guests, has without fail
gone wrong. you, said Mrs Ashbury, are the first guest who's ever found his
way here in the almost ten years since we put the advertisement in the
Clarahill grocer's window. Unfortunately I am a completely impractical

person, caught up in endless trains of thought. All of us are fantasists, ill-
equipped for life, the children as much as myself. It seems to me sometimes
that we never got used to being on this earth and life is just one great,
ongoing, incomprehensible blunder. When Mrs Ashbury had finished her
story, I felt that its significance for me lay in an unspoken invitation to stay
there with them and share in a life that was becoming more innocent with
every day that passed. The fact that I did not do so was a . . . failure that still
sometimes seems like a shadow crossing my soul. The next morning, when I
came to say goodbye, I had to look for Catherine for a long while. At last I
found her in the kitchen garden, which was overgrown with deadly
nightshade, valerian, angelica and shot rhubarb. In the red summer frock she
was wearing on the day of my arrival, she was leaning against the trunk of
the mulberry tree that had once marked the centre of the neatly laid-out herb
and vegetable beds within the high brick wall. I made my way through the
wilderness to the island of shade from which Catherine was gazing at me. I
have come to say goodbye, I said, stepping into the bower formed by the
spreading branches. She was holding a broad-brimmed hat like a pilgrim's,
the same red as her dress, and now that I was standing beside her she seemed
very far away. She looked right through me, her eyes vacant. I have left my
address and telephone number, so that if you ever want . . . I broke the
sentence off, not knowing how it might continue. In any case, I noticed that
Catherine was not listening. At one point, she said after a while, at one point
we thought we might raise silkworms in one of the empty rooms, But then
we never did. Oh, for the countless things one fails to do! —Years after that
last exchange with Catherine Ashbury, I saw her again, or thought I did, in
Berlin in March 1993. I had taken the underground to Schlesisches Tor, and
after strolling around that dreary part of the city for a time I came upon a
small group of people waiting to be admitted to a dilapidated building that
might once have been a garage for hackney cabs or something of the kind.
According to a billboard, an unfinished play I had never heard of, by Jakob
Michael Reinhold Lenz, was to be performed on a stage behind this quite
untheatrical façade. In the gloomy space within, the seating proved to be tiny
wooden stools, which immediately put one in a childlike mood of craving
marvels. Before I could account to myself for my thoughts, there she stood
on the stage, incredibly wearing the same red dress, with the same light-
coloured hair and holding in her hand the same pilgrim's hat, she or her very
image, Catherine of Siena, in an empty room, and then far from her father's

house, wearied by the heat of the day and the thorns and stones. In the
background, I recall, was a pale view of mountains, perhaps in the Trentino,
watery green as if they had just risen from ice-bound polar seas. And
Catherine, as the sunlight faded, sank down below a tree, took off her shoes
and laid her hat aside. I think I shall sleep here, she said, or rest a little. Be
still, my heart. The tranquil evening will draw its mantle over our ailing
senses . . .
From Woodbridge to Orford, down to the sea, is a good four-hour walk.
The roads and tracks pass through dry, empty stretches of land which, by the
end of a long summer, are almost like a desert. This sparsely populated part
of the country has hardly ever been cultivated, and, throughout the ages, was
never more than a pasture for sheep reaching from one horizon to the other.
When the shepherds and their flocks disappeared in the early nineteenth
century, heather and scrub began to spread. This was encouraged as far as
possible by the lords of the manors of Rendlesham Villa, Sudbourne Hall,
Orwell Park and Ash High House, who had in their possession almost the
whole of the Sandlings, in order to create favourable conditions for the
hunting of small game, which had become fashionable in the Victorian age.
Men of middle-class background who had achieved great wealth through
industrial enterprise, wanting to establish a legitimate position in higher
society, acquired large country mansions and estates, where they abandoned
the utilitarian principles they had always upheld in favour of hunting and
shooting, which, although it was quite useless and bent only on destruction,
was not considered by anyone as an aberration. In the past, hunting had been
the privilege of royalty and the aristocracy, and had been pursued in parks
and chases established over centuries especially for the purpose, but now
anyone who wanted to transmute their stock market gains into status and
repute would hold hunting parties at their estates, several times a season,
with as much ostentation as possible. Beside the name and rank of the
invited guests, the respect that accrued to the host of such parties was in
direct proportion to the number of creatures that were killed. The
management of the estate was thus governed by considerations of what was
necessary to maintain and increase the stocks of game. Thousands and
thousands of pheasants were raised every year in pens, to be let loose later
into the huge hunting preserves, which were now lost to farming and made
inaccessible. As their rights were curtailed, the rural population not engaged
in rearing pheasants, breeding gun dogs, as gamekeepers or beaters or in any

other capacity connected with shooting, were forced to quit the places where
they had lived for generations. As a consequence, in the early years of the
twentieth century, at Hollesley Bay, just inland from the coast, a labour
colony later known as Colonial College was established, from which those
for whom there was no future went out to New Zealand or Australia after a
given time. The Hollesley Bay premises are now a borstal, and young
offenders can be seen at work in the fields nearby, always in groups and
wearing luminous orange jackets. The pheasant craze was at its height in the
decades before the First World War, when Sudbourne Hall alone employed
two dozen gamekeepers, and a tailor for the sole purpose of keeping their
livery in trim. There were times when six thousand pheasants were gunned
down in a single day, not to mention the other fowl, hares and rabbits. The
staggering scores were punctiliously recorded in the game books of the
rivalling estates. One of the foremost shooting domains in the Sandlings was
Bawdsey, with more than eight thousand acres on the north bank of the
Deben. In the early 1880s, Sir Cuthbert Quilter, a business baron who had
risen from the lower classes, had a family

seat built on a prominent site by the river estuary, reminiscent both of an
Elizabethan mansion and of a maharajah's palace. Erecting this architectural
marvel was a demonstration for Quilter of the justice of his claim to status, a
demonstration quite as unyielding as the choice of his heraldic motto, plutôt
mourir que changer, which refuted all bourgeois compromise. At that time,
the craving for power in men of his kind was at its most acute. From where
they stood there seemed no reason why things should not go on in this vein
forever, from one spectacular success to the next. It was no coincidence that
the German Empress was taking a convalescent holiday across the river in
Felixstowe, which had become a desirable resort in recent years. For weeks,
the royal yacht Hohenzollern lay at anchor there, a visible token of the
possibilities now open to the entrepreneurial spirit. Under the patronage of
their imperial majesties, the North Sea coast might become one great health
resort for the upper classes, equipped with all the amenities of modern life.
Everywhere, hotels mushroomed from the barren land. Promenades and
bathing facilities were established, and piers grew out
into the sea. Even in the most abandoned spot in the entire region,
Shingle Street, which now consists of just one wretched row of humble
houses and cottages and where I have never encountered a single human
being, a spa centre by the grandiose name of German Ocean Mansions
designed for two hundred guests was built at the time, if one can believe the
records, and staffed with personnel who were recruited from germany. Today

there is no more trace of it. Indeed, there seems to have been all manner of
ties across the North Sea between the British and German Empires at that
period, ties that were expressed first and foremost in the colossal
manifestations of bad taste of those who wanted a place in the sun no matter
at what cost. Cuthbert Quilter's Anglo-Indian fairy-tale palace in the dunes
would doubtless have appealed to the German Kaiser's artistic sensibility,
since he had a pronounced penchant for any kind of extravagance. Likewise
one can picture Quilter, who added another tower to his beachfront castle for
every million he added to his fortune, as a guest abord the Hohenzollern.
One imagines him, say, together with gentlemen from the Admiralty who
had also been invited, at the gymnastic exercises which preceded Sunday
service at sea. What daring plans might not a man of Quilter's ilk have
evolved, egged on by a likeminded man such as Kaiser Wilhelm—
envisaging an open-air paradise extending from Felixstowe via Norderney to
Sylt, to keep the nations fit; or the foundation of a new North Sea
civilization, if not indeed an Anglo-German global alliance, symbolized by a
state cathedral, visible far and wide across the waves, on the island of
Heligoland. In reality, of course, history took a quite different turn, for,
whenever one is imagining a bright future, the next disaster is just around the
corner. War was declared, the German hotel employees were sent back
home, there were no more summer visitors, and one morning a zeppelin like
an airborne whale appeared over the coast, while across the Channel train
after train with troops and equipment rolled to the front, whole tracts of land
were ploughed up by mortar fire, and the death strip between the front lines
was strewn with phosphorescent corpses. The German kaiser lost his
Empire, and the world of Cuthbert Quilter too went into a gradual decline.
His means, which had once seemed inexhaustible, dwindled to such an
extent that maintaining the estate no longer made any sense. Raymond
Quilter, who inherited Bawdsey, entertained the holidaymakers at
Felixstowe, who were now of a somewhat less superior breed, with
sensational parachute jumps onto the beach. In 1936 he was obliged to sell
Bawdsey Manor to the nation. THe proceeds were sufficient to cover his tax
liabilities and to finance his passion for flying, which meant more to him
than anything else. Having surrendered the family property, he moved into
the former chauffeur's quarters, but would still stay at the Dorchester when
in London. As a token of the special esteem in which he was held there, the
Quilter standard, a golden pheasant on a black ground, was hoisted alongside

the Union Jack whenever he arrived. He was accorded this rare privilege by
the establishment's reserved staff because of the reputation for chivalry he
had enjoyed ever since he had parted, without regret, from the estates his
great-uncle had acquired, since which time, apart from a modest amount of
independent capital, he had owned nothing but his aeroplane and a runway
in an isolated field.
In the years following the First World War, countless estates were broken
up in the same way as Quilter's Bawdsey. The manor houses were either left
to fall down or used for other purposes, as boys' boarding schools, approved
schools, insane asylums, old people's homes, or reception camps for refugees
from the Third Reich. Bawdsey Manor itself was for a long time the
domicile and research centre of the team under Robert Watson-Watt that
developed radar, which now spreads its invisible net through out the entire
airspace. To this day, the area between Woodbridge and the sea remains full
of military installations. Time and again, as one walks across the wide
plains, one passes barracks, gateways and fenced-off areas where, behind
thin plantations of Scots pines, weapons are concealed in camouflaged
hanars and grass-covered bunkers, the weapons with which, if an emergency
should arise, whole countries and continents can be transformed into
smoking heaps of stone and ash in no time. Not far from Orford, and already
tired from my long walk, this notion took possession of me when I was hit
by a sandstorm. I was approaching the eastern fringe of Rendlesham Forest,
which covers several square miles and was for the most part reduced to
broken and splintered timber in the terrible hurricane of the 16th of October
1987. Suddenly, in the space of a few minutes, the bright sky darkened and a
wind came up,

blowing the dust across the arid land in sinister spirals. The last
flickering remnants of daylight were being extinguished and all contours
disappeared in the greyish-brown, smothering gloom that was soon lashed
by strong, unrelenting gusts. I crouched behind a rampart of tree stumps that
had been bulldozed into long lines after the great hurricane. As darkness
closed in from the horizon like a noose being tightened, I tried in vain to
make out, through the swirling and ever denser obscurement, landmarks that
a short while ago still stood out clearly, but with each passing moment the
space around became more constricted. Even in my immediate vicinity I
could soon not distinguish any line or shape at all. The mealy dust streamed
from left to right, from right to left, to and fro on every side, rising on high
and powdering down, nothing but a dancing grainy whirl for what must have
been an hour, while further inland, as I later learnt, a heavy thunderstorm
had broken. When the worst was over, the wavy drifts of sand that had

buried the broken timber emerged from the gloom. Gasping for breath, my
mouth and throat dry, I crawled out of the hollow that had formed around me
like the last survivor of a caravan that had come to grief in the desert. A
deathly silence prevailed. There was not a breath, not a birdsong to be heard,
not a rustle, nothing. And although it now grew lighter once more, the sun,
which was at its zenith, remained hidden behind the banners of pollen-fine
dust that hung for a long time in the air. This, I thought, will be what is left
after the earth has ground itself down. —I walked the rest of the way in a
daze. All I remember is that my tongue was stuck to the roof of my mouth
and that I felt as if I were walking on the spot. When at last I reached Orford,
I climbed to the top of the castle keep, from where there is a view over the
houses of the town, the green gardens and pallid fenlands, and the coastline
to north and south, lost in the shimmering distance. Orford Castle was
completed in 1165
and for centuries was the foremost bastion against the constant threat of
invasion. Not until Napoleon was contemplating the conquest of the British
Isles—his engineers audaciously planning to dig a tunnel under the Channel,

and envisaging an armada of hot-air balloons advancing on the English coast
—were new defensive measures taken, with the building of martello towers
along the seashore, a mile or so apart. There are seven of these circular forts
between Felixstowe and Orford alone. To the best of my knowledge, their
effectiveness was never put to the test. The garrisons were soon withdrawn,
and ever since these masonry shells have served as homes for the owls that
make their soundless flights at dusk from the battlements. In the early
Forties, the scientists and technicians at Bawdsey built radar masts along the
east coast, eerie wooden structures more than eighty yards high which could
sometimes be heard creaking in the night. No one knew what purpose they
served any more than they knew about the many other secret projects then
being pursued in the military research establishments around Orford.
Naturally this gave rise to all manner of speculation about an invisible web
of death rays, a new kind of nerve gas, or some hideous means of mass
destruction that would come into play if the Germans attempted a landing.
And it is a fact that until recently a file labelled Evacuation of the Civil
Population from Shingle Street, Suffolk was in the archives of the Ministry of
Defence, embargoed for seventy-five years as distinct from the usual
practice of releasing documents after thirty, on the grounds that (so the
irrepressible rumours claimed) it gave details of a horrifying incident in
Shingle Street for which no government could accept public responsibility. I
myself heard, for instance, that experiments were conducted at Shingle
Street with biological weapons designed to make whole regions
uninhabitable. I also heard tell of a system of pipes extending far out to sea,
by means of which a petroleum inferno could be unleashed with such
explosive rapidity, in the event of an invasion, that the very sea would start
to boil. In the course of the preparatory experimentations, an entire company
of English sappers were said to have met their deaths, inadvertently as it
were, in the most appalling manner, according to eye witnesses who claimed
to have seen the charred bodies, contorted with pain, lying on the beach or
still out at sea in their boats. Others maintain that those who died in the wall
of fire were German landing forces wearing English uniforms. When access
to the Shingle Street following a lengthy campaign was finally granted in
1992 in the local press, it revealed nothing that might have justified the top-
secret classification, or

substantiated the stories that had been circulating since the end of the
war. But it seems likely, one commentator wrote, that sensitive material was
removed before the file was opened, and so the mystery of Shingle Street
remains. —Presumably part of the reason why rumours like this one
concerning Shingle Street endured so obstinately was that, during the Cold
War era, the Ministry of Defence continued to maintain Secret Weapons
Research Establishments on the coast of Suffolk, and imposed the strictest
silence on the work carried out in them. The inhabitants of Orford, for
example, could only speculate about what went on at the Orfordness site,
which, though perfectly visible from the town, was effectively no easier to
reach than the Nevada desert or an atoll in the South Seas. For my part, I
well recall standing down by the harbour when I first visited Orford in 1972
and looking across to what the locals simply called "the island", which
resembled a penal colony in the Far East. I had been studying the curious
coastal land formations at Orford on the map, and was interested in the
promontory of Orfordness, which seemed to have an extraterritorial quality
about it. Stone by stone, over a period of millennia, it had shifted down from
the north across the mouth of the River Alde, in such a way that the tidal
lower reaches, known as the ore, run for some twelve miles just inside the
present coastline before flowing into the sea. When I was first in Orford, it
was forbidden to approach "the island", but now there was no longer any
obstacle to going there, since, some years before, the Ministry of Defence
had abandoned secret research at that site. One of the men sitting idly on the
harbour wall offered to take me over for a few pounds and fetch me later
after I had had a look around. As we crossed the river in his blue-painted
boat, he told me that people still mostly avoided Orfordness. Even the beach
fishermen, who were no strangers to solitude, had given up night-fishing out
there after a few attempts, allegedly because it wasn't worth their while, but
in reality because they couldn't stand the god-forsaken loneliness of that
outpost in the middle of nowhere, and in some cases even became
emotionally disturbed for some time. Once we were on the other side, I took
leave of my ferryman and, after climbing over the embankment, walked
along a partially overgrown tarmac track running straight through a vast,
yellowing field. The day was dull and oppressive, and there was so little
breeze that not even the ears of the delicate quaking grass were nodding. It
was as if I were passing through an undiscovered country, and I still
remember that I felt, at the same time, both utterly liberated and deeply

despondent. I had not a single thought in my head. With each step that I
took, the emptiness within and the emptiness without grew ever greater and
the silence more profound. perhaps that was why I was frightened almost to
death when a hare that had been hiding in the tufts of grass by the wayside
started up, right at my feet, and shot off down the rough track before darting
sideways, this way, then that, into the field. It must have been cowering there
as I approached, heart pounding as it waited, until it was almost too late to
get away with its life. In that very fraction of a second when its paralysed
state turned into panic and flight, its fear cut right through me. I still see
what occurred in that one tremulous instant with an undiminished clarity. I
see the edge of the grey tarmac and every individual blade of grass, I see the
hare leaping out of its hiding-place, with its ears laid back and a curiously
human expression on its face that was rigid with terror and strangely
divided; and in its eyes, turning to look back as it fled and almost popping
out of its head with fright, I see myself, become one with it. Not till half-an-
hour later, when I reached the broad dyke that separates the grass expanse
from the pebble bank that slopes to the shoreline, did the blood cease its
clamour in my veins. For a long while I stood on the bridge that leads to the
former research establishment. Far behind me to the west,

scarcely to be discerned, were the gentle slopes of the inhabited land; to
the north and south, in flashes of silver, gleamed the muddy bed of a dead
arm of the river, through which now, at low tide, only a meagre trickle ran;
and ahead lay nothing but destruction. From a distance, the concrete shells,
shored up with stones,

in which for most of my lifetime hundreds of boffins had been at work
devising new weapons systems, looked (probably because of their odd
conical shape) like the tumuli in which the mighty and powerful were buried
in prehistoric times with all their tools and utensils, silver and gold. My
sense of being on ground intended for purposes transcending the profane
was heightened by a number of buildings that resembled temples or pagodas,

which seemed quite out of place in these military installations. But the
closer I came to these ruins, the more any notion of a mysterious isle of the
dead receded, and the more I imagined myself amidst the remains of our
own civilization after its extinction in some future catastrophe. To me too, as
for some latter-day stranger ignorant of the nature of our society wandering
about among heaps of scrap metal and defunct machinery, the beings who
had once lived and worked here were an enigma, as was the purpose of the
primitive contraptions and fittings inside the bunkers, the iron rails under the
ceilings, the hooks on the still partially tiled walls, the shower heads the size
of plates, the ramps and the soakaways. Where and in what time I truly was
that day at Orfordness I cannot say, even now as I write these words. All I do
know is that I finally walked along the raised embankment from the Chinese
Wall bridge past the old pumphouse towards the landing stage, to my left in
the fading fields a collection of black Nissen huts, and to my right, across the
river, the mainland. As I was sitting on the breakwater waiting for the
ferryman, the evening sun emerged from behind the clouds, bathing in its
light the far-reaching arc of the seashore. The tide was advancing up the
river, the water was shining like tinplate, and from the radio masts high
above the marshes came an even, scarcely audible hum. The roofs and
towers of Orford showed among the tree tops, seeming so close that I could
touch them. There, I thought, I was once at home. And then, through the
growing dazzle of the light in my eyes, I suddenly saw, amidst the darkening
colours, the sails of the long-vanished windmills turning heavily in the wind.
9
After Orford, I headed inland travelling on one of the Eastern Counties
Omnibus Company's red buses, going through Woodbridge to Yoxford
where I set out on foot in a north-westerly direction along the old Roman
road, into the thinly populated countryside that lies to the south of Harleston.
I walked for nearly four hours, and in all that time I saw nothing apart from
harvested cornfields stretching away into the distance under a sky heavy
with clouds, and dark islands of trees surrounding the farmsteads which
stood well back from the road, a mile or two apart from each other. I
encountered hardly any vehicles while treading this seemingly unending
straight, and I knew then as little as I know now whether walking in this
solitary way was more of a pleasure or a pain. At times on that day, which I

recall as being both leaden and unreal, a gap would open up among the
billowing clouds. Then the rays of the sun would reach down to the earth,
lighting up patches here and there and making a fan-shaped pattern as they
descended, of the sort that used to appear in religious pictures symbolizing
the presence above us of grace and providence. It was afternoon by the time
I came to the lane which leaves the Roman road across a cattle grid and
leads through a meadow to Chestnut Tree Farm, an ancient moated house,
where Thomas Abrams has been working on a model of the Temple of
Jerusalem for a good twenty years. Now in his early sixties, Thomas Abrams
has been a farmer all his life. He took to model-making soon after he left the
village school, and like many of his kind he would spend the long winter
evenings glueing little pieces of wood together to build all sorts of barques
and sailing boats and famous ships such as the Cutty Sark and the Mary
Rose. This pastime soon developed into a passion, and together with the
interest he had long taken, as a Methodist lay preacher, in the factual basis of
Biblical history, it gave him the idea, one evening towards the end of the
Sixties, just as he was bedding the farm animals down for the night (so he
told me), of recreating the Temple of Jerusalem exactly as it was at the
beginning of our time. —Chestnut Tree Farm is a silent and somewhat
sombrous place. Never yet, on my many visits, having come along the lane
and crossed the little bridge over the moat to go up to the house, have I
found anyone about. Even tapping with the heavy brass knocker brings
nobody to the door. The big chestnut tree in the front yard, which must be
several hundred years old, is motionless. Even the ducks on the water in the
moat do not stir. If one takes a look inside through the window, it seems as if
the mirror-bright dining table, the mahogany chest of drawers, the armchairs
of burgundy red velvet, the hearth, and the ornaments and china figurines set
out on the mantelpiece, had been drowsing there undisturbed for ever, so that
one might well think that the owners have departed or died. But just as one is
about to turn away, having waited and listened a while and feeling that one
must have come at an inopportune moment, one sees Thomas Abrams
waiting a little way off. And that is just how it was when I arrived there on
foot from Yoxford on that late summer afternoon. As always, Thomas
Abrams was wearing his green overalls and watchmaker's glasses. We
exchanged a few words of no consequence as we walked to the barn in
which the Temple was now nearing completion. Owing, however, to the size
of the model, which covers nearly ten square yards, and to the minuteness

and precision of the individual pieces, this process of completion is going so
slowly that it is difficult to see any change from one year to the next, even
though Thomas Abrams has almost given up farming, he told me, in order to
be able to devote most of his time to the building of the Temple. He had just
a few animals left, he said, and that more out of affection than any wish to
profit from them. As I must have seen, the broad arable fields around the
house had all been put back to pasture, and the standing hay was sold to one
of his neighbours. It was ages since he had last driven a tractor. Hardly a day
now passed that he did not work on the Temple for at least an hour or two.
He had spent the past month painting about a hundred of the more than two
thousand figures, no more than a quarter of an inch high, that peopled the
Temple precincts. Then there are the alterations that need to be made,
Thomas Abrams said, whenever my research leads to new findings. It is well
known that archaeologists are divided amongst themselves as to the exact
layout of the Temple; nor are my own often hard-gained insights always
more reliable than the views of the squabbling scholars, even though my
model is now thought to be the most accurate replica of the Temple ever
produced. Thomas Abrams told me that he now received visitors from all
over the world, historians from Oxford and Jehovah's Witnesses from
Manchester, archaeological experts from the Holy Land, ultraorthodox Jews
from London and representatives of evangelist sects from California, who
had put to him the proposition that a full-size replica of the Temple should
be built in the Nevada desert under his instructions. Various television
companies and publishers were seeking to entice him, and Lord Rothschild
had even offered to house the completed Temple in the entrance hall of his
mansion near Aylesbury, and grant access to the public. The only advantage
which had accrued to him personally as a result of the interest created by his
work was that his neighbours, together with those members of his own
family who had more or less openly expressed their doubts about whether he
was of sound mind, were now a little more restrained in their disparaging
comments. He could quite understand, said Thomas Abrams, how easy it
was to consider someone barmy, who for so many years immersed himself
deeper and deeper into a fantasy world and spent his time in an unheated
barn fiddling about with such an apparently never ending, meaningless and
pointless project, particularly when that same person was failing to look after
his fields and to collect the subsidies he was entitled to. While the opinion of
his neighbours, who had become fat on the senseless Brussels agricultural

policy, had never concerned him that much, the fact that it must have at
times have seemed to his wife and children that he was out of his mind was
something that weighed on him rather more than he admitted. And so, he
said, the day that Lord Rothschild drove into my yard in his limousine was
indeed an important turning point in my life, because ever since then even
the family have looked on me as a scholar engaged in serious study. On the
other hand, of course, the constantly growing number of visitors keeps me
from my work, and the work that still remains to be done is enormous. You
might well say that because of my increasingly accurate knowledge, the task
now seems in every respect more difficult to complete than ten or fifteen
years ago. One of the American evangelists once asked me whether the
Temple was inspired by divine revelation. And when I said to him it's
nothing to do with divine revelation, he was very disappointed. If it had been
divine revelation, I said to him, why would I have had to make alterations as
I went along? No, it's just research really and work, endless hours of work,
Thomas Abrams said. You had to study the Mishnah, he continued, and
every other available source, and Roman architecture, and the distinctive
features of the edifices raised by Herod in Masada and Borodium, because
that was the only way of arriving at the right ideas. In the final analysis, our
entire work is based on nothing but ideas, ideas which change over the years
and which time and again cause one to tear down what one had thought to be
finished, and begin again from scratch. I would more than likely never have
started building the Temple if I had had any notion of how my work would
get out of hand, and of the demands it would make on me as it became ever
more complex. After all, if the Temple is to create the impression of being
true to life, I have to make every one of the tiny coffes on the ceilings, every
one of the hundreds of columns, and every single one of the many thousands
of diminutive stone blocks by hand, and paint them as well. Now, as the
edges of my field of vision are beginning to darken, I sometimes wonder if I
will ever finish the Temple and whether all I have done so far has not been a
wretched waste of time.

But on other days, when the evening light streams in through this
window and I allow myself to be taken in by the overall view, then I see for
a moment the Temple with its antechambers and the living quarters of the
priesthood, the Roman garrison, the bath-houses, the market stalls, the
sacrificial altars, covered walkways and the booths of the moneylenders, the
great gateways and staircases, the forecourts and outer provinces and the
mountains in the background, as if everything were already completed and
as if I were gazing into eternity. In closing, Thomas Abrams dug out a
magazine from under a pile of papers and showed me a double-page aerial
view of the Temple precinct as it is today: white stones, dark cypresses, and
in the centre, the golden Dome of the Rock, which immediately brought to
mind the dome of the new Sizewell reactor, which can be seen on moonlit
nights shining like a shrine far across the land and sea. The Temple, Thomas
Abrams said as we left his workshop, endured for only a hundred years.
Perhaps this one will last a little longer. On the bridge over the moat, where
we lingered for a while, Thomas Abrams told me how much he liked the
ducks, a couple of which were quietly paddling around in the water and
snapping up the food which he now and then took out of the pocket of his
overalls and threw down for them. I have always kept ducks, he said, even as
a child, and the colours of their plumage, in particular the dark green and
snow white, seemed to me the only possible answer to the questions that are
on my mind. That is how it has been for as long as I can remember. As I took
my leave and mentioned that I had walked over from Yoxford and was now
going on to Harleston, Thomas said that he would drive me as he had an
errand in town anyway. So we spent the quarter of an hour to Harleston
sitting side by side in the cab of his truck, and I wished that the short drive
through the country would never come to an end, that we could go on and
on, all the way to Jerusalem. But instead I had to get out at the Saracen's
Head in Harleston, an inn several centuries old whose guest rooms, as it
transpired, were furnished with the most fearful pieces one can imagine. The
headboard of the pink bed consisted of a black marbled formica construction
nearly five feet high, with various drawers and compartments, rather like an
altar; the thin-legged dressing-table was lavishly decorated with gold
arabesques; and the mirror, which was fitted into the door of the wardrobe,
made one look strangely deformed. As the wooden floorboards were very
uneven and sloped towards the window, all the furniture stood at something
of a tilt, so that I was pursued even while asleep by the feeling that the house

was about to fall down. It was therefore with a certain relief that I left the
Saracen's Head the following morning and walked eastward out of the town
into the open fields. The stretch of land which I now traversed in a wide arc
was no more densely populated than the one I journeyed through on the
previous day. Every couple of miles there is a hamlet, and without exception
these hamlets are named after the patron saints of their churches: St Mary
and St Michael, St Peter, St James, St Andrew, St Lawrence, St John and St
Cross, and as a result the people living there call the entire area The Saints.
They say such things as: He bought land in The Saints, clouds are coming up
over The Saints, that's somewhere out in The Saints and so on. My own
feeling, as I walked over the featureless plain, was that I might well lose my
bearings in The Saints, so often was I forced to change direction or strike out
across country due to the labyrinthine system of footpaths and the many
places where a right of way marked on the map had been ploughed up or
was now overgrown. A couple of times I began to think I was lost, but then,
around noon, I saw my goal, the round tower of the church of Ilketshall St
Margaret, appear in the distance. Half an hour later I was sitting leaning
against one of the gravestones in the cemetery of that parish, whose souls
number no more today than in the Middle Ages. The eighteenth- and
nineteenth-century parsons who were the incumbents of such remote livings
usually dwelt with their families in the nearest small town and drove out into
the country by pony cart just once or twice a week in order to hold services
and make a few calls. One such vicar of Ilketshall St Margaret was the
Reverend Ives, a mathematician and Hellenist of some standing, who lived
with his wife and daughter in Bungay and was said to have liked his glass of
sparkling Canary wine at dusk. During the summer of 1795 they were visited
every day by a young French nobleman who had fled to England to escape
the terrors of the Revolution. Ives talked with him about Homer's epics,
Newton's mathematical theories, and the journeys which both of them had
made in America. What great expanses that continent covered, and how
immense the forests were, with trees whose trunks towered higher than the
pillars of the tallest cathedrals! And the plunging waters of Niagara—what
did their eternal thunder mean if there were not also someone standing at the
edge of the cataract conscious of his forlornness in this world. Charlotte, the
rector's fifteen-year-old daughter, would listen to these conversations with
growing fascination, especially when their distinguished guest conjured up
pictures in which warriors adorned with feathers appeared, and Indian

maidens about whose dark skin there was a touch of moral pallor. Once she
was so overcome with emotion that she ran out quickly into the garden on
hearing of a hermit's good dog that led one such maiden, in her heart already
a Christian, safely through the dangerous wilderness. When the teller of the
tale later asked her what it was in his account that had so moved her,
Charlotte answered that it was mainly the image of the dog carrying a
lantern on a stick in his mouth, lighting the way through the night for the
frightened Atala. It was always such little details rather than the lofty ideas
that went straight to her heart. In the manner of such things, it was surely
inevitable that the Viacomte, who was exiled from his homeland and
undoubtedly surrounded by the aura of a romantic hero in Charlotte's eyes
took on the rule of tutor and confidant as the weeks went by. Whilst it goes
without saying that she practised her French, by taking dictation and
engaging in conversation, Charlotte also asked her friend to devise more
extensive courses of study for her, to include antiquity, the topography of the
Holy Land, and Italian literature. They spent long hours in the afternoon
together reading Tasso's Gerusalemme Liberata and the Vita Nuova, and in
all likelihood there were times when the young girl's throat flushed scarlet
and the Vicomte felt the thuds of his heartbeat right under his jabot. Their
day always ended with a music lesson. When dusk was settling inside the
house, but the light streaming in from the west still lit the garden, Charlotte
would play some piece or other from her repertoire, and the Vicomte, appuyé
au bout du piano, would listen to her in silence. He was aware that their
studies brought them closer every day, and, convinced that he was not fit to
pick up her glove, sought to conduct himself with the utmost restraint, but
nonetheless remained irresistibly drawn to her. With some dismay, as he later
wrote in his Mémoires d'outre-tombe, I could foresee the moment at which I
would be obliged to leave. The farewell dinner was a sad occasion during
which no one knew what to say, and when it was over, much to the
astonishment of the Vicomte, it was not the father but the father who
withdrew with Charlotte to the drawing room. Although he was on the point
of departure, the mother—who, the Vicomte noticed, was herself most
seductive in the unusual role which she was now playing in the teeth of
convention—asked his hand in marriage for her daughter, whose heart, she
said, was entirely his. You no longer have a native country, your property has
been disposed of, your parents are no longer alive: what could possibly take
you back to France? Stay here with us and be our adopted son and heir. The

Vicomte, who could scarcely believe the generosity of this offer made to an
impoverished emigrant, was thrown into the greatest conceivable inner
turmoil by her proposal, which it seemed the Reverend Ives had approved.
For while on the one hand, he wrote, he desired nothing so much as to be
able to spend the rest of his life unknown to the world in the bosom of this
solitary family, on the other hand the melodramatic moment had now come
when he would have to disclose the fact that he was married. While the
alliance he had entered into in France had been arranged by his sisters
almost without consulting him and had remained a mere formality, this did
not in the slightest alter the untenable situation in which he now found
himself. Mme Ives had put her offer to him with her eyes half downcast, and
when he responded with the despairing cry Arrêtez! Je suis marié! she fell
into a swoon, and he was left with no other choice than to leave that
hospitable house at once with the resolution never to return. Later, setting
down his memories of that ill-omened day, he wondered how it would have
been if he had undergone the transformation and led the life of a gentleman
chasseur in that remote English county. It is probable that I should never
have written a single word. In due course I should have even forgotten my
own language. How great would France's loss have been, he asks, if I had
vanished into thin air like that? And would it not, in the end, have been a
better life? Is it not wrong to squander one's chance of happiness in order to
indulge a talent? Will what I have written survive beyond the grave? Will
there be anyone able to comprehend it in a world the very foundations of
which are changed? —The Vicomte wrote these words in 1822. He was now
the ambassador of the French king at the court of George IV. One morning,
when he was sitting working in his study, his valet announced that a Lady
Sutton had arrived in her carriage and wished to speak to him. When this
strange caller crossed the threshold, accompanied by two boys aged about
sixteen who, like herself, were in mourning, he had the impression that she
found it difficult to remain upright owing to some inner agitation. The
Vicomte took her by the hand and led her to an armchair. The two boys stood
by her side. And the lady, speaking in a quiet, broken voice as she brushed
back the black silk ribbons that hung from her bonnet, said: My lord, do you
remember me? And I, the Vicomte wrote, recognised her. After twenty-
seven years I was sitting at her side again, the tears swelled up in my eyes,
and I saw her, through the veil of those tears, exactly as she had been during
that summer which had long sunk into the shades of memory. Et vous,

Madame, me reconnaissez-vous? I asked her. She did not reply, however, but
looked at me with such a sad smile that I realized that we had meant far
more to each other than I had admitted to myself at the time. —I am in
mourning for my mother, she said; my father died years ago. As she said
this, she withdrew her hand and covered her face. My children, she
continued after some time, are the sons of Admiral Sutton, whom I married
three years after you left us. You must excuse me now. I cannot say any
more today. —She took my arm, the Vicomte writes in his memoirs, and as I
led her through the house, down the stairs and back to her carriage, I held
her hand against my heart and could feel that she was trembling. She drove
off with her two dark-haired boys sitting opposite her like two mute
servants. Quel bouleversement des destinées! Over the next few days, the
Vicomte writes, I visited Lady Sutton four times at the address in
Kensington that she had given me. On none of these occasions were her sons
at home. We talked and were silent, and with each Do you remember? our
past life rose more clearly from the cruel abyss of time. On my fourth visit,
Charlotte asked me to put in a good word with george Canning, who had just
been made Governor-General of India, for the elder of her two sons, who
planned to go to Bombay. It was solely on account of this request, she said,
that she had come to london, and she must now return to Bungay. Farewell! I
shall never see you again! Farewell! —After this painful parting I spent long
hours shut away in my study at the embassy and, with repeated interruptions
for vain reflection and brooding, committed our unhappy story to paper. As I
did so, I was troubled by the question of whether in the writing I should not
once again betray and lose Charlotte Ives, and this time for ever. But the fact
is that writing is the only way in which I am able to cope with the memories
which overwhelm me so frequently and so unexpectedly. If they remained
locked away, they would become heavier and heavier as time went on, so
that in the end I would succumb under their mounting weight. Memories lie
slumbering within us for months and years, quietly proliferating, until they
are woken by some trifle and in some strange way blind us to life. How often
this has caused me to feel that my memories, and the labours expended in
writing them down are all part of the same humiliating and, at bottom,
contemptible business! And yet, what would we be without memory? We
would not be capable of ordering even the simplest thoughts, the most
sensitive heart would lose the ability to show affection, our existence would
be a mere never-ending chain of meaningless moments, and there would not

be the faintest trace of a past. How wretched this life of ours is! —so full of
false conceits, so futile, that it is little more than the shadow of the chimeras
loosed by memory. My sense of estrangement is becoming more and more
dreadful. When I walked in Hyde Park yesterday, I felt unspeakably
wretched and outcast amongst the colourful crowd. As if from afar, I
watched the beautiful young English women with the same bewilderment of
my senses that I used to feel in an embrace. And today I do not raise my eyes
from my work. I have become almost invisible, to some extent like a dead
man. Perhaps that is why it appears to me that this world which I have very
nearly left behind is shrouded in some peculiar mystery.
The story of Charlotte Ives is only a minute fragment of the several
thousand pages of the Vicomte de Chateaubriand's memoirs. It was in Rome
in 1806 that he first felt the desire to search the depths of his soul. In 1811,
Chateaubriand began this undertaking in earnest, and from that time onwards
he devoted himself to his recollections whenever the circumstances of his at
once glorious and painful life permitted. His personal feelings and thoughts
unfolded against the background of the momentous upheavals of those years:
the Revolution, the Reign of Terror, his own exile, the rise and fall of
Napoleon, the Restoration and the July Monarchy all were part of this
interminable play performed upon the world's stage, a play which took its
toll on the privileged observer no less than on the nameless masses. The
scene was constantly changing. We see the coast of Virginia from on board a
ship, visit the naval arsenal in greenwich, marvel at his description of the
great fire of Moscow, stroll through the parks of Bohemian spas and witness
the bombardment of Thionville. Burning torches illuminate the city
battlements, which are swarming with thousands of soldiers; the fiery
trajectories of cannonballs criss-cross the dark air; and before each report
from the guns, a dazzling glare lights up the towering clouds in the sky right
up to the blue zenith. At times the noise of the battle dies down for a few
seconds, and then one can hear the beating of drums, brass fanfares, and
orders bellowed out by voices strained to breaking point. Sentinelles, prenez
garde à vous! Within the overall context of the task of remembering, such
colourful accounts of military spectacles and large-scale operations form
what might be called the highlights of history which staggers blindly from
one disaster to the next. The chronicler, who was present at these events and
is once more recalling what he witnessed, inscribes his experiences, in an act
of self-mutilation, onto his own body. In the writing, he becomes the

martyred paradigm of the fate Providence has in store for us, and, though
still alive, is already in the tomb that his memoirs represent. From the very
outset, recapitulating the past can have only one end, the hour of
deliverance, which in the case of Chateaubriand came on the 4th of June
1848, the day on which death took the pen from his hand in a rez-de-
chaussée in the Rue du Bac. Combourg, Rennes, Brest, St Mal, Philadelphia,
New York, Boston, Brussels, the island of Jersey, London, Beccles and
Bungay, Milan, Verona, Venice, Rome, Naples, Vienna, Berlin, Potsdam,
Constantinople, Jerusalem, Neuchâtel, Lausanne, Basle, Ulm,
Waldmünchen, Teplitz, Karlsbad, Prague and Pilsen, Bamber, Würzburg and
Kaiserslautern, and time and again, Versailles, Chantilly, Fontainebleau,
Rambouillet, Vichy and Paris—these were just a few of the stations along a
journey which had now reached its end. At the beginning was a childhood in
Combourg, the account of which became indelibly imprinted on my mind
the very first time I read it. François-René was the youngest of ten children,
the first four of whom lived for no more than few months. The others were
christened Jean-Baptiste, Marie-Anne, Bénigne, Julie and Lucile. All four
girls were of a rare beauty, especially Julie and Lucile, both of whom were to
die in the turmoil of the Revolution. The Chateaubriand family lived in total
seclusion, with a number of servants, in the manor house at Combourg,
where the halls and passages were so vast and endless that an army of
crusaders might lose their way in them. Apart from a few neighbouring
noblemen such as the Marquis de Monlouet or Count Goyon-Beaufort, no
one ever visited the castle. Particularly in winter, Chateaubriand writes,
entire months would pass without any travellers or strangers knocking on the
gate of our fortress. Far greater than the sadness that hung over the
surrounding heath was the sadness that pervaded this lonely house. Those
who walked beneath its vaults felt much as one might when entering a
Carthusian monastery. The bell for dinner always rang at eight. After dinner,
we would sit for a few hours by the fire. The wind would be moaning in the
chimney, mother sighed on the sofa, and father, whom I never saw seated
except at table, paced up and down the enormous dining hall until it was
time for bed. He always wore a white woollen shaggy robe, and a cap of the
same material. Once he was at a certain distance from the centre of the hall,
which was lit only by the flickering fire in the hearth and a solitary candle,
he would begin to disappear into the shadows, and, when he was completely
immersed in the darkness, all one would hear was his footfall until he came

back like a ghost, in his peculiar attire. During the summer months, we
would sit outside on the steps in front of the house as it was getting dark.
Father would fire his shotguns at owls, and we children and mother would
look across at the black tree tops of the forest and up at the heavens where
the stars come out one by one. At the age of seventeen, Chateaubriand
writes, I left Combourg. One day my father pronounced that I would have to
make my own way henceforth. He had determined that I would join the
Régiment de Navarre and leave on the following day to travel to Cambrai
via Rennes. Here, he said, are a hundred Louis d'or. Do not squander them
and never dishonour your name. At the time of my departure he was already
suffering from the progressive paralysis which was finally to send him to his
grave. His left arm twitched constantly, and he had to keep it still with his
right hand. And that was how, after he had given me his old rapier, he stood
with me beside the cabriolet that was already waiting in the green courtyard.
We drove up the lane by the fishponds, and one more time I beheld the mill
stream shining and the swallows swooping across the reeds. Then I looked
ahead, at the broad terrain that was now opening up in front of me.
It took another hour to walk from Ilketshall St Margaret to Bungay, and a
further hour from Bungay over the marshes of the Waveney valley to the far
side of Ditchingham. Visible from a distance, nestling at the foot of the ridge
which drops down quite steeply to the watermeadows, was Ditchingham
Lodge, the isolated house where Charlotte Ives lived for many years after
her marriage to Admiral Sutton. As I approached, I could see the window
panes glinting in the sunlight. A woman in a white apron—what an unusual
sight, I thought—came out underneath the portico roof which was supported
by two columns, calling a black dog that was running about in the garden.
Apart from her there was not a soul in sight. I climbed the slope to the main
road and then walked across the stubble fields to Ditchingham churchyard,
some way outside the village, where the elder of Charlotte's two sons, who
went to seek his fortune in Bombay, is buried. The inscription on the stone
sarcophagus reads: At Rest Beneath, 3rd February 1850, Samuel Ives Sutton,
Eldest Son of Rear Admiral Sutton, Late Captain 1st Battalion 60th Rifles,
Major by Brevét and Staff Officer of Pentioners. Next to Samuel Sutton's
grave stands another even more imposing monument, also built of slabs of
heavy stone and crowned by an urn. What struck me about this tomb were
the round holes on the upper edges of the four sides. They reminded me
somehow of the air-holes we used to make as children in the lids of the

boxes in which we kept the cockchafers we caught, with some leaves for
food. It was possible, I thought to myself, that the bereaved had had these
holes bored into the stone in the eventuality that the dear departed in her
sepulchre should wish once more
to breathe the air. The name of the lady who had been cared for in this
manner was Sarah Camell, who died on the 26th of October 1799. As the
wife of the Ditchingham doctor, she would have been acquainted with the
Ives family, and it is probable that Charlotte, together with her parents, was
present at the funeral and perhaps even played a pavane on the pianoforte at
the Camells' home after the service. The higher sentiments which were
cultivated at the time in the circles in which Sarah and Charlotte moved are
preserved in the elegant words of the epitaph which Dr Camell, who
survived his wife by nearly forty years, had engraved on the south-facing
side of the pale grey tomb:
Firm in the principles and constant
in the practice of religion
Her life displayed the peace of virtue
Her modest sense, Her unobtrusive elegance

of mind and manners,
Her sincerity and benevolence of heart
Secured esteem, conciliated affection,
Inspired confidence and diffused happiness.
Ditchingham churchyard was the very last stop on my walk through the
county of Suffolk. The afternoon was already drawing to a close, and so I
decided to return to the main road and continue a short way in the direction
of Norwich, to the Mermaid in Hedenham, where the bar would be opening
soon. I would be able to phone home from there to be picked up. The route I
had to take led me past Ditchingham Hall, a house built around 1700 in
beautiful mauve-coloured brick, the windows of which are fitted with dark
green shutters. It was situated well off the main road above a serpentine lake,
and encompassed on all sides by extensive parkland. Later, while I was
waiting for Clara in the Mermaid, it occurred to me that Ditchingham Park
must have been laid out around the time when Chateaubriand was in Suffolk.
Estates of this kind, which enabled the ruling elite to imagine themselves
surrounded by boundless lands where nothing offended the eye, did not
become fashionable until the second half of the eighteenth century. Planning
and executing the work necessary for an embarkment could take two or three
decades. In order to complete such a project it was usually necessary to buy
parcels of land and add them to the existing estate, and roads, tracks,
individual farmsteads, sometimes even entire villages had to be moved, as
the object was to enjoy an uninterrupted view from the house over a natural
expanse innocent of any human presence. It was for the same reason that
fences were replaced with broad, grass-covered ha-has, which were dug out
at a cost of many thousands of working hours. Naturally, such an
undertaking, with its considerable impact not only on the landscape, but also
on the life of the local communities, could not always be accomplished
without controversy. At the period in question, an ancestor of Earl Ferrers,
the present owner of Ditchingham Hall, having become embroiled in a
confrontation with one of his estate managers, dispatched him with his gun,
for which deed he was in due course sentenced to death by his peers in the
House of Lords, and hanged publicly in London by a silken rope. —The
least costly aspect of laying out a landscaped park was planting trees as
specimens or in small groups, even if it was not seldom preceded by the
felling of tracts of woodland and the burning-off of unsightly thickets and
scrub that did not comply with the overall concept. Nowadays, given that

only a third of the trees planted at the time are still standing in most parks,
and that more are dying each year of old age and many other causes, we will
soon be able to envisage once more the Torricelli-like emptiness in which
the great country seats stood in the late eighteenth century. Chateaubriand
also later made a modest attempt to realize the ideal of nature projected into
that emptiness. When he returned in 1807 from his long journey to
Constantinople and Jerusalem, he bought a summer house that lay hidden
among wooded hills in the Vallée aux Loups, not far from the town of
Aulnay. It is there that he begins to write his memoirs, on the first pages of
which he speaks of the trees he has planted and tended with his own hands.
Now, he says, they are still so small that I provide them with shade whenever
I step between them and the sun. But one day, when they have grown, they
will give shade to me, and look after me in my old age much as I looked
after them in their youth. I feel a bond unites me with these trees; I write
sonnets, elegies and odes to them; they are like children, I know them all by
name, and my only desire is that I should end my days amongst them. —
This picture was taken at

Ditchingham about ten years ago, on a Saturday afternoon when the
manor house was open to the public in aid of charity. The Lebanese cedar
which I am leaning against, unaware still of the woeful events that were to
come, is one of the trees that were planted when the park was laid out, and
most of which, as I have said, have already disappeared. Since the mid-
Seventies there has been an ever more rapid decline in the numbers of trees,
with heavy losses, above all amongst the species most common in England.
Indeed, one tree has become well nigh extinct: Dutch elm disease spread
from the south coast into Norfolk around 1975, and within the space of just
two or three summers there were no elms left alive in the vicinity. The six
elm trees which had shaded the pond in our garden withered away in June
1978, just a few weeks after they unfolded their marvellous light green
foliage for the last time. The virus spread through the root systems of entire
avenues with unbelievable speed, causing capillaries to tighten and leading
to the trees' dying of thirst. Even solitary trees were located with infallible
accuracy by the airborne beetles which spread the disease. One of the most
perfect trees I have ever seen was an almost two hundred-year-old elm that
stood on its own in a field not far from our house. About one hundred feet
tall, it filled an immense space. I recall that, after most of the elms in the
area had succumbed, its countless, somewhat asymmetrical, finely serrated
leaves would sway in the breeze as if the scourge which had obliterated its
entire kind would pass it by without a trace; and I also recall that a bare
fortnight later all these apparently invincible leaves were brown and curled
up, and dust before the autumn came. It was then also that I noticed that the
crowns of ash trees were becoming sparse, and the foliage of oaks was
thinning and displaying strange mutations. At the same time, the trees
themselves were producing leaves from hard old wood, and by mid-summer
they were dropping masses of rock-hard, deformed acorns that were covered
with a sticky substance. The beech trees, which until then had remained in
good shape, were affected by several long droughts. The leaves were only
half their usual size, and almost all the beechnuts were empty. One after the
other, the poplars on the meadow died. Some of the dead

trunks are still standing, while others lie broken and bleached in the
grass. Finally, in the autumn of 1987, a hurricane such as no one had ever
experienced before passed over the land. According to official estimates over
fourteen million mature hard-leaf trees fell victim to it, not to mention the
damage to conifer plantations and bushes. That was on the night of the 16th
of October. Without warning, the storm came up out of the Bay of Biscay,
moved along the French west coast, crossed the English Channel and swept
over the south-east part of the island out into the North Sea. I woke at about
three in the morning, less as a result of the thunderous roar than because of
the curious warmth and the increasing air pressure in my bedroom. In
contrast with other equinoctial gales which I have experienced here, this one
came not in driving gusts but with an unrelenting and, it seemed, ever more
powerful force. I stood at the window and looked through the glass, which
was strained almost to breaking point, down towards the end of the garden,
where the crowns of the large trees in the neighbouring bishop's park were
bent and streaming like aquatic plants in a deep current. White clouds raced
across in the darkness, and again and again the sky was lit up by a terrible
flickering which, I later discovered, was caused by power lines touching
each other. At some point I must have turned away for a while. At all events,
I still remember that I did not believe my eyes when I looked out again and
saw that where the currents of air had shortly beforehand been pouring
through the black mass of trees, there was now just the paleness of the empty

horizon. It seemed as if someone had pulled a curtain to one side to reveal a
formless scene that bordered upon the underworld. And at the very moment
that I registered the unaccustomed brightness of the night over the park, I
knew that everything down there had been destroyed. And yet I hoped that
the ghastly emptiness could be explained by some other means, for in the
mounting din of the storm I had heard none of the crashing sounds that go
with the felling of timber. It was not until later that I realized that the trees,
held to the last by their root systems, toppled only gradually, and because
they were forced down so slowly their crowns, which were entangled with
each other, did not shatter but remained virtually undamaged. In this way,
entire tracts of woodland were pressed down flat as if they had been
cornfields. In the first light of dawn, when the storm had begun to abate, I
ventured out into the garden. For a long time I stood choked with emotion
amidst the devastation. It was like being in a kind of wind tunnel, so strong
was the suction created by the onrushing air, which was far too warm for the
time of year. The ancient trees on either side of the path leading along the
edge of the park were all lying on the ground as if in a swoon, and beneath
the huge oaks, ash and plane trees, beeches and limes lay the torn and
mangled shrubs that had grown in their shade, thujas and yews, hazel and
laurel bushes, holly and rhododendrons. With pulsating radiance the sun rose
over the horizon. The gusts continued for a while, and then it was suddenly
quiet. Nothing moved, apart from the birds which had lived in the bushes
and trees and which were now flitting about amongst the branches that had
remained green well into the autumn that year. I do not know how I got
through the first day after the storm, but do recall that during the night,
doubting what I had seen with my own eyes, I walked once more through the
park. As there were power cuts throughout the whole region, everything was
in deep darkness. There was no glare from streetlights or houses to dull the
sky. But the stars had come out, in a display so resplendent as I had seen
only over the Alps when I was a child, or over the desert in my dreams.
From the extreme north right down to the south where the view had before
been blocked by trees, the sparkling constellations were spread out, the
Plough, the tail of Draco, the triangle of Taurus, the Pleiades, Pegasus, the
Swan and the Dolphin. Unchanged and, as it seemed to me, more
magnificent than ever before, they revolved above me. The silence of that
brilliant night after the storm was followed by the revving of chainsaws
during the winter months. It took four or five labourers until March to cut up

the branches, burn the rubbish, and haul away the trunks. An excavator dug
large holes in which stumps and roots, some of them the size of a small
house, were buried. Now, in the truest sense of the word, everything was
turned upside down. The forest floor, which in the spring of last year had
still been carpeted with snowdrops, violets and wood anemones, ferns and
cushions of moss, was now covered by a layer of barren clay. All that grew
in the hard-baked earth were tufts of swamp grass, the seeds of which had
laid in the depths for goodness knew how long. The rays of the sun, with
nothing left to impede them, destroyed all the shade-loving plants so that it
seemed as if we were living on the edge of an infertile plain. Where a short
while ago the dawn chorus had at times reached such a pitch that we had to
close the bedroom windows, where larks had risen on the morning air above
the fields and where, in the evenings, we occasionally even heard a
nightingale in the thicket, its pure and penetrating song punctuated by
theatrical silences, there was now not a living sound.
10
Amongst the miscellaneous papers left by Sir Thomas Browne treating
such diverse subjects as practical and ornamental horticulture, the urns found
at Brampton in Norfolk, the making of artificial hills and burrows, the
several plants mentioned in Scripture, the Saxon tongue, the
pronouncements of the Oracle at Delphos, the fishes eaten by our Saviour,
the behaviour of insects, hawks and falconry, and a case of boulimia
cetenaria which occurred in Yarmouth, amongst these and various other
tracts, there is also to be found a catalogue of remarkable books,
listing pictures, antiquities and sundry singular items that may have
formed part of a collection put together by Browne but were more likely
products of his imagination, the inventory of a treasure house that existed
purely in his head and to which there is no access except through the letter
son the page. In a short prefatory note to an unknown reader, Browne
compares this "Musaeum Clausum" with the Musaeum Aldrovandi, the

Musaeum Calceolarianum; the Casa Abbellita at Loretto, and the
repositories of the Emperor Rudolf at Prague and Vienna, all of them famed
collections of his day. Among the rare books and documents in Browne's
"Musaeum" are King Solomon's treatise on the shadow cast by our thoughts,
de Umbris Idearum, previously reported to have been in the library of the
Duke of Bavaria; a collection of Hebrew epistles, which passed between the
two most learned women of the seventeenth century, Molinea of Sedan and
Maria Churman of Utrecht; and "a Sub Marine Herbal" describing in
exhaustive detail all that grows on the mountain ranges and in the valleys
under the sea, the many kinds of algae, corals and water ferns never seen by
man, sargassum borne along by tropical currents, as well as whole islands of
plants drifting from continent to continent in the path of the trade winds.
Browne's imaginary library further includes a fragment of an account by the
ancient traveller Pytheas of Marseilles, referred to in Strabo, according to
which all the air beyond Thule is thick, condensed and gellied, looking just
like sea lungs, and moreover a poem by Ovidius Naso, hitherto supposed
lost, written in the Getick language during his exile at Tomi and found wrapt
up in wax at Sabaria, on the frontiers of Hungary, where there remains a
tradition that he died in his return towards Rome from Tomi, either after his
pardon or the death of Augustus. Apart from all manner of other curiosities,
Browne's museum has in it a drawing in chalk of the great fair of Almachara
in Arabia, which is held at night to avoid the great heat of the sun; a painting
of the famous battle fought between the Romands and the Jaziges on the
frozen Danube; a dream image showing a prairie or sea meadow at the
bottom of the Mediterranean, off the coast of Provence; Solyman the
Magnificent on horseback at the siege of Vienna, and behind him a whole
city of snow-white tents extending as far as the horizon; a seascape with
floating icebergs upon which sit walruses, bears, foxes and a variety of rare
fowls; and a number of pieces delineating the worst inhumanities in tortures
for the benefit of the observer: the scaphismus of the Persians, the living
truncation of the Turks, the hanging sport at the feasts of the Thracians, the
exact method of flaying men alive, beginning between the shoulders,
according to the meticulous description of Thomas Minadoi. Occupying
some undefined position between the natural and the unnatural is also a fair
English lady drawn al negro, or in the AEthiopian hue excelling the original
white beauty, with the motto: "Sed quandam volo nocte nigriorem". In
addition to such astonishing writings and artworks, the Musaeum Clausum

also contains medals and coins; a precious stone from a vulture's head; a neat
crucifix made out of the crossbone of a frog's head; ostrich and humming-
bird eggs; bright-hued parakeet feathers; spirits and salt of Sargasso
excellent against the scurvy; extract of cachundè or liberns employed in the
East Indies against melancholy; and a glass of spirits made of aethereal salt,
hermetically sealed up, of so volatile a nature that it will not endure daylight,
and therefore shown only in winter, or by the light of a carbuncle, or
Bononian stone. All of these things are recorded by Browne the doctor and
naturalist in his register of marvels, all of these and many more that I do not
propose to list in this place, excepting perhaps the bamboo cane in which, at
the time of the Byzantine Emperor Justinianus, two Persian friars who had
long been in China to discover the secrets of sericulture had brought the first
eggs of the silkworm over the Empire's borders into the Western world.
The silkworm moth, Bombyx mori, which lives in white-fruited mulberry
trees is a member of the Bombycidae or spinners, a subspecies of the
Lepidoptera which, together with the Saturnidae, includes some of the most
beautiful of all moths—the Kentish Glory, Endromis versilcolor, the Great
Peacock, Bombyx atlas, the Large Ermine, Harpyia vinula and the Emperor
moth, Saturnia pavonia. The fully developed silkworm moth, however, is an
unprepossessing creature measuring a mere one and a half

inches across and an inch lengthways. Its wings are ashen white with
pale brown stripes and a crescent-shaped, often barely perceptible mark. The
only purpose it has is to propagate. The male dies soon after mating. The
female lays three to five hundred eggs over the course of several days, and
then also dies. The silkworms that hatch from the eggs, an encyclopaedia
dating from 1844 informs me, are enrobed in a black, velvety fur when they
enter this world. During their short lives, which last only six or seven weeks,
they are overcome by sleep on four occasions and, after shedding their old
skin, emerge from each one re-made, always whiter, smoother and larger,

becoming more beautiful, and finally almost completely transparent. A few
days after the last sloughing one can notice a redness on the throat, which
heralds the onset of metamorphosis. The caterpillar now stops eating, runs
about restlessly, and, seeking to leave the low earth behind, strives to gain
greater heights, until it has found the right place and can start to weave its
cell from the resinous juices produced in its insides. If one slits open a
caterpillar that has been killed with ethyl alcohol along the length of its back,
one sees a cluster of intertwined small tubes that resemble intestines. They
end by the mouth, in two very fine orifices, through which the juices pour
forth. During its first day of work, the caterpillar spins an extensive,
disorderly, fragmented web which is used to secure the cocoon. And then,
constantly moving its head back and forth and reeling out an uninterrupted
thread almost a thousand yards long, it constructs the actual egg-shaped
casing around itself. In this shell, which admits neither air not moisture, the
caterpillar changes into a nympth by sloughing off its skin for one last time.
It remains in this state for two to three weeks in all, until the butterfly
described above emerges. —The Silkworm's native habitat seems to include
all those Asian countries where the white mulberry trees grow in the wild.
There it lived in the open, left to its open devices, until man, having
discovered its usefulness, was prompted to foster it. Chinese history notes
that, two thousand and seven hundred years before the beginning of the
Christian calendar, Huang Ti, the Emperor of the Earth who reigned for
more than a century and taught his subjects how to build wagons, ships and
grain mills, persuaded his first wife, Hsi-ling-shi, to attend to the silkworms,
to devise trials for their employment, and increase, by means of this her
especial task, the happiness of the people. Hsi-ling-shi thereupon took the
worms from the trees in the palace garden and into her own care, in the
imperial apartments, where, protected from their natural enemies and the
unpredictable and often inclement spring weather, they thrived so well that
this marked the beginning of what was later to be developed into domestic
silkworm culture. Together with the unravelling of the cocoons and the
weaving and embroidering of the materials, this was to become the principal
occupation of all the succeeding empresses, and passed from their hands into
those of the entire female sex. Promoted in every conceivable way by those
in authority, the rearing of silkworms and the production of silk had, in the
course of a few generations, taken such an upturn that the name of China
came to be synonymous with an inexhaustible wealth of silk. Chinese

merchants traversed the length and breadth of Asia with their silk-laden
caravans, taking some two hundred and forty days to travel from the Chinese
sea to the coast of Mediterranean. Because of this enormous distance, and
also because of the horrific punishments awaiting those who disseminated
the knowledge of sericulture beyond the borders of the Empire, the
fabrication of silk was restricted to China for thousands of years, until the
two aforementioned friars with their hollowed-out walking staffs arrived in
Byzantium. After the raising of silkworms had become established at the
Greek court and on the Aegean islands, it took a further millennium for this
elaborate form of husbandry to pass via Sicily and Naples to Piedmont,
Savoy and Lambardy, where Genoa and Milan soon flourished as the
European centres of silk cultivation. Within half a century, the art of silk-
making had reached France from northern Italy, thanks to Olivier de Serres,
who is still considered the father of French agriculture. His manual for
landowners, published in 1600 under the title Théatre d'agriculture et
mesnage de Champs, which went through thirteen printings in a very short
space of time, made such a deep impression on Henry IV that he summoned
him to Paris, offering him copious honours and favours, to be his first
counsellor, on a par with Sully, his prime minister and minister of finance.
De Serres, who was reluctant to surrender the management of his own
estates to someone else, demanded one favour as a condition for accepting
the office he had been offered: that the cultivation of silk should be
introduced in France, and that to that end the native trees in the royal
gardens throughout the country be uprooted and mulberry trees planted in
their stead. The king was enthralled by de Serres' plan, but before it could be
put into practice he had to overcome the resistance of Sully, whom he
normally held in high esteem and who opposed the idea of producing silk,
either because he genuinely considered it the height of folly or because he
saw in de Serres a rival in the ascendant.
The arguments which Maximilien de Béthune, Duc de Sully, brought to
bear with his sovereign are summed up in the sixteenth volume of his
memoirs, a fine edition of which, printed in 1788 by

F. J. Desoer in Liège, à la Croix d'or, I acquired for a few shillings many
years ago at an auction in the small country town of Aylsham, north of
Norwich. Sully opened his case by maintaining that the French climate was
unsuited to producing silk. The spring, so Sully asserted, began too late, and
even when it did arrive, humidity, rising out of the fields or descending on
them, tended to be too high. This unfavourable circumstance alone, which
nothing could countervail, was extremely detrimental both to the silkworms,
which could only with great difficulty be persuaded to hatch, and to the
mulberry trees, which needed mild air above all else, especially at that time
of year when they were coming into leaf, if they were to flourish. Quite apart
from this basic consideration, Sully continued, one had to bear in mind that
rural life in France allowed nobody any superfluous leisure, with the
possible exception of the habitually idle; and therefore, if one really were to
introduce silk cultivation on a large scale, one would have to prevent rural

labourers from going about their accustomed daily work and employ them in
what was in every respect a dubious enterprise. Sully conceded that country
folk would in all likelihood be easily persuaded to make such a change in
their basic way of life, for who would not give up labouring on the land for a
venture like silk cultivation, which required no real effort at all? And therein
lay the most compelling reason against a general adoption of sericulture in
France, urged Sully in a deft turn of phrase directed at the soldier king: the
danger that the rural population, from whom the best musketeers and
cavalrymen had always been recruited, would lose their innate vigour by
being employed on work more fitting for women's and children's hands. As a
result, it would soon no longer be possible to ensure that among the next
generations there would be sufficient numbers of men capable of practising
the martial arts. And not only would the manufacturing of silk lead to
degeneration among the country folk, Sully continued, but it would also
promote the insidious corruption of the urban classes through luxurious
living and all that went with it—laziness, effeminacy, lechery and
extravagance. Far too much was already being lavished in France on
ornamental gardens and ostentatious palaces, on the most extravagant
furnishings and décor, gold ornaments and porcelain, carriages and
cabriolets, galas and festivities, liqueurs and perfumes, and even, Sully
noted, on public offices sold at exorbitant prices, and marriageable ladies
from the upper classes, who were auctioned off to the highest bidder. Further
to encourage the general decline in moral standards by introducing silk
cultivation throughout the kingdom was something Sully must advise his
King against, and, par contre, he wished to suggest that one might now like
to remember the virtues of those who sustained themselves in the most
modest and frugal way. However, the prime minister's objections were
ignored, and silk cultivation became established in France within a decade,
not least because the Edict of Nantes, which was proclaimed in 1598,
safeguarded at least a degree of tolerance to the Huguenots, who until that
time had been subject to sever persecution, thereby making it possible for
the very people who had played a prominent part in introducing silk
cultivation to remain in their French fatherland. —Inspired by the French
example, the adoption of silk cultivation by royal patronage occurred at
almost the same time in England. On the site where Buckingham Palace now
stands, James I had a mulberry garden of several acres laid out, and at
Theobald's, his favourite country seat in Essex, he maintained his own silk

house for the rearing of silkworms. James was so greatly interested in these
industrious creatures that he would spend hour after hour studying their
habits and needs, and whenever he undertook journeys about his kingdom he
always had with him a large casket full of royal silkworms, the keeping of
which was entrusted to a specially appointed groom of the chamber. James
had well over a hundred thousand mulberry trees planted in the drier
counties of eastern England, and in this and other ways he laid the
foundations for an important branch of industry which entered its heyday at
the beginning of the eighteenth century, when, following the revocation of
the Edict of Nantes by Louis XIV, more than fifty thousand Huguenots fled
to England, many of whom, experienced in breeding silkworms and in the
fabrication of silk stuffs—craftsmen and merchant families such as the
Lefèvres and the Tillettes, the De Hagues, the Martineaus and the
Columbines—settled in Norwich, at that time the second largest city in
England, where since the early sixteenth century there had been a colony of
about five thousand immigrant Flemish and Walloon weavers. By 1750, a
bare two generations later, the Huguenot master weavers of Norwich had
risen to become the wealthiest, most influential and cultivated class of
entrepreneurs in the entire kingdom. In their factories and those of their
suppliers there was the greatest imaginable commotion, day in, day out, and
it is said in a history of silk manufacture in England that a traveller
approaching Norwich under the black sky of a winter night would be amazed
by the glare over the city, caused by light coming from the windows of the
workshops, still busy at this late hour. Increase of light and increase of
labour have always gone hand in hand. If today, when our gaze is no longer
able to penetrate the pale reflected glow over the city and its environs, we
think back to the eighteenth century, it hardly seems possible that even then,
before the Industrial Age, a great number of people, at least in some places,
spent their lives with their wretched bodies strapped to looms made of
wooden frames and rails, hung with weights, and reminiscent of instruments
of torture or cages. It was a

peculiar symbiosis which, perhaps because of its relatively primitive
character, makes more apparent than any later form of factory work that we
are able to maintain ourselves on this earth only by being harnessed to the
machines we have invented. That weavers in particular, together with
scholars and writers with whom they had much in common, tended to suffer
from melancholy and all the evils associated with it, is understandable given
the nature of their work, which forced them to sit bent over, day after day,
straining to keep their eye on the complex patterns they created. It is difficult
to imagine the depths of despair into which those can be driven who, even

after the end of the working day, are engrossed in their intricate designs and
who are pursued, into their dreams, by the feeling that they have got hold of
the wrong thread. On the other hand, when we consider the weavers' mental
illnesses we should also bear in mind that many of the materials produced in
the factories of Norwich in the decades before the Industrial Revolution
began—silk brocades and watered tabinets, stains and satinettes, camblets
and cheveretts, prunelles, callimancoes and florentines, diamantines and
grenadines, blondines, bombazines, belle-isles and martiniques—were of a
truly fabulous variety, and of an iridescent, quite indescribable beauty as if
they had been produced by Nature itself, like the plumage of birds. —That,
at any rate, is what I think when I look at the marvellous strips of colour in
the pattern books, the edges and gaps filled with mysterious figures and
symbols, that are kept in the small museum of Strangers Hall, which was
once the town house of just such a family of silk weavers who had been
exiled from France.

Until the decline of the Norwich manufactories towards the end of the
eighteenth century, these catalogues of samples, the pages of which seem to
me to be leaves from the only true book which none of our textual and
pictorial works can even begin to rival, were to be found in the offices of
importers throughout Europe, from Riga to Rotterdam and from St
Petersburg to Seville. And the materials themselves were sent from Norwich
to the trade fairs at Copenhagen, Leipzig and Zurich, and from there to the
warehouses of wholesalers and retailers, and some half-silk wedding shawl
might even reach Isny, Weingarten or Wangen in the pannier on a Jewish
pedlar's back.
The greatest efforts were made to promote the cultivation of silk, even in
the rather backward Germany of the time, where pigs were still being driven
across the Schlossplatz in many a principal town. In Prussia, Frederick the
Great with the help of French immigrants had attempted to bring a state silk
industry into being, by ordering mulberry plantations to be established, by
distributing silkworms free of charge, and by offering considerable rewards
to anyone who would take up silk cultivation. In 1774, about seven thousand
pounds of pure silk were produced in the provinces of Magdeburg,
Halberstadt, Brandenburg and Pomerania alone. The same happened in
Saxony, the county of Hanau, in Württemberg, Ansbach and Bayreuth, on
the Prince of Liechtenstein's estates in Austria, and in the Rhineland-
Palatinate at the bidding of Karl Theodor who, when the succession of the
duchy of Bavaria passed to him in 1777, at once set up a silk head office in
Munich. Forthwith, extensive mulberry gardens were established in Freising,
Egelkofen, Landshut, Burghausen, Straubing and in the state capital itself.
The trees were planted along paths, ramparts and roads, silk houses and
filatories were built, factories were set up and a host of officials employed.
Despite being promoted with such vigour in Bavaria and other German
principalities, silk manufacturing ground to a halt even before it had properly
begun. The mulberry gardens disappeared, the trees were felled for
firewood, the officials were pensioned off, and the steaming vats, filature
machines and rearing frames were broken up, sold or carried off. On the 1st
of April 1822, the Director of the Royal Gardens informed the General
Committee of the Agricultural Association that an old master dyer by the
name of Seybolt, who, according to a file in the Munich state library was
employed for nine years at a salary of three hundred and fifty florins in the
silk factory run by the previous government as Keeper of the Silkworms and

Superintendent of Carding and Filature, had told the said director that in his
time many thousands of mulberry trees had been planted and numbered, on
orders from on high, throughout the city, and that these trees had grown to an
astounding size affording much excellent provender for the grubs. Of those
trees, Seybolt said, only two remained, one in the garden of von
Utzschneider's textile factory by the Einlass Gate, and the other, as far as he
knew, in the garden of the former Augustinian monastery, where the monks
had made some modest attempts at silk farming. The main reason why silk
husbandry failed so soon after it had been introduced was not so much that
mercantile calculations were adrift, but rather the despotic manner in which
German rulers attempted to force it along, whatever the cost. From a
memorandum from Count von Reigersberg, the Bavarian ambassador to
Karlsruhe, referring to reports submitted by a certain Herr Kall, who was the
only plantation inspector still employed in sericulture at Schwetzingen, it
emerges that in the Rhineland-Palatinate, where silk farming had been
conducted on the largest scale, every subject, official, citizen and
householder who owned more than an acre of land was obliged within a
given period to be growing six trees per acre, regardless of his circumstances
or the use to which he had hitherto devoted his fields. Whosoever had been
granted arms-bearing, brewing or baking rights had to plant one tree, every
newly accredited citizen had to plant two, all village greens, town squares,
streets, embankments, boundary ditches, even churchyards had to be planted,
so that subjects were compelled to buy a hundred thousand trees from the
principality's tree nurseries every year. Planting and tending the mulberry
trees was imposed as a personal duty on the twelve youngest citizens in
every community. In addition, there were the costs involved in employing
twenty-nine officials responsible for silk cultivation, as well as the special
supervisors in each individual town or village, who were exempted from
socage service, granted certain liberties, and paid forty-five crowns a day.
Part of the costs which arose from this decree had to be met from communal
funds, and part was levied through taxation. Such a burden, which was by no
means justified by the true economic value of the silk industry, together with
the extreme financial and physical penalties for transgressing against the silk
laws, succeeded in making something that had been viewed as a promising
venture hateful to the people; it led to endless petitions, applications for
concessions, litigation and court cases, which for years overwhelmed the
higher judicial and administrative authorities with paperwork until, upon the

death of Karl Theodor, the Elector Max Joseph cut the ground from under
this rampant absurdity by revoking all the compulsory measures once and
for all.
The reports made to the Imperial Royal Counsellor of War in Vienna in
1811, at about the same time as silk cultivation in Germany collapsed, by the
border regiments to whom research into outdoor silk cultivation had been
entrusted, were also anything but encouraging. memoranda that were almost
identical in content arrived, drawn up by Colonels Michalevics and
Hordinsky of the Wallachian-Illyrian regiment in Caransebes and the 12th
German Banat regiment in Pancsova, to the effect that, after initial hopes of
being able to nurture the broods in their care, they had been adversely
affected by storms and cloudbursts, and in some cases, in Glogau,
Perlasvaroch and Isbitie, where they had sloughed their skins for the first
time, and in Homolitz and Oppowa, where they had done so a second time,
they had been knocked off the foliage by hailstones and perished. Moreover,
the memoranda continued, the caterpillars were at the mercy of numerous
enemies, such as sparrows and starlings, which devoured them as soon as
they were set in the trees. Colonel Minitinovich of the Gradiskan regiment
complained of the worms' lack of appetite, of the changeable weather, of
gnats, wasps and flies, while Colonel Milletich of the 7th Brod border
regiment reported that, by the 12th of July, the few silkworms and evolving
papillons that had survived on the trees had been burned by the fierce heat of
that summer, or else, unable to graze on the now tough and leathery leaves,
had simply expired. Despite these setbacks, Bavarian Counsellor of State
Joseph von Hazzi undertook to advocate sericulture in his Lehrbuch des
Seidenbaus für Deutschland of 1826, avoiding, wherever possible, the errors
that had been made in the past and emphasizing instead its importance in the
formation of a national economy. Hazzi's work, which was conceived as a
complete educational programme, followed on from that published in Milan
in 1810 by Count Dandolo, Dell arte di governare i bachi da Setta, from
Bonafou's De l'education des vers à soie, Bolzano's Wegweiser zum
Seidenbau and Kettenbeil's Anleitung zur Behandlung des Maulbeerbaums
und Erziehung der Seidenraupe. If the German silk industry were to be
revived, wrote Hazzi, it was essential to recognize the mistakes that had been
made, which in his opinion had resulted from authoritarian management,
endeavours to create state monopolies, and an administrative system which
buried any entrepreneurial spirit under a quite risible pile of regulations. In

Hazzi's view, silk cultivation did not quire special buildings and institutes,
which would always be costly and would look like barracks or hospitals, but
instead, as was the case in Greece and Italy, it should be born out of nothing,
as it were, and be run as a minor pursuit in domestic rooms and chambers by
women and children, servants, the poor and the elderly, in short, by all who
were not at present in a position to earn money. Placing silk cultivation on a
popular footing in the way Hazzi recommended would not only lead to
incontestable economic advantages over other nations, it would also result in
the social improvement of the fair sex and all other members of the populace
who were unaccustomed to regular work. In addition, observing this
apparently insignificant insect, and how it develops in stages under man's
care and brings forth the softest and most delicate of tissues, would provide
an invaluable and fitting aid for the education of children. In Hazzi's
estimation, there could be no more convenient way of inculcating among the
lower classes the virtues of order and cleanliness, which were indispensable
to all communities, than the widespread cultivation of silk; indeed he would
expect, wrote Hazzi, that the breeding of silkworms in the homes of most
German families would produce a veritable moral transformation in the
nation. Hazzi then goes on to deal with various misconceptions and
prejudices connected with silk cultivation, such as that the best place to
hatch silkworms was in hotbeds or the bosoms of young girls, or that, once
they had hatched, one should heat up the stove on cool days, close the
shutters during thunderstorms, and hang bunches of wormwood in windows
to dispel harmful miasmas. It would be far more sensible, according to
Hazzi, to air the rooms daily and, if necessary, fumigate them at little
expense with chlorine gas produced by mixing sea salt, powdered
manganese and a little water. Jaundice, consumption and other diseases to
which the worms were susceptible could thus be easily avoided, and a
cottage industry altogether useful and profitable would be as good as assured
by the proliferation of this new knowledge through ever widening circles.
Counsellor Hazzi's vision of a nation united by sericulture and educating
itself toward higher ends went unheeded, doubtless because the previous
failures lay in the too recent past. However, after an interval of a hundred
years it was revived by the German fascists with that peculiar thoroughness
they brought to everything they touched, as I realized with some surprise
when, last summer, searching in the education office of the town I grew up
in for the short documentary about North Sea herring fisheries which had

been shown to us in primary school, I happened upon a film on German silk
cultivation, evidently made for the same series. In contrast to the dark,
almost midnight tonalities of the herring film, the film on sericulture was of
a truly dazzling brightness. Men and women in white coats, in whitewashed
rooms flooded with light, were busy at snow-white spinning frames, snow-
white sheets of paper, snow-white protective gauze, snow-white cocoons and
snow-white canvas mailing sacks. The whole film promised the best and
cleanest of all possible worlds, an impression that was confirmed when I
read the accompanying booklet, which was intended for our teachers. Citing
the Führer's pronouncement, at the 1936 party rally, that Germany must
become self-sufficient within four years in all the materials it lay in the
nation's power to produce itself, the author of the booklet observed that this
self-evidently included silk cultivation. Hence the Reich ministers of food
and agriculture, of labour, of forestry and of aviation had launched a
sericulture programme, inaugurating a new era of silk cultivation in
Germany. The Reich Association of Silkworm Breeders in Berlin, a
constituent group within the Reich Federation of German Breeders of Small
Animals, which in turn was affiliated to the Reich Agricultural Commission,

saw its task as increasing production in every existing workshop, advertising
silk cultivation in the press, in the cinema and on radio, establishing model
rearing units for educational purposes, organizing advisory bodies at local,
district and regional level to support all silk-growers, providing mulberry
trees, and planting them by the million on unutilized land, in residential
areas and cemeteries, by roadsides, on railway embankments and along the
Reich's autobahns. According to Professor Lange, the author of educational
pamphlet F213/1939, the significance of silk cultivation in Germany lay not
only in obviating the need to buy from abroad, and so easing the pressure on
foreign currency reserves, but also in the importance silk would have in the
dawning era of aerial warfare and hence in the formation of a self-sufficient
economy of national defence. For that reason, it was desirable that schools
should interest the youth of Germany in silk cultivation, although not under
compulsion, as in the days of Frederick the Great. Rather, the teaching staff
and pupils should be motivated to practise sericulture of their own accord.
Schools might do pioneering work in this sector, suggested Professor Lange.
Schoolyards might have mulberries planted along their perimeters, and
silkworms could be reared in the school buildings. After all, the Professor
added, quite apart from their indubitable utility value, silkworms afforded an
almost ideal object lesson for the classroom. Any number could be had for
virtually nothing, they were perfectly docile and needed neither cages nor
compounds, and they were suitable for a variety of experiments (weighing,
measuring and so forth) at every stage in their evolution. They could be used
to illustrate the structure and distinctive features of insect anatomy, insect
domestication, retrogressive mutations, and the essential measures which are
taken by breeders to monitor productivity and selection, including
extermination to preempt racial degeneration. —In the film, we see a silk-
worker receiving eggs despatched by the Central Reich Institute of
Sericulture in Celle, and depositing them in sterile trays. We see the
hatching, the feeding of the ravenous caterpillars, the cleaning out of the
frames, the spinning of the silken thread, and finally the killing,
accomplished in this case not by putting the cocoons out in the sun or in a
hot oven, as was often the practice in the past, but by suspending them over
a boiling cauldron. The cocoons, spread out on shallow baskets, have to be
kept in the rising steam for upwards of three hours, and when a batch is
done, it is the next one's turn, and so on until the entire killing business is
completed. Today, as I bring these notes to a conclusion, is the 13th of April

1995. it is Maundy Thursday, the feast day on which Christ's washing of the
disciples' feet is remembered, and also the feast day of Saints Agathon,
Carpus, Papylus and Hermengild. On this very day three hundred and
ninety-seven years ago, Henry IV promulgated the Edict of Nantes; Handel's
Messiah was first performed two hundred and fifty-three years ago, in
Dublin; Warren Hastings was appointed Governor-General of Bengal two
hundred and twenty-three years ago; the Anti-Semitic League was founded
in Prussia one hundred and thirteen years ago; and, seventy-four years ago,
the Amritsar massacre occurred, when General Dyer ordered his troops to
fire on a rebellious crowd of fifteen thousand that had gathered in
Jallianwala Bagh square, to set an example. Quite possibly some of the
victims were employed in silk cultivation, which was developing at that
time, on the simplest of foundations, in the Amritsar region and indeed
throughout India.
Fifty years ago to the day, British newspapers reported that the city of
Celle had been taken and that German forces were in headlong retreat from
the Red Army, which was advancing up the Danube valley. And finally,
Maundy Thursday, the 13th of April 1995, was also the day on which Clara's
father, shortly after being taken to hospital in Coburg, departed this life.
Now, as I write, and think once more of our history, which is but a long
account of calamities, it occurs to me that at one time the only acceptable

expression of profound grief, for ladies of the upper classes, was to wear
heavy robes of black silk taffeta or black crêpe de china. Thus at Queen
Victoria's funeral, for example, the Duchess of Teck allegedly made her
appearance in what contemporary fashion magazines described as a
breathtaking gown with billowing veils, all of black Mantua silk of which
the Norwich silk weavers Willett & Nephew, just before the firm closed
down for good, had created, uniquely for this occasion, and in order to
demonstrate their unsurpassed skills in the manufacture of mourning silks, a
length of some sixty paces. And Sir Thomas Browne, who was the son of a
silk merchant and may well have had an eye for these things, remarks in a
passage of the Pseudodoxia Epidemica that I can no longer find that in the
Holland of his time it was customary, in a home where there had been a
death, to drape black mourning ribbons over all the mirrors and all canvasses
depicting landscapes or people or the fruits of the field, so that the soul, as it
left the body, would not be distracted on its final journey, either by a
reflection of itself or by a last glimpse of the land now being lost forever.

Table of Contents
1. In hospital—Obituary—Odyssey of Thomas Browne's skull—
Anatomy lecture—Levitation—Quincunx—Fabled
2. The diesel train—Morton Peto's palace—Visiting Somerleyton—
The Cities of Germany in flames—The de
3. Fishermen on the beach—The natural history of the herring—
George Wyndham Le Strange—A great herd
4. The Battle of Sole Bay—Nightfall—Station Road in The Hague—
Mauritshuis—Scheveningen—The tomb of S
5. Conrad and Casement—The Boy Teodor—Exile in Volgda—
Nowofastów—Death and interment of Apollo Korze
6. The bridge over the Blyth—The Chinese court train—The Taiping
rebellion and the opening of China—
7. Dunwich heath—Marsh Acres, Middleton—A Berlin childhood—
Exile in England—Dreams, elective affinit
8. A conversation about sugar—Boulge Park—The FitzGeralds—The
Bredfield nursery—Edward FitzGerald's
9. The Temple of Jerusalem—Charlotte Ives and the Vicomte de
Chateaubriand—Memoirs from beyond the g
10. Thomas Browne's Museum Clausum—The silkworm moth,
Bombyx mori—Origins and spread of sericulture—