OceanofPDF.com

Praise for Campo Santo
OceanofPDF.com

“Brilliant … bursting with flavors … at once precise and
luscious … [Campo Santo] reminds us what a significant loss [Sebald’s]
early passing was to the literary world.… [The] travel essays on Corsica are
absolute gems.… [D]iscussions of Nabokov, Kafka, Günter Grass, and the
schizophrenic poet Herbeck … provide a satisfaction as rare as a perfect
meal.”
—The Boston Globe
“[A] darkly companionable voice … This magnificent writer may have left
abruptly, but his own shadow lingers.”
—The New York Times Book Review
“Max Sebald has begun to be widely recognized as one of the most
important prose writers of the past 20 years.”
—The Economist
“Nuanced … multidimensional … Ruminative and elegiac, the late W. G.
Sebald wove threads of timelessness connecting past and present.”
—The Dallas Morning News
“All of Sebald’s books are about journeys … [and he] is an entertaining
guide.”
—The New York Review of Books
“Sebald exemplified the best kind of cosmopolitan literary intelligence—
humane, digressive, deeply erudite, unassuming and tinged with
melancholy.… His themes are … marked by the seriousness of middle age.
Yet Sebald’s spirit remains that of a philosophical gypsy.”
—The Washington Post Book World

“[Sebald] is prone to visions, hallucinations, and premonitions, usually
induced by a confrontation with a personal memory or a historical site.
These are the source of the subdued horror of much of Sebald’s work, and
also of its very dry humor.… Four fragments of a literary work about a trip
to Corsica … have the virtues of Sebald’s best work, with its odd blend of
fiction, memoir, history, and travelogue.”
—The New York Sun
“Stunning … intensely observant, erudite, lyrical, and
provocative … Detailed descriptions of Sebald’s wanderings on [Corsica]
turn into musings of astonishing beauty and insight into history,
environmental decimation, and our feelings about death. These arresting
meditations, brilliant syntheses of thought and feeling, are followed by
masterful, passionate critical essays expressing Sebald’s belief in the healing
power of literature and our obligation to remember the past and respect life
in all its wonders and mysteries
—Booklist
“[A] masterful translation … Sebald was a beautiful and intelligent writer.”
—Publishers Weekly
“If you thought literary modernism was dead, guess again. The spirit of such
masters as Kafka and Borges lives on in the [work] of W. G. Sebald.”
—The Wall Street Journal
OceanofPDF.com

OceanofPDF.com

2006 Modern Library Trade Paperback Edition
Translation copyright © 2005 by Anthea Bell
All rights reserved.
Published in the United States by Modern Library, an imprint of The
Random House Publishing Group, a division of Random House, Inc., New
York.
MODERN LIBRARY and the TORCHBEARER Design are registered trademarks
of Random House, Inc.
This edition was published in hardcover in the United States by Random
House, an imprint of The Random House Publishing Group, a division of
Random House, Inc., in 2005.
Published in the United Kingdom by Hamish Hamilton, a publishing
division of Penguin Books Ltd., in 2005.
This work was originally published in German by Carl Hanser Verlag,
München, in 2003. Copyright © 2003 by The Estate of W. G. Sebald.
Copyright © 2003 Carl Hanser München Wien. This English language
translation by Anthea Bell is published here by arrangement with Hamish
Hamilton, a publishing division of Penguin Books Ltd.
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS CATALOGING-IN-PUBLICATION DATA
Sebald, Winfried Georg

[Campo Santo. English]
Campo Santo/W. G. Sebald;
translated by Anthea Bell.—1st ed.
p. cm.
eISBN: 978-0-307-43303-9
I. Bell, Anthea. II. Title.
PT2681.E18C36 2005
834′.914—dc22 2004050311
www.modernlibrary.com
v3.1
OceanofPDF.com

CONTENTS
OceanofPDF.com

Cover
Title Page
Copyright
Editorial Note
PROSE
A Little Excursion to Ajaccio
Campo Santo
The Alps in the Sea
La cour de l’ancienne école
ESSAYS
Strangeness, Integration, and Crisis:
On Peter Handke’s Play Kaspar
Between History and Natural History:
On the Literary Description of Total Destruction
Constructs of Mourning: Günter Grass and Wolfgang Hildesheimer
Des Häschens Kind, der kleine Has
(The Little Hare, Child of the Hare):
On the Poet Ernst Herbeck’s Totem Animal
To the Brothel by Way of Switzerland:
On Kafka’s Travel Diaries
Dream Textures: A Brief Note on Nabokov
Kafka Goes to the Movies
Scomber scombrus, or the Common Mackerel:
On Pictures by Jan Peter Tripp
The Mystery of the Red-Brown Skin:
An Approach to Bruce Chatwin
Moments musicaux
An Attempt at Restitution
Acceptance Speech to the Collegium of the German Academy

Notes
Sources of the Text
About the Pictures
About the Author
About the Translator
OceanofPDF.com

EDITORIAL NOTE
OceanofPDF.com

Campo Santo is a collection of prose by W. G. Sebald, who died in a road
accident on December 14, 2001. His novel Austerlitz had been published
shortly before, and Sebald had not yet begun working on a new book since
finishing it. However, there was a work that was never finished: in the
middle of the 1990s, after the publication of The Rings of Saturn (1995),
Sebald began writing a book about Corsica, but then set it aside and turned
to writing essays and working on Austerlitz. Parts of this Corsica project
were published from 1996 onward as separate texts, in various places;
Sebald also used a long section in 2000 as a text for his acceptance speech
on the occasion of the award of the Düsseldorf Heine Prize. These texts are
collected together for the first time and arranged, in the order of their
composition, in the opening section of the present volume: “A Little
Excursion to Ajaccio” (“In September last year, during a two-week holiday
on the island of Corsica”), “Campo Santo” (“My first walk the day after my
arrival in Piana”), “The Alps in the Sea” (“Once upon a time Corsica was
entirely covered by forest”), and finally the miniature “La cour de
l’ancienne école.” Together, the four Corsican texts, each self-contained,
make up admittedly only an incomplete spectrum, which cannot show
exactly what the abandoned book would have been like; however, collecting
the separate parts makes them appear in a new light, and they also cast light
on each other. Sebald’s literary estate, which has not yet been studied and
edited, contains no other recent literary works. The Corsican project is the
last and unfinished work of a writer’s life that came to a premature end.
The second part of this volume illustrates Sebald’s other side, as essayist
and critic. Two collections of essays on Austrian literature, Die Beschreibung
des Unglücks (1985) and Unheimiche Heimat (1991), have already been
published in German. In addition, there are the later volumes Logis in einem
Landhaus (1998) and Luftkrieg und Literatur (1999), including an essay on
*
Alfred Andersch that has provoked much controversy. The development
shown in these volumes is also reflected in the essays in the present
collection, which are chronologically arranged. They have previously
appeared in scholarly journals, literary magazines, and the arts sections of
newspapers, but are now published in book form for the first time. There are

early works of literary criticism—the first, on Peter Handke’s play Kaspar,
dates from 1975—which already show Sebald’s concern with such subjects
as destruction, mourning, and memory, themes around which his literary
work would continue to revolve, and they show the development of his
stylistic individuality. The later essays—on Ernst Herbeck, Vladimir
Nabokov, Franz Kafka, Jan Peter Tripp, and Bruce Chatwin—written from
the early 1990s on, at the same time as the narratives Vertigo, The
Emigrants, The Rings of Saturn, and Austerlitz, finally dispense with
footnotes, throw the ballast of scholarly references overboard and instead
strike the typically Sebaldian note. In “Moments musicaux” and “An
Attempt at Restitution,” Sebald’s speeches at the opening of the Munich
Opera Festival and the Stuttgart House of Literature in the year of his death,
the essayist can no longer be distinguished from the writer. In his final works
Sebald practiced the principle to which he had confessed in an interview
with Sigrid Löffler in 1993: “My medium is prose, not the novel.” At the end
of the volume is Sebald’s speech accepting membership in the German
Academy for Language and Literature. Here he tells us of a dream in which
he, like Johann Peter Hebel before him, is “unmasked as a traitor to his
country and a fraud”—in view of such fears, he says, he regards admission
to the Academy as an “unhoped-for form of justification.” Another, perhaps
less unanticipated and certainly no less honorable form of justification is the
wide acceptance of Sebald’s books by the general reader and the serious
discussion of his ideas.
Sven Meyer
* Published in English as On the Natural History of Destruction, and
also including the essays on Jean Améry and Peter Weiss, which in
the original German are part of the present volume published by
Hanser.
OceanofPDF.com

[ Prose ]
OceanofPDF.com

A Little Excursion to Ajaccio
OceanofPDF.com

In September last year, during a two-week holiday on the island of Corsica, I
took a blue bus one day down the west coast to Ajaccio to spend a little time
looking around the town, of which I knew nothing except that it was the
birthplace of the Emperor Napoleon. It was a beautiful, sunlit day, the
branches of the palms in the Place Maréchal-Foch moved gently in a breeze
coming in off the sea, a snow-white cruise ship lay in the harbor like a great
iceberg, and I wandered through the streets feeling carefree and at ease, now
and then going into one of the dark, tunnel-like entrances of buildings to
read the names of their unknown inhabitants on the metal letter boxes with a
certain rapt attention, trying to imagine what it would be like to live in one
of these stone citadels, occupied to my life’s end solely with the study of
time past and passing. But since we can none of us really live entirely
withdrawn into ourselves, and must all have some more or less significant
design in view, my wishful thinking about a few last years with no duties of
any kind soon gave way to a need to fill the present afternoon somehow, and
so I found myself, hardly knowing how I came there, in the entrance hall of
the Musée Fesch, with notebook and pencil and a ticket in my hand.
Joseph Fesch, as I later read on looking him up in my old Guide Bleu, was
the son of the late second marriage of Letizia Bonaparte’s mother to a Swiss
military officer in Genoese service, and was thus Napoleon’s step-uncle. At
the beginning of his career in the church he held a minor ecclesiastical
position in Ajaccio. After his nephew had appointed him archbishop of Lyon
and envoy to the Holy See, however, he became one of the most insatiable
art collectors of his day, a time when the market was positively flooded with
paintings and artifacts taken from churches, monasteries, and palaces during
the French Revolution, bought from émigrés, and looted in the plundering of
Dutch and Italian cities.
Fesch’s aim was no less than to document the entire course of European
art history in his private collection. No one knows for certain just how many
pictures he actually owned, but the number is thought to be around thirty
thousand. Among those that, after his death in 1838, and some devious
maneuvers on the part of Joseph Bonaparte as executor of the Cardinal’s
will, found their way into the museum especially built for them in Ajaccio

are a Madonna by Cosimo Tura, Botticelli’s Virgin Under a Garland, Pier
Francesco Cittadini’s Still Life with Turkish Carpet, Spadino’s Garden Fruits
with Parrot, Titian’s Portrait of a Young Man with a Glove, and a number of
other wonderful paintings.
The finest of all, it seemed to me that afternoon, was a picture by Pietro
Paolini, who lived and worked in Lucca in the seventeenth century. It shows
a woman of perhaps thirty against a deep black background which lightens
to a very dark brown only toward the left-hand side of the painting. She has
large, melancholy eyes and wears a dress the color of the night, which does
not stand out from the surrounding darkness even by suggestion and is thus
really invisible, and yet it is present in every fold and drape of its fabric. She
wears a string of pearls around her neck. Her right arm protectively
embraces her small daughter, who stands in front of her turning sideways,
toward the edge of the picture, but with her grave face, upon which the tears
have only just dried, turned toward the observer in a kind of silent challenge.
The little girl wears a brick-red dress, and the soldier doll hardly three inches
high which she is holding out to us, whether in memory of her father who
has gone to war or to ward off the evil eye we may be casting on her, also
wears red. I stood in front of this double portrait for a long time, seeing in it,
as I thought at the time, an annulment of all the unfathomable misfortune of
life.
Before leaving the museum I went down to the basement, where there is a
collection of Napoleonic mementos and devotional items on display. It
includes objects adorned with the head and initials of Napoleon—letter
openers, seals, penknives, and boxes for tobacco and snuff—miniatures of
the entire clan and most of their descendants, silhouettes and biscuit
medallions, an ostrich egg painted with an Egyptian scene, brightly colored
faïence plates, porcelain cups, plaster busts, alabaster figures, a bronze of
Bonaparte mounted on a dromedary, and also, beneath a glass dome almost
as tall as a man, a moth-eaten uniform tunic cut like a tailcoat, edged with
red braid and bearing twelve brass buttons: l’habit d’un colonel des
Chasseurs de la Garde, que porta Napoléon Ier (The uniform of a colonel in
the Chasseurs de la Garde, worn by Napoleon I).
There are also many statuettes of the Emperor carved from soapstone and
ivory and showing him in familiar poses, the tallest about ten centimeters
high and each of the others smaller than the last until the smallest seems
almost nothing but a white speck, perhaps representing the vanishing point

of human history. One of these diminutive figures depicts Napoleon after his
abdication sur le rocher de l’île de Sainte-Hélène (on the rock of the island
of St. Helena). Scarcely larger than a pea, he sits in cloak and three-cornered
hat astride a tiny chair set on a fragment of tuff which really does come from
his place of exile, and he is gazing out into the distance with furrowed brow.
He cannot have felt at ease there in the middle of the bleak Atlantic, and he
must have missed the excitement of his past life, particularly as it seems that
he could not really depend even on the few faithful souls who still
surrounded him in his isolation.
Or so, at least, we might conclude from an article in Corse-Matin
published on the day of my visit to the Musée Fesch, in which a certain
Professor René Maury claimed that a study of several hairs from the
Emperor’s head undertaken in the FBI laboratories established beyond any
doubt que Napoléon a lentement été empoisonné à l’arsenic à Sainte-
Hélène, entre 1817 et 1821, par l’un de ses compagnons d’exil, le comte de
Montholon, sur l’instigation de sa femme Albine qui était devenue la
maîtresse de l’empereur et s’est trouvée enceinte de lui (“that Napoleon was
slowly poisoned with arsenic on St. Helena, between 1817 and 1821, by one
of his companions in exile, the comte de Montholon, at the urging of his
wife, Albine, who had become the Emperor’s mistress and was pregnant by
him”). I do not really know what we should think of such stories. The
Napoleonic myth has, after all, given rise to the most astonishing tales,
always said to be based on incontrovertible fact. Kafka, for instance, tells us
that on November 11, 1911, he attended a conférence in the Rudolfinum on
the subject of La Légende de Napoléon, at which one Richepin, a sturdy man
of fifty with a fine figure, his hair arranged in stiff whorls in the Daudet style
and at the same time lying close to his scalp, said among other things that in
the past Napoleon’s tomb used to be opened once a year so that old soldiers
filing past could set eyes on their embalmed Emperor. But later the custom
of the annual opening of the tomb was discontinued, because his face was
becoming rather green and bloated. Richepin himself as a child, however,
says Kafka, had seen the dead Emperor in the arms of his great-uncle, who
had served in Africa and for whom the commandant had the tomb specially
opened. Moreover, Kafka’s diary entry continues, the conférence concluded
with the speaker swearing that even in a thousand years’ time every mote of
the dust of his own corpse, should it have consciousness, would still be
ready to follow the call of Napoleon.

After I had left the Musée Fesch I sat for a while on a stone bench in the
Place Letizia, which is really just a small garden set among tall buildings and
containing some trees, with eucalyptus and oleanders, fan palms, laurels, and
myrtles forming an oasis in the middle of the town. This garden is separated
from the street by iron railings, and the whitewashed façade of the Casa
Bonaparte stands on the other side of the road. The flag of the Republic hung
over the gateway through which a more or less steady stream of visitors was
going in and coming out: Dutch and Germans, Belgians and French,
Austrians and Italians, and once a whole group of elderly Japanese of very
distinguished appearance. Most of them had left, and the afternoon was
already drawing to an end, when I finally entered the building. The dimly lit
entrance hall was deserted, and there seemed to be no one at the ticket desk
either. Only when I was right in front of the counter, and was just putting out
my hand to one of the picture postcards displayed there, did I see a young
woman sitting, or I could almost have said lying behind it, in a black leather
office armchair tipped backward.
I actually had to look down at her over the edge of the counter, and this
act of looking down at the cashier of the Casa Bonaparte, who was probably
only tired from much standing and perhaps had just dozed off, was one of
those moments strangely experienced in slow motion that are sometimes
remembered years later. When the cashier rose, she proved to be a lady of
very stately proportions. You could imagine her on an operatic stage,
exhausted by the drama of her life, singing “Lasciate mi morire” or some
such closing aria. Far more striking, however, than her divalike figure, and
something that became clear only at second glance but was all the more
startling for that, was her resemblance to the French emperor in whose
birthplace she acted as doorkeeper.
She had the same rounded face, the same large, very protuberant eyes, the
same dun-colored hair falling in a jagged fringe over her forehead. As she
gave me my ticket and saw that I could not take my eyes off her, she gave
me a forbearing smile and said, in positively seductive tones, that the tour of
the house began on the second floor. I climbed the black marble staircase,
and was not a little surprised to be met on the top landing by another lady
who also seemed to be of Napoleonic descent, or rather who somehow
reminded me of Masséna or Mack or another of the legendary marshals of
France, probably because I had always imagined them as a race of dwarfish
heroes.

For the lady awaiting me at the top of the stairs was of strikingly small
stature, a feature further accentuated by her short neck and her very short
arms, which scarcely reached her hips. In addition, she wore the hues of the
Tricolor: a blue skirt and a white blouse, and around her waist a red belt with
a heavy, gleaming brass buckle which had something decidedly military
about it. When I had reached the top step the Maréchale stepped aside, half-
turning, and said, “Bonjour, monsieur.” She too wore a slightly ironic smile,
indicating, as I thought, that she knew far more than I could ever guess.
Rather disconcerted by my encounter with these two discreet messengers
from the past, which I could not account for to myself, I wandered aimlessly
around the rooms for a while, went down to the first floor, and then climbed
back to the second floor again. Only gradually did I make sense of the
furnishings of the place and the items on display.
On the whole, everything was still as Flaubert had described it in the diary
of his visit to Corsica: rather unassuming rooms furnished in the style of the
Republic; a few chandeliers and mirrors of Venetian glass, the looking
glasses now spotted and dim; a soft twilight, for the tall double windows
were wide open, just as they had been in Flaubert’s time, but the dark green
slatted blinds had been closed. Sunlight lay in white stripes like a ladder on
the oak floorboards. It was as if not an hour had passed since Flaubert’s visit.
Of the items he mentioned, only the imperial cloak with the golden bees that
he had seen shining in the chiaroscuro was no longer here. Family
documents inscribed in handsomely curving letters lay quiet in their glass
cases, with Carlo Bonaparte’s two shotguns, a couple of pistols, and a
fencing foil.
On the walls hung cameos and other miniatures, a series of colored steel
engravings of the battles of Friedland, Marengo, and Austerlitz, and a
genealogical tree of the Bonaparte family in a heavy frame covered with
gold leaf, in front of which I finally stopped. A huge oak towered up from
the brown earth against a sky-blue background, and hanging from its twigs
and branches were little white clouds cut from paper, bearing the names and
dates of all members of the imperial house and the later descendants of the
Napoleonic clan. They were all assembled here—the king of Naples, the
king of Rome, and the king of Westphalia; Marianne Elisa, Maria
Annunciata, and Marie Pauline, the most beautiful and lighthearted of the
seven siblings; the unfortunate Duke of Reichstadt, the ornithologist and
ichthyologist Charles Lucien, Plon-Plon, son of Jérôme, and Mathilde

Letizia, his daughter; Napoleon III with his twirled mustache, the Bonapartes
of Baltimore; and many more.
Without my noticing the Maréchale Ney had come up beside me, perhaps
seeing my obvious emotion as I examined this genealogical work of art, and
told me in a reverent whisper that this création unique had been made
toward the end of the last century by the daughter of a notary in Corte who
was a great admirer of Napoleon. The leaves and sprays of flowers adorned
with a few butterflies at the bottom of the picture, said Madame la
Maréchale, were genuine dried plants from the maquis, sempervivums,
myrtles, and rosemary, and the dark, sinuous tree trunk standing out in relief
against the blue background was braided from the girl’s own hair. Whether
out of love for the Emperor or for her father, she must have devoted endless
hours to her work.
I nodded attentively at this explanation, and stayed there for some time
longer before I turned, left the room, and went down to the first floor, where
the Bonaparte family had lived after they first came to Ajaccio. Carlo
Bonaparte, Napoleon’s father, was secretary to Pasquale Paoli,* and after the
defeat of the patriots at Corte in their unequal struggle against the French
troops he had moved to the seaport of Ajaccio for safety’s sake.
Accompanied by Letizia, who was pregnant with Napoleon at the time, he
traveled through the wild mountains and ravines of the interior, and I
imagine that the two tiny figures riding their mules through that
overwhelming panorama, or sitting alone by a small campfire in the darkness
of the night, must have resembled Mary and Joseph in one of the many
depictions that have come down to us of the Flight into Egypt. At any event,
if there is anything in the theory of prenatal experience, then this dramatic
journey explains a good deal about the character of the future Emperor, not
least the fact that he always did everything with a certain precipitate haste,
even in the matter of his own birth, when he was in such a hurry that Letizia
was unable to reach her bed and had to bring him into the world on a sofa in
what is known as the Yellow Room.
Perhaps it was with these remarkable circumstances attending the
beginning of his life in mind that Napoleon later made his beloved mother a
present of a Nativity scene in rather doubtful taste, carved from ivory and
still on view at the Casa Bonaparte. During the 1770s and 1780s, while the
Corsicans were adjusting to the new regime, neither Letizia nor Carlo can of
course have dreamed that the children who sat at the dining table with them

daily would eventually rise to the rank of kings and queens, or that the time
would come when the most hot-tempered of them, young Ribulione, a lad
always involved in local street fights, would wear the crown of a vast empire
extending over almost the whole of Europe.
But what can we know in advance of the course of history, which unfolds
according to some logically indecipherable law, impelled forward, often
changing direction at the crucial moment, by tiny, imponderable events, by a
barely perceptible current of air, a leaf falling to the ground, a glance
exchanged across a great crowd of people. Even in retrospect we cannot see
what things were really like before that moment, and how this or that world-
shaking event came about. The most precise study of the past scarcely comes
any closer to the unimaginable truth than, for instance, a far-fetched claim
such as I once heard made by an amateur historian called Alfonse Huyghens,
who lived in the capital of Belgium and had been pursuing his research on
Napoleon for years; according to him, all the cataclysmic events caused by
the Emperor of the French in the lands and realms of Europe were to be
traced solely to his color blindness, which made him unable to tell red from
green. The more blood flowed on the battlefield, this Belgian scholar told
me, the greener Napoleon thought the grass was growing.
In the evening I walked along the Cours Napoléon, and then sat for two
hours in a small restaurant not far from the Gare Maritime with a view of the
white cruise ship. Over coffee I studied the advertisements in the local paper
and wondered whether to go to the cinema. I like to visit the cinema in
foreign towns, but neither Judge Dredd at the Empire, USS Alabama at the
Bonaparte, nor L’Amour à tout prix at the Laetitia seemed to me the right
way to end this day. At about ten, therefore, I was back in the hotel where I
had taken a room late that morning. I opened the windows and looked out
over the rooftops of the town. Traffic was still driving down the streets, but
suddenly everything fell silent, just for a few seconds, until one of those
bombs that frequently go off in Corsica exploded with a short, sharp bang,
obviously only a few streets away. I lay down and soon fell asleep, with the
sound of the firefighters’ sirens howling in my ears.
* Pasquale Paoli (1725–1807) was known as the “Father of the
Corsican Nation.” He drew up the Corsican constitution.
OceanofPDF.com

Campo Santo
OceanofPDF.com

My first walk the day after my arrival in Piana took me out on a road that
soon begins falling away steeply in terrifying curves, sharp bends and
zigzags, leading past almost vertical rocky precipices densely overgrown
with green scrub, and so down to the bottom of a ravine opening out into the
Bay of Ficajola several hundred meters below. Down there, where until well
into the postwar period a community of twelve or so fisher-folk lived in
dwellings roughly cobbled together and roofed with corrugated iron, some of
which now have their doors and windows boarded up, I spent half the
afternoon with a few other tourists from Marseille, Munich, or Milan who
had installed themselves with their picnics and assorted items of practical
equipment in couples or family groups, at regular distances from each other,
and I lay motionless for a long time by the little quicksilver stream that even
now, at the end of summer, ran constantly down over the last granite steps of
the valley floor, with that proverbial babble familiar to me from some dim
and distant past, only to give up the ghost without a sound on the beach and
seep away. I watched the sand martins circling the flame-colored cliffs high
above in astonishingly large numbers, soaring from the bright side of the
rocks into the shadows and darting out of the shadows into the light again,
and once that afternoon, which for me was filled with a sense of liberation
and appeared to stretch endlessly away in every direction, I swam out to sea
with a great sense of lightness, very far out, so far that I felt I could simply
let myself drift away into the evening and so into the night. But as soon as,
obeying the strange instinct that binds us to life, I turned back after all and
made for the land which, from this distance, resembled a foreign continent,
swimming became more and more difficult with every stroke, and not as if I
were laboring against the current that had been carrying me on before; no, I
was inclined to think that I was swimming steadily uphill, if one can say so
of a stretch of water. The view before my eyes seemed to have tipped out of
its frame, was leaning toward me, swaying and flickering of its own accord,
with the upper rim of the picture skewed several degrees in my direction and
the lower rim skewed away from me to the same extent. And sometimes I
felt as if the prospect towering so menacingly in front of me was not a part
of the real world but the reproduction of a now insuperable inner faintness,

turned inside out and shot through with blue-black markings. Even harder
than reaching the bank was the climb later up the winding road and the
barely trodden paths which here and there link one curve in the road to the
next in a direct line. Although I placed one foot in front of the other only
slowly and very steadily, the afternoon heat building up between the rock
walls very soon brought sweat running down my forehead, and the blood
pulsed in my neck as it did in the throats of the lizards sitting everywhere in
my path, frozen in mid-movement with fear. It took me a good hour and a
half to climb to Piana again, but once there I could walk as if weightlessly,
like a man who has mastered the art of levitation, past the first houses and
gardens and along the wall of the plot of land where the local people bury
their dead. When I passed through the iron gate, which squealed on its
hinges, this proved to be a rather desolate graveyard of the kind not
uncommon in France, where you have the impression not so much of an
antechamber to eternal life as of a place administered by the local authority
and designed for the secular removal of waste matter from human society.
Many of the graves standing in untidy rows all over the dry slope, their lines
everywhere broken or slightly displaced, have already sunk into the ground,
and are partially overlapped by later additions. Hesitantly, and with that
touch of reluctance that one feels even today in approaching the dead too
closely, I clambered over crumbling plinths and edgings, tombstones shifted
out of place, ruinous masonry, a crucifix fallen from its mount and disfigured
by rust marks, a leaden urn, an angel’s hand—silent fragments of a town
abandoned years ago, and not a shrub or a tree to give shade anywhere, no
thujas or cypresses of the kind so often planted in southern cemeteries,
whether for comfort or as a sign of mourning. At first sight I really believed
that the only reminders in the Piana graveyard of the nature which, we have
always hoped, will endure long after our own end, were the artificial purple,
mauve, and pink flowers, obviously pressed upon their customers by French
undertakers, made of silk or nylon chiffon, of brightly painted porcelain,
wire, and metal, appearing not so much a sign of enduring affection as the
final emergence of a kind of proof that, despite all assurances to the contrary,
we offer our dead only the cheapest substitutes for the diverse beauty of life.
Not until I looked more carefully around me did I notice the weeds—the
vetch, wild thyme, white clover, yarrow and chamomile, cow wheat, yellow
oat grass, and many other grasses with names unknown to me—that had
grown around the stones to form actual herbariums and miniature

landscapes, still showing some green but already half dead, and far lovelier, I
thought to myself, than the ornamental funerary plants sold by German
cemetery florists, usually consisting of heathers, dwarf conifers, and pansies
of absolutely standard shape, planted in spotless, soot-black soil in strict
geometrical rows, as I still see them in unwelcome memories of my now
distant childhood and youth in the foothills of the Alps. But here and there
among the thin flower stems, the blades and ears of grass in the graveyard of
Piana, a departed soul looked out from one of those oval sepia portraits set in
thin gilded frames which until the sixties used to be placed on graves in the
Mediterranean countries: a blond hussar in his high-collared uniform tunic; a
girl who died on her nineteenth birthday, her face almost extinguished by the
sun and the rain; a short-necked man with his tie in a large knot, who had
been a colonial civil servant in Oran until 1958; a little soldier, forage cap
tilted sideways on his head, who came home badly wounded from the futile
defense of the jungle fortress of Dien Bien Phu. In many places weeds
already cover the polished marble votive tablets on the newer graves, most
of which bear only the brief inscription Regrets or Regrets éternels in neatly
curving characters which might have been copied by a child from a manual
of handwriting. Regrets éternels—like almost all the phrases in which we
express our feelings for those who have gone before, it is not without
ambiguity, for not only does the announcement of the everlasting
inconsolability of the bereaved confine itself to the absolute minimum, it
also sounds, if one stops to consider it, almost like an admission to the dead
of guilt, a halfhearted request for forbearance made to those laid in the earth
before their time. Only the names of the dead themselves seemed to me clear
and free of any ambiguity, not a few of them being as perfect in both
significance and sound as if those who once bore them had been saints in
their own lifetime, or messengers from a distant world devised by our higher
yearnings, visiting this one only for a brief guest performance. Yet in reality
they, too, those who had borne the names Gregorio Grimaldi, Angelina
Bonavita, Natale Nicoli, Santo Santini, Serafino Fontano, and Archangelo
Casabianca, had certainly not been proof against human malice, their own or
that of others’. Another striking feature of the design of the Piana graveyard,
and one that revealed itself only gradually as I walked among the graves,
was the fact that in general the dead were buried in clans, so that the
Ceccaldi lay beside the Ceccaldi and the Quilichini beside the Quilichini, but
this old order, founded on not many more than a dozen names, had been

forced some time ago to give way to the order of modern civil life, in which
everyone is alone and in the end is allotted a place only for himself and his
closest relations, a place that corresponds as accurately as possible to the
size of his property or the depth of his poverty. If one cannot speak of a
wealth of ostentatious funerary architecture anywhere in the small
communities of Corsica, even a place like the Piana graveyard has a few
tombs adorned with pediments where the more prosperous have found an
appropriate final resting place. The next social class down is represented by
sarcophaguslike structures made of granite or concrete slabs, depending on
the assets of those laid to rest there. Stone slabs lie on the ground above the
graves of the dead of even less importance. And those whose means are
insufficient even for such a slab must be content with turquoise or pink
gravel kept in place by a narrow border around it, while the very poor have
only a metal cross stuck in the bare earth, or a crucifix roughly welded from
tubing, perhaps painted bronze or with a gold cord wound around it. In this
way the graveyard of Piana, a place where until recently only the more or
less poverty-stricken lived, now resembles the necropolises of our great
cities in reflecting all gradations of the social hierarchy as marked by the
unequal division of earthly riches. The biggest stones are usually rolled over
the graves of the richest people, for it is to be feared that they are the most
likely to begrudge their progeny their inheritance and to try to take back
what they have lost. The mighty blocks of stone erected above them for the
sake of security are, of course, with self-deluding cunning, disguised as
monuments of deep veneration. Significantly, such expense is unnecessary
on the death of one of our lesser brethren, who can perhaps call nothing his
own at the hour of his death other than the suit in which he is buried—or so I
thought as I gazed out over the highest-standing row of graves, looking
across the Piana cemetery and the silver crowns of the olive trees beyond the
wall, and so on to the Gulf of Porto shining up from far below. Something
that particularly surprised me about this resting place of the dead was that
not one of the funerary inscriptions was more than sixty or seventy years old.
I discovered some months later that the reason lay in one of those strange
Corsican situations involving blood feuds and banditry, finding this
information in what I consider in many respects a model study by Stephen
Wilson, one of my professional colleagues, who presents the extensive
material he has assembled during many years of research to his readers with
the greatest imaginable care, clarity, and restraint.* The absence of any dates

of death going back even to the early twentieth century was not, as I had at
first suspected, to be accounted for by the now very usual practice of
successively abandoning old graves, nor could it be explained by the
existence of an earlier graveyard somewhere else; rather, the reason was
simply that graveyards in Corsica were made official burial places only
around the middle of the nineteenth century, and even then it was a long time
before the population accepted them. In an account dating from 1893, for
instance, we hear that no one used the Ajaccio town cemetery apart from the
poor and the Protestants, who were known as luterani. To all appearances,
the bereaved were unwilling to remove the dead who owned a piece of land
from their hereditary property, or else they dared not do so. For centuries, the
usual form of Corsican burial, on land inherited from the forefathers of the
dead, was like a contract affirming inalienable rights to that land, a contract
between every dead man and his progeny and tacitly renewed from
generation to generation. You therefore find little dwellings for the dead
everywhere, da paese a paese: burial chambers and mausoleums, here under
a chestnut tree, there in an olive grove full of moving light and shade, in the
middle of a pumpkin bed, in a field of oats or on a hillside overgrown with
the feathery foliage of yellow-green dill. In such places, which are often
particularly beautiful and have a good view over the family’s territory, the
village, and the rest of the local land, the dead were always in a way at
home, were not sent into exile, and could continue to watch over the
boundaries of their property. I also read, in a source which I cannot now
place, that many old Corsican women used to go out to the dwellings of the
dead after the day’s work was done, to listen to what they had to say and
consult them on the cultivation of the land and other matters to do with the
correct conduct of life. For a long time, when landless people died—
shepherds, day laborers, Italian farmworkers, and other indigent folk—they
were simply sewn into sacks and thrown down a shaft with a lid over it.
Such a communal grave, where the corpses probably lay all jumbled up like
cabbage and turnips, was called an arca, and in many places it might
alternatively be a stone house without any windows or doors, the dead being
pushed down inside it through a hole in the roof, which could be reached by
stairs going up the outside wall. And in the Campodonico near Orezza,
Stephen Wilson tells us, those who owned no land were just thrown down a
ravine, a practice which the bandit Muzzarettu, who died in 1952 at the age
of eighty-five, said was still usual even when he lived in Grossa. But this

custom, dictated by both the division of property and social order, by no
means implies that the poorer among the dead were slighted or despised.
They, too, received signs of respect, as far as the means available would
allow. Corsican funeral rites were fundamentally extremely elaborate and of
a highly dramatic character. The doors and shutters of the house afflicted by
misfortune were closed, and sometimes the whole façade was painted black.
The corpse, washed and freshly dressed, or in the not uncommon case of a
violent death left in its bloodstained condition, was laid out in the parlor,
which was usually less a room intended for the use of the living than the
domain of dead members of the family, who were known as the antichi or
antinati. This was where, after the introduction of photography, which in
essence, after all, is nothing but a way of making ghostly apparitions
materialize by means of a very dubious magical art, the living hung pictures
of their parents, grandparents, and relations either close or more distant, who
although or even because they were no longer alive were regarded as the true
heads of the family. The wake was held beneath their uncompromising gaze,
and on such occasions the women, otherwise condemned to silence, assumed
the leading roles, singing laments and wailing all night, tearing their hair and
scratching their faces like the Furies of old, particularly when the body was
that of a murdered man, and to all appearances were quite beside themselves
with blind rage and pain, while the men stood out in the dark entrance to the
house or on the steps, pounding the floor with their rifle butts. Stephen
Wilson points out that eyewitnesses present at such wakes in the nineteenth
century, and up to the interwar period, thought it remarkable that while the
wailing women worked themselves up into a trancelike state, were overcome
by dizziness, and fainted away, they gave no impression at all of being
overwhelmed by genuine emotion. Many accounts, says Stephen Wilson,
even speak of a striking lack of feeling or rigidity in which the singer sheds
not a single tear, even though her voice breaks convulsively with passion in
the highest registers. In view of such apparently icy self-control, some
commentators have been inclined to regard the laments of the voceratrici as
a hollow sham, a spectacle prescribed by tradition, and this idea is supported
by the observation that merely getting a chorus of mourners together will
have called for a considerable amount of practical organization in advance
and rational direction of the singing itself. In truth, of course, there is no
discrepancy between such calculation and a genuine grief which actually
makes the mourners seem beside themselves, for fluctuation between the

expression of deeply felt sorrow, which can sound like a choking fit, and the
aesthetically—even cunningly—modulated manipulation of the audience to
whom that grief is displayed has perhaps been the most typical characteristic
of our severely disturbed species at every stage of civilization.
Anthropological literature contains many descriptions by writers such as
Frazer, Huizinga, Eliade, Lévi-Strauss, and Rudolf Bilz of the members of
early tribal cultures who, while celebrating their rites of initiation or
sacrifice, retained a very precise and ever-present subliminal awareness that
the compulsive extremes to which they went, always connected with the
infliction of injury and mutilation, were in essence mere playacting, even
though the performance could sometimes approach the point of death. Those
in severe psychological conditions also have a clear idea somewhere, in their
inmost hearts, that they are literally acting body and soul in a play.
Moreover, the pathological state of mind of the Corsican voceratrici,
characterized by both total collapse and the utmost self-control, was
probably not fundamentally different from that of the somnambulists who
have fallen into carefully rehearsed paroxysms of hysteria on the stages of
opera houses evening after evening for two hundred years or more. But in
any case the lamentations in the dead person’s darkened house, illuminated
only by the flickering light of a single candle, were followed by the funeral
feast. The expense to which the bereaved had to go for the sake of their own
and the dead man’s honor in this feast, which often lasted several days, was
so great that it could ruin a family if bad luck brought several murders or
fatal attacks in quick succession, perhaps as part of a blood feud. Mourning
was worn for five years or longer; on her husband’s death, a widow stayed in
mourning for the rest of her life. It is not surprising that the high-necked
black dress and black headscarf, or the black corduroy suit, seemed to be
Corsican national costume until well into the twentieth century. According to
the accounts of earlier travelers, there was an aura of melancholy about those
black figures seen everywhere in the streets of villages and towns and out in
the country, an aura that even on the brightest sunlit days lay like a shadow
over the green and leafy world of the island, and was reminiscent of the
pictures of Poussin, for instance those depicting the massacre of the
innocents or the death of Germanicus. Remembrance of the dead never
really came to an end. Every year on All Souls’ Day, a table was especially
laid for them in Corsican houses, or at least a few cakes were put out on the
windowsill as if for hungry birds in winter, since it was thought that they

visited in the middle of the night to take a morsel of food. And a tub of
cooked chestnuts was left outside the door for the vagabond beggars who, in
the minds of the settled population, represented restless wandering spirits.
Since the dead are known to be always cold, people took care not to let the
fire on the hearth go out before day dawned. All this indicates both the
lasting grief of the bereaved and the fear they could barely assuage, for the
dead were thought of as extremely touchy, envious, vengeful, quarrelsome,
and cunning. Given the least excuse, they would infallibly take their
displeasure out on you. They were not regarded as beings forever at a safe
distance in the world beyond the grave, but as family members still present,
although in a different condition, and forming a kind of solidarity in the
communità dei defunti against those who were not yet dead. About a foot
shorter than they had been in life, they went around in bands and groups, or
sometimes followed a banner along the road, drawn up in regiments. They
were heard talking and whispering in their strange piping voices, but nothing
they said to each other could be understood except for the name of
whomever they intended to come for next. There are many stories of their
appearances and the methods they used to announce their presence. Until the
very recent past, there were people living who had seen pale lights above a
house in which someone was soon to die, who heard a dog howling at the
wrong time, or the squealing of a cart that stopped outside the gate after
midnight, or the beat of drums from the darkness of the maquis. There, in
that vast space still almost untouched by human hand, was the abode of the
armies of the dead, and clad in the full, billowing cloaks of the brotherhood
of corpses, or the colorful uniforms of fusiliers who had fallen on the
battlefields of Wagram and Waterloo, they set out from the maquis to ensure
that they received the share of life due to them. They were known from time
immemorial as the cumpagnia, the mumma, or the squadra d’Arozza, and
they were believed to be bent on entering their former dwellings or even the
churches, to say a blasphemous rosary as they prayed for a new recruit. And
the power of the squadrons of the dead, increasing in numbers and strength
year by year, was not all that must be feared: there were also individual
restless ghosts intent on revenge, lying in wait by the roadside for travelers,
suddenly emerging from behind a rock or manifesting themselves on the
road itself, usually during the sinister hours of the day—at noon, when
everyone was usually at table, or after the Angelus was rung, when pale
shadows discolored the earth in the brief space of time between sunset and

nightfall. And a man might often happen to return from working in the fields
with the eerie news that in the middle of the empty countryside, where you
usually knew everyone in your own or the next village by his bearing and his
gait, he had seen a crook-backed stranger, if not the fulcina in person, the
Reaper with sickle in hand. Dorothy Carrington, who frequently visited
Corsica in the fifties and spent long periods there, says that a certain Jean
Cesari, whom she had met in London and regarded as an enlightened man
perfectly familiar with the principles of scientific thinking, and who later
introduced her to the mysteries of his native Corsica, was firmly convinced
of the real presence of ghosts, and indeed swore by his eyesight that he had
seen and heard them himself. When he was asked in what form the ghosts
appeared, and if you might meet dead friends and relations among them,
Cesari said that at first glance they seemed to be like normal people, but as
soon as you looked more closely their faces blurred and flickered at the
edges, just like the faces of actors in an old movie. And sometimes only their
upper bodies were clearly outlined, while the rest of them resembled drifting
smoke. Over and beyond such stories, which are also handed down in other
popular cultures, there was still a widespread belief in Corsica, until well
into the decades after the last war, that some special people were in a way in
the service of death. These culpa morti, acciatori, or mazzeri, as they were
called, men as well as women, who were reliably said to come from every
class of the population and outwardly differed not at all from other members
of the community, were believed to have the ability to leave their bodies at
home by night and go out hunting. Obeying a compulsion that came over
them like a sickness, they were said to crouch in the darkness by rivers and
springs, ready to strangle some creature, a fox or a hare, when it came to
quench its thirst, and in the animal’s distorted countenance such people,
victims of this murderous form of noctambulism, would recognize the image
of some inhabitant of their village, sometimes even a close relation, who
from that terrible moment on was doomed to die. What lies behind this
extremely bizarre superstition, something that we can hardly imagine today
and is obviously entirely untouched by Christian doctrine, is the awareness,
arising from the family’s shared suffering of an endless series of the most
painful experiences, of a shadow realm extending into the light of day, a
place where, in an act of perverse violence, the fate we shall finally meet is
predetermined. But the people whom Dorothy Carrington called dream-
hunters, the acciatori, now almost extinct, were not just the spawn of an

imagination ruled by profound fatalism; they could also be cited as evidence
for Freud’s psychological theory—as enlightening as it is impossible to
prove—that to the unconscious mind even those who die a natural death are
victims of murder. I remember very well how, as a child, I stood for the first
time by an open coffin, with the dull sense in my breast that my grandfather,
lying there on wood shavings, had suffered a shameful injustice that none of
us survivors could make good. And for some time, too, I have known that
the more one has to bear, for whatever reason, of the burden of grief which is
probably not imposed on the human species for nothing, the more often do
we meet ghosts. On the Graben in Vienna, in the London Underground, at a
reception given by the Mexican ambassador, at a lockkeeper’s cottage on the
Ludwigskanal in Bamberg, now here and now there, without expecting it,
you may meet one of those beings who are somehow blurred and out of
place and who, as I always feel, are a little too small and shortsighted; they
have something curiously watchful about them, as if they were lying in wait,
and their faces bear the expression of a race that wishes us ill. Not long ago,
when I was queuing at the supermarket checkout, a very dark-skinned man,
almost pitch-black in color, stood in front of me with a large and, as it turned
out, entirely empty suitcase into which, after paying for them, he put the
Nescafé, the biscuits, and the few other things he had bought. He had
probably arrived in Norwich only the day before from Zaire or Uganda to
study, I thought, and then forgot him, until toward evening of the same day
the three daughters of one of our neighbors knocked on our door bringing
the news that their father had died before dawn of a severe heart attack. They
are still around us, the dead, but there are times when I think that perhaps
they will soon be gone. Now that we have reached a point where the number
of those alive on earth has doubled within just three decades, and will treble
within the next generation, we need no longer fear the once overwhelming
numbers of the dead. Their significance is visibly decreasing. We can no
longer speak of everlasting memory and the veneration of our forebears. On
the contrary: the dead must now be cleared out of the way as quickly and
comprehensively as possible. What mourner at a crematorium funeral has
not thought, as the coffin moves into the furnace, that the way we now take
leave of the dead is marked by ill-concealed and paltry haste? And the room
allotted to them becomes smaller and smaller; they are often given notice to
leave after only a few years. Where will their mortal remains go then, how
will they be disposed of? It is a fact that there is great pressure on space,

even here in the country. What must it be like in the cities inexorably moving
toward the thirty million mark? Where will they all go, the dead of Buenos
Aires and São Paolo, of Mexico City, Lagos and Cairo, Tokyo, Shanghai,
and Bombay? Very few of them, probably, into a cool grave. And who has
remembered them, who remembers them at all? To remember, to retain and
to preserve, Pierre Bertaux wrote of the mutation of mankind even thirty
years ago, was vitally important only when population density was low, we
manufactured few items, and nothing but space was present in abundance.
You could not do without anyone then, even after death. In the urban
societies of the late twentieth century, on the other hand, where everyone is
instantly replaceable and is really superfluous from birth, we have to keep
throwing ballast overboard, forgetting everything that we might otherwise
remember: youth, childhood, our origins, our forebears and ancestors. For a
while the site called the Memorial Grove recently set up on the Internet may
endure; here you can lay those particularly close to you to rest electronically
and visit them. But this virtual cemetery, too, will dissolve into the ether, and
the whole past will flow into a formless, indistinct, silent mass. And leaving
a present without memory, in the face of a future that no individual mind can
now envisage, in the end we shall ourselves relinquish life without feeling
any need to linger at least for a while, nor shall we be impelled to pay return
visits from time to time.
* Feuding Conflict and Banditry in Nineteenth-Century Corsica
(Cambridge University, 1988).
OceanofPDF.com

The Alps in the Sea
OceanofPDF.com

Once upon a time Corsica was entirely covered by forest. Story by story it
grew for thousands of years in rivalry with itself, up to heights of fifty
meters and more, and who knows, perhaps larger and larger species would
have evolved, trees reaching to the sky, if the first settlers had not appeared
and if, with the typical fear felt by their own kind for its place of origin, they
had not steadily forced the forest back again.
The degradation of the most highly developed plant species is a process
known to have begun near what we call the cradle of civilization. Most of
the high forests that once grew all the way to the Dalmatian, Iberian, and
North African coasts had already been cut down by the beginning of the
present era. Only in the interior of Corsica did a few forests of trees towering
far taller than those of today remain, and they were still being described with
awe by nineteenth-century travelers, although now they have almost entirely
disappeared. Of the silver firs that were among the dominant tree species of
Corsica in the Middle Ages, standing everywhere in the mists clinging to the
mountains, on overshadowed slopes and in ravines, only a few relics are now
left in the Marmano valley and the Forêt de Puntiello; and on a walk there, a
remembered image came into my mind of a forest in the Innerfern through
which I had once gone as a child with my grandfather.
A history of the forests of France by Etienne de la Tour, published during
the Second Empire, speaks of individual firs growing to a height of almost
sixty meters during their lives of over a thousand years, and they, so de la
Tour writes, are the last trees to convey some idea of the former grandeur of
the European forests. He laments the destruction of the Corsican forests par
des exploitations mal conduites (by mismanaged exploitation), which was
already becoming a clear menace in his time. The stands of trees spared
longest were those in the most inaccessible regions, for instance the great
forest of Bavella, which covered the Corsican Dolomites between Sartène
and Solenzara and was largely untouched until toward the end of the
nineteenth century.
The English landscape painter and writer Edward Lear, who traveled in
Corsica in the summer of 1876, wrote of the immense forests that then rose
high from the blue twilight of the Solenzara valley and clambered up the

steepest slopes, all the way to the vertical cliffs and precipices with their
overhangs, cornices, and upper terraces where smaller groups of trees stood
like plumes on a helmet. On the more level surfaces at the head of the pass,
the soft ground on which you walked was densely overgrown with all kinds
of different bushes and herbs. Arbutus grew here, a great many ferns,
heathers and juniper bushes, grasses, asphodels, and dwarf cyclamen, and
from all these low-growing plants rose the gray trunks of Laricio pines, their
green parasols seeming to float free far, far above in the crystal-clear air.
“At three the top of the pass … is reached,” says Lear, “and here the real
forest of Bavella commences, lying in a deep cup-like hollow between this
and the opposite ridge, the north and south side of the valley being formed
by the tremendous columns and peaks of granite … which stood up like two
gigantic portions of a vast amphitheatre,” with the sea beyond them, and the
Italian coast like a brush stroke drawn on paper. These crags, he writes, “are
doubly awful and magnificent now that one is close to them, and excepting
the heights of Serbal and Sinai, they exceed in grandeur anything of the kind
I have ever seen.” But Lear also comments on the timber carts drawn by
fourteen or sixteen mules which even then were making their way along the
sharply winding road, transporting single trunks a hundred to a hundred and
twenty feet long and up to six feet in diameter, an observation that I found
confirmed in 1879 by the Dictionnaire de géographie edited by Vivien de
Saint-Martin, in which the Dutch traveler and topographer Melchior van de
Velde writes that he has never seen a finer forest than the forest of Bavella,
not even in Switzerland, Lebanon, or on the islands of Indochina.
Bavella est ce que j’ai vu de plus beau en fait de forêts, says van de Velde,
adding this warning: Seulement, si le touriste veut la voir dans sa gloire,
qu’il se hâte!* La hache s’y promène et Bavella s’en va! The ax is abroad
and Bavella is disappearing. And indeed, nothing in the Bavella area today is
as it must then have been. It is true that when you first climb to the pass from
the south, coming closer and closer to the rocky peaks, which are violet to
purple in color and are often surrounded halfway up by wreaths of vapor,
and then look down from the edge of the Bocca into the Solenzara valley, it
seems at first as if the wonderful forests praised by van de Velde and Lear
were still standing. In truth, however, no trees grow here except those
planted by the forestry department on the site of the great fire of the summer
of 1960: slender conifers which cannot be imagined lasting a single human
lifetime, let alone for dozens of generations.

The ground under these meager pines is largely bare: I myself saw not the
slightest trace of the wealth of game mentioned by earlier travelers—le
gibier y abonde, writes van de Velde. Ibex were once extremely abundant
here, eagles and vultures soared above the rock slides, hundreds of siskins
and finches darted through the canopy of the forest, quail and partridge
nested under the low shrubs, and butterflies fluttered everywhere around
you. The creatures of Corsica are said to have been strikingly small, a
phenomenon that sometimes occurs on islands.
Ferdinand Gregorovius, who traveled in Corsica in 1852, mentions an
entomologist from Dresden whom he met in the hills above Sartène, and
who told him that the island had struck him as a paradise garden on his first
visit, particularly because of the small size of its fauna species, and indeed,
writes Gregorovius, soon after he met the Saxon entomologist he had several
sightings in the forest of Bavella of the Tyrrhenian red deer, Cervus elaphus
corsicanus, now long since extinct, an animal of dwarfish stature and almost
oriental appearance, with a head much too large for the rest of its body, and
eyes wide with fear in constant expectation of death.
Although the game that once lived in such abundance in the forests of the
island has been eradicated almost without trace today, the fever of the chase
still breaks out on Corsica every September. During my excursions into the
interior of the island I repeatedly felt as if the entire male population were
participating in a ritual of destruction which long ago became pointless. The
older men, usually wearing blue dungarees, are posted beside the road all the
way up into the mountains; the young men, in a kind of paramilitary gear,
drive around in jeeps and cross-country vehicles as if they thought the
countryside were occupied, or they were expecting an enemy invasion.
Unshaven, carrying heavy rifles, menacing in their manner, they look like
those Croatian and Serbian militiamen who destroyed their native land in
their deranged belligerence; and, like those Marlboro-style heroes of the
Yugoslavian civil war, the Corsican hunters are not to be trifled with if you
happen to stray into their territory.
More than once on such meetings they plainly indicated that they did not
want to talk to some chance-come hiker about their sanguinary business, and
sent me on my way with a gesture making it clear that anyone who did not
get out of the danger zone very quickly might easily be shot down. Once, a
little way below Evisa, I tried to strike up a conversation with one of the

hunters posted beside the road and obviously taking his task very seriously, a
short man of around sixty who was sitting, his double-barreled shotgun
across his knees, on the low stone balustrade which fences off the road at
that point from the ravine of the Gorges de Spelunca, where it drops to two
hundred meters below. The cartridges he had with him were very large, and
the belt carrying them was so broad that it reached like a leather jerkin from
his belly to halfway up his chest. When I asked him what he was looking for,
he simply replied sangliers (wild boars), as if that alone must suffice to send
me packing. He would not have his photograph taken, but warded me off
with his outspread hand just as guerrillas do in front of the camera.
In the Corsican newspapers, the so-called ouverture de la chasse (the start of
the hunting season) is one of the main subjects of reporting in September,
together with the never-ending accounts of the bombing of police stations,
local authority tax offices, and other public institutions, and it even casts into
the shade the excitement over the start of the new school year which seizes
annually upon the entire French nation. Articles are published about the state
of the game preserves in the various regions, last season’s hunting, prospects
for the present campaign, and indeed hunting in general in every imaginable
form. And the papers print photographs of men of martial appearance
emerging from the maquis with their guns over their shoulders, or posing
around a dead boar. The main subject, however, is the lamentable fact that
fewer and fewer hares and partridges can be found every year.
Mon mari, complains the wife of a hunter from Vissavona to a Corse-
Matin reporter, for instance, mon mari, qui rentrait toujours avec cinq ou six
perdrix, on a tout juste pris une.* In a way the contempt she expresses for
the husband coming home empty-handed from his foray into the wilderness,
the indisputably ludicrous appearance of the ultimately unsuccessful hunter
in the eyes of his wife, women always having been excluded from the hunt,
is the closing episode of a story that looks far back into our dark past, and
that even in my childhood filled me with uneasy premonitions.
I remember, for instance, how on my way to school I once passed the yard
of Wohlfahrt the butcher on a frosty autumn morning, just as a dozen deer
were being unloaded from a cart and tipped out on the paving stones. I could
not move from the spot for a long time, so spellbound was I by the sight of
the dead animals. Even then the fuss made by the hunters about sprigs of fir,
and the palms arranged in the butcher’s empty white-tiled shopwindow on

Sundays, seemed to me somehow dubious. Bakers obviously needed no such
decorations.
Later, in England, I saw rows of little green plastic trees hardly an inch
high surrounding cuts of meat and offal displayed in the shopwindows of
“family butchers.” The obvious fact that these evergreen plastic ornaments
must be mass-produced somewhere for the sole purpose of alleviating our
sense of guilt about the bloodshed seemed to me, in its very absurdity, to
show how strongly we desire absolution and how cheap we have always
bought it.
All this was going through my head again one afternoon as I sat at the
window of my hotel room in Piana. I had found an old volume of the
Bibliothèque de la Pléiade in the drawer of the bedside table, and I began to
read Flaubert’s version of the Legend of Saint Julian, which I had not known
before, that strange tale in which an insatiable passion for hunting and a
vocation for sainthood do battle in the same heart. I was both fascinated and
disturbed by the story, which in itself I approached with reluctance.
Even the episode of the killing of the church mouse, an explosion of
violence in a boy who until that moment had always behaved well, got under
my skin most uncomfortably. We are told that Julian, waiting by the
mousehole, gave the creature a small tap and was taken aback to see that its
little body had stopped moving. A drop of blood stained the flagstones. And
the longer the story went on, the more blood there was. Time after time, the
crime must be masked by another kind of death. The pigeon brought down
by Julian with his sling lies twitching in a privet bush, and as he wrings its
neck he feels his senses faint with pleasure. As soon as he has learned the art
of the chase from his father, the urge comes over him to go out into the
wilderness. Now he is forever hunting wild boar in the forest, bear in the
mountains, deer in the valleys or out in open country. The animals take fright
at the sound of the drum, hounds race over the hillsides, hawks rise in the
air, and birds drop like stones from the sky.
The huntsman comes home every evening covered with mud and blood,
and so the killing goes on and on until, one icy cold winter’s morning, Julian
goes out and, in a daylong frenzy, strikes down everything moving around
him. Arrows fall, we are told, like rain beating down in a thunderstorm. In
the end, night comes, the sunset is red among the branches of the forest like
a cloth soaked with blood, and Julian leans against a tree with his eyes wide
open, looking at the vast extent of the slaughter and wondering how he can

have done it. He then falls victim to a paralysis of the soul, and begins his
long wanderings through a world which is no longer in a state of grace,
sometimes in such blazing heat that the hair on his head catches fire of its
own accord in the glow of the sun, at other times in cold so icy that it breaks
his limbs. He refuses to hunt anymore, but sometimes his terrible passion
comes over him again in his dreams; he sees himself, like our father Adam,
surrounded by all the creatures in the garden of paradise, and he has only to
reach out his arm and they are dead. Or he sees them passing by in pairs
before his eyes, beginning with aurochs and elephant and going on all the
way to the peacocks, guinea fowl, and ermine as they looked on the day
when they entered the Ark. From the darkness of a cave he hurls darts that
never miss their mark, yet more and more follow without end.
Wherever he goes, wherever he turns, the ghosts of the animals he has
killed are with him, until at last, after much hardship and suffering, he is
rowed by a leper across the water to the end of the world. On the opposite
bank, Julian must share the ferryman’s bed, and then, as he embraces the
man’s fissured and ulcerated flesh, partly hard and gnarled, partly
deliquescent, spending the night breast to breast and mouth to mouth with
that most repellent of all human beings, he is released from his torment and
may rise into the blue expanses of the firmament.
Not once as I read could I take my eyes off this utterly perverse tale of the
despicable nature of human violence, a story that probes horror further with
every line. Only the act of grace when the saint is transfigured on the last
page let me look up again.
Evening twilight was already darkening half of my room. Outside, however,
the setting sun still hung above the sea, and in the blazing light that rippled
from it the whole of that section of world visible from my window quivered,
a view unspoiled by the line of any road or the smallest human settlement.
The monstrous rock formations of Les Calanques, carved from granite over
millions of years by wind, salt mist, and rain, and towering up three hundred
meters from the depths, shone in fiery copper red as if the stone itself were
in flames, glowing from within. Sometimes I thought I saw the outlines of
plants and animals burning in that flickering light, or the shapes of a whole
race of people stacked into a great pyre. Even the water below seemed to be
aflame.

Only as the sun sank beneath the horizon was the surface of the sea
extinguished; the fire in the rocks faded, turned lilac and blue, and shadows
moved out from the coast. It took my eyes some time to become accustomed
to the soft twilight, and then I could see the ship that had emerged from the
middle of the fire and was now making for Porto harbor so slowly that you
felt it was not moving at all. It was a white yacht with five masts, and it left
not the slightest wake on the still water. Although almost motionless, it
moved forward as inexorably as the big hand of a clock. The ship was
moving, so to speak, along the line dividing what we can perceive from what
no one has ever yet seen.
Far out above the sea, the last gleam of daylight faded; inland, the
darkness was gathering closer and closer, until the lights on board the snow-
white ship showed against the black heights of Capo Senino and the
Scandola peninsula. Through my binoculars I saw the warm glow in the
cabin windows, the lanterns on the superstructure of the deck, the sparkling
garlands of light slung from mast to mast, but no other sign of life at all. For
perhaps an hour the ship lay there at rest, shining in the dark, as if its captain
were waiting for permission to put in to the harbor hidden behind Les
Calanques. Then, as the stars began to show above the mountains, it turned
and moved away again as slowly as it had come.
* Of the forests I have seen, Bavella is the loveliest.… Only, if the
tourist wishes to see it in its glory, he must make haste!
* My husband, who always used to come home with five or six
partridges, got only one.
OceanofPDF.com

La cour de l’ancienne école
OceanofPDF.com

After this picture was sent to me last December, with a friendly request for
me to think of something appropriate to say about it, it lay on my desk for
some weeks, and the longer it lay there and the more often I looked at it the
further it seemed to withdraw from me, until the task, in itself nothing worth
mentioning, became an insuperable obstacle looming ahead. Then one day at
the end of January, not a little to my relief, the picture suddenly disappeared
from the place where it lay, and no one knew where it had gone. When some
time had passed and I had almost entirely forgotten it, it unexpectedly
returned, this time in a letter from Bonifacio in which Mme Séraphine
Aquaviva, with whom I had been corresponding since the summer before,
told me that she would be interested to know how I had come by the drawing
enclosed without comment in my letter of January 27, showing the yard of
the old school of Porto Vecchio, which she had attended in the thirties. At
that time, Mme Aquaviva’s letter continued, Porto Vecchio was a town
almost dead, constantly plagued by malaria, surrounded by salt marshes,
swamps, and impenetrable green scrub. Once a month at most, a rusty
freighter came from Livorno to take a load of oak planks aboard on the
quayside. Otherwise, nothing happened, except that everything went on
rotting and decaying as it had for centuries. There was always a strange
silence in the streets, since half the population was drowsing the day away
indoors, shaking with fever, or sitting on steps and in doorways looking
sallow and hollow-cheeked. We schoolchildren, said Mme Aquaviva,
knowing nothing else, of course had no idea of the futility of our lives in a
town made practically uninhabitable by paludism, as the phenomenon was
called at the time. Like other children in more fortunate areas, we learned
arithmetic and writing, and were taught various anecdotes about the rise and
fall of the Emperor Napoleon. From time to time we looked out of the
window, across the wall of the schoolyard and over the white rim of the
lagoon, into the dazzling light that trembled far out over the Tyrrhenian Sea.
Otherwise, Mme Aquaviva concluded her letter, I have almost no memories
of my schooldays, except that whenever our teacher, a former hussar called
Toussaint Benedetti, bent over my work he would say: Ce que tu écris mal,

Séraphine! Comment veux-tu qu’on puisse te lire? (How badly you write,
Séraphine! How do you expect anyone to read that?)
OceanofPDF.com

[ Essays ]
OceanofPDF.com

Strangeness, Integration, and Crisis
ON PETER HANDKE’S PLAY KASPAR
OceanofPDF.com

We must therefore listen attentively to every whisper of the world, trying
to detect the images that have never made their way into poetry, the
phantasms that have never reached a waking state. No doubt this is an
impossible task in two senses; first because it would force us to
reconstitute the dust of those actual sufferings and foolish words that
nothing preserves in time; second, and above all, because those
sufferings and words exist only in the act of separation.
MICHEL FOUCAULT, MADNESS AND CIVILIZATION
When, after several panic-stricken attempts, Kaspar emerges onstage from
behind the backdrop of a curtain, and at first does not move from the spot in
1
that strange space, “he is the incarnation of astonishment.” At the end of
what seems to us to have been a long flight he finds himself in a clearing,
hemmed in without any way of escape, delivered up to a reality of which he
has no concept. He knows nothing about us. It may be that in his colorful
jacket, wide trousers, and hat with its band he reminds us of the wide-eyed
rustics who used to make Viennese audiences laugh. As wily provincials,
these rustics of course knew their way around, not perhaps in urban society
“comme il faut” but onstage, where they were never at a loss for either
information or an excuse. But Kaspar is still a stranger here and has no
companions. The theme of the play, then, is not the fast-moving adventures
of the comic character, which are happily resolved in the end, but the inner
and inward-looking story of the taming of a wild human being. The result,
however, is to cast a critical light on what the development of the outer plot
constantly implies in its specific and historical course: the transformation of
the unruly clowning into a proper Kasperl play, the attempt, in many ways a
hopeless one, to turn an individual who by ordinary standards is uncivilized
into a respectable citizen.*
We have to make do with conjectures about Kaspar’s previous life. The
novel by Jakob Wassermann tells us that “no one knew where he hailed
from,” and that he himself, being incapable of language, could give no

information about his origins.2 However, his unheralded, defenceless
presence signifies the living provocation of social resentment. We suspect
that the speechless creature, as yet entirely untaught, is in possession of a
secret of his own, if not actually in a state of paradisal bliss. And that, says
Nietzsche, perspicacious in such matters, “is hard on a man. He may ask the
animal: ‘Why do you just look at me instead of telling me about your
happiness?’ The animal wants to reply: ‘Because I always immediately
forget what I wanted to say’—but then it forgets even this answer and says
3
nothing.” It is rather like that with Kaspar and his prompters in the play.
They envy him the blankness of the life he represents, his ability—to quote
Nietzsche again—to be “totally unhistorical.”4 At the same time, this special
quality is the reason for Kaspar’s strangeness. Hofmannsthal has linked
similar conjectures with his concept of “pre-existence,” a state of
painlessness beyond trauma in which a barely perceptible happiness, which
is mere and simple existence, persists uninterrupted. Wassermann’s novel,
too, tries to present this state as something very different from the
deprivation of imprisonment. “He did not sense any changes in his own
physical condition,” says Wassermann of Hauser, “or wish for anything to be
different.”5 Kaspar’s placid existence is illustrated in the symbol of a “white
wooden horse … that mirrored his own existence darkly.… He did not talk
to it, not even in silent imagined exchanges, and although it stood on a board
6
that had wheels it never occurred to him to push it to and fro.” From such a
static existence, a life without a history in which one might acquire the art of
hearing “wood rotting over long distances” and in which “Caspar could
make out colours even in the dark,” he is released into the light of the stage,
a shocking and painful transition to surroundings that are qualitatively
entirely new, where the “originally prestabilized harmony” is lost and his
inner resources prove inadequate.7 Anthropological theory assumes that
exposure in a treeless situation where all escape upward was cut off led to
the invention of myths. Kafka’s ape, dragged into human society, expresses
very similar ideas in his “Report for an Academy.” It is the absence of any
way of escape that has forced him to become human himself. “I had always
had so many ways out, you see, and now I have none.”8 So the wild boy
Kaspar has no choice but to develop, except that in his case, as in the ape
Rotpeter’s, the myth does not have to be invented: it is provided for him by
his professional prompters. Their disembodied voices have little to do with
the optimistic educational theories of the eighteenth century and later,

according to which it might be hoped that Caspar Hauser would educate
himself to become a liberated, guiltless human being, a natural wonder. If
such experiments showed naïve idealism, the general approach to Kaspar
resulted only in an illusion of liberation, entirely adapted to existing
circumstances. An ego is formed until finally, as Hofmannsthal described it,
it slips into another identity, “like a dog, eerily silent and strange.”9
To Kaspar, the anonymous voices of the media to which he is constantly
exposed mean “alienation in the sense of a passive submission to invasion by
10
others.” Something in him cracks; he becomes vulnerable and begins to
learn. At first Kaspar’s reactions to the refractory nature of the inanimate
objects around him and his own incompetence as a human being are those of
a clown. His hands get stuck down the side of the sofa, the table drawer falls
out at his feet, he becomes entangled in a chair, a rocking chair tips over and
Kaspar runs away, terrified, for every new lesson is a new horror to him. A
clown merely performs an amusing act in the “tension between the serious
mastery of objects that has been learned and his own deliberate clumsiness,”
but to the uneducated Kaspar such acts cannot be foreseen and relate not so
much to the mastery of inanimate objects as to his own training.11 Handke
has written, of the circus, that the audience’s enthusiasm is never really free
“because the imminence of shame or horror is always present”; something
could easily go wrong with the act.12 “With a clown, however, the
misfortune that is so embarrassing in all other circus numbers is planned as
part of the act.… His accidents are not awkward but comic. Indeed, it is an
embarrassing sight if he does for once, unintentionally, succeed in mastering
inanimate objects. The sight of a clown who fails to fall over a stool or who
13
can sit down easily in an armchair … is embarrassing.” Kaspar’s
clumsiness, however, is far from intentional, and the accidents he suffers are
only very superficially comic. He soon learns to avoid them. But he has still
assimilated enough clownish behavior for us to be almost embarrassed by
his correct reactions as the action continues. What looks like progress is
really nothing but the gradual humiliation of a trained creature who, in
approaching the human average, begins to resemble an animal gone mad.
Kaspar’s éducation sentimentale is also his case history, and from it we
finally gain insight into the pathological connection which inevitably exists
between the possession of property and education. For do not things have
names only to help us to grasp them better, as if the blank spaces in the atlas
we have made for ourselves out of reality disappear only so that the colonial

empire of the mind may grow? “As a child,” Henny Porten remembers
during Ritt über den Bodensee (“The Ride Across Lake Constance”), “if I
wanted something, I always had to say what it was called first.”14 Kaspar
soon realizes that this is where the secret of mastering things lies; he
becomes eager for information so that he will gain a little more power.
Musil’s claim that knowledge is related to greed and represents a despicable
urge to hoard, as “the fundamental and favorite expression of capitalism,”
could be the critique of a development such as Kaspar’s once he understands
15
the point of learning. It is not that he makes a conscious choice between
naïveté and enlightenment, but the strange words that he uses in order to
master strange things force themselves on him like commands and latent
threats against which he cannot defend himself. Nor does he yet recognize
the voices of society as something different, something outside him; instead,
they echo within him as the part of himself that became strange to him when
he was cast up in this new, overbright environment. Social maxims and
reflections overwhelm him as compulsively as if they were his own
individual delusion. Consequently, he obeys them.
The merciless education of Kaspar obeys the laws of language. The reason
why the play could be described, says Handke, as “speech torture” is not just
that other people talk to Kaspar until he loses what might be called his sound
animal reason. More precisely, in this learning process, speech itself features
as an arsenal containing a cruel set of instruments. Kaspar’s very first
sentence helps him, as the prompters explain, “learn to divide time into time
before and time after uttering of the sentence.”16 Tension arises, and with it a
foretaste of the torture. Kaspar learns to hesitate as he speaks, and the voices
show him how that hesitation can make painful incisions where they do not
belong, separating the parts of a sentence: “The sentence doesn’t hurt you
yet, not one word. Does hurt you. Every word does. Hurt, but you don’t
know that that which hurts you is a sentence that. Sentence hurts you
because you don’t know that it is a sentence.”17 What the prompters
demonstrate through speech can be transferred, becomes an act of incision,
the vivisection of reality and ultimately of a human being. Within it, the
diffuse pain of being unaware becomes the keen torment of experience. In
the obsessive attempt to find a reason for the animation of life, a world of
images is divided into its anatomical components. This is the nature of
speech operating successfully. Its grammar can be perceived as a mechanical
system that gradually carves the crucial terms on the skin of the torture

victim, and the torture arises from the combination of its apparatus with the
organism. Kafka described the prerequisites for this process in his story “In
the Penal Colony,” and Nietzsche, in discussing mnemonic techniques in the
Genealogy of Morals, thought there was nothing more sinister in the
prehistory of mankind than the combination of pain and recollection to
construct a memory. But what is taken from the living substance of the
individual in the long process of his training to become an articulate, moral
human being adheres to the linguistic machine until in the end the parts
become interchangeable in function. Lars Gustafsson, who designed an
image of the grammatical machine, wonders whether the symbolical value of
machinery does not perhaps lie in the fact “that it reminds us of the
possibility that our own lives could be something simulated, in a sense
resembling the life of machines themselves.”18 A human being, then, is a
Stymphalian creature of metal screws and springs, stamping accepted
patterns out of the metal of communication, and speech is an apparatus run
out of control and beginning to lead a sinister life of its own. Model
sentences such as those suggested to Kaspar are reflexes of the cruel
treatment to which his sensory apparatus is submitted by its linguistic
shaping. “The door springs open. The skin springs open. The match burns.
The slap burns. The grass trembles. The fearful girl trembles. The slap in the
face smacks. The body smacks. The tongue licks. The flame licks. The saw
screeches. The torture victim screeches. The lark trills. The policeman trills.
19
The blood stops. The breath stops.” The prompters know this too. At the
beginning of the second part, when the injured Kaspar has split by simple
division into two contented entities, the prompters utter an apologia for the
process that initiates the candidate into a society where everything is regular.
“Intermittent smashing / of a stick / on your jug / is no balm / nor a reason /
to bewail the lack of law and order / this season / a sip of lye / in your mug /
or a prick / in the guts / or a stick / in the nuts / being wriggled about / or
something of that order /only pricklier / fearlessly / introduced in the ears /
so as to / get someone hopping / and pop in order / by all means / at your
command / but chiefly / without being / overly / fussy / over the means— /
that / is no reason / to lose any words / over the lack of order.”20
Kaspar is thus systematically socialized. He makes visible progress. But
then suddenly he finds himself in crisis. His identity is undermined by the
passing of time. “When I am, I was.”21 He formulates this problem of
shifting phases in the most confusing variations, constantly mixing up the

grammatically possible and the grammatically impossible, his reality and his
irritation constantly becoming confused. When he finally says, “I will have
become because I am,” we can no longer tell if he has it the wrong way
around or is simply expressing hopelessness.22 Kaspar, now uncertain of
himself, three times repeats the magical formula “I am the one I am.” But the
affirmation sounds wide of the mark. In its abstraction it does not offer
anything sufficient to counter Kaspar’s growing doubt of what he represents.
As if in alarm he stops rocking and cries, “Why are there so many black
worms flying about?” It is an image of the utmost distress. Kaspar is in
danger of regression. The stage darkens, and once more the prompters must
try persuasion. It grows light again, and they begin to speak. “You have
model sentences with which you can get through life.” The light grows
23
brighter. “You can learn and make yourself useful.” And the brighter it
becomes, the quieter Kaspar is; he is all right again, enlightened, ready for
the shock of confirmation, for the test of a total blackout, in which a
prompter tells him, “You’ve been cracked open.”24 This time the darkness of
the stage is not a fear that Kaspar already has but one that is instilled into
him. Only after a long moment does a voice suggest, in the darkness, “You
become sensitive to dirt.” When it is light again, Kaspar’s socialization
finally seems complete. His alter ego enters with a broom, sweeping the
stage. Kaspar is now his own matrix, with unlimited powers of reproduction.
More Kaspars appear, clones of his reformed person. But now Kaspar will
begin to suffer from this fact, from everything that is repeated, and thus not
least from himself. “I was proud of the first step I took, of the second step I
felt ashamed: I felt ashamed of everything that I repeated.”25 Only with
speech was it the other way around, for, says Kaspar, “I felt ashamed even of
the first sentence I uttered, whereas I no longer felt ashamed of the second
sentence.” Speech, as it were, had removed his shame, teaching him to
become accustomed to identities. The fact that he still remembers it is the
beginning of the story he tells of himself toward the end of the play. This
story is the clear signal that all is not yet right with him, for “an object is
26
orderly when you don’t first have to tell a story about it.” Kaspar’s
education thus seems to have failed. He remembers, but too well. He knows
not only about himself but about his origin and development, about his
indoctrination, the prelude to his despair.
In reflecting on the changes that have happened to him, Kaspar breaks out
of the role that he was given to play. His inquiries take him back to a point

when, entering paradise through the gateway of thought, he regains the
naïveté of his pre-existence. He remembers uttering his first sentence, and in
the nostalgia of such memories he encounters the unconscious perfection of
his lost self. “Then once I took a look into the open, where there was a very
green glow, and I said to the open: I want to be someone like somebody else
was once?—and with this sentence I wanted to ask the open why it was that
my feet were aching.”27 Sinking into such reminiscences, he gauges time,
seeks the darkness of his life, which is now almost stripped of any mystery,
until he comes upon things that are identical with his own reality, not just the
reality he has assimilated. He remembers the snow that stung his hand, the
landscape that “at that time was a brightly colored window shutter” and was
then like a colorful shopwindow, and a gloomy legacy of “candles and
bloodsuckers; ice and mosquitoes; horses and pus; hoarfrost and rats; eels
28
and sicklebills.” These images, retrieved and re-created from his pre-
existence, images in which Kaspar’s earlier life shows a relationship with
Sigismund’s in Hofmannsthal’s Der Turm, seem to him like authentic
documents of his being. Thanks to them he can say, “I still experienced
myself.” The training to which he has been subjected could not entirely
obliterate his memory of his beginnings. He can still go back behind what he
has learned. The wild metaphors he brings back from such excursions are, in
their disparate nature, like the “metaphors of a paranoia … a poetic protest
against the invasion of others.”29 The crystallization point of this sign of
intended rejection comes at those moments when, as Handke says in
Wunschloses Unglück (“A Sorrow Beyond Dreams”), “the utmost need to
communicate comes together with the ultimate speechlessness.”30 However,
where images escape that paralytic confrontation, they feature, being
impenetrable ciphers, as examples of broken rebellion. Their structure is that
of the myth in which fact and fiction are, so to speak, inseparably linked
together. And like that myth, they “involve the same sort of outrageous
distortion … all symbolism harbors the curse of mediacy; it is bound to
obscure what it seeks to reveal. Thus the sound of speech strives to ‘express’
subjective and objective happening, the ‘inner’ and the ‘outer’ world; but
what of this it can retain is not the life and individual fullness of existence,
31
but only a dead abbreviation of it.” Literature can transcend this dilemma
only by keeping faith with unsocial, banned language, and by learning to use
the opaque images of broken rebellion as a means of communication.

* The Kasperl play is the German version of a Punch and Judy show.
OceanofPDF.com

Between History and Natural History
ON THE LITERARY DESCRIPTION OF TOTAL DESTRUCTION
OceanofPDF.com

The trick of elimination is every expert’s defensive reflex.
STANISLAW LEM, IMAGINARY MAGNITUDE
I drove through ruined Cologne late at dusk, with terror of the world
and of men and of myself in my heart.
VICTOR GOLLANCZ, IN DARKEST GERMANY
To this day there is no adequate explanation of why the destruction of the
German cities toward the end of the Second World War was not (with those
few exceptions that prove the rule) taken as a subject for literary depiction
either then or later, although significant conclusions could certainly have
been drawn from this admittedly complex problem. It might, after all, have
been supposed that the air raids very methodically carried out over the years
and directly affecting large sections of the population of Germany, as well as
the radical social changes resulting from the destruction, would have been an
incitement to writers to set down something about such experiences. The
dearth of literary records from which anything might be learned of the extent
and consequences of the destruction which is so obvious to a later
generation, although those involved clearly felt no need to commemorate it,
is all the more remarkable because accounts of the development of West
German literature frequently speak of what they call the Trümmerliteratur
(the literature of the ruins). Heinrich Böll, for instance, says of that genre in
a book written in 1952: “And so we write of the war, of homecoming, of
what we had seen in the war and what we found on returning home: we write
1
of ruins.” The same author’s Frankfurter Vorlesungen (“Frankfurt
Lectures”) contains the comment “Where would 1945, that historic moment
in time, be without Eich and Celan, Borchert and Nossack, Kreuder,
Aichinger and Schnurre, Richter, Kolbenhoff, Schroers, Langgässer, Krolow,
Lenz, Schmidt, Andersch, Jens and Marie Luise von Kaschnitz?2 The
Germany of the years 1945–1954 would have vanished long ago had it not
found expression in the literature of the time.”3 One may feel a certain

sympathy for such statements, but they hardly offset the near
incontrovertible fact that the literature cited here, which is
sufficiently known to have dealt primarily with “personal matters” and the
private feelings of its protagonists, is of relatively slight value as a source of
information on the objective reality of the time, more particularly the
devastation of the German cities and the patterns of psychological and social
behavior affected by it. It is remarkable, to say the least, that up to Alexander
Kluge’s account of the air raid of April 8, 1945, on Halberstadt, published in
1977 as Number 2 in his series of Neue Geschichten (“New Stories”), there
was no literary work that to any degree filled up this lacuna in German
memory, which is surely more than coincidental, and that Hans Erich
Nossack and Hermann Kasack, the only writers who attempted any literary
account of the new historical factor of total destruction, embarked upon their
works in that vein while the war was still in progress, and sometimes even
anticipated actual events. In his reminiscences of Hermann Kasack, Nossack
writes: “At the end of 1942 or the beginning of 1943 I sent him thirty pages
of a prose work which after the end of the war was to become my story
Nekyia. Thereupon Kasack challenged me to a competition in prose. I didn’t
understand what he meant by that; only much later did it become clear to
me. We were both dealing with the same subject at the time, the destroyed or
dead city. Today it may seem that it was not too difficult to foresee the
destruction of our cities. But it is still remarkable that before the event two
writers were trying to take an objective view of the totally unreal kind of
reality in which we had to spend years at the time, and in which we
fundamentally still find ourselves, accepting it as the form of existence
allotted to us.”4
The way that literature reacted to the collective experience of the
destruction of whole tracts of human life and—as some of Nossack’s
writings anticipating the documentary style show—the way it could have
reacted will be illustrated here by Kasack’s novel Die Stadt hinter dem Strom
(“The City Beyond the River”) and Nossack’s Der Untergang (“The End”),
which was written in the summer of 1943.
Kasack’s novel, published in 1947 and one of the first “successes” of
postwar German literature, had almost no effect on the literary strategies
which were formed against the background of political and social restoration
5
in the late 1940s. The reason was probably that the book’s aesthetic and
moral aims largely corresponded to the ideas developed by the so-called

internal emigrants, and thus to the style of that time, which was already
obsolescent in the year of the novel’s publication. The determining feature of
Kasack’s work is the contradiction it presents between the utter hopelessness
of the present situation and an attempt to subject the remnants of a humanist
view of the world to a new if negative synthesis. In its concrete details, the
topography of the city beyond the river, in which “life, so to speak, is lived
underground,” is the topography of destruction.6 “Only the façades of the
buildings in the surrounding streets still stood, so that a sideways glance
7
through the rows of empty windows gave a view of the sky.” And it could
be argued that the account of the “lifeless life” of the people in the limbo of
this twilight kingdom was also inspired by the real economic and social
situation between 1943 and 1947.8 There are no vehicles anywhere, and
pedestrians walk the ruined streets apathetically, “as if they no longer felt the
bleak nature of their surroundings.”9 Others “could be seen in the ruined
dwellings, now deprived of their purpose, searching for buried remnants of
household goods, here salvaging a bit of tin or wire from the rubble, there
picking up a few splinters of wood and stowing them in the bags they wore
10
slung around them, which resembled botanical specimen tins.” There is a
sparse assortment of junk for sale in the roofless shops: “Here a few jackets
and trousers, belts with silver buckles, ties and brightly colored scarves were
laid out, there a collection of shoes and boots of all kinds, often in very poor
condition. Elsewhere hangers bore crumpled suits in various sizes, old-
fashioned rustic smocks and jackets, along with darned stockings, socks and
shirts, hats and hairnets, all on sale and jumbled up together.”11 However,
the lowered standard of living and reduced economic conditions that are
evident as the empirical foundations of the narrative in such passages are not
the central constituents of Kasack’s novel, which by and large mythologizes
the reality as it was or could be experienced. But the critical potential of the
type of fiction developed by Kasack, which is concerned with the complex
insight that even those who survive collective catastrophes have already
experienced their death, is not realized on the level of myth in his narrative
discourse; instead, and in defiance of the sobriety of his prose style, Kasack
aims to present a skillful irrationalization of the life that has been destroyed.
The air raids which caused the destruction of the city appear, in a pseudo-
epic style reminiscent of Döblin, as transreal entities. “As if at the prompting
of Indra, whose cruelty in destruction surpasses the demonic powers, they
rose, the teeming messengers of death, to destroy the halls and houses of the

great cities in murderous wars, a hundred times stronger than ever before,
striking like the apocalypse.”12 Green-masked figures, members of a secret
sect who give off a stale odor of gas and may be meant to symbolize
murdered concentration camp victims, are introduced (with allegorical
exaggeration) in dispute with the bogeymen of power who, blown up to
more than life size, proclaim a blasphemous dominion, until they collapse in
on themselves, empty husks in uniform, leaving behind a diabolical stench.
In the closing passages of the novel, an attempt to make sense of the
senseless is added to this mise-en-scène, which is almost worthy of
Syberberg and owes its existence to the most dubious aspects of
Expressionist fantasy. A venerable Master Mage sets out the complex
preliminary doctrines of a combination of western philosophy and eastern
wisdom. “The Master Mage indicated that for some time the thirty-three
initiates had been concentrating their forces on opening up and extending the
region of Asia, so long cut off, for reincarnations, and they now seemed to
be intensifying their efforts by including the West too as an area for the
resurrection of mind and body. This exchange of Asiatic and European ideas,
hitherto only a gradual and sporadic process, was clearly perceptible in a
13
series of phenomena.”
In the course of further pronouncements by the Mage, Kasack’s alter ego
is brought to realize that millions must die in this wholesale operation “to
make room for those surging forward to be reborn. A vast number of people
were called away prematurely, so that they could rise again when the time
came as a growing crop, apocryphally reborn in a living space previously
inaccessible to them.”14 The choice of words and terminology in such
passages, speaking of the opening up “of the region of Asia, so long cut off,”
of the benefit of “European ideas,” and of “living space [Lebensraum]
previously inaccessible” shows with alarming clarity the degree to which
philosophical speculation bound to the style of the time subverts its good
intentions even in the attempt at synthesis. The thesis frequently held by the
“internal emigrants” that genuine literature had employed a secret language
under the totalitarian regime is thus proved true, in this as in other cases,
only insofar as its own code accidentally happened to coincide with Fascist
style and diction.15 The vision of a new educational field proposed by
Kasack, as it also was by Hermann Hesse and Ernst Jünger, makes little
difference to that fact, for it too is only a distortion of the bourgeois ideal of
an association of the elect operating outside and above the state, an ideal

which found its ultimate corruption and perfection in the officially ordained
Fascist elites. When it seems to the archivist at the end of his story, then, “as
if a sign formed in the place that the departed spirit had touched with its
finger, a small stain, a final rune of fate,” we are looking at an example that
can hardly be surpassed of the tendency developing in Kasack’s work,
against his narrative intention, to bury the ruins of the time under the lumber
of an equally ruined culture once again.16
Even Hans Erich Nossack’s description of the destruction of Hamburg,
Der Untergang, which, as we shall see, gives a much more exact account of
the real features of a collective catastrophe, lapses here and there into the
mythologizing approach to extreme social circumstances which had become
almost habitual since the time of the First World War, when realism gave up
the ghost. Here too the writer resorts to the arsenal of the apocalypse,
speaking of peaceful trees transformed in the beam of searchlights into black
wolves “leaping greedily at the bleeding crescent moon,” and of infinity
blowing at its will through the shattered windows, sanctifying the human
17
countenance “as the place of transition for the eternal.” Nowhere in
Nossack, however, does this fateful rhetoric, obstructing our view of the
technical enterprise of destruction, degenerate to the point where he
compromises himself ideologically as a writer. It is undeniably to his credit
that in his thinking and in the writing of this piece of prose, which in many
respects is exceptional, he largely resists the style of the time. The view of
an immemorial city of the dead which he presents is thus much closer to
reality and has a value qualitatively different from the account of the same
theme in Kasack’s novel.
I saw the faces of those standing beside me in the vehicle as we drove
down the broad road over the Veddel to the Elbe bridge. We were like a
tourist party; all we needed was a loudspeaker and the explanatory
chatter of a guide. And we were all at a loss, and could not take in the
strangeness. Where once your eyes met the walls of buildings, a silent
plain now extended to infinity. Was it a cemetery? But what beings had
buried their dead there and then put chimneys on the graves? Nothing
grew there but the chimneys emerging from the ground like
monuments, like dolmens or admonitory fingers. Did the dead lying
below them breathe the blue ether through those chimneys? And where,
among this strange undergrowth, an empty façade hung in the air like a

triumphal arch, was it the resting place of one of their princes or
heroes? Or was it the remnant of an aqueduct of the ancient Roman
kind? Or was all this just the stage set for a fantastic opera?18
The monumental theatrical scene of a ruined city presented to an observer
passing by reflects something of Elias Canetti’s later comment on Speer’s
architectural plans: for all their evocation of eternity and their enormous
size, their design contained within itself the idea of a style of building that
revealed all its grandiose aspirations only in a state of destruction. The
curious sense of exaltation that sometimes seems to overcome Nossack at
the sight of the devastation in his native city is very appropriate to that
observation. Only from its ruins does the end of the Thousand Year Reich
that intended to usurp the future become conceivable. The emotional conflict
arising from the fact that total destruction coincided with his personal
liberation from an apparently hopeless situation was not, however,
something that Nossack could reduce to a common denominator. In view of
the utter catastrophe, there seems to be something scandalous about the
“feeling of happiness” that he experiences, on the drive “toward the dead
city,” as something “true and imperative,” the need “to cry out rejoicing:
now, at last, real life begins,” and Nossack can justify it only by cultivating
19
an awareness of shared guilt and responsibility. These circumstances also
made it impossible for him to let his mind dwell on the agents of the
destruction. Nossack speaks of a deeper insight that forbade him “to think of
an enemy who had done all this; he too was at most a tool of inscrutable
powers that wanted to destroy us.”20 Like Serenus Zeitblom in his cell in
Freising, Nossack feels that the strategy of the Allied air forces was the work
of divine justice. Nor is this process of revenge solely a matter of retribution
visited on the nation responsible for the Fascist regime; it is also concerned
with the need for atonement felt by the individual, in this case the author,
who has long yearned to see the city destroyed. “In all earlier raids I wished
clearly: let it be a very bad one! I felt it so very clearly that I might almost
say I cried that wish aloud to heaven. It was not courage but curiosity to see
if my wish would be granted that never let me go down to the cellar but held
me spellbound on the apartment balcony.”21 “And if it is the case,” writes
Nossack in another passage, “that I called down the city’s fate on it to force
my own fate to its moment of decision, then I must also stand up and confess
22
myself guilty of its fall.” Such explorations of the conscience arise from

the scruples of the survivors, their sense of shame at “not being among the
victims,” and were then to feature among the central moral dimensions of
West German literature.23 Reflections on the guilt of survival were probably
presented most cogently by Elias Canetti, Peter Weiss, and Wolfgang
Hildesheimer, which suggests that not much might have come of the process
known in Germany as “coming to terms with the past” but for the
24
contribution made by writers of Jewish origin. There is further evidence in
the fact that in the years following the fall of the Third Reich, the sense of
guilt expressed by Nossack was initially transformed into an existential
philosophy which still nurtured a belief in fate and endeavored to face “the
void … with composure,” a philosophy with a concept embracing personal
failure, in which Nossack also sees “the appropriate way of death for us.”25
The crux of this resolution of the opposition between destruction and
liberation lies in the fact that it upholds the promises of Death, which itself
appears at the end of Nossack’s text as an allegorical figure coming “through
the arch of the old gateway every afternoon,” enticing children out to play.26
The image of death as a companion of the writer’s imagination is a metaphor
for the mourning in which the population as a whole could not afford to
indulge, as Alexander and Margarete Mitscherlich explain in their famous
essay on the psychological disposition of the German nation after the
catastrophe—for “the mother of the family still has a great deal of work, she
does the laundry, she cooks, and she must go down to the cellar from time to
27
time to fetch coal.” The ironic detachment here, complementing the
melancholy of Nossack’s narrative, demolishes the claim to the superior
significance of death that pervades Kasack’s novel, and does not deny those
who managed to survive the right to a secular continuation of their existence.
Although in some of its amplifications Nossack’s text goes beyond the
plain facts of what happened, veering into personal confession and
mythically allegorical structures, it may be understood in its entirety as a
deliberate attempt to give as neutral as possible an account of an experience
exceeding anything in the artistic imagination. In an essay of 1961 where
Nossack speaks of the influences on his literary work, he writes that after
reading Stendhal he was anxious to express himself “as plainly as possible,
without well-crafted adjectives, high-flown images or bluff, more like
someone writing a letter in almost everyday jargon.”28 This stylistic
principle proves its worth in his depiction of the ruined city, in that it does
not allow traditional literary methods, which tend to homogenize collective

and personal catastrophes; Mann’s novel Dr. Faustus is the contemporary
paradigm. In direct contrast to the traditional approach to writing fiction,
Nossack experiments with the prosaic genre of the report, the documentary
account, the investigation, to make room for the historical contingency that
breaks the mold of the culture of the novel. Where Kasack’s book about the
city beyond the river, which in its opening passages also tries to maintain the
neutrality of an impersonal report, very soon lapses into features like those
of fiction, Nossack manages to preserve, over long tracts of his work, the
documentary tone that set an example for the later development of West
German literature. If familiarity with social and cultural circumstances is the
crucial prerequisite for both writing and reading novels, then the attitude of
an agency that simply presents a report conveys a sense of reality that
appears foreign. That is evident in Nossack’s prose work Bericht eines
fremden Wesens über die Menschen (“Account of Mankind by a Strange
Creature”), which is also associated with the themes described above and
ascribes to the narrator the “strangeness” in the title, but asks the reader
whether the reason for the strangeness is not a mutation in mankind that
makes the author an anachronistic figure. The wide distance between the
subject and object of the narrative process implies something like the
perspective of natural history, in which destruction and the tentative forms of
new life that it generates act like biological experiments in which the species
is concerned “to break its mold and abjure the name of man.”29 As the first
sentence of his account tells us, Nossack witnesses the fall of Hamburg as a
spectator. Shortly before the air raid on the city of July 21, 1943, he had
gone to spend a few days in a village on the Lüneburg Heath fifteen
kilometers south of its outskirts. The timelessness of the landscape reminds
him “that we come from a fairy-tale and shall return to a fairy-tale again,”
which in the circumstances suggests not so much the idylls of Hermann Löns
(the poet of that area) as the precarious achievements of the technological
civilization that was shortly to return large parts of the population to the
30
hunter-gatherer stage of development. From the heath, the approaching
destruction of the city appears like a natural spectacle. Sirens howl “like cats
somewhere in distant villages,” the sound of the bomber squadrons coming
in hovers in the air “between the clear constellations and the dark earth,” the
shapes like “fir trees” dropping from the sky resemble “red-hot drops of
metal flowing” down on the city, until they later disappear in a cloud of
smoke, “lit red from below by the fire.”31 The scene thus suggested, still

containing aestheticized elements, already shows that a “description” of the
catastrophe from its periphery rather than its center is possible. If Nossack’s
text conveys only a reflection of the inferno, his own real evidence begins
when the raid is over and the extent of the destruction is gradually revealed
to him. Even before his return to Hamburg, he is amazed by the “constant
coming and going” that begins with the firemen hurrying to the city’s aid
from nearby towns, and continues “on all the streets of the region
around … by day and by night” during the throng’s “flight from Hamburg,
no one knew where. It was a river for which there was no bed; almost
silently but inexorably deluging everything, carrying disquiet along little
rivulets and into the most remote villages. Sometimes fugitives thought they
could cling to a branch and so get a footing on the bank, but only for a few
days or hours, and then they threw themselves back into the torrent to let it
carry them on. None of them knew that they carried restlessness with them
like a sickness, and everything it touched lost its firm foundation.”32 Later
Nossack comments on his impression that the journeying of the countless
throng of people who were daily on the move was by no means necessary
“to salvage something or keep an eye open for relatives.… Yet I would not
like to call it mere curiosity. People simply had no central point … and
33
everyone was afraid of missing something.” The aimlessly panic-stricken
conduct of the population reported here by Nossack corresponds to no social
norms and can be understood only as a biological reflex set off by the
destruction. Victor Gollancz, who in the autumn of 1945 visited several
cities in the British-occupied zone, including Hamburg, in order to make
firsthand reports which would convince the British public of the necessity of
rendering humanitarian aid, notes the same phenomenon. He describes a
visit to the Jahn Gymnastics Hall, “where mothers and children were
spending the night. They were units in that homeless crowd that goes milling
about Germany ‘to find relatives,’ they said, but really, or mainly, I was told,
because a restlessness has come over them that just won’t let them settle
down.”34 The extreme restlessness and mobility to which Gollancz testifies
were the reactions of a species seeing itself cut off from its ways of escape,
which biologically speaking always lay ahead of it, and as preconscious
experience those reactions affected the new social dynamic developing out
of the destruction. Böll, who understood the constant movement associated
with the war as a very specific aspect of human misfortune, with peacefully
settled populations returning to the nomadic way of life, ascribes the postwar

West German liking for speed, and the passion for travel which sends people
out of the country every year in great droves, to the experiences of a
historical period when whole social groups were removed from the last
secure factor in their lives, the places where they lived.35 Literature tells us
very little more about the archaic behavior that broke through in this way.
Nossack does indicate that “the usual disguises” of civilization fell away as
if of their own accord, and “greed and fear showed themselves naked and
36
unashamed.” The reversion of human life to the primitive, starting with the
fact that, as Böll remembered later, “this state began with a nation
rummaging in the trash,” is a sign that collective catastrophe marks the point
where history threatens to revert to natural history.37 In the midst of the
ruined civilization, what life is left assembles to begin at the beginning again
in a different time. Nossack notes how unsurprising it seems “that people
had lit small fires in the open, as if they were in the jungle, and were cooking
their food or boiling up their laundry on those fires.”38 There is not much
comfort, however, in the fact that in Nossack’s account the city, now reduced
to a desert of stone, soon begins to stir, that trodden paths appear across the
rubble, linking up—as Kluge remarks—“to a faint extent with earlier
networks of paths,” for it is not yet certain whether the surviving remnants of
the population will emerge from this regressive phase of evolution as the
dominant species, or whether that species will be the rats or the flies
39
swarming everywhere in the city, instead. The revulsion at this new life, at
the “horror teeming under the stone of culture” to which Nossack gives
expression in one of the most terrible passages of his text, is a pendant to the
fear that the inorganic destruction of life by the firestorm which (according
to Walter Benjamin’s distinction between bloody and nonbloody violence)
might yet be reconcilable with the idea of divine justice, will be followed by
organic decomposition caused by flies and rats40 to which in Kasack’s book,
too, the river drawing the line between life and death “forms no barrier.”41
Writing from such an extreme situation required a redefinition of the
author’s moral position, which for Nossack can be justified only by the
necessity of rendering accounts or, as Kasack puts it, the need “to note
42
certain procedures and phenomena before they fall into oblivion.” In such
conditions writing becomes an imperative that dispenses with artifice in the
interests of truth, and turns to a “dispassionate kind of speech,” reporting
impersonally as if describing “a terrible event from some prehistoric time.”43

In an essay on the diary of Dr. Hachiya from Hiroshima, Elias Canetti asks
what it means to survive such a vast catastrophe, and says that the answer
can be gauged only from a text which, like Hachiya’s observations, is
notable for precision and responsibility. “If there were any point,” writes
Canetti, “in wondering what form of literature is essential to a thinking,
seeing human being today, then it is this.”44 The ideal of truth contained in
the form of an entirely unpretentious report proves to be the irreversible
foundation of all literary effort. It crystallizes resistance to the human faculty
of suppressing any memories that might in some way be an obstacle to the
continuance of life. The outcast, says Nossack, “dared not look back, since
45
there was nothing behind him but fire.” For that very reason, however,
memory and the passing on of the objective information it retains must be
delegated to those who are ready to live with the risk of remembering. It is a
risk because, as the following parable by Nossack shows, those in whom
memory lives on bring down upon themselves the wrath of others who can
continue to live only by forgetting. He writes of survivors sitting around the
fire one night: “Then one man spoke in his dream. No one understood what
he was saying. But they were all uneasy, they rose, they left the fire, they
listened fearfully to the cold dark around them. They kicked the dreaming
man, and he woke. ‘I have been dreaming. I must tell you what I dreamed. I
was back with what lies behind us.’ And he sang a song. The fire burned low.
The women began to weep. ‘I confess, we were human beings!’ Then the
men said to each other, ‘If it was as he dreamed we would freeze to death.
Let us kill him!’ And they killed him. Then the fire burned hot again, and
everyone was content.”46
The reason for the murder of memory lies in the fear that Orpheus’ love
for Eurydice might, as Nossack puts it in another passage, turn to a passion
for the goddess of death; it knows nothing of the positive potential of
melancholy.47 But if it is true that “the step from mourning to being
comforted is not the greatest step but the smallest,” then the proof is in that
passage of Nossack’s account where he remembers the truly infernal death
of a group of people who burned in a bombproof shelter because the doors
48
had jammed and coal stored in the rooms next to it caught fire. “They had
all fled from the hot walls to the middle of the cellar. They were found there
crowded together, bloated with the heat.”49 The laconic comment reminds us
of the Homeric lines about the fate of the hanged maids: “So the women’s
heads were trapped in a line, / nooses yanking their necks up, one by one / so

all might die a pitiful, ghastly death … / they kicked up heels for a little—
not for long.”50 The comfort of language evoking pity takes the reader, in
Nossack’s text, in very concrete terms straight from the horror of that coal
cellar into the following passage about the convent garden. “We had heard
the Brandenburg concertos there in April. And a blind woman singer
performed; she sang: Die schwere Leidenszeit beginnt nun abermals—‘The
Time of Suffering Now Begins Once More.’ Simple and self-assured, she
leaned against the harpsichord, and her unseeing eyes looked past those
trivialities for which we already feared, past them and perhaps to the place
51
where we now stood, with nothing but a sea of stones around us.” Here
again, of course, we have a construction—a metaphysical construction—
placed on the meaning. But the way in which Nossack puts his hope in the
will to tell the truth, and helps to overcome the tension between two poles by
his unemotive style, may justify such a conjecture.
Comparison of Kasack’s novel with Nossack’s factual account also shows
that an attempt to write a literary account of collective catastrophes
inevitably, if it is to claim validity, breaks out of the novel form that owes its
allegiance to bourgeois concepts. At the time when these works were
produced the implications for the technique of writing could not yet be
foreseen, but they became increasingly clear as West German literature
absorbed the debacle of recent history. Consequently, Alexander Kluge’s
highly complex and at first sight heterogeneous book Neue Geschichten.
Hefte 1–18 (“New Stories. Nos. 1–18”), published in 1977, resists the
temptation to integrate that is perpetuated in traditional literary forms by
presenting the preliminary collection and organization of textual and
pictorial material, both historical and fictional, straight from the author’s
notebooks, less to make any claim for the work than as an example of his
literary method. If this procedure undermines the traditional idea of a
creative writer bringing order to the discrepancies in the wide field of reality
by arranging them in his own version, that does not invalidate his subjective
involvement and commitment, the point of departure of all imaginative
effort. Indeed, the second of the “new stories,” describing the air raid of
April 8, 1945, on Halberstadt, is a model in this respect, showing how
personal involvement in collective experience, a crucial feature of Nossack’s
writing too, can be made at least a heuristically meaningful concept through

analytic historical investigations, relating it to immediately preceding events
and later developments, to the present, and to possible future perspectives.
Kluge, who grew up in Halberstadt, was thirteen years old at the time of the
air raid. “When a high-explosive bomb drops you notice it,” he says in his
introduction to the stories, adding, “On April 8, 1945, something of that kind
fell ten metres away from me.”52 Nowhere else in the text does the author
refer directly to himself. The tone of his account of the destruction of his
native town is one of research into the past; the traumatically shocking
experiences to which those affected reacted with complex processes of
amnesiac suppression are brought into a present reality shaped by that buried
history. In precisely the opposite way from Nossack’s, Kluge’s retrospective
presentation of what happened follows not what the author saw with his own
eyes, or what he may still remember of it, but events peripheral to his own
existence past and present. For the aim of the text as a whole, as we shall
see, depends on the fact that experience in any real sense was actually
impossible in view of the overwhelming speed and totality of the
destruction; it could be acquired only indirectly, by learning about it later.
Kluge’s literary record of the air raid on Halberstadt is also a model of its
kind from another objective viewpoint, where it studies the question of the
“meaning” behind the methodical destruction of whole cities, which authors
like Kasack and Nossack either omit for lack of information and out of a
sense of personal guilt, or endow with mystical significance as divine justice
and long overdue punishment. If the strategy of the area bombing of as many
German cities as possible could not be justified by military objectives, which
can hardly be denied today, then, as Kluge’s book shows, the special case of
the horrible devastation of a medium-sized town, of no importance either
strategically or to the war economy, must raise very serious questions about
the factors determining the dynamic of technological warfare. Kluge’s
account contains an interview with a high-ranking staff officer by a
correspondent for the Neue Zürcher Zeitung. Both the officer and the
journalist flew with the raid as observers. The section of the interview
quoted by Kluge deals primarily with the question of “moral bombing,”
which Brigadier General Williams explains by reference to the official
doctrine on which the air raids were based. When asked, “Do you bomb for
moral reasons or are you bombing the enemy’s morale?” he replies, “We are
bombing the enemy’s morale. The population’s will to resist must be broken

by the destruction of their city.” When pressed further, however, he admits
that morale does not seem to be affected by the bombs. “Obviously morale is
not located in the head or here [he points to his solar plexus] but somewhere
among the individuals or populations of the cities concerned. We have
investigated that, and it’s known to the staff.… Obviously it’s not in the head
or the heart, and that makes sense anyway, since people who have been
killed by the bombs aren’t thinking or feeling anything. And people who
escape a raid like that in spite of our best efforts clearly don’t take their
impressions of the disaster with them. They take all the luggage they can,
but they seem to leave behind their instant impressions of the raid itself.”53
While Nossack offers us no conclusions about the motives and reasons for
the act of destruction, Kluge, both here and in his book on Stalingrad, tries to
account for the organizational structure of such a disaster, showing how even
when the facts have become clearer the catastrophe continues on its old
course because of administrative apathy, and there is no chance of raising the
difficult question of ethical responsibility.
Kluge’s account begins by showing the total inadequacy of all those modes
of behavior socially preprogrammed into us in the face of a catastrophe
which is irrevocably unfolding. Frau Schrader, an employee of long standing
at the Capitol cinema in Halberstadt, finds the usual course of the Sunday
program—it has been maintained for years, and the movie showing today,
April 8, is an Ucicky film starring Wessely, Petersen, and Hörbiger—
*
disrupted by the prior claims of a program of destruction. Her panic-
stricken attempts to create some kind of order and perhaps clear up the
rubble in time for the two o’clock matinée tellingly illustrate the extreme
discrepancy between the active and passive fields of action involved in the
catastrophe, leading the writer and his readers to the quasi-humorous
observation that “the devastation of the right-hand side of the
auditorium … [had] no meaningful or dramaturgical connection with the
film being screened.”54 There is similar irrationality in the description of a
troop of soldiers sent as an emergency force to dig up and sort out “100
corpses, some of them badly mutilated, partly from the ground, partly from
visible depressions in it that had once been part of a shelter,” with no idea of
the purpose of “this operation” in the present circumstances.55 The unknown
photographer intercepted by a military patrol who claims that he wants “to

record the burning city, his own home town, in its hour of misfortune,”
resembles Frau Schrader in following his professional instincts.56 The only
reason why his declared intention of recording the very end is not absurd is
that the pictures he took, which Kluge added to his text and numbered 1 to 6,
have survived, as he could hardly have expected at the time. The women on
watch in the tower, Frau Arnold and Frau Zacke, equipped with folding
chairs, torches, thermos flasks, packets of sandwiches, binoculars, and radio
sets, are still dutifully reporting as the tower itself seems to move beneath
them and its wooden cladding begins to burn. Frau Arnold dies under a
mountain of rubble with a bell on top of it, while Frau Zacke lies for hours
with a broken thigh until she is rescued by people fleeing from the buildings
on the Martiniplan. Twelve minutes after the air raid warning, a wedding
party in the inn Zum Ross is buried, together with all its social differences
and animosities—the bridegroom was “from a prosperous family in
57
Cologne,” his bride from Halberstadt, “from the lower town.” These and
many of the other stories making up the text show how, even in the middle
of the catastrophe, individuals and groups were still unable to assess the real
degree of danger and deviate from their usual socially dictated roles. Since,
as Kluge points out, normal time and “the sensory experience of time” were
at odds with each other, those affected “could not have devised practicable
emergency measures … except with tomorrow’s brains.”58 This divergence,
for which “tomorrow’s brains” can never compensate, proves Brecht’s
dictum that human beings learn as much from catastrophes as laboratory
rabbits learn about biology, which in turn shows that the autonomy of
mankind in the face of the real or potential destruction that it has caused is
no greater in the history of the species than the autonomy of the animal in
the scientist’s cage, a circumstance that enables us to see why the speaking
and thinking machines described by Stanislaw Lem wonder if human beings
can actually think or are merely simulating that activity, and drawing their
own self-image from it.59
Although it seems impossible, as a result of the socially and naturally
determined human capacity to learn from experience, for the species to
escape catastrophes generated by itself except purely by chance, studying the
conditions in which destruction took place after the event is not pointless.
Instead, the retrospective learning process—and this is the raison d’être of

Kluge’s account, compiled thirty years after the incidents he describes—is
the only way of deflecting human wishful thinking toward anticipation of a
future not already governed by the fears arising from suppressed experience.
The primary school teacher Gerda Baethe, a character in Kluge’s text, has
similar ideas. It is true, the author comments, that to implement a “strategy
from below” such as Gerda has in mind would have required “seventy
thousand determined schoolteachers, all like her, each of them teaching hard
for twenty years from 1918 onward, in every country that had fought in the
war.”60 Despite the ironic style, the prospect suggested here of an alternative
historical outcome, possible in certain circumstances, is a serious call to
work for the future in defiance of all calculations of probability. Central to
Kluge’s detailed description of the social organization of disaster, which is
preprogrammed by the ever recurrent and ever intensifying mistakes of
history, is the idea that a proper understanding of the catastrophes we are
always setting off is the first prerequisite for the social organization of
happiness. However, it is difficult to dismiss the idea that the systematic
destruction Kluge sees arising from the development of the means and
modes of industrial production hardly seems to justify the abstract principle
of hope. The construction of the air war strategy in all its monstrous
complexity, the transformation of bomber crews into professionals, “trained
administrators of war in the air,” the necessity of countering, as far as
possible, any personal perceptions they might have such as “the neat and
tidy fields below them, or any confusion of the sight of urban streets and
squares with impressions of home,” and of overcoming the psychological
problem of keeping the crews interested in their tasks despite the abstract
nature of their function, the problems of conducting an orderly cycle of
operations involving “200 medium-sized industrial plants” flying toward a
city, the technology ensuring that the bombs would cause large-scale fires
and firestorms—all these factors, which Kluge studies from the organizers’
viewpoint, show that so much intelligence, capital, and labor went into the
planning of such destruction that, under the pressure of all the accumulated
61
potential, it had to happen in the end. The central point of Kluge’s
comments is to be found in a 1952 interview between the Halberstadt
journalist Kunzert, who had gone west with the British troops in 1945, and
Brigadier Frederick L. Anderson of the U.S. Eighth Army Air Force. In this
interview Anderson tries, with some patience, to answer what, from the
professional military viewpoint, is the naïve question of whether hoisting a

white flag made from six sheets from the towers of St. Martin’s church in
good time might have prevented the bombing of the city. His comments,
initially dealing with military logistics, culminate in a statement illustrating
the notorious irrationality to which rational argument can lead. He points out
that the bombs they had brought were, after all, “expensive items.” “In
practice, they couldn’t have been dropped over mountains or open country
after so much labor had gone into making them at home.”62 The result of the
prior claims of productivity, from which, with the best will in the world,
neither responsible individuals nor groups could dissociate themselves, is the
ruined city laid out before us in one of the photographs included in Kluge’s
text. The caption he gave it is from Marx: “We see how the history of
industry and the now objective existence of industry have become the open
book of the human consciousness, human psychology perceived in sensory
terms.…” (Kluge’s italics).
The reconstruction that Kluge was thus able to make of the disaster, in far
more detail than the summary of it given here, can be likened to the
revelation of the rational structure of something experienced by millions of
human beings as an irrational blow of fate. It almost seems as if Kluge were
responding to the question put by the allegorical figure of Death in
Nossack’s Interview mit dem Tode (“Interview with Death”) to his
interlocutor: “If you like, you can see how I go about my business. There’s
no secret to it. The fact that there is no secret is the point. Do you understand
63
me?” Death, introduced to us in this text as a suave entrepreneur, explains
to his listener, with the same ironic patience as is evident in Brigadier
Anderson’s attitude, that fundamentally everything is just a question of
organization, and organization manifested not merely in the collective
catastrophe but in all areas of daily life, so that to find out its secret all you
need to do is visit a tax office or some similar civil service department. In
Kluge’s work, this very link between the vast extent of the destruction
“produced” by human beings and the realities we experience daily is the
point upon which the author’s didactic intention turns. Kluge reminds us all
the time, and in every nuance of his complex linguistic montages, that
merely maintaining a critical dialectic between past and present can lead to a
learning process which is not fated in advance to come to a “mortal
conclusion.” The texts with which Kluge seeks to promote this aim

correspond, as Andrew Bowie has pointed out, neither to the pattern of
retrospective historiography nor to the fictional story, nor do they try to offer
a philosophy of history.64 Instead, they are a form of reflection on all these
methods of ours for understanding the world. Kluge’s art, to use the term in
another way here, consists in using details to illustrate the main current of
the dismal course so far taken by history. For instance, there is his mention
of the fallen trees in the Halberstadt town park, “where silk-moth caterpillars
had lived when they were planted in the eighteenth century,” and the
following passage: “(Number 9 Domgang) In the windows stood a selection
of tin soldiers, which had fallen over immediately after the raid, the rest of
them being packed away in boxes stored in cupboards, 12,400 men in all,
Ney’s Third Corps as they desperately advanced through the Russian winter
toward the eastern stragglers of the Grande Armée. They were put out on
display once a year, during Advent. Only Herr Gramert himself could
arrange his troop of soldiers in their correct order. In his terrified flight,
leaving his beloved soldiers, he has been struck on the head by a burning
beam, and can form no further plans. The apartment at Number 9 Domgang,
with all its marks of Gramert’s personal style, lies quiet and intact for
another two hours, except that it grows hotter and hotter during the
afternoon. Around five o’clock it catches fire and so do the tin soldiers, who
65
melt into lumps of metal in their boxes.”
A briefer didactic fable than this could hardly be written. Kluge’s way of
providing his documentary material with vectors through his presentation of
it transfers what he quotes into the context of our own present. Kluge “does
not allow the data to stand merely as an account of a past catastrophe,”
writes Andrew Bowie; “the most unmediated document … loses its
unmediated character via the processes of reflection the text sets up. History
is no longer the past but also the present in which the reader must act.”66 The
information that Kluge’s style thus imparts to readers about the concrete
circumstances of their present existence, and possible prospects for the
future, marks him out as an author who, on the perimeter of a civilization to
all appearances intent on its own end, is working to revive the collective
memory of his contemporaries who “with the obviously inborn desire for
narrative, [have] lost the psychological power to remember even within the
destroyed city itself.”67 It seems likely that only his preoccupation with this
didactic business enables him to resist the temptation to offer an
interpretation of recent historical events purely in terms of natural history,

just as elements of the science fiction genre in which readers know all along
what the end will be appear again and again in his work. Instead, he
interprets history in a way rather like, for instance, Stanislaw Lem’s: as the
catastrophic consequence of an anthropogenesis based from the first on
evolutionary mistakes, a consequence that has long been foreshadowed by
the complex physiology of human beings, the development of their
hypertrophied minds, and their technological methods of production.
* A film by the director Gustav Ucicky, starring actors Paula Wessely,
Peter Peterson, and Attila Hörbiger. The film was called Heimkehr
(Homecoming).
OceanofPDF.com

Constructs of Mourning
GÜNTER GRASS AND WOLFGANG HILDESHEIMER
OceanofPDF.com

OceanofPDF.com

I. THE INABILITY TO MOURN:
DEFICIENCIES IN POSTWAR LITERATURE
And if the burthen of Isaac were sufficient for an holocaust, a man may
carry his owne pyre.
SIR THOMAS BROWNE, HYDRIOTAPHIA. URNE-BURIAL; OR, A BRIEF DISCOURSE
OF THE SEPULCHRALL URNES LATELY FOUND IN NORFOLK (LONDON, 1658)
Alexander and Margarete Mitscherlich’s theory of “the inability to mourn,”
first formulated in 1967, has since proved—although statistically this can
hardly be verified—to be one of the clearest explanations given for the
mental disposition of postwar society in West Germany.1 The absence of
“reactions of mourning after a national catastrophe of vast extent,” the
“striking paralysis of feeling which was the response to the mountains of
corpses in the concentration camps, the disappearance of the German
armies into imprisonment, the news of the murder of millions of Jews,
Poles and Russians, and political opponents from the ranks of the German
people themselves,” left negative impressions on the internal life of the new
society, with consequences that can be properly understood only now, seen
in the more distant retrospect of, say, the films of Fassbinder and Kluge.
The Mitscherlichs’ theory of the distorted mental attitude of Federal
German society as it took shape finds support not least—although they do
not mention this—in the fact that attempts were actually made to organize
collective mourning. The inept institutions of National Remembrance Day
and German Unity Day, when during the Cold War years people were
supposed to put candles in their windows for their brothers and sisters in the
East, were ill-judged acknowledgments that there had been no natural
reactions of mourning, so that the state had, as it were, to create them by
decree. The imposition of mourning on a state that could no longer afford to
indulge in a national day of celebration was the first sign that the Germans
had managed to avoid a phase of collective melancholy (whose objective

correlate would have wrecked the Morgenthau Plan), instead bringing their
psychological energies to bear on “resisting the experience of a melancholy
impoverishment of the self.”2
The Mitscherlichs showed that “the moral duty of mourning for the
victims of our ideological aims … for the time being could be only a
superficial intellectual phenomenon,” since in the circumstances the
emotional collapse that psychologists might have expected had been
displaced by mechanisms and strategies “very close to the protective
3
biological strategy for survival, if not actually analogous to it.” While there
was any perceptible questioning from outside of the nation’s right to exist,
and while the population’s concrete needs stood in the way of
preoccupation with their own guilt, then mourning and melancholy—both
of which can be allowed expression only against a reasonably secure social
background—were suppressed. That is why Alexander and Margarete
Mitscherlich themselves do not set out to accuse the nation of
psychologically inadequate reactions in the years directly after the end of
the war because of the absence of mourning. What they do consider a
problem is the fact that “even later there was no proper mourning for our
fellow human beings, killed in such great numbers by our own deeds.” That
deficiency is perhaps most obvious in the literature written some ten or
twelve years after currency reform, which shows hardly any insight into
ideas of collective guilt and the need to describe the wrong that had been
done. In many novels of the 1950s, for instance, egocentric sentimentality
and criticisms of the new society which fall rather short of the mark are a
substitute for the study of what happened to others among us. It is probably
therefore fair to say that the authors of the 1950s, predestined to be the
conscience of the new society, were as deaf to conscience as that new
society itself.
Nossack: An Exception
Among the few postwar writers who felt scruples about what had happened,
and tried to articulate them in a form still relevant today, is Hans Erich
Nossack. In his notes made at the time, he says a great deal about the
responsibility of the survivors for their younger brothers, the shame of not

being among the victims, sleepless nights, the necessity of thinking things
out to the end, and failure as the proper way for us to die.4 Nossack tried to
understand the various categories of mourning through the example of
Greek tragedy, and he realized that in a society which is too deeply afraid of
feeling guilt to look back, if it is to conserve what vital energies it has left,
anyone who mentions “what lies behind us” is likely to be condemned by
5
the general public. Earlier than most others, Nossack understood where the
difficulty of postwar writing chiefly lay: in the fact that memory was
shameful and that anyone who did remember would, like Hamlet, be
admonished by the new men in power.
Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
Seek for thy noble father in the dust:
Thou know’st ’tis common; all that lives must die,
Passing through nature to eternity.6
These rather diplomatic words from the queen, who feels both concern for
her son and the fear of discovery, are followed by the new king’s more
explicit warning that to continue mourning is “impious stubbornness,” from
which we may conclude that in a political community which bears a heavy
burden of guilt, wishing to remember the victims that preceded its
establishment is the same thing as expressing doubts of the legitimacy of
the new order, which must ignore the past and identify with the victors.
Wishful Thinking
While Nossack was trying to maintain a position of profound skepticism
like Hamlet’s against the consensus of society at large, most of the
outstanding writers of the new Federal Republic (for instance Richter,
Andersch, and Böll) were already busy propagating the myth of the good
German who had no choice but to let everything wash over him and bear it.
At the heart of the apologia thus circulated was the fiction of a difference
between passive resistance and passive collaboration, one that was in some
way important.

As a result, in most literary works of the 1950s, which are quite often
decked out with a love story in which a good German man meets a Polish or
Jewish girl, the incriminating past is “reappraised” sentimentally rather than
emotionally, and simultaneously the author extensively and successfully
avoids—as the Mitscherlichs note in the case history appended to their
essay—saying any more about the victims of the Fascist system.7 If in
individual psychological cases this course of action serves “to keep signs of
affection that are in short suppy anyway within the pattern of family roles,”
then in literature it maintains traditional narrative forms, which could not
8
convey an authentic attempt to mourn by identifying with the real victims.
The Mitscherlichs rightly complain that we, the readers, who would have
liked to know more about the conflicts of the survivors and be given a more
honest account of them, must put up with poorly drawn figments of wishful
thinking that personify innocence, characters who can bear life among their
opportunistic countrymen only as isolated individuals retreating, with
resignation, into a private existence without any obligations, even though
we know that such noble heroes do not usually exist.9 “The gulf between
literature and politics in our country is as wide as ever,” so the
Mitscherlichs summed it up in the middle of the 1960s, “and so far none of
our writers seems to have succeeded in influencing the political awareness
and social culture of the Federal Republic one iota with his works.”10
The Mitscherlichs’ diagnosis of the inherent inadequacies of German
postwar literature, which at this time was undoubtedly correct, does not
register the fact that since the beginning of the 1960s, and at least since the
appearance of Hochhuth’s in many respects devastating play Der
Stellvertreter (“The Deputy”), several authors had begun auditing the
balance sheet of German guilt.
We may account for the delay before they did so not least by
remembering that the real dimensions of the genocide perpetrated by their
nation were only just beginning to dawn upon men of letters unused to
factual research, and the legal reconstruction of the circumstances of that
mass crime had itself been delayed. The minds of authors who would be
important in the further development of West German literature began to be
politicized to the same extent as the legal procedures culminating in the
Auschwitz trial in Frankfurt shed light on the functionalism of a
11
“pedantically controlled apparatus of human destruction.” Die Ermittlung

(“The Investigation”), by Peter Weiss, whose road to Damascus the
Frankfurt trial was, is one indication of that fact, and so are the Frankfurter
Vorlesungen (“Frankfurt Lectures”) given in the mid-1960s by Heinrich
Böll. These last mentioned say more about Germany and the Germans, and
say it more cogently, than anything in Böll’s previous literary works.
Here for the first time Böll speaks, with his by now characteristic honesty
and immediacy, of the lengthy emergence of recognition and emancipation
in a country where “too many murderers [go about] freely and boldly,”
people “of whom it can never be proved that they are guilty of murder.”
And he continues: “Guilt, remorse, penance, insight, have not become
social and certainly not political categories.”12 However, he does not say
that literature itself fended off possible insights longer than was good for it,
and that the political and social immobility and provincialism that the
Mitscherlichs connect directly with the “doggedly maintained resistance to
13
memories” had its counterpart in literary immobility and provincialism.
Just as the nation as a whole concentrated all its energy and its
entrepreneurial spirit “on restoring what had been destroyed, extending and
modernizing our industrial potential all the way to kitchen fittings,” so the
literature of the fifties, in a kind of parallel process, was notable less for a
desire to investigate the truth than for a certain resentment of the miracles
achieved in the economy; a situation diagnosed by the Mitscherlichs as
“political apathy with, simultaneously, a high degree of emotional
stimulation in the field of consumption.”14
Deliberately taking sides against political apathy instead of merely
deploring the lack of foundation for this parallel to Father Malachy’s
Miracle* was to a great extent the task of West German literati in the sixties.
It provided them with their true éducation sentimentale as independent
writers. These years of apprenticeship then found political expression in the
commitment of many authors to political parties in the 1969 election.
This political commitment openly faced the question of the authenticity
of democracy in Germany, where, as Böll has often reminded us, too swift
and enthusiastic a readiness for reform aroused doubts of its real political
substance. The commitment of Heinrich Böll and Günter Grass in the 1969
election was determined not least by the suspicion that their West German
fellow countrymen would have been satisfied with a Christian Democratic
Unity Party continuing into the future, from which they concluded that it

was crucially important to the further development of democracy in
Germany for the Social Democrats to come to power.
OceanofPDF.com

II. GÜNTER GRASS:
FROM THE DIARY OF A SNAIL
The outstanding feature of the history of the 1969 campaign is the elation
felt when the Social Democrats just snatched victory; once again, the true
line of democracy in the Federal Republic was identified with the long
march of the Social Democrats, and not least with the role played by the
literary figures who forged ahead in the last phase of that arduous journey.
Part of the sum total of this experience was the realization, now
consolidated, that democracy is concerned with more than a healthy
economy. Grass apostrophizes it in his Diary of a Snail by taking the
popular clichés of the time expressing the nation’s new self-confidence and
incorporating them in his text as quotations:
“… and now after twenty-five years. From rubble and ashes we. From
scratch. And today we are once more. Without false modesty. As the
whole world is forced to. No one expected it. We can hold up our …”
Yes, indeed. Story on story, and cost a pretty. Money in the bank all
the same. Everything runs, flows, conveys, and lubricates itself
automatically. Not just the victor powers, God himself comes to us for
credit. We are again, somebody again, we are …15
The question raised through this synoptic ridicule is directed at the
nation’s mental identity and, as the collage effect of the Diary makes clear
in its first pages, can be answered only by presenting the experience of
success in the present together with the debit entries, still not correctly
deciphered, of our past.
So this literary and political guide to the election campaign in Germany
also becomes an account of the exodus of the Danzig Jews and the
description of a place that had long remained a blank area on the map of
any work devoted to Danzig. Without the passages describing the fate of the
persecuted minority, the Diary of a Snail would surely have remained a
work written on a single level. For only the dimension of concrete

remembrance lends substance to the central story of the schoolmaster
nicknamed “Doubt,” and on another level substance to the reflections on
melancholy. The presentation of local history does not, as usual in texts
about that act of genocide, deal with “the Jews” in a sense that, however
terrifying, is abstract; instead the author and with him the reader understand
that Jews from Danzig, Augsburg, and Bamberg once really were fellow
citizens and fellow human beings, and did not exist merely as a nebulous
collective.
The Fate of the Danzig Jews
We owe the story of the Danzig Jews as Grass tells it not primarily to the
work of the author himself, knowledgeable as he is about the history of
Danzig, but to the Jewish historian Erwin Lichtenstein. It is quite surprising
to reflect that Grass—if his own text is correctly understood here—may in a
way have come by the story gratis. “On my visit to Israel from November 5
to November 18, 1971,” writes Grass in a parenthesis in the Diary, “Erwin
Lichtenstein informed me that his documents on ‘The Exodus of the Jews
from the Free City of Danzig’ were soon to be published in book form by
16
Mohr in Tübingen.” And in fact the impressively real details that lend
authenticity to the account of the journey of the Danzig Jews traveling from
their home into exile and from exile home again derive almost exclusively
from Lichtenstein’s research.
We may leave aside the question of when, in developing his concept,
Grass incorporated the exodus of the Jewish community of Danzig into the
plan for his book. It is certain, however, that this chapter in the “dark,
complicated story,” of which the narrator of Cat and Mouse says that it is
not to be written by him “and in no case in connection with Mahlke,” could
not ultimately be written by Grass himself, for German literati still know
little of the real fate of the persecuted Jews.17 But as, to employ an image of
Canetti’s, like all writers they follow their noses over the chasms of time,
yet now, as Grass himself puts it, they have come home with “the sniffed
insight that it smells everywhere, and not only in quaint one-family houses,
that sometimes frankly and pungently, sometimes lavender-sweetened, here
masked by refrigeration, there streaked with mold, and next door

unspeakably, it stinks, because here, there and next door the cellars harbor
corpses.”18
Discovering the truth is thus shown to be the business of the dog
described by Benjamin as the emblematic beast of melancholy, which, as
Kafka too knew, “symbolizes the darker aspect of the melancholy” as well
19
as its “tenacity.”
“A writer,” says Grass, reflecting with melancholy on his own profession,
“a writer, children, is a man who loves fug and tries to give it a name, who
lives on fug by giving it a name; a mode of life that puts calluses on the
nose.”20 Despite this almost constitutional compulsion of the man of letters
to carry out research, noted by the Mitscherlichs, “the real people we were
ready to sacrifice to our master race have not yet appeared before the
perception of our senses.”21 The fact that Grass succeeded in making up
some of that deficit in his Diary is something he owes primarily to the
efforts of a historian living in Tel Aviv, and that in its own turn shows that
literature today, left solely to its own devices, is no longer able to discover
the truth.
The Character of Hermann Ott
For this very reason the story of Hermann Ott that forms the backbone of
the Diary, and is used by the author to offer the reader’s receptive
imagination many consoling ideas, will not ultimately stand up to critical
examination. Unlike the documentary passages about the exodus of the
Jews and the electoral campaign, the writer’s own family life, and the
essaylike digressions, it is pure invention although everything else relates to
it. This fact, of course, is initially disguised by the repeated suggestion that
we really have here an incident from the life of Marcel Reich-Ranicki
which cannot at present be made public.
Hermann Ott, nicknamed Doubt, by trade a teacher and a skeptic, has
been teaching at the Rosenbaum private school since state schools were
closed to the Jewish children of Danzig, and still buys his lettuce from
Jewish tradesmen even when the market women call him names for it. This
Hermann Ott is a retrospective figure created by the author’s wishful
thinking; structurally no different, if of far less fateful import, than the

angelic young Father Riccardo Fontano in Hochhuth’s The Deputy who
provides evidence that good still exists even in the face of mass
annihilation.
In order to leave Hermann Ott’s German identity in no doubt, Grass gives
us his literary alter ego’s Aryan family tree of all the way back to
Groningen in the Netherlands during the sixteenth century. The implication
here, as in everything we learn about Hermann Ott, is that there really were
Germans of a better kind, a thesis that stakes its claim to a high degree of
probability through the combination of fiction with the documentary
material. Whether the good and innocent Germans leading their quiet,
heroic lives in the country’s postwar literature really existed in the way
suggested to the reader probably matters less, objectively speaking, than the
obvious fact that, as we can read in Böll, they confined their effective
activities to saying a Good Friday prayer which “even includes the
unbelieving Jews.”22
German literature of the postwar period sought its moral salvation in
these fictional figures, of whom Günter Grass’s Doubt is certainly one of
the most honorable, and, thus preoccupied, failed to understand the grave
and lasting deformities in the emotional lives of those who let themselves
be integrated into the system without questioning it.
The invented figure of the teacher Doubt, enabling Grass to develop his
snail-theme of melancholy, thus functions as an alibi to counter the
programmatic intention of mourning, and the real aspects of the story of the
Danzig Jews once again fail to get their due, despite the aid of Erwin
Lichtenstein. One of the passages in the Diary where an appearance of truth
is created by the confrontation of historical reality and retrospective fiction
is a passage about the transports taking those Jewish children who were
able to leave Danzig to England. Faced with his own children’s questions:
“Did they have to go to school, too?”
“Did they all learn English quick?”
“And what about their parents?”
23
“Where did they go?”
Grass responds by telling them about an English journalist who came
from Danzig and had accompanied him for part of the electoral campaign.
To this journalist, who left Danzig at the age of nearly twelve on one of the
children’s transports, pictures of his native town were still clear: “gables,
churches, streets, porches, and chimes, gulls on blocks of ice and over

brackish water—in chiaroscuro, like broken toys,” but “he couldn’t
remember a schoolteacher by the name of Ott (known as Doubt).”24 The
situation thus sketched makes one wonder whether the dominance of fiction
over what really happened does not tend to militate against the recording of
the truth and the attempt to commemorate it.
The Social Democratic Electoral Campaign
Another of the images of wishful thinking constructed by Grass in the
Diary of a Snail is his idea of German Social Democracy, on behalf of
which he undertakes all the stress and strain of a campaign trip covering
31,000 kilometers.
The first striking feature in this context is that while Grass likes to
describe the prehistory and early history of Social Democracy, he says
nothing about the political debacle brought about by the party in Germany
in the years after the First World War. We see August Bebel in his green
turner’s apron, and “Ede” Bernstein, and we are told that Willy Brandt now
owns the watch that once belonged to the first party leader and that it is still
in working order, details conveying a pleasing air of family solidarity with
the representatives of an upright past, but we hear nothing of Ebert and
Noske, to name just two of the less glorious figures.*
Nor is it explained to a younger generation of readers how a country
which, in the late nineteenth century, produced the strongest and best-
organized of all Socialist movements, came to fall into the arms of Fascism
twenty to thirty years later. As Grass presents it, the historical background
of Social Democracy is underexposed, merely adorned for effect with a few
picturesque details and brave figures such as that of the upright Bebel
traveling illegally through the country and setting the comrades an example
under the anti-Socialist laws, thus of course helping the campaign of the
new pioneers of Social Democracy to appear in a somewhat heroic light.
From time to time a sense of fraternity in a common cause spreads
among the generation of “quadragenarians” who hope for a new political
dawn and who, Grass thinks, “seem to be trying to compensate by
overproduction for the reduced achievement of a few decimated war
25
years.” The reader almost feels that the author finds absolution for what

still irks him about the German past, although he knows himself innocent of
it, in his practical commitment to a better German political system, and that
only in active politics and the hectic haste of traveling—identified by Böll
in his Frankfurt Lectures as a particularly German form of desperation—
can he keep a little way ahead of those resolute, monosyllabic snails Guilt
and Shame.26
Dürer’s Melancholy
If the political activity in which, as Grass constantly emphasizes, he sees
something more real than the construction of utopian plans, thus succeeds
in warding off a despair that is moving in itself, then Dürer’s Melancholia
has made her way into his traveling bag as fellow traveller and angel of his
guilty conscience.
That monstrous lady, in whom a dog lies buried, and whose draped
garment covers the stench of the whole country, “with clammy
fingers … holds the compass and cannot close the circle,” probably because
—like the author himself—she is concerned, over and above the present
task, with the problem of squaring morality implied by the question of
whether by writing, and thus representing everyone else who does not write,
he cannot make a contribution to the therapy of the nation, rather as Doubt
cures his cold Lisbeth by the application of an “unidentified slug.”27 The
black gall or bile that this curiosity of nature magically draws out of the
depressive Lisbeth was, as Grass reminds us, still current in the sixteenth
century as a synonym for the ink with which the writer draws his circles.
However, a writer who uses black bile as a medium for creative work risks
taking on the misunderstood depression of those for whom he writes.
The further course of Doubt’s story illustrates this very forcefully. After
he has proved “that melancholia is curable”—by means of a suction slug—
the author condemns him to twelve years in a mental hospital where he
lives forgotten, “muttering over the jumbled handwriting on his papers”
until, we do not know how, he himself is cured and finds a niche as a
28
cultural affairs official in Kassel in West Germany.
If we ignore this too optimistic turn in the plot, the story tells us that in
the social system of the division of labor it is the writer squaring morality

who overcomes the collective conscience and, like Dürer in his self-portrait
(cited in Grass’s text), points his right finger to the site of illness in his pen
and ink drawing, adding the words: “Where the yellow spot is and where
the finger is pointing, that is where it hurts.”29
In choosing Dürer’s demonstration of suffering as the emblem of his own
philosophy of mourning, Grass transcends the question of whether
melancholy is a constitutional or a reactive condition, a question that
ultimately cannot be clinically determined. It may be true that the chronicle
of Grass’s journey through Germany would have been a far less intelligent
book without that contrapuntal excursus into mourning, but it is equally true
that there is something laboriously constructed about the excursus, making
it rather like the performance of a historical duty.
OceanofPDF.com

III. WOLFGANG HILDESHEIMER: TYNSET
In contrast, Wolfgang Hildesheimer’s novel Tynset, which has had nothing
like the attention and recognition that its inherent qualities should receive,
seems to have been created from the heart of mourning itself.
The Anonymous Voice of Conscience
The story of the first-person narrator of this lengthy monologue, who is
tormented by insomnia and melancholy and is never clearly perceived as a
character, only as a voice, begins at a time (somewhere in the postwar
years) when he was still trying to live in Germany, “where the
superannuated and retired criminals, now too old for prosecution” appear to
lead their lives unchallenged “among their children, their in-laws, and their
30
grandchildren.” Uneasy and disturbed by what he, like Hamlet, recognizes
as a state of unsanctified legitimacy, the nameless narrator, who likes to leaf
through telephone directories at night, cannot resist the temptation to pursue
the sense of complicity and fellow-traveling that lurks hidden everywhere
in the country. First at random, then more systematically following the trails
that emerge from his random samples, he conveys to a series of upright
fellow citizens the information that all is discovered, causing those who
receive so urgent a message to leave home in haste, perhaps with a violin
case under the arm, and disappear over the horizon like Kleist’s corrupt
village judge Adam after the identity of the person who broke the jug has
been revealed.
In pursuing these activities the narrator, almost by chance, becomes an
anonymous arbiter of conscience to his guilt-ridden contemporaries, a role
that he adopts almost playfully, and not without relishing the grotesque
comedy he has set in motion, until his hypersensitive ear, which picks up
the slightest sound, one day hears the telltale crackle on his own telephone,

and he knows that his own experimental system of persecution has turned
against him.
Nights Like Hamlet’s
At this he acutely feels “the fear of the silence of the nights in which those
beings that know no fear are at work,” and he decides to escape it by
31
moving “to another country.” This other country, from which he now
continues his narrative, can be identified as a remote region of the Alps but
remains, for the reader, as anonymous and undiscovered as the figure of the
narrator himself; in the further course of the story, indeed, it turns out to be
that bourne from which, as Hamlet knows, no traveler returns, and is thus a
metaphor of exile and death. The protagonist, now living there in deep
distress, speaks to us from the fixed abode of melancholy which he roams
by night, entangled in the inescapable associations of a terrifying past,
which lies in wait for him on the stairs in the shape of Hamlet’s father. But
having understood the dialectic of victim and persecutor by means of his
own experiment, he rejects the ghost’s request for revenge, the better to
preserve his awareness of his own innocence. He now uses the telephone
with which he woke the guilty from sleep in Germany merely “to listen,
sometimes to listen only to the humming silence, the one sound made by
passing time.”32
Moving on under the eye of Hamlet’s father, who is waiting to grasp his
little finger and then his whole hand, the narrator remembers his own father,
“killed by good Christian family men from Vienna or the Westerwald,” who
33
does not stand on the stairs “looking for means of revenge.” However, his
own renunciation of revenge in emulation of this absent example does not
exorcise the poor souls who walk by night, and he listens as intently and
with as much longing for the crowing of the cocks as the Danish watchmen
at the beginning of Shakespeare’s play, for as everyone knows ghosts do not
vanish until cockcrow.
But the narrator of Tynset is denied the pious Christian hope articulated in
Hamlet—“It faded on the crowing of the cock. / Some say that ever ‘gainst
that season comes / Wherein our Saviour’s birth is celebrated, / The bird of
dawning singeth all night long”—bringing the prospect of final liberation

from the nightmare of the past by salvation.34 Indeed, the Christian idea of
hope seems to be finally discredited by the alcoholic misery of the
housekeeper Celestina, who seeks absolution from the narrator in one of the
many nocturnal scenes, by the figure of the Chicago evangelist Wesley B.
Prosniczer, who also visits him unasked and later finds a cold grave in a
snowdrift, and by a 1961 press cutting describing a defense minister about
to kiss the ring on the hand that is offered to him by a cardinal. The crowing
of the cock, then, does not here promise the dawning of a new day in any
higher sense, merely a brief respite from the coming of the next of the many
nights still to be endured, nights which—as Kafka noted—are divided into
35
phases of waking and sleeplessness.
Rites of Melancholy
This realization of the impossibility of salvation matches the unrelated
condition of melancholy which, in developing its own rituals, promises
some relief but not release from suffering and the “feral deseases” so often
36
mentioned in Robert Burton’s Anatomy of Melancholy. Among these
rituals, in the narrator’s case, are the nocturnal reading of telephone
directories and timetables, the unfolding of maps, and the making of plans
for imaginary journeys to the most distant of lands, countries that might
well lie beyond the sea shown in the background of Dürer’s Melencolia.
Like Robert Burton, who was familiar with melancholy all his life, the
narrator is a man “who delights in cosmography … but has never travelled
except by map and card.”37 And the summer bed with room enough for
seven sleepers where he meditates on stories such as that of the Black
Death, with all its paths and coincidences, is of the same century as
Burton’s compendium, an era of anxiety when the fear was first uttered
“that the great mutations of the world are acted, or time may be too short
for our designes.”38 The narrator’s digressive excursions from the starting
point of this realization open up the view—again, a reminiscence from
Hamlet—of a world lying far below melancholy, a “dead globe crawling
39
with parasites” whose power of attraction is spent and forfeit. The icy

sense of distance as the narrator turns away from all earthly life represents a
vanishing point in the dialectic of melancholy.
However, the other dimension of the Saturnian circumstances responsible
for melancholy does point, as Benjamin has said and in the context of the
heavy, dry nature of that planet, to the type of man predestined to hard and
fruitless agricultural labor.40 It is probably no coincidence that the narrator’s
only utilitarian occupation seems to be growing herbs. He sends these
herbs, dried and in carefully adjusted mixtures, to various delicatessens in
Milan and Amsterdam as well as to Germany, to Hamburg and Hannover.
Perhaps they bear the words “Rosemary, that’s for remembrance” written in
41
Ophelia’s hand.
The Ideal of Lightlessness
This last, tenuous connection with the outside world also expresses the wish
for a progressive and gradual removal from the society of mankind. It is
complemented by a tendency toward dematerialization that in the text has
its symbolical counterpart in a painting—a work that ranks very high in the
narrator’s estimation—so dark and black “that it gives not the slightest idea
42
of what it may once have shown.” The “ideal of blackness” of which this
picture, signed by one Jean Gaspard Muller, is an example, is, as Adorno
remarked in his Ästhetische Theorie, “one of the deepest impulses of
abstraction.”43 To follow that impulse, to reach a place “where no star, no
light is visible, where there is nothing, where nothing is forgotten because
nothing is remembered, where it is night, where it is nothing, nothing,
void,” is the deepest emotion to move the narrator when, in the darkness, he
explores the spaces between the stars with his telescope.44
But as the narrator well knows, the search for the ideal of absolute
lightlessness remains a hopeless undertaking, for the more he reduces the
angle of his lens to exclude the stars still perceptible in his field of vision,
the farther he sees into the depths of space from which heavenly bodies
previously darkened by distance now shine out. Here, then, we are dealing
with something far from nihilism in the usual sense of the word; it is more
like an approximation to death, that black point which, in the narrator’s
imagination, is always becoming “blacker and thicker, ever thicker and ever

longer,” and to which his melancholy clings like “the fat weed / that roots
itself in ease on Lethe wharf,” a provocative gesture of resignation.45
Melancholy, of all entities, will make no pact with death, for it knows
him as “the most gloomy representative of a gloomy reality” and therefore,
like the traveler who, at the beginning of The Castle, voluntarily crosses the
bridge into unsurveyed country, speculates on whether death might not be
46
vulnerable to an invasion of his own territory.
The area that melancholy thus sets out to explore stretches out before us
in The Castle as a snowy, frozen landscape, and its exact counterpart is
Tynset, a place in the north of Norway that the narrator ventures to visit.
Tynset is the penultimate stage on his journey. After it comes Röros, which
“[lies] like a last camp on the way to the end of the world, before that way
is lost in inhospitable regions, a territory so incalculable, so menacing, that
its exploration has been postponed year after year, until the camp has
become eternal autumn quarters inhabited by aging explorers who have lost
sight of their goal; have forgotten it, and now look vaguely for the
geographical origins of a melancholy … that they have long been seeking,
but on which they can never lay hands.”47
The Cold Mamsell
The inhospitable region that the melancholy disposition adopts as its home
in this reflection is its idea not just of the anteroom of death, but also of the
place where we are all continually entertained by a sinister lady who, as
Hildesheimer confided to his friend Max in a recently published letter,
regularly awaits us after midnight. She is “the cold Mamsell,” a name
accurately denoting her profession, similarly remembered by Grass in
evoking Dürer’s Melencolia. Among her avocations—as Hildesheimer
describes them with some malice—are rolling up salami slices and
wrapping cold asparagus in strips of ham, arranging olives on savory
breadsticks, slicing cheese thinly, cutting gherkins into fan shapes, carving
tomatoes into eighths and radishes into water lily shapes, splitting onions
into rings, and laying cubed brawn on platters and sliced cold meats on a
bed of lettuce. So that Max will know just who he is dealing with,

Hildesheimer adds to this description: “You see, she comes from Germany.
In line with her name, she is rather cold, especially her shoulders.”48
If anyone needs further information to identify this lady, let us add that
we are already familiar with one of her sisters-in-law from Kafka’s novel
quoted above; she keeps house in the castle and “it is usually cold in castles
and always winter / for the sun of righteousness is far from them … so
49
courtiers shiver with cold, / fear and sadness.” That sister-in-law of the
Cold Mamsell who presides over this drafty place can boast several chests
of grand dresses, and whenever she, this Madame la Mort, goes to fetch
someone she has a new one made, which she then adds to those already in
her wardrobe, and consequently she also gives the surveyor the opportunity
of entering her service as a tailor: a compromising offer, which in view of
his own mission he must decline.
* The title of a 1931 novel filmed by the Austrian director Bernhard
Wicki in 1961; the plot concerns the miraculous removal of a dance
hall called the Garden of Eden from the city where it is giving
offense.
* Friedrich Ebert (1871–1925) was the first president of the Weimar
Republic, and had become chairman of the Social Democratic Party
in 1913. Gustav Noske (1868–1946) was also a prominent politician
during the Weimar Republic period.
OceanofPDF.com

Des Häschens Kind, der kleine Has
(The Little Hare, Child of the Hare)
ON THE POET ERNST HERBECK’S TOTEM ANIMAL
OceanofPDF.com

Most of the recent literature we persist in reading seems inane only a few
years later. Or at least, and so far as I am concerned, very little of it has stood
the test of time as well as the poems written by Ernst Herbeck from around
1960 onward in his mental hospital in Gugging.
I first came upon Herbeck’s eccentric figures of speech in 1966. I
remember sitting in the Rylands Library in Manchester reading a work on
the calamitous Carl Sternheim, and every now and then, as if to refresh my
mind, picking up a little volume published by dtv, Schizophrenie und
Sprache (“Schizophrenia and Language”) and finding myself amazed by the
brilliance of the riddling verbal images conjured up, evidently at random, by
this most unfortunate of poets. Today, such sequences of words as Firn der
Schnee das Eis gefriert (“Firn the snow the ice freezes”) or Blau. Die Rote
Farbe. Die Gelbe Farbe. Die Dunkelgrüne. Der Himmel ELLENO (“Blue.
The Red Color. The Yellow Color. The Dark Green. The sky ELLENO”) still
seem to me to verge on the frontiers of a breathless other world.
Again and again passages of slight distortion and gentle resignation
remind one of the way in which Matthias Claudius sometimes manages, with
a single semitone or pause, to induce a momentary feeling of levitation in the
reader. Ernst Herbeck writes: “Bright we read in the misty sky / How stout
the winter days. Are.” There is probably no greater sense of both distance
and closeness anywhere in literature. Herbeck’s poems show us the world in
reverse perspective. Everything is contained in a tiny circular image.
It is astonishing that over and beyond his own poems Herbeck also gave
us a theory of poetics in a few statements of principle. “Poetry,” he writes,
“is an oral way of shaping history in slow motion.… Poetry is also
antipathetic to reality, and weighs more heavily. Poetry transfers authority to
the pupil. The pupil learns poetry; and that is the history in the book. We
learn poetry from the animal in the woods. Gazelles are famous historians.”
Ernst Herbeck, who spent most of his life in a psychiatric hospital, hardly
knew the contemporary history of Austria and Germany at first hand, but he
remembered Adolf Hitler as Reich Chancellor, the enthusiasm with which
Vienna received him, and other festive occasions of the past. A Christmas

poem not only mentions the inevitable snow and lighted candles, but
contains references to banners, warfare, and downfall.
Wartime Christmas as Goebbels envisaged it, and as recalled to memory
by Kluge and Reitz, flares up again in Herbeck’s poetry. A poem entitled
“Ins Stammbuch” (“Taken to Heart”) and beginning with the lines “der Tag
ist auf die gut Deutsche / Eiche Tot der vergangen Heid” (“the day is risen
the good German / oak Dead the departed heathen”) gives us more to think
about than does the professional disposal of our burden of guilt and the past.
It seems to me actually uncanny that Herbeck wrote the following poem in
that historic year 1989. I wish all my countrymen would take it to heart.
Das Schwert ist eine seriöse deutsche
Waffe und wird von den Gothen und
wird von den ausserstehenden Germanen
verwendet; bis auf den
heutigen Tag. Dies im gesamtdeutschen
Raum (Germanien).
(The sword is a serious German
weapon used by the Goths
and used by the Germanic
peoples farther afield; up to the
present day. And this in the whole
German area [Germania].)
However, I do not mean to write on Ernst Herbeck’s concept of national
history here, but on his attempts to record the history of his own family and
descent in complex mythological terms. In her book Die Ver-rückung der
Sprache (“The Dis-placement of Language”), Gisela Steinlechner has shown
that the work of Herbeck is full of anthropomorphic portraits of animals.
One reason for this is that the poet’s psychiatrist often gave him titles such as
“The Zebra,” “The Giraffe” as exercises, so that the patient could write
about them. Since Herbeck in general kept closely to the subjects he was
offered, he produced a whole bestiary—a child’s primer confirming, if
ironically, the general validity of the taxonomic order we have devised. “The
raven leads the devout,” “The owl loves children,” “The zebra runs through
broad fields,” and “The kangaroo leans on its support”—none of this is very
disturbing. Yet Herbeck also writes of unknown species not listed in
zoological encyclopedias, making us suspect that the animals are not so very

different from each other, or we ultimately as different from them as we
would like to think. We come upon a being that is half lamb, half cat in
Herbeck, as we do in the synagogue mentioned by Franz Kafka.
Much more mysterious than these strange creatures, however, is the
symbolic hare in Herbeck’s work, a creature that the author related to the
question of his own origin. He gives only the most cursory and singular facts
about his early history. Everything to do with the family and relations is a
mystery to him. “One question, please!” he writes. “Are the son-in-law’s
children father-in-law to their siblings? I can’t work it out! Please tell me,
and thank you.” In fact to Herbeck, doomed to lifelong celibacy, the most
inscrutable feature of these relationships was the idea of married life, on
which he makes only a few vague and extremely innocent comments.
Die Ehe ist vorbildlich f. Mann und Frau
in jeder Hinsicht. Sie wird meistens ein
gegangen und geschlossen. Nach der Verlobung
und. Je länger sie dauert desto
kürzer und länger das Dasein. Eines Hasen
oder so.
(Marriage is the model for man and wife
in every respect. You usually enter into
it, you celebrate it. After the engagement
and. The longer it lasts the
shorter and longer the existence.
Of a hare or suchlike.)
What happens after that “and” and the full stop is something the writer
cannot or will not envisage. On the other hand, he knows that conjugal life
may eventually produce a hare. It is not so easy to describe how the act of
procreation works. Perhaps it is not so much a sexual act as a kind of
spontaneous reproduction, even magic.
Der Zauberer zaubert Sachen:
Kleine Hasen. Tücher. Eier.
Er zaubert wiederholt.
Er steckt das Tuch in den Zylinder
und zieht es wieder heraus
es ist ein zahmer Hase dabei.

(The conjuror conjures things up:
little hares. Scarves. Eggs.
He keeps on doing magic.
He puts the scarf in the top hat
and brings it out again
with a tame hare in it.)
The hare so miraculously produced from the top hat is undoubtedly the
totem animal in which the writer sees himself. The harelip with which he
was born, and which was operated on several times, probably played a
crucial part as a premorbid disability in the genesis and particular
development of Herbeck’s schizophrenia and the specific form it took. It is
an identifying mark; in his mind, Herbeck takes this blemish much further
back in time than his childhood. When he is asked to write a poem on “the
embryo,” he forgets that strange new word, and instead writes the following
lines on an unborn fabulous animal more closely related to him, which he
calls the empyrum.
Heil unserer Mutter! Ein werdendes
Kind im Leibe der Mutter. Als ich
ein Empyrum war, hat sie mich
operiert. Ich kann meine Nase
nicht vergessen. Armes Empyrum.
(Hail to the mother! A future
child in the mother’s womb. When I
was an empyrum, she operated
on me. I can’t forget
my nose. Poor empyrum.)
Gisela Steinlechner, in her studies of the work of Ernst Herbeck, was the
first to try to describe the preexistential trauma that, to the damaged subject,
later became his own myth. Among other sources, she drew on the three-
page autobiographical account written by Herbeck in 1970, in which he
describes how at the age of eleven he was in a Pathfinder group under a
leader called Meier; their group was called the Pigeons, unlike the others,
who were Eagles or Stags.
The Pathfinders organization is one of the last in which human beings
give themselves the names of totem animals, but this odd little fact is less

important in itself than Herbeck’s Pathfinder reminiscence of only a few
lines which, in an entirely agrammatical context, uses the very odd word
Thierenschaft (“beastship”). The old German spelling Thier, instead of
modern Tier for “animal” (the “h” long ago became silent), suggests a time
before human beings were even capable of speech.
Since in the history of our species ancient strategies of thinking and
mental organization regularly occur in those described as mentally ill, it is
not at all far-fetched to look back to the basic rules governing the totemic
imagination in order to find out what Herbeck meant. Gisela Steinlechner
has interpreted the harelip as the symbol upon which Herbeck himself fixed
for his divided personality. In this connection she looks at Claude Lévi-
Strauss’s proposition that in American Indian myths the harelip was the
remaining trace of a twin who was never actually born. This duality in one
person makes the hare, with its split face, one of the highest deities,
mediating between heaven and earth. But part of the messianic vocation is to
be elect in the context of salvation, and at the same time ostracized and
persecuted in the secular world. Not for nothing did Ernst Herbeck, who
probably felt the grief of the despised more than any sense of mission as the
Son of Man, place four exclamation marks after the title that he was given
for a poem one day, “The Hare.” The poem runs as follows:
Der Hase is ein kühnes Tier!
Er läuft bis ihm die Strappen
fassen. Die Ohren spitzgestellt; er
lauscht. Für ihn—ist keine Zeit
zum Rasten. Lauf läuft läuft.
Armer Hase!
(The hare is a bold animal!
He runs until the snare
catches him. Ears pricked; he
listens. For him—there is no time
to rest. Run runs runs. Poor hare!)
The ambivalent nature of the hare in myth, closely combining power and
impotence, boldness and fear, determines Herbeck’s concept of the nature of
his emblematic animal.
In his autobiographical essay, he also tells us (as Gisela Steinlechner, too,
has pointed out) that his mother “had a hare” at what the author calls a time

of revolt and the “need for silver.” By saying that she had a hare (einen
Hasen bekam) he means, of course, that she “was brought or given” a hare, a
useful addition to the meager diet of the times. The brief phrase used by
Herbeck, however, suggests that his mother “had a hare” as a woman might
have a baby.
This hare is then killed by his mother in his father’s presence, and after
that skinned. Herbeck does not mention the dish of roast hare itself, but adds
at the close of his account of the incident only the confession “It tasted too
good to me,” which in a few words sums up the moral of the whole story.
The true extent of his involvement in the dark machinations of social life is
that he was involved in the joint family crime not just as victim but as
perpetrator, having helped to consume his likeness and namesake. To those
who can understand it, the legend of the poor hare used by Herbeck to
explain his sad fate is an exemplary tale of suffering. “The greater the
suffering,” he once wrote, “the greater the poet. The harder the work. The
deeper the meaning.”
OceanofPDF.com

To the Brothel by Way of Switzerland
ON KAFKA’S TRAVEL DIARIES
OceanofPDF.com

A Dutch acquaintance recently told me how she traveled last winter from
Prague to Nuremberg. During the journey she was reading Kafka’s travel
diaries, and sometimes spent a long time looking out at the snowflakes
driven past the window of the old-fashioned dining car, which with its
ruffled curtains and little table lamp spreading reddish light reminded her of
the windows of a small Bohemian brothel. All that she remembered from her
reading was the passage where Kafka describes one of his fellow travelers
cleaning his teeth with the corner of a visiting card, and she remembered that
not because the description was particularly remarkable, but because no
sooner had she turned a few pages than a strikingly stout man sitting at the
table next to hers also, and not a little to her alarm, began probing between
his own teeth with a visiting card, apparently without any inhibitions at all.
This story made me return, after I had not looked at them for a long time, to
the notes that Kafka made when he and Max Brod traveled from Prague to
Paris by way of Switzerland and northern Italy in August and September
1911. Much of that account is as real to me as if I myself had been there, and
not just because “Max” is so frequently mentioned, for instance when a
lady’s hat falls on him in the train compartment, or when Franz leaves him
alone “sitting over a grenadine by himself in the darkness on the outskirts of
a half-empty open-air café”; no, in a curious way the stages of that summer
trip of the past taken by the two bachelors are more familiar to me than any
other place at a later date. Even the car drive in the rain through Munich by
night—“The tires make a rushing noise on the asphalt, like the whirr of a
cinema projector”—bring back great tracts of the memory of my first real
journey, taken in 1948, when I and my father, who had just returned from a
POW camp, went from W. to visit my grandparents in Plattling. My mother
had made me a green jacket, and a little rucksack of check fabric. I think we
traveled in a third-class compartment. At Munich station, where you could
see huge mounds of rubble and ruins as you stood in the forecourt, I felt
unwell and had to throw up in one of those “cabins” of which Kafka writes
that he and Max washed their hands and faces in them before boarding the
night train which passed through the dark foothills of the Alps by way of
Kaufering, Buchloe, Kaufbeuren, Kempten, and Immenstadt to Lindau,

where there was a great deal of singing on the platform long after midnight,
a situation I know very well, since there are always a number of drunks at
Lindau station who have been out on excursions. Similarly, the “impression
of separate buildings standing very upright in St. Gall, without being part of
a street,” but running along the slopes of the valley like one of Schiele’s
Krumau pictures, accurately corresponds to the scenery of a place where I
lived for a year. In general, Kafka’s comments on the Swiss landscape, the
“dark, hilly, wooded banks of Lake Zug” (and how often he writes of such
things) remind me of my own childhood expeditions to Switzerland, for
instance a day trip we made by bus in 1952 from S. to Bregenz, St. Gall, and
Zürich, along the Walensee, through the Rhine valley and home again. At the
time there were comparatively few cars around in Switzerland, and because
many of those were American limousines—Chevrolets, Pontiacs, and
Oldsmobiles—I really thought we were in some entirely foreign, quasi-
utopian country, rather as Kafka found himself thinking of Captain Nemo
and A Journey Through Planetary Space when he saw a revenue cutter on
Lago Maggiore.
In Milan, where I had some strange adventures fifteen years ago, Max and
Franz (one almost envisages them as a couple invented by Franz himself)
decided to go on to Paris, since cholera had broken out in Italy. At a coffee-
house table in the cathedral square, they discuss apparent death and shooting
pains in the region of the heart—obviously a particular obsession in the now
sclerotic Habsburg empire, which had been suspended in a kind of afterlife
for decades. Mahler, notes Kafka, had expected those pains in the heart too.
He had died only a few months earlier, on May 18, at the Löw Sanatorium as
a thunderstorm broke over the town, just as there was a thunderstorm on the
day of Beethoven’s death.
Open in front of me now I have a recently published album containing
photographs of Mahler. He is sitting on the deck of an oceangoing liner,
walking in the countryside near his house in Toblach, on the beach in
Zandvoort, asking a passerby the way in Rome. He looks to me very small,
rather like the impresario of a touring theatrical company down on its luck.
In fact, the passages of his music I like best are those where you can still
hear the Jewish village musicians playing in the distance. Not so long ago I
was listening to some Lithuanian buskers in the pedestrian zone of a north
German town, and their music sounded exactly the same. One had an
accordion, another a battered tuba, the third a double bass. As I listened,

hardly able to tear myself away, I understood why Wiesengrund once wrote
of Mahler that his music was the cardiogram of a breaking heart.
The friends spent their few days in Paris in a rather melancholy mood,
going on several sightseeing expeditions and searching for the joys of love in
a “rationally furnished” brothel with “an electric bell,” where the business
was conducted so swiftly that you were out in the street again before you
knew it. “It is difficult,” writes Kafka, “to see the girls there very closely.… I
really remember only the one who was standing straight in front of me. She
had gaps in her teeth, stood very upright, held her dress together with her
clenched fist over her pudenda, and rapidly opened and closed her large eyes
and her large mouth. Her blond hair was untidy. She was thin. Felt afraid of
forgetting to keep my hat on. You positively have to wrench your hand away
from the brim.” Even the brothel has its own social standards. “A long,
lonely, pointless way home,” the note concludes. Max returns to Prague on
September 14. Kafka spends another week in the sanatorium at the natural
spa of Erlenbach in Zürich. “Traveled with a Jewish goldsmith from
Krakow,” he writes after arriving. Kafka must have met this young man,
who had already traveled widely, on the way back from Paris to Zürich. He
mentions that getting out of the train the goldsmith carries his small suitcase
like a heavy burden. “He has,” writes Kafka, “long, curly hair through which
he occasionally runs his fingers, a bright gleam in his eyes, a slightly hooked
nose, hollow cheeks, a suit of American cut, a frayed shirt, socks falling
down over his shoes.” A traveling journeyman—what had he been doing in
Switzerland? Kafka, we are told, took another walk that first evening in the
dark little garden of the sanatorium, and next day there were “morning
gymnastic exercises to the sound of a song from Des Knaben Wunderhorn
played by someone on the cornet.”
OceanofPDF.com

Dream Textures
A BRIEF NOTE ON NABOKOV
OceanofPDF.com

At the very beginning of Nabokov’s autobiography, programmatically
entitled Speak, Memory, there is the story of a man who, we must assume, is
still very young, and who suffers a panic attack when he first sees a home
movie shot in his parents’ house a few weeks before his birth. All the images
trembling on the screen are familiar to him, he recognizes everything,
everything is right except for the fact, which disturbs him deeply, that he
himself is not where he has always been, and the other people in the house
do not seem to mourn his absence. The sight of his mother waving from one
of the windows on the upper floor is felt by the distressed viewer to be a
farewell gesture, and he is terrified by the sight of the new baby carriage
standing on the porch—“with the smug, encroaching air of a coffin; and
even that was empty, as if, in the reverse course of events, his very bones
had disintegrated.” Nabokov is here suggesting an experience of the
anticipation of death in the memory of a time before life, something that
makes the viewer a kind of ghost in his own family. Nabokov repeatedly
tried, as he himself has said, to cast a little light into the darkness lying on
both sides of our life, and thus to illuminate our incomprehensible existence.
Few subjects therefore, to my mind, preoccupied him more than the study of
spirits, of which his famous passion for moths and butterflies was probably
only an offshoot. At any rate, the most brilliant passages in his prose often
give the impression that our worldly doings are being observed by some
other species, not yet known to any system of taxonomy, whose emissaries
sometimes assume a guest role in the plays performed by the living. Just as
they appear to us, Nabokov conjectures, so we appear to them: fleeting,
transparent beings of uncertain provenance and purpose. They are most
commonly encountered in dreams, “in surroundings they never visited
during their earthly existence,” and are “silent, bothered, strangely
depressed,” obviously suffering severely from their exclusion from society,
and for that reason, says Nabokov, “they sit apart, staring at the floor, as if
death were a dark taint, a shameful family secret.” Nabokov’s speculations
about those who tread the border between life and the world beyond
originate in the realm of his childhood, which vanished without trace in the
October Revolution; despite the evocative accuracy of his memories, he

sometimes wonders whether that Arcadian land ever really existed. Cut off
irrevocably as he was from his place of origin by the decades of terror in
Russian history, he must surely have felt that retrieving one of its images
caused him severe phantom pains, even though he usually looks discreetly,
only through the prism of irony, at what he has lost. In the fifth chapter of
Pnin he speaks at length and in different voices of the price you must pay on
going into exile: not least, besides the material goods of life, the certainty of
your own reality. The young emigrants of the early novels, Ganin, Fyodor,
and Edelweiss, are already marked much more deeply by the experience of
loss than by their new and foreign surroundings. Unexpectedly finding
themselves on the wrong side of the frontier, they are airy beings living a
quasi-extraterritorial, somehow unlawful afterlife in rented rooms and
boardinghouses, just as their author lived at one remove from the reality of
Berlin in the twenties. The strange unreality of such an existence in a foreign
land seems to me nowhere more clearly expressed than in Nabokov’s
remark, made in passing, that he had appeared as an extra in evening dress in
several of the films shot in Berlin at that time, which frequently included
doppelgängers and such shadowy figures among their characters. There is no
proof anywhere else of these appearances of his, so we do not know whether
any of them may still be faintly preserved on a brittle strip of celluloid or
whether they are now all extinguished, and it seems to me that they have
something of the ghostly quality to be found in Nabokov’s own prose, for
instance in The Real Life of Sebastian Knight in the passage where the
narrator, V., in conversation with Sebastian’s student friend at Cambridge,
has a feeling that the ghost of his brother, whose story is on his mind, is
moving around the room in the light reflected from the fire on the hearth.
This scene of course echoes the ghost stories that were so popular in the
eighteenth and nineteenth centuries while a rational view of the world was
making itself felt. Nabokov liked to make use of such clichés: dust swirls in
circles above the floor; there are inexplicable drafts of air, curiously
iridescent effects of light, mysterious coincidences, and strange chance
meetings. In the train to Strasbourg, V. finds himself opposite a gentleman
called Silbermann whose shape blurs to an indistinct outline in the evening
light as the train goes on and on straight into the sunset. Silbermann is a
traveling salesman by profession, one of those restless spirits who often
cross the narrator’s path in Nabokov’s books. Silbermann asks whether V. is
a traveler too, and on getting an answer in the affirmative wants to know

exactly what he travels in. V. tells him that he travels in the past, a remark
that Silbermann instantly understands. Ghosts and writers meet in their
concern for the past—their own and that of those who were once dear to
them. As V. tries to trace the real life of Sebastian, that vanished knight of
the night, he feels a growing suspicion that his brother is looking over his
shoulder as he writes. Such intimations occur with striking regularity in
Nabokov’s work, perhaps because after the murder of his father and the
death of his brother Sergey, who died of consumption in Hamburg in January
1945 while he was in a concentration camp, he had a vague sense of the
continuing presence of those who had been violently torn from this life. As a
result, one of Nabokov’s main narrative techniques is to introduce, through
barely perceptible nuances and shifts of perspective, an invisible observer—
an observer who seems to have a better view not only than the characters in
the narrative but than the narrator and the author who guides the narrator’s
pen; it is a trick that allows Nabokov to see the world, and himself in it, from
above. In fact, his work contains many passages written from a kind of
bird’s-eye view. From a vantage point high above the road, an old woman
picking herbs sees two cyclists and a car approaching a bend from different
directions. From even higher up, from the dusty blue of the sky, an aircraft
pilot sees the whole course of the road and two villages lying twelve miles
apart. And if we could mount even farther up, where the air grows thinner
and thinner, we might perhaps, says the narrator at this point, see the entire
length of the mountain range and a distant city in another land—Berlin, for
instance. This is to see the world through the eye of the crane, as the Dutch
painters sometimes did in painting scenes like the Flight into Egypt, when
they rose above the flat panorama surrounding them down on earth. In the
same way writing, as Nabokov practiced it, is raised on high by the hope
that, given sufficient concentration, the landscapes of time that have already
sunk below the horizon can be seen once again in a synoptic view. Nabokov
also knew, better than most of his fellow writers, that the desire to suspend
time can prove its worth only in the most precise re-evocation of things long
overtaken by oblivion. The pattern on the bathroom floor at Vyra, the white
steam rising above the tub at which the boy looks dreamily from his seat in
the dimly lit lavatory, the curve of the doorframe on which he leans his
forehead—suddenly, with a few well-chosen words, the whole cosmos of
childhood is conjured up before our eyes as if pulled out of a black top hat.
A large oil lamp on an alabaster stand is moved through the darkness. It

hovers gently in the air, and gently settles in its place. The white-gloved
hand of a servant, which is now the hand of memory, sets it down in the
middle of the round table. We are attending the séance staged by Nabokov,
and strangely familiar characters and objects emerge surrounded by that
claritas which has always, since Saint Thomas Aquinas, been regarded as
the sign of a true epiphany. Even for Nabokov, recording such visionary
moments was a very arduous business. A short sequence of words often
needed hours of work before the rhythm was right, down to the last cadence,
before the gravity of earth had been overcome and the author, now as it were
disembodied himself, could reach the opposite bank across his precarious
bridge of written characters. Where that undertaking succeeds, however, one
is borne along by the current of lines sweeping on and on into a radiant
realm which, like everything that is wonderful, has a touch of the surreal
about it, and finally seems to stand on the threshold of the revelation of an
absolute truth, “dazzling,” as we are told at the end of The Real Life of
Sebastian Knight, “in its splendor and at the same time almost homely in its
perfect simplicity.” To set something so beautiful in motion, according to
both Nabokov and the messianic theory of salvation, no gaudy show is
necessary, only a tiny spiritual movement which releases the ideas that are
shut inside our heads and always going around in circles, letting them out
into a universe where, as in a good sentence, there is a place for everything
and everything is in its place. Nabokov has compared the shifts to which the
writer must resort in composing such a sentence to the moves of a game of
chess, one in which the players themselves are chessmen in a game played
by an invisible hand. A steamer moves slowly away from the roadsteads of
Sebastopol and out on the water. From the banks the sounds of the
Bolshevist revolution still echo—shouting and salvos of gunfire. But on the
ship’s deck, father and son face each other over a chessboard, already
immersed in the looking-glass world of exile ruled by the White Queen
where one easily becomes dizzy simply by living backward. “Life is a
Chequer-board of Nights and Days / where Destiny with Men for Pieces
plays: / Hither and thither moves, and mates, and slays, / And one by one
back in the Closet lays.” Nabokov would certainly have subscribed to the
notion of eternal movement expressed in these lines translated from the
eleventh-century Persian poet by Edward FitzGerald, one of his distant
predecessors at Trinity College, Cambridge. It is not surprising that from the
moment of his exile Nabokov never had a real home, not in his years in

England or in Berlin, or in Ithaca where he famously lived only in rented
accommodation and kept moving on. His final place of residence in
Montreux, where he could see above every earthly obstacle from his front-
of-the-circle seat on the top floor of the Palace Hotel and out into the sun
setting above the lake, was surely his dearest and most appropriate home
after the Vyra estate of his childhood, just as a visitor called Simona Marini,
who went to see him on February 3, 1972, tells us that the cable railway,
particularly the chairlift, was his favorite means of transport. “I find it
delightful and dreamlike in the best sense of the word to hover in the
morning sunlight on this magical perch between the valley and the treeline,
observing my shadow from above as, in a seated position—a ghostly
butterfly net in its ghostly hand—it moves gently down the flowery slope
like a scissor-cut seen sideways among the dancing alpines and fritillaries.
One day,” adds Nabokov, “yet subtler dream material will meet the butterfly
hunter as he glides away upright over the mountains, borne aloft by a small
rocket strapped to his back.” This image of an ascension into heaven with its
final touch of humor evokes another such passage, in my opinion the finest
he ever wrote. It is at the end of the first chapter of Speak, Memory, and is an
account of a scene that often took place at Vyra when the peasants from the
village came up to the manor house with some petition or other, usually at
midday when the Nabokovs were in their first-floor dining room. Once the
lord of the manor, Vladimir Dimitrievich, had risen from table and gone out
to see the petitioners and hear their request, then if the matter could be
settled to the delegation’s satisfaction it was their custom to throw him into
the air three times by their united powers and catch him again as he came
down. “From my place at table,” writes Nabokov,
I would suddenly see through one of the west windows a marvelous
case of levitation. There, for an instant, the figure of my father in his
wind-rippled white summer suit would be displayed, gloriously
sprawling in midair, his limbs in a curiously casual attitude, his
handsome, imperturbable features turned to the sky. Thrice, to the
mighty heave-ho of his invisible tossers, he would fly up in this
fashion, and the second time he would go higher than the first and then
there he would be, on his last and loftiest flight, reclining, as if for
good, against the cobalt blue of the summer noon, like one of those
paradisiac personages who comfortably soar, with such a wealth of
folds in their garments, on the vaulted ceiling of a church while below,

one by one, the wax tapers in mortal hands light up to make a swarm of
minute flames in the mist of incense, and the priest chants of eternal
repose, and funeral lilies conceal the face of whoever lies there, among
the swimming lights, in the open coffin.
OceanofPDF.com

Kafka Goes to the Movies
OceanofPDF.com

Films, far more than books, have a way of disappearing not just from the
market but from memory, never to be seen again. But one remembers some
of them even decades later, and one of these rare exceptions, in my mind, is
a ballad in black and white about two men neither of whom really knows
where he is going. I saw it in a Munich cinema in May 1976, and afterward,
moved as one easily is by such experiences, I walked home through the mild
night to my one-room flat in the Olympiapark.
Bruno Winter, I think, was the name of the man in dungarees, the
character in this story directed by Wim Wenders who is on his way through
the infinitely tedious region behind the front line of the western world of the
time. Viewers see him going from place to place, all of them disfigured by
panels of man-made materials. He stops off at cinemas where almost no one
goes anymore. Bruno’s life on the outskirts of a blinkered society was meant
as a tribute to the springtime of the movies, when the public gazed entranced
at quivering strips of celluloid; it was both an obituary for a vanished form
of entertainment and a look back at the years after the last war, when many
of the more remote parts of the German provinces had visits from such
entrepreneurs traveling around with movies. We ourselves, in W. on the
northern borders of the Alps, could go to a weekly film show in the hall of
the local inn, the Engelwirt, and see films like The Secret Agent, The Man in
Grey, Gilda, and Geronimo, with Lauren Bacall, Rita Hayworth, Stewart
Granger, Chief Thundercloud, and other stars of the past on screen.
But that is not my subject here; I am concerned with the other man who
races up in a Volkswagen at the beginning of Kings of the Road (Im Lauf der
Zeit), when Bruno is shaving in the open air, and drives it intentionally (so
much is instantly obvious) into the river by which Bruno has parked
overnight. Bruno is not a little surprised. For a long moment, the Beetle
soars through the air as if it had learned to fly. To this day I remember the
sight. As far as I recollect, Robert Lander, the man at the wheel who rises
from the ground in this spectacular manner, like his near namesake who was
carried away by an umbrella, is a pediatrician or a psychologist, and after
this unusual opening, which Wenders presents in matter-of-fact style, they
travel together through the more remote regions of their native land having

various adventures, of which I remember most clearly a motorbike ride
along an empty road, a very beautiful and almost weightless sequence.
Bruno is riding the bike, if I remember correctly; and Robert sits in the
sidecar wearing the kind of sunglasses one used to have to put on when
being X-rayed. But to come to the real point: it is this Robert (the actor’s real
name is Hanns Zischler), shown in the film relishing the speed of the ride
and the ever changing patterns of light and shade, who has just published a
book about Franz Kafka and what can be discovered or conjectured about his
interest in the art of the cinema, still very new in his time.*
No author has had more written about him than Kafka. Thousands of
books and articles about his character and work have accumulated within the
comparatively short space of half a century. Anyone with even an
approximate idea of the extent and parasitic nature of this proliferation of
words may be forgiven for wondering whether any further additions to this
already excessively long list of titles are needed. However, Kafka Goes to
the Movies is in a category of its own. Unlike the general run of German
critics, whose plodding studies regularly become a travesty of scholarship,
and unlike the manufacturers of literary theory applying their astute minds to
the difficulty of Kafka, Hanns Zischler confines himself to a restrained
commentary which never tries to go beyond its particular subject. It is this
restraint, keeping to the facts alone and refusing to indulge in attempts at
elucidation, that we can now see, looking back, distinguishes the best of
Kafka scholars. Today, if you pick up one of the many Kafka studies to have
appeared since the 1950s, it is almost incredible to observe how much dust
and mold have already accumulated on these secondary works, inspired as
they are by the theories of existentialism, theology, psychoanalysis,
structuralism, post-structuralism, reception aesthetics, or system criticism,
and how unrewarding is the redundant verbiage on every page. Now and
then, of course, you do find something different, for the conscientious and
patient work of editors and factual commentators is in marked contrast to the
chaff ground out in the mills of academia. To me at least—and I cannot
claim to be entirely innocent of the fatal inclination to speculate about
meanings—it seems increasingly that Malcolm Pasley, Klaus Wagenbach,
Hartmut Binder, Walter Müller-Seidel, Christoph Stölzl, Anthony Northey,
and Ritchie Robertson, all of whom have concentrated mainly on
reconstructing a portrait of the author in his own time, have made a greater
contribution to elucidating the texts than those exegetes who dig around in

them unscrupulously and often shamelessly. And among the faithful
advocates we may now count Zischler, who was working on a television film
about Kafka in 1978 when he first came upon the notes on the cinema
scattered through the diaries and books, some of them, as Zischler says, very
curt and cryptic. He was then surprised to find how little scholars had to say
about them. Zischler saw this odd lack of interest as the occasion for an
investigation he has carried out in true detective spirit in the intervening
years, in Berlin and Munich, Prague and Paris, Copenhagen and Verona, and
he has now collected the results in a volume of surprising finds,
unpretentiously written and exemplary in every way.
Overwhelmed with visual stimulation as we are today, it is difficult for us
to understand the fascination that movie images exerted in Kafka’s time on
audiences ready to abandon themselves to the illusion of an art which in
many respects was still primitive, and was considered inferior by the arbiters
of good taste. But Zischler, perhaps because he has been in front of the
camera lens himself, knows all about the curiously mingled sense of
identification and alienation felt when—in the extreme case, but it is a
frequent one in the cinema—you can see yourself die. To Kafka, who was
always yearning for his own dissolution, to perish almost imperceptibly in
fugitive images running inexorably away like life itself must have been like
the temptation of Saint Anthony in the desert. According to his own account
and those of others, his eyes more than once filled with tears at the sight of
such scenes in the movie theater. Which scenes we do not know, but he may
well have felt like Peter Altenberg, who resembled him in many ways and
defended the cinema, an art despised by the “psychological clowns of
literature,” with the following reminiscence, quoted by Zischler: “My tender
fifteen-year-old girlfriend and I, a fifty-two-year-old, cried hot tears over the
nature sketch Under the Starry Sky, in which a poor French canal boat–
hauler pulls his dead fiancée upstream, slowly and with difficulty, through
blooming fields.” Kafka would surely have shed tears, too, over the French
boat hauler and his lifeless fiancée, for the picture would have suggested so
much to him: the torment of a never ending labor like some mythical
punishment, mankind out of place in natural surroundings, the story of an
unhappy engagement, untimely death. “Dearest,” he writes to Felice about a
photograph from which she looked at him with a melancholy expression,
“pictures are beautiful, we cannot do without pictures, but they torment us
too.”

We are so moved by photographic images because of the curious aura of
another world that sometimes emanates from them. Kafka, as many of his
diary notes show, could fix such pictures in the mental snapshots he took
with his sympathetic but ice-cold eye. Of Frau Tschissik the Jewish actress,
he makes a particular note about “her hair set in 2 waves and illuminated by
the gaslight,” and a little later, in his description of the same woman, he
comes to her cosmetics. “I usually hate the use of powder,” he writes, “but if
this whiteness, like a veil clinging close to the skin and of a slightly cloudy,
milky color is the effect of powder, then all women should powder
themselves.” In passages like these and many others, where the observer
(who stands a great distance away yet is consumed by longing) is absorbed
in the individual, isolated aspects of a physicality beyond his reach, for
instance the “faint white of the low neck of a blouse,” we may conjecture
that the erotic aura of such pictures—snapshots taken, so to speak, without
permission—is due to their proximity to death. For the very reason that
looking at one’s fellow men with so pitiless a gaze is forbidden, one has to
look again and again. The all-revealing, all-penetrating gaze is subject to
compulsive repetition, always wanting to reassure itself that it really did see
what it saw. Nothing is left but looking, an obsession in which real time is
suspended while, as we sometimes feel in dreams, the dead, the living, and
the still unborn come together on the same plane. When Kafka visits the
Kaiser Panorama in Friedland on a business trip in the winter of 1911, and
looks through the eyepiece into the depths of artificial space, he sees the city
of Verona populated by people “like wax figures, their soles fixed to the
ground on the sidewalk.” Two years later, he will be walking in those very
streets and feeling as remote from everything living as the wax figures he
saw in Friedland. The innermost mystery of secular metaphysics is this
strange sensation of physical absence, something evoked by what might be
called an overdeveloped gaze. Significantly enough, the customers coming
out of the twilight of the nickelodeon, and going back into the street, always
have to give themselves a little shake before they are fully in control of the
bodies they had shed as they were absorbed in looking at the panorama.
Kafka’s comments on photography suggest that he felt there was
something fundamentally uncanny about this way of copying life. Friedrich
Thieberger, for instance, remembers once meeting Kafka in the street when
he himself had an unwieldy box for making photographic enlargements
under his arm. Thieberger writes that Kafka asked, in surprise, “Taking

photographs?” and added, “That’s really rather sinister.” Then, after a short
pause, he continued, “And you enlarge them as well!” Kafka’s books too
contain many indications of the vague horror he felt at the impending
mutations of mankind as the age of technical reproduction opened, mutations
in which he probably saw the imminent end of the autonomous individuality
formed by the bourgeois culture. The freedom of movement of the heroes of
his novels and stories, which is not great to begin with, steadily undergoes
further restriction in the course of the action, while figures already called to
life by an inscrutable series of laws take over, characters such as the court
functionaries, the two idiotic assistants and the three lodgers in The
Metamorphosis, executives and officials whose purely functional, amoral
nature is obviously better suited to this new state of affairs. In the Romantic
period the doppelgänger, which first aroused a fear of mechanical
appliances, was still a haunting and exceptional phenomenon; now it is
everywhere. The whole technique of photographic copying ultimately
depends on the principle of making a perfect duplicate of the original, of
potentially infinite copying. You had only to pick up a stereoscopic card and
you could see everything twice. And because the copy lasted long after what
it had copied was gone, there was an uneasy suspicion that the original,
whether it was human or a natural scene, was less authentic than the copy,
that the copy was eroding the original, in the same way as a man meeting his
doppelgänger is said to feel his real self destroyed.
For such reasons I have always wanted to know whether Kafka ever saw
the film The Student of Prague, large parts of which were shot in his native
city in 1913; it must certainly have been screened there too. It is true that
there is no reference to it anywhere in Kafka’s letters and diaries, and
Zischler tells us nothing about it either, but we may assume that the people
of Prague did not ignore this famous product of the new cinematic art, with
its brightly lit exterior shots. Supposing that Kafka really did see the film at
this time, it would have been almost inevitable for him to recognize his own
story in that of the student Balduin who is pursued by his own likeness, just
as in the same year his reflections on a still from the film with Albert
Bassermann, Der Andere (“The Other”), on which Zischler does write at
some length, led to Kafka’s producing what Zischler calls “a snapshot of
himself.” The still, which Kafka describes to Felice, reminds him of a
production of Hamlet that he saw in Berlin, and of a part of his life that is
now behind him, a kind of legacy in which, as so often happens when one is

looking at old photographs, he is horrified to become aware of the
progressive derealization of his own person and the approach of death.
“Ghostly” is perhaps the best word to describe Bassermann’s appearance
here. Indeed, early movies are ghostly in general, and not just because their
favorite subjects included split personalities, doppelgängers and revenants,
extrasensory perception, and other parapsychological phenomena, but also
because of the way that for technical reasons the actors moved in and out of
what was still the completely motionless scene around them like ghosts
walking through a wall. Most ghostly of all, of course, is the quasi-
transcendental gaze, cultivated by the male stage actors of the time, which
found its ultimate expression in film, a gaze that seems to be bent on a life in
which the tragic hero no longer has any part. Kafka, who often felt like a
ghost among his fellow men, knew of the insatiable greed felt by the dead
for those who are still alive. All his writing can be understood as a form of
noctambulism, or the stage preceding it. “Walked in the streets for two hours
weightless, boneless, bodiless, and thought of what I have been through
while writing this afternoon,” he notes once. He imagines sending nocturnal
letters to Berlin, and he himself is the phantom who, he tells Milena, drinks
the kisses that he has sent out of the air before they can arrive. Zischler also
quotes the passage from a letter where Kafka tells us how, going home in the
electric tram, he read fragments of the posters he passed, concentrating hard.
Zischler comments that Kafka’s curiosity made him soak up such images.
They were obviously his substitute for a life that he could not have,
insubstantial nourishment from which he was constantly developing fantastic
scenarios in his dreams, both sleeping and waking, repeatedly becoming a
bizarre figure from the movies himself in those scenarios. There was a
strange episode when, so he tells Max Brod on a postcard, he felt faint at the
doctor’s, had to lie down on the couch, and suddenly “felt so very much a
girl that I attempted to put my girl’s skirt in order with my fingers.” Are not
such dream sequences like films screened in the camera obscura of his mind,
through which he moves like his own ghost? Zischler delicately probes the
currents running between reality and imagination. The films about which he
writes are really just the filter through which a new light is cast on the
intensity of an almost uninterrupted process of dreaming and mourning,
shifting between real life and fiction. Kafka’s diaries are full of accounts of
experiences in which daily life dissolves into airy pictures before our eyes,

as if in a cinematic effect. For instance, he stands on a railway station
platform, saying good-bye to the actress Frau Klug:
We … shook hands; I took off my hat and then held it to my chest, we
stepped back as one does when a train is about to start, as if to show
that all is over and one is reconciled to it. But the train did not start yet,
and we approached each other again; I was glad of that, she asked after
my sisters. All of a sudden the train slowly began to move, Frau Klug
got her handkerchief ready to wave, called that I must write to her, did I
have her address? She was already too far off for me to be able to reply
in words; I pointed to Löwy from whom I could get her address, good,
she nodded quickly to me and to him and waved her handkerchief, I
raised my hat, clumsily at first, with more ease the farther away she
was. Later I remembered my impression that the train was not really
moving away but only going the short distance through the station to
act a scene for us and then disappear. When I was half asleep that same
evening Frau Klug appeared to me, unnaturally small, almost without
legs, wringing her hands with a despairing expression, as if some great
misfortune had befallen her.
The drama of a whole life is contained in this diary note, the events cut like a
film—unrequited love, the pain of parting, a lapsing into death, the return of
a woman cheated of her happiness.
The shift into fantasy so characteristic of Kafka’s writing, also found as
something to be taken for granted in the passage just quoted, has often
tended to obscure the fact that the author’s apparently hopelessly eccentric
consciousness in fact closely reflected the social problems of his time.
Nowhere is this clearer than in Kafka’s concern with the Jewishness that was
lost to him. Characteristically, academic German literary criticism,
particularly in Germany, showed very little understanding until the 1980s of
a subject that was obviously of prime importance to Kafka himself. Even
today the critics have not really compensated for this deficiency, which is
due to an almost willful lack of understanding, and consequently Zischler’s
study of Kafka’s diary entry of October 23, 1921, is particularly interesting.
“Afternoon, Palestine film,” writes Kafka, without further comment.
Zischler explains that this film, which bore the title Shivat Zion, was a
documentary made in Jerusalem about the building of Jewish Palestine by
the pioneers there, shown by the Zionist Selbstwehr (“Self-defense”)

organization at a time when more and more Jews were thinking of
emigrating because even then their situation was becoming increasingly
difficult; it must, he says, have made a lasting impression on many of the
Prague Jews who went to the private screening at the Lido-Bio cinema.
Afterward, Zischler tells us, a film of the Eleventh Zionist Congress and
Gymnastic Exhibition in Karlsbad was shown. It is not clear whether the
gymnastic competition was a Jewish one, but that is not out of the question,
for the realization of the Zionist utopia was primarily linked with an appeal
to youth, and ideas of the physical training and physiological regeneration of
the people were very much to the fore, as indeed they had been since the
early nineteenth century in the emergent nationalist German ideology from
which Zionism always took its cue. In the image of themselves that they
projected, the two peoples, awakening from long oppression or rousing
themselves from alleged neglect, were almost exactly the same, even if their
standards and ambitions were different.
A reporter for the Selbstwehr journal, quoted by Zischler, describes how
the Sunday-morning habitués of the Lido-Bio had to wait until the first
showing of the Palestine film was over; it began at eight-thirty in the
morning. “More and more salvos of applause are heard from the interior of
the hall,” he writes, adding that a woman who had taken a look at the screen
inside told the other people waiting, “You hardly want to believe they are
Jews, they don’t look like it at all, I don’t know, but their blood must have
changed.” This story reminded me of another which, like my experience of
the flying Robert in the movie, dates from the year 1976. I had been to a
performance of Lessing’s Nathan the Wise at the Coburg Landestheater,
against my real inclinations because I dislike both the continuing misuse of
this play, which I regard as rather questionable anyway, and German
theatrical culture in general. At any rate, when what turned out to be an
unspeakable performance was over and I was on my way out I heard an
elderly lady, who must have been in full possession of her senses during the
“great days” of the German people, telling her friend in a confidential
whisper: “Well, he certainly played Nathan well. You might have thought he
was a real Jew.” So unfathomable is this utterance that anyone who
contemplates it must surely be overcome by vertigo, as indeed one is before
most of the manifestations of the German-Jewish symbiosis. The overriding
concept of those mirror-image identities is the myth of the Chosen People, to
which the Germans blindly subscribed at the time when their ideas of

national emancipation were taking a wrong turn. Whereas Herzl may still
have been trying to square the circle when he suggested that German would
be the language spoken in Zion, Hitler (somewhere in his table talk, I think)
came to a conclusion which he thought irrefutably justified the annihilation
of the Jews: there could not be two Chosen Peoples.
The “Palestine film” was the last of Kafka’s visits to the cinema
mentioned in Zischler’s book. What Kafka thought of the film we do not
know, either from him or from any other source. All that is certain is that he
did not go to the cinema very often afterward. At least he was spared
Triumph of the Will, though we may wonder what he would have thought if
he had been obliged to watch all that marching. Let me be allowed one more
discursion. According to Zischler, on September 20, 1913, the day when
Kafka, in a state of long-term depression, felt the tears come to his eyes in a
movie theater in Verona, the films Poveri bambini, Il celebro bandito
Garouche, and La lezione dell’abisso were showing in the cinemas of that
city. La lezione dell’abisso (“The Lesson of the Abyss”) was the precursor of
the heroic Alpine genre in which Leni Riefenstahl made her name two
decades later. In 1935 Riefenstahl—who, I am told, is still swimming and
diving in the blue waters of the Maldives—was shooting a film high among
the snow-white, cloud-capped mountains of Bavaria. There is nothing visible
but the sky, while the Führer, a numinous being who is never seen (the
audience views everything as if with a divine eye hovering above the world),
is in a plane approaching the city of the Meistersingers where the Reich
party rally is being held. Soon afterward he drives through the streets with a
great retinue. Of the old, touching Germany that once came into Kafka’s
mind as he leafed through Die Gartenlaube (“The Garden Arbor,” a family
magazine), there is nothing to be seen for the sheer press of human beings—
they stand shoulder to shoulder everywhere beaming, standing on projecting
vantage points, walls, stairs, balconies, hanging out of windows. The
Führer’s car moves through a positive torrent of people. And then, without
warning, comes the strange, enormously evocative series of pictures in
which, again looking down from high above, the audience sees a city of
tents. There they are, stretching as far as the eye can see: white pyramidal
structures. At first, because of the unusual perspective, you do not see
exactly what they are. Day is just dawning, and gradually, in the still twilit
landscape, people come out of the tents alone or in twos and threes, all going
the same way as if they had been called by name. The edifying effect is

rather reduced when you see the men in close-up performing their morning
ablutions bare-chested, a frequent emblem of National Socialist hygiene.
Nonetheless, a magical picture of those white tents lingers in the mind. A
people traveling through the desert. The Promised Land appears on the
horizon. They will reach it together. But eight or nine years after this vision
was recorded on film we shall have, instead, the black ruins of Nuremberg,
the city where Zischler was born in 1947 when it still lay in rubble and
ashes.
Kafka himself is known to have distrusted all utopianism. Not long before
his death he said that he had been exiled from Canaan for forty years, and
even the community which he sometimes longed for was basically suspect to
him; he wanted only to dissolve away by himself, as the water runs into the
sea. Few people ever seem to have been as much alone as Kafka appears in
the last pictures of him, to which we may add one extrapolated from them,
so to speak, and painted by Jan Peter Tripp. It shows Kafka as he might have
looked had he lived eleven or twelve years longer. That would have been in
1935. The Reich party rally would have been held, just as Riefenstahl’s film
shows it. The race laws would have come into force, and Kafka, if he had
had his photograph taken again, would have looked at us as he does from
Tripp’s ghostly picture—from beyond the grave.
*Kafka geht ins Kino, Hanns Zischler, 1996; trans. by Susan Gillespie
as Kafka Goes to the Movies, Chicago, 2003.
OceanofPDF.com

Scomber scombrus, or the Common Mackerel
ON PICTURES BY JAN PETER TRIPP
OceanofPDF.com

The two sails were billowing in the west wind, and we set a course to take
our boat cutting through the tidal current against which the mackerel, well
known to be the greediest of fish, like to swim. As day dawned we cast out
our lines. Soon we could see the barrier of the chalk cliffs in the twilit
distance, bordered on top by the narrow band of dark fields and woods, but it
was some time after that before the rays of the sun shone through the slight
waves, and the mackerel showed themselves.
Crowding close together, apparently in ever increasing numbers, they shot
past just below the surface of the water. Their stiff, torpedo-shaped bodies,
whose outstanding feature is an overdeveloped muscular system that
considerably restricts their agility, drives them straight ahead all the time. It
is almost impossible for them to rest, and they can approach a destination
only by describing a wide arc. Where exactly they go, unlike those fish
which have more settled habits, has long been and still is a mystery.
Ehrenbaum writes that in the oceans off the American and European coasts
there are regions covering many square miles, and going fathoms down into
the depths, where the mackerel can be found in thousands of millions at
certain times of the year, and that the fish disappear from them again as
suddenly as they came. Now, however, they were shining and flashing all
around us. In the blue of their backs, which has an irregular dark brown
stripe down it, purple and greenish-gold spangles sparkled in an iridescent
play of color. We had often noticed when we caught the fish that at the
moment of their death, indeed as soon as they felt the mere touch of the
strange, dry air, the iridescence quickly faded and was extinguished, fading
to a leaden hue.
The strange name of the mackerel reminds us of their wonderful
shimmering appearance in life, for Ehrenbaum tells us elsewhere that it
derives from the Latin epithet varius, or to its diminutives variolus,
variellus, varellus, meaning pied or flecked, and consequently the petite
vérole or syphilis takes its name from them, the disease that was once most
usually caught in houses where, in the French idiom, maquerelle was the
word for a madam. Very likely the connections between the life and death of
men and mackerel are far more complex than we guess. Isn’t there, I thought

as I pulled in the first line, an engraving by Grandville showing half a dozen
particularly coldblooded fish decked out in starched shirt fronts, ties, and
evening dress, sitting at a table and eating one of their own kind, or what
would be hardly less terrible one of our kind? Perhaps it is no coincidence
that to dream of fish is said to mean death.
Yet the same fish is an emblem of fertility among many peoples.
Scheftelowitz, for instance, claims that among the Jews of Tunisia it was the
custom to sprinkle mackerel scales on the pillow at weddings or on the
Sabbath eve, while the Viennese psychiatrist and anthropologist Aisenbruk,
who emigrated to California, tells us in his unjustly neglected writings that
the Tyroleans like to nail a fishtail to the parlor ceiling at Christmas.
The facts of the matter, of course, are different. None of us ultimately
knows how he may end up on someone else’s plate, or what mysteries are
hidden in that other person’s closed hand. Even if we turn to ichthyomancy
and to instruments for dissecting the mackerel, if we carefully take it apart
and question the oracle of its entrails, we shall be unlikely to get an answer,
for such things only look back at us blind and dumb—the grain in planed
wood, the silver bracelet, the aging skin, the broken eye—and tell us nothing
of the fate of our own kind. These thoughts preoccupied me until late in the
evening. We had long since returned from our fishing trip, were back on dry
land and looking out again at the gray sea, when it seemed to me as if
something triangular were gliding out there, visible only now and then
among the waves. “Perhaps it’s someone still out sailing,” said my
companion, and she added, “or else the fin of that great fish we will never
net passing us far out at sea.”

The Unwritten Commandment

Endgame
OceanofPDF.com

The Mystery of the Red-Brown Skin
AN APPROACH TO BRUCE CHATWIN
OceanofPDF.com

It is not easy to think of a contemporary German writer who would have
ventured as much from the first as that tireless traveler Bruce Chatwin, each
of whose five books, remarkable by any standards, is set in a different part of
the world. Nor could you find anyone in Germany, where the good average
mind is typical and the art of biography is held in low esteem, who after the
early death of such an author would have emulated Nicholas Shakespeare in
tracking him down in the suburbs of Birmingham, in London, on the Welsh
borders, the island of Crete, and Mount Athos, in Prague, in Patagonia,
Afghanistan, Australia, and darkest Africa, to find witnesses who could
speak of the man who passed them by like a comet.
Just as Chatwin himself ultimately remains an enigma, one never knows
how to classify his books. All that is obvious is that their structure and
intentions place them in no known genre. Inspired by a kind of avidity for
the undiscovered, they move along a line where the points of demarcation
are those strange manifestations and objects of which one cannot say
whether they are real, or whether they are among the phantasms generated in
our minds from time immemorial. Anthropological and mythological studies
in the tradition of Tristes Tropiques, adventure stories looking back to our
early childhood reading, collections of facts, dream books, regional novels,
examples of lush exoticism, puritanical penance, sweeping baroque vision,
self-denial, and personal confession—they are all these things together. It
probably does them most justice to see their promiscuity, which breaks the
mold of the modernist concept, as a late flowering of those early traveler’s
tales, going back to Marco Polo, where reality is constantly entering the
realm of the metaphysical and miraculous, and the way through the world is
taken from the first with an eye fixed on the writer’s own end.
One of Chatwin’s favorite books was Gustave Flaubert’s Trois Contes, in
particular the story of Saint Julian, who must atone for the sins of bloodshed
he has incurred by his passion for hunting on a long journey through the
hottest and coldest zones on earth: his limbs freeze and almost drop off as he
crosses the icefields, and in the blazing sun of the deserts the hair on his
head catches fire. I cannot read a page of this terrifying story, the product of
its author’s profoundly hysterical disposition, without seeing Chatwin as he

was, an ingénu driven by a panic need for knowledge and love, still like an
adolescent at the age of thirty.
Chatwin was born into a family of building contractors, architects,
lawyers, and button manufacturers who became firmly established in the
upper middle class of Birmingham during the Victorian era but who also—
how could it be otherwise under the auspices of high capitalism?—included
among their numbers some soldiers of fortune, failures, and even criminal
offenders. His father, Charles, who was called up into the navy in 1940 and
was based in Chatham, spent the war years at sea as captain of a destroyer
and was only a visitor at home, so that the child and his mother spent the
early period of his life mainly with grandparents and great-uncles and aunts,
moving easily in an extended and quasi-matriarchal society which must have
given him not so much a strict sense of family as a certain clan feeling, and
his mother’s or grandmothers’ brothers would have featured as his male role
models. One of these uncles, who was very fond of his sister’s blue-eyed
child, told the biographer that Bruce noticed everything from an early age
and looked at it like a scholar. “And I thought it important,” he added, “that
he should become articulate.”
Chatwin, according to Shakespeare’s informant, did indeed develop
extraordinary eloquence and imaginative power. Like every true storyteller
who still has links with the oral tradition, he could conjure up a setting with
his voice alone and populate that stage with characters partly real and partly
invented, moving among them just as his china collector Utz moves among
his Meissen figurines. Chatwin too, as the invisible impresario of all that is
extravagant, wears—even when he is traveling in the desert—a theatrical
robe like the housecoat that hangs in Utz’s bathroom, a masterpiece of haute
couture in quilted, peach-colored silk with appliqué roses on the shoulders
and ostrich feathers around the velvet collar.
As a pupil at Marlborough College, one of the best schools in the country,
Chatwin had a not very illustrious career, and by his own admission shone
only as an actor, particularly in female roles, for instance in plays by Noël
Coward. The art of transformation that came naturally to him, a sense of
being always onstage, an instinct for the gesture that would make an effect
on the audience, for the bizarre and the scandalous, the terrible and the
wonderful, all these were undoubtedly prerequisites of Chatwin’s ability to
write. Scarcely less important must have been his training at the London
auction house of Sotheby’s, where he gained access to the treasure chambers

of the past and acquired an idea of the singularity of artifacts, the market
value of art, the importance of craftsmanlike skill, and the necessity of
precise research energetically pursued.
But most important of all in Chatwin’s development as a writer were
surely those early moments of pure fascination when the boy crept into his
grandmother Isobel’s dining room and, looking past his own blurred
reflection, marveled at the jumble of curios arranged on the shelves of the
glass-fronted mahogany cupboard, all of them from very distant lands. It
could not even be said where some of them came from or what they had
been for; apocryphal stories clung to others.
For instance, there was a scrap of reddish fur that was kept in a pillbox,
wrapped in tissue paper. Nicholas Shakespeare tells us that this surreal object
was a wedding present to Bruce’s grandmother from her cousin Charles
Milward, a clergyman’s son who, when chastised once too often, had run
away from home and gone to sea. He was shipwrecked on the coast of
Patagonia. While he was in Patagonia one of his extraordinary ventures was
to join forces with a German gold panner and blow up a cave in Puerto
Natales, bringing to light the remains of a prehistoric animal, the giant sloth
or mylodon. He did a flourishing trade later in various body parts of the
extinct creature, but the piece of skin sent to Birmingham was a gift to his
beloved cousin.
The locked glass-fronted cupboard with its mysterious contents became,
Shakespeare writes, a central metaphor for both the content and the style of
Chatwin’s work, and the remnant of the extinct animal was his favorite
object. “Never in my life have I wanted anything as I wanted that piece of
skin,” wrote Chatwin to Sunil Sethi.
That skin, I think, is the key, and sums up the longing that sent him on his
first major expedition across the Atlantic Ocean and down through the whole
American continent, all the way to Tierra del Fuego at the other end of the
world, where he really did think he found a tuft of sloth hair in the same
cave. At least, his wife said that he brought something of the kind back from
his journey. There is no mistaking the fetishistic character of the sloth relic.
Entirely without value in itself, it inflamed and satisfied the lover’s illicit
fantasy.
Something of this fetishist greed went into his mania for gathering and
collecting, and then into turning the fragments he found into significant
mementos endowed with a wealth of meaning, reminding us of what we, as

living beings, cannot reach. This is probably the deepest of the many layers
of the writing process. The fact that Chatwin tended so much that way is the
reason why his work was read far beyond the frontiers of Great Britain. The
universality of his vision lies in the way his descriptions evoke the recurrent
themes of our imagination—an account, for instance, of an extraterritorial
region where a community of Welsh settlers who emigrated over a hundred
years ago still sing their Calvinist hymns, and where, under an ice-gray sky,
the wind constantly blowing through the thin grass stunts the trees and bends
them to the east.
The story of the shipwrecked sailor Charles Milward immediately
reminded me of Georges Perec’s autobiographical study W ou le souvenir
d’enfance (“W, or the Memory of Childhood”), a work full of the most
terrible and painful sensations and phantom anxieties, which begins with the
account of a mentally sick boy called Gaspard Winckler whose mother, a
famous soprano, takes him on a voyage around the world, hoping to cure
him, and who finally disappears somewhere off the Cape of the Eleven
Thousand Virgins or in the Todos los Santos straits. The Gaspard Winckler
story is itself the paradigm of a destroyed childhood, and not for nothing
does the similarity of name conjure up the unfortunate Kaspar Hauser.
Chatwin too saw his journeys to the ends of the earth as expeditions in
search of a lost boy, and thought he might have found him, as if in a mirror,
in Gaiman when he met the shy pianist Enrique Fernandez, who has since
died of AIDS (like Chatwin himself) at the age of forty.
The key myth, in any case, was always that piece of strange skin, a relic
that, like all mortal remains devoutly preserved and put on show, has
something perverse about it, and at the same time something pointing far
beyond the realm of the secular. It is an item that, as in Balzac’s novel La
Peau de chagrin, grants even our most secret and shameful wishes, but
shrinks a little with the bestowal of each desired object, so that the
gratification of our amorous longing is intimately related to the death wish.
In a television interview given by Chatwin not long before his death we see
him already wasted to little more than the proverbial skin and bone, with
eyes dreadfully widened, but talking with an innocent and unprecedented
passion about his last fictional character, Utz the china collector of Prague. It
is the most shattering epiphany of a writer that I know.
The reader who begins Balzac’s novel about the wild ass’s skin, which is
also and perhaps primarily the skin of grief and suffering, will soon come

upon the passage in which Rafael, still called merely “the young unknown”
at this point, enters the crumbling building several stories high where he
acquires the fateful talisman. In those dozen pages, in the description of the
lumber piled high in the storehouse, Balzac uninhibitedly sets out his whole
mania for reality and words before us in what amounts to an act of authorial
prostitution, but at the same time he reveals insights in the depths of the
dreaming imagination. In the fantastic storehouse, designed as a kind of
casket containing the world and inhabited by a desiccated little man over a
hundred years old, the writings of the geologist Cuvier are recommended to
Rafael as true works of poetry. In reading them, says the assistant leading
him through the galleries of the emporium, you will glide over the unlimited
chasms of the past, raised aloft by his genius, and as you discover the fossils
of antediluvian creatures stratum by stratum in the stone quarries of
Montmartre and the shale of the Urals, your soul will shrink with dismay at
the sight of the billions of years and millions of nations forgotten by the
short memory of mankind.
OceanofPDF.com

Moments musicaux
OceanofPDF.com

In September 1996, on a walking tour on the island of Corsica, I happened to
be sitting during my first rest day in a grassy clearing on the outskirts of the
Aitone forest, which lies at high altitude. I looked across hollows and
valleys, deep blue to almost black in their depths, and saw a semicircle of
granite crags and peaks, many of them towering up to a height of two and a
half thousand meters or more. To the west was a wall of cloud looming
darker and darker, but as yet the air was so still that not a blade of grass
stirred. An hour later, when I had reached Evisa just as the storm broke and
had taken refuge in the Café des Sports there, I spent a long time looking
through the open door at the torrential rain slanting down into the street. The
only other guest was an old man already equipped for the winter months in a
woolen jacket and an old army anorak.
His eyes, dimmed by cataract, which he tilted slightly toward the light as a
blind man would, were of the same ice-gray as the pastis in his glass. It did
not seem to me that he had noticed the woman of curiously theatrical
appearance who passed by under her umbrella a little later, or the half-grown
pig that was following her. He kept looking up all the time, and as he did so
he turned the six-sided stem of his glass jerkily with the thumb and
forefinger of his right hand, as regularly as if he had the clockwork of a
watch inside his breast instead of a heart. The sound of a kind of Turkish
death march came from a cassette recorder behind the bar, and now and then
a high-pitched laryngeal male voice sang, reminding me of the first musical
sounds I ever heard in my childhood.
For immediately after the war there was almost no music at all in the
village of W. on the northern outskirts of the Alps, apart from occasional
performances by the severely depleted yodelers’ group and the solemn music
of the wind band, itself now reduced to a few elderly instrumentalists, which
played for processions going around the fields and on Corpus Christi Day.
Neither we nor our neighbors had a gramophone at this time, and the new
Grundig radio that Aunt Therés in New York bought us just before I began
school in 1950, for the fabulous sum of five hundred marks, was hardly ever
switched on during the week, probably because it stood in the parlor and no
one used the parlor on working days. Early on a Sunday morning, however, I

would hear the Rottachtal ensemble or other local musicians on the radio
with their dulcimers and guitars, for my father, who came home only on
weekends, had a particular liking for this kind of traditional Bavarian folk
music, which to me has taken on in retrospect the character of something
terrible which I know will pursue me to my grave. A few years ago, for
instance, after spending a restless night in the Hotel Kaiserin Elisabeth in
Starnberg, I was woken from the sleep into which I fell at last toward
morning by a clock-radio broadcasting two such Rottachtal folksingers,
whom I could only imagine, judging from the sounds they produced from
the radio’s tinny interior, as deformed and infirm; they were performing one
of their merry songs about martens and foxes and all kinds of other animals,
with each of its many verses ending in a Holadroo-yoohoo, holladree-yo.
The ghostly impression made on me by the Rottachtal singers trapped
inside the radio that Sunday morning, when all was overcast by dense mists
rising from the lake, was reinforced in a most uncanny way a few days later
after my return to England, when I was searching through a box full of old
photographs in a junk shop near Bethnal Green underground station in the
East End of London, and almost to my horror came upon one of those
picture postcards produced by the International Postal Union around the turn
of the century, showing a painted panorama of the Allgäu mountains in snow
and in front of it the Oberstdorf folk dancers in their traditional costumes,
adorned with embroidered sprigs of edelweiss, tufts of chamois hair,
cockerel feathers, silver talers, stag’s teeth, and similar tribal emblems. On
finding this card, which had no message written on the back and which must
certainly have gone on a long journey, I really felt as if the ten costumed
men and women of Oberstdorf had been lying in wait for me here in their
dusty English exile, just to remind me that I would never be able to escape
the early history of my native land, where costumes and tradition played a
not insignificant part.
After we had moved, in December 1952, from our home in W. to the small
town of S. nineteen kilometers away, with the aid of the Alpenvogel moving
van, my musical horizons were gradually extended. I listened to Bereyter,
our teacher, who always took his clarinet with him in an old kneesock on our
class outings, just like the philosopher Wittgenstein, and played a number of
beautiful pieces and arching melodic phrases, although without knowing that
they were from the works of Mozart or Brahms, or an opera by Vincenzo
Bellini. Many years later, when by one of those mere coincidences that are

really no such thing I switched on the car radio one night while driving
home, I was just in time to hear the theme from the second movement of
Brahms’s Clarinet Quintet that Bereyter had so often played, and recognized
it again after all the time that had passed. At that moment of recognition I
felt touched by the sensation, so rare in our emotional lives, of almost
complete weightlessness.
Such was the enthusiasm inspired in me by Bereyter that at the time, in
the summer of 1953, I wanted to learn the clarinet myself. But we had no
clarinet at home, only a zither, so I had to go twice a week past the long wall
of the riflemen’s barracks to Ostrachstrasse, where Kerner the music teacher
lived in a little terraced house with a tiled roof, and a dark, turbulent sawmill
canal flowing little more than five or six meters behind it, a canal from
whose waters drowned bodies had quite often been pulled, as I could never
help remembering at the sight of it, the most recent being the body of a boy
of six whose brother was in my class at school.
Kerner the music teacher, a rather gloomy and melancholy man, had a
daughter of my own age called Kathi, a child prodigy known even abroad
who had appeared in Munich, Vienna, Milan, and God knows where else.
Whenever I came for my zither lesson she was out of sight behind a closed
door, seated under her mama’s supervision at the grand piano, which filled
the whole parlor. The mighty rise and fall of the cascading notes of the
sonatas and concertos she was practicing made their way into the cramped
little cubbyhole of a study where I was toiling away on the zither, while
Kerner sat beside me, impatiently tapping his ruler on the edge of the table
when my fingering was wrong. Playing the zither was a torment to me, and
the zither itself a kind of rack on which you twisted and turned in vain and
which left your fingers crooked, even leaving aside the ridiculous nature of
the little pieces written for the instrument.
Only once, and at the end, as it was to turn out, of my three years of zither
lessons, did I willingly take out of its case the instrument I had come to hate:
when my grandfather, whom I loved dearly, lay dying during the first föhn
storm after the Siberian winter of 1956, and as he drowsed, half unconscious
already, I played him the few pieces I did not loathe from the bottom of my
heart, ending, as I still remember, with a slow ländler in C major, which
even as I played it, or so it appears to me now, seemed to be very long drawn
out and to go on in slow motion as if it would never end.

I do not think that at the time, aged twelve, I could have guessed
something I read much later, in one of Sigmund Freud’s studies unless I am
much mistaken: an observation that immediately struck me as convincing,
suggesting that the deepest secret of music is that it is a gesture warding off
paranoia, and we make music to defend ourselves against being
overwhelmed by the terrors of reality. But after that April day I refused to go
to any more zither lessons or even to touch the instrument again.
Among those moments musicaux which were accompanied by a first shadow
cast over the feelings and which I have never been able to put out of my
mind is, as it happens, a silent scene. In the single-story annex of the half-
ruined railway station of S., which was closed down after the war, Zobel the
conductor of the choir gave music lessons twice a week late in the afternoon.
Especially in the winter months, when everything around was already dark, I
would often stop outside what had once been the little waiting room on my
way home to watch the music master in the bright lamplight inside, a thin
and rather crooked figure conducting the muted music that I could hardly
hear through the double window, or bending over the shoulder of one of his
pupils. Among them were two to whom I felt particularly drawn: Regina
Tobler, who tilted her head so prettily against her viola as she played that I
felt a strange tugging in the region of the heart, and Peter Buchner, moving
his bow back and forth over the strings of his double bass with an expression
of utter bliss. Peter, who was so long-sighted that he had to wear glasses
which made his moss-colored eyes look at least twice as large as they really
were, wore the same buckskin breeches and green jacket all the year round.
Since he had no proper case for his instrument, which was much mended
with sticking plaster, and anyway he could not have carried such a case from
the Tannach housing project, where he lived, to the middle of town, he tied
his double bass, usually covered with a piece of flower-patterned oilcloth, to
a little handcart with string, and fixed the axle of the cart to his bicycle
carrier, so that Peter was to be seen several times a week before or after the
evening music lesson cycling from the Tannach project to the old railway
station, or back from the old station to the Tannach project, sitting curiously
upright on the saddle, his Tyrolean hat worn sideways on his head and his
rucksack over his shoulder with the bow of the double bass sticking out of it,
pulling the rattling little handcart along behind him either up or down
Grüntenstrasse.

Zobel, the music teacher and conductor of the choir, was also organist of
the parish church of St. Michael, from which he barely escaped with his life
on Sunday, April 29, 1945, when the tower suffered a direct hit during high
mass. For an hour, I was told, the music master wandered around among the
bombs that were still exploding everywhere in the lower part of town, and
the falling buildings, until just as the all-clear sounded he entered the
sickroom where his wife had been lying for months; he was covered from
head to foot with plaster dust and looked like the specter of the catastrophe
that had befallen S.
A good decade later—the bells had long ago been hung in the rebuilt
tower again—I always climbed to the loft during mass on Sunday to watch
the music master playing the organ. As I remember, he once remarked to me
there was something wrong with the singing of the congregation assembled
down in the nave, and said you could always pick out the people who sang
out of tune from all the others. Easily the loudest of the untuneful singers
was a certain Adam Herz, said to be a runaway monk, who made a living as
a cowman on his uncle Anselm’s farm.
Every Sunday, Adam Herz stood on the extreme right of the back row of
pews, and thus beside the steps up to the organ loft, where the enclosure in
which for centuries lepers were penned during divine service used to stand.
With the fervor of a man driven mad by a terrible grief of the soul, Herz
bawled out the Catholic hymns, all of which he knew by heart. His face was
turned up and wore an expression of torment; his chin was thrust forward
and his eyes were closed. Summer and winter alike, he wore a sturdy pair of
hobnailed boots on his bare feet and a pair of working trousers that were
covered with cow manure and scarcely reached his ankles, and even in the
iciest weather neither shirt nor vest, but only an old overcoat, his bony chest
covered with curly gray hair visible between its lapels, as it strikes me today
just like poor Barnabas’s chest under his messenger’s suit in The Castle.
The music master, who played the accompaniment to the usual couple of
dozen hymns loudly sung by the congregation more or less half asleep, came
back to his proper senses again only at the end of Mass, when he virtually
swept the herd of the faithful out of the church door with the storm of music
he unleashed in his improvisations on the organ. As he played there in the
church, which was soon empty and thus twice as resonant, performing
variations in the boldest, indeed most reckless manner on a theme from
Haydn’s Creation, a symphony of Bruckner or another of his favorite works,

his slightly built upper body moved back and forth like a metronome, and his
bright patent-leather shoes seemed to me to dance a positive pas de deux on
the pedals, independently of the rest of him. He pulled out stop after stop,
until the waves of sound coming from the organ pipes threatened, as I
sometimes feared, to bring down the structure of the world itself, and he
reached the climax in a last extreme crashing of chords, whereupon the
music master suddenly broke off with a curious rigidity that involuntarily
came over him at that moment, listening for a little longer to the silence
flooding back into the trembling air, with a happy expression on his face.
If you went from the parish church up the former Ritter-von-Epp-Strasse
toward the middle of the town of S. you passed the Ochsenwirt inn, where
the Liedertafel, or singing society, met to perform every Saturday in the
festive hall, which stood empty during the week. I remember that once,
when everything was buried deep in snow, I was lured by the sounds, strange
to me, coming from the Ochsenwirt into the soundless winter air, went into
the hall, and there, all alone in the dim light, watched a rehearsal of the
closing scene of the opera that, as I had already heard, was soon to be
performed on the stage, which still dated from before the First World War
and seemed to me miles away at that rehearsal.
I did not know what an opera was at the time, nor could I imagine what it
might have to do with the three figures in costume and the shining dagger
held first by Zweng the distiller and then by Gschwendtner the upholsterer,
finally passing to the tobacconist Bella Unsinn, but I could tell from the
despairing, intertwining voices that the scene unfolding before my eyes
could only be a tragic one, even before Franz Gschwendtner took his own
life, and Bella next moment sank unconscious to the ground.
And how surprised I was to see this tragic closing scene, which until then
I had almost entirely forgotten, in a London cinema thirty years later,
performed incredibly enough in almost identical costumes. Klaus Kinski,
with his yellow hair standing out from his head as if electrified, stares out of
the background of the stalls in the Teatro Amazonas of Manaus at the point
when the action of the opera, set in the sixteenth century among Spanish
grandees and mountain brigands, is just reaching the last of its many turns of
fortune. Silva, wrapped in a black cloak, has handed the dagger to Hernani,
played by Caruso in a kind of maternity smock. Hernani plunges it into his
breast, rises heroically once more to the upper registers of song, and then

falls sideways at the feet of the inconsolable Elvira, or rather Sarah
Bernhardt, who shortly before, in an unprecedented bravura achievement,
has come down the stone steps of the castle with her wooden leg.
Her face made up to look as white as a sheet, and clad in a rather shabby
gray-blue lace dress, the actress looked exactly like Bella Unsinn thirty years
earlier on the stage of the Ochsenwirt, while Enrico Caruso, who
Fitzcarraldo believes pointed to him in the last moment of his life, looked
with his broad-brimmed brigand’s hat, twirled mustache, and purple tights
just like Gschwendtner the upholsterer as I remembered him.
The closing sequence of the film Fitzcarraldo also had special
associations for me. Amid unspeakable difficulties, a path is cut through the
jungle and the steamer is hauled by means of primitive winches over the
mountain crest between the two rivers until finally, when the mad plan has
been as good as realized, it rocks gently in the water again. On the night of
the festivities, however, the Jívaros, wishing to take another route, cut the
cable and the steamer goes racing out of control down to the valley, between
the rocky walls of the Pongo des Muertas. Fitzcarraldo and his Dutch captain
see nothing but disaster coming, while the Jívaros, gathered on deck, merely
look ahead in silence, believing that it is not far now to the better country
they long for.
And in fact the ship does miraculously escape the cataracts of death.
Somewhat battered and out of shape, but with the elegance of a prima donna,
it moves out of the dark jungle in a great arc on the river, which is radiant
with bright light. This is the hour of salvation in which—another miracle—
news comes of the arrival in Manaus of an Italian company with an opera by
Bellini, and here they come in several boats, to climb aboard and begin to
play and sing. Behind the Puritans’ pointed hats rises the cardboard backdrop
of the mountains, which the libretto assures us are near Southampton.
Chubby-cheeked Indians blow the French horn more beautifully than angels,
and Rodolfo and the crazed Elvira, who has regained her reason now that the
plot has taken a happy turn, unite their voices in a duet raised by the
separation of their bodies to a state of pure bliss, ending with the words
Benedici a tanto amore. All this time the ship of fools is drifting down the
silvery river, so Fitzcarraldo’s dream of an opera in the middle of the
wilderness at last comes true. He himself stands leaning on a red theater seat
smoking an enormous cigar, listening to the wonderful music and feeling the
slight breeze of their passage on his brow.

I encountered I Puritani for the first time at the age of twenty-two, in the
house of a colleague who was a Bellini enthusiast and lived on Fairfield
Avenue in Manchester, not far from Palatine Road, where the young
engineering student Ludwig Wittgenstein stayed in 1908. It was a day as fine
as another more than twenty years later, when I was sitting in my garden
with a bad headache after finishing a work about torture that had occupied
me for some time, and I heard the same opera again through the open
window, broadcast from Bregenz. I still remember my sensations as the
painkillers gradually began to work, and I felt the music of Bellini mingling
with their analgesic effect like a relief and a blessing. I could hardly take in
the fact that in addition it came through the summery blue of the ether from
Bregenz, for the Bregenz Festival was inextricably bound up in my memory
with the Singspiel Zar und Zimmermann, always performed in the lakeside
theater there year after year without fail.
The Bregenz Festival and the clog dance had been one and the same thing
in my mind as far back as I can remember. If you went from S. to Bregenz
on the Alpenvogel bus, you were going there to see the clog dance. The clog
dance, along with various pieces by the composer Flotow and the famous
aria from the Evangelimann, used to be the music that always came top in
the Sunday request concert broadcast every Sunday by Bavarian Radio; we
regularly listened to it at home after the children’s program. Nothing could
compete, except perhaps the Don Cossacks and the Soldier on the Banks of
the Volga, or the chorus of captives from Nabucco.
I could not really account for the nature of this potpourri at the time, but
today it seems to me that these dubious German preferences had something
to do with the time when the sons of the fatherland were sent east. So
dazzlingly bright were the vast Ukrainian fields of grain, I read not long ago,
that many of the German soldiers who passed through them in the summer
of 1942 wore sunglasses or snow goggles to avoid damaging their eyes.
When the 16th Panzer Division reached the Volga at Rynok north of
Stalingrad on August 23 as the light was fading, they saw beyond the
opposite bank a country of deep green woods and fields apparently
stretching away to infinity. Some of them, we know, dreamed of settling here
after the war; others may have sensed already that they would never return
from that distant land.

Teure Heimat, wann seh’ ich dick wieder (“Dear homeland, when shall I see
you again?”) runs the opening of the German version of the chorus “Va
pensiero,” and in a way it was code for the vague feeling, never to be uttered
aloud, that the Germans were the real victims of the war. Only in the
aftermath of the so-called reparations did anyone think of giving the
Hebrews their own rights and, for instance in a production of Nabucco at
Bregenz in the mid-nineties, making the anonymous slaves into real Jews in
striped uniforms. Soon after the beginning of that particular season I took
part, as I still regret, in one of the events in the framework program of the
festival, and in addition to my fee was given two tickets for the performance
of Nabucco that evening. Holding these tickets, I stood undecided outside
the theater until the last of the spectators had disappeared through the
entrances: undecided because with every passing year I find it increasingly
impossible to mingle with an audience; undecided because I did not want to
see the chorus dressed in costume as concentration camp inmates; and
undecided because I saw a storm coming up behind the Pfänder and unlike
other visitors to the festival had not thought of bringing an umbrella. As I
stood there a young lady came up to me, probably because I looked like
someone let down by his companion, and asked whether by any chance I had
a spare ticket. She had come a long way, she said, and was disappointed to
find that there were no tickets available at the box office. When I gave her
my two tickets and wished her a pleasant evening she thanked me, a little
dismayed to find that I did not want to see the Bregenz performance of
Nabucco with her, as she might well have expected.
Half an hour after missing this opportunity I was sitting on the balcony of
my hotel room. Thunder rolled across the sky; the rain soon began pouring
down and it suddenly turned very cold, which did not surprise me, for it had
snowed the day before in the upper Engadine even though it was
midsummer. Now and then lightning flashed, briefly lighting up the Alpine
garden that covered the whole slope behind the hotel. It had been laid out in
long years of work by a man called Josef Hoflehner, with whom I had struck
up a conversation on the afternoon when I saw him working in his rockery.
Josef Hoflehner, who must have been well over eighty, told me that during
the last war he was a prisoner in a wood-cutting squad in Scotland, working
in Inverness and all over the Highlands. He had been a schoolteacher by
profession, he told me, first in upper Austria and then in Vorarlberg. I don’t
remember what made me ask him where he had trained, but I remember he

told me it was in Kundmanngasse in Vienna, in the same institution and at
the same time as Wittgenstein. He called Wittgenstein a prickly character,
but would say no more about him.
Before going to sleep that evening in Bregenz, I read the last pages of a
biography of Verdi, and perhaps for that reason I dreamed of the way the
people of Milan, when the maestro lay dying in January 1901, put down
straw in the street outside his house to muffle the sound of the horses’
hooves, so that he could pass away in peace. In my dream I saw the street in
Milan covered with straw, and the carriages and cabs driving soundlessly up
and down it. At the end of the street, however, which went uphill at a
curiously steep angle, there was a deep black sky with lightning flashing
over it, just like the sky Wittgenstein saw as a boy of six from the balcony of
the family’s summer house on the Hochreith.
OceanofPDF.com

An Attempt at Restitution
OceanofPDF.com

I can still see us in the days before Christmas 1949 in our living room above
the Engelwirt inn in Wertach. My sister was eight at the time, I myself was
five, and neither of us had yet really got accustomed to our father, who since
his return from a French POW camp in February 1947 had been employed in
the local town of Sonthofen as a manager (as he put it), and was at home
only from Saturday to midday on Sunday. In front of us, open on the table,
lay the new Quelle mail-order catalog, the first I ever saw, containing what
seemed to me a fairy-tale assortment of wares, from which it was decided in
the course of the evening and after long discussions, in which our father got
his sensible way, to order a pair of camel’s-hair slippers with metal buckles
for each of us children. I think zip fastenings were still quite rare at the time.
But in addition to the camel’s-hair slippers we ordered a card game called
the Cities Quartet based on pictures of the cities of Germany, and we often
played it during the winter months either when our father was at home or
when there was another visitor to make a fourth. Have you got Oldenburg,
we asked, have you got Wuppertal, have you got Worms? I learned to read
from these names, which I had never heard before. I remember that it was a
long time before I could imagine anything about these cities, so different did
they sound from the local place-names of Kranzegg, Jungholz, and
Unterjoch, except the places shown on the cards in the game: the giant
Roland, the Porta Nigra, Cologne Cathedral, the Crane Gate in Danzig, the
fine houses around a large square in Breslau.
In fact, in the Cities Quartet, as I reconstruct it from memory, Germany
was still undivided—at the time of course I thought nothing of that—and not
only undivided but intact, for the uniformly dark brown pictures of the cities,
which gave me at an early age the idea of a dark fatherland, showed the
cities of Germany without exception as they had been before the war: the
intricate gables below the citadel of the Nürnberger Burg, the half-timbered
houses of Brunswick, the Holsten Gate of the Old Town in Lübeck, the
Zwinger and the Brühl Terraces.
The Cities Quartet marked not only the beginning of my career as a reader
but the start of my passion for geography, which emerged soon after I began
school: a delight in topography that became increasingly compulsive as my

life went on and to which I have devoted endless hours bending over atlases
and brochures of every kind. Inspired by the Cities Quartet, I soon found
Stuttgart on the map. I saw that compared with the other German cities it
was not too far from us. But I could not imagine a journey to it, any more
than I could think what the city itself might look like, for whenever I thought
of Stuttgart all I could see was the picture of Stuttgart Central Station on one
of the cards in the game, a bastion of natural stone designed by the architect
Paul Bonatz before the First World War, as I later learned, and completed
soon after it, a building that in its angular brutalist architecture already to
some extent anticipated what was to come, perhaps even, if I may be
permitted so fanciful a mental leap, anticipated the few lines written by an
English schoolgirl of about fifteen (judging by the clumsy handwriting) on
holiday in Stuttgart to a Mrs. J. Winn in Saltburn in the county of Yorkshire
on the back of a picture postcard, which came into my hands at the end of
the 1960s in a Salvation Army junk shop in Manchester, and which shows
three other tall buildings in Stuttgart and Bonatz’s railway station, curiously
enough from exactly the same viewpoint as in our long-lost German Cities
Quartet game.
Betty, for such was the name of the girl spending the summer in Stuttgart,
writes on August 10, 1939, barely three weeks before the outbreak of the
Second World War—when my father was already approaching the Polish
border in Slovakia with his convoy of trucks—Betty writes that the people in
Stuttgart are very friendly, and she has “been out tramping, sunbathing and
sightseeing, to a German birthday party, to the pictures and to a festival of
the Hitler Youth.”
I acquired this card, with the picture of the railway station and the
message on the back, on one of my long walks through the city of
Manchester, before I had ever been to Stuttgart myself. When I was growing
up in the Allgäu in the postwar period you did not travel much, and if you
did go for an outing now and then as the “economic miracle” set in, it was
by bus to the Tyrol, to Vorarlberg, or at most into Switzerland. There was no
call for excursions to Stuttgart or any of the other cities that still looked so
badly damaged, and so until I left my native land at the age of twenty-one it
was still largely unknown territory to me, remote and with something not
quite right about it.
It was May 1976 when I first got out of a train at Bonatz’s station, for
someone had told me that the painter Jan Peter Tripp, with whom I had been

to school in Oberstdorf, was living in Reinsburgstrasse in Stuttgart. I
remember that visit to him as a remarkable occasion, because with the
admiration I immediately felt for Tripp’s work it also occurred to me that I
too would like to do something one day besides giving lectures and holding
seminars. At the time Tripp gave me a present of one of his engravings,
showing the mentally ill judge Daniel Paul Schreber with a spider in his
skull—what can there be more terrible than the ideas always scurrying
around our minds?—and much of what I have written later derives from this
engraving, even in my method of procedure: in adhering to an exact
historical perspective, in patiently engraving and linking together apparently
disparate things in the manner of a still life.
I have kept asking myself since then what the invisible connections that
determine our lives are, and how the threads run. What, for instance, links
my visit to Reinsburgstrasse with the fact that in the years immediately after
the war it contained a camp for so-called displaced persons, a place which
was raided on March 20, 1946, by about a hundred and eighty Stuttgart
police officers, in the course of which, although the raid discovered nothing
but a black market trade in a few hen’s eggs, several shots were fired and
one of the camp inmates, who had only just been reunited with his wife and
two children, lost his life.
Why can I not get such episodes out of my mind? Why, when I take the S-
Bahn toward Stuttgart city center, do I think every time we reach Feuersee
Station that the fires are still blazing above us, and since the terrors of the
last war years, even though we have rebuilt our surroundings so wonderfully
well, we have been living in a kind of underground zone? Why did it seem to
the traveler on a winter night, coming from Möhringen and getting his first
sight from the back of a taxi of the new administrative complex of the firm
of Daimler, that the network of lights glittering in the darkness was like a
constellation of stars spreading all over the world, so that these Stuttgart
stars are visible not only in the cities of Europe, the boulevards of Beverly
Hills and Buenos Aires, but wherever columns of trucks with their cargos of
refugees move along the dusty roads, obviously never stopping, in the zones
of devastation that are always spreading somewhere, in the Sudan, Kosovo,
Eritrea, or Afghanistan?
And how far is it from the point where we find ourselves today back to the
late eighteenth century, when the hope that mankind could improve and learn
was inscribed in handsomely formed letters in our philosophical firmament?

At the time Stuttgart, nestling amid vineyards and overgrown slopes, was a
little place of some twenty thousand souls, some of whom, as I once read,
lived on the top floors of the towers of the collegiate church. One of the sons
of the country, Friedrich Hölderlin, proudly addresses this small, still sleepy
little Stuttgart where cattle were driven into the marketplace early in the
morning to drink from the black marble fountains, as the princess of his
native land, and asks her, as if he already guessed at the coming dark turn
that history and his own life would take: receive me kindly, stranger that I
am. Gradually an epoch of violence then unfolds, and with it comes personal
misfortune. The giant strides of the Revolution, writes Hölderlin, present a
monstrous spectacle. The French forces invade Germany. The Sambre-Maas
army moves toward Frankfurt, where after heavy bombardment the utmost
confusion reigns. With the Gontard household, Hölderlin has fled that city
for Kassel by way of Fulda.* On his return he is increasingly torn between
his wishful imaginings and the real impossibility of his love, which
transgresses against the class system. Yes, he sits for days on end with
Susette in the garden cabinet or the arbor, but he feels the humiliating aspect
of his position all the more oppressive. So he must leave again. He has gone
on so many walking tours in his life of barely thirty years, in the Rhone
mountains, the Harz, to the Knochenberg, to Halle and Leipzig, and now,
after the Frankfurt fiasco, back to Nürtingen and Stuttgart.
Soon afterward he sets off again to Hauptwil in Switzerland, accompanied
by friends through the wintry Schönbuch to Tübingen, then alone up the
rugged mountain and down the other side, on the lonely road to
Sigmaringen. It is twelve hours’ walk from there to the lake. A quiet journey
across the water. The next year, after a brief stay with his family, he is on the
road again through Colmar, Isenheim, Belfort, Besançon, and Lyon, going
west and southwest, passing through the lowlands of the upper Loire in mid-
January, crossing the dreaded heights of the Auvergne deep as they are in
snow, going through storms and wilderness until he finally reaches
Bordeaux. You will be happy here, Consul Meyer tells him on his arrival, but
six months later, exhausted, distressed, eyes flickering, and dressed like a
beggar he is back in Stuttgart. Receive me kindly, stranger that I am. What
exactly happened to him? Was it that he missed his love, could he not
overcome his social disadvantage, had he after all seen too far ahead in his
misfortune? Did he know that the fatherland would turn away from his
vision of peace and beauty, that soon those like him would be watched and

locked up, and there would be no place for him but the tower? A quoi bon la
littérature?
Perhaps only to help us to remember, and teach us to understand that some
strange connections cannot be explained by causal logic, for instance the
connection between the former princely residence of Stuttgart, later an
industrial city, and the French town of Tulle, which is built on seven hills—
Elle a des prétentions, cette ville, a lady living there wrote to me some time
ago, That town has grand ideas of itself—between Stuttgart, then, and Tulle
in the Corrèze region through which Hölderlin passed on his way to
Bordeaux, and where on June 9, 1944, exactly three weeks after I first saw
the light of day in the Seefeld house in Wertach, and almost exactly a
hundred and one years after Hölderlin’s death, the entire male population of
the town was driven together in the grounds of an armaments factory by the
SS Das Reich division, intent on retribution. Ninety-nine of them, men of all
ages, were hanged from the lampposts and balconies of the Souilhac quarter
in the course of that dark day, which still overshadows the memories of the
town of Tulle. The rest were deported to forced-labor camps and
extermination camps, to Natzweiler, Flossenbürg, and Mauthausen, where
many were worked to death in the stone quarries.
So what is literature good for? Am I, Hölderlin asked himself, to fare like
the thousands who in their springtime days lived in both foreboding and
love, but were seized by the avenging Parcae on a drunken day, secretly and
silently betrayed, to do penance in the dark of an all too sober realm where
wild confusion prevails in the treacherous light, where they count slow time
in frost and drought, and man still praises immortality in sighs alone? The
synoptic view across the barrier of death presented by the poet in these lines
is both overshadowed and illuminated, however, by the memory of those to
whom the greatest injustice was done. There are many forms of writing; only
in literature, however, can there be an attempt at restitution over and above
the mere recital of facts, and over and above scholarship. A place that is at
the service of such a task is therefore very appropriate in Stuttgart, and I
wish it and the city that harbors it well for the future.
*The famous poet Friedrich Hölderlin (1770–1843) grew up in
Nörtingen near Stuttgart. He had an unhappy love affair with the wife
of his employer, the banker J. F. Gontard, in whose house he was a
tutor. Around 1802 he showed the first signs of psychological

distrubance, and spent most of the rest of his life suffering from
mental illness. Much of his poetry celebrates the ideals of ancient
Greece.
OceanofPDF.com

Acceptance Speech to the Collegium of the German
Academy
OceanofPDF.com

Born as I was in the Allgäu in 1944, I did not for some time perceive or
understand any of the destruction that was present at the beginning of my
life. Now and then, as a child, I heard adults speak of a coup, but I had no
idea what a coup was. The first glimmerings of our terrible past came to me,
I believe, one night at the end of the 1940s when the sawmill in the Plätt
burned down, and everyone ran out of the houses on the edge of town to
stare at the sheaf of flames flaring high into the black night. Later, at school,
more was made of the campaigns of Alexander the Great and Napoleon than
of what then lay only fifteen years in the past. Even at university I learned
almost nothing of recent German history. German studies in those years were
a branch of scholarship stricken with almost premeditated blindness, and as
Hebel would have said, rode a pale horse. For a whole winter semester we
spent a proseminar stirring The Golden Pot, without once discussing the
relation in which that strange story stands to the time immediately preceding
its composition, to the fields of corpses outside Dresden and the hunger and
*
epidemic disease in the city on the Elbe at that period. Only when I went to
Switzerland in 1965, and a year later to England, did ideas of my native
country begin to form from a distance in my head, and these ideas, in the
thirty years and more that I have now lived abroad, have grown and
multiplied. To me, the whole Republic has something curiously unreal about
it, rather like a never-ending déjà vu. Only a guest in England, I still hover
between feelings of familiarity and dislocation there too. Once I dreamed,
and like Hebel I had my dream in Paris, that I was unmasked as a traitor to
my country and a fraud. Not least because of such misgivings, my admission
to the Academy is very welcome, and an unhoped-for form of justification.
* E.T.A. Hoffmann’s Der Goldne Topf of 1814.
OceanofPDF.com

NOTES
OceanofPDF.com

STRANGENESS, INTEGRATION, AND CRISIS
1 Peter Handke, Kaspar, Frankfurt 1969, p. 12 Eng., Plays: 1, Kaspar,
tr. Michael Roloff, New York and London, 1969, 1972, p. 57.
2 Jakob Wassermann, Caspar Hauser, Frankfurt, 1968, p. 5; Eng.,
Caspar Hauser, tr. Michael Hulse, Harmondsworth, Eng., 1992, p. 3.
3 Friedrich Nietzsche, Unzeitgemässe Betrachtungen, Stuttgart, 1964,
p. 101; Eng., Unmodern Observations, ed. W. Arrowsmith, New
Haven and London, 1990, p. 88.
4 Ibid., p. 109; Eng., p. 91.
5 Caspar Hauser, p. 16; Eng., p. 13.
6 Ibid.; Eng., p. 14.
7 Cf. Kaspar, p. 99; Eng., Kaspar, p. 139; Caspar Hauser, p. 20; Eng.,
p. 18; Rudolf Bilz, Studien über Angst und Schmerz—
Paläoanthropologie vol. 1/2, Frankfurt, 1961, p. 278.
8 Franz Kafka, Erzählungen, Frankfurt, 1961, p. 158; Eng., Stories
1904–1924, tr. J.A. Underwood, New York, 1981, p. 222.
9 Hugo von Hofmannsthal, Terzinen—Über die Vergänglichkeit,
Frankfurt, 1957, p. 16.
10 David Cooper, Death of the Family, London, 1971, p. 11.
11 Peter Handke, “Die Dressur der Objekte,” in Ich bin ein Bewohner
des Elfenbeinturms, Frankfurt, 1972, p. 145.
12 Ibid., p. 144.
13 Ibid., p. 145.
14 Peter Handke, Ritt über den Bodensee, Frankfurt, 1972, p. 95; Eng.,
Plays: I, The Ride Across Lake Constance, tr. Michael Roloff,
London, 1973, p. 227.
15 Cf. Robert Musil, Der Mann ohne Eigenschaften, Berlin, 1930, p.
496; Eng., The Man Without Qualities, tr. E. Wilkins and E. Kaiser,
London, 1954, vol. II, p. 318.

16 Kaspar, p. 20; Eng., p. 64.
17 Ibid., p. 21; Eng., p. 65.
18 Lars Gustafsson, “Die Maschinen,” in Utopien, Munich, 1970, p. 39.
19 Kaspar, p. 50; Eng., p. 93f.
20 Ibid., p. 75f.; Eng., p. 117f.
21 Ibid., p. 55; Eng., p. 99.
22 This and the two following quotations are from ibid., p. 56; Eng., p.
100.
23 Ibid., p. 57; Eng., p. 101.
24 This and the following quotation are from ibid., p. 58; Eng., pp. 101,
102.
25 This and the following quotation are from ibid., p. 92; Eng., p. 133.
26 Ibid., p. 31; Eng., p. 75.
27 This and the following quotation are from ibid., p. 93.
28 Ibid., p. 100f.; Eng., p. 140.
29 From the introduction to the German version of David Cooper,
Psychiatry and Anti-Psychiatry (London, 1967); Ger. Psychiatrie und
Antipsychiatrie (Frankfurt, 1971), p. ii.
30 Peter Handke, Wunschloses Unglück, Frankfurt, 1974, p. 48; Eng., A
Sorrow Beyond Dreams, tr. Ralph Manheim, London, 1976, p. 31.
31 Ernst Cassirer, Sprache und Mythos, Studien der Bibliothek
Warburg, Leipzig and Berlin, 1925, p. 5; Eng., Language and Myth,
tr. Susanne E. Langer, New York, 1946, pp. 6–7.
BETWEEN HISTORY AND NATURAL HISTORY
1 Heinrich Böll, Hierzulande—Aufsätze zur Zeit, Munich, 1963, p. 128.
2 Günter Eich, 1907–72, poet and playwright; Paul Celan (pseudonym
of Paul Antschel), 1920–70, poet; Wolfgang Borchert, 1921–47, poet,
actor, writer of plays and short stories; Hans Erich Nossack, 1901–
77, novelist, wrote on the air raids of the Second World War in Der
Untergang, much quoted in the present work; Ernst Kreuder, 1903–
72, journalist and novelist; Ilse Aichinger, b. 1921, novelist, writer of
plays and short stories; Wolfdietrich Schnurre, 1920–89, novelist and
literary critic; Hans Werner Richter, 1908–93, novelist; Walter
Kolbenhoff (pseudonym of Walter Hoffmann), 1908–93, novelist;

Rolf Schroers, 1919–81, writer; Elisabeth Langgässer, 1899–1950,
poet, novelist, and essayist; Karl Krolow, 1915–99, poet; Siegfried
Lenz, b. 1926, novelist; Arno Schmidt, 1914–79, novelist, essayist,
and critic; Alfred Andersch, 1914–80, novelist and essayist; Walter
Jens, b. 1923, novelist and essayist; Marie Luise von Kaschnitz,
1901–74, novelist and poet.
3 Heinrich Böll, Frankfurter Vorlesungen, Munich, 1968, p. 121.
4 Hans Erich Nossack, “Er wurde zuletzt ganz durchsichtig—
Erinnerungen an Hermann Kasack,” in Pseudoautobiographische
Glossen, Frankfurt, 1971, p. 50. The text was first published in
Hamburg in 1966 in the Jahrbuch der Freien Akademie der Künste.
5 In the essay cited above, Nossack speaks of its being an international
success. See ibid., p. 50.
6 Hermann Kasack, Die Stadt hinter dem Strom, Frankfurt, 1978, p. 18.
7 Ibid., p. 10.
8 A term coined by Nossack, in “Er wurde zuletzt …,” p. 152.
9 Kasack, Die Stadt, p. 152.
10 Ibid.
11 Ibid., p. 154.
12 Ibid., p. 142.
13 Ibid., p. 314.
14 Ibid., p. 315. Arno Schmidt’s prose work of 1949, Leviathan oder
die beste der Welten, rests upon comparable juggling with
contemporary reality. In this work, the theory of the successive self-
realization of a negative cosmic principle is presented with physical
and philosophical sophistry.
15 Cf. Nossack, “Er wurde zuletzt …,” p. 47: “Real literature was a
secret language at the time.”
16 Die Stadt, p. 348.
17 Hans Erich Nossack, “Der Untergang,” in Interview mit dem Tode,
Frankfurt, 1972, pp. 209, 225.
18 Ibid., p. 233.
19 Ibid., p. 230.
20 Ibid., p. 229.
21 Ibid., p. 210.
22 Ibid., p. 209.

23 This quotation is from the autobiographical essay Dies lebenlose
Leben (“This Lifeless Life”), in which Nossack describes his time
under the Fascist regime. It refers to a former fellow student who
took his own life in 1933 because he wanted to be among the victims.
24 See in particular Canetti’s Crowds and Power, Weiss’s Abschied von
den Eltern (“Farewell to My Parents”), and Hildesheimer’s Tynset.
25 Nossack, op. cit., p. 193 (the “classical” figure embodying this
attitude is probably Pastor Helander, who dies with his boots on in
Alfred Andersch’s novel Sansibar oder der letzte Grund (“Zanzibar:
Or, the Last Reason”), dubious as that book is in many respects);
Pseudoautobiographische Glossen, p. 21.
26 Der Untergang, p. 254.
27 Ibid.
28 Pseudoautobiographische Glossen, p. 21.
29 Hans Erich Nossack, “Bericht eines fremden Wesens über die
Menschen,” in Interview mit dem Tode, p. 8.
30 Der Untergang, p. 204.
31 Ibid., pp. 205, 208.
32 Ibid., p. 211f.
33 Ibid., p. 226f.
34 Victor Gollancz, In Darkest Germany, London, 1947. The book is a
compilation of newspaper articles, letters, and observations by
Gollancz himself, and in its very lack of literary pretention it conveys
a precise impression of the situation of the German population
directly after the war. It includes a chapter entitled “This Misery of
Boots,” which is devoted to the footwear of the postwar Germans, as
well as photographs documenting about twenty pairs of these boots
and shoes. The extremely battered items of footwear shown do
indeed suggest a phenomenon of natural history, reminding the
viewer of all the connotations of the term “stout shoes” (festes
Schuhwerk) for the Germans even later. It is almost a model of the
documentary linking of past and present as practiced by Kluge.
Gollancz was also one of the few individuals to speak up for the
German people immediately after the war, just as he had previously
been one of the few to point, at the earliest possible moment, to the
murder of the Jews in the concentration camps and suggest practical
countermeasures, without getting much response. (See Let My People

Go—Some Practical Proposals for Dealing with Hitler’s Massacre of
the Jews and an Appeal to the British Public, London, 1943. An
impressive historical study of this subject has been published: T.
Bower, A Blind Eye to Murder, London, 1981.)
35 Cf. Frankfurter Vorlesungen, p. 82.
36 Der Untergang, p. 216.
37 Frankfurter Vorlesungen, p. 83.
38 Der Untergang, p. 243.
39 Alexander Kluge, Neue Geschichten. Hefte 1–18, Unheimlichkeit
der Zeit, Frankfurt, 1977, p. 102.
40 Theodor W. Adorno, Prismen, Munich, 1963, p. 267; Eng., Prisms,
tr. S. and S. Weber, London, 1967, p. 260.
41 Kasack, Die Stadt, p. 82.
42 Ibid., p. 22.
43 Der Untergang, p. 217.
44 Elias Canetti, Die gespaltene Zukunft, Munich, 1972, p. 58.
45 Der Untergang, p. 219.
46 Ibid., p. 248f.
47 Ibid., pp. 248–49.
48 Theodor Adorno, Kierkegaard—Konstruktion des Ästhetischen,
Frankfurt, 1966, p. 253.
49 Der Untergang, p. 245.
50 The Odyssey, XXII, 471–73, Eng. tr. Robert Fagles, New York,
1996.
51 Der Untergang, p. 245.
52 Neue Geschichten, p. 9.
53 Ibid., p. 83f. The conclusions that the reader can draw from these
“statements” converge with the ideas published by Solly Zuckerman
in his autobiography, From Apes to Warlords (London: 1978). Lord
Zuckerman was scientific adviser on air warfare strategy to the
British government during the war, and with great personal
commitment tried to dissuade High Command of the bomber forces
under Air Marshal Arthur “Bomber” Harris from continuing with the
strategy of wholesale destruction that went by the name Operation
Overlord. He backed, instead, a selective strategy aimed against the
enemy’s system of communications, which he was convinced would
have brought the war to an end sooner and with far fewer victims, an

opinion that, incidentally, coincides with the conjectures on this
subject put forward by Speer in his memoirs. Lord Zuckerman
writes: “As we now know, bombing at about a hundred times the
intensity of anything ever suffered by European cities during the
Second World War at no moment broke the spirit of the people of
Vietnam against whom the American forces were fighting between
1964 and 1973. In those nine years, seven million tons of bombs
were dropped on South Vietnam (which received about half of the
total), North Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia—three times the total
tonnage of British, American and German bombs dropped on
European soil in the Second World War” (Apes to Warlords, p. 148).
These observations bear out his thesis of the objective pointlessness
of “area bombing.” As Lord Zuckerman says in his book, once he
had seen for himself after the war the effects of the air raids on
German cities, he agreed to write an account entitled “The Natural
History of Destruction” for the journal Horizon, edited by Cyril
Connolly, but unfortunately this project was never carried out.
54 Neue Geschichten, p. 35.
55 Ibid., p. 37.
56 Ibid., p. 39.
57 Ibid., p. 49.
58 This and the following quotation: ibid., p. 53.
59 Cf. Wuppertal 1945, by Robert Wolfgang Schnel, in Vaterland,
Muttersprache—Deutsche Schriftsteller und ihr Staat seit 1945, ed.
K. Wagenbach, W. Stephan, and M. Krüger (Berlin: 1979), p. 29f.,
which quotes this comment by Brecht in a context that is relevant
here. Stanislaw Lem, Imaginäre Grösse (Frankfurt: 1981), p. 74;
Eng., Imaginary Magnitude, tr. Marc E. Heine (London: 1985).
60 Neue Geschichten, p. 59.
61 Ibid., pp. 63, 69.
62 Ibid., p. 79.
63 Interview mit dem Tode, p. 121.
64 Andrew Bowie, Problems of Historical Understanding in the
Modern Novel, typewritten diss., Norwich, Eng., 1979, an
outstanding work that studies Kluge in its closing chapter.
65 Neue Geschichten, pp. 38, 54.
66 Problems of Historical Understanding, p. 295f.

67 Neue Geschichten, p. 106f.
CONSTRUCTS OF MOURNING
1 Alexander and Margarete Mitscherlich, Die Unfähigkeit zu trauern,
Munich, 1967, p. 9.
2 An almost entirely dismantled and deindustrialized Germany such as
the Morgenthau Plan envisaged would hardly have been in any state
to rehabilitate itself, and Robert Burton’s description of melancholy
states where the land lies uncultivated, desolate, full of swamps,
marshes, wildernesses, and the like, where cities fall into decay,
towns are depressed and poor, villages are deserted, and the
population is dirty, ugly, and uncivilized, would probably have been
very relevant to Germany.
3 This and the following three quotations are from Die Unfähigkeit zu
trauern, p. 35.
4 Hans Erich Nossack, Pseudoautobiographische Glossen (Frankfurt:
1971).
5 Hans Erich Nossack, Der Untergang. In Interview mit dem Tode,
Frankfurt, 1972, p. 249.
6 Act I, scene 2.
7 Die Unfähigkeit zu trauern, p. 47.
8 Ibid., p. 48.
9 Ibid., p. 56.
10 Ibid., p. 57.
11 Ibid., p. 28.
12 Heinrich Böll, Frankfurter Vorlesungen, Munich, 1968, p. 8.
13 Ibid., p. 9.
14 Die Unföhigkeit zu trauern, pp. 19, 18.
15 Günter Grass, Tagebuch einer Schnecke, Reinbek, 1974, p. 80; Eng.,
From the Diary of a Snail, tr. Ralph Manheim, London, 1974, p. 112.
16 Ibid., p. 27; Eng., p. 34. Lichtenstein’s book did not appear until
1973. In the foreword to his monograph, Erwin Lichtenstein
comments that Grass, in his own latest book, refers “to accounts and
news reports as well as much factual material that he had from me.”
And he continues: “The reader of Diary of a Snail will find my

information expressed in the chapters of Günter Grass’s book tracing
the final period of the history of the Jews in Danzig” (E.
Lichtenstein, Die Juden der freien Stadt Danzig under der Herrschaft
des Nationalsozialismus, Tübingen, 1973, p. viii). We have here a
clear indication that there had been no research by local historians
into the fate of the Jewish communities on the German side, and that
little had changed in the state of affairs deplored by Jean Paul as
“Christian neglect of the study of the Jews.”
17 Günter Grass, Katz und Maus, Reinbek, 1963, p. 35; Eng., Cat and
Mouse, tr. Ralph Manheim, London.
18 See “Rede auf Hermann Broch,” in Elias Canetti, Aufzeichnungen
1942–1948, Munich, 1969, p. 159f; Tagebuch einer Schnecke, p. 153;
Eng., p. 223.
19 Walter Benjamin, Ursprung des deutschen Trauerspiels, Frankfurt,
1963, p. 166; Eng., The Origin of German Tragic Drama, tr. John
Osborne, London, 1977, p. 152.
20 Tagebuch einer Schnecke, p. 155; Eng., p. 223.
21 Ibid., p. 81.
22 Heinrich Böll, Der Zug war pünktlich, Munich, 1972, p. 34; Eng.,
The Train Was on Time, tr. Leila Vennewitz, London, 1970, p. 28.
23 Tagebuch einer Schnecke, p. 155; Eng., p. 96.
24 Ibid., p. 70; Eng., p. 97.
25 Ibid., p. 37; Eng., p. 49.
26 In Tagebuch einer Schnecke (From the Diary of a Snail), Grass tells
his children: “It’s true: you’re innocent. I, too, born almost late
enough, am held to be free from guilt. Only if I wanted to forget, if
you were unwilling to learn how it slowly happened, only then might
words of one syllable catch up with us: words like guilt and shame;
they, too, resolute snails, impossible to stop” (p. 13; Eng., p. 13). The
most notable feature of this passage is the less than convincing logic
of the last couple of lines.
27 Tagebuch einer Schnecke, p. 130; Eng., p. 188.
28 Ibid., p. 189; Eng., p. 274.
29 Ibid., p. 203; Eng., p. 294.
30 Wolfgang Hildesheimer, Tynset, Frankfurt, 1965, p. 30.
31 Ibid., p. 39.
32 Ibid., p. 46.

33 Ibid., p. 155f.
34 Act I, scene 1.
35 Franz Kafka, Briefe an Felice, Frankfurt, 1967, p. 283.
36 Quoted from F. P. Wilson, Seventeenth-Century Prose, Cambridge,
Eng., 1960, p. 45.
37 Ibid., p. 27.
38 Sir Thomas Browne, Hydriothapia. Urne-Burial; or, A Brief
Discourse of the Sepulchrall Urnes lately found in Norfolk, London,
1658. In The Prose of Sir Thomas Browne, New York and London,
1968, p. 281.
39 Tynset, p. 185.
40 See Ursprung des deutschen Trauerspiels, p. 164; Eng., p. 150.
41 Hamlet, Act IV, scene 5.
42 Tynset, p. 87.
43 Theodor W. Adorno, Ästhetische Theorie, Frankfurt, 1970, p. 66.;
Eng., Aesthetic Theory, tr. Robert Hullot-Kentor, London, 1997, p.
39f.
44 Tynset, p. 186.
45 Ibid., p. 79; Hamlet, Act I, scene 5.
46 Tynset, p. 265.
47 Ibid., p. 14.
48 Wolfgang Hildesheimer, “Brief an Max über den Stand der Dinge
und Anderes,” in Manuskripte. Zeitschrift für Literatur 76 (1982), p.
44.
49 Lucifers Königreich und Seelengejäidt: Oder Narrenhatz. In acht
Theil Abgetheilet … Durch Aegidium Albertinum, Fürstl.: Durchl: in
Bayrn Secretarium, zusammen getragen, Munich, 1617, p. 411
(quoted in Ursprung des deutschen Trauerspiels, p. 156).
OceanofPDF.com

SOURCES OF THE TEXT
OceanofPDF.com

PROSE
“A Little Excursion to Ajaccio” (Kleine Exkursion nach Agaccio).
Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, 10 August 1996.
“Campo Santo” (Campo Santo). Akzente 1 (2003), pp. 3–14.
“The Alps in the Sea” (Die Alpen im Meer). Literaturen 1 (2001), pp. 30–33.
“La cour de l’ancienne école” (La cour de l’ancienne école). In: Quint
Buchholz, ed., BuchBilderBuch, stories about pictures, Zürich, 1997, pp. 13–
15.
ESSAYS
“Strangeness, Integration, and Crisis. On Peter Handke’s Play Kaspar”
(Fremdheit, Integration und Krise. Über Peter Handkes Stück Kaspar).
Literatur und Kritik 10 (1975), pp. 152–58.
“Between History and Natural History: On the Literary Description of Total
Destruction” (Zwischen Geschichte und Naturgeschichte. Über die
literarische Beschreibung totaler Zerstörung). Orbis litterarum 37 (1982),
pp. 345–66.

“Constructs of Mourning: Günter Grass and Wolfgang Hildesheimer”
(Konstruktionen der Trauer. Günter Grass und Wolfgang Hildesheimer).
Deutschunterricht 35 (1983), 5, pp. 32–46.
“Des Häschens Kind, der kleine Has (“The Little Hare, Child of the Hare”):
On the Poet Ernst Herbeck’s Totem Animal” (Des Häschens Kind, der kleine
Has. Über das Totemtier des Lyrikers Ernst Herbeck). Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung, 8 December 1992.
“To the Brothel by Way of Switzerland: On Kafka’s Travel Diaries” (Via
Schweiz ins Bordell. Zu den Reisetagebüchern Kafkas). DieWeltwoche, 5
October 1995, p. 66.
“Dream Textures: A Brief Note on Nabokov” (Traumtexturen. Kleine
Anmerkung zu Nabokov). Die Zeitschrift der Kultur 6 (1996), pp. 22–25.
“Kafka Goes to the Movies” (Kafka im Kino). Frankfurter Rundschau, 18
January 1997.
“Scomber scombrus, or the Common Mackerel: On Pictures by Jan Peter
Tripp” (Scomber scombrus oder die gemeine Makrele. Zu Bildern von Jan
Peter Tripp). Neue Zürcher Zeitung, 23/24 (September 2000).
“The Mystery of the Red-Brown Skin: An Approach to Bruce Chatwin”
(Das Geheimnis des rotbraunen Fells. Annäherung an Bruce Chatwin).
Literaturen 11 (2000), pp. 72–75.
“Moments musicaux” (Moments musicaux). Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung,
7 July 2001.
“An Attempt at Restitution” (Ein Versuch der Restitution). Stuttgarter
Zeitung, 18 November 2001.

“Acceptance Speech to the Collegium of the German Academy”
(Antrittsrede vor dem Kollegium der Deutschen Akademie). In: “Wie sie sich
selber sehen” (How They See Themselves). Acceptance speeches to the
Collegium of the German Academy by members. With an essay by Hans-
Martin Gauger. Ed. Michael Assmann, Göttingen, 1999, pp. 445–46.
OceanofPDF.com

ABOUT THE PICTURES
OceanofPDF.com

this page: Quint Buchholz, Die Befragung der Aussicht (III) (“Questioning
the View”), 1989. Pen and colored ink drawing on paper.
this page: Jan Peter Tripp, Das ungeschriebene Gebot (“The Unwritten
Commandment”), 1996. Acrylic on paper and wood, diameter 90 cm.
this page: Jan Peter Tripp, Endspiel (“Endgame”), 1999. Acrylic on canvas
and wood, 50 × 50 cm.
OceanofPDF.com

W. G. Sebald was born in Wertach im Allgäu, Germany, in 1944. He studied
German language and literature in Freiburg, Switzerland, and in
Manchester. He taught at the University of East Anglia in Norwich,
England, for thirty years, becoming professor of European literature in
1987, and from 1989 to 1994 was the first director of the British Centre for
Literary Translation. His previous books—After Nature, The Rings of
Saturn, The Emigrants, Vertigo, and Austerlitz—have won a number of
international awards, including the National Book Critics Circle Award, the
L.A. Times Book Award, the Berlin Literature Prize, and the Literatur Nord
Prize. He died in December 2001.
OceanofPDF.com

ABOUT THE TRANSLATOR
Anthea Bell was born in Suffolk and educated at Somerville College,
Oxford. She has worked as a translator for many years, primarily from
German and French, and her translations include works of nonfiction
(biography, politics, social history, musicology, and art history), literary and
popular fiction, and classic German works for young people. Anthea Bell
has also served on the committee of the Translators Association and the jury
panel of the Schlegel-Tieck German translation prize in the U.K., and has
received a number of translation prizes and awards, including, in 2002, the
Independent Foreign Fiction Prize (U.K.) and the Helen and Kurt Wolff
Prize (U.S.) for W. G. Sebald’s Austerlitz. She lives in Cambridge, England.
OceanofPDF.com

OceanofPDF.com