A verbal proposition is called analytical, as breaking up the subject into its component notions. § 237. A real proposition is called synthetical, as attaching some new notion to the subject. § 238. Among the scholastic logicians verbal propositions were known as 'Essential,' because what was stated in the definition was considered to be of the essence of the subject, while real propositions were known as 'Accidental.' _Universal AND PARTICULAR Propositions_. § 239. A Universal proposition is one in which it is evident from the form that the predicate applies to the subject in its whole extent. § 240. When the predicate does not apply to the subject in its whole extent, or when it is not clear that it does so, the proposition is called Particular. § 241. To say that a predicate applies to a subject in its whole extent, is to say that it is asserted or denied of all the things of which the subject is a name. § 242. 'All men are mortal' is a universal proposition. § 243. 'Some men are black' is a particular proposition. So also is 'Men are fallible;' for here it is not clear from the form whether 'all' or only 'some' is meant. § 244. The latter kind of proposition is known as Indefinite, and must be distinguished from the particular proposition strictly so called, in which the predicate applies to part only of the subject. § 245. The division into universal and particular is founded on the Quantity of propositions. § 246. The quantity of a proposition is determined by the quantity in extension of its subject. § 247. Very often the matter of an indefinite proposition is such as clearly to indicate to us its quantity. When, for instance, we say 'Metals are elements,' we are understood to be referring to all metals; and the same thing holds true of scientific statements in general. Formal logic, however, cannot take account of the matter of propositions; and is therefore obliged to set down all indefinite propositions as particular, since it is not evident from the form that they are universal. § 248. Particular propositions, therefore, are sub-divided into such as are Indefinite and such as are Particular, in the strict sense of the term. § 249. We must now examine the sub-division of universal propositions into Singular and General. § 250. A Singular proposition is one which has a singular term for its subject, e.g. 'Virtue is beautiful.' § 251. A General proposition is one which has for its subject a common term taken in its whole extent. § 252. Now when we say 'John is a man' or 'This table is oblong,' the proposition is quite as universal, in the sense of the predicate applying to the whole of the subject, as when we say 'All men are mortal.' For since a singular term applies only to one thing, we cannot avoid using it in its whole extent, if we use it at all. § 253. The most usual signs of generality in a proposition are the words 'all,' 'every,' 'each,' in affirmative, and the words 'no,' 'none,' 'not one,' &c. in negative propositions. § 254. The terminology of the division of propositions according to quantity is unsatisfactory. Not only has the indefinite proposition to be set down as particular, even when the sense manifestly declares it to be universal; but the proposition which is expressed in a particular form has also to be construed as indefinite, _so_ that an unnatural meaning is imparted to the word 'some,' as used in logic.