Aristotle's definitions of 'wealth' and 'monarchy' are as applicable now as in his own day, and no subsequent discoveries of the properties of figures will render Euclid's definitions unavailable. § 374. We may distinguish therefore between two kinds of definition, namely, (1) Final. (2) Provisional. § 375. A distinction is also observed between Real and Nominal Definitions. Both of these explain the meaning of a term: but a real definition further assumes the actual existence of the thing defined. Thus the explanation of the term 'Centaur' would be a nominal, that of 'horse' a real definition. It is useless to assert, as is often done, that a nominal definition explains the meaning of a term and a real definition the nature of a thing; for, as we have seen already, the meaning of a term is whatever we know of the nature of a thing. § 376. It now remains to lay down certain rules for correct definition. § 377. The first rule that is commonly given is that a definition should state the essential attributes of the thing defined. But this amounts merely to saying that a definition should be a definition; since it is only by the aid of definition that we can distinguish between essential and non-essential among the common attributes exhibited by a class of things. The rule however may be retained as a material test of the soundness of a definition, in the sense that he who seeks to define anything should fix upon its most important attributes. To define man as a mammiferous animal having two hands, or as a featherless biped, we feel to be absurd and incongruous, since there is no reference to the most salient characteristic of man, namely, his rationality. Nevertheless we cannot quarrel with these definitions on formal, but only on material grounds. Again, if anyone chose to define logic as the art of thinking, all we could say is that we differ from him in opinion, as we think logic is more properly to be regarded as the science of the laws of thought. But here also it is on material grounds that we dissent from the definition. § 378. Confining ourselves therefore to the sphere with which we are properly concerned, we lay down the following _Rules for Definition._ (1) A definition must be co-extensive with the term defined. (2) A definition must not state attributes which imply one another. (3) A definition must not contain the name defined, either directly or by implication. (4) A definition must be clearer than the term defined. (5) A definition must not be negative, if it can be affirmative. Briefly, a definition must be adequate (1), terse (2), clear (4); and must not be tautologous (3), or, if it can be avoided, negative (5). § 379. It is worth while to notice a slight ambiguity in the term 'definition' itself. Sometimes it is applied to the whole proposition which expounds the meaning of the term; at other times it is confined to the predicate of this proposition. Thus in stating the first four rules we have used the term in the latter sense, and in stating the fifth in the former. § 380. We will now illustrate the force of the above rules by giving examples of their violation. A triangle is a figure with three equal sides. A square is a four-sided figure having all its sides equal.