§ 860. The first on the list is the Fallacy of Accident ([Greek: tò
sumbebekós]). This fallacy consists in confounding an essential with
an accidental difference, which is not allowable, since many things
are the same in essence, while they differ in accidents. Here is the
sort of example that Aristotle gives--

'Is Plato different from Socrates ?' 'Yes.' 'Is Socrates a man ?'
  'Yes.' 'Then Plato is different from man.'

To this we answer--No: the difference of accidents between Plato and
Socrates does not go so deep as to affect the underlying essence. To
put the thing more plainly, the fallacy lies in assuming that whatever
is different from a given subject must be different from it in all
respects, so that it is impossible for them to have a common
predicate. Here Socrates and Plato, though different from one another,
are not so different but that they have the common predicate 'man.'
The attempt to prove that they have not involves an illicit process of
the major.

§ 861. The next fallacy suffers from the want of a convenient name. It
is called by Aristotle [Greek: tò áplos tóde ê pê légestai kaì mè
kupíos] or, more briefly, [Greek: tò áplôs ê mé], or [Greek: tò pê kaí
áplôs], and by the Latin writers 'Fallacia a dicto secundum quid ad
dictum simpliciter.' It consists in taking what is said in a
particular respect as though it held true without any restriction,
e.g., that because the nonexistent ([Greek: tò mè ôn]) is a matter of
opinion, that therefore the non-existent is, or again that because the
existent ([Greek: tò ôn]) is not a man, that therefore the existent is
not. Or again, if an Indian, who as a whole is black, has white teeth,
we should be committing this species of fallacy in declaring him to be
both white and not-white. For he is only white in a certain respect
([Greek: pê]), but not absolutely ([Greek: àplôs]). More
difficulty, says Aristotle, may arise when opposite qualities exist in
a thing in about an equal degree. When, for instance, a thing is half
white and half black, are we to say that it is white or black? This
question the philosopher propounds, but does not answer. The force of
it lies in the implied attack on the Law of Contradiction. It would
seem in such a case that a thing may be both white and not-white at
the same time. The fact is--so subtle are the ambiguities of
language--that even such a question as 'Is a thing white or
not-white?' straightforward, as it seems, is not really a fair one. We
are entitled sometimes to take the bull by the horns, and answer with
the adventurous interlocutor in one of Plato's dialogues--'Both and
neither.' It may be both in a certain respect, and yet neither
absolutely.

§ 862. The same sort of difficulties attach to the Law of Excluded
Middle, and may be met in the same way.  It might, for instance, be
urged that it could not be said with truth of the statue seen by
Nebuchadnezzar in his dream either that it was made of gold or that it
was not made of gold: but the apparent plausibility of the objection
would be due merely to the ambiguity of language.  It is not true, on
the one hand, that it was made of gold (in the sense of being composed
entirely of that metal); and it is not true, on the other, that it was
not made of gold (in the sense of no gold at all entering into its
composition). But let the ambiguous proposition be split up into its
two meanings, and the stringency of the Law of Excluded Middle will at
once appear--

(1) It must either have been composed entirely of gold or not.

(2) Either gold must have entered into its composition or not.