(26) A dove can fly a mile in a minute.
       A swallow can fly faster than a dove.
       .'. A swallow can fly more than a mile in a minute.

(27) 'I must soap myself, because it's Sunday.'
       'Then do you only soap yourself on Sunday.'

(28) If the charge is false, the author of it is either ignorant or
  malicious. But the charge is true.  Therefore he is neither.

(29) All the angles of a triangle are equal to two right angles.
       The angle at the vertex is an angle of a triangle.
       .'. It is equal to two right angles.

(30) Si gravis sit dolor, brevis est; si longus, levis.  Ergo
  fortiter ferendus.

(31) You are not what I am.
       I am a man.
       .'. You are not a man.

(32) The extension of the franchise is necessary, for it is
  imperative that the right of voting should be granted to classes who
  have hitherto not possessed this privilege.

(33) If Hannibal is really victorious, he does not need supplies;
  while, if he is deluding us, we ought certainly not to encourage him
  by sending them.  Livy, xxiii. 13. § 5.

(34) Laws must punish, and punishment hurts.
  All laws therefore are hurtful.

(35) The sun is an insensible thing.
       The Persians worship the sun.
       .'. The Persians worship an insensible thing.

(36) Some ores are not metals; for they are not fluids,
  and some metals are not fluids.

(37) All the Grecian soldiers put the Persians to flight.
       .'. Every Grecian soldier could rout the Persians.

(38) The resurrection of Jesus Christ is either an isolated fact or
  else admits of parallel. But if it be an isolated fact, it cannot be
  rendered probable to one who denies the authority of Christianity;
  and, if it admit of parallel, it no longer proves what is
  required. Therefore it is either incapable of being substantiated or
  else makes nothing for the truth of Christianity.

(39) The resurrection of Christ in the flesh and his ascension into
  heaven were events either intrinsically incredible in their nature
  or not. If the former, the prevalent belief in them can only be
  accounted for by miracles; if the latter, they ought to be believed
  even without miracles. St.  Aug. De Civ. Dei, xxii. 8.

(40) Only contented people are wise. Therefore the tramp contented
  in his rags is necessarily a wise man.

(41) Four-legged things are brutes.
       Tables are four-legged things.
       .'. Tables are brutes.

(42) The apparent volcanoes in the moon are not volcanoes; for
  eruptions are produced by gases only, and there are no gases in the
  moon.

(43) To read the Scriptures is our duty. Therefore the Captain was
  wrong in punishing the helmsman for reading the Bible at the time
  when the ship struck.

(44) The divine law orders that kings should be honoured.
       Louis Quatorze is a king.
       .'. The divine law orders that Louis Quatorze should be honoured.

(45) Those who desire the same object are unanimous.
       Caesar and Pompey both desire the same object, namely, supreme
       power.
       .'. They are unanimous.

(46) Either the ministers left at home will be ciphers or they will
  not be ciphers. If they are ciphers, cabinet government, which is
  equivalent to constitutional government, will receive a rude blow.
  If they are not ciphers, the cabinet will be considering matters of
  the utmost importance in the absence, and the gratuitous absence, of
  two of its most important members. 'The Standard,' Wed. June 5,
  1878.

(47) One patent stove saves half the ordinary amount of
  fuel. Therefore two would save it all.