I'll tell the authorities you had it in advance.' "Well, gentlemen, what do you think? I did write that report, too!" "Well, what then? How did it end?" "As soon as I had written the report, gentlemen, this is how it ended. The next day, in the early morning, an envelope with a government seal arrived. I looked at it and what had I got? That is, instructions to hand over my work, to deliver the accounts--and to go about my business!" "How so?" "That's just what I cried at the top of my voice, 'How so?' Gentlemen, there was a ringing in my ears. I thought there was no special reason for it--but no, the Inspector had arrived in the town. My heart sank. 'It's not for nothing,' I thought. And just as I was I rushed off to Fedosey Nikolaitch. "'How is this?' I said. "'What do you mean?' he said. "'Why, I am dismissed.' "'Dismissed? how?' "'Why, look at this!' "'Well, what of it?' "'Why, but I didn't ask for it!' "'Yes, you did--you sent in your papers on the first of--April.' (I had never taken that letter back!) "'Fedosey Nikolaitch! I can't believe my ears, I can't believe my eyes! Is this you?' "'It is me, why?' "'My God!' "'I am sorry, sir. I am very sorry that you made up your mind to retire from the service so early. A young man ought to be in the service, and you've begun to be a little light-headed of late. And as for your character, set your mind at rest: I'll see to that! Your behaviour has always been so exemplary!' "'But that was a little joke, Fedosey Nikolaitch! I didn't mean it, I just gave you the letter for your fatherly ... that's all.' "'That's all? A queer joke, sir! Does one jest with documents like that? Why, you are sometimes sent to Siberia for such jokes. I am busy. We have the Inspector here--the duties of the service before everything; you can kick up your heels, but we have to sit here at work. But I'll get you a character---- Oh, another thing: I've just bought a house from Matveyev. We are moving in in a day or two. So I expect I shall not have the pleasure of seeing you at our new residence. _Bon voyage!_' "I ran home. "'We are lost, granny!' "She wailed, poor dear, and then I saw the page from Fedosey Nikolaitch's running up with a note and a bird-cage, and in the cage there was a starling. In the fullness of my heart I had given her the starling. And in the note there were the words: 'April 1st,' and nothing more. What do you think of that, gentlemen?" "What happened then? What happened then?" "What then! I met Fedosey Nikolaitch once, I meant to tell him to his face he was a scoundrel." "Well?" "But somehow I couldn't bring myself to it, gentlemen." A LITTLE HERO A STORY At that time I was nearly eleven, I had been sent in July to spend the holiday in a village near Moscow with a relation of mine called T., whose house was full of guests, fifty, or perhaps more.... I don't remember, I didn't count. The house was full of noise and gaiety.