C H A P. XIV WHEN all was set to rights, I came down stairs again into the _basse cour_ with my _valet de place_, in order to sally out towards the tomb of the two lovers, &c.—and was a second time stopp'd at the gate——not by the ass—but by the person who struck him; and who, by that time, had taken possession (as is not uncommon after a defeat) of the very spot of ground where the ass stood. It was a commissary sent to me from the post-office, with a rescript in his hand for the payment of some six livres odd sous. Upon what account? said I.——'Tis upon the part of the king, replied the commissary, heaving up both his shoulders—— ——My good friend, quoth I——as sure as I am I—and you are you—— ——And who are you? said he.—— ——Don't puzzle me; said I. C H A P. XV ——But it is an indubitable verity, continued I, addressing myself to the commissary, changing only the form of my asseveration——that I owe the king of _France_ nothing but my good will; for he is a very honest man, and I wish him all health and pastime in the world—— _Pardonnez moi_—replied the commissary, you are indebted to him six livres four sous, for the next post from hence to St. _Fons_, in your route to _Avignon_—which being a post royal, you pay double for the horses and postillion—otherwise 'twould have amounted to no more than three livres two sous—— ——But I don't go by land; said I. ——You may if you please; replied the commissary—— Your most obedient servant——said I, making him a low bow—— The commissary, with all the sincerity of grave good breeding—made me one, as low again.——I never was more disconcerted with a bow in my life. ——The devil take the serious character of these people! quoth I—(aside) they understand no more of Irony than this—— The comparison was standing close by with his panniers—but something seal'd up my lips—I could not pronounce the name— Sir, said I, collecting myself—it is not my intention to take post—— —But you may—said he, persisting in his first reply—you may take post if you chuse—— —And I may take salt to my pickled herring, said I, if I chuse— —But I do not chuse— —But you must pay for it, whether you do or no. Aye! for the salt; said I (I know)—— —And for the post too; added he. Defend me! cried I—— I travel by water—I am going down the _Rhône_ this very afternoon—my baggage is in the boat—and I have actually paid nine livres for my passage—— _C'est tout egal_—'tis all one; said he. _Bon Dieu!_ what, pay for the way I go! and for the way I do _not_ go! ——_C'est tout egal;_ replied the commissary—— ——The devil it is! said I—but I will go to ten thousand Bastiles first—— _O England! England!_ thou land of liberty, and climate of good sense, thou tenderest of mothers—and gentlest of nurses, cried I, kneeling upon one knee, as I was beginning my apostrophè. When the director of Madam _Le Blanc_'s conscience coming in at that instant, and seeing a person in black, with a face as pale as ashes, at his devotions—looking still paler by the contrast and distress of his drapery—ask'd, if I stood in want of the aids of the church—— I go by WATER—said I—and here's another will be for making me pay for going by OIL.