Well?" Seeing that he was not prevented from holding her arm, Volodya glanced at Nyuta's laughing face, and clumsily, awkwardly, put both arms round her waist, his hands meeting behind her back. He held her round the waist with both arms, while, putting her hands up to her head, showing the dimples in her elbows, she set her hair straight under the kerchief and said in a calm voice: "You must be tactful, polite, charming, and you can only become that under feminine influence. But what a wicked, angry face you have! You must talk, laugh.... Yes, Volodya, don't be surly; you are young and will have plenty of time for philosophising. Come, let go of me; I am going. Let go." Without effort she released her waist, and, humming something, walked out of the arbour. Volodya was left alone. He smoothed his hair, smiled, and walked three times to and fro across the arbour, then he sat down on the bench and smiled again. He felt insufferably ashamed, so much so that he wondered that human shame could reach such a pitch of acuteness and intensity. Shame made him smile, gesticulate, and whisper some disconnected words. He was ashamed that he had been treated like a small boy, ashamed of his shyness, and, most of all, that he had had the audacity to put his arms round the waist of a respectable married woman, though, as it seemed to him, he had neither through age nor by external quality, nor by social position any right to do so. He jumped up, went out of the arbour, and, without looking round, walked into the recesses of the garden furthest from the house. "Ah! only to get away from here as soon as possible," he thought, clutching his head. "My God! as soon as possible." The train by which Volodya was to go back with his _maman_ was at eight-forty. There were three hours before the train started, but he would with pleasure have gone to the station at once without waiting for his _maman_. At eight o'clock he went to the house. His whole figure was expressive of determination: what would be, would be! He made up his mind to go in boldly, to look them straight in the face, to speak in a loud voice, regardless of everything. He crossed the terrace, the big hall and the drawing-room, and there stopped to take breath. He could hear them in the dining-room, drinking tea. Madame Shumihin, _maman_, and Nyuta were talking and laughing about something. Volodya listened. "I assure you!" said Nyuta. "I could not believe my eyes! When he began declaring his passion and--just imagine!--put his arms round my waist, I should not have recognised him. And you know he has a way with him! When he told me he was in love with me, there was something brutal in his face, like a Circassian." "Really!" gasped _maman_, going off into a peal of laughter. "Really! How he does remind me of his father!" Volodya ran back and dashed out into the open air. "How could they talk of it aloud!" he wondered in agony, clasping his hands and looking up to the sky in horror. "They talk aloud in cold blood ... and _maman_ laughed!... _Maman!_ My God, why didst Thou give me such a mother?