By now he was living not with Tanya, but with another woman, who was two
years older than he was, and who looked after him as though he were a
baby. He was in a calm and tranquil state of mind; he readily gave in to
her, and when Varvara Nikolaevna--that was the name of his
friend--decided to take him to the Crimea, he agreed, though he had a
presentiment that no good would come of the trip.

They reached Sevastopol in the evening and stopped at an hotel to rest
and go on the next day to Yalta. They were both exhausted by the
journey. Varvara Nikolaevna had some tea, went to bed and was soon
asleep. But Kovrin did not go to bed. An hour before starting for the
station, he had received a letter from Tanya, and had not brought
himself to open it, and now it was lying in his coat pocket, and the
thought of it excited him disagreeably. At the bottom of his heart he
genuinely considered now that his marriage to Tanya had been a mistake.
He was glad that their separation was final, and the thought of that
woman who in the end had turned into a living relic, still walking about
though everything seemed dead in her except her big, staring,
intelligent eyes--the thought of her roused in him nothing but pity and
disgust with himself. The handwriting on the envelope reminded him how
cruel and unjust he had been two years before, how he had worked off his
anger at his spiritual emptiness, his boredom, his loneliness, and his
dissatisfaction with life by revenging himself on people in no way to
blame. He remembered, also, how he had torn up his dissertation and all
the articles he had written during his illness, and how he had thrown
them out of window, and the bits of paper had fluttered in the wind and
caught on the trees and flowers. In every line of them he saw strange,
utterly groundless pretension, shallow defiance, arrogance, megalomania;
and they made him feel as though he were reading a description of his
vices. But when the last manuscript had been torn up and sent flying out
of window, he felt, for some reason, suddenly bitter and angry; he went
to his wife and said a great many unpleasant things to her. My God, how
he had tormented her! One day, wanting to cause her pain, he told her
that her father had played a very unattractive part in their romance,
that he had asked him to marry her. Yegor Semyonitch accidentally
overheard this, ran into the room, and, in his despair, could not utter
a word, could only stamp and make a strange, bellowing sound as though
he had lost the power of speech, and Tanya, looking at her father, had
uttered a heart-rending shriek and had fallen into a swoon. It was
hideous.

All this came back into his memory as he looked at the familiar writing.
Kovrin went out on to the balcony; it was still warm weather and there
was a smell of the sea. The wonderful bay reflected the moonshine and
the lights, and was of a colour for which it was difficult to find a
name. It was a soft and tender blending of dark blue and green; in
places the water was like blue vitriol, and in places it seemed as
though the moonlight were liquefied and filling the bay instead of
water. And what harmony of colours, what an atmosphere of peace, calm,
and sublimity!

In the lower storey under the balcony the windows were probably open,
for women's voices and laughter could be heard distinctly. Apparently
there was an evening party.