Then his courage forsook him, and he began to pet her affectionately,
stroking her long ears, kissing her muzzle and calling her tender names.

But a neighboring clock struck six. He could no longer hesitate.
He opened the door, calling: “Come!” The beast wagged her tail,
understanding that she was to be taken out.

They reached the beach, and he chose a place where the water seemed
deep. Then he knotted the rope round the leather collar and tied a heavy
stone to the other end. He seized Cocotte in his arms and kissed her
madly, as though he were taking leave of some human being. He held her
to his breast, rocked her and called her “my dear little Cocotte, my
sweet little Cocotte,” and she grunted with pleasure.

Ten times he tried to throw her into the water and each time he lost
courage.

But suddenly he made up his mind and threw her as far from him as he
could. At first she tried to swim, as she did when he gave her a bath,
but her head, dragged down by the stone, kept going under, and she
looked at her master with wild, human glances as she struggled like a
drowning person. Then the front part of her body sank, while her hind
legs waved wildly out of the water. Finally those also disappeared.

Then, for five minutes, bubbles rose to the surface as though the river
were boiling, and Francois, haggard, his heart beating, thought that
he saw Cocotte struggling in the mud, and, with the simplicity of a
peasant, he kept saying to himself: “What does the poor beast think of
me now?”

He almost lost his mind. He was ill for a month and every night he
dreamed of his dog. He could feel her licking his hands and hear her
barking. It was necessary to call in a physician. At last he recovered,
and toward the 2nd of June his employers took him to their estate at
Biesard, near Rouen.

There again he was near the Seine. He began to take baths. Each morning
he would go down with the groom and they would swim across the river.

One day, as they were disporting themselves in the water, Francois
suddenly cried to his companion: “Look what's coming! I'm going to give
you a chop!”

It was an enormous, swollen corpse that was floating down with its feet
sticking straight up in the air.