OceanofPDF.com

I
woke up feeling more rested than I had in a long ass time. Besides the numbness in my right leg, my body was energized and my mind was less clouded than usual. I didn’t even realize how stressed I'd been over the past few months. I hated to admit my relationship was the biggest stressor, and spending the night with Shy made me realize that.
Our interaction was the way I wished shit was with my man. He was so attentive, chill, and down to earth. His ass was still cocky as fuck—which he had every right to be—but there was more to him. I was honestly thinking there wasn’t much that I could offer his ass outside of sex. The shit I did for Anthony, Shy did for himself and then some. Granted, I was sure he’d enjoy the break, but a female to him wasn’t a necessity.
Men like Shy were rare, and I'd managed to luck up during the most inopportune time of my life. I had no fucking idea where he and I were going or if I should stay away because, although I was feeling him, I loved Anthony’s ass. Shy knew it, too, and that was the reason he was thinking about stopping shit with me before things got too deep.
“Shy.” I shook him by the shoulder, and he grumbled. “You have to take me to
Peaches’ house. Get up.”
“What time is it?”
“I wouldn’t know since you never gave my phone back.”
“Still might not give it to your ass,” he rebutted.
My eyes rolled then instantly went to his bare chest as he sat up, stretching his body before he stood so that his dick was right in my line of sight. It was obvious that he had a morning wood, and a grin was plastered on his face as I gazed up to him.
“Come take a shower with me before we leave,” he requested.
“I don’t have any extra panties.”
“Free ball. You have on tights, shorty. Let that pussy breathe.”
My head shook as he frowned. “I don’t think that’s a good idea. The sex and spending the night with you has me thinking irrationally.”
“Well, think irrationally for a lil’ while longer and shower with me. We ain’t gotta have sex.”
“Yea, right.” I twisted my lips to the side as he laughed.
“I’m serious as hell. I can control my dick. Stop acting like you don’t want to.”
He didn’t give me time to mull over it before he was taking my hand, urging me to my feet. Since I wasn’t sure whether or not the moment would end up our last, I threw caution to the wind—just as I had for his ass any other time that we were together—and followed him into the bathroom.
After giving me a washcloth and towel, he turned on the shower then made sure the temperature was right before stripping out his clothes which weren’t much. I was trying my goddamn hardest to not stare at his dick that was semi-hard and bouncing with each of his movements, but of course, I couldn’t steer my eyes away to save my life. My pussy began throbbing and begging for him to slide inside me as I ignored it as best that I could. Shy knew exactly what the hell he was doing.
“You gon’ take your clothes off, or do I need to?” he quizzed with a simper.
“I got it.”
“Hurry yo ass up, then.”
He shot me a wide smile that had my clit jolting in excitement. His grillz were removed from his mouth, showcasing a pretty ass set of white, perfectly aligned teeth. I loved his
grillz because they added that extra appeal, but knowing he had a smile that was able to put niggas to shame, was all the better.
I slowly came out of my clothes, making sure to place everything besides my panties and bra neatly onto the sink. Hopefully, Anthony was up early to run the streets or hadn’t made it home yet. If he noticed I wasn’t wearing either, his ass was going to blow a fucking fuse. The last thing that I was in the mood for was hearing his damn mouth.
I finally climbed in the shower behind Shy and had to take a deep breath because the sight of him had me speechless. My teeth nipped at my bottom lip as I watched the water pouring over his body, enhancing the ink on his skin while causing me to wonder if I had been so damn enthralled with a nigga before. His broad back etched in defined muscles was a sight to behold, and the front was pure fucking perfection with those chiseled abs and v-cut that led to the kind of dick that needed a beware sign.
I thought Anthony was fine, but Shy was on a whole other level. He made my body go through multiple motions at once without having to lay a hand on me. If he was mine, my pussy would be raw from jumping his damn bones so much.
“Took you long enough,” he said, turning to face me with a smile that fell immediately. His tongue swept across his lips as his eyes narrowed. “Damn, Ebony. How the fuck I'm ‘pose to keep my dick out of you?”
“I don’t know. Use that control you claim to have.”
I smirked then brushed past him to get underneath the water, grabbing his soap so that I could shower. Thankfully, the nigga used Dove, which meant I wouldn’t have to smell like a man as well. I didn’t understand how people crept around so often; the shit was too much work. I couldn’t even wash my ass without potentially getting caught up by my nigga.
Shy managed to make it through watching me wash off before his arm snaked around my waist—one hand cupping my pussy as his other cupped my breast. My eyes closed as he pinched at my nipple while making slow circles on my clit until it began to swell.
“What happened to control, Shy?” I breathed out, and he bit my neck then kissed the same spot.
“I said that we didn’t have to have sex, and we’re not.”
He spun me around then sucked at each peaked nipple before lowering further as he directed me toward the wall. Once his knees hit the shower’s floor, he hooked one of my legs over his shoulder then spread me open with two fingers.
“Are you ever not wet?” he asked huskily, slurping my bud into his mouth. I gasped and rested a hand onto his head as he sucked with the perfect amount of pressure, popping it in and out his thick lips a few times before blowing as my legs shook. “That shit is hard as fuck, shorty. She ready to cum already.”
“Yes, so put her back in your mouth,” I urged, shoving his head between my thighs as he chuckled.
Instead of bringing me to an orgasm with a few more seconds of sucking, he decided to taunt my ass. My head rested onto the wall and nails scraped along his scalp as his tongue devoured my pussy—lapping between my folds, fucking my leaking hole, vibrating and twirling against my pearl, and even slipping down to my asshole as he spread me wide while I tried to not pass the hell out.
My hips bucked and swirled, riding his face as we moaned in sync. I forced my head to lift and peered down to him, noting his eyes were already staring up at me. I bit the hell out of my bottom lip as I watched him eating me out like I was the best thing to ever hit his taste buds. His free hand was stroking his hard-on hurriedly, keeping up with the pace he was bringing me to my peak.
“You like eating this pussy, Shy?” I asked, pumping against his face as he groaned while stroking his shaft faster. “I taste good, baby?”
“Good as hell. Keep fucking my face. Smear that pussy on my nose and cum in my mouth, shorty.”
I eagerly obliged—humping his face as his mouth latched onto my entire pussy with a vacuum seal. He sucked at my pussy with hunger while simultaneously sliding the tip of a finger into my other hole, and my body hunched forward.
“Shit, Shy! I'm ‘bout to cum so hard,” I cooed, gripping his shoulders for support as I clamped my eyes shut. “Oh, shit. Oh, shit. Fuck, fuck, fuck!”
“Mhm,” he muttered, focusing on the places that mattered most.
A few seconds later, I inhaled then released the loudest cry as I erupted into his mouth. My body convulsed as he continued to suck there, groaning and smacking my ass until he tensed then grunted from cumming as well.
He placed my leg down then stood, crashing my body against the wall with his. My lips latched around his tongue as soon as he stuck it out, sucking it as I clamped his face between my hands. I could taste my essence lingering on his buds, and that shit had me wrapping my hand around his muscle that was swelling again.
He pulled away before taking a step back. “Nah, shorty. No sex, remember?”
“Shy!” I whined as he bit back his grin.
“That whiny shit doesn’t move me. Plus, I don’t have any condoms on hand, and I've already fucked you raw twice, on some reckless shit. I should have been to the doctor by now.”
“What are you trying to say, nigga?”
“I’m saying what I said,” he replied, the epitome of nonchalant as he began washing his body. “I don’t run in females bare like that. It happens, but I don’t know what you have going on. That's not to say you’re a hoe, but we don’t know each other. You also have a nigga that I know you’re fucking, and neither of us know what he’s doing. Feel me?”
“I do, and I don’t blame you,” I replied with a shrug. “But you didn't seem to care with the way you just had me cumming in your mouth. You know you can catch it there, too, right? Or did you not take Sex Ed in high school?”
“Yo, your mouth is slick as fuck.”
He popped my ass with his washcloth, and I smacked his chest before starting to clean between my legs again.
I wasn’t about to make a big deal over the situation because I couldn’t blame him. Shit, if I was being honest, I’d slid through to see my doctor after we had sex. I wasn’t about to lie and claim that I'd never had a one-night stand back in the day, but I usually used protection. That night with Shy was just sudden and intense as fuck, so I didn’t think twice about it. Afterwards, I was paranoid as fuck and ended up making an appointment while praying I didn’t have Anthony’s dick burning.
So, he had every right to ensure he was safe. I respected it because most men didn’t even go to the doctor until they either had symptoms or a bitch let them know the deal.
Once we were done handling our hygiene, we got dressed then headed out. Shy, reluctantly, returned my damn phone—but not my panties or bra—so that I could let Peaches know I was on the way. I was surprised that she hadn’t called, but then again, she was just happy that I was with anyone besides Anthony. She was going to curse me the hell out if I cut Shy off.
When we pulled up to her house, Shy parked then turned to me with an expression I couldn’t read. I tried not to grin as he took a hold of my shirt, tugging me toward him for a kiss. His hand cuffed the side of my neck as I angled my head to deepen it while thinking we had gone from a random fuck to kissing in the open where anyone could have seen us.
Whatever we had going on was moving too fast for me.
“Lock my number in your phone,” he instructed, making me sigh because I was conflicted as hell. “Just do it, Ebony. I’m gon’ try to stay away from yo ass, but if you hit me, then that’s a different story. That’s a green light in my eyes to come for you full throttle. I don’t half step ‘bout shit, and I ain’t gon’ start with you. I’m placing the ball in your court.”
I was hesitant but handed him the phone so that he could add his number in. I didn’t want to use his name, so I saved it under
work
. That way, Anthony wouldn’t pay it any mind if he were to go through my phone for whatever reason.
Shy noticed it but laughed wryly with a shake of his head. I could tell he was slightly offended from the way his lips pressed together, but he didn’t speak on it.
“I have to go,” I told him as Peaches opened her front door.
“Aight. Don’t let that nigga stress you too much, shorty. I don’t need your edges missing and that pretty ass face looking old the next time I see you.”
“Bye, Shy.” I giggled while climbing out his truck.
I gave him a final wave then walked inside to an awaiting Peaches, pressing my back onto the door after locking it. Peaches was strolling away but then turned once she realized that I wasn’t following.
She grinned. “He got your ass, didn’t he?”
“Peaches, I cannot see him again. He's all in my fucking head. Over my body. Embedded in my pussy. Like, this nigga is everywhere.”
“Staking his muthafuckin’ claim! I already knew it, and you’re definitely seeing him again. If that man is willing to pick up the slack where yo nigga is falling short, then let him.”
“That’s the thing, he’s going to want more, and he admitted that.”
“Even better. Leave that lame and get with the winning team, bitch!” She threw her hands in the air before asking, “What’s so hard about that?”
“I can’t just leave Ant. Like, I know that Shy is practically perfect, but I'd feel like a fool if I leave my man and end up with worse. Better yet, if Shy and I don’t work because he doesn’t even want me for real. You know these niggas love a good chase. I can’t set myself up like that.”
“Damn, he got you big scared! I see you over there, shaking in yo thong. Wait, do you have one on, or did you fuck it up during foreplay?” She smirked knowingly.
“Actually, we didn’t have sex… he ate my pussy for breakfast, but that’s beside the
point! This shit is messy, and I’ll be the one looking dumb in the end with my luck. I rather stick to what I know than to let him mind fuck me and dip.”
“So, that’s it? You're not fucking with Shy anymore?”
“No.” I shook my head vehemently, and she sucked her teeth.
“E, go home to your stupid ass nigga, and let him deal with you. I don’t have time for your shit on this lovely Sunday.” She fetched my keys from her entertainment center then tossed them to me. My mouth fell in shock because she was serious as hell about wanting me to leave. “Call me when you start using the sense that the good Lord gave you.”
“Are you really kicking me out, Peaches?”
“Yep. I have company coming over, and I need to cleanse my house of your negative energy before he arrives. The last thing I need is your simple ass vibes locking onto my spirit. Good day.”
“Wow. Fuck you too, then,” I muttered, storming out the door as she came to lock it behind me. “That’s why I’m wishing pregnancy and bad dick into your life!” I shouted as I climbed in my car.
“Oh, you hoe! See, now I have to cancel my dick appointment. You took it too far, Ebony!”
I flicked her off then started my car, backing out with a jerk before skirting down the street as I held in my laughter. Peaches didn’t play about her energy, so she was really going to cancel her dick appointment, which was fine with me. If I had to cut off my good wood, she wasn’t about to get any either.
The apartment was silent when I crept inside. I knew Anthony was home because his car was parked crooked out front. He must’ve come in drunken as hell, which worked out perfectly for me. I planned to change and creep out again because I doubted that I could look him in the face, knowing I'd just spent the night with the nigga that had been plaguing my thoughts for a while.
Hell, I was already wanting to go back there because my mood was shifting as I headed toward my bedroom. There should have been no reason for my own place to bring me so much negative energy. I was supposed to have peace and unwind here, but so much for that shit.
“Where the fuck you been?”
I jumped hard as hell then spun, locking eyes with Anthony as he stood in the doorway. Instead of answering him immediately, I took a moment to toss my keys and phone onto the dresser before kicking my shoes off.
“I was with Peaches.”
“How the fuck you get your phone back?”
I paused momentarily because Peaches hadn’t given me a lie for that, and it hadn’t even crossed my fucking mind.
“I just told you that I was with Peaches, Ant. Someone finally answered for her, so we met them at a gas station.”
“How did you know they answered for her? I was gone, so she couldn’t call you.”
“Nigga, doesn’t she have a car? She came here. I just took my own so that she wouldn’t have to drive me back home.”
“Okay, so why the fuck weren’t you here then?!” he stressed, following me as I headed for the closet.
My nerves had my stomach bubbling like I had to take a shit. I was attempting to play it cool, but that nigga on my back wasn’t helping. It was as if he
knew
I was up to no good. That wasn’t surprising since his ass usually did the same thing and could probably spot the signs a million fucking miles away.
“Damn, can I breathe?!” I snapped, glaring over my shoulder as he ignored my request to back his ass up.
“Ebony, you’re testing my fucking patience. Where the hell were you? I come home at three in the morning to find an empty ass bed. You knew I couldn’t call because your phone was gone. You ain’t even hit me to say you got the shit back either. It's going on ten, and you just waltzing your ass in here like the shit is cool.”
“How many times have you done the same shit, huh? Come strolling your ass in the house after the goddamn sun. Unlike you, I wasn’t out here doing shit to jeopardize our relationship or make you look stupid. I... was... with... Peaches,” I dragged with my fingers
moving as if I were using sign language. “When I was about to come home, some bitches called her phone on some beef shit. I stayed at her place because they claimed they were pulling up. So, no, I didn’t think to reach out to you, Ant. I was more worried about my friend. It’s not like you would have replied anyway. You hardly answer when you’re
working
.”
“That’s bullshit.”
“Oh, really?” My head tilted as he sighed, his hard stare with those piercing hazel eyes beginning to soften.
I tried to not let it get to me—those eyes always did it, though. I could see the love he had for me in them, regardless of how terribly he messed up.
“What the fuck is going on with us, E? You need more attention? More dick, ‘cause you’re the one that barely wants to have sex. What you need to get back like you were?”
“Back like I was?” I repeated, perplexed.
“Yea. Back to focusing on me and getting your money. Not on this sneaky shit and running around with Peaches like you’re single. That hoe gon’ have you losing yo man, Ebony. Real shit. That's probably what her lonely, miserable ass wants.”
I laughed before shoving past him, heading for my keys so that I could get the fuck out. I'd shower and change at my parent’s or Peaches house where I had spare clothes.
“What are you doing?” he asked, coming behind me.
“Leaving, nigga! If I stay a second longer, I may say the wrong shit. Peaches isn’t the one miserable, I am! Talking about I may lose my nigga... get the fuck out, then, Ant! Do us both a favor ‘cause I'm over your bullshit. I'm over the random hoes, worrying ‘bout what the fuck you’re doing when you don’t come home, and I’m damn sure tired of not having sex!
“You know why I don't let you touch me? It’s because I don’t know if my pussy is gon’ burn when I piss the next morning. I don’t trust your dick,” I admitted, ranting like my mind was bad as he stood in the middle of the floor with his mouth gaped in disbelief. “I’m not begging you to stay anymore. If you want to go, leave. You can be single and fuck all the hoes you want, Anthony.”
It was so silent after I spazzed that I thought I'd gone deaf. Anthony stood in front of me with his jaw tight and eyes narrowed as if he wanted to knock my head between the bed and the nightstand. I dared him to touch me; I'd have my father light his ass up. He stepped into my face then glowered down at me as I shot his ass the same look, waiting
for him to make a move.
What I wasn’t expecting was for his ass to kiss me. His hand gripped my chin roughly as he groped my ass with the other, tonguing me down like he used to when we first got together. I could feel his dick bricking up, and I prayed he didn’t try to fuck me because my pussy would tell every lie I was hiding.
“I don’t want to leave, Ebony,” he whispered against my mouth. “I love the fuck out yo ass, and you know that shit, man. We just talked about doing better. Now, you’re trying to get rid of me. You fucking someone else?”
“What?!” I shrilled. The expression on my face was appalled, but my heart was slamming into my chest at him picking up on the shit so easily.
“I ain’t accusing you, and I know that ain’t yo style, but what else am I supposed to think?”
“That I'm fucking tired and fed up. That you need to step up or get out the way for someone that can treat me right.”
“Let’s go on a date tonight,” he suggested, and I folded my arms in disbelief. “I'm going to make reservations somewhere for around seven. I got some moves to make with Mal, but I'll be back no later than five.”
“Don’t make me get dressed for nothing, Ant.”
“I’m serious,” he stated, slipping my keys from my hand. “And I'm taking these to make sure you don’t go anywhere. Tell Peaches you can’t come out today.”
“I wasn’t planning to go anywhere.”
“Good.” He pecked my lips again then squinted, his eyes dancing over me in scrutiny as I held my breath. He touched my hair before saying, “Make sure you wear yo shit like this, too. I like it down better than pulled back.”
“Okay.”
Thankfully, he left right afterward, although he took my fucking keys. I wasn’t even pressed about it as I grabbed my phone then crashed into bed. The first thing I did was pull up my contacts, staring at Shy’s number that I saved.
I decided that if Anthony actually made his ass home at five so that he could get dressed and have us to that seven o’clock reservation on time, then I'd delete the number. If that nigga was more than thirty minutes late, however... Shy was going to nickname my ass Burger King with how he’d have shit his way.
OceanofPDF.com

Contents
Ladies Night
1.
Ebony Lassiter
2.
Anthony Wright
3.
Ebony
4.
Shylan Pierce
5.
Ebony
6.
Ebony
7.
Shylan
8.
Ebony
9.
Anthony
10.
Shylan
11.
Ebony
12.
Ebony
13.
Shylan
14.
Ebony
Ladies Night
Coming Soon From Kaylyn
Also by Antoinette Sherell
OceanofPDF.com

S
hit with Ebony was getting out of hand.
We'd never gotten to the point where she was telling me to leave or talking out the side of her neck about not wanting to fuck me. Yea, she’d hit me with some slick shit from time to time, but she was on a whole new level. I could admit that she had my ass worried to an extent.
I loved Ebony, but more than that, I loved the lifestyle she provided us. I didn’t have to pay a single bill besides my car note, insurance, and cell phone because she paid everything else. Not to mention, I could move however I pleased, spent my money on the shit I wanted like my outfits and sneaker game, and I came home to a clean house with a meal on the days I made it there in time to eat with her.
She treated a nigga like a king, and there weren’t too many other bitches that would cater to me like my girl. At least, not for a long period of time. Jalisa was possibly the only
female I could live with if Ebony kicked me out, and I damn sure wasn’t trying to stay with her. She was sloppy and couldn’t cook worth a damn. She'd also see that as a motive to leave our son anytime of the day, when I had shit to do and couldn’t sit in the house with him like that.
I had to get on my game if I wanted to convince Ebony that I was changing. A few date nights and quality time in the crib instead of hitting the club would do the trick; I was certain. I shouldn’t have suggested tonight, though, because Mal was grilling out at his spot. I didn’t want to leave early in fear of missing something, but it was the first thing that popped in my head during our argument.
“You good, Ant?” Mal asked, giving me a curious stare as I took a swig of my beer.
“Yea, I'm straight. Why?”
“You just seem in your head. Your ass been sitting in the same spot for hours. Plus, it’s bitches all through here, and you ain’t even checking for none of ‘em. That's the biggest sign right there,” he joked, and I nodded with a scoff.
My ass had been planted in the same seat since I made it to his backyard. The only time I budged was if I was grabbing another drink or food. Bitches were prancing in front of me half naked, but they weren’t keeping my attention since I was too busy replaying Ebony’s words. The more I thought on it, the more scenarios popped in my head that would have me snapping the fuck out if true.
“Hoes are the last thing I'm thinking ‘bout.”
Mal tilted his head before asking, “Since when? Or did you finally decide to take my advice and do right by E?”
“I do right by her ass. Y'all act like I'm just fucking any bitch that’s in my face. I go to other women when I feel like I ain’t getting what I need from my girl. It's that simple.”
“Then, leave and be single, bro.”
“It ain’t that easy. You didn’t leave Briya, did you? ‘Cause you loved her ass just like I love Ebony. It ain’t gon’ be perfect with no bitch, so I rather rock it out with her. Shit just been different lately. I can’t put my finger on it, but E is acting funny. So, I gotta chill out for a minute, show her a little attention, and watch her ass.”
“Watch her.” He laughed before asking, “Why you gotta watch her? Ebony ain’t even that type of chick. That's your guilty conscience catching up to your ass.”
“Nah, Mal. I know what the fuck I know. I'm not saying she can’t be fed up with my shit, but she’s been moving sketchy. She wasn’t home when I got in this morning and
claimed she was with Peaches.”
“Yea, I noticed they’ve been hanging tough again.”
“Exactly. When I met E, she was out there just like her hoe ass friend. Maybe not on that level, but she ain’t innocent.”
I was so sure that Ebony would never cheat on me, but I couldn’t call that shit anymore. For one, she was getting too comfortable with that staying out bullshit. I didn’t give a fuck what time I made it home; I wanted my bitch there waiting on me with spread legs and a wet pussy. The fact that she was creeping out once I left for the club was evidence enough that she was moving shady. Mainly, because she was with Peaches, who hated my ass and would throw any nigga on Ebony just for the sake of pissing me off.
Then, her telling me that she didn’t trust my dick was a red fucking flag. She may not have known that, but to me, she was basically admitting that she wanted to fuck but couldn’t. That meant she’d be willing to get that shit elsewhere if the opportunity presented itself. It was one thing for me to think she simply wasn't in the mood for sex, but knowing that she did and wasn’t doing it with me was a whole other ballgame entirely.
The last and most obvious thing was her appearance. She was dressing sexier, wearing her hair down, and glowing like she was feeling herself. That kind of switch up never came out the blue—either a nigga was in her ear, or she was on the hunt for a new one. I noticed the shit here and there, but none of it had been alarming until she had that fucking outburst. I couldn’t do shit but play it by ear, though.
“If you paid her more attention, none of this would be a problem, Ant.” Mal hiked a brow as I glared at his ass.
“Who the fuck side are you on? I'm starting to think it might be you in her ear. It's always the nigga you’re cool with that’s running yo business back so that he can fuck yo girl.”
“Get the fuck out of here. E is fine, but I ain’t looking at her like that. I barely speak out of respect. Plus, I've been trying to get in with Briya again.”
I choked on my beer before patting my chest. “Where the hell did that come from? It's been a year since y’all called it quits.”
“I know, but—”
“Aye, hold up, bro,” I told him, pulling my phone from my pocket. My head shook as I stared at the number, debating if I should answer before I stood. “Let me take this right quick.”
“Must be Ebony.”
“Yea,” I lied, heading toward the side of his house for privacy.
I wasn’t sure where the conversation was about to head and didn’t need Jamal in my business. That was my boy, but some shit I had to keep to myself. Nobody needed to know about the fact that I was hitting ole girl again. I shouldn’t have started back up with her in the first place because the shit was playing with fire. I ended up fucking her a few more times after the day she came past the crib, but with the way things were going with me and Ebony, it was best to put a pause on her.
“Yo,” I answered, gazing around as I waited for her to speak.
“I need my dose.”
“Of what?”
“Nigga, don’t be funny,” she replied, and I chuckled then peered over my shoulder to ensure no one was eavesdropping. “Come fuck me, now.”
“I can’t. I'm at Mal’s cookout, then I have to take my girl on a date.”
“So, you rather hang around a bunch of dicks than be balls deep in pussy?”
“I ain’t saying all that.” I scrubbed my face while contemplating on what I was going to do. “What about later tonight?”
“I’m having a ladies’ night with my girls.”
“Y’all kill me with that ladies’ night shit. So, you rather hang with your girls than get some dick?”
“Actually, I prefer to chill with my girls, get drunk, then come home to some dick. Unfortunately, that can’t happen because you have a girl. Unless...”
“Nah, I ain’t ‘bout to take it there with you again. When I wanted to be yo nigga, you spun me on some
I'm not ready for another relationship
bullshit.”
“And I'm still not ready. I just want to fuck with no complications, and so do you.”
“You’re anything but uncomplicated. You want shit your way and on your time. That's not how it works when I have a girl.”
“Since when? You can do whatever you want, Ant, and you know it. That bitch lets you get away with murder. All you have to do is say you’re going to work.”
“Not tonight, man. I promised my girl a date, and I'm trying to do better. I gotta cool this shit we’re on.”
She cackled loudly, causing me to frown as she retorted, “Okay, Anthony. We both know that you can’t be faithful to save your life, but good luck. If you change your mind within the hour, which I'm sure you will, I'll be home.”
She ended the call before I could reply, and I released a heavy exhale. Denying her was harder than I thought. I probably needed to block her ass if I wanted to make it through the next couple weeks, at least. It was nothing to cut everyone else off, but she got to me every time because I knew I couldn’t have her. That shit made me want her more and caused the sex to be top notch since we had no business doing it.
I slipped my phone into my pocket then started to head back to my seat but paused when I caught a glimpse of Shy’s car pulling up in front of the house. I knew right then that I wasn’t about to chill much longer, which was cool since it was already after five. I figured I had until six before I needed to get home. It didn’t take me long to dress, and I’d actually set our reservation for eight. That gave me enough time to kick it with the fellas, although I wasn’t feeling the moment with Ebony consuming my thoughts.
The notion of her leaving hadn’t been an issue since we first began fucking around and niggas were on her hard as hell. I was pressed about her then and worried that she’d leave me for another muthafucka because she had too many options. Then, she started falling for me which knocked those fears away because she was all about us. She cut her girls off for the most part—except Peaches’ annoying ass—since they didn't understand her changing for the sake of being committed. Even her parents couldn’t tell her shit about me. She was ten toes down for our relationship, and so was I until the shit lost its spark.
I headed back to my seat since Shy had hit the sidewalk. The same way that nigga didn’t fuck with me, the feeling was mutual. Especially after that little slick shit he was spitting at the carwash. That muthafucka tried to play me in front of Ebony—flexing his little grillz money like my bitch was supposed to be impressed. I peeped the way he looked at her, too, and I bet the nigga hated that I had something he could never touch.
“Shit was good?” Mal asked as I took a seat, and I smiled cockily to put on a front.
“Hell, yea. You know me and E never stay on the outs too long. She's waiting for a nigga to slide through so that we can hit this restaurant then I can hit that pussy.”
“Too much info, nigga,” he replied, laughing as he dapped his brother that had made his way over.
“I thought you said just a few of the niggas, Mal. This shit is jammed.”
“Man, it was but word of mouth is a muthafucka.”
“True.” Shy found an unoccupied chair nearby then copped a spot next to Mal before inquiring, “Who’s black Audi is out front? It looks familiar.”
“Mine,” I spoke up.
“Ant’s girl,” Mal replied at the same time, and I cut the nigga a side-eye.
“Oh, word? Shorty on her shit then, huh? Fine and ‘bout her business. How did she end up with you, Ant?”
“Because she knows a real nigga when she sees one,” I boasted, and he snorted a laugh.
“You’re right about that.”
I started to ask him what the fuck he meant, but Mal shot me a look to chill. Shy was testing me, and I wasn’t giving the nigga too many more passes. If he had a real issue with me and wanted to shoot a fair one, then we could do that. The bitch ass shots were in the way, however.
“You didn’t finish telling me about Briya, bro. So, y’all back on or what?” I quizzed, and Mal shook his head.
“Fuck, no. She told me go to hell and that she hoped karma ripped my heart out my chest.”
Shy burst into laughter. “Damn. It's time to let that go, bro. You gotta accept that you let her get away. You took too long to fix your fuck ups.”
“I know, but I figured since it had been so long that she might have gotten over it.”
“I mean, she might have if you weren’t as bad with it, but you were dogging her out like she wasn’t fine enough to get any nigga she wanted. She's smart, got her own, and she fucked with you when you didn’t have your shit together. That's the kind of female you do right by, but I get y’all were young. You live and learn.”
“He’ll be aight. She ain’t as perfect as she made herself out to be. None of ‘em ever are. If she fucked with him, then she would have accepted his apology, especially when my nigga has changed since those days,” I added my two cents, and Shy stared at me too fucking intensely for my liking.
“Would you forgive your girl if she cheated? If she changed and promised to not do it again, would that be good enough for you? That shit gon’ erase the image of another nigga dicking yo girl down?”
“Hell, no. She would be left in the dust.”
“Exactly. So, what makes you think that it’s good enough for Briya, Ebony, or any other female?”
“I don’t give a fuck, honestly, because I don’t have to worry about shit like that. Me and mine have some unbreakable shit. I may fuck up from time to time, but she knows where it’s at. Ain't no nigga gon’ make her feel like I do, and that’s just facts.”
A part of me didn’t even believe that, but I had to save face. I wasn’t about to let him speak on my girl when she had nothing to do with the conversation. He was too pressed about her and needed to keep her off his fucking mind.
“Do you really think she’s looking for someone to make her feel like you do?” he probed with a look of amusement. “Usually, when a female cheats or leaves, she moves on to bigger and better, my nigga.”
“You got something you want to say?” I snapped, standing as he did the same without a second thought.
Mal quickly filled the space between us and held his hands out. “Aye, y’all need to chill. I don’t know what the beef is, but it ain’t ‘bout to be none of that at my spot,” he stated, glaring at us both before he lowered his hands.
Shy pretended to be unbothered as he pulled out his phone, a smirk crossing his face before he gazed to me then sat down. That was his best fucking bet.
“Yo homeboy is the one that’s tight because he can’t handle hearing some real shit, but I ain’t ‘bout to go at it with him. My shorty wouldn’t want me out here fighting his ass anyway... the only thing she likes me beating on is her guts. He got it.”
After shooting me another taunting smirk, Shy placed his attention on his phone. I pulled out mine and noticed that it was five thirty-two. I hadn’t planned to head home so soon, but he’d blown my vibe. The fact that Ebony hadn’t called or texted was also bothering me somewhat.
“I’m out, Mal,” I said, slapping hands with him as he sighed.
“Aight. Enjoy your lady tonight.”
“You already know.”
I left on that note, speeding to the crib after shooting Ebony a quick message so that she’d know I was on the way. She hadn't replied by the time that I got there, but I assumed that it was because she was getting ready for our date.
My brows dipped as I strolled inside, noting that it was quiet and felt lifeless. My car
was out front, and I had hers, so the only way she could have been gone was if she dipped off with Peaches. If that were the case, I was spazzing the fuck out because she knew we had plans. I could have crept off with my slide if she wanted to run the streets like a hoe.
Luckily, she was sitting in bed when I stalked into our room. I watched as she lathered her silky legs with some kind of body butter that had the entire room smelling good as hell. Her hair was hanging down and pinned to one side while she looked good as fuck in the sheer, orange panties and bra set that clung to her perky breasts and fat pussy.
“Damn, baby. I ain’t seen you in something like that in a minute. We ain’t gon’ make it out the door,” I joked, causing her to gaze up with a light smile.
“I know because we aren’t going.”
“What? Why not?”
“I just got sick out the blue. I think my period is coming,” she explained, climbing from bed. I ogled her perfect body as she pulled one of her t-shirt dresses from the drawer and slipped it on before asking, “Are you able to reschedule?”
“I can, but damn, bae. I was looking forward to tonight.”
“Me, too, but things don’t always work out like we plan.”
She patted my chest with a despondent look then placed a kiss to my cheek before ambling past. I followed her to the living room, my eyes narrowing quizzically as she laid on the couch. I was glad that she let me off the hook for the moment, but something felt sketchy that I couldn’t quite put my finger on.
“If you don’t feel good, you need to get in bed, bae,” I suggested, taking a seat near her feet. “We can lay up and watch some movies.”
“I’m fine here. You can head back out if you want. I'm just gon’ watch reruns and sleep.”
“You sure?” I quizzed, and she nodded. “Aight. Want me bring you something in?”
“No, thanks.”
“Cool. Just text me if you need something,” I told her before standing to place a kiss on her forehead.
Something was telling me not to leave, but I wasn’t about to sit my ass in the house if I didn’t have to. I had no plans to head back to Mal’s place as long as his brother was there either, so I decided to hit that damn girl back since it hadn’t been an hour yet. I was
done with her for real after tonight, though. Shit was getting too hot, and I couldn’t afford to end up caught out there. Especially not for a bitch that didn’t even want me like that.
OceanofPDF.com

A Month Or So Later...
E
bony was about to have a nigga jerking his dick in the middle of work. I licked my lips then angled my phone, embedding the image of her pussy spread wide and soaking wet into my brain. She was good for sending me random shit throughout the day, knowing there was a chance I'd end the night with blue balls if she couldn’t duck her nigga.
It had been weeks since she spent the night at my crib, and I had been fucking her brains out since. I was shocked as hell when she shot me a text that same evening to say she was down with whatever we had going on. I wasn’t sure myself what it was, but I was all in; I knew that much. I wanted her ass every day of the fucking week—morning, noon, and night. Of course, I couldn’t have that yet, but I was working to make it happen.
Every time I was inside her ass, I was writing my name on her walls. Admittedly, there were a few instances I even dumped my seeds so far into her womb that she couldn’t push the shit out if she wanted. Her pussy was the devil; I stayed slipping up in that shit. We had
exchanged medical work, though, which was perfect since I couldn’t imagine having a barrier between us after feeling her velvety walls stroking my shaft.
The thought had me palming my crotch, rubbing that shit to alleviate the pain of growing hard for the millionth time in one day. Ebony must have been horny as hell because she was shooting me nudes before sunrise. Shorty was driving me so crazy that I was close as fuck to snatching her ass up out of her own crib. Shit, I would have pulled up at her spot a few desperate nights if her nigga wasn’t suddenly smothering her.
I must’ve gotten in his head at my brother’s cookout because he wasn’t letting Ebony breathe for shit. Luckily, Peaches was
Team Shy
, so she’d been looking out for me. I'd slide through her place and scoop my shorty whenever she was able to go there, and sometimes, I met her ass on her lunch break and blew her back out in the whip. She loved that spontaneous shit; shorty was down for it wherever and whenever. That was just another thing on the long list of positives I loved about her ass.
I couldn’t see a reason for her nigga to cheat besides being dumb as hell, but I wasn’t about to complain. His loss—which was coming sooner than his ass could fathom—was my gain.
“Boss, I'm going to lunch,” my employee, Josh, informed me as I quickly lowered my phone.
“Cool. I can handle the front. Don’t take all day, though, ‘cause I'm out of here once you’re back. I got shit to do.”
“Aight. I got you.”
I pulled up a chair and took a seat at the counter since it was a slow day. I doubted any customers would enter before Josh returned from his lunch. The only reason I'd come in was because I didn’t have shit to do and hadn’t checked on the place in a couple weeks. My team was pretty good with making sure everything was straight, but I couldn’t go too long without putting in some work of my own. I liked to make my presence known—interact with my customers and attempt new designs for the website as well.
My eyes darted to my phone as another round of messages came through from Ebony. I had to laugh at her ass because she was a piece of fucking work. I looked forward to every time her name lit up my screen.
CHOCOLATE DROP:
Are you at work? I'm about to get off and want to bring you lunch.
As in me. I'm lunch.
ME:
I’m full off you, shorty. How ‘bout I feed you...??
CHOCOLATE DROP:
I thought you’d never ask.
I can already taste you... my buds are leaping with excitement.
ME:
Yo, stop fucking playing and get yo ass here ASAP
CHOCOLATE DROP:
Clocking out. Omw.
I tossed my phone back onto the counter once she let me know she was heading my way. There wasn’t shit else to talk about, and she had better hurry that ass up. As much as we were fucking, Ebony had yet to let me feel her throat, and I was so satisfied with having her in my mouth that I didn’t care. Plus, that fire between her legs did more than its job. I wasn’t pressed about the head, but since that shit was on the table, I was anxious as fuck to see what that mouth was about.
What felt like fifteen hours was a mere fifteen minutes since she didn’t work too far from me. My dick started swelling in anticipation as soon as I spotted her car pulling into the parking lot. Of course, she parked down further in case someone happened to pass by that knew her ride. I was at a point where I didn’t give a fuck if someone caught us—shit, I was kind of hoping they did—but I knew she wasn’t ready for that.
I stood with a hand covering my hard-on and my tongue swiping across my lips as she traipsed inside, looking good enough to fucking eat. Maybe I should have taken her up on that offer because her silky legs that were exposed in the flowy, mid-thigh dress she wore with sandals that wrapped around her toned calves, had me lusting like a muthafucka.
“Where the fuck you coming from?” I asked with narrowed eyes as she giggled, rounding the counter before placing her purse underneath.
“Work.”
“Looking like that? I guess you’re trying to get niggas hurt, huh?”
“Whatever.”
“Whatever my ass,” I retorted, snatching her into my chest.
She grinned as I sank a hand into her thick ass hair then crushed my lips against hers. Her mouth instinctively opened so that I could entwine our tongues. I had never been much of a kisser besides the basic shit if I was in the moment while fucking, but Ebony made me want to suck the air out her goddamn lungs. I couldn’t pinpoint what it was about her ass that made me so anxious to have her near. I couldn’t
not
touch her if she was in close enough proximity. Shorty just did something to a nigga, for real.
“How long before you’re leaving?” she whispered against my mouth, and I pecked her lips a couple more times before releasing her.
“Shouldn’t be much longer. Josh is on break.”
“So, we have time. Sit down.”
“Hold up. What?” My eyes bucked before I laughed as she shoved me into the seat. “Shorty, the doors aren’t locked. Someone might walk in.”
“I guess you have to keep your composure, then. Can do you that, Shy?”
“Shit, that depends on how fire your head game is. I can’t make any promises.”
She grinned while squatting between my legs. “Good. I like it better when you’re vocal for me.”
“Ditto, shorty.”
I winked as she grinned cheekily while unbuckling my jeans. My hands rested behind my head, intending to relax as I enjoyed the shit she was about to do, but that didn’t last long. The instant she whipped my dick out then ran her tongue underneath my head, spit on it, and started stroking me while she licked my balls; I lost sense of control immediately.
“Shit, Ebony,” I groaned, latching a hand into her hair as she popped the head in out of her mouth a few times. The sound caused my dick to jump in her hand as she smiled coyly. “You’re straight pressure, shorty. Dead ass.”
“As long as you know it.”
My teeth clenched as she squeezed the base of my dick then slowly eased her mouth down my shaft. She started slow but quickly gained momentum—using the perfect amount of suction and spit as her head bobbed hastily down my girth while she moaned as if the shit was just as good for her as it was for me.
“Fuck. Keeping going just like that for me. You like how this dick tastes, shorty? Talk to me.”
“Mhm,” she hummed, adding another hand into the mix to wring my shaft as she sucked harder. “So, fucking good.”
She stuck out her tongue, allowing it to glide up and down my vein as she ate my dick like it was all the protein she needed in life. The sight of her lips stroking my shit was a sight, and I knew I wasn’t going to make it, fucking around with her. When she started massaging my balls and suctioning solely on the head, I grunted then cupped her face in my hands to halt her. I needed the moment to last longer.
“Get off the head, Ebony. You trying to make me bust fast. As a matter of fact, no hands either. Just tongue and mouth. Throat if you got it like that.”
Her eyes locked with mine as she removed her hands, placing them on my thighs while she lowered her mouth slowly until my head was reaching the entryway of her throat. My hips bucked on their own accord, and she gagged but didn’t budge.
“That’s right. Take that shit like a soldier.”
I lifted her hair as best I could and held that shit like a ponytail holder, moving it out the way as she sucked my dick just how I liked. Our eyes were trained on one another as she gulped and slurped like her life depended on it. I could tell her mouth was stretched to the brink, but she was working through that shit. The way she was moaning, humming, and swallowing—causing her throat to constrict around my head as vibrations enhanced the feeling—had me ready to bust. I guessed I couldn’t last either way with her ass.
“I’m almost there,” I told her, pulling her head back slightly as I started pumping into her mouth. “Open wider for me.”
Surprisingly, she stretched her mouth with ease and allowed me to fuck that shit as she continued to moan aloud. Her hand went between her legs, and I knew she was about to get there with me. Just knowing that sucking me off had her ready to cum was enough to have my dick swelling in her mouth.
“You cumming with me?” I probed, fucking her face faster as she gagged and her eyes watered. “You look so fucking sexy right now, Ebony. Shit... shit,” I breathed out with a shake of my head. “Hurry up and make that pussy cum, so I can bust on yo tongue.”
She strummed her pearl faster until she was whimpering as her lips locked around my dick. I was in goddamn heaven as she sucked greedily while her body gave a subtle shake, signaling her release. I was already close to following her up when a sudden but gentle pressure was applied to the sensitive flesh between my balls and asshole with her fingers. My fucking thighs cramped and toes curled immediately.
“Mutha... fuck!” I shouted, my fist slamming against the counter a few times as I abruptly exploded into her mouth.
I wasn’t sure where the hell she learned that shit, but I couldn’t decide whether I was pissed or should thank her as I dumped loads into her pretty ass mouth while groaning in ecstasy. I felt like that shit would never end; that was how hard I came.
“You okay?” she asked, standing as I glared at her. She burst into laughter. “I know you aren’t mad at me?”
“I need a warning next time, shorty.”
“If I told you, then you wouldn’t have let me. Men aren’t as open in the bedroom as women.”
“You’re right, and I ain’t getting more open than that. You try to get to my ass, and that’s your ass.”
She cackled. “You’re crazy. Come and clean up.”
“I’m coming once my legs start working. You know where the bathroom is.”
While I put my dick away for the time being, her head shook in amusement as she grabbed her purse then strutted to the back where the restroom was located. We'd gotten it in a couple times in that very place, so she knew her way around.
Although the shit we were doing was fun and kept the fire burning, I was getting tired of it. Just as I assumed from the jump, I was beginning to get too involved with Ebony. The random link ups weren’t enough for me. I was holding out on speaking my fucking mind, but maybe it was time that I did.
If I left the ball in her court too long, she’d think that she was the only player that mattered when my feelings were just as involved. Plus, from my standpoint, there wasn’t shit she could lose ‘cause her nigga was an ‘L’ already.
After allowing my cramp to wear off, I headed to the bathroom just as Ebony was washing her hands. She rummaged through her purse once she was done then passed me a couple feminine wipes that would have to do the trick until I headed home once Josh returned.
“Why are you looking like that?” she pried, watching as I carefully cleaned my dick that was still sensitive as hell.
“Looking like what?”
“Like I didn’t just give you the best head of your life.”
I chuckled before rebutting, “You sound really confident about that statement.”
“I mean, with the way that you were cursing and beating a hole into the counter, I have that right. Your ass almost pulled my hair from the scalp with that grip, too.”
“You were aight,” I lied, cutting my eyes in her direction with a grin.
She knew I wasn’t being truthful because she simply waved me off before stepping in front of the mirror to fix her hair. I stood behind her and took in her beauty as she gave a light smile then turned to me.
“Shylan, I know we haven’t been dealing with each other long, but I can pick up when something is off. You speak your damn mind so much that it’s obvious when you’re holding back.”
“Since when do you call me that?” I asked, ignoring her observation.
“When I'm trying to have a serious conversation with you. Besides, I told you I like that better.”
I was on the phone with Ebony one day while visiting my mother, and shorty had overheard her call me that shit. I wasn’t a big fan of it, so no one used my government except ma dukes... and I guess Ebony, too.
“So,” she pressed, inching closer to wrap her arms around my torso. “Talk to me.”
“When you gon’ leave that nigga, shorty? I ain’t beat for playing this game with you forever.”
“Wait, what?” She released me and took a step back. The fact that she seemed genuinely surprised kind of pissed me off.
“When are you going to choose? Don’t get me wrong, this is fun and all, but I want more. Shit, I want it all. I ain’t no lil’ ass nigga just looking for something to nut in whenever my dick is hard. I’m ready to settle down and with you. I've been doing it your way ‘cause I know this is new for you, but playtime is over. Pick a side, shorty.”
“Shy, I—”
“You still fucking that nigga? You suck his dick like you just did mine?” I quizzed, and she gawked. “You letting him nut inside you and swallowing his seeds? Because that’s the shit running through my mind, and I don’t like that. That's the kind of shit that’ll have me rolling up on a nigga off the hum bug, ready to wreck shit. You know I'd love to do that nigga dirty off the fact alone that I don’t fuck with him. You trying to take me there? ‘Cause that’s where it’s headed.”
I could see the rise and fall of her chest as she stared in bafflement; I had her ass panicking. It was obvious that she didn’t know what to do, which blew the fuck out of me. I was offering her something better on a fucking silver platter, and she was contemplating as if it were some fucking pigs in a blanket instead of caviar.
“You’re the one that wanted this, Shy. You claimed you were good with being boyfriend number two.”
“Not when I'm coming second to a nigga that doesn’t even deserve that top spot. I
also said that it wouldn’t take long for you to see that I'm the one, but I was wrong on that, huh?”
“No, but it’s not easy just ending a five year relationship. We live together. My name—”
“Is on everything, right?” I assumed, and she shut up. “Exactly. Put that nigga the fuck out, Ebony. I'll help you pack his shit.”
She sighed, tousling her hair before she pouted. “This is too much, too fast. I knew I shouldn’t have done this.”
“But you did, so be an adult about it, and handle your shit. If you ain’t ready to leave that nigga, then just say it. I'll fall the fuck back.”
“I don’t want you to do that!”
“Then, prove it,” I retorted, cupping her chin to place a kiss on her lips just as the bell to the front door rang. “Cut that nigga off. I promise, the grass is greener on this side ‘cause I keep my shit watered. Stop playing like this is just sex with us or that you don’t know I'll make you happier than he ever has.”
I shot her ass a stern look of warning then left her where she stood so that I could check out the front. Luckily, it was just Josh’s ass coming back from lunch.
“My bad, boss. The drive through lines were long as hell everywhere.”
“You’re good. If you came a few minutes earlier, you’d have run into something,” I joked as Ebony trudged from the back.
“Oh.” His brow shot up as he smiled in her direction. “How you doing today, beautiful?”
“Hey, Josh.”
“Bye, muthafucka. I told you ‘bout talking to her,” I snarled, taking her hand to escort her out as he laughed.
“He’s just being polite,” Ebony stated.
“That nigga is flirting, trying to get his head knocked off.”
“I can see you’d be possessive as a boyfriend.”
“I’m possessive over anything that I don’t want to share. I don’t give a fuck if it’s a female or food. Same shit applies.” I opened her door once she hit the locks. “What do you have going on tomorrow?”
“Nothing that I know of after work.”
“Aight, I'm taking you out.”
“A date?” she confirmed with a wide ass smile.
“Yea, so get sexy for me. Have Peaches spin some shit for you, too, ‘cause we’re going out of town. I'll have you back by the morning.”
We usually just copped a hotel downtown or hit a restaurant in another city where she knew we wouldn’t run into her nigga or anyone they knew. I wanted to take her somewhere that we could do shit in the open without her being paranoid, though.
“That’s fine. I can call out if I need to.”
“Nah, we’ll have enough time. I'm not gon’ block on you getting ya money. I like that shit. We can make it work.”
“Okay!” she chirped in excitement.
I gave her a quick kiss then helped her into the car, waiting until she was driving off before I headed inside to grab my things.
It was crazy that Ebony was so frightened when I told her leave that nigga, but she didn’t think twice about going out of town with me. I hated to think she was using me simply to fill the voids of whatever he wasn’t doing, while having no plans for us to become more. That shit was potentially the case, though, whether I liked it or not.
I refused to get played out, so she had to get over her fears of leaving a useless relationship. Either that, or she’d have no choice but to get over me.
OceanofPDF.com

S
hy had my mind so goddamn conflicted that I had to talk with someone about our situation. I couldn’t go to Peaches because she was too bias, so I went to the next best thing... my mother.
She was outside, messing around with those flowers she loved so much when I pulled into the driveway. I took my time since I was somewhat nervous about her reaction. My mom knew me better than anyone, and although she never judged, she spoke her damn mind just the same. Her favorite line was,
baby, you are nothing like yo momma
, because she’d grown up in church and was nowhere near as wild and outgoing as me.
It was more so my father that I took after. He was outspoken, brash, and didn’t take any shit—especially when it came to me or my mother. Hell, Anthony was still walking around by the grace of God. My love for Anthony saved his ass because, as much as my dad despised him, he would never do anything to upset me.
“Well, don’t you look pretty,” my mom gushed the instant she noticed me. She wiped her hands on the smock covering her clothing then held her arms out for a hug.
I happily fell into her embrace, not caring if dirt got onto my dress. I smiled as she released me then held onto my shoulders while inspecting me from head to toe.
“You’re glowing, too,” she assessed. “Have you finally left that dead weight of a boyfriend?”
“No, mom.”
“Hmm, that’s too bad. Well, it’s something, but I can’t quite put my finger on it.”
“Actually, that’s what I came to speak with you about.”
Her brows dipped as she hummed then removed her smock. Without her having to instruct me, I followed her into the house and straight to the kitchen table, which was where we usually had our conversations.
“So, just throw it on me,” she stated as she began washing her hands. “I'm sure it’s some kind of drama. You live for that, you know?”
“Mom, I haven’t been in drama in years. I'm not the same teenager that stressed you out and gave you gray hairs.”
“That’s what you think. What's going on?”
“Well, I met this guy a little over a month ago. He's a business owner, sexy, and his di—” I caught myself before saying, “He’s just the total package.”
“I like him already.”
“I figured you would.”
“Which is why you aren’t giving him the time of day, I can assume.” She shot me a knowing glance then placed a glass of fresh squeezed lemonade in front of me before taking a seat. “You hated to be with anyone me or your father liked. Just rebellious for no reason.”
“Mom,” I whined, and she waved me off.
“Girl, just tell me where you’re going with this.”
“Long story short, I've been sleeping with him... but I'm still with Anthony.”
I leapt from the table and rushed to her side when she began choking on her drink. She slapped my hand away, making me laugh as she cleared her throat then glared to me.
“You came way over here to tell me that you’re out here being a Jezebel, child? You know you’re wrong. Sexing on two men, Ebony?”
“Who’s out here double dipping?” my father’s voice asked from behind, causing me to
grin widely as I spun to him.
“Hey, dad!”
“What’s going on, baby girl?” He kissed my cheek. “What is your mother over there about to have a heart attack about?”
“I just told her that I was cheating on Ant.”
“Shit, good! Maybe you’ll leave his ass. I can’t believe he lasted this long. I was almost thinking about just taking his ass out because you can't seem to let go.”
“Wow.” I shook my head while reclaiming my seat.
“Don’t condone what she’s doing, Eric,” my mom chastised.
“I ain’t condoning nothing. I’m just saying I don’t really mind if it’s gon’ make her leave that loser ass boyfriend of hers.”
“I never said that I was leaving Ant,” I informed him.
“Hell, why not? If you can cheat, then you must not really want him. How long it’s been going on?”
“Well, the first time was almost two months ago. Then, it happened again a few weeks later. We've pretty much been going since then.”
“Yep. Seems like you’re over his ass to me.”
“I agree with your father,” my mom cosigned. “You’ve been with Anthony for what? Five years and never cheated until now. That should tell you something. Plus, you speak so highly of this other boy.”
“What’s his name?” my father asked, rummaging the fridge before he pulled out a container of leftovers. “I’m gon’ look the nigga up and see what he’s good for.”
“His name is Shylan Pierce, and please don’t do that. That's why I wanted to talk to the sensible parent.”
“Girl, your daddy is sensible. I got street sense, book sense, common sense. Shit, how many more senses do I need?”
“Warm your food up, and get out of here,” my mom ordered, giggling at his foolishness. “Ebony, the only thing that I can tell you is to go with your gut. Not your heart or mind, but your gut. See, your heart may steer you wrong because that’s impulse. Your mind may steer you wrong because we tend to overthink. Now, your gut, that’s pure intuition, baby. Can't nothing mess with that.”
“I hear you, but I just don’t know what to do. I'm not trying to leave something I've spent years building to jump out there with the unknown.”
“Well, why are you fooling around with someone you don’t even know?”
“I didn’t mean it like that. I know Shy. We talk about everything and every day.”
I wasn’t lying either; a day didn’t pass that we didn’t speak. Hell, we were usually hitting one another up every few hours. I also spoke with him on the ride home and even Facetimed him most nights while Anthony worked.
Shy was a great listener and didn’t have a problem with allowing me to vent about my day if work pissed me off. He also kept me laughing with stories about his family and vice versa. He was a vibe, and I honestly couldn’t go long without reaching out to him, even if I didn’t want anything. Luckily, we shared the same sentiments, so he had no qualms about letting me know that I was on his mind as well.
The one thing standing in our way was mere comfortability. I knew Anthony and our routine like the back of my hand. No, shit wasn’t perfect, but starting over was scary. Hell, change in general was terrifying. I had been with him so long that imagining my apartment being empty when I got there was weird. Not seeing his face every day would take some serious adjusting. I hated admitting that, but I was used to
us
.
In the same token, I couldn’t help wondering where Shy and I could go. He was my stress reliever in a sense, but I wasn’t sure if that was temporary or if he could really keep that energy once he had me. Once the thrill of it all was gone, would he still want me?
“If you know that young man like you claim, then that's not the unknown,” my mom enlightened, interrupting my thoughts. “If you’re that afraid to go there with him, start with dating. It's not like you have to move in with the man or him move in with you. Go out, enjoy one another’s company, and see where it goes from there. It doesn’t have to be set in stone, and you darn sure aren’t missing out on anything if you end your relationship with Anthony. I get that you’re used to him, but is comfortability worth settling?”
“Dang, momma. Are you a mind reader?”
“Child, I've been married for twenty-four years. I know what I know. Before I got with your father, I was the queen of settling. If it wasn’t because I was scared, then it was to make my parents happy. I just realized that
my
happiness was more important because I was the only one that had to live with my decisions every single day.”
“Set her straight, wife,” my father boasted, grinning as he pulled his food from the microwave.
My face immediately frowned when he removed the lid because the smell made my stomach turn. My mom was a great cook, but whatever she had my father eating had the most disgusting stench.
“What is that?” I inquired as my mouth suddenly filled with saliva.
“This is some pig feet, collards, mac and cheese, and cornbread. Want some?”
He shoved it in my direction as my hand shot out and head shook vehemently because I couldn’t even respond. Vomit was sitting right in my damn throat. Pig feet had never done that, and my mother knew it because her stare was inquisitive as I turned to her.
“What?” I asked, working my hardest to swallow that shit down.
“From the way you’re reacting to your father’s food, I think you need to make a decision sooner rather than later, child.”
“What you talking ‘bout, Erlene?” My father stared between us in confusion until her insinuation settled in. His eyes darted to his food then my watering eyes before he barked, “I know you ain’t let one of those niggas get you pregnant!”
I had been sitting in the car out front of my place for a half hour since I couldn’t seem to get out. The notion of being pregnant had me terrified because for one, I wasn’t quite ready to become a mother. Two, I was being a damn Jezebel, as my mother had put it, so I couldn’t call when I'd gotten pregnant exactly.
I was tested right after having sex with Shy for the first time, which meant it happened sometime after that. It was crazy that I'd been using birth control for years, and it never failed me until I was out living my best fucking life.
Truthfully, there was no telling if I was pregnant or not until I took a test. I wanted to grab one from the store but couldn’t risk Anthony finding it. I damn sure wasn’t circling back to my parent’s house either because my father was on one. The mere thought of someone getting me knocked up had his ass losing his mind as if I hadn’t been in a relationship for
five years and living with a whole man. I couldn’t deal with his theatrics.
I wasn’t even about to think of going to Peaches’ house. She would lose her damn mind and probably even set me up an appointment to terminate. She was so damn anti-baby that it wasn’t even funny. If it was from Anthony no less, she’d probably hate my child with a passion.
After sitting for a few minutes more to get my bearings together, I finally climbed my ass out while sighing with relief that Anthony’s car wasn’t out front. For the past few weeks, he’d been smothering me by staying in more often and clubbing less. Had he done that shit months ago, I would have been elated. Instead, I was irritated because it cut into the time that I could talk with Shy.
I hated that Anthony waited until someone else gained my attention to suddenly give me, at least, some of the things I'd been griping about. If he knew that I was pregnant—outside of it possibly not being his—that shit would make his day since he’d have a permanent hold on me.
“Ebony! Ebonnny!”
I stalled just as I made it to the porch, turning around as the last voice that I wanted to hear called my name obnoxiously. My brow hiked as Jalisa came stalking toward me with AJ in tow. I stumbled back as she practically shoved his ass into my legs then turned on her heels to leave.
“Wait! What the fuck are you doing?” I screamed, taking AJ’s hand before attempting to scurry behind her. “You can’t just leave him!”
“Oh, yes the hell I can! You want to play wifey so damn bad, then do your fucking part! Since Ant can’t get him, he’s all yours, boo.”
“I don’t have shit to do with that!”
“You do today,” she quipped, rolling her eyes as she darted for the passenger door of a Charger. It was obvious that the car belonged to a nigga, although I couldn’t see him. “Tell your nigga to stop playing with me. I'll be back for AJ when I'm good and ready.”
I mouth fell wide the fuck open. “Do you at least have anything for him, Jalisa? Clothes, shoes, or his car seat?”
“Nope. That's shit yo nigga should have here. Maybe if he got him more, that wouldn’t be a problem. Y'all figure it out.”
She slammed the car door shut before I could say another word. I wanted to run over there and snatch that shit open to beat her face in, but AJ was saving her.
“You stupid, unfit bitch!” I shouted, scooping him up as the car skirted off.
My fucking blood was boiling; I wanted to beat her ass so bad. More than anything, I wanted to curse Anthony the fuck out because she was right to an extent. He should’ve had something for AJ—at least a few outfits for emergencies. Jalisa usually packed a bag since he never stayed more than a day at a time. I figured she didn’t allow him to come as much and had Anthony visit him at her place because she hated my guts. Maybe, it was more to it than that.
“Are you okay, AJ?” I asked, smiling as he gave a nod before peering around the apartment as we entered.
“Is daddy here?”
“No, but I'm about to call him right now,” I assured then sat him on the couch.
I plopped next to him then removed my purse from my shoulder, fishing my phone out to call his stupid ass dad. The upside to that nigga acting right for once was that he picked up the phone on the first call, versus me having to hit his line a million damn times just for him to possibly not even answer.
“What’s up, bae? You home?” he quizzed the instant he picked up.
“I am, and so is your son.”
“What? How’d he get there?”
“How do you think, Anthony? Jalisa pulled up and dropped his ass off then dipped.”
“I swear, I hate having a baby with her dumb ass! I'm going to make her come back, aight? You won’t have him long.”
“I doubt she’s coming back, Ant. She told me to tell you stop playing with her and that she’ll pick him up when she’s ready. She also didn’t pack him anything.” I gave AJ a once over then shook my head. “He doesn’t even have a shirt on, and these shoes are dirty as hell. He can’t walk around like this.”
“Fuck! Aight, I'm going to stop past Walmart once I get off and grab him a few things. He should be good for now, though.”
“When you get off? It's not even five yet, Ant. When do you plan on coming home to get your damn son?”
“E, I'm handling business, bae. I'm at the place, getting these flyers made and then I gotta help Mal with something before I head into work. Just chill with him for me. AJ ain’t no trouble, and you know that.”
“I do, but that’s beside the point,” I griped, blowing out a breath of frustration. “You know what? Whatever. I'll see you whenever you get home.”
“I’m coming straight after work. If you want, I'll pick y’all up to go with me to the store.”
“Didn’t I just say that your son doesn’t even have a shirt on. Plus, it’ll be too late to take him out.”
“Damn, you’re right. Just hold tight for me, E. I appreciate you, bae, and we gon’ take a trip after he goes home,” he stated with actual excitement in his voice. “I got the hookup on hotels, so I want to book us a room out of town. We can chill and even go on that date we never got to have.”
“Where is this coming from?”
“I’m just trying to get us back to where we were in the beginning, feel me? I can tell you don’t care anymore, but I'm going to keep trying to prove I still want to be with you. You hear me, E?”
I frowned before nodding my head as if he could see me. His statement about my not caring threw me because, as far as I knew, I was acting the same as I had before meeting Shy. Clearly, I was giving off signs that I hadn’t even noticed.
“Ebony?” he called.
“I'm still here, and I hear you. Do you want to talk with AJ?”
He went mute momentarily before replying, “Nah, I'll see him when I get there.”
“Okay, then. Bye.”
I hung up before he tried to keep the conversation going. The fact that he didn’t even want to speak with his son rubbed me wrong. I was already vexed that he was placing some damn flyers and whatever his friend needed him for above AJ, but refusing to have a few words with his son took the fucking cake. I had never thought about what having a child with Anthony would be like, but I could admit that he had a bitch nervous.
OceanofPDF.com

“
D
amn, can your job do anything without you? They've been calling nonstop since yesterday,” Anthony griped, glancing to my phone that was flashing silently with
work
across the screen.
I flipped it over then continued to eat my breakfast while hoping Shy wouldn’t call again. We hadn’t talked in almost two days because I was too discombobulated to really have a conversation with him. The nigga called so much that I had to put my phone on DND.
He was obviously fed up and didn’t give a fuck about how I felt because his ass started calling repetitively, to the point that it allowed his calls to still get through. I was stressed enough without the added pressure from him, along with Anthony clocking my every move.
I was, thankfully, able to squeeze in an appointment with my OB without him noticing. I snuck off while he and AJ were napping. Of course, I found out that I was indeed pregnant. Three weeks to be exact, which meant I couldn’t have been pregnant by
Anthony. Once I decided to take Shy up on his offer, I'd been avoiding sex with Anthony however I could, although it was already minimal before.
A part of me was hoping that I wasn’t knocked up at all, though, especially since my period wasn’t that late and was off some months due to birth control. That would have been too much like right, though.
The situation had me so fucked up that I couldn’t even go to work the past two days. I hardly ever called out, so I was given some grace. That also made it more believable that
work
was blowing up my phone.
“What the fuck was that?” Anthony asked, and I slowly lifted my eyes from my plate.
“What was what?”
“Why did you flip your phone over?”
“Because they keep calling, and I don’t want to see it. I called out, which means that I don’t want to be bothered with them.”
“Maybe you should pick up, and they’ll stop.”
“Nope.” I stood then headed for the trash, tossing the rest of my food. My appetite was completely gone from his interrogating. “You were just complaining about them calling, and now, you want me to pick up.”
“Because you’re on some other shit, E. You must think I'm a dumb nigga or something.”
“What the fuck are you talking about?” I shrilled, throwing my hands up in exasperation. “I flipped my phone over. So, what?”
“Are you fucking someone else, Ebony?”
“You gotta be kidding me.”
I stormed out the kitchen, feigning anger while I was panicking internally. I mean, he had a few reasons to question my cheating, but the nigga had no fucking right. He was noticing every difference in the way I moved because his ass used to do the same things. I guessed it wasn’t any fun when the rabbit had the gun.
“So, you don’t have shit to say?” he barked, following as I entered the bedroom. “Who is it, Ebony?”
“Ant, I get that you’re carrying around a lot of guilt, but you’re not about to project that shit on me. I’m not in the mood, and you need to be quiet before you wake up AJ. Especially when you know that you aren’t going to deal with him.”
He didn’t have shit to say then as I rolled my eyes while climbing in bed. That nigga was acting as if he were clueless when it came to AJ. I wasn’t sure if he truly didn’t know how to take care of him for a long period of time, or if he knew I'd do it because he was acting simple as fuck. Regardless, I was happy as hell that I wouldn’t become his baby mother number two. Granted, I wasn’t sure if Shy would be a good father either—or if I even wanted to have it—but I was praying he kept the same energy and held shit down whether we ended up together or not.
“I have somewhere to be in a lil’ while,” Anthony stated after standing over me for a minute or so. “Is my son good, or do I need to take him?”
“If I told you to take him, would you?”
“Man, fuck it. I'll take him with me. You ain’t ‘bout to act like my kid is bothering you.”
“I'll go get his seat out my car,” I quipped.
He stared dumbly as I hopped out of bed and moseyed to the dresser, snatching up my keys before proceeding outside to do just that. If he thought he was about to make me feel bad with that reverse psychology bullshit, his ass had another thing coming. Hell, I needed a moment of solace so that I could figure out a way to break up with his ass anyway.
There wasn’t and would never be a good time to tell him, so I was ready to get the shit over with. I was tired of the lies on his part, the sneaking on mine, and the accusations from us both. Besides, creeping just wasn’t for me; I was too lazy for the shit, and there was no point in continuing to stress about something I knew the answer to.
My mom told me to trust my gut, so after Jalisa pulling that stunt, seeing Anthony act useless with AJ, and finding out that I was pregnant with a child that didn’t belong to him; all signs led to Shy. Truthfully, my gut was tugging me toward him since day one, but I was being a scary ass bitch about it.
Once Anthony left, I had every intention of going over to Shy’s so that we could have a conversation about my pregnancy. I was avoiding him, but the shit was inevitable because he’d find out one way or another. I just hoped he wasn’t too pissed with me about ignoring his calls or wouldn’t switch up and get amnesia about the fact that his pull-out game was pretty fucking weak.
As if I'd thought the nigga up, I heard someone bark my name as I was grabbing AJ’s seat out the back of my car. I froze with wide eyes before shooting up in alarm. When I got the courage to glance over my shoulder, I almost pissed my pants at the sight of Shy
storming toward me.
I wasn’t sure if it was because I missed him, but I'd never seen his ass look so fucking sexy. The deep scowl on his face had his thick brows pinched together while his hooded eyes were in slits. His mouth was even tense with his lips tucked inward—the same as when he was on top of me, stroking my pussy while concentrating to not bust fast.
I wasn’t even going to get on his goddamn body! Shy was the epitome of an Adonis, with his thick, tatted biceps displayed in the wife beater he wore. The bulge that I knew all too well was also slightly visible in his balling shorts, and I wasn’t sure how I felt about that shit. I wasn’t even in the position to fuss about it when I needed to hurriedly deescalate the situation brewing before it got out of hand.
He waltzed right up to me, closing the car door before shoving my body against it with his. I had to swallow through my sudden cottonmouth as he glared into my eyes with a slightly heaving chest and a lick of his lips.
“Shy, what are you doing here?” I croaked, clearing my throat as his nostrils flared.
“You know why I'm here. Fuck kind of games you on, shorty.”
“I know you’re mad, and you have every right to be, but you can’t just pop up—”
“You think I give a fuck ‘bout you living with that nigga?” He cut me off, gripping my neck to force my head upward as my pussy began contracting. “You thought I was playing? I already told you that I was taking shit light for your sake, but I feel like you’re confusing that shit with weakness. I said from the gate you were gon’ do this bullshit, and I also told you how I was gon’ react. So, since you ain’t handling me right, this is me showing my ass. Is that nigga in there?” he quizzed, glancing around until he spotted Anthony’s car. “Yea, that nigga is here.”
“Please, Shy. Don't... don’t!” I squealed, tugging his arm as he tried to walk in the direction of my apartment. I wasn’t even sure how he knew where I lived, but that shit had Peaches written all over it. “Can you just wait! Just... I’m pregnant!”
I wasn’t sure what made me blurt that shit out, but I needed him to pause for a second. That shit sure as hell got his attention because he spun to me quickly as hell.
“Pregnant? By who?!”
“Nigga, ain’t no muthafuckin’ owls out here! By
Mr. I Can’t Pull Out.
That's who!” I shouted, shoving his chest.
“You sure it’s mine?”
“Yes, Shy. I'm only three weeks, and I haven’t slept with—Shy!”
I shrilled before beaming as he abruptly gripped the back of my neck then tongued my ass down. His hand dipped inside my shorts, groping my ass while holding me as closely as possible. At that point, I didn’t even give a fuck that we were right outside my apartment where my neighbors could clearly see or that Anthony could walk outside any minute.
“You’re positive it’s mine, shorty?” he verified again once he let me up for air.
“Trust me, Anthony hasn’t touched me since before the car wash. You can go with me to my next doctor’s appointment if you want to confirm the conception date, and we can even do a DNA test.”
“So, you want it?”
“I mean, I don’t know, honestly.”
“And I can respect that,” he replied, giving a comforting smile. “Just don’t make any rash decisions yet. We’re grown as hell. I know you said it’s moving too fast, too soon, and you’re right. But shit, it’s ‘cause I know what the fuck I want. I wasn’t thinking ‘bout a child, but I was also shooting the club up every chance I got, so we knew that was an outcome.”
“I was on birth control.”
“Even so, shit happens, shorty. I don’t know what you’re going to do, but I know one thing for certain… I need that nigga out yo spot before the end of day. If you think I'm ‘bout to have him anywhere near you, then you’re out yo mind.”
“I know this, Shy. I was planning to tell him later or tomorrow at the latest. His son is inside, and I don’t want to do it with him here.”
His tongue rolled across his grillz in irritation before he nodded. “This is the last fucking pass, Ebony.”
“It’s the last one I need. Swear.” I raised my right hand. “Regardless of what we decide with the pregnancy, I want us to see where this goes.”
“That’s all I’m asking. I’ll let you deal with that nigga, but answer my fucking calls. I will come back.”
“I got it, Shy. Now, go!”
I urged him toward his car as he glared to me over his shoulder. He made sure to peck my lips once more before climbing in his truck as I rushed to grab AJ’s car seat. I was surprised as hell that Anthony hadn’t come out to see what was taking so long. The
nigga was probably in there hitting up one of his bitches. He'd been up my ass lately, but that shit was over since I’d just pissed him off.
My eyes rolled as I picked a few fries out my seat that AJ had spilled. I was a stickler for my car being clean and wasn’t used to mess. My ass would possibly have to get used to the shit at some point if I kept the baby.
I was almost done getting everything out when my hand swiped something hard between the seat. My brows furrowed as I stuffed my hand in further to pull it out since it was lodged in there good.
“What the...” I blinked through my bafflement before inhaling, willing my emotions to not get the best of me. Unfortunately, that shit was to no avail. “This muthafucka got the right one today,” I snarled, fed the fuck up.
I left my keys and AJ’s seat right there with my door wide open as I stormed back inside. Anthony was heading my way as if he were finally coming to check on me but halted once he noticed my expression.
“Where is the car seat?” he quizzed.
“Fuck all that... who the hell is this?”
I held up the bitch’s ID I found in my backseat, and he stared blankly.
“Huh?”
“If you huh, you can hear! Who in the fuck is this?!”
He gave a nervous laugh before saying, “Man, so that’s where it was all this time. That's one of Mal’s girls. She lost that shit a minute ago.”
“Call Jamal.”
“For what?”
“Because I don’t fucking believe you! All you do is lie, Ant! With your trifling, dog, no good ass! You had some bitch in my car and in the back seat, no less. What, y’all were fucking back there?”
“Man, gon’ head.”
He waved me off before attempting to walk away, and that shit triggered every nerve I possessed. All my anger boiled over like a volcano as I lunged toward him and slapped the taste out his mouth. He was so shocked that he didn’t move in time as I began raining blows over him. I was seeing red as I tried to knock that nigga’s head off with every ounce of power in me.
“Stop putting your fucking hands on me!” he bellowed, pushing me so hard that I almost fell on my ass. “You’re asking me about bitches you’re assuming I'm hitting like you’ve been keeping me satisfied. If I was cheating, could you blame me? I'm not saying I am, but we ain’t fucked in over a month! You’re rationing pussy like a nigga doesn’t have needs. Faking like you’re on your cycle when I haven’t seen not one tampon or pad in the damn trash. If it ain’t that, then you’re too tired or sick, but can dip out with Peaches quick. I’ve been ‘round here, working to get us back like we were. I'm focusing on us, while you’re busy—”
“Fucking someone else,” I finished, causing the color to drain from his light ass.
The air around us grew tense as hell at my admission, but I didn’t give a damn. It was a long time coming, and since he didn’t care about hurting me, he was going to fucking hurt, too! We were doing an eye for an eye ‘round this muthafucka. Even if he was being truthful about the ID, he’d done his fair share of shit to last a lifetime.
“You want the truth, right? So, here goes... I ain’t fucked you in over a month because I was getting the best dick of my life. Not only is it good, but it’s attached to a nigga that’s ‘bout his business, is fine as hell, and lets me know every chance he gets that I'm wanted. He swears that I'm fucking sexy in tights or done up... hair in a bun or down my goddamn back! That nigga loves on every inch of me. Puts his mouth on every part of me. He respects my grind and knows that I'm some good shit that a nigga would be stupid to lose!
“Meanwhile, I'm sitting around here miserable with your ass for the sake of years that were worse than good. I’m begging you to act right while that man is begging to be with me,” I stressed, cackling cynically as he glowered at me. “You had me playing the fool, but that shit is over.”
I could see the heat radiating off him as he tried to remain unbothered. After a few seconds, he chuckled with a shake of his head.
“You might not be a fool, but you’re stupid if you think he gon’ wife you, knowing what you did for him while with me. That nigga is ‘bout to use you up then toss your ass out, Ebony. You're a hoe!”
“And you ain’t shit!” I rebutted, clapping to emphasize every word. “Wasn't ever shit, and ain’t gon’ ever be shit. I'm done with you. I hope that bitch or Jalisa wants you because I sure as hell don’t. Get the fuck out my house.”
“I ain’t going nowhere.”
“Get the fuck out, Anthony!” I screamed, and he clenched his teeth with a nod.
“Aight, you got it.”
I exhaled with relief, thankful that things didn’t get too bad after I talked so much shit. At least, that was what I thought. Before I could fucking blink twice, that nigga was picking up my lamp and hurling it straight over my head.
“Nigga, you lost your fucking mind!”
“Nah, you lost yours!” he yelled, flipping my end table over before doing the same to my glass, coffee table. “You think you’re special ‘cause you got a crib and some cheap ass furniture. You ain’t nothing special, E! Niggas wouldn’t even look your way if it weren’t for me. I'm that nigga, and you should be lucky I even stayed with yo ass this long!”
“Anthony!” I cried as he knocked my entertainment system over, breaking my flat screen. “I’m about to call the police.”
“And I'm going to keep fucking shit up until they get here. You're a grimy bitch! Wanna claim you’re loyal but open your legs to the first nigga that gives you some attention. That’s aight, ‘cause I been fucking my baby momma, the bitch you asked about at the car wash, and the hoe on that video!”
That was it for me. I ran into my bedroom and straight to my closet, snatching down shoe boxes from the top shelf until I found the exact one that I was searching for. I clicked the safety off my Glock 43 then checked the clip before speed walking back to the living room.
Anthony was still on his rampage and ranting until his ass turned in my direction. I cocked back to place a bullet in the chamber before aiming at his bitch ass, causing him to freeze instantly.
“You have ten seconds to get the hell out my house, Anthony. If you think I'm playing, still be standing there. You fucked up my place, your son is in back, and I feel threatened for our lives at this point. How you gon’ act?”
“So, you gon’ shoot me?” he quizzed with a raised brow as I applied pressure to the trigger.
“Just as sure as my nigga’s name is Shy.”
His eyes bucked at that revelation then darted to my gun. I could tell his ass was fuming and wanted to risk it all. A door creaking from back was the only thing that had him backpedaling before he left out, slamming the door behind him.
As AJ came up behind me, I couldn’t help thinking that his daddy decided to dip
because he didn’t want to take him. That shit had nothing to do with my gun.
Anthony was truly a pathetic ass nigga. How fucking blind had love made my ass to not see that?
OceanofPDF.com

I
wasn’t even down the street good when a call from Ebony interrupted my music. I figured Anthony had taken his bitch ass on, and she wanted to talk more about the whole pregnancy situation. That shit had lowkey blew my whole mind, but I played it cool since there wasn’t shit that I could do about it. It was her call, so I had to be cool with whatever decision she chose.
On some real shit, I wouldn’t totally mind a mini me running around fresh like his daddy or a princess to spoil. Thirty was coming up on my ass fast, and my ma dukes had been pressing the idea of me settling down to give her some grandbabies soon. I was sure she didn’t mean within months after she mentioned the shit, but it was what it was.
“What’s good, shorty?” I asked, switching lanes to hop on the interstate.
“Can you come back, please? I need you to help me drop Ant’s shit off to his baby mother.”
“Say word?” I hit a sudden left at the light, causing horns to honk as I made a U-turn and headed back toward her place. “I’ll be there in five.”
“Okay.”
That was all I needed to fucking hear. If she was going to do that shit so soon, she should have let me run in there and beat that nigga’s ass. The one thing keeping me from doing so was the fact I knew she had a nigga from jump. That would’ve been some hoe shit had I blown up her spot while she wasn’t quite ready. Bitches did it all the time and caught flack, so I wasn’t about to be categorized with the hoes and side pieces that didn’t know their fucking place.
I frowned subtly as I pulled in front of her spot, noticing the car seat was outside and her car door wide open. The first thing that came to mind was that he’d caught her and waited for me to leave to address that shit. The notion had me parking quickly as fuck, not caring that I was taking up two spaces that belonged to someone else. I hit my locks then grabbed her shit before hauling upstairs.
The door was unlocked when I turned the knob, so I invited myself inside. I had to pause at the damage done to her fucking living room. Yea, I was beating the fuck out of that nigga on sight.
“Ebony!” I barked, carefully walking through the glass littering the floor.
“I’m in my room!”
I headed back there and had to laugh when I laid eyes on her. Shorty had all his shit on the bed, folding each item casually before placing it into a black garbage bag. I would have simply tossed his shit inside, but just seeing her do it so calmly ensured me she had reached her level of no return. She was done. That made a nigga feel better because, after her taking so long to leave, a part of me wasn’t certain that she wouldn’t run back to his bitch ass. Especially since the pregnancy probably forced her decision.
“I was about to ask did that nigga put his hands on you, but you still fine as fuck. What happened?” I queried, propping onto the dresser.
“I was grabbing AJ’s car seat and found some bitches’ ID in my car. They were probably fucking, and she had it in her pocket. His dumb ass claimed it was one of your brother’s girls. Of course, I didn’t believe his ass since—”
“That was how you lost your phone in my car.” I grinned as she peeked at me with a smirk.
“Stop bringing up the past, Shy. Anyway, when I asked him to call your brother, he wouldn’t so I knew his ass was lying. It pissed me off so bad that I just confessed everything, and he lost it. Hence, my fucking living room that he destroyed. I had to pull my
gun out for him to leave.”
“Well, that nigga forgot something, didn’t he?”
My eyes darted to the youngin’ sitting on her bed while munching on a bag of Cheetos. Last time that I checked, Ebony’s pussy hadn’t pushed any kids out.
“Yep. He left AJ, so I figured that I'd drop him and his daddy’s clothes off. Kill two birds with one stone.”
“Damn. That's some weak shit.”
“Tell me about it. I shouldn’t be too much longer, though. I'm donating all his shoes to Goodwill.”
I burst into laughter. “That’s tough. Do you, shorty.”
While she handled her ex’s shit, I started cleaning up the living room as best that I could. I was regretting leaving earlier because anything could have happened. Had she not owned a gun, that nigga could have potentially beat her ass. I was a man, so I knew that our pride was a muthafucka and caused us to react irrationally most times.
Finding out that she was cheating—and with me out of all people—had to have struck a chord with his ass. As long as he hadn’t touched her, I didn’t give a damn about how he channeled that anger. He was still going to catch this fade, though.
As I was sweeping up the glass, something caught my attention from the corner of my eye. I realized that it was the ID Ebony was talking about. Curiosity got the best of me, and I picked it up because I wanted to see what bitch had him doing my shorty that dirty. Ebony was top tier to me, so there weren’t too many females that were worth cheating with, in my opinion.
Anthony didn’t discriminate because the majority of hoes I knew him to smash were toss arounds. Either that, or their bodies were fire but had a face only a mother could love.
The face I saw, however, was actually pretty and also familiar as hell. I rushed to Ebony’s room, needing her to elaborate on the full story before shit got very muthafucking real.
“Shorty, this is the ID you found in the car?” I asked, and she turned to me.
“Yep. At least the bitch is cute. Why are you looking like that?”
“Because this is my brother’s ex, Briya.”
She paused, a dumb expression donning her face before she asked, “So, he wasn’t lying?”
“That nigga had to be lying, because Briya and my brother don’t fuck with each other. He dogged her ass out bad while they were together, so she doesn’t want shit to do with him. He even reached out a month ago, and she told his ass fuck him and something about karma ripping his damn heart out.”
“Wow. Well, I guess fucking his friend was that karma she was referring to. I knew Ant wasn’t shit, but he ain’t loyal to nobody when it comes to pussy.”
I ran a hand over my mouth, vexed. Mal was going to wild out, but I told his ass from the jump that Anthony wasn’t the kind of nigga he needed in his circle; that was on him. Briya was fucked up, too, but a part of me understood where she was coming from. It wasn’t right, but her moves were made out of hurt and anger. That fuck nigga didn’t even have a justification.
“Are you going to tell your brother?”
“Damn right! We got too much going on at the moment, but I'll chop it up with him.”
“Okay. Well, I'm ready.”
“Aight. I'll take this shit to the car. You get baby boy dressed.”
She nodded as I lugged a couple bags over my shoulder to haul to my truck. Hopefully, dropping the youngin’ off would be smooth and without fucking drama. That was the last thing I needed when I already had a nigga’s ass to beat and a secret to tell that would fuck my baby bro up. The day was messy as fuck.
“Good, she’s home,” Ebony stated as I parked in a lot adjacent to the row of apartments where Ant’s baby momma lived.
“You ain’t check before we came?”
“I don’t have her number, and the bitch doesn’t like me. She also doesn’t know I'm bringing AJ home since she dropped him at my door and dipped.”
“This is the kind of bullshit you were dealing with? Y’all worse than the fucking movies.”
“Unfortunately, this is very much real life,” she replied as we climbed out. She grabbed AJ from the back and placed him down then grabbed his seat out before adding, “Start taking the bags to the door. Number twenty-nine. Don't even knock.”
I gave her a skeptical stare but then did as she instructed, deciding I wasn’t about to ask any questions. Clearly, they had some shit going on that I wanted no parts of. I knew of Jalisa, and shorty was ghetto as hell. I assumed Ebony wanted to avoid a potential situation with her ass if she could help it.
A nigga was wrong as fuck, though, because Ebony started banging on the front door as soon as I placed the final bag to the ground. My eyes bucked as I gazed around, noting the people outside that began staring in our direction with their nosey asses.
The door opened moments later, and Ebony barged her way inside after seeing that it wasn’t Jalisa. I rushed in behind her since I heard a few females' voices. I wanted to be on standby in case they felt froggy.
“Bitch, I know you didn’t just barge into my house!” Jalisa jumped from the seat she was sitting in while getting her hair braided.
“Yes, I fucking did. Here is your son that you abandoned, and yo baby daddy shit is in front of your door. Since you want yo family so goddamn bad, there you go. Anthony’s dog ass is all yours. You ain’t gotta worry about me anymore.”
“Hoe, I never had to worry about you! Anthony been fucking me since y’all been together.”
“And he can fuck you forever. Bye, bitch.”
I pulled the door open and allowed Ebony to exit as Jalisa and her minions scurried out as well. I peeped Shaquanda’s thirsty ass in the mix, too, and I was hoping Ebony didn’t notice her since they had that little situation at the club the night we met.
“Yea, leave bitch! That's your best bet,” Jalisa spat, putting on for the spectators. “I didn’t abandon my son, I left him where his father lives. It's not my fault yo dumb ass put Ant out ‘cause he rather fuck anybody but you. Maybe you should practice some Kegel or something, then you could keep a nigga.”
As soon as the words left her mouth, I reached out to grab Ebony but wasn’t fast enough. She dodged my advance then flew to Jalisa, punching her dead in the face. They stumbled before falling to the ground where Ebony hastily straddled her and began throwing straight jabs to her shit. Jalisa pulled at her hair but wasn’t doing much damage since she was too busy trying to turn her head from those blows.
“Jalisa, get her off you! Beat that bitch ass! Kick that hoe!” her friends instructed, causing me to rush over.
I was bound to nut the fuck up if she even kicked Ebony’s ankle. It slipped my mind that she was pregnant, but we had to wrap that shit up since I was reminded.
“Aye, cool this shit out, shorty. Get up!” I ordered, grabbing her around the waist as she took a handful of Jalisa’s braids. “Let her go, Ebony.”
“Fuck this hoe! She's been begging for this ass whipping. This is what you wanted, right, Jalisa? Tell him how you asked for it, bitch! I told you that one day I was gon’ beat... yo... ass,” she gritted, crashing her fist into Jalisa’s face with every word.
Ole girl had popped all that shit but was ducking and cowering like a practice tornado drill at school. It took a while because Ebony was so hyped, but I managed to pull them apart. I tried not to fall the fuck out laughing when I noticed a few of Jalisa’s braids in Ebony’s hand. She tried to pull the damn scalp from her head because I could see those thin ass, real hair strands at the knots.
“You’re wilding, shorty. You need to calm down. Did you forget you’re pregnant?” I whispered in her ear, and she started to relax.
“I’m good. You can let me go.”
“Shitting me. I'll let you go once we’re at the car.”
“Fine,” she griped, pouting as I directed her away while Jalisa and her friends ranted as if she didn’t just get her ass beat.
Ebony paused as if she’d just remembered something then turned back, a frown gracing her face. She tried to redirect her steps toward them but sucked her teeth once she realized I wasn’t letting her ass loose.
“Jalisa,” she called, gaining her attention. “While you were so pressed about me, you should have been watching your friend. Ant told me out his own mouth today that he’s fucking Shaquanda.”
“What? That's a lie!” Shaquanda’s eyes bugged.
She shook her head vehemently, raising her hands to cop a plea as Jalisa turned to her then stole off. They started scrapping, and although Jalisa couldn’t hang with my girl, she was fucking Shaquanda up.
Ebony grinned in satisfaction before glancing to me over her shoulder. “Now, we can go.”
I couldn’t do shit but shake my head. Shorty hadn’t been mine officially but for a couple hours, and she was already shaking shit up.
Ebony was, shockingly, quiet as hell once we got in the car and I'd pulled off. I wanted to check if she was cool, but I wasn’t sure where her head was. She might’ve needed the silence to get her mind right. Just as I thought fuck it and was about to start a conversation to kill the lingering silence, she burst into laughter. My brows dipped in confusion until her face contorted, and she began bawling like her mind was bad.
I hurriedly pulled over onto the nearest side street then parked. She buried her face into my chest as I pulled her in for a hug, caressing her back while she sniveled between sobs.
“I’m so sorry for crying. I just feel so damn... relieved. That relationship was weighing me down, and I didn’t even know it,” she explained with a shake of her head. “It was nothing but stress and drama that I don’t have to ever deal with again.”
“Facts, and you’re welcome.”
She gazed up with a giggle. “I’m not thanking your ass, Shy.”
“I’m just saying, though. Had you never met me, you’d still be with that nigga. Not saying you wouldn’t have left eventually, but it wouldn’t have been anytime soon.”
“You’re right. I can’t even lie about that.”
“So, like I said, you’re welcome,” I joked, wiping her face before I cupped her chin to bring her in for a kiss. “You good?”
“Yep. I'm straight.”
“Bet. I'm taking you to my crib in case yo ex tries to slid through. I'll change your locks tomorrow.”
She nodded her agreement before sitting back as I switched into drive, heading for my spot. I couldn’t help the smirk spreading on my face at knowing I finally had her ass to myself.
Shorty was a handful, no doubt, but she was good shit and loyal to a fault if I were judging from the way she held that nigga down for years. As long as I treated her well and fucked her even better, I didn’t have shit to worry about.
I sat at the edge of my bed, rolling a blunt as I listened to Ebony snore loudly as fuck. Once we made it back to my place, she showered and threw on one of my shirts before crashing fast as hell. That was about five hours ago, and I doubted she’d wake up anytime soon. Between arguing with Anthony’s bitch ass, packing his shit up, and fighting his baby mother; shorty had worn herself out. So, I was letting her get the rest she needed since, judging from the way her ass was sprawled across my entire bed while slobbering on my damn pillow, she hadn’t gotten some in a good minute.
For some reason, having her in my bed was calming as a muthafucka. I'd thought about having a woman to call my own, but the yearning wasn’t one that lingered long enough for me to take initiative to make that shit happen. At least, not until I laid eyes on her pretty ass. I had no clue what I’d been missing, though, and wouldn’t mind coming home to her every day. I wouldn’t tell her ass that and scare her off, but it was definitely something to look forward to in the future.
Just as I lit my blunt and took a long drag, Ebony’s phone began lighting up next to her on the bed. A smirk crossed my face as I gave her a quick glance, ensuring she was still asleep before I snatched up her phone and left the room.
“Yo,” I answered for Anthony, expelling smoke as I leaned onto the wall.
“Who the fuck is this?!”
“Stop asking shit you know the answer to, homie. It's the nigga that stole yo girl.”
“Nigga, you ain’t Trey Songz. Put Ebony on the fucking phone! And she better not have you around my son.”
“What the fuck you gon’ do about it? Don’t call this phone again ‘cause it ain’t shit that needs to be said. Your son got dropped off at your baby momma’s house, along with all yo shit. You and Ebony are a wrap.”
“Do you really believe that shit? You think ‘cause she fucked you out of spite that she’ll leave me alone?”
“I know she’ll leave you alone ‘cause it’s already a done deal.”
He laughed. “Man, this is nothing new. I’ll be home before the week is out.”
“Nigga, the only home you’ll be is homeless. I gotta go, though, ‘cause my girl is looking irritated that I'm even wasting my time with this conversation,” I told him, grinning as Ebony stepped out the room with her arms folded. “You got any final words you want to say to him, shorty?”
I held the phone out, and she yanked it from my hand before ending the call. I watched as she placed his ass on the block list then took her phone off do not disturb.
“Why did you even answer for his dumb ass?”
“Because I wanted to piss him off. I have some spare toothbrushes in the cabinet underneath the sink.” I changed the subject, and she clamped a hand over her mouth. “Yea, go handle that, shorty.”
“Fuck you,” she replied with a giggle before scampering away.
While she took care of that, I made my way back into bed and got comfortable—resting a hand behind my head as I faced the blunt. I was on cloud nine by the time that she came traipsing out the bathroom about ten minutes later.
“Come here,” I summoned her with a finger.
“You’re high.”
“The fuck that gotta do with you bringing yo fine ass here, Ebony?”
“Because I already know what you want, Shy.”
“Good. So, stop playing, and give it here.”
She smiled while climbing in bed then straddled my lap before taking the last bit of my blunt. I was somewhat surprised when she hit that shit a couple times. Then again, I was realizing there was two sides to her ass, especially after seeing her beat the brakes off Anthony’s baby momma. She was classy but could get hood and ratchet as fuck when necessary.
“You know, seeing you fuck ole girl up like that earlier kind of turned me on,” I admitted, groping her thighs as she did a slow grind against my crotch. “My dick is getting hard just thinking about it.”
“Boy, please. You were already hard when I climbed on you.”
“Well, it’s making me harder.” I jutted upward, and she squealed before laughing.
“Take this shit off.”
I slid the shirt she was wearing upward as she leaned to place the blunt in the ashtray on my nightstand. Once she was done, I lifted it over her head then cupped her full breasts—brushing a thumb over her nipples before I sat up to take one into my mouth.
“Shy,” she whined when I tugged her piercing between my teeth. I sucked gently to alleviate the pain then switched to the other breast to do the same as she squirmed from the pleasurable mix.
The heat building between her legs had me clamping a hand onto her hip so that I could raise her enough to shove my boxers down. My dick sprang out in excitement as I lay back, pulling her along so that we were flesh to flesh. My hands glided along her smooth skin until I reached her soft ass and gave a firm slap. I couldn’t help taking handfuls to knead eagerly while I waited for her to suck me inside her awaiting walls.
She smiled knowingly before tousling her hair to one side, giving me access to her neck. I sucked there roughly as she reached between us to stroke my shaft while swiping my head between her slick folds. Finally, she placed me at her entrance, and I wasted no time thrusting upward.
“Mmm,” she hummed, stilling as I moved from her neck to her mouth.
I kissed her hungrily—entwining our tongues while guiding her up and my down my girth with the grip I had on her ass. That pussy was holding me so tight, and her whimpers were causing me to buck my hips as I forced her down as hard as I could. She was growing wetter by the second, so I knew she was well on her way to busting soon since it never took her long to get there.
“You gon’ ride this muthafucka, or do I need to get on top?” I whispered against her lips. When she stuffed her face into my neck without replying, I flipped us over. She immediately placed her hands to my chest, knowing I planned to dig her pussy out the instant I was on top. “Don’t do that shit, Ebony. Let me stretch this pussy out.”
I spread her legs wide, dropping balls deep into her a few times before I proceeded to put a steady beating on her spot. That long, deep stroke had her sopping wet, to the point that her pussy was talking each time I drove into her. A groan slipped from my lips as I pounded her faster, basking in her unrestrained moans while becoming mesmerized with the bounce of her breasts as her body rocked from the blows. When I noticed the change in her breathing, I positioned one of her legs on my shoulder then leaned down to suckle her nipple that was rock hard.
“Shy, that feels so good.” She wrapped her other leg around my waist and began
winding her hips. “I’m about to cum.”
“Go ‘head and get yours, shorty. Chase that nut, and don’t stop ‘til you busting on this dick.” I tucked a hand beneath her ass, sinking my nails into her soft cheek while drilling her hole as she cried out in ecstasy. It wasn’t long before she was shuddering as her essence poured from her heavily. “There it fucking goes. Yo shit leaking and still got a mean ass grip on this dick. You must want me to cum.”
She tightened her walls purposely then crooned, “Yesss. Cum with me, Shy. Bust in this pussy.”
“Fuuuck!”
I rammed her a few times then jerked out, squeezing my dick hard as hell so that I could hold my nut. I wasn’t ready, but Ebony was good for doing that shit.
“Turn over.” I slapped her thigh.
She did as I instructed—climbing to her knees before she put the perfect arch in her back. I loved the way her ass looked tooted up in the air for a nigga. My hands rubbed on each plump cheek before I spread them apart. I swirled a thumb in her juices as lubrication then stuffed it into her asshole before slipping my dick back into her soaked pussy.
“Shit,” I hissed, giving her long and slow strokes. The way her walls were holding me as I pumped into her had my fucking head gone. “This some good ass pussy, Ebony. She sucks my dick just right,” I praised, opening her wider as I groaned. “Shit was made just for me. Perfect fucking fit.”
“Shylan,” she cooed, her hands clenching the sheets as her head writhed.
“Yea, shorty? Talk to me.”
“Your dick is sooo good. Oh, my God!”
Her walls began to spasm as I thumbed her ass faster while dicking her tauntingly slow. She did a subtle shake moments later before giving me exactly what I was waiting on. I moaned aloud with no fucking shame as she creamed heavily onto my shaft while mumbling belligerently.
“I’m so fucking glad that nigga didn’t know what to do with this shit. It's mine, now, right?” I questioned, speeding up my pace. She nodded, and I slapped her ass. “Say that shit!”
“It’s yours! Shit, it’s your pussy, Shy. Just don’t stop fucking me.”
She threw that ass back, and I grasped her hips to hike her higher then began
hammering her shit while growling gutturally. My teeth caught my bottom lip as I ogled her pussy allowing my entire dick to disappear with ease. I was so fucking turned on that I couldn’t prevent my thrusts from becoming rough and hurried as I neared my release.
“This is why yo ass pregnant, Ebony. I can’t pull out this shit. Fuck!”
I continued to pummel her as she repeatedly screamed my name. My hand stung as I slapped it onto her jiggling ass, doing so nonstop while savagely gutting her out. As soon as I gave her that one deep stroke to the right spot, that pussy started spurting like a broken fire hydrant. I rammed into her harder, groaning in pleasure as she soaked me and the sheets beneath us.
“Goddamn, Ebony!”
My head dropped and eyes clamped shut as I erupted like I'd just gotten home from a bid. The steady contracting of her pussy muscles was milking me dry, and I stayed lodged deep inside her until I was emptied of every single drop.
My eyes remained fixed on her swollen hole as I pulled out once I was done. When my semen began seeping out a few seconds later, I caught that shit with the tip of my dick and stuffed it back inside before starting a slow glide in and out her pussy again.
Ebony must’ve known I intended to start a round two because she hurriedly scooted forward, sighing at the disconnect once I slipped out of her. I figured she was sore with the way I just spazzed in the pussy.
“You can’t fuck me anymore while you’re high ‘cause shit.” She winced as she rolled over with her pretty face scrunched.
“My bad, shorty. That thang is just something vicious.”
She grinned cheekily at the compliment before following it up with a frown as she attempted to climb out of bed. I tried not to but couldn’t stop from cracking the hell up. When she glared at me, I fisted my mouth to stifle my laughter.
“You ‘bout to get in the shower? I'm gon’ join you,” I stated, and she sucked her teeth.
“Fuck, no. Not unless you’re about to eat it.”
“Shit, I'll suck the soul out that muthafucka if I can hit it afterward.”
“Nope. I’m fine.”
I laughed before directing my attention to my phone that began chiming. At the sight of my brother’s name, I scooped that shit up fast as hell.
“What’s good, bro?” I answered.
“Man, you know me and Ant are friends. Why you go and fuck that man’s girl?”
“Fuck Ant, and I need to holla at you anyway. I'm ‘bout to come through.”
“Not right now, ‘cause I don’t want no shit. Ant is here, and that nigga is sick ‘bout that girl. I went through the same shit, so it’s fucked up that you’d do that. He was getting his shit together and hadn’t been fucking with nobody lately.”
“Mal, I know you ain’t call me to vouch for the next nigga like we ain’t blood.”
“It ain’t even that. I'm just saying, Shy, but we’ll chop it up ‘bout the shit tomorrow.”
“Yea, tomorrow,” I replied as I stood, knowing I was about to pull up on those niggas within the hour. “Hit me later.”
I ended the call and locked eyes with Ebony, who was staring all in my shit.
“Did he really have the audacity to go to that man’s house like he wasn’t fucking his ex?”
I scoffed. “I’ll give it to him... Ant has some balls to do some bold shit like that. He probably figured you wouldn’t know who she was for it to get back.”
“So, what now?” she asked.
“So, hurry and shower ‘cause we got somewhere to be. Might as well wrap all this shit up today.”
OceanofPDF.com

W
as it bad that I wanted Shy to beat Anthony’s ass?
After all, I’d finally cheated back, found a nigga that I could pour into without fear of being used since he had more than my ass, and I even got the kind of dick that I wanted to write home to my mom about. But was that enough for me to leave the situation satisfied and with closure?
Hellll no!
Anthony was too fucking trifling, cocky, and disloyal to get off that easily. He needed his karma on every level, so I didn’t even attempt to talk Shy out of going to his brother’s house. It had crossed my mind to tell him simply let it go, but then the fact that Anthony had done Mal so dirty had me rethinking that move. Plus, I figured if he got his ass beat badly enough, then I wouldn’t have to worry about him ever hitting me up again.
“Once we get in here, don’t say a word to that nigga, Ebony,” Shy instructed as he helped me from his truck. “If he tries to argue, I got it.”
“Gladly. I don’t have shit to say to his ass.”
“That’s how it should be.”
He threw an arm around my neck then leaned to peck my lips before escorting me to his brother’s door. I was surprised that he seemed so calm since he looked as if he wanted to kill Anthony earlier. He placed me behind him slightly then proceeded to knock on the door as I anxiously waited to see the shit play out.
“Who is it?” Mal called out, and Shy placed a finger over the peephole.
The door opened a few seconds later, and Shy took a note out of my book. His ass barged right inside and past Mal, heading for Anthony who was seated on the couch and none the wiser of what he had coming. So much for thinking Shy’s ass was calm.
Anthony was a fraction late with noticing the bull charging toward him. The instant that he stood, he was being knocked right the fuck back down with a left hook from Shy. That shit sounded off so loudly that I winced as if I’d gotten hit. Anthony called himself trying to get up and fight back but barely swung before he was met with another blow from Shy, followed by a three-piece that sat his ass down permanently.
I was almost embarrassed because I'd never seen someone get their ass handed to them so swiftly. Thankfully, he wasn’t my nigga anymore.
“Bro!” Mal rushed to grab Shy’s arm, preventing him from doing more damage.
Anthony groaned as he rolled onto his side then cautiously sat up while holding his jaw. His other hand wiped the blood from his lip as he glowered to Shy, but he wasn’t stupid enough to get off that floor.
“I told you not to come here with this shit, bro. The nigga has been through enough,” Mal said.
“Been through enough,” I repeated, feeling somewhat insulted. “He destroyed my house, admitted to fucking multiple bitches, and left me with his son by another woman. But he’s been through enough?”
“I ain’t mean it like that, E. I know he wasn’t perfect, but he loved you.”
“Yea, he loved her enough to cheat on her with your ex,” Shy blasted, digging in his pocket before he tossed the ID to Mal.
Anthony was already working his hardest to stand as Mal caught the ID then peered at it. His expression grew blank before he looked to Shy for an explanation.
“Ebony found it in the back seat of her car. She’s never met Briya a day in her life, so
you know it ain’t from her.”
“It wasn’t even like that,” Anthony pled his case. “I saw her out with her girls and gave them a ride. That's it. I even told Ebony that was your girl.”
Mal ignored him as his gaze went back to the ID. The entire house was dead silent until Mal eventually gave a wry chuckle. I could tell he was genuinely hurt by Anthony’s betrayal, and I felt somewhat bad for him.
“You’re a grimy ass nigga, boy.” Mal’s head shook before he flicked the ID to Anthony. “I knew how you got down, but I ain’t think you’d do it to me. Get out my spot, nigga. You ain’t even worth wasting my energy on. I guess you’ll make sure Briya gets her shit back.”
Anthony stared at Mal for a while to ensure it wasn’t a trick before he bent down to retrieve the ID that had fallen. He slipped it into his pocket, proving he’d been in contact with her and that their shit wasn’t some random run-in as he tried to make it appear. What was even worse was that he didn’t seem to care as he sauntered toward the door with his head high—busted lip, swelling eye, and all.
“Yo, Ant!” Shy called, speed walking toward him as he started out the door. Anthony turned around, and Shy socked his ass again so hard that he tripped over the threshold and fell onto his back on the porch. “I ain’t my brother, fuck ass nigga. Let's go, shorty.”
He held his hand out for me, and I hastily took it then stepped over Anthony’s laid out body. Hopefully, those blows knocked some sense of loyalty into his trifling ass.
Once we climbed into the car, I turned to Shy with a grin that I couldn’t contain if I wanted to. He laughed before shaking his head as he started the engine.
“It was an eventful ass day, huh?”
“Very much, but we should be good from here on out.”
“We damn sure will be,” he assured. “I don’t have bitches on me like that ‘cause they know better, and Ant knows if he even breathes in your direction that I'll knock his ass out. We're good, shorty.”
I beamed before leaning over the console to kiss his sexy ass. He gripped my neck how I'd grown to love and tongued me down before sucking from my top to bottom lip as he groaned.
“I gotta get yo ass back to the crib.”
“Just nasty,” I replied, sitting back before grabbing my purse to fish out my ringing phone.
As soon as I saw Peaches' name, I knew it was about to be some shit. Her loud ass voice came blaring through the instant I swiped to answer.
“Bitch!” she shrilled. “Why didn’t you tell me that you were fighting Jalisa? I had to find out from a video on social media. It wasn’t you on it, but her and that bitch from the club that I wanted to smack, but I saw in the comments that y’all were fighting first. And Shy was with you?! He asked me for your address, but I didn’t think he’d make a move. So, he went and got your ass after all...”
My eyes rolled playfully as Shy and I made eye contact before he chuckled while pulling off. I half-listened to Peaches ranting while knowing once I told her everything, that bitch would be happier than a kid in the candy store. And I mean shit, I was too, so I couldn’t even front.
I snagged a
real
man, left a dead ass relationship, and finally beat Jalisa’s ass. It couldn’t get any fucking better than that.
OceanofPDF.com

“Wait a goddamn minute!” Ashley howled with laughter. “I never got the rest of the story after I sold your ass that bathing suit. So, you cheated on yo ex at the fucking car wash while he was there, then left his ass for the same nigga that also happens to be his enemy? Oh, and you let said nigga knock yo ass up within two months?” she verified, and I gave a nod. “My girl!”
We cackled as I bent my big bellied ass over as best that I could to give her a high five. When I thought back over all the shit Anthony had done, I wished I cheated on his ass sooner. Simply leaving wouldn’t have been sufficient enough for me either because he deserved that karma.
“I'm so glad you beat Jalisa’s ass! She does that same bullshit to my cousin,” Kylie divulged, and Peaches rolled her eyes.
“That’s because he’s still fucking her. Shit, the last I heard, that’s who he lives with.”
“What?! He told her that he lives with his momma!”
“Bitch, his momma is dead!”
“I told you he had his late mother’s name on his neck,” I reminded, and she gazed to the ceiling like she’d just had an epiphany.
Akia cackled with a slap to her knee before exposing, “You ain’t know what that shit meant, did you?”
When Kylie shook her head, Peaches fell to the floor dramatically as the room erupted in laughter. I tried to hold mine back since I was the host and had to set an example for everyone. Akia’s ass was, clearly, a lost cause.
“Are you and your baby daddy still together?” some girl named Giselle queried, causing the room to settle down.
“Yep. He actually wants me to move in once the baby is born, but I rather take it slow this time around.”
“It’s too late for that, boo,” another girl pointed, her eyes darting to my stomach as she grinned.
“You’re right, but we do shit our way. We haven’t been conventional since we met, and we’re good with that.”
“I just want to know, did Anthony try to come back?” Tiffany asked.
“He went to my house that same night and got his shoes before I could give them to Goodwill,” I answered with a roll of my eyes. “Other than that, he really just sent paragraphs and
I hate you
texts through fake numbers. The nigga left a voicemail crying once he found out I was pregnant, though.”
“Then turned around a flattened her tires while she was at work,” Peaches added.
“Nah, I think that was Jalisa. You know she’s still tight about that ass whooping.”
“Nope. I'm telling you that it was him. Ant is a whole bitch outchea.”
“Either way!” I threw a hand up, dismissing her. “I’m tired of talking about his ass. Who's going next?”
“I think the hosts should go first,” Kylie stated, smirking at Akia who sucked her teeth with a cross of her legs.
“You don’t want a story from me. I'll make Ebony’s shit sound like a walk in the park.”
“That’s the type of tea I needs, bitch! What you got?” Peaches asked, leaning in as others raced off to grab more food and drinks.
I cut my eyes to Akia, gauging her expression before she stood and headed for the bar to pour a preparation shot. If that bitch was about to tell one of her infamous stories, I wasn’t sure if anyone would top that.
OceanofPDF.com

Coming Soon From Kaylyn
OceanofPDF.com

Also by Antoinette Sherell
A Love Bred From The Block
Broke Girls & Rich Dreams
Loving The Realest Of Them All 1-3
OceanofPDF.com

“Welcome ladies! May I have your RSVP tickets, please?” I put on my best smile as I opened the door for more guests.
Two of the four ladies standing before me handed over a ticket. They were each good for a plus one, so I moved aside to allow them into the suite. I rented it out specifically for the occasion, and I was glad that I had because there were too many bodies in attendance. All these hoes would not have been in my house, especially around my nigga if he happened to show up.
“Damn. I should have asked who all gon’ be here before I decided to come,” my homegirl, Akia, stated as she traipsed over with her face scrunched.
“Bitch, you planned this with me!”
“Yea, but I didn’t think so many people would actually show. I’on like this, Ebony.”
“Which is the exact reason we’re doing it. We didn’t know each other from a can of paint when we met, but we clicked. The same can happen tonight. You know women tend
to be anti-social, untrusting—”
“Weird, messy, petty, envious, and ghetto as fuck,” she counted off on one hand, saying none of the things I planned to. “Need I go on?”
“No, bitch.” I rubbed my forehead in distress as she laughed.
“I’m just saying, but I'll be good since I need a few drinks and some laughs. The first bitch that tries me, though, I'm going for the jugular. You know I ain’t ‘bout to play with none of these hoes.”
“I know, but I honestly don’t think there’ll be any of that tonight. Everyone that’s showed up so far seems cool. They just want to have a good time and get away from their men, kids, or whatever else that’s stressing them the hell out.”
“Mhm, we’ll see.”
She sipped her champagne then gave me a skeptical glance before strutting away in stilettos that did wonders for her petite but curvy figure. She didn’t have a robe over the sheer, one-piece lingerie set she was donning, so her full breasts and round ass were quaking with each step.
I knew without a doubt she’d get into it with at least one hating ass bitch before the night was over. I didn’t want to think negatively, but some hoes were just weird and everything else Akia described them as. I promised myself that I wouldn’t immediately judge these bitches before I got to know them, though, so I erased the thought from my head.
“Hello! Can we start the stories already? I'm getting bored as hell. I could have stayed home and got dicked down if I was gon’ sit here looking crazy all night,” Peaches, my best friend and biggest headache, called out obnoxiously.
“We’ve only been here for an hour, Peaches. More people may show.”
“Ok, and? They'll get in where they fit in. I'm ready to liven this shit up!”
A few women laughed while others muttered their agreement. Since they were ready to get the show on the road, I instructed everyone to the bar area for appetizers and drinks—pouring myself some apple cider—before directing them to the living room.
Once everyone was settled, I quizzed, “So, who’s going first?”
The entire room went more silent that a whore in church before we all erupted in laughter. I assumed that I'd have to start things off since everyone was probably wary of each other. I should have made Akia’s ass go since I knew she didn’t give a fuck one way
or another, but she was too busy stuffing her damn face.
“Peaches, you can start since you were so anxious,” I stated just to fuck with her, and she snorted a laugh.
“Bitch, please. I ain’t telling these hoes my business. I might be fucking some of their niggas.”
“Ok!” twin sisters Ashley and Tiffany sang in unison with the church finger.
“Y’all, don’t start.”
“It was just a jokey joke,” Peaches replied, lying her ass off. “How ‘bout you start. Tell them about Anthony’s dog ass.”
“Anthony? Does he promote at the clubs? Got some pretty ass eyes?” some girl I'd never seen before asked.
“Yea, why?” I countered.
“My cousin fucks with him. That ain’t yo baby daddy, is it?” Her eyes shot to my seven months pregnant belly.
“Hell no, that ain’t her baby daddy, but if it was?” Peaches rebutted, sitting her drink down.
“Oh, shit. Hold on,” Akia added, licking the wing sauce from her fingers before she sat her plate down. “What’s really good?”
“Lord, Akia. I told you I didn’t want to fight tonight,” her cousin, Zoelle, griped while removing her earrings as I tried not to laugh.
“There isn’t going to be any fighting,” I assured her before turning to ole girl. I squinted to read her name tag. “Right, Kylie?”
“Right. It ain’t no beef on my end. I honestly don’t even like his ass, but she loves that nigga.”
“I would talk shit, but I've been there,” I admitted, gaining everyone’s attention. “I wasn’t even gon’ bring his ass up, but I guess y’all want to hear the story now, huh?”
“Yes!” they shouted in unison, and I sat back before exhaling.
“Aight, so, boom. Me and this nigga had been together for five fucking years...”
OceanofPDF.com

“
E
, what are you doing out here? I thought you left a while ago. You need a ride?”
My coworker’s voice caused me to glance over my shoulder with a fake smile before I scrambled from the curb, placing a hand to my ass that was numb from sitting there so long. The expression I caught on Kendra’s face as she watched me stand was sympathetic but mixed with a dab of
this bitch is dumb,
and it pissed me off more than I already was. She had every right to give me that look, though. If we were in opposite shoes, I’d do the same shit to her without a second thought.
“Nah, Kendra, I'm good. Ant is on his way. He got caught up in traffic,” I lied.
“Oh... alright, then. I guess I'll see you tomorrow.”
“I’m off tomorrow, thank God. I'll be back on Saturday.”
“I’ll hold it down until then. See ya.”
She gave a close-mouthed smile before locking the department store’s doors then proceeded to the parking lot. I wanted to chase after her and accept that ride so damn
bad because I was just ready to get home after working overtime, but then I'd have to admit that my boyfriend had been ignoring my calls for over an hour. Kendra probably knew I was lying my ass off anyway since it wasn’t the first time that Anthony left me waiting outside of my job like he wasn’t riding around in
my
shit.
He had his own car, but the Audi that I was able to purchase last year because of my good credit, was a much better look for his image. Anthony was a club promoter, which was where he spent most of his damn time. He dealt with two popular nightclubs in our city—handing out fliers in stores or posting them on social media. He also partied at least four damn nights a week and took unlimited pictures with multiple women that were too thirsty for my fucking liking. That was the catalyst for the majority of our arguments, but the nigga refused to go out and find another job. He kept promising that he’d look into something else but then would give an excuse each time I mentioned it.
I wasn’t understanding the hold up, especially since his pay wasn’t that much. He made just enough to buy clothes and the latest kicks to flex on social media. That was the kind of shit that garnered the most attention, so he used that as a means to attract women to the club. They had no damn clue that he was short on his car note and insurance half the time, so I had to come through for his ass. He paid no other bills in the house either, and if he randomly decided to do so; it was either the cable or a utility.
My checks as a department store manager and part-time call center representative were footing everything, and that shit was becoming tiresome. I wouldn’t even need a second job if Anthony pulled his damn weight. Unfortunately, I didn’t have much of a choice but to handle it since the apartment we shared was in my name because his credit was horrible. I even had to co-sign for his car that was, thankfully, almost paid off. He was already talking about copping a new one like mine, and I was hoping that he didn’t expect me to co-sign for that, too.
Just as I was about to call him again for the millionth time, I noticed my car speeding into the lot. My eyes squinted the closer he neared because, either I was tired enough to hallucinate, or someone was sitting in my passenger seat. The tint that he’d convinced me to add onto my windows was preventing me from being certain, however.
Anthony came to an abrupt stop in front of me then hopped out, not even giving an excuse for why he failed to answer my damn calls. He opened the back door and was about to climb in so that I could drive, but I threw up a hand to halt him. I could hear the exaggerative ass breath he blew out, that I couldn’t care less about, as I snatched my passenger door open.
“What the—I know you’re fucking lying!” I gawked.
“Hey, Ebonyyyy,” Anthony’s baby mother sang mockingly as I ignored her and shot daggers at my nigga.
“Ant, explain why Jalisa is in my damn car.”
“Man, don’t start with the bullshit, E. We haven’t been around each other for five seconds, and you’re ready.”
“I’m the one on bullshit? I've been out here for over an hour, and you pull up with another bitch in my car!”
“Hold up. I get you’re mad at Ant, but don’t call me out my name,” Jalisa snipped.
My head snapped back as I frowned while giving her a once over. She was reclined in my seat with her crusty ass foot propped onto my dash as if it belonged there. My eyes lowered to her coochie cutters that had pockets longer than the hem and large cuts along the sides. I could bet money that she wasn’t wearing panties. Her heavy ass breasts were covered in a bandeau top that was struggling to secure them in place, and I could only shake my head. If she liked that shit, then I loved it.
What I didn’t love was her fucking weave. That shit was giving ten-dollar pack from the beauty supply; the kind they didn’t place behind the counter since they weren’t pressed about someone stealing it. The shit was stiff and dead with unblended leave out, and I couldn’t understand why her friends allowed her to come outside like that.
Jalisa was quick to boast on social media in her messy posts, about how Anthony kept her pockets laced—with money his ass didn’t even have—but she never had her hair looking decent. Instead of going in on her and mentioning all of the above, I settled on a simple reply to her jumping in our business.
“Girl, fuck y—”
“E! Chill out, man,” Anthony pleaded, cutting me off. “I was on the way here, but she called saying her car broke down. I couldn’t leave her and my son on the side of the street.”
I chuckled then peered to the back seat. Jalisa’s eyes rolled knowingly as I waved a hand around with my brows hiked and mouth twisted to the side.
“I don’t see AJ in this car.”
“I dropped him to her mom’s spot,” he explained.
“And you should have dropped her there, too!”
Anthony groaned in exasperation before running a hand over his pretty boy features
that drove women out their damn minds—myself included. His neat brows dipped, and I bit my lip because he looked too damned good. I wasn’t supposed to be lusting over his dumb ass, but I couldn’t help it. Between his towering height and athletic build, caramel skin that was blemish free, hazel eyes, and beautiful smile; it was hard not to give Anthony whatever the fuck he wanted, whenever he requested that shit. The fact that his dick was good as fuck only made me give it to him that much faster.
“Bae, I had a long ass day. I ain’t trying to argue. You act like I always have her in your ride or something. It would have taken even longer if I went home to switch cars first,” he explained.
“You know what, Ant? I'm too tired for this shit, but I'm not driving or sitting next to her. Get in the back, Jalisa.”
“What?” She turned to Ant, who stood there with his mouth clamped shut. “I’m not getting in the back.”
“What the fuck makes her think she’s too special to ride in back, Ant? You still fucking her?”
“Ebony, you’re wilding now. You know damn well, we ain’t like that. Jalisa, just get in back, please,” he begged, and her eyes bucked.
“You’re serious, Anthony?”
“Yes, he’s fucking serious! Get in back or get out!” I screamed, causing the people nearby to gaze in our direction.
I hated fucking scenes and despised embarrassing myself even more, but Jalisa was taking me there. That bitch
always
knew the buttons to press in order to get me going. She figured just because she had a baby with Anthony that she was supposed to come before me and our relationship. Granted, his son did and I had not one problem with that, but Jalisa wasn’t shit and especially not to me.
I tried my best to remain cordial for AJ’s sake, but it pissed me the hell off that Anthony was good for ignoring the disrespectful bullshit she did or made it as though I was overreacting. He was the main cause of her acting entitled and as if her way superseded mine. His best bet was to check her soon before I lashed out.
Anthony knew that I wasn’t one for confrontation anymore; I liked to keep it cute. Jalisa was going to have me jumping out of character and on her ass one day, though. I could feel it in my spirit.
“Don’t even worry about it. I'll get in the back
this time
,” Jalisa spat, stepping out so
that we were eye level. “I need to get home and change for the club, so you’re lucky.”
“Oh, really?” I laughed as Anthony rounded the car and eased between us.
“Problem solved. Now, can y’all get in the car? I have to be at the club in an hour.”
“Whatever.”
Jalisa sucked her teeth before climbing in back as I slid into the passenger seat. I readjusted my chair then clicked on my seatbelt as Anthony pulled off. The second he was out of the parking lot, he sped down the street like a bat out of hell. I wanted to check his ass but refused to start an argument in front of Jalisa. She thrived off knowing that we were in a bad space. That was the reason I never posted our business on social media.
She thought I didn’t know she had a few of her homegirls following my page so that she could have access. If she felt the need to watch my shit and hurt her own feelings, then I wasn’t about to stop her simple ass.
Anthony was pulling in front of her place twenty minutes later as I scanned our surroundings. I didn’t live in the most upscale location, but Jalisa’s neighborhood was sketchy as fuck. I knew because I used to run through similar areas with my old crew in our late teens. It was summertime, too, so people were out in droves. Her apartment complex was surrounded with niggas that were staring my car down like they wanted to jack my ass.
I was pissed that I didn’t have my gun on me. My dad taught me the technique of shooting at eighteen and made sure I had a piece as soon as I hit twenty-one. Niggas were wilding too much to not stay protected.
“Thank you for helping me out, baby daddy. You still coming tomorrow morning, right?” Jalisa asked, gaining my attention as she opened the door.
“Yea, I got you.”
“Aight.”
She smiled his way then cut her eyes in my direction with a smirk before climbing out. I didn’t miss the fact that the bitch slammed my door kind of hard, but I let it roll off my shoulders. My face twisted as I watched her strut to the front door with half her ass cheeks hanging out. Jalisa was, truthfully, a very pretty girl and her body was nice, but she always did the most when it wasn’t even necessary. She was loud, obnoxious, partied with her girls more than she spent time with their son, and she was never in fucking clothing. However, what she ate didn’t make me shit, and my nigga clearly liked it at one point.
The thought had me glancing to Anthony, and as sure as my name was Ebony
Lassiter, his eyes were glued to her ass. I mushed the hell out of him, and he laughed before driving off.
“You think that shit is funny?”
“Here you go. I'm a man, Ebony. Any nigga that tells you they ain’t checking out no other bitch is lying. As long as I'm not touching her, what’s the problem?”
“The problem is that you have a child with her, for one. Two, I'm right here! That shit is disrespectful as hell. If I was watching a nigga like that—”
“I wouldn’t give a fuck. I know that nigga couldn’t have you, so look at him. Hell, he can look at you, too. That lets me know I have a nice piece on my arm.”
“Clearly, not nice enough if you can stare at another female dead in my face.”
“You’re insecure as hell, E. You know that?”
“Well, let me be even more insecure... where are you going with Jalisa tomorrow morning?”
“I told her that I'd take her to get her car fixed.”
“You what?” I burst into laughter as he shook his head, already knowing that shit was a big issue. “How the fuck can you get her car fixed when you can’t even pay a damn bill in the house? Inquiring minds would love to know.”
“I’m not paying for shit. Mal is gon’ hook her up for me.”
“Ain’t shit free, Ant.”
He shot me a brief side-eye before tugging at the rim of his hat. “True, but the most he’s gon’ charge me is like sixty dollars. You're complaining ‘cause I'm helping Jalisa out, but you’d complain if I was a deadbeat, too. Fuck you want me to do?”
“It’s not about helping her. It's the fact that anytime I ask you for something, you don’t have it or you’re bitching. Yet, all she has to do is hold out her dick grippers. Plus, you run every time she calls, and nine times out of ten, it’s not for AJ. Meanwhile, I can’t even get you to take out the fucking trash.”
“You’re making it like I don’t do shit for you.”
“You don’t!”
“Because when I do, it’s not enough for yo’ ass! You turn your lip up at anything I offer.”
“What the hell is forty dollars gon’ do, Ant?”
“See, that’s exactly my point! Jalisa doesn’t do that bullshit. She's happy with forty dollars or me looking out to get her car fixed for sixty. Your independent ass expects too much instead of appreciating what I can do.”
A rebuttal was sitting at the tip of my tongue, but it would’ve further proved his point, so I kept my mouth shut. Anthony had a way of making me feel as though my expectations were wrong. I didn’t want to come off ungrateful or emasculate him, but I didn’t want to become the bitch that was content with forty dollars and a half-ass car fix either.
He dubbed it being too
independent
, while I called it having no other choice. What female really wanted to pay all the bills and work more than they had time to relax? I knew I damn sure didn’t. I was also aware that I couldn’t trust Anthony to hold shit down yet. So, I worked my ass off and kept us above water because I loved him and wanted our relationship to last.
I was willing to wait until he was on his feet and could take care of the household properly. Evidently, that wasn’t good enough because between his constant complaints of what I wasn’t doing and the random bitches that hit my DMs to claim they were fucking him with no proof; I was beginning to feel as if I was in a lose, lose situation.
“I’m just gon’ take my car tonight,” Anthony stated as he pulled into our apartment complex and parked in the designated spot. “I’ll see you when I get in.”
“You’re not coming upstairs to change first?”
“Nah, I'll just wear this. I wasn’t outside that long.”
“Okay, Anthony.”
He was lying, but I didn’t call him on it. Anytime we got into an argument, he gave my car back or stayed out for a night or two at his homeboy’s spot. I guessed he called himself punishing me, and that was exactly what it felt like every single time. I was, unhealthily, attached to Anthony. Going more than a day without seeing him drove me crazy because I was left wondering what he was doing while not with me. I could even admit that I gave in most times and popped up wherever he was to make him come home. Whatever was necessary, I did that shit.
He hit the locks on his car then handed my keys over before walking away without so much as a goodbye hug or kiss. Instead of whining about it and forcing him to do something I knew he didn’t want to, I simply took my ass in the house. A part of me was tired of coddling a grown ass man just so that he could treat me like he was supposed to.
“Bitch! You didn’t get the message that I sent you?”
I groaned at the loud voice blaring through my cell as I rolled over, tossing an arm across my eyes while struggling to keep the phone against my ear. My head was pounding, courtesy of the bottle of wine I'd finished alone. It was difficult finding sleep while my relationship was possibly going through a rough patch, so after sending Anthony multiple messages that went ignored, I drank away my problems. I was definitely feeling that shit at the moment.
“No, Peaches. I was asleep,” I mumbled, causing my best friend to suck her teeth.
“E, it’s going on twelve in the afternoon. You need to get up. I'm taking your ass to buy the tightest, shortest, nastiest fucking dress you can find so that we can hit a club.”
“You know damn well that clubbing isn’t my thing anymore.”
“I know... working your ass off just to spend your last on a nigga is,” she shot, knocking the drunkenness right out of me. “I love you, E, so I'm not about to keep letting you play yourself like this. I usually stay in my lane, but Anthony is making you look dumb as hell. Check the message.”
She had my attention with that speech, so I sat up and placed her on speaker before tapping my messages icon. I noticed I had six from Anthony—which was out of the norm—but I bypassed those to see what had Peaches coming at me crazy. I was used to her crass mouth, but she was usually more tactful when it came to me.
The instant that I clicked on the link, my heart stopped because it directed me to Jalisa’s social media page. A wave of heat coursed through my body as I stared at the picture of her lying on Anthony’s chest. They were on her couch, and it didn’t take a rocket scientist to see neither of them were wearing a shirt. The shit that really had me heated was her caption that read,
what’s understood doesn’t have to be explained
.
Anthony’s face wasn’t visible, but anyone that knew him could easily tell it was his ass because of the tattoo along his neck of his late mother’s name. My stomach knotted as I read the comments from Jalisa’s friends, gassing the situation up and congratulating her on
getting her man back. A few were sending slick disses in my direction, and it was taking everything in me to not let my fingers type the thoughts circulating in my head.
“I didn’t comment ‘cause I know you’re on your chill shit, but just say the word and I'll flame every last one of those bum bitches,” Peaches spat, getting hype.
“Nope, it’s whatever. I'm not letting her know that she’s getting to me.”
“Well, what are you going to do about Ant? This isn’t the first time that he’s disrespected you and publicly. You ain’t tired yet? This shit has been going on for too damn long. I told you from day one that he wasn’t good for shit but a fuck.”
My eyes rolled, but I didn’t respond because my girl was right. The night I met Anthony in the club, Peaches let me know off bat that I was supposed to get the dick and move around. We had just graduated and were celebrating by finding the finest niggas we could bust it open for, but Anthony put it on me so good that I was willing to give up my freedom to play Suzy homemaker.
Unbeknownst to me, he was dealing with Jalisa at that time. I didn’t find out about her until word began spreading that Anthony had a newborn baby. He denied it but told the truth after a few months. He promised that they weren’t together anymore, and claimed he was scared I wouldn’t have dealt with him had I known about her being pregnant with AJ when we met.
I wasn’t that kind of person to judge from his past, so I forgave him and tried to accept his son and Jalisa. That bitch wanted smoke, though, because she felt I took her man.
Things only got worse once Anthony and I moved in together a year later. It had been five years, and Jalisa still wouldn’t quit. She went out of her way to ruin my day any chance that she got, and I could admit the bitch had been hitting the mark over the past few months.
“As my best friend, you’re the last person I need this judgmental shit from, Peaches,” I griped while pulling up the messages from Anthony.
“As your best friend, I have to let you know when you’re going out bad, E. I'm getting second hand embarrassment from this shit, so I know you’re humiliated.”
“I am, but we don’t even know the full story.”
“Girl, please. You're already lying to yourself before you even give him the chance to do it. Boss the hell up and do that nigga how he does you. If you want to stay with that clown while he cheats, then cool, but at least cheat back!”
“Do you hear yourself, right now?”
“Yes, I do. The question is, do
you
hear me?”
I did, but I was too busy reading over Anthony’s excuses.
MY LOVE:
Bae
Jalisa is on some dumb shit
She posted me but I swear it ain’t how it looks
You know I wouldn’t lay up knowing she always does some petty bullshit
Omw home bae
It sounded plausible that Jalisa was on some sneak shit while he was sleeping, but I was also pissed because he’d gone to her house instead of bringing his ass home. On top of that, he was basically saying fuck my feelings. I'd just expressed to him that I wasn’t cool with the shit either of them was doing, and he was proving that he didn’t give a damn by staying the night there.
“Ebony! Are you ignoring me, hoe?”
“I’m the hoe?” I joked, and she cackled before sucking her teeth.
“I’m not a whore. I just know what I want and don’t want from these fuck niggas. I want dick, and I don’t want a relationship. I’m not ready to settle down, so I make sure that’s known... unlike your nigga.”
“Peaches.”
“Aight, I'm done. I can tell you’re getting in your feelings about this. We really are going out tonight, though. I'll be there in a couple hours to pick you up, so we can do a full day of pampering. Don't let Ant come there and whisper lies in your ear, and don’t give him the pussy! Stand your ground. Make that nigga work for your ass for once, ‘cause he damn sure ain’t working, otherwise.”
“Get off my line, Peaches.”
She burst into laughter before threatening to fuck me up if I wasn’t ready then ended the call. As much as I wanted to decline going out, there was a small side of me that was anxious to get out and breathe. I was lowkey also mulling over the whole
cheat back
scenario.
I'd never been that girl to cheat or even attempt to because I didn’t want to deal with
that karma. However, my logic wasn’t working, and niggas never seemed to understand the hurt they caused until it was done to their ass.
OceanofPDF.com

“
T
his is why I don’t be fucking with you like that, Jalisa! You're always on some dumb shit, man!”
“So, what?” She reached for her phone, but I spun while shoving her ass back to her side of the car. “Give my phone, Ant!”
“After I delete this messy ass post. You live for this shit, and it’s sad. You can’t go a day without showing off for this news feed to bitches that’s gon’ talk about yo ass regardless.”
“Whatever, nigga! You’re not the one to talk. Don't be mad at me ‘cause you were laid up in my crib instead of home with your bitch! I’m not in a relationship, nor do I owe anyone a damn thing.”
“I swear, I'm not fucking with you anymore. I put that on AJ.”
“Stop putting shit on my son, Anthony! That's probably why he had to get that cast on his leg a few months ago, with your lying ass. Had CPS in my house ‘cause you want to
keep playing with God.”
“Stupid as hell, yo.”
I climbed out my car, slamming the door behind me before pocketing Jalisa’s phone. I couldn’t risk her dumb ass sneaking another picture of me while we were out. Had my homeboy not told me about the shit since his girlfriend caught it, I wouldn’t have known a fucking thing. I had Jalisa blocked from all my social media because she was messy as hell. It was nothing for her to start arguments with random females if she felt they were flirting or that I was possibly fucking around with them. The bitch was delusional.
I knew that and
still
ended up with my dick in her, though. Shit, my baby mother was bad as hell. She didn’t have money like my girl, but she made whatever she had work for her, as far as dressing and looking good. That was one of the main things I loved about her—Jalisa made a nigga’s dick stand every time I saw her ass.
Ebony wasn’t slacking, but she was basic and never tried to look nice for a nigga. She didn’t even have to try hard since she was naturally beautiful, but I wanted my bitch sexy sometimes. She hadn’t given me that vibe since I met her five years ago at the club.
She was a party girl back then; she’d just graduated and was hanging with her hoe ass friends, living her best life. Of course, I had her tone a lot of that shit down once I got with her. I couldn’t have mine in the streets making me look bad, but she switched up everything. Our relationship was boring as fuck after the first couple years.
She wasn’t even spontaneous with the sex anymore. Ebony used to want that shit all day, every day. I could barely pull my dick out to piss without her hopping on it. Somewhere along the line, she started getting lazy. I had to ask for the pussy, and she also went prude on me and refused to fuck in random places. We were at the point where I was practically begging to touch my own girl.
That was exactly how I ended up getting topped off in her car yesterday by my baby mother. Jalisa wanted to thank me properly for the help, so we dropped AJ to her momma’s house then parked in a nearby lot. It was wrong as hell, but Ebony needed to understand that whatever she wouldn’t do, I had other bitches that were dying to. Shit, Jalisa was at the bottom of the list of hoes I smashed.
The rare instances we fucked were because I was either drunk off my ass or big pissed with Ebony. I could easily fuck Jalisa anytime I wanted, but the headache afterwards wasn’t worth it. Last night only happened because we ended up at the same club. I was wasted as hell, so I let her drive us instead of her homegirl having to drop her off. My intentions were to just crash on the couch until I was good. If I knew I'd wake up with her
mounting my dick, I probably would have taken my ass home.
“Yo, Mal. How much longer this shit gon’ take, bruh?” I asked, strolling into the garage of the auto repair shop.
“Give me ‘bout five more minutes, and I'm done. What, you trying to get home to wifey before she tosses your shit out?”
He stuck his head around the hood of the car with an amused smile on his face. He knew just as well as I did that Ebony wasn’t about to put my ass out. She'd yell and might even make some threats, but she wasn’t going to leave. We'd been fucking around so long that I was the only thing she knew. She’d rather be comfortable dealing with my bullshit than to start over.
That was included with that fact that she loved my dirty boxers. Honestly, I fucked up from time to time, but I loved Ebony, too. I just hated that she stayed on my back about shit and had grown too stagnant as far as making sure I was pleased in the relationship. She figured keeping the bills paid was enough, but I needed more. Shit, niggas liked attention and affection just as much as females.
“Nigga, please. You know me better than that.” I waved Jamal off with a scoff.
“I do, so I know you’re about to go home and play damage control. You better hope that was the only picture Jalisa took of your ass. She's crazy enough to post you every day of the week, if she can.”
My brows dipped before I snatched her phone from my pocket, keying in her code to tap the camera icon. Jamal was right; she had five other pictures of me while I slept. Slick shit like that was the reason I hardly ever stayed with another female or took heavy precautions if I happened to on occasions.
I usually always laid on my stomach, so they wouldn’t snap a dick picture or pull some bullshit like Jalisa. Then, I kept my head cradled in my arm to keep my face and neck tattoo hidden. If I was paranoid enough, I'd sleep with the pillow or cover over my face, damn near suffocating to keep from getting caught up. I wasn’t above a damn thing.
“Did she have more in there?” Mal asked with a smirk as he closed the hood to Jalisa’s old ass Camry with the rusted paint.
“Hell, yea.”
“What did I tell you? I know how that shit goes. That's why I had to cool it after Briya left my ass. I realized none of those bitches were worth the headache or losing my girl. You better learn from my mistakes, bro.”
“I’m gucci,” I assured him while glancing toward the door that led from the front of the shop to the garage.
His older brother, Shy, stepped out, and that was my cue to bounce. I didn’t have an issue with the nigga, but he seemed to have bad blood with me about something I wasn’t aware of. Anytime I spoke, he was either short or ignored me on some disrespectful shit. That was my boy’s brother, so I chose not to check his ass, but he was getting too comfortable with trying to son me.
“Wassup, Shy,” Mal greeted, slapping hands with him. “Pops had you come here to help out?”
“You already know it, or I wouldn’t be in this muthafucka. I see why you’re behind, though,” he stated, frowning at Jalisa’s ride. “You’re in here helping out the needy. I keep telling you, those side jobs don’t come before paying customers.”
“This was just some quick shit for Ant’s baby mother. It didn’t even take an hour.”
“What’s good, Shy?” I spoke against my better judgment.
He cut his eyes in my direction then chucked his chin before heading to the other side of the garage without another word. I shook my head as Jamal chuckled under his breath.
“What’s up with your brother?”
“Nothing. He just likes who he likes... and doesn’t like who he doesn’t.” Jamal shrugged. “Shy has always been like that. If he ain’t feeling your vibe, then he doesn’t have any kick it for you. I can’t do nothing about it either.”
“Yea, aight,” I muttered as Jalisa pranced her ass into the garage.
“Is my car ready? My momma is probably tripping about having AJ. She was ‘pose to go washing this morning.”
“It’s done, shorty.”
Jamal tossed me the keys as Jalisa beamed. I held them out for her then snatched my hand back, making her frown.
“If I hear about you posting me again, I ain’t helping your ass the next time you’re fucked up out here.”
“Boy, please. Those threats only move your bitch. Give my damn keys.” She snatched them out my hand then smiled across the room. I already knew that was the reason she brought her thirsty ass into the garage. “Hey, Shy!”
“Wassup, Jalisa.”
“Get in your fucking car,” I gritted, shoving the keys in her hand before pushing her toward the driver’s door.
She laughed while climbing inside, probably thinking she’d made me jealous. It wasn’t that; I just knew Shy spoke to her because he wanted to get under my skin. The shit annoyed me but not enough for me to make a big deal about it. If Ebony tried that flirting bullshit in my face, that would have been a different story.
I stood at my car and made sure that Jalisa was gone before I hopped in my own ride en route to the crib. Ebony still hadn’t hit me back, and that wasn’t like her. I was certain her ass was awake since it was after twelve. She was up with the sun most days, unless she cracked open a bottle of wine. That shit would have her out for a while.
I figured that was the case, especially since I'd left with us on bad terms last night. She mentioned ample times that she couldn’t sleep without me. That was one of the main reasons I stayed out whenever we got into an argument; she’d miss me so much that the fight wouldn’t matter because she’d just want me home. It worked like a fucking charm every time. It made me feel good, too, knowing that she was still that deeply in love with a nigga. That was the only reassurance I seemed to get since she didn’t show it any other way.
Her car was still in the same spot—letting me know she was home—so I parked my ride next to hers then headed inside. I was surprised when I heard music playing from the bedroom. It wasn’t
in my feelings
music either, which had my eyes narrowing skeptically as I stepped into the doorway.
She either didn’t notice me or was ignoring my presence as she sat at her vanity, pulling her hair into a bun. Ebony had that long, wet and wavy type shit that bitches gladly paid for. Jalisa had asked me to buy her some once, but I straight up told her
hell nah
as soon as I saw the price for those high as bundles. Meanwhile, my girl was growing the same hair out of her scalp but wanted to walk around with a childish ass ponytail. I wasn’t against it while she worked, but on a regular day or out with me, she could show it off a little bit.
I went over to the dresser and hit pause on her phone, halting Jhene Aiko singing about being back on her bullshit. Ebony glanced to me over her shoulder with an expression I couldn’t read before she turned to the mirror again.
“So, I take it that you’re mad with me,” I assumed, leaning against the dresser.
“Mad for what?”
“The shit Jalisa pulled. I know you saw it because you didn’t reply to my texts.”
“I did, and I'm not tripping about it. You claimed it was nothing, so it’s cool.”
I snorted a laugh. “E, I know you aren’t letting it go that easy. If you got something to say, just say that shit.”
“I’m mean, you shouldn’t have been there in the first damn place, but it is what it is.”
“I only went there because it was late as hell by the time I left the club, and I had to take her car to the shop this morning. It would have been pointless to come home for a few hours just to leave out again. Plus, I was drunk as hell.”
“I hear you, Ant. I’m about to go shopping with Peaches, though. We're going out tonight,” she enlightened as she stood, dismissing the conversation about me and Jalisa. “I’m not sure what time I'll be home.”
“Don’t you work tomorrow?”
“Yep, both jobs. I'll make it on time. I might just stay with Peaches and head to work from there.”
My head whipped back so fast; a nigga almost caught whiplash. She had lost her muthafuckin’ mind. Ebony never stayed out, even if her and a few friends were having their ladies’ night bullshit. My first instinct was to put a stop to her whole damn night, but then I'd have to hear her bitching while she walked around the house with an attitude. If it took letting her club one night to get me off the hook, then I was willing to let her slide.
“Aight, Ebony. Do you, but don’t let yo hoe ass friend get you fucked up. I have eyes and ears everywhere out here.”
“First of all, don’t talk about my damn friend. She's better than the leeching ass ones you have. Secondly, can’t nobody make me do a damn thing that I don’t want to do.”
“That’s what your mouth says. What club are y’all going to?”
“She didn’t tell me, but I'm sure it’ll be whichever one you aren’t working tonight. You don’t have to worry about me in your space.”
“You know I don’t care ‘bout that shit,” I lied.
The few chicks I dealt with usually slid through the club to catch some time with me. The last thing I needed was Ebony popping up to see some bitch in my face. That was the plus side of her ass preferring to stay in the crib.
“Mhm. She’s about to pull up, so I have to go,” she replied, grabbing her phone, purse, and keys. “I’ll call you before I go out and after we get in.”
“Bet. I don’t get a kiss or nothing?”
I could see the hesitant stare she gave before she sighed, stepping into my outstretched arms. I palmed her ass then leaned to suck on her bottom lip before slipping my tongue in her mouth. My dick started to brick up because we hadn’t shown affection to each other in a cool minute. She threw her arms around my neck, and we stood there kissing for a while until her phone chimed.
She pulled away and wiped her gloss from my lips before saying, “That’s probably Peaches, telling me to bring my ass.”
“Aight. Remember what I said, Ebony.”
“I’m not the one that needs a reminder,” she shot.
Her eyes rolled before she walked out the room, and the front closed moments later. I knew her being unbothered about that picture was too fucking good to be true, but I didn’t have to deal with that shit at the moment.
My plan was to shit, shower, and get some sleep before I had to hit the club later, but someone began blowing up my line before a nigga could even get comfortable. I started to ignore it until I realized who the unsaved number belonged to, making me smile widely as fuck. I hadn’t heard from her in almost a year since she started feeling guilty about fucking with me. I guessed she had a change of heart.
“Who dis?” I answered, knowing damn well I hadn’t forgotten her ass.
“Really, nigga? You deleted my number?”
“Oh, what’s up, stranger? I hadn’t heard from you, so I figured I'd make space for people that really fucked with me.”
She smacked her lips. “Typical Ant... always with the mind games and bullshit.”
“But you’re calling me, though. What you need?”
“You know what I need,” she answered. The line grew quiet before she quizzed, “Can I see you? Like, now.”
“Where you want me to come?”
“I have to come to you.”
I blew out a breath as I mulled over that shit. Jalisa had me in enough deep water, so I needed to tread lightly.
“I don’t know, girl. You’re trying to get me caught up. You know I live with my old
lady.”
“You act like I haven’t been there before. Isn't she at work or something?”
“Nah, she ain’t.”
“Well, I guess I'll get up with you some other time.”
“Hold up!” I shouted before she could end the call. “Slide through in like thirty minutes, but ain’t no chilling. You gotta get this dick and be out.”
“Cool with me. Send the address, ‘cause I forgot it. Bye.”
The three beeps sounded before I could even pull the shit away from my ear. I stared at the phone for a minute, debating if I should hit ole girl and tell her ass not to come. She was the only female I had ever brought to our crib because, on some real shit, she had my nose wide open for the few months we crept around. I almost left Ebony for her, but she wasn’t trying to start another relationship since she’d just gotten out of one.
I was pissed about her brushing the idea of us off, so I didn’t care when she started distancing herself. It was crazy that the second she came calling, I was willing to risk it all again like Ebony wasn’t holding shit down for us. I had to slow my roll like Jamal told me, and I would... right after I hit my old side piece one more time.
OceanofPDF.com

A GHETTO TALE FROM EBONY
Antoinette Sherell
OceanofPDF.com

“
I
can’t believe I let you talk me into this dress, Peaches.”
“Me either, but damn! You look good as hell, best friend.” She smiled at me through her floor-length mirror.
I couldn’t front on that shit if I wanted to; Peaches had hooked me up and found the perfect dress to show the hell out with. Ironically enough, I had talked shit about Jalisa’s shorts with the cuts along the side, but my dress was made the same from top to bottom... which meant a bitch wasn’t wearing panties nor a bra since it was a halter dress. The material clung to my body like a second skin, enhancing my slim waist but slightly wider hips. If someone stared closely enough, they’d definitely spot my nipple piercings through the thin fabric.
I spun on my spiked heels, smirking at the way my ass was sitting just right. Unfortunately, I doubted I could dance since my dress ended just below the cuff of my ass cheeks. I had to make a mental note to not get too wasted, or I wouldn’t give a damn about giving the club a peep show.
Peaches came behind me and gave my hair a few tight squeezes to deepen my waves. I’d taken the time to moisturize it properly and spritzed it with water before applying some holding gel. I added a side part then let my girl work a natural beat onto my face, so I was giving off a sultry look that balanced my hot in the ass dress.
“So, one of my friends will be there tonight, and he said that we could sit in his section,” Peaches randomly informed me. “He offered to pay for everything, too.”
I narrowed my eyes at her through the mirror as she adjusted the leather shorts jumper she wore. A sleeveless cropped top that stopped just below her melon breasts was underneath, while some cute ass chain-linked, thigh high boots covered her meaty thighs. The pin curls that she sported in her purple hair made her round face and soft features pop.
Peaches was on the thicker side, but she was one of the most fly bitches I knew. She got a lot of hate because girls weren’t feeling the fact that their niggas wanted her, but I couldn’t blame them. Peaches’ beauty, style, and personality stole the show without effort wherever she went. She was an
it
girl, for sure.
“Which friend, Peaches?” I quizzed, making her grin.
“Renny.”
“Girl, I knew it! He’s the only one that doesn’t mind blowing money on a section every damn weekend. I thought you cut him off.”
“I did, but he offered to buy me a bulk order of bundles to sell. I told you I was about to start me a little side business. What do bitches love more than hair?”
“Dick.”
“Damn, you’re right. Maybe I should see if he can add an order of dildos.”
“And the toys for clit stimulation, too. I don’t like shoving shit up my pussy but the real deal.”
“Bitch, whatever!”
She waved me off with a laugh before applying a purple coat of lipstick to her full lips. Once she was done with that, we grabbed our clutches—making sure we had money, identification, and our phones—then headed out to her car. I realized her ass had offered to pick me up because she wanted to ensure I didn’t leave the club without her. That was her best bet because I damn sure would’ve bounced the minute I wasn’t feeling the mood anymore.
We pulled up to the club about a half hour later, and the parking lot was packed. It took her ten minutes just to find a spot that, luckily, someone was backing out of.
“Let me text Renny now, because we will not be waiting in that line,” Peaches griped, killing then engine before we climbed out. “What time do you work in the morning?”
“Nine. I bought something to wear while we were out, though.”
“Smart. You can just take my car.”
“You must plan to get tore the hell up.” I laughed as she shot me a smirk.
“You already know. Hopefully, you’ll be faded, too, so you won’t hear Renny blowing my back out.”
“Oh, gosh. I might have Ant pick me up, on second thought.”
“No, the hell you aren’t! Don't call him, don’t text him, don’t even think about that nigga tonight. I'm not playing, Ebony. Where is your phone?”
“In my clutch.”
“Give it here,” she ordered, holding out her hand as I stared at her with my face twisted up.
“Bitch, I am not giving you my damn phone.”
“That's okay. Watch what I do if I even think you’re hitting up Ant.”
She grinned snidely as I followed her past the line and to the entrance. I could hear people muttering and talking shit about us, but we paid them no mind. We didn’t even have to explain to security that we were there with someone because Renny strolled out the door as soon as we got there.
“They’re with me,” he alerted the guard, slapping hands with him to exchange money on the sly before waving us along. “How y’all doing tonight?”
“We’re good,” I answered, and he smiled then glared to Peaches.
“You can’t speak?”
“Hey, Renny. You got bottles already?”
“Damn! That’s all you care about?”
“No, but if I have to be under your ass all night instead of partying freely with my girl, then you can at least make it worth my while.”
“You see this shit, E?” he asked, pointing to her as I laughed.
“Don’t act like you don’t know how she is.”
“True that. She's still my baby, though.”
He gripped her wrist and pulled her forward so that she was walking in front of him. I couldn’t help but smile as he smacked her ass then leaned his tall frame downward so that he could wrap an arm around her neck from behind. Peaches nudged him with her elbow, but he ignored it and whispered something in her ear instead of backing away.
I knew she was annoyed since she wasn’t with public displays of affection, but I loved it. Renny was well known and bitches stayed on his dick. He wanted Peaches bad as hell, though, and didn’t mind showing that shit. I couldn’t even get the nigga I was with for years to do that while we were out, especially in a very public setting like the mall or the rare times I accompanied him to the club. It bothered the hell out of me, but Anthony just wasn’t into all that.
Because Renny was aware that Peaches would slide off with the quickness if she didn’t get her way; he ordered us a personal bottle as soon as we got to his section. My stomach was growling since we’d been running around the entire day without eating, but I refrained from asking for food. It was too many niggas chilling in his section at the moment. I was certain once I had a nice buzz, I wouldn’t care who the hell I smashed some wings and fries in front of, though.
“Girl, I'm hungry,” Peaches whispered in my ear, and I burst into laughter.
“I was just thinking the same thing, but I didn’t want to eat over here.”
“Me either. Let's go to the bar, then we can head back this way after we’re done.”
“That’s cool with me.”
After she told Renny where we were going and swore to bring her ass back, we found a spot at the bar that wasn’t too crowded. I waved for the bartender, and she gave a quick glance in my direction before turning her attention back to the drink she was mixing.
“She saw you. It's just busy,” Peaches assured before I could get pissed off.
“I don’t get why people work customer service jobs just to be mad while doing it.”
“Because it’s money. Shit, I hate my job, and those stuck-up ass customers. You do, too.”
“But we still throw on a smile and do our job.”
“While knowing we want to walk out that muthafucka every day.”
“You ain’t lying,” I replied with a giggle before gazing to the bartender again.
I caught her staring in my face before she rolled her eyes then moved down to the other end of the bar. My eyes bugged as I spun to Peaches, who was looking just as shocked.
“Ok, my bad. That bitch is definitely ignoring you.”
“This is why I don’t come out anymore. Bitches make you want to beat their ass!”
“Not your pretty ass, talking about fighting somebody. That ain’t ladylike, shorty,” I heard from the side of us.
My face instinctively frowned as I cut my eyes that way, fully prepared to curse a nigga out. However, the alluring smile I was blessed with that was accompanied with gleaming grillz and surrounded by the smoothest, roasted pecan complexion I'd ever seen, had my words caught in my throat. He ran and hand over the waves of his fresh cut then allowed his eyes to travel from my breasts down to my manicured toes before refocusing on my face.
“What got you so pissed that you’re willing to fuck up that sexy ass dress? I'm digging this chocolate on chocolate,” he complimented, his hands rubbing together as he lustfully ogled the coffee-colored dress that blended perfectly with my complexion. “Who do I need to handle to make sure you stay looking just like this all night?”
“The bartender,” Peaches eagerly answered over my shoulder as I continued to stare. His fine ass had me stuck as hell. “We were trying to order chicken and fries, but she won’t serve us, for some reason.”
“Which one?”
“The red head.”
He nodded before cupping his mouth then hollered out, “Yo, Shaquanda!”
“Shaquanda? Oh, that’s why she’s really mad. She gotta walk around with that fucked up ass name,” Peaches jabbed, making him laugh as he shook his head.
I was still mute while discreetly checking him out from the corner of my eye since I'd turned toward the bar. He inched closer to us, making it harder for me to play it cool. I could faintly smell his cologne that was the perfect mixture of loud yet subtle—the kind of scent I wouldn’t mind waking up to embedded in my sheets.
He was clad in all black with a watch donning his wrist and a few gold chains around his tatted neck, hanging down his broad chest. His body reminded me of a linebacker—solid and sturdy but not overly large. I was usually into skinnier men, so I was
surprised that he’d gained my attention so easily.
Thankfully, the Shaquanda hoe pranced her ass over, and I was able to take my attention off the mystery man that decided to interrupt us. She leaned over the counter, pressing her breasts together between her arms to enhance them as she smiled widely in his face.
“What you need, Shy?”
“My friends here were trying to order some food, but I heard you were making shit hard for ‘em. What's up with that?”
“What?” She turned her lip up before replying, “It’s a bar full of people. I was gon’ get to them.”
“Yet, you ran your funny looking ass down here the minute he called,” Peaches snipped.
“I know you aren’t calling somebody funny looking. You need to be on the dance floor burning calories instead of ordering food.”
“How ‘bout I burn ‘em whooping your ass instead!”
Peaches climbed onto the stool, attempting to snatch the girl across the damn bar top. Ole boy caught her, though, wrapping an arm around her waist in the nick of time as she fought against his hold. He easily lifted her then placed her onto her feet.
“What the fuck, lil’ Scrappy? You gotta chill out. It ain’t even that deep,” he stressed.
“Yes, it is deep... deeper than that wide ass part she got in her closure. Whoever did that, fucked her hair up! Gave that hoe the Red Sea edition.”
“Aye, be easy,” he urged, stifling his laugh. “I can see that I need to get y’all from over here. How ‘bout I order, pay, and bring the food personally? Where will y’all be?”
“We wanted to sit at the bar, but I guess we’ll be in that section over there.” She pointed, and he nodded with a grin.
“With Renny? Bet. That's where I'm at, too. I'll be there soon.”
“And don’t let her touch our shit,” I stressed, finally regaining my voice. “She might do something to it.”
“I got you, shorty. Just go sit and look pretty for me ‘til I get there.”
“I have a boyfriend,” I blurted.
“Bitch! No, the fuck you just didn’t!” Peaches threw her arms in the air before glaring
at me.
“What? I just don’t want him to think I’m about to pay in pussy for this food.”
“You’re making it more than what it is,” he rebutted with a panty wetting, gold-filled smirk. His tongue swiped across his lips as I bit mine. “Did I come over with the intentions of putting my bid in? Hell, yea. With the way that dress is fitting your pretty ass, I'm sure you know exactly what kind of time I’m on. I ain’t gon’ sweat you if you’re not interested, though. I’m just trying to help you enjoy your night. Can I do that?”
“You sure can,
however
you want to,” Peaches answered before grabbing my hand. “She’ll be waiting.”
She dragged me away before either of us could say another word. I could tell she was sick of my shit, but I wasn’t about to flirt with some random nigga simply because I was somewhat upset with Anthony. That was more her speed—kicking niggas to the curb for even the smallest infraction. I couldn’t do that because I was in a committed relationship. It wasn’t easy to just toss that away.
It was bad enough that Mr. Grillz had my pussy slick in arousal. I wasn’t even sure if I could sit down because I was afraid that I might leave a stain on my damn dress. It had been too long since someone outside of Anthony caused me to lust over them. I needed his ass to keep some distance from me.
“You know I want to beat your ass, right?” Peaches threatened the instant we plopped onto the leather sectional.
“It wasn’t like I was lying. I do have a boyfriend, so I shouldn’t be entertaining him.”
She blew out a breath of frustration. “Ebony, I'm not trying to be mean, but wake the hell up. It's time you start looking at other options. At least, testing the water. Anthony is getting more reckless each time because you keep letting it slide. If you don’t put your foot down or leave, it’s not going to get better.”
“My relationship isn’t as bad as you’re making it seem.”
“You’re right because it’s worse. Not only does he
supposedly
cheat,” she started, using air quotes as my eyes rolled. “But he also drives around in your car the majority of the time, he doesn’t pay any bills, and he has the baby mother from hell. I'd respect Anthony and your relationship more if he was trying, but he isn’t. You're so fucking smart and strong, but that nigga makes you dumb as hell, and I don’t get it.”
“It’s because you’ve never been in love.”
“If this is how that shit has women acting, then I doubt I ever will. Ain't that much love
in the world, and you know better, E. I remember we used to clown bitches that put up with the mess you’re dealing with. I guess people really shouldn’t speak on shit they haven’t been through.”
“Maybe, you should take that advice, right now,” I shot, pulling out my phone to end the conversation.
She scoffed then got up to grab the bottle Renny bought us while I started checking my notifications. I glanced to her after a few seconds, nibbling my bottom lip because I knew I was dead ass wrong for being a bitch towards her. She wasn’t telling any lies, and one thing about my best friend; there wasn’t a time she steered me wrong, and she was always down to ride.
Peaches wanted the best for me, even in the moments that I didn’t. It was just hard hearing the truth sometimes, but that didn’t stop her from giving it to me straight with no chaser. Besides, it wasn’t as if I didn’t see it... I just didn’t
want
to see it. I had put in so much time with Anthony that I couldn’t imagine us calling it quits. I damn sure didn’t want to give up just for another bitch to stroll in and get everything I'd put in so much effort for.
“Here, you moody bitch.” Peaches shoved a drink in my face, causing me to peer up. “Take it. I don’t give a damn if you’re mad.”
“I’m not even about to argue with your ass.”
“Good. My bad if I crossed the line, but you know—”
“I do,” I interrupted with a shake of my head. “It’s all good. I'm sorry for acting like a bitch.”
“As you should be. Now, finish that drink, and come dance with me.”
Just like that, we were back like we never left. Our strong personalities caused us to argue often, but it was all love.
I polished off the drink she poured me then refilled my cup before moving to an open space so that we weren’t crowded by niggas. Even so, their eyes were glued to us as soon as we started moving. More so, Peaches, because she was twerking her huge ass. I was itching to do the same but had to keep it cute since I was worried about my dress riding up.
We were dancing for a good half hour and had poured two more cups before Mr. Grillz from the bar appeared out of thin air. He scanned the section until our eyes locked, and he summoned me with a toss of his head. I had almost forgotten about his ass since I was having such a good time.
“Yes!” Peaches exclaimed as we headed for the table where he sat our food. “This
liquor is starting to kick in.”
“Yea, I feel mine, too.”
I shot Mr. Grillz a curt smile before swiping the platter from the table then sat down with Peaches copping a spot next to me. I started digging in but gazed up a few seconds later as he sauntered in front of me, placing his hands onto my knees before he bent down.
“I think you forgot something, shorty.”
I glanced down to my plate. “No, I think
you
forgot something... my ranch, but I'm too hungry to complain.”
“Stop being a smart ass, and thank me.”
“Fine. Thank you...”
“Shy,” he introduced, and I shook his hand as he grinned. “You ain’t gon’ tell me yours?”
“Mango.”
He burst into laughter, making my thighs clench. That sexy, deep rumble of amusement shot straight between my legs.
“Y’all are funny. Peaches and Mango?”
“Don’t put me in it. My nickname really is that,” Peaches replied with a mouthful of food, and I nudged her side.
“You don’t want to give out your government. I can respect that.” He leaned in closer before whispering, “And I’m sure that pussy is worth gold, but I already promised to not make you repay me with that. So, I expect a dance from your fine ass before you slip out of here. Aight,
Mango
?”
I was sure I looked dumb as hell—my body frozen and mouth gaped in mid-bite of my chicken from his brash ass mouth. He didn’t move, and his head gave a slight tilt as if he were waiting for a response.
I nodded. “Okay.”
That must have been good enough for him because he stood and walked off toward Renny. I watched as they slapped hands and spoke for a while before he peered in my direction, and Renny grinned. I quickly turned away since it was obvious that he’d mentioned me.
“You ever seen him around Renny before?” I asked Peaches, and she shook her
head.
“Nope.”
“They seem to know each other well. You think they’re into the same shit?”
She gave him a brief examination before admitting, “I can see it. Why? Let me find out you’re thinking about giving him some play after all.”
“Hell, no. I was just curious.”
“Mhm.” She pursed her lips before stuffing a fry into her mouth.
I couldn’t tell her that Shy had me contemplating entertaining his ass because then she’d force him on me in her typical, unsubtle manner. I was positive that he and I wouldn’t pass flirting and possibly one dance, so it wasn’t worth enlightening her of the intense jolts my clit had every time he neared.
Once we were done eating, we grabbed another drink then continued to turn up. I had to admit that I hadn’t felt so unwound in a while. The majority of my time was spent between working and Anthony, so I hardly got out with my girls anymore. I had to start making time for that again like we used to. Peaches was really the only one I kept in touch with since we were joined at the hip before I allowed my relationship to take precedence over everything.
“Aye, take these muthafuckin’ shots!” Renny shouted, swaggering over with four cups in his hands. Shy was with him and holding two cups of dark liquor in each hand as well, making me frown. “Y’all ain’t drunk enough.”
“I think I'm at my limit,” I lied, and Renny grinned.
“You’re friends with Peaches, so I know better than to believe that. Nice try, though. Shy got two for you.”
I glanced to Shy before releasing an exaggerative huff, taking the shots from his hand as he simpered. He held out his cup to tap against mine, and I did so before tossing it back. My face scrunched as the liquor burned my throat on the way down. I quickly drank the second then stuck out my tongue before sucking in a deep breath.
Shy was smoother with his—staring me in the eyes as he guzzled both back-to-back without even wincing. He seemed like the kind of nigga that did everything smoothly and with little to no effort. He took the cups from my hand and placed them on the nearest table before tugging me toward him by the wrist.
“I’m ready for that dance.”
“What dance?” I feigned confusion.
He smirked as he inched closer, his large hand clasping my waist while his cologne assaulted my nose. His eyes that were low and glazed over—letting me know he was either bordering drunk or had smoked something—were boring into mine, causing my walls to contract a few times. He wasn’t saying a damn word but had me thinking about his thick body on top of mine, or how good his lips would feel kissing and sucking along my neck or breasts. Shit, even how his low, shaped-up beard would feel tickling my inner thighs as he ate my pussy like soufflé crossed my mind.
Shy was a muthafuckin’ problem. One I didn’t need when my relationship was already rocky.
“I can’t dance with you, Shy. I really shouldn’t be near you.”
“Why?” he quizzed, sinking his fingers into my side as he tugged my body against his.
“I have a man.”
“You mentioned that already. So, are you trying to remind me or yourself?”
That was a good ass question, and the answer that I refused to admit aloud, had me jerking away as his eyes squinted. I wasn’t about to become that girl. I did my shit while I was single, but I was fully committed while in a relationship. Shy wasn’t going to change that, no matter how damn fine he was.
“I just came out to have a good time with my girl. That's it. I'm not trying to meet anyone, so there isn’t a point in leading you on as if I am,” I explained.
“That's cool, shorty. Like I said, I ain’t the nigga to press you. I'm just feeding off what I see in yo eyes. That part of you that’s wondering if I can fuck you better than yo weak ass nigga. The answer is yea. I can, and I will if you want that shit... which you do ‘cause you ain’t come out in that
fuck me dress
for nothing. The fact that he even let you or didn’t see you in it, says all I need to fucking know. So, come holla at me when you decide to be a big girl and take this dick like you want to.”
My face contorted into a scowl at the arrogance behind his words. He was, obviously, used to getting whatever and whomever he wanted, but I wasn’t those bitches. The fact he tried to pull my card wasn’t sitting well with me either; I didn’t care that he was right to an extent.
Before I had the chance to check his ass, commotion sounded from nearby that had my eyes widening in alarm. I spotted a few dudes shoving one another as everyone started backing away to prevent being caught in the potential drama. As soon as the first
blow was thrown, my eyes darted around the section for Peaches; it was time to fucking go. I didn’t see her ass anywhere nor Renny, and I wasn’t about to leave without her.
I pulled out my phone to call her at the same instant that someone began screaming about a gun, causing all hell to break loose. The section turned into a frenzy of bodies running toward the stairs to leave. Shy grabbed my arm and was practically dragging me through the chaotic club towards the exit. I tried to snatch away but gave up after a few seconds because my weak ass wasn’t shit compared to his strength.
“Hold the fuck up! I have to make sure my girl is good. Shy!”
“She’s with Renny, so she’s straight. We need to go before—”
His sentence was cut short by the ear-ringing pops of gunfire as soon as we made it through the double doors. He covered my body with his and dashed across the street to a champagne-colored GMC Yukon. He hit the locks on his fob then scooped my ass up and tossed me into the passenger seat before hopping into the driver’s side.
“Did you drive?” he quizzed.
“No. I rode with Peaches.”
“Call your girl, now.” He checked the rearview mirror then reversed. “Exactly why I don’t fuck with this club shit anymore,” he muttered, skirting out the lot.
I dialed Peaches then placed the call on speaker while observing where Shy was driving. I assumed that he’d stop at a gas station to wait for instructions from her, but he was cruising as if he knew where to take me.
“Where the hell are you?” Peaches fussed the instant she picked up.
“In the car with your boo’s friend. I tried to look for you, but someone dragged me out the club.” I cut a side-eye in Shy’s direction as he ignored me. “Are y’all good?”
“We’re straight. Renny was walking me to the bathroom when shit popped off. We can’t even get out the lot because it’s flooded. I don’t even have my damn car.”
“Tell them to pick you up from my crib,” Shy instructed.
“Excuse me?”
“You aren’t deaf. We’re about to pull up at my spot. I’m not waiting outside when I can be comfortable in my own shit. Renny knows where it’s at.”
“That’ll work,” Peaches replied, giving me no option. “I’m about to grab a to-go order, then I’ll be on the way.”
“What?!” I screeched. “You can’t do that after you get me?”
“Girl, stop being annoying. You want something?”
“No,” I mumbled, and she laughed.
“We’ll be there soon. I’ll text when I’m outside.”
“Fine.”
I ended the call without warning then plopped back in my seat. I appreciated Shy looking out and all, but I wasn’t trying to be stuck at his damn house for who knew how long, fucking around with Peaches. He was a damn stranger, regardless of the fact that my pussy was begging for an introduction. That was where men and women differed; we could easily fight temptation, but most men just whipped their dicks out at the first opportunity for new pussy. They didn’t give one fuck.
I scoped out the area as Shy pulled into a quiet subdivision while turning his volume down. My brows furrowed because I was surprised that he lived in such a decent location—the kind where HOA was on someone’s ass if they had complaints against them, and the old folks were
neighborhood watch
. He pulled into the driveway of a two-story condo that resembled a townhome with a garage. I counted the windows as he parked and figured it had, at least, three bedrooms.
“How old are you?” I couldn’t help but ask.
“Twenty-six.”
“Oh, so, you live with your parents?”
“Hell, nah. I can’t have a nice place at my age?”
“I didn’t say you couldn’t. What do you do?”
He glared at me before saying, “You’re asking a lot of questions for someone that didn’t even want to come here. Let alone, give a nigga the time of day.”
“I just asked a simple fucking question! You don’t have to talk shit.”
“And you don’t have to raise yo voice. When I was nice, that ain’t work for you, so what the fuck you want?” He killed the engine then turned in his seat. “I tried being respectful, tried a little flirting, and was even straight up with yo ass. I bet, had that fight not started, you probably would’ve cursed me out for calling you on your shit. At this point, I’m done with it since my buzz is gone, and I’m irritated as hell because niggas stay fucking up a good thing. I’m just trying to get inside to shower and roll one. I honestly don’t want you here anymore than you want to be here.”
“At least, we agree on something.”
“Yea, aight, shorty. Get out,” he ordered, opening his car door as I stayed put. He groaned then ran a hand over his mouth before giving his beard a few tugs in annoyance. “Why the fuck are you so difficult? You give your nigga this hard of a time? ‘Cause I doubt it.”
“Fuck you! You don’t know me or my nigga, so watch your mouth.”
“You know what? Keep your pretty, confused ass right there.”
He hopped out then slammed his door closed before hitting the locks. I watched as he really went to his front door and entered, closing that shit behind him without even attempting to make me come. Granted, I was doing the most and shouldn’t have snapped, but he was speaking on shit he knew nothing about.
Instead of getting rid of my attitude and apologizing so that I could sit inside, I decided that waiting in the car was probably the better option for us both. The shooting had fucked his mood up, and I didn’t want to end up going at it with him again.
I pulled out my phone and checked my social media to kill time since there was no telling when Peaches would arrive. Everyone that was at the club had already made statuses about it, so I went lurking through comments to see if I could find the cause of the fight. As I was doing that, multiple notifications started popping up at the same instant. I didn’t think anything of it until I noticed one of them was from Jalisa, where she tagged me in the comment section of a video and asked,
is this your man, sis
? I realized then that the rest were from her flunky ass friends, who she probably had tag me as well.
My face frowned in confusion because the dude that posted it was my friend, but I didn’t really know him personally. Anthony also wasn’t in the video either from as far as I could tell. Still, my dumb ass continued to watch because curiosity killed the goddamn cat. I was finally about to quit after three minutes of watching but dude panned his phone to the right, and sure enough, there was Anthony seated on the top of a couch with some random hoe practically in his lap.
Her arms were tossed around his neck while he palmed her ass in the middle of the club as if he didn’t have a woman at home. They were in the cut and almost discreet with their shit, but social media was the biggest fucking snitch. My stomach was knotting the longer I stared at them, but that hurt turned into pure damn rage as that bitch pulled him downward for a kiss, and he let her!
“That muthafucka!” I screamed, throwing my phone across the car.
I heard the screen crack as it collided with the driver door then fell between the seat. I
wasn’t even pressed about that shit, however.
My mind was too busy attempting to process the shit I'd just seen. Anthony had been taking me through hell and back with his bullshit, and I was at my fucking limit. I had changed so much for him and turned into a person that even I couldn’t recall on most days, only for his bitch ass to continuously entertain the hoes that he claimed he didn’t want me to act or look like.
I had a trick for his ass, though. He'd officially woken up the dormant side of me that wasn’t about to sit idly while being played.
OceanofPDF.com

“
W
ho the fuck?”
My brows dipped at the sound of someone knocking on my front door as I turned the shower water off. I quickly wrapped a towel around my waist then stalked to my closet, grabbing my burner from the top shelf before heading to see who was at my shit so late. I didn’t bring many people to my crib, and none of the few that knew where I rested my head had hit my line about sliding through.
Instead of asking who it was, I peeked out the peephole in case it was someone I'd rather avoid. My eyes widened before I chuckled under my breath then flicked the lock to let shorty inside. It had been over a half hour since I left her ass in the car, and I forgot she was even out there. A nigga had faced the blunt, showered, and was about to climb in bed to get some shut eye before work. Her indecisive ass hadn’t crossed my mind since my high kicked in.
She was fine as hell, but I wasn’t feeling the mixed signals she was throwing. Shorty made it known that she had a man, yet she couldn’t take her eyes—that were saying
everything her mouth refused to—off me. I had no qualms with speaking the hell up, though, because she’d caught my attention the instant that I spotted her across the club at the bar with her wild ass homegirl.
I hadn’t even seen her face, but I knew she was top tier fine. Plus, her dress that was fitting to her slim thick ass perfectly was calling to me; the shit was whispering
tear me off and beat her pussy out the frame.
The last thing I was worrying about was her weak ass nigga. If she was smart, she wouldn’t either, but it was always the lame muthafuckas that ended up with the baddest, most loyal women just to fuck their heads up and damage them for the next nigga.
“I guess you dropped that attitude,” I stated while swinging the door open before placing my piece on the end table.
“No, I just got cold.”
Her eyes rolled before she strutted inside, examining my living room that was neat and neutrally decorated, courtesy of my mother. I was a bachelor, but she didn’t play that dirty house shit. I was raised cleaning, cooking, and the whole nine. That was possibly the reason I was never pressed to have a bitch. I dated a few women, but it was nothing serious because they never had much to offer outside of sex, in my opinion.
“Your girl still not on her way?” I asked, locking up as she tossed her clutch onto the couch.
“I wouldn’t know.”
“She hasn’t called?”
“Didn’t I just say that I wouldn’t know. I broke my phone.”
“How did you do that inside the car?” I quizzed as she slowly glided toward me.
My lids narrowed skeptically as I watched her eyes slowly roaming my bare chest that was slightly wet since I hadn’t dried off yet. Her attention lingered at the towel that was around my waist before she gazed up at me.
It wasn’t until that moment that I noticed the glossiness of her eyes along with a tinge of pink. She didn’t smell like weed, so either she’d fallen asleep or had been crying. The fact that her phone was broken pretty much summed that shit up for me.
“What happened, shorty?” I pressed.
“Doesn’t matter.” She placed her soft hands against my chest before guiding them to my neck. Her smile was mischievous, and I knew her ass was up to no good as she
requested, “Just fuck me, so I can forget about it.”
My hands went straight to her hips, yanking her close so that she could feel my dick swelling at her words. If she was serious, then I was more than willing to oblige. I gripped her ass firmly with one hand and squeezed while coaxing her to grind against me.
“You sure about that?” I asked, licking my lips in anticipation as she nodded.
“You said to holla at you when I decided to be a big girl, right?”
“No doubt. So, tell me exactly what you want.”
“I want you to fuck me, Shy. Fuck me so good that I can’t even remember my nigga’s name by the time you’re done.”
“Say less.”
Her arms tightened around my neck as I scooped her up, heading for the bedroom as she attacked my mouth—sucking my bottom lip before slipping her tongue inside to tangle with mine. I hadn’t planned on kissing since we didn’t know each other well, but the low moans that she was emitting had my ass submitting and going with the flow. Clearly, that was something that turned her on.
“Stick out your tongue,” she commanded.
I didn’t even think twice before doing that shit. She caught me off guard when she sucked it between her full lips, but the fact that my dick grew hard as fucking steel surprised me even more.
I slammed her onto the wall, causing her to whimper as I snatched my towel off. I hiked her dress to her waist and went to pull her panties to the side but felt nothing but smooth skin and arousal.
“You ain’t come out tonight to get fucked, though?” I blasted, stroking my dick a few times before anxiously lowering her onto it.
Her walls suctioned me inside greedily like they’d been dying to engulf my dick. I clamped a hand around her throat and squeezed before sticking my tongue back into her mouth as I drove inside her pussy hastily with rough, deep thrusts. Her nails sank into my shoulders, and I knew that shit was going to leave a mark. The way her insides were soaking and squeezing my dick with each stroke made me not give a damn, though.
She threw her pussy back at me while moaning aloud, sounding good as hell. Her hand went to my ass to force me in deeper, and I grunted before biting her neck. She didn’t try to stop me but angled her head so that I could suck there while pounding her
spot steadily.
“You still thinking about that nigga?” I whispered into her ear then nibbled at her lobe.
“Mhm. He’s getting fuzzy, but I need him to disappear.”
“How many times you gotta cum for that to happen?”
“Three,” she shot out immediately, and I chuckled.
“Light work, shorty.”
I simpered while positioning each of her legs onto my shoulders so that she was folded against the wall while her pussy was wide the fuck open. My hands found a resting place on her ass—my fingers sinking into her supple skin like quicksand as I started hammering her shit fervently without warning. Her mouth gaped in shock and hands shot to my chest to halt my strokes, but I kept a steady beat on her spot that I knew was rearranging some shit.
“Shy, it’s in my guts!”
“You gon’ bust so fucking good, too, shorty,” I assured, pummeling her pussy as she cried out while clawing at my chest. As soon as her walls collapsed around me, I boasted, “That’s one.”
I could feel her trying to hold that shit in, so I slipped my thumb in her mouth to moisten it then pressed it onto her hardened clit. I made swift circles against her bud until she couldn’t hold back and moaned loudly while busting on my dick. Her back arched off the wall as her legs quavered on my shoulders.
“Two more,” I told her, holding her body close as I headed for the bedroom.
I wasn’t about to give her time to regroup, especially since her pussy was gushy and dripping like a damn faucet. I needed her to get off back-to-back because once I got mine, there wasn’t any coming back for me with how hard I already knew I was going to nut.
“Wait,” she breathed out, hooking a hand on the door frame to stop me as I tried to enter my room. “If we get in that bed, I don’t want this to turn intimate. I just want some good, rough, nasty dick. A memorable one night stand. That's it.”
“You sure?” I confirmed, and she nodded. “Aight. Whatever you want.”
If we got in my bed, I was going to fuck and suck her ass into oblivion; she knew that shit, too. That was the point of her giving me stipulations. So, to keep the momentum flowing with no hiccups, I headed for the dresser instead. I sat her on it then snatched her top down, causing her pretty ass breasts to pop out. They were full and round with thick
nipples that had a metal bar piercing through each. Shit was sexy as fuck.
“I didn’t take you for the nipple piercing type,” I admitted, lowering to suck one into my mouth as she palmed my head.
She moaned softly before asking, “Why is that?”
“You just seem like the girl that’s always in her head. Doesn’t know how to have fun or live. Always finding some shit to complain or be angry about like in the car.” I kept it a buck, stopping long enough to alternate between each breast until she was squirming in anxiousness. Her hand was rubbing up and down my head as she hummed her pleasure. “Ain’t no reason for anyone so fine and with pussy as good as yours to be like that.”
“Niggas will do that to you,” she replied then cupped my face to pull me up for a kiss.
I tilted my head to deepen it then strummed her clit again as she moaned into my mouth. Her legs widened before she tried to yank me between them, but I lifted her from the dresser then spun her instead. I kicked her legs apart and cupped a breast with one hand while guiding my dick back inside her with the other.
“Shit,” I hissed, shoving her body against the dresser with mine as she inhaled shakily. “This shit is even warmer and tighter than before. You know how fucking good you feel, shorty? You see how hard you got my dick?” I questioned between short, hard pumps that made her breath hitch every time. “You see how fucking pretty you are,” I praised, gripping her throat and angling her head to force her eyes on the mirror. “This is what you needed, right? Some good dick and a nigga to tell you how goddamn bad you are.”
I ran a hand over her smooth skin that was sleek in sweat and the prettiest fucking shade of rich chocolate. Just looking at her beautiful face—the way her mouth was parted and eyes heady with lust—had my hips moving faster against my will. My hand tightened around her neck to the point that she was gagging as I short pumped her pussy with a vengeance.
Her hands shot out in front of her, knocking shit down on my dresser as she tried to find anything to grab onto. My pelvic was slamming against her ass, creating a clapping sound that reverberated around the room and turned me on even more. Her moans were even louder, and between all that while watching her breasts bounce wildly; I was close to nutting with no fucking plans of pulling out. I shouldn’t have been in her raw to begin with, but she had my ass thinking that a baby didn’t sound too bad.
“Shy!” she cried, clawing at my dresser while staring me dead in the eyes through the mirror. Her chest was heaving, and I could feel her pulse pounding in her neck. That shit had me ramming into her harder, causing her eyes to begin rolling as she screamed, “Oh,
my fucking God!”
Her dam broke and juices gushed down my shaft as my eyes clamped shut. One sudden stroke was going to have me out the game, so I kept still as her walls pulsed around me. She purposely used her muscles to squeeze the hell out of my dick, and I tugged her head back by her hair as she giggled.
“That shit ain’t gon’ work with me,” I enlightened, wrapping her hair around my fist before propping her leg onto the dresser.
I could see the amusement drain from her face as I pressed a hand to her lower back, holding her steady so that I could get in that shit the way I wanted. As soon as I started plowing into her—beating her spot while hitting her at an angle to stretch her out—she was screaming to the top of her lungs and cursing my fucking name. I held her hair tighter to prevent her from inching up the dresser, leaving her ass no choice but to take the blows I was delivering.
“You said three, right?” I taunted, making sure to pull out to the tip of my head before feeding her the whole dick in swift pounds. “One more, shorty. Can you take it?”
“Yesss,” she whined, rocking back onto my length to match my strokes.
I was giving her ass the business, and she was taking every goddamn inch. My teeth sank into my lower lip as I watched my dick disappearing in and out her swollen hole. That shit had my mouth watering. I wanted to eat her pussy so bad but remembered her rules and decided against it—focusing on my task of getting her to that final release. The faster I stroked, the wetter she got to where her essence was saturating my pelvic, balls, and inner thighs.
“All this good pussy, and you wasting it on a fucking lame,” I gritted, slapping her ass hard enough to sting my own hand. I smacked it again then asserted, “Don’t let no nigga weaken or change you. He should be groveling at your feet with the kind of power you holding right here. Use this shit like a weapon.” I spread her ass open then groaned throatily at her sticky cum smeared messily between. “You probably ain’t cum this much in forever, huh?”
“No,” she breathed out as I slowly glided in and out, listening to her pussy smacking with each movement. “Shyyy... don’t fuck me slow.”
“Why?”
“Just don’t, please,” she begged, trying to sit up.
I hemmed her ass right back down before dipping in balls deep then eased out even
slower as she whined for me to stop. I kept at it and ignored her pleas, watching her body shudder nonstop each time I filled her with dick. Her walls began locking around me so tightly that I could barely move, and not even a minute or so later, her ass was practically crying as she creamed heavily.
“Mmm... ahhh, shit,” I grumbled as my dick throbbed.
Her body jerked and twitched as she coated my shaft. Her hand reached back to touch any part of me that she could as she crooned, “Damnit, Shy.”
I couldn’t even contain my moans as I allowed my head to fall back in pleasure. My thigh muscles started tensing and shit as I held onto her hips, pumping into her erratically to get mine. That shit was so good; she was throwing off my stroke game.
I rammed her insides like a jackhammer then abruptly pulled out to jerk my dick before releasing on one of her cheeks. My hand immediately rested on the dresser afterward as I tried to regulate my breathing. Once I was straight, I smacked shorty on the ass a few times then helped remove her leg from the dresser.
“Stay bent over,” I instructed, dragging my feet to the hall to grab my towel. My body was tired as hell.
She kept still as I returned and cleaned up my mess then carefully wiped between her legs as well. Her eyes were already trained on my face when I peeked in the mirror to check her expression. I figured she’d suddenly flip and overreact since we fucked while she had a man, but she seemed calm.
“You good?”
“Yea.” She nodded then adjusted her dress and combed through her hair with her fingers before turning to me. “Really good.”
“That nigga still on your mind?”
“Who?”
I chuckled. “Sounds about right.”
“You’re real confident, Mr. Shy.”
“Shouldn’t I be? I gave you what you needed without knowing shit about you. Not even your name, shorty, which I think I should know since my dick has been in you.”
I caught the way she squeezed her thighs together as if the mere mention of being inside her got that pussy revving. She shook her head before replying, “It’s E—shit!”
She jumped as her sentence caught in her throat from someone suddenly pounding
on my damn door. I moved shorty aside and found a pair of night pants to hastily slide into then darted to the front of my house as she rushed behind me.
“It’s probably Peaches or Renny,” she reminded me as I scooped my gun from the table.
I was so busy digging her pussy out that I forgot about their asses, too. I checked and made sure it was one of them before unlocking the door.
“Where is my friend?” Peaches burst inside like she was about to beat my ass. “I’ve been calling her phone, and she isn’t picking up.”
“I’m right here,” she answered, strutting over with her clutch underneath her arm. “I dropped my phone outside and cracked the screen.”
Peaches glowered at me before glancing to her girl, examining her as if she were precious cargo. I could see the suspicion in her eyes as she glanced between us, trying to figure out some shit that wasn’t her business to know.
“Thanks for making sure she was good,” Peaches finally said, and I cut my eyes to
Mango
with a smirk.
“Anytime.”
She gave a quick wave then darted out the house, and Peaches looked at me again like she wanted to say something but thought better of it before following her friend to the car. I stepped into the doorway to chuck my chin at Renny then watched until they pulled off down the street.
They weren’t even out of sight, and my mind was already plotting on ways to get close to shorty again. Her nigga would be sick if he knew I'd just dicked his girl down and had every intention of doing that shit as much as possible. Fuck that one-night stand
bullshit she was spitting; I had to have her.
“I need you to open as wide as you can for me,” I instructed, watching as the cute shorty in front of me with juicy lips and dimpled cheeks opened her mouth. “A little more.”
“This is as much as I can,” she muttered, frowning as I shook my head.
“Aight. This'll do.”
I grabbed the mouth tray that I'd already filled with mold then cupped her chin before carefully inserting it into her mouth. I pressed it down on her bottom row of teeth since that was where she wanted her open-faced grillz.
“Bite down for me as hard as you can. You're gon’ hold it for a couple minutes.”
She nodded, clamping her mouth shut as I started jotting down her information and the kind of grill that she requested so that I could tag her bag with it.
Once I was done, I sauntered to the door and powered off the open sign. I was heading to lunch as soon as I finished with her. Since my employee that was supposed to work with me called out and the other was on vacation, I had no choice but to man the front. I didn’t have an issue with that because it was my job to pick up the slack as the owner, but it was going on three in the afternoon and I hadn’t eaten a damn thing.
My stomach was in my back, and a nigga was too tired to grab breakfast before work because shorty had worn my ass the fuck out. I woke up late with my body aching like I'd hit the gym. I hated to admit that I hadn’t worked so hard in the pussy for a minute. Most of the slides I hit were solely for a nut—one and done—but she made me feel like I had something to prove. Especially since Anthony was her nigga.
I had no clue that she was his girl the first time I approached her. It wasn’t until I told Renny that I was checking for her that he mentioned her being
Anthony’s old lady.
I probably should have fallen back, knowing that he was cool with my brother, but that only made me want her even more.
Anthony was a wack ass nigga that pretended he was something that he wasn’t. I couldn’t fuck with flauging people like him. It was cool if a nigga didn’t have money or status, but when they perpetrated as if they were balling and didn’t have a pot to piss in or window to throw it out of; that was the shit I couldn’t respect. Bitches thought that he was worth snagging, while having no idea they were giving up the pussy with no return investment in sight.
The fact that he was cheating on one of the finest women I'd seen with some fire pussy was just another reason I didn’t fuck with him. I knew he had a girl but had never seen her, so I kicked it to him the same way that I did to my little brother. That cheating and stringing women along instead of being single was going to backfire. It had for Mal, and Anthony didn’t know it yet, but it had for his ass, too. It was going to be a wrap for
them once I got my hands on her again.
The thought of her pretty ass had me rushing to finish up with my customer—removing her mold to place into her designated bag before taking her deposit. She was grinning hard as hell as I escorted her to the door, and I already knew what was coming.
“So, what are you about to get into after this? I saw you cut the sign off,” she noted.
“Lunch then back to work.”
“You should let me join you. My treat.”
“I don’t let women pay for my shit, but I appreciate the offer, baby girl. Maybe next time,” I assuaged, brushing her off as politely as possible.
“Okay. I’m going to remember this when I pick up my fronts.”
I chuckled. “Do that. Enjoy your day.”
My hand went to the small of her back as I ushered her out then locked up. I made a mental note to not work on the day that she was set to pick up her order. Had my mind not been so preoccupied with thoughts of shorty from last night, I damn sure would have taken her up on the offer, though. We probably wouldn’t have made it to lunch, but I’d have made sure she was fed, aight.
I grabbed my phone from the charger and placed a to-go order for some shrimp Alfredo from Applebee’s since it was the closest thing that I had a taste for, then pulled up my social media. The only reason I had that shit was for promotional purposes with my grillz business, but it was about to come in handy.
I didn’t have a name for
Mango
, so I went to her nigga’s page. I scrolled his shit for a minute and wasn’t even surprised to see that she was nowhere to be found. He hadn’t tagged her in anything, and there was only one profile picture with her in it from a few years ago. I couldn’t do shit but shake my head.
I wasn’t about to search his friends because there was no telling where her name was on his list of five thousand people dumb enough to add him. After thinking over it for a minute or so, I snapped my fingers then typed in
Peaches
.
Sure enough, she really had that ghetto shit as her profile name, and it popped up immediately since we had mutual friends. A picture from last night of her and her homegirl was the first thing on her page when I clicked that shit. Thankfully, she wasn’t one of those lowkey, hating ass friends that never tagged their girls.
“
Ebony
,” I stated with a bob of my head.
I liked how that shit rolled off my tongue as if it weren’t a basic ass name. She didn’t give me Ebony vibes at first sight, but she threw that pussy and took dick like an Ebony straight from the hood. I stared at the picture of her in that infamous dress for a while before tapping her name.
No surprise, her page was private, so I mulled over whether or not to send a friend request. I wanted to hop in her DMs but figured that would scare her off. An email popped up to alert me that my food was ready as I was thinking it over, so I quickly hit
add friend
then grabbed my keys and headed out the shop.
By the time that I made it to the parking lot of the restaurant, I was fishing my phone from my pocket to check if she accepted my request. My notifications weren’t showing she added me, but the request I sent was gone. My face fell as I went back to Peaches’ page and noticed that Ebony’s name was no longer a hyperlink but bold and black.
I busted the fuck out laughing. Shorty had blocked my ass.
OceanofPDF.com

Almost Three Weeks Later...
I
was convinced that old fucking habits die hard. Even after witnessing Anthony kiss another bitch on video for the world to see, my dumb ass decided to stay. He pleaded and begged for days so that I'd believe his excuse of being drunk and having no idea she was about to kiss him. I gave in, eventually, because he seemed genuine, but the nigga was right back to being a fuck up in record time. Although I hadn’t heard shit about him and another bitch, he was still falling short in every other aspect.
I glanced toward the street one final time before I sucked my teeth then spun, pressing my keycard to the reader so that I could reenter the call center building. Anthony had asked to use my car for some errands, so I had him drop me off. If I knew the nigga would decide to slip back into his bullshit, I would have told him take his own damn ride. I had less than an hour to get to the department store for my shift, and he was late.
As much as I didn’t want to call Peaches, I had no choice since she was the only
person who’d come without a second thought. I mean, my parents would as well, but I wasn’t in the mood to hear either of them dissing Anthony for the entire duration of the ride. I could deal with Peaches easier since she knew when to stop, but my parents had no damn chill, whatsoever.
Just as I was about to dial her number, Anthony’s dumb ass name flashed onto the screen. I slid the green icon then pressed the phone to my ear.
“Where are you, Ant?”
“I’m outside. I been out here. Where you at?”
“Coming.”
I ended the call without pulling his fucking card—talking about he was outside like I hadn’t been out there for twenty minutes prior. He was really beginning to irritate the hell out of me, even outside of doing dumb shit. It was as if I was beginning to see him in a new light. The wool he had over my eyes was thinning, and his fuck boy tendencies were more apparent than ever.
It didn’t take a rocket scientist to know that it was because of that fucking night with Shy. Honestly, that was the main reason I forgave Anthony. Yes, he’d kissed someone, but I straight gave up the pussy and didn’t feel an ounce of remorse about it. If anything, I wanted to do that shit again, which was the reason for me blocking Shy when he tried to add my page.
I didn’t know it was him immediately and figured it was just some business attempting to gain new customers. Something told me to check it out, though, and my pussy began thrumming the second I saw his fine ass face. He looked even better than I recalled, and seeing him in his work element while concentrating or smiling elatedly was beautiful. Then, as I scrolled more and realized it was
his
damn business, I knew that I had to block him.
Shy was fine, had bomb dick, and owned a business... he was going to make a bitch fall in love. I couldn’t have that and found myself hurriedly blocking him on every outlet before he found me. It was a scaredy cat move, but oh fucking well; me and my pussy were shooketh. Sex between us was a onetime thing, and we needed to keep it as such.
“What’s up, bae?” Anthony greeted as I climbed in the car, pausing momentarily before glaring at him.
“You were smoking in here?”
“Nah. I just finished before I got in the car.”
“Mhm. Anyway, you can ‘head to the crib, and I'll drive myself to work.”
“Why? I still got some moves to make.”
“Me too, so drive your own car. I'm meeting up with Peaches later.”
“For what?”
“Damn! Can I see my friend without the twenty-one questions?” I snapped, and he cut his narrowed eyes to me. “I told you that I was doing the charity car wash with her this weekend, and we need something to wear.”
Peaches had talked me into being a
washer girl
for her uncle’s carwash event. Each month during the summer, he did a different event then donated the funds to back-to-school organizations. Since it was for a good cause, I decided that I'd help for once. She had one of her homegirls coming past her house later with a few items so that we could find the perfect bathing suits.
“Man, ever since you went out with her a couple weeks ago, you’ve been doing too much,” Anthony griped.
“How? I've been with her like three times since then.”
“Three times more than usual.”
“Whatever. You wouldn’t even care if you didn’t want to drive my car.”
“And that’s another thing!” he shouted, pointing a finger in my face. “Your fucking mouth. That shit wasn’t even that bad until she started coming around again.”
“No, it wasn’t that bad until I caught you kissing some bitch on video.”
“Man, here you go, bringing up old shit. If you claim to forgive me, then let it go, E! I fucked up, and I apologized. I ain’t know she was about to do that shit. If he hadn’t moved the camera, you would have seen me shove her away.”
I burst into laughter. “Aight, Anthony.”
“I’m dead ass, bae. Can we move past this? I don’t like our vibe lately. It's like you’re here, but you aren’t. You don’t even react the same when I touch you, and I peeped you can hardly look me in the face lately. Is that video shit really the issue?”
My eyes bucked slightly because I was surprised that he even noticed. Anthony was so fucking self-absorbed that I doubted he would realize I was withdrawing. It wasn’t intentional on my end, but knowing better was out there—and merely an
unblock
away—had me in my feelings. I was beginning to think I was wasting my time with Anthony after all, especially if a nigga I didn’t know could make me feel so good physically
and
mentally.
Sex with Shy was exhilarating. It was like his dick had given back my power that I’d lost while being with Anthony for so long. Not to mention, the nigga was basically giving affirmations and speaking life into me through my pussy. That was some new shit, but I loved every damn minute of it. I’d never felt so sexy in my life.
Every time I thought about Shy over the past couple weeks, I had to duck off so that I could fantasize about him in peace while pleasing myself. I could have used my nigga, but that seemed wrong on so many levels. I also didn’t want to end up disappointed when the actual sex didn’t measure up to the fantasy. I thought Anthony had that good dick, but Shy knocked his ass out the water.
It was even crazier since I knew for a fact that he hadn’t done half the shit that he could have because I made sure of it. I didn’t need a repeat of how I ended up with Anthony—a one-night stand turned relationship because the dick was bomb. That was where I’d fucked up because there was so much shit that I didn’t know about Anthony outside of him being able to satisfy me sexually.
Shy already had me close to telling his ass that I loved him when he hit me with those slow strokes. I felt that shit in my soul. I came so damn hard that I didn’t think he’d be able to pull out with the way my walls locked up. Even
she
didn’t want to let him go. I had asked him to make that shit memorable, and he damn sure delivered. I just had to shake that shit off and place my focus back into my withering relationship.
“We both have a lot of things we need to work on,” I stated, staring straight ahead. “I don’t think either of us are happy with this relationship, right now.”
“Fuck are you talking ‘bout? I'm happy, Ebony, and I love you. Obviously, that shit ain’t mutual.”
“I never said that I didn’t love you, Ant. Don’t put words in my mouth.”
“You’re the one, talking ‘bout a nigga ain’t happy. I never said that bullshit! Yea, it’s some things I want you to do differently, but I ain’t trying to end it.”
“I’m not either.”
“Then, what do you want, E?”
“I want you to treat me like your woman. Spend time with me, take me out. Shit, at least show me some affection in public. You haven’t done that in forever.”
“You’re right. I've been slacking,” he replied with a nod. “We can hit up this car wash shit together, then.”
“Really?”
“I was planning to slide through anyway, so I'll just post up there with you.”
“Can I hit the club with you afterward?”
He was quiet as he pulled into our complex. I just knew he was going to turn me down but got the biggest surprise as he nodded while pulling in front of our apartment.
“Yea, you can roll with me. I don’t want any shit from you, though, man.”
“I’ll be good, I promise!” I exclaimed, tossing my arms around his neck before kissing him.
I was actually excited because we hadn’t gone out together in a while. I could already hear Peaches’ mouth about him showing face at the car wash, but she’d get over it. If he was willing to take notice of our issues and work on them, then I had to do the same. Besides, if all went well, I could finally stop obsessing over triple-threat Shy.
“About time you got here,” Peaches griped, swinging the door open while moving aside so that I could enter.
The smell of weed smacked me dead in the face as I stepped in, and I hastily glanced around the room until my eyes landed on her homegirl. She was sitting on the couch with a fat blunt in her hand that I desperately needed.
“Can I hit that?” I asked, tossing my purse down before sitting next to her.
“Here you go, boo. My shit is like that, though, so take it easy.”
“Somebody must’ve had a long day.” Peaches laughed as I took a long drag of the blunt then passed it back.
“Listen, between both of those jobs, and Anthony’s ass... I am drained. Not to mention, Jalisa came into the store today with the bullshit. Bitch was in there switching tags on the items for a lower price like people are dumb. Then, one of her friends had bags full of shit to return with no receipt and was giving my cashiers a hard time, so they had to call
me up front. She talking ‘bout why? ‘Cause, bitch, we know it’s stolen!”
“I wish I could have seen their faces.”
“Ok! For the first time ever, they were mute as hell. Ain't have shit to say, with their thieving asses. She could have, at least, gone to another store.”
“Yours is the easiest to return shit at, though,” Peaches pointed, and I laughed.
“True, but still.”
“So, what happened?” her homegirl quizzed, passing me the blunt again.
“I just had them put it on a gift card because I wasn’t about to deal with the back and forth.”
“Well, shit! That’s exactly why they came to your store, then,” she joked.
“All that for some ten to twenty dollar bathing suits, dresses, and sandals, though? I mean, some of it was cute, but still.”
Peaches cackled. “They must be getting right for the carwash, too. It's all good, ‘cause we’re about to put pressure on their asses. Show us what you got, Ashley.”
“Aight!”
She hopped from the couch excitedly, grabbing a few bags that I hadn’t noticed were sitting at the side of the love seat adjacent to us. My interest was piqued as I read the designer names emblazoned across each bag. She had shit from Fendi, Gucci, Versace, Prada, and even a couple Chanel pieces that I knew cost a grip.
“Wait, is this real? How the hell did you steal this?” I gawked.
“Oh, no, boo. Unlike your little friends from the store, I don’t steal. All this is paid for.”
“So, you paid for this but are selling it for the low? That doesn’t make sense.”
“You’re right... and I never said that I paid for it. I just said that it was
paid for
,” she corrected, smiling as she started pulling items out the bags.
I was confused as hell, and Peaches knew it because she turned to me and laughed.
“Just put it like this,” she stated, picking up a bikini set before tossing it over her shoulder. “I have her ass saved in my phone as Scam Likely.”
I cackled loudly as Ashley gave her a playful shove. All the designer labels she had made perfect sense; she was a finesser. Clearly, a good ass one to have niggas purchasing the kind of shit she had on hand. She could have also been scamming niggas for their credit card information as well, but I wasn’t about to delve into her business and
find out.
“You like this one, E? It'll look good on you.”
Peaches held up a pink Gucci two piece that was similar in design to the black and brown Fendi one she’d chosen. I thought it was fire, but I could already hear Anthony’s mouth once he saw me in it.
“It’s cute, but Ant might trip.”
“Just get dressed here. I know his ass will be out there, but it’ll be too late for him to do anything about it by then.”
“Actually...” I shot her a smile as she immediately frowned, placing a hand on her hip. “I’m going with Ant. We were talking earlier about our relationship and decided that he’d come there with me, and I'd hit the club later with him. You know, doing stuff together as a couple.”
“Girl, please! That's a crock of bullshit, E. Anthony is only coming so that he can keep tabs on your ass. He ain’t feeling the fact that you’re hanging out more, and especially with me. Not to mention, I'm sure he can tell that you’ve been glowing and walking with a pep in your step since the night we went out.”
“What are you talking about?”
“Don’t play me for dumb, bitch! You can deny it all you want, but I know something went down with you and that nigga. He was looking at you like he wanted to stuff your ass with dick right there at the door. Plus, you were walking funny. He had that pussy swollen and tattling on yo ass.”
It was taking every bit of composure I had to not crack the hell up because she was accurate as fuck. The first thing I did once I made it home was soak in the tub and days afterward as well. Luckily, I had a reason for Anthony to not touch me since I was pissed about the video. That gave me more than enough time to work out the damage Shy had done.
Peaches was my best bitch, so I wanted to tell her, but I couldn’t cop to fucking him. For one, she would press the issue of me reaching out again. Two, I couldn’t risk her dry snitching on me if she and Anthony crossed paths. They had words for one another anytime they were in the same vicinity, and the last thing I needed was her insinuating that I'd cheated just to get under his skin.
“Whatever, Peaches. You’re just thinking too much into it because you wanted it to happen.”
“You’re right. I was hoping he fucked some sense into you, but I guess not since you’re still with the same trifling ass nigga. The dick must’ve been weak.”
“I wouldn’t know,” I lied, rolling my eyes as I grabbed my purse. “How much for that one, Ashley?”
“Half price so three hundred, but I'll give it to you for two. I have a feeling I want to piss your man off.”
“Ok! He needs to see that my friend ain’t nothing to play with,” Peaches boasted as I shook my head while handing the money over.
That price was making a bitch sweat, but I sucked it up and paid because I deserved to spend some cash for pleasure instead of solely on bills. Anthony managed to pay his own car note and insurance, surprisingly, so I was left with almost five hundred dollars to spare after paying the rent, putting food in the house, and handling whatever else expenses we had. I was hoping that he’d keep it up so that I could treat myself more often.
After listening to Peaches complaining for a few minutes more about Anthony butting in on our plans, I said my goodbyes then took my tired ass home. I couldn’t wait until the weekend because I requested those days off from both jobs, and I had every intention of making the best of it.
OceanofPDF.com

“
I
t’s so fucking hot out here,” I complained, fanning my face while gazing to the entrance as multiple cars attempted to enter the cramped car wash lot.
The turnout was bigger than I anticipated, and I was pissed that I'd been missing out for the past few years. The shit was more so like a day party with niggas posted up on their rides, chicks dancing to the music blasting from their speakers, and there were even drinks being passed around on the sly from a few trunks. It was lit as fuck.
“You wouldn’t be so hot if you’d take those damn shorts and tank top off,” Peaches replied with a roll of her eyes. “Spent two hundred on a bathing suit you can’t even show because your nigga gon’ bitch about it. Couldn’t be meee,” she dragged, taking a sip from her cup as I laughed.
“Bitch, fuck you.”
“Come on. I'd treat you better, anyway.”
“Whatever. Don't act like you can’t see that Anthony has been on his best behavior.
He’s been turning away every bitch that’s stepped to him today.”
“He has because he can tell you let another nigga hit.”
“I did not, and stop saying that,” I whispered harshly as she cracked up. “It’s not funny, Peaches.”
“No, what’s not funny is the fact that you can’t even keep it real with your best friend. You've been around Ant too long... just lying all the time for no reason, now.”
“I’m not about to do this with you. Help me clean this car.”
“I’ve helped you with four cars past my damn limit, E.”
“We’ve only done four cars.”
“Exactly. I don’t come out to actually clean these dusty ass rides, boo. I come to look cute and meet the dicks that drive them. Dassit.”
She winked before readjusting the band of her bikini bottoms then spun so that her ass was facing the incoming cars. Not even five seconds later, one of them was stopping and blowing the horn to gain her attention. She waved for him to pull in and park then chucked me a deuce as she strutted her fast ass off. The heels she was crazy enough to wear had her tattooed ass fluttering with every step she took, and I couldn’t even blame the nigga for stopping the line to holla at her.
Since I had already been paid for my services, I grabbed a sponge from the bucket of water and began washing the car versus following her over to the silver Range filled with fine ass niggas. I didn’t need to take my ass over there anyway, for Anthony to spot me and have a fit or add another reason to his list of complaints about Peaches. I was already on thin ice with him about my bikini.
Anthony hardly ever tripped about the shit I wore, but the nigga almost had a damn aneurism at the sight of me earlier. He tried to make me take it off, but I dismissed that idea quickly. I was going to wear my shit, with as much money as I had to dish out for it. I didn’t care whether it was underneath my shorts and top or not. Hell, as hot as it was, Anthony was about to just be pissed because I was two seconds from saying to hell with his feelings.
The thought caused me to realize that it had been a minute since I spotted him, and he hadn’t checked up on me either. At first, he was posted directly across the lot on my car where he could keep a clear eye on me, but his ass had managed to dip off since I was focused on washing the cars.
I did a half ass job with finishing the one I was on—although the owner hadn’t
seemed to notice—then started walking around the lot to see where he’d gone. My nerves were fucking with me bad because if I caught that nigga on some dumb shit while I was present, there wasn’t any telling how I'd react. It was sad that I automatically expected the worst from him, but Anthony was fucking up more often than not lately.
Thankfully, as I rounded the corner to the opposite side of the building, I spotted him ducked off with a few other niggas. There were bitches lingering around as well, but the men were all too focused on shooting craps to pay them any attention. I started to head back to the front since I hated being around while anyone was shooting dice, but a bitch that I wanted to smack the shit out of caught my attention.
That bartender hoe, Shaquanda, was standing directly behind Anthony with a group of girls. Right then, I knew that my nigga was the cause of her having a fucking attitude that night at the bar. I wasn’t positive that he knew her on that level, but I was certain she wanted his ass and hated me because of it. Bitches were salty like that.
Just to fuck with both of them, I hurriedly yanked off my shorts and top then stuffed them into the mini knapsack that I was carrying. I gave the building’s window a quick glance to ensure my hair, makeup, and body were still on point, then pranced my ass right across the lot to where they were posted.
Anthony didn’t notice me immediately, but the dude that was about to roll did. His hand paused mid-air as he did a double take then tossed his head for me to come over while wearing a wide ass grin.
“Aye. Blow for me, baby girl. You look like good luck,” he flirted, holding his hand out for me to blow the dice.
Anthony peered up in irritation since ole boy was holding up the game. His eyes bucked, and he shot from his squatted stance the instant that he saw it was me. I almost tripped in my damn sandals with how fast he was on my ass—dragging me a few cars down from everyone that was staring in amusement.
“Where the fuck are yo clothes at, E? I told you keep that shit on!”
“I got hot,” I replied, snatching away with a glower. “I'm actually working, and that material sticking to my skin is annoying.”
“Man, you’re really testing me. You’re always trying to do what these other bitches are doing. They ain’t mine! You got niggas hollering at you in my face and shit like they don’t know what’s up, ‘cause you out here practically naked.”
“They don’t know what’s up because they probably haven’t even seen us together,” I
quipped, and he shut the fuck up. “Even now, you come out here with me, but why you over there with some other hoes? You know that bitch, Shaquanda?”
His face twisted up before he belted, “Hell, nah, I don’t know no Shaquanda. Which one is that?”
“The one that was so close to you, her pussy was practically on the top of yo head!”
He burst into laughter before tossing an arm around my waist to pull me close. I turned my head, biting back a smile as he tried to kiss me. His mouth latched onto my neck instead—sucking and kissing there before moving to my collarbone while I faked like I wanted him to release me, knowing I was loving the attention.
I peered over my shoulder, and that hoe’s face was so tight that I thought the shit would cave in. I simpered then rolled my eyes before turning to face Anthony again. Just as I did so, a Yukon the color of champagne bent around the building and almost made me piss my pants.
“This can’t be life,” I muttered, watching as it parked wherever it wanted, blocking in two other cars.
Shy hopped out like he was the muthafuckin’ man to see—his bare chest littered with intricate ink designs on display while a pair of tan cargo shorts hung slightly from his waist to show off the band of his boxer briefs. The Caesar fade he was sporting was fresh and piled with waves while his trimmed beard was glistening as if he’d just finished eating the juiciest pussy.
His eyes were covered by shades, but I could tell the exact second that they landed on me. My clit jolted as his hand groped at his crotch before he swiped his tongue along the top row of grills donning his teeth.
“What’s wrong?” Anthony asked.
“Hmm?”
His eyes narrowed quizzically before he reiterated, “What’s wrong? You look like you saw a ghost or some shit.”
“No, I'm good. I need to get back to the front, though.”
“Nah, chill back here with me. I don’t need none of those niggas trying to get a you while I can’t see.”
“You couldn’t see me at first. What's the difference?”
“This is the damn difference,” he answered, waving a hand over me. “You weren’t out
this bitch with no clothes on.”
“You’re doing the most, right now,” I griped.
“Why you over here, fucking with this girl?” Mal, one of Anthony’s homeboys, intervened.
He was one of the few friends of Anthony’s that I actually liked. We weren’t around each other often, but he’d come past the house every now and again. He was cool and had something going for himself, unlike Anthony’s other friends that were forever asking for loans I had to dish out and rides like some damn bums. Crazily enough, he hung around those losers more and only dealt with Jamal from time to time.
“Man, fuck all that. She needs to cover up. I don’t even want her over here with me like this, for real. Monte already tried to holla ‘cause she’s walking ‘round like she ain’t got no nigga.”
“Damn, you sound real insecure,” another voice interjected, reminding me that Shy was present. He slapped hands with Mal then asked, “You good, nigga? Pops said he been calling and can’t get in touch with you.”
“Because I blocked his ass. This is the one day I have off, and I ain’t getting asked to work. I'm trying to chill, get drunk, and find a lil’ slide to fuck on. Tell that nigga call me in the morning.”
Shy chuckled. “You know it’s money before hoes. Get yo head out these loose ass pussy holes, nigga.”
“Man, I ain’t ever fucking on no ran through bitch.”
“Facts,” Anthony cosigned, tugging me closer by the waist as Shy scoffed then gave me a once over.
“This you, Ant?”
“Yea, this my ole lady. E, this is Mal’s brother, Shy.”
My eyes liked to have bugged out my fucking head at that introduction. Shit, I was panicking enough at the fact that they were familiar with each other, but him and Mal being brothers was on a whole other level. Not only had I cheated, but I was fucking within the circle. Shy’s good dick having ass had made me a homie hopper.
“E? What that stand for? Ebony?” he questioned to fuck with me, and I grilled his ass.
“Yea,” Anthony responded dryly.
I could tell from the thin line his lips were forming that he wasn’t feeling Shy asking
about me. I wasn’t even surprised when he glared to me and reinforced, “You need to put your shorts on. Now.”
“Aight, damn.”
“What’s wrong with what she has on?” Shy quizzed as I removed my knapsack from my back. “You must be worried ‘bout another nigga snatching her up, huh? I mean, I can see why, so I ain’t mad at you,” he stated, wiping at his mouth to keep from grinning.
“That’s the least of my worries. Ebony ain’t going nowhere.”
My head jerked in Anthony’s direction as I pulled on my shorts. There was so fucking much I wanted to say in that moment, but I bit my goddamn tongue to keep from embarrassing his ass in public. The fact that he was so damn sure of his statement had me thirty-eight hot. It also showed me that he did whatever the fuck he wanted for a reason; he was convinced I was never going to leave. Just knowing I let it get to that point caused disappointment within myself, more than anything.
Shy chuckled before rebutting, “If you were really that confident, then you wouldn’t be pressed ‘bout a simple swimsuit. I hear you, though, playa.”
“Bro, stop yo shit.” Mal laughed with a shake of his head.
“He knows I'm just bullshitting.”
“I don’t give a fuck either way,” Anthony snipped with flared nostrils. “E, gon’ head back to the front. We’re leaving soon.”
“Why? We haven’t even been out here long.”
“This shit is wack. Ain’t shit to do, and I already lost my bills fucking with this dice game. Unless, you got some cash on you, and I'll cash app it back,” he suggested, pulling out his phone as I frowned.
He was lying through his damn teeth, and we both knew it. The nigga expected me to tell his ass that he was good on it and hand over my fucking money, but he had another thing coming. That was dumb to even join the dice game while knowing he was down to his last after paying his two funky ass bills.
“I don’t even have nothing on me, Ant. If you give me your card, I can run to the 7-11 across the street for you, though.”
“Or I can hit you off with something,” Shy offered, pulling out his wallet. “You can just cash app me. What you need?”
Anthony didn’t even look his way as he replied, “Nah, I'm straight. Give me ‘bout
fifteen minutes, E, and we’re out.”
“That’s fine.”
I shrugged before walking off, leaving his ass there pissed and broke. A smile spread across my face as I recalled his expression at Shy offering him money like a whole hoe. That shit was hilarious because he should have just asked straight up instead of pretending like he was going to give it back. I hated when he put on a show for niggas.
The front lot was even more crowded than before I left, so I pulled out my phone to hit Peaches and see where she was. She answered on the fourth ring, sounding out of breath as I sucked my teeth.
“What the fuck are you doing, Peaches?”
“Renny. He rolled through and snatched my ass up. I’m mad as hell I spent all that money on looking cute just to get the same dick. I could have worn my cheap shit for him.”
“Wow.” I laughed before asking, “Is he right there?”
“Mhm. We're ducked off in his car. I'll be back in a few minutes.”
“Okay. Hurry up, ‘cause I'm ‘bout to leave.”
“Why?” she whined.
“I took off my shorts and top. Ant had a fit ‘cause one of his boys was flirting.”
“Did you get his number?” she asked then laughed as if the idea was absurd. “Of course, you didn’t. Be there in five.”
She ended the call in my damn ear, and I slipped my phone into my pocket then headed toward the entrance where majority of the car cleaning was going on. As I was passing the automated car wash entry, a horn blew before I peeped Shy’s truck easing alongside me from my peripheral.
“Get in,
Mango
,” he commanded with a laugh as I folded my arms.
“I’m not getting in the car with you. Are you crazy or something? My nigga is here, and you already did the fucking most.”
“You haven’t seen me do the most. Believe that.”
I bit my lip with a shake of my head. “You’re unbelievable. Not to mention, you knew exactly who my nigga was, didn’t you?”
“Not when I first saw you. Had I known... I would have still run up in that pussy, just like I'm about to do now with his ass feet away. Get in.”
“I think not. You were a mistake, Shy. I was mad—”
“Because your nigga ain’t shit. Got it. My thing is this, though... he still ain’t shit. He ain’t gon’ be shit the next time we fuck after this either. You're wasting time ‘cause he’s going to come looking for you soon, especially when he sees my car is missing. This automated washer lasts for seven minutes,” he enlightened, his head tilting as he smirked cockily. “Come get your seven minutes in heaven, shorty. Stop pretending that you don’t want it again ‘cause I ain’t ‘bout to play along.”
My foot tapped against the ground at the speed of light as I mulled over his offer. Did I really want to become that woman? I was better than a fucking quickie at a car wash while my nigga was in close enough proximity to catch me in the act. Even so, I found my ass rounding his car to hop into the passenger side before anyone spotted us.
“Take those fucking shorts off,” he gritted, shifting into gear before rolling through the entryway.
I hurriedly did as he requested then tossed them, along with my bag, to his car floor. As soon as his wheels aligned with the track system and jerked forward, he snatched me into his lap.
“So, you were gon’ hide from me forever?” he asked lowly, yanking my bikini top down. He hummed as his hands cupped my breasts—his thumbs gently swiping over each nipple until they were hard enough to cut diamond. “I knew I'd run into yo ass again, though. You miss me?”
“Fuck no—hmm,” I moaned as he sucked a nipple into his mouth while using his other hand to release his dick.
He was already so damn hard that it sprang out and bounced wildly, tapping at my stomach as he slid a few fingers into my bottoms and between my swollen lips. His eyes darted to mine at the mess my pussy created well before I hopped in the car with him. She was popping shit at the mere sight of his fine ass.
“You were gon’ walk around like this and not let me get you right?” He moved my panties to the side then hovered my opening over his mushroomed head. “I shouldn’t even give it to your ass for being difficult.”
I smacked his hand out the way then took over—easing just the head in before I bounced a few times then slid down the length of him. We both moaned at the connection, and his hands shot to my hips as I wasted no time grinding my pussy on him while holding his shoulders securely. We didn’t have a lot of time, so I was going to make the shit
worthwhile.
Shy’s grillz tugged at his bottom lip sexily while he groped my ass, forcing me to move at the swift motion he preferred. His dick felt so fucking good—thick, rock hard, and rammed deep inside me. I could feel every throb, pulse, and jerk because his girth was stretching my walls in the best fucking way possible. I reached between us and swiped a few fingers across my clit hastily as I felt my peak heightening that fast.
“Listen to that shit.” He licked his lips at the constant smacking and stirring sounds my pussy made with each roll of my hips. “Got you wet as fuck, shorty. He get that pussy talking like this? He reach as deep as me in this gushy shit? He hitting that spot right or nah?” He goaded, placing a hard smack to my ass.
My lips tucked inward, refusing to allow the painful truth out as he chuckled in amusement. The baritone of his laughter made my walls clench, and I took that moment to lift up then drop down roughly a few times to milk his ass. His face grew serious as he traced my lips with this thumb before easing it into my mouth. I sucked his thick finger hungrily, as if it were his shaft coated in my cum, while he latched his warm mouth back onto my nipple.
His large hands groped each breast, pressing them together as he alternated feeding from both while I continued riding. My hand found a resting place on his knee so that I could buck on him faster—leaning backward as I worked my pussy in circles then back and forth while massaging his sac with my free hand.
“Shit. You know what you doing, shorty.”
“You like that?” My grinds increased as he slapped my ass then ran his fingers between my cheeks. At the same pace that I was bucking on his dick, his pointer finger began pressing and pumping at that hidden g-button like he was putting in a cheat code, and a bitch crashed. “Ahhh, shit!” I cried as a very fucking unforeseen orgasm knotted my stomach.
My heart slammed into my chest in succession with the pounding of my walls as juices poured from me freely. I couldn’t stop my thighs from quaking against his as I continued gyrating my hips, riding that euphoric wave for as long as I could.
“We got ‘bout two minutes, shorty. You beat me there, and I’m trying to meet you there. Make it happen.”
“I ain’t gon’ leave you hanging”
“Better fucking not,” he gritted, grabbing my throat with both hands before squeezing
firmly.
I never thought I'd be into that choking shit, but it had my pussy going crazy as I started bouncing on his dick from the tip to the muthafucking base. I held onto the headrest for balance, making sure I was able to stroke every single inch of his shaft with my sopping wet walls.
“Got damn, Ebony! Fuck this dick, then. Handle it just like that. Don't fucking stop,” he egged, scooting lower into the seat.
I gazed down in awe to watch as I took all his dick, only further turning us both on. I was bouncing on that shit like a pogo stick while making sure to slam down each time so that he was as deep as he could get. His hands and mouth were all over me—caressing my thighs, ass, and back while he sucked on my exposed skin between moans. I thought I had his ass since he bitched me the first time we had sex, but I was in for a rude awakening. His hips suddenly bucked upward, lifting me from my knees as he commenced to pile driving my pussy from below.
My mouth parted and body stilled momentarily as he assaulted my spot like he was trying to kill the cat.
“Oh fuck... Shy, shit, nigga! You gon make me... uhmm!” My body convulsed as I came at the same time that my pussy started spurting like a water hose—squirting onto his pelvic and lower stomach.
“Fuuuck,” he growled, gripping the back of my neck to force our mouths together.
Our kiss was heated and intense as hell, to the point I was on the verge of lapping that nigga thrice. His hips were still bucking underneath me, pumping hurriedly in and out my slippery hole. I could tell my pussy was beginning to mold for his dick—allowing him to hit that shit without as much resistance—and that was all bad.
“She’s fitting me just right, shorty. She’s open,” he noted with his brows dipping as he bit his lip.
His eyes locked on mine, sucking me in as we matched each other’s blows pound for pound. The claps of our skin clashing was music to my ears, urging me to glide on his big dick faster as he drilled my shit savagely. The pressure in my stomach was something serious but worth every damn minute as I watched his face contort into the sexiest frown.
“Am I getting you there, Shy? You ‘bout to cum for me?”
“All in this pussy, shorty.”
His teeth clenched tightly, causing his jaw to twitch as he slammed into me one final
time then pinned us together. His nails dug into my hips and head fell back as he released a groan from this throat that was deep, barbaric, and worthy of me not moving an inch as he started cumming inside me. I cupped his face then kissed him sensually, relishing the subtle jerks his dick made while emptying into my depths.
“You’re a muthafuckin problem,” he whispered against my mouth as I grinned. He placed kisses along my collarbone then breasts before warning, “We’re rolling out.”
Reality settled in the second he stated those words, and I quickly hopped from his lap. I was already adjusting my top and scooping my shorts from the floor before my ass hit the passenger seat. I tugged them on then tossed my knapsack onto my back as Shy casually stuffed his dick into his pants.
My scary ass slid down in the seat as he drove past where Ant was with Mal. I wanted to check if he was still there but was too afraid that I'd get spotted.
“Lock your number in my phone,” Shy ordered, gaining my attention as we rolled around the building.
“For what?”
“Because this ain’t a one night stand anymore. This is me ‘bout to take what the fuck I want. And before you start with that difficult bullshit, let me just say that you ain’t gotta give it to me, but I'm gon’ get it regardless.”
“Me or my number?”
“Both.” He tossed his phone into my lap. “Choice is yours on how we gon’ play this.”
“You don’t even know me, and I don’t know you either. The sex is good, and that’s what you want.”
“You’re right. That’s why I need your number to find out if there’s anything else that I want. I need to figure out if it’s worth the shit I'm ‘bout to do.”
“What are you about to do?”
“Take you from yo nigga.” He shot me a fleeting glance then smiled. “I’m gon’ enjoy every minute of it, too.”
“Let me out,” I demanded, sitting up just as he made it to where he’d picked me up. “I am so stupid for fucking you again. You're worse than Anthony.”
“You’re out your fucking mind if you believe that.”
“Am I, Shy? Having a good job and money doesn’t make you any fucking better. Do I look like some fucking toy to you? Something you can play with and hold over Ant’s head to
taunt him. I'm not a damn pawn! I'm sure you’d enjoy nothing more than getting under his skin for whatever reason, but I'm not going to be what you use to do it. Fuck you for being an asshole attached to perfectly good dick.”
I hopped out his car then slammed the door, storming toward the entrance so that I could give Peaches’ uncle the money I made. Whether Anthony was ready or not, I was gone because Shy had pushed my buttons—leaving me with an attitude and a wet ass.
“E!” I stalled at the door then spun as Peaches rushed over to me. “Girl, where the hell you been? Ant was just looking for you.”
“I fucked him,” I blurted.
“I mean, that is your nigga, so...”
“No, Shy. I fucked him that night after the club, and I just did it again. He's the brother of Ant’s friend, too. I'm a cheater and homie hopper. I'm going to hell.”
“I fucking knew it!” she screamed, dragging me through the door for privacy. “So, the dick wasn’t weak, then?”
“Peaches, I just fucked the man in a drive thru car wash, and
he managed to make me cum
twice
before it ended. Do I really have to answer that?”
“Wow.” She blinked her disbelief.
“Exactly. The worst part is that I can’t do the shit again. Not even because I don’t want to, but because he has some beef with Ant.”
“So, he’s fucking you to be petty,” she surmised, sucking her teeth. “Damnit! We were so close. I hate niggas.”
“Me, too, ‘cause I feel like shit now.”
“Nope, don’t do that. You might have fucked up, but Anthony has cheated plenty of times. That’s the problem with women, right there. Why the hell do you have to feel guilty for doing some shit that’s been done to you a million times? Something you’ve been understanding about and forgiven time and time again. Shit, I'd have fucked the friend, not the brother. You did him a favor, and clearly, they aren’t cool, so you’re good. Brush that shit off, E.”
“I guess you’re right, but—”
The door suddenly flung open, causing my mouth to clamp shut before I said too much. It was a good thing that I had, too, because Anthony came stalking inside but paused once he saw me.
“Where the fuck you been? I was looking for you.”
“I washed another car, and I was bringing the money inside before I left.”
“I checked over by where they’re washing cars, and I ain’t see you.”
“Well, that’s where I was.”
“Don’t play with me, E. No, you weren’t.”
“How the hell are you gon’ tell me?”
“Because I ain’t fucking see you!”
“Maybe you ain’t see her ‘cause she was cleaning the fucking bumper, nigga! She had to squat extra low,” Peaches covered. “Shit, maybe she was hitting the tires, or changing the fucking oil. I don’t know, but she was over there. If you didn’t have yo busted ass baby momma in yo face, you might could have seen better,” she was sure to add, and that shut him right the fuck up.
“E, let’s go before I curse yo friend the fuck out.”
“You ain’t gon’ do shit but get your feelings hurt and bitch on the ride home,” I replied, making Peaches burst into laughter. “Let’s save the argument, and you just hop in your ride to leave as soon as we get home. I really don’t give a fuck anymore.”
I bumped past him and peeled my bag from my back, searching for my keys so that I could get the hell on. As far as I was concerned, both those niggas could kiss my pretty, smooth, black ass. Anthony hadn’t even necessarily done shit, but he was going to get this wrath that I couldn’t take out on Shy’s ass. Oh, muthafuckin’ well.
OceanofPDF.com

Copyright © 2021 by Antoinette Sherell
All rights reserved.
No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic or mechanical means, including information storage and retrieval systems, without written permission from the author, except for the use of brief quotations in a book review.
OceanofPDF.com

I
’d never wanted to answer a female’s phone so fucking badly in my life.
I rested back on my couch with my thumb hovering over the green icon, watching as Anthony’s name flashed across the screen before fading to black. The shit started right up again after a few seconds, and I scrubbed my face while releasing a wry laugh. Shorty really had me bugging.
Ebony was so quick to hop out my ride earlier with her mad ass that she hadn’t noticed her cell slipped from her shorts pocket. I didn’t either since I had music blasting on the ride home, and my mind was also too lost on our conversation that she’d twisted the hell out of. It wasn’t until an hour or so ago that I heard vibrations underneath the passenger seat as I was about to grab something to eat. As soon as I found that shit, my appetite was gone because my mind went straight to plotting on a way to get her ass to my spot.
We needed to talk because I couldn’t have her ever categorizing me with her weak ass boyfriend. Whether I fucked with her again or not; I wanted her to see that I wasn’t
some lame, fuck nigga that used women. Especially not to piss a nigga off that I didn’t give a damn about. Any female that I'd been with knew where we stood and was never strung along. The only chick that was an exception to that was Ebony because she essentially called the fucking shots.
She was in the relationship, which made anything we did on her terms. I wasn’t feeling it in the slightest, but a nigga couldn’t do but so much without blowing up her spot. I wouldn’t take it that far unless I knew for certain that I was playing for keeps. Her pussy had a nigga thinking that was the case, but I couldn’t use that as my deciding factor. I knew the way I moved, and bitches never held my interest for long. Something was telling me that she’d become the exception to that as well, if only she’d stop with the fucking cat and mouse chase that she had us doing.
I was surprised that she even got in the car with me, especially while ole boy was right on the opposite side of the building. That shit made it all the better, though. I bet that was why her pussy was so wet—that spontaneous,
get caught in the act
fucking had her ass open and busting. I never had a chick cum that fast in a row with no effort on my part.
The thought had my dick growing semi-hard as I released a heavy breath of frustration. Shorty had my ass in a predicament I wasn’t used to. Me and
side nigga
didn’t mix too well, and not being able to hit her up while I was jonesing didn’t sit well with me or my dick. Mainly, because I knew she was laid up with the same muthafucka blowing up her line to get her cell back.
If that nigga called again, I was picking up. Fuck it.
Her phone began chiming seconds later as if he heard my threat. I let it ring a few times before answering then placed it on speaker. I kept quiet to see if he’d say anything but was surprised to hear Ebony’s snarky ass mouth instead.
“Whoever the hell this is, you better hope I don’t find you. Once I track my phone, your ass is grass.”
“Always trying to fight somebody, shorty,” I replied with a chuckle.
“Shy?”
“The one and only.”
“What the hell are you doing with my phone?”
“You were so ready to get out those shorts and get this dick that it must have fallen out your pocket.”
“Wow. I can’t believe my fucking luck,” she hissed, and I chuckled. “This isn’t a joke.”
“Who said that it was?”
“I can hear that cocky ass grin in your voice. I need my phone, Shy.”
“Come get it.”
“Can you meet me?”
“I cannot. You can slide past my crib, though.”
“Shy.”
“Ebony,” I rebutted, then sat up to prop my elbows onto my knees. “Where that nigga at?”
“He’s in the room getting dressed.”
“Aight. As soon as he leaves, come through,” I ordered, and she burst into laughter.
“Yea, right. I’m going to send Peaches and Renny to pick it up for me.”
“Don’t have that nigga waste his gas. I said you come get it. I ain’t handing the shit to nobody else.”
She groaned exaggeratively as I sat back with a smirk—a hand massaging my dick that was swelling at the mere sound of her fucking voice. I could picture those smoky, almond eyes rolling as she pursed her full lips. The recollection of her eyes doing that same roll as I rammed her pussy from the back while staring at her through the mirror, had my shaft expanding further. She needed to get her ass here, ASAP.
“Why are you making this difficult?” she asked.
“That’s all you. Ain’t yo nigga finna leave to hit the club? Don’t lie either ‘cause my brother already told me they were going. You might as well come fuck with me. Get out that lonely, cold ass bed and let me keep you warm.”
“I’m not about to do this with you, Shy. I already told you earlier that whatever this was, is done. I meant that.”
“I meant what the fuck I said, too. I plan to snatch yo ass up and I’m gon’ enjoy it. You just took my words all wrong, shorty. It’s not ‘cause I don’t like yo nigga, which I don’t. I’m gon’ take pleasure in that shit because I warned him. Before I ever met you, I told him that he’d lose his girl if he kept playing. I knew he didn’t deserve you. I knew you were gon’ get fed up with his shit, eventually. I just ain’t know that I’d end up the nigga whose dick you fell on once you reached that point. But shit, since I am, I’m ‘bout to play this shit accordingly. I
can be boyfriend number two ‘til you see that I’m the one. I doubt it’s gon’ take long.”
“I don’t need a boyfriend number two.”
“You sure about that? Maybe you should ask ya pussy, ‘cause I—”
“Just give my fucking phone, Shy!” she screamed, and I burst into laughter.
“That shit doesn’t move me, Ebony. Either bring your ass, or I may have to pull up on you instead.”
“You wouldn’t dare.”
“You want to find out?” I countered, and the line grew quiet.
“Fine. He's coming out the room, so I have to go.”
“How long you gon’ be?”
“I’ll get there when I get there. Bye!” she rushed out before ending the call.
Since she was on the way over, I changed out my clothes and into a pair of balling shorts with my crew socks and slides—on some chill shit. I had showered as soon as I got in since she squirted over my pants and stomach. That shit had me ready to kidnap her ass so that I could have her to myself. Shorty was fucking my head up, and I couldn’t recall being so pressed about a female before. Maybe, the fact that I couldn’t have her was making me want her ass more.
That alone should have been a warning sign to steer clear, but I knew I couldn’t as soon as I spotted her sexy ass. That bikini was reeling a nigga in even more than the dress she wore the night of our first encounter. Those pierced breasts were sitting just right, and the slight sheen on her exposed skin was making me want to lick her ass clean. Ebony had to know how fine she was.
I could bet money she had even more to offer, but that nigga was stunting her—from her personality to her cash flow. Muthafucka had the audacity to beg for money like a hoe, knowing he had no intentions of reimbursing her. She was lucky she told him no because I would have checked that bullshit right there. It was all good, though; I planned to force out of her every single thing she was repressing because of his ass.
I grabbed a beer from the fridge then took a seat on the couch to relax. I figured it would take Ebony a minute since she had to wait for ole boy to leave then find my crib from memory without calling. Her ass was watching hard enough that night and knew it was close to the club, so she’d make it to me, eventually.
A nigga was surprised, however, when I heard knocks at my door not even an hour
later. I hit pause on the movie I was watching then headed to answer. My forehead creased in agitation as I stared at Peaches through the peephole instead of Ebony.
“So, you’re the kind of chick that tries to fight random bitches in the club and pop up at nigga’s cribs uninvited? You just don’t care, huh?” I stated once I opened the door.
“When it involves my best friend, I sure don’t.”
“I told her hardheaded ass to come alone.”
“How, huh? How?” she fussed, poking my bare chest. “She didn’t have her phone nor your address. You expected her to wander the streets at night? Anything could’ve happened.”
“Man, you let Ebony finesse you, but I know better. She could’ve gotten here alone. How the fuck y’all get here now?” I interrogated, and she frowned slightly. “Exactly. I didn’t give her the address. It wasn’t fucking teamwork, ‘cause you weren’t paying my crib no mind, I’m sure. The only difference in you riding was an extra body, a cell, and a way for her to avoid me. That’s it, lil’ Scrappy.”
Her eyes narrowed before she assessed, “That bitch played me. I didn’t even register she was directing my ass because I was too pissed with you holding her phone hostage and making her come out. Plus! You’re fucking her to piss Ant off.”
“Fuck Ant and everything that nigga stands for. I already told her over the phone that she misunderstood me. I explained that shit, yo. Tell her to get out the fucking car. As a matter of fact…”
I stepped out and closed the door before stalking toward a nice ass Audi that was black with silver trimming and tint that made it hard to spot Ebony. I took a gander that her faking ass was in the passenger seat, and sure enough that was where she sat with wide eyes as I snatched the door open.
“Why the fuck you playing with me, shorty?” I snarled, and she folded her arms. “You must want some mad dick, ‘cause I can’t see any other reason for you to keep pushing back. Get out the car.”
“No. I just want my phone, so I can go.”
“Go and do what? Sit in the crib alone. You rather lay in the bed, playing with that pussy while thinking about me instead of having the real deal? Or better yet, you want to wait for a nigga that’s probably not gon’ show until the crack of dawn, huh? Or search your social media to find yet another thing that’ll piss you off. That’s when you gon’ run to me? Every time he fucks up. Just let me know what position I’m playing, shorty.
“Either way, you gon’ be here more than with him ‘cause when is he not fucking up? I get you don’t wanna be that girl, cheating and creeping on yo nigga, but you gotta be tired of getting slighted. I’m just trying to pick up the slack. I got dick that’ll wear yo ass out, money, and time to spare with no female drama fucking it up. How you gon’ act?”
“Bitch! If you don’t get out this fucking car!” Peaches yelled, making me chuckle as I kept eye contact with Ebony.
I could see she was conflicted, but my words had hit home for her ass, too. The point wasn’t to make her feel a way; I wanted to keep shit a buck with her and pull those blinders off. My brother had mentioned the situation with Anthony being caught on camera, and it made sense why she’d come in my crib on some
fuck me so I can forget about him
shit that night.
I just needed her ass to get to the point where she wanted me without him having to do a damn thing wrong because that was where I stood. Every time she was in my presence—even being mad or difficult—I wanted her more.
The tinge of hurt in her expression as our eyes bore into one another’s only intensified that urge. I had no idea where her mind was drifting at the moment, but I needed it on me. The same way she gained my full attention on sight, I wanted that exact fucking energy in return.
“This is my car,” she whispered, her eyes darting to Peaches who was ear hustling in front of the car. “How is she gon’ get home?”
“Let her take it. I'll drop you to her crib in the morning.”
“Morning?”
“That’s what the fuck I said. Let that nigga come home to an empty bed and see how that shit feels. Let him stress ‘bout you for once.”
“What do you have against Anthony? You really want to piss him off.”
“Shorty, listen, don’t get this shit misconstrued... everything I'm having you do is for my benefit. Pissing your nigga off is just a bonus. I’m good at reading a muthafucka, and he rubs me wrong. We'll just leave it at that, and this is the last time that we’re gon’ talk about him, too. When it’s us, he doesn’t exist. This is my time.”
“Got damn, E. You’re in over your head and don’t even know it,” Peaches stated with a laugh as she shot Ebony a sympathetic stare then headed for the driver’s side. She climbed in before telling her, “Let me know when you’re on the way in the morning. I had some bitches threaten to pull up on me, so you stayed the night to make sure I was good.”
“Wait, what?” Ebony turned to her in confusion.
“I forgot you’re new to this. That's the lie, hoe. We have to be on the same page ‘bout everything in case Anthony starts questioning you. I'm sure he’ll be calling my phone by morning. That's if his ass goes home.”
“Oh, right.” She nodded as I shook my head.
“So, females really do that shit, huh? Just out here lying to niggas like y’all with the girls.”
Peaches grinned. “Yep, and we learned from y’all niggas... we just do the shit better and know how to keep it under wraps. Now, get your ass out and live, E. Don’t give him a hard time.”
“I ain’t worried ‘bout that. I know exactly how to get through to her ass if she does,” I replied, shooting her a wink as I grabbed Ebony’s hand to usher her out the car.
I waited until Peaches was down the street before escorting Ebony into the house. I could tell she was still hesitant, but she’d loosen up once she got out of her head.
“So,” I started, locking the door before wrapping an arm around her waist from behind. “What you trying to do?”
“I guess whatever you had in mind since it seems like I don’t have a choice.”
I slipped a hand underneath her shirt, caressing her stomach before I placed a kiss to her collarbone.
“Aight, bet.”
“Oh, my God. This tastes so good,” Ebony praised, shaking her head as she took another bite of the grilled cheese that I whipped up for her with some homemade fries. “I mean, I've had a grill cheese sandwich before, but it tasted nothing like this fancy shit. What kind of cheese is this? And it’s some basil shit, tomatoes, and what else? Onions? I didn’t even know I liked onions.”
I laughed. “I can’t give you the secret, but trust, we ain’t get those until we were older. It was some shit my mom tried out that hit one night when I was high as fuck.”
“That’s who taught you to cook? Your mom.”
“Yep, among other things,” I replied, resting onto the couch comfortably as I watched her smash her sandwich.
My original intentions were to blow Ebony’s back out all night until the sun rose and then fuck her a few hours more. I knew that wasn’t what she needed, though. I couldn’t come at her on some selfish shit, so I decided to give her a moment to just breathe. No stress from her nigga, no hounding from me for pussy, or her having to lift a finger. I was simply vibing with her—giving her that peace she’d been missing for a minute.
We talked about everything under the sun and nothing at all, but I was enjoying having her in my space. She had decent conversation while debating my ass on certain things without getting upset. Not to mention, I just liked staring at her sexy ass. Ebony was good shit.
“Other things like what?” she inquired, popping a fry in her mouth.
“Shit, cooking, grocery shopping, cleaning, laundry. Basically, whatever a female could do for me, plus working hard so that I can take care of my lady whenever I decide to get one.”
“Your mom is smart. She wanted to make sure you didn’t settle for any chick just to be taken care of.”
“Fo’ sure. You finished with that?” I asked about the plate that was empty as hell.
She nodded, so I took it then quickly went into the kitchen to wash it out. I grabbed a bottle of water for her once I was done then returned to the living room where she was sprawled across the couch, looking comfortable as fuck.
I handed her the water then placed her feet into my lap. She moaned softly as I began massaging them while trying to figure out how her toes were so fucking pretty. I wasn’t a foot fetish kind of nigga, but I found myself sucking her white polished, big toe into my mouth.
“Shy!” she shot up quickly as hell, giggling like a little ass kid. “I’m ticklish.”
“Can’t even be freaky with yo ass.”
I shook my head with a chuckle and went back to massaging her feet as she gave me the most contagious fucking smile. It might’ve been the first one that I'd seen on her face
since meeting her, and I was anxious to see it more often.
“You’re fine as shit, but that smile is something different, shorty. You're gorgeous with that.”
“Thank you.” She blushed before pointing out, “You tell me that a lot.”
“I give compliments where they’re due. Tell me something personal about yourself. We talked about everything but you.”
“What do you want to know?”
“Give me the basics. I can figure everything else out as we go.”
Her head gave a slight tilt as if she were trying to figure me out before she laid back, closing her eyes.
“Hmm… there’s nothing really to tell. I’m twenty-three. I work as a manager at a department store and part-time at a call center. I’m an only child, and my parents are a mess,” she enlightened with a grin. “Love them to death, though.”
“How do they feel about your relationship?”
“Oh, they hate Ant.” She burst into laughter before divulging, “My dad even went as far as bribing me to leave him. I was so damn stubborn, though, and convinced they didn’t know shit about him.”
“And now?”
“Now… I think I’ve wasted a lot of damn time I can’t get back. I’m frustrated that I can’t make him do right by me. I’m sad because I really want us to work. I’m tired of knowing that I’m the only one putting in effort or trying. I’m just fed up, and even with all that being said, I don’t know if I’ll leave.”
My hands paused mid-massage as I stared at her, perplexed. She didn’t tell me shit I wasn’t aware of; I was just surprised she admitted it. I could give her the best dick of her life, but that wouldn’t make her leave if she wasn’t mentally ready to go. As confident as I was, that made me hesitant about pursuing her because I hadn’t caught feelings since I was a young nigga. I didn’t want to take it that far to end up left in the dust. I was playing with fire just as much as her, knowing at the end of the day that she belonged to someone else.
“What are you thinking?” she quizzed, tiredness evident in her voice.
“That I should stop with yo ass while I’m ahead.”
“Not Mr. Shy over there sounding worried.”
“Worried that I’m feeling you for more than what’s between your legs, yea. Worried you might keep settling for less, fo’ sure. Worried ‘bout yo nigga, never. My worries lie with you and your decisions where I’m concerned. You ain’t use to a nigga like me, so I know you ain’t gon’ handle me right. Then, that’s gon’ have me showing my ass.”
She smirked lazily. “What happened to playing your position?”
“I’m playing the one I’m best at, not the one you’re expecting.”
“Which is that?”
“You’ll see. Just know I ain’t ever second string or bench riding, shorty.”
“If you say so,” she murmured, yawning as she stretched then snuggled against the cushions. “If you didn’t, I wouldn’t be here right now.”
“You’re right. Smart ass mouth.”
I slapped her thigh, making her squeal before she rubbed there then nudged my side with her foot. Her thighs spread welcomingly as I positioned one of her legs behind my back, snatching her closer so that I could sit as close to her warmth as possible.
I knew she was about to fall asleep on me, so I started flicking through channels while kneading her thigh softly. It wasn’t long before her light snores caused me to grin. I couldn’t remember the last time I'd laid up, and especially without sex being involved beforehand. Shorty had me doing the most for her attention, and the worst thing about it was that I didn’t mind the shit one bit.
OceanofPDF.com

OceanofPDF.com